United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
24th plenary meeting
Thursday, 1 October 2015, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.24
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 6 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Omar Abdirashid Ali 
Sharmarke, Prime Minister of the Federal 
Republic of Somalia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the Federal Republic 
of Somalia.
Mr.  Omar  Abdirashid  Ali  Sharmarke,  Prime 
Minister of the Federal Republic of Somalia, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Omar  Abdirashid  Ali  Sharmarke, 
Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Somalia, and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Sharmarke  (Somalia):  I  would  first  like  to 
congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  election  to 
preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session. I would also like to express our appreciation to 
Mr. Sam Kutesa, President of the Assembly at its sixty-
ninth session, for his stewardship during the past year.
It  is  an  honour  and  a  privilege  to  address  this 
gathering today. On behalf of the people and Government 
of the Federal Republic of Somalia, I would like to offer 
our  warm  congratulations  to  the  Organization  on  the 
occasion of the seventieth anniversary of its foundation. 
Over the past seven decades, the principled goals of the 
United Nations — furthering peace, protecting security 
and ensuring the advancement of human rights — have 
become  unifying  pillars  for  our  global  community. 
Somalia  was  one  of  the  earliest  African  members  of 
the United Nations and has remained one for more than 
55  years.  We  have  watched  it  grow,  we  have  matured 
under  its  tutelage,  and  we  have  now  climbed  back 
from  a  difficult  phase  in  our  recent  history,  thankful 
for  the  support  and  backing  of  the  Members  of  the 
Organization.
Twenty-five  years  ago,  Somalia  experienced  its 
own Arab Spring, ahead of the current phenomenon that 
has swept through much of the Arab world in the past 
few years. We have seen what can happen if a society’s 
political  demands  are  not  adequately  addressed,  and 
we  have  had  to  learn  some  all  too  difficult  lessons 
throughout  two  challenging  decades.  That  is  why  it 
pains  us  greatly  to  see  our  fellow  Arab  and  Muslim 
countries going down a very similar difficult road. 
But  it  must  be  said  that,  thanks  to  perseverance 
and  togetherness,  Somalia  has  become  an  example 
of what can be accomplished in such times. We are a 
nation that intimately understands those famous words 
of  American  President  John  F.  Kennedy,  who  said: 
“Mankind must put an end to war, or war will put an end 
to mankind” (A/PV.1013, para. 40). The theme of this 
year’s session — peace, security and human rights — is 
in  line  with  my  Government’s  vision.  Indeed,  a  new 
Somalia is taking shape, and we intend to continue our 
climb out of the dark.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29876 (E)
*1529876*
A/70/PV.24 
01/10/2015
I want to talk about Somalia, but a Somalia different 
from the one many here may have heard of. I am not 
here  to  deny  our  notoriety,  the  result  of  a  conflict 
that  has  spanned  two  and  half  decades,  but  I  would 
like  to  introduce  another  reality.  Somalia  is  home  to 
a  proud  and  industrious  people.  Despite  adversity, 
we  have  become  athletes,  economists,  authors,  poets, 
musicians, entrepreneurs and innovators who lead the 
world. Even without a Government, our businesses kept 
functioning. We remain a major player in the regional 
livestock  trade  and  have  one  of  the  most  innovative 
telecommunications  sectors  in  Africa.  My  people  are 
ambitious  and  generous.  During  the  famine,  we  gave 
more than all the aid agencies combined.
trust, 
invaluable  networks 
We  have  built  banking  systems  based  on  social 
that  have 
capital  and 
attracted  a  range  of  investors.  We  are  survivors,  and, 
given  the  chance,  we  can  move  the  socioeconomic 
landscape of East Africa forward. Imagine the potential 
in the fact that we have one of the longest shorelines in 
the  world,  hosting  untapped  oil  and  gas  reserves.  We 
are actively rebuilding our country in order to realize 
that potential. We must be humble. Progress is slow, but 
we must remember where we have come from. The civil 
war destroyed our infrastructure and institutions, and 
took away some of our brightest minds. Now, however, 
they  are  coming  back,  and  together,  we  are  moving 
forward.  We  have  defeated  piracy,  we  are  embracing 
decentralization and, most importantly, we are learning 
lessons from our past.
The United Nations has been there with us during 
that  remarkable  journey,  and  we  are  grateful.  My 
Government  has  a  vision,  which  is  to  rebuild  State 
institutions.  Considerable  progress  has  been  made 
towards  our  Vision  2016  strategy.  Three  new  interim 
regional States have been formed. We are consulting our 
people on how best to hold free, democratic elections, 
and  we  have  established  constitutionally  mandated 
commissions to ensure accountability.
Allow  me  to  elaborate  on  a  few  critical  issues. 
First, we must ensure free and fair elections. For that 
to  succeed,  we  and  our  constituents  must  agree  on  a 
fair and transparent voting system and how that system 
can be extended to each region. Only through inclusion 
will we draw public support. I should recall here that 
Somalia  was  the  first  country  in  Africa  in  which  a 
democratically  elected  president  lost  an  election  and 
gracefully transferred power. That history must define 
our future.
We must also prioritize our national security forces. 
There is still an active insurgency that we are risking 
our lives to dismantle, for our own safety and for the 
security of our region. Last year, together with African 
Union forces, we liberated all our major regions from 
Al-Shabaab. But our soldiers are underpaid, underfed 
and  underequipped  and  yet  are  expected  to  put  their 
lives on the line for their country. That is unacceptable. 
We  must  invest  in  professionalizing  our  security  and 
police  forces.  Peacekeeping  missions  work  best  when 
they  have  clear  objectives  and  timelines,  both  for 
restoring  stability  and  for  building  the  capacity  of 
national security forces.
I  would  like  to  ask  everyone  here  to  join  me  in 
paying tribute to all those who have helped liberate us 
from violence, many of whom have made the ultimate 
sacrifice.  Our  women  —  mothers,  daughters  and 
sisters — also deserve limitless praise for enduring the 
worst of our brutal conflict. The survival instincts of 
the Somali people are most evident in its women. They 
raise  families  while  their  homes  are  being  bombed, 
walk miles without water in search of safety, and bury 
their children while continuing to work to feed the rest 
of their families. We know what war can do. And that 
is why I, as a father and a husband, will ensure that we 
will defeat terrorism. It is our duty as a Government.
Another  issue  of  great  importance  is  the  problem 
of  Somali  refugees  and  undocumented  migrants  still 
living in temporary camps, some for more than two and 
a half decades. We are grateful to the countries in the 
region that have helped and hosted our people, but we 
recognize  that  many  of  the  refugees  continue  to  live 
in  perpetual  crisis,  without  any  hope  of  resettlement, 
residency or citizenship. That is unacceptable. We urge 
our friends here in the Assembly to work with us to find 
a durable solution. The transition will not be easy, but 
millions of lives depend on it.
Ultimately,  we  must  enable  the  rebuilding  of 
State  institutions  and  infrastructure.  Effective  and 
transparent institutions are a prerequisite for providing 
services. Somalia lacks completely, or has in very short 
supply,  the  public  services  that  many  people  around 
the  world  take  for  granted.  For  the  past  two  and  half 
decades, public services, including schools, water and 
power, have been run by private companies. It is critical 
that all Somalis feel they have a stake and a role in the 
Government. The country’s residents have the right to 
demand services of us. If we fail to provide them, we 
risk falling short of their expectations. 
2/26 
15-29876
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.24
As  I  stand  here  today,  I  am  proposing  a  grand 
development plan for Somalia. It will focus on rebuilding 
our social and physical infrastructure — roads, schools, 
hospitals,  community  centres,  ports,  airports  and 
markets, all of which are essential if we are to revive 
the State and the economy. The plan, which is aligned 
to the new Sustainable Development Goals, will help to 
minimize duplication of effort and empower Somalis to 
keep building their own future.
The bulk of our population is under the age of 30. 
They are the future of our nation. It is from them that 
we  are  borrowing  today’s  resources  and  to  them  that 
peace  will  pay  its  ultimate  dividend.  We  must  find  a 
place for them in leadership, and we must create jobs 
and  opportunities  for  them.  They  need  the  kind  of 
opportunities and challenges that drive all young people 
around the world to try to succeed. We need to provide 
incentives for them, so that they have a choice and can 
leave extremism behind. That grand development plan 
for Somalia, akin to a Somali Marshall Plan, can create 
countless opportunities for our young people to invest 
in their own future.
Billions  in  taxpayers’  money  has  been  pumped 
into Somalia, and we have had some successes, but not 
enough. Non-governmental organizations have become 
a local business; some are effective, others are not. We 
need a different approach now. We do not want charity; 
we  want  direct  investment.  We  need  to  build  quality 
schools and fill them with quality educators. We need 
to pave roads, build markets and rejuvenate agricultural 
production  so  as  to  make  us  East  Africa’s  largest 
exporter of quality produce once again. Our New Deal 
is a useful aid framework, but we must translate it into 
results. And it is about time. Somalia’s development plan 
will ensure accountability and transparency for every 
investment made. Every United Nations Member State 
will have the opportunity to help Somalia evolve into 
an economic powerhouse and a future trading partner, 
and we will share the plan with all in due course.
We  are  grateful  to  the  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  for  supporting  us  over  the  past  two  and  half 
decades,  for  welcoming  our  people  as  their  own,  for 
turning a relatively small nomadic tribe from the Horn 
of Africa into a global workforce and for the time and 
resources that have been invested. We are humbled by 
their  generosity.  We  will  make  their  efforts  work  for 
our people, but we also need their continued support.
Mr.  Aliyev  (Azerbaijan),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
Only four years ago, radical insurgents controlled 
our country, oppressing our people and threatening their 
lives. But today, children are returning to the beaches 
of Mogadishu and other cities along the Indian Ocean; 
women sit on dunes selling home-baked bananas, and 
the sound of bullets has been replaced by the noise of 
construction. Look how far we have come, and imagine 
what we can do in another four years. We are looking 
forward not only to bouncing back for our own benefit, 
but also to becoming a shining example to nations that 
are in the throes of hardship, that are working hard to 
move from the third world to first, and that are finding 
it  hard  to  navigate  the  difficult  but  worthwhile  road 
to recovery. We are ready to play our part so that we 
can  give  back,  contribute  to  their  success  and  their 
fulfilment of their rightful destiny, and take our place 
among the contributing nations of our global village.
Somalia has failed my generation, but I will dedicate 
my life to ensuring that it does not fail the next. Yet I 
cannot  do  it  alone.  Only  together  can  we  become  the 
Somalia that the world is waiting for.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Somalia  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Omar  Abdirashid  Ali  Sharmarke,  Prime 
Minister of the Federal Republic of Somalia, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Hor Namhong, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of 
the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Mr.  Hor  (Cambodia):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to  warmly  congratulate  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  of 
Denmark  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its seventieth session. I am fully 
confident that under his able leadership our Assembly 
will produce results.
This  year’s  gathering  is  taking  place  at  a  critical 
juncture,  as  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary 
of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  an  opportunity  to  reflect 
on  how  our  world  body  can  deal  with  today’s  global 
challenges.  Cambodia  warmly  welcomes  the  adoption 
of the post-2015 development agenda in the form of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1),  an  ambitious  vision  for  building  an  inclusive 
society  through  sustainable  development  and  putting 
the  world  on  a  path  to  more  equitable  prosperity  for 
15-29876
3/26
A/70/PV.24 
01/10/2015
all  by  2030.  But  we  believe  that  the  lessons  learned 
from  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  will  be  key 
to ensuring success with the new Agenda. We sincerely 
hope that over the next 15 years, all stakeholders from 
developed  and  developing  countries  alike  will  join 
hands in pursuit of our vital new Agenda.
Poverty, food insecurity and similar problems still 
remain as stumbling blocks along the way ahead. Today, 
more than 800 million people are undernourished and 
living  below  the  poverty  line.  The  world’s  population 
will reach 9 billion by 2050, and the pressure on food 
security will be further exacerbated. I believe that the 
answers  to  that  challenge  include  good  governance, 
policy reform and more investment in food production. 
Such  challenges,  aggravated  by  armed  conflicts, 
have forced increasing numbers of people to flee their 
home countries. The refugee phenomenon, exploited by 
human traffickers, has now reached an alarming scale 
in Europe, though perhaps to a lesser degree in Asia. 
Cambodia  would  like  to  express  its  deep  sympathy 
for  the  recent  tragedies  that  have  afflicted  maritime 
migrants in Europe.
Climate change constitutes another serious global 
challenge. While it is the industrialized countries that 
have been the major emitters of greenhouse gases, it is 
the developing countries, which are largely dependent 
on  agriculture,  that  have  become  the  prime  victims 
of  climate  change,  with  storms,  typhoons  and  more 
frequent  floods  and  droughts,  which  have  a  major 
impact  on  their  food  security,  poverty  and  social 
welfare. Cambodia very much hopes, therefore, that the 
twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change, to be held in Paris in December, can produce 
a binding agreement, in accordance with the principle 
of common but differentiated responsibilities, that will 
enable  us  to  deal  effectively  with  the  global  threat  of 
climate change and its impact on people’s welfare.
For  its  part,  Cambodia  officially  launched  the 
Cambodia Climate Change Strategic Plan 2014-2023 in 
November 2013 as the first-ever comprehensive national 
strategic  plan  to  respond  to  climate  change  through 
adaptation,  mitigation  and  low-carbon  development. 
We also adopted the National Strategic Plan on Green 
Development  for  2013-2030.  Additionally,  Cambodia 
has  launched  its  National  Council  of  Green  Growth 
aimed at promoting a green economy.
On  international  issues,  Cambodia  notes  that 
criminal acts committed by the violent extremist group 
the Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham and many other 
groups under different names in Africa and Asia continue 
to intensify and spread, in spite of allied bombing and 
national-level  military  operations.  Cambodia  believes 
that all nations should forge concerted efforts to fight 
those criminal and inhuman groups in a comprehensive 
and effective manner.
the 
Cambodia  welcomes 
re-establishment  of 
diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States  after  52  years  of  an  unjust  embargo  against 
the  Cuban  people.  It  also  demands  that  all  blockades 
be lifted unconditionally, following the resumption of 
diplomatic relations.
Cambodia also welcomes the Joint Comprehensive 
Plan of Action on the nuclear programme between Iran 
and the P5 plus Germany. It shares the view that this 
agreement will not only become a turning point in Iran-
United  States  relations,  but  that  it  will  also  create  an 
atmosphere conducive to regional peace, security and 
political stability.
In 
the 
light  of  current 
realities,  Cambodia 
supports  the  United  Nations  reform  aimed  at  making 
the Organization more democratic and more effective 
in  coping  with  the  crucial  challenges  the  world  is 
facing.  To  that  end,  in  Cambodia’s  view,  the  General 
Assembly should be more empowered to enhance global 
governance in the United Nations system. At the same 
time, the Economic and Social Council has to follow up 
on the effective implementation of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development, adopted unanimously by our 
leaders  a  few  days  ago.  The  Security  Council  should 
also  become  more  democratic  and  representative  in 
both its permanent and its non-permanent membership 
so as to be able to assure universal peace and security 
in  the  face  of  the  evolving  dangerous  situation  that 
prevails in the world today.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Prakash  Man  Singh,  Deputy  Prime 
Minister of Nepal. 
Mr.  Singh  (Nepal):  I  bring  with  me  the  warm 
greetings  of  the  people  and  Government  of  Nepal 
and their best wishes for the success of the seventieth 
anniversary of the world body.
I  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mogens 
Lykketoft of Denmark on his unanimous election to the 
4/26 
15-29876
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.24
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the  seventieth 
session.  With  his  proven  experience  and  skill,  we 
are  confident  that  he  will  guide  our  deliberations  to 
a  fruitful  conclusion.  My  delegation  wishes  to  place 
on  record  its  sincere  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the 
Assembly  at  the  sixty-ninth  session,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  of  Uganda,  for  successfully  guiding 
the  business  of  the  preceding  session,  particularly 
in  the  run-up  to  the  United  Nations  Summit  for  the 
adoption of the post-2015 development agenda, which 
adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution  70/1)  last  week.  Our  tribute  is  also  due  to 
His  Excellency  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for 
his  outstanding  service  to  the  Organization  in  these 
challenging times. 
The  theme  of  the  session,  “The  United  Nations 
at  70:  the  road  ahead  for  peace,  security  and  human 
rights”, appropriately reflects our innate and collective 
desire for peace, security and human rights. These are 
the issues that continue to constitute the focus of our 
national priorities, regional initiatives and international 
engagement.
I  am  pleased  to  share  with  the  Assembly  that, 
rigorous  democratic 
after  about  eight  years  of 
exercise  conducted  in  an  inclusive,  transparent  and 
participatory manner, Nepal promulgated an inclusive 
democratic Constitution 10 days ago, on 20 September. 
The promulgation of the Constitution endorsed by over 
90  per  cent  of  the  601  members  of  the  Constituent 
Assembly  marks  the  logical  conclusion  of  the  peace 
process,  as  well  as  the  end  of  the  protracted  political 
transition  in  the  country.  It  has  institutionalized  the 
federal democratic republican system of governance in 
Nepal.
The Constitution exemplifies the victory of peace 
and non-violence, as inspired by the teachings of Lord 
Buddha.  It  reflects  the  best  of  democratic  principles, 
norms and values, as befits a country of vast diversity 
that  has  known  centuries  of  social  harmony  and 
tolerance.  The  Constitution  opens  up  new  avenues 
of  empowerment,  progress  and  well-being  for  all 
disadvantaged  groups, 
including  women,  Tharus, 
Madhesis, indigenous people, Muslims and dalits, with 
a resolve to create an egalitarian society by ending all 
discrimination. It guarantees 33-per-cent representation 
by  women  in  the  national  Parliament.  I  would  like  to 
take this opportunity to sincerely thank our neighbours, 
friends and well-wishers in the international community 
for their continued support and good wishes during the 
course of our historic political transformation.
Nepal  is  fully  committed  to  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
firmly  believe  that  the  United  Nations  at  70  remains 
a  strong  pillar  of  the  international  system,  as  well  as 
the  institution  of  hope  and  trust.  Both  the  continuing 
determination of the peoples and the means for attaining 
the ends envisaged at the time of its inception continue 
to be an inspiration. 
the  solid 
foundation  of 
The purposes and principles of the United Nations 
constitute 
international 
relations. However, a review of the past seven decades 
of  the  United  Nations  also  reveals  that  much  more 
remains  to  be  done  on  many  fronts,  despite  several 
far-reaching  achievements  to  its  credit.  The  United 
Nations continues to confront numerous challenges in 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
as well as in the effective employment of international 
machinery for the promotion of the economic and social 
advancement of all peoples.
We therefore feel that there is a need for a stronger 
United Nations that is capable of delivering results based 
on wider respect for and observance of the principles of 
sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence 
and  non-interference,  as  well  as  of  preserving  the 
universal  values  of  peace,  justice,  equality,  freedom 
and human dignity. 
The  reforms  of  the  United  Nations  are  needed  to 
strengthen and revitalize its work so that it may better 
respond  to  the  increasingly  complex  and  profound 
challenges.  The 
reforms  should  promote  good- 
neighbourly relations and should contribute to smarter 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  The 
reforms  should  encourage  stricter  adherence  to  the 
principles  and  purposes  of  the  Charter.  They  should 
serve to promote the economic and social advancement 
of all peoples and to enhance the dignity of the peoples 
in  a  just  international  order.  These  are  the  kind  of 
reforms we advocate, support and aspire to. The reforms 
should  encourage  those  who  can  do  so  to  contribute 
more to the cause of peace and progress. The reforms 
should  instil  hope  and  confidence  in  those  who  are 
marginalized and extend support to those who confront 
difficult circumstances.
Nepal has been consistently contributing to United 
Nations  peacekeeping  for  about  six  decades  now. 
15-29876
5/26
A/70/PV.24 
01/10/2015
More  than  120,000  of  our  peacekeepers  have  served 
so  far  with  outstanding  professionalism  in  more  than 
40  different  missions  around  the  globe,  and  70  have 
made the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty. As one 
of  the  leading  troop-contributing  countries,  Nepal 
remains  steadfast  in  its  commitment  to  maintaining 
international peace and security.
Loss  of  life  and  injury  incurred  in  the  line  of 
duty must be minimized. A strong sense of safety and 
security  enhances  the  confidence  and  efficiency  of 
the  peacekeepers.  Moreover,  leadership  opportunities 
should  be  made  available  to  the  member  countries 
commensurate  with  their  contributions.  This  would 
make  the  best  use  of  their  experience  and  would 
enhance efficiency and inspire commitment. Given its 
long-standing contribution and experience, both in the 
field and at Headquarters, Nepal has the ability to make 
a contribution in senior-level leadership positions in the 
United Nations peace architecture and is willing to do 
so.
Nepal  fully  aligns  itself  with  the  United  Nations 
and  the  international  community  in  dealing  with  all 
threats to peace and security. Terrorism is the biggest 
threat to peace, security and development. It is shocking 
to see the emergence of various terrorist groups, some 
of  which  espouse  violent  extremism  and  religious 
fundamentalism,  in  different  parts  of  the  globe.  We 
unequivocally condemn terrorism in all its forms and 
manifestations. As terrorism is a multifaceted problem, 
its  solution  demands  greater  unity,  solidarity  and  the 
concerted  collaboration  of  nations  to  address  its  root 
causes.  This  is  best  done  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United Nations, and we are in favour of concluding a 
comprehensive convention on international terrorism at 
an early date.
Nepal  stands  for 
the  general  and  complete 
disarmament  of  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and 
against  the  illicit  transfer  of  small  arms  and  light 
weapons.  It  wishes  to  see  the  world  without  weapons 
and would like all resources spent on armaments to be 
urgently  diverted  to  the  cause  of  development  in  the 
interests of meeting the pressing needs of the people.
We  consider  both  the  normalization  of  relations 
between  the  United  States  and  Cuba  and  the  nuclear 
deal with Iran to be important indications of forward-
looking  approaches  with  positive  implications  for 
international peace and security. 
in  1971, 
the 
Since 
their  categorization 
We  support  the  call  for  a  just,  lasting  and 
comprehensive peace in the Middle East and an end to 
the conflicts in the region. We recognize the legitimate 
right of the Palestinian people to an independent State 
based  on  United  Nations  resolutions.  We  recognize 
the right of every nation in the region to live in peace 
within secure and recognized international boundaries.
least 
developed  countries  (LDCs)  have  grown  in  number 
from 25 to 48. However, only four countries have so far 
been able to graduate from this status. The rest continue 
to  struggle  for  development  and  prosperity.  Their 
struggle has been unfairly long and has also been at the 
cost of the dignity of their people. An enhanced level 
of  partnership  and  collaboration  is  key  to  addressing 
the challenges they face. We welcome the Addis Ababa 
Action Agenda adopted in July. Its implementation will 
be critical for the success of the new Agenda. We look 
forward to a meaningful review of the implementation 
of the Istanbul Programme of Action in 2016.
Similarly,  there  is  a  strong  need  for  effective 
implementation  of  the  Vienna  Programme  of  Action 
to make a difference in the lives of about 450 million 
people  living  in  landlocked  developing  countries 
(LLDCs). The world needs to ensure unhindered access 
to  the  sea  by  the  LLDCs,  without  restriction  on  the 
free movement of people and goods. We stress that the 
freedom of transit of LLDCs should not be constrained 
under  any  circumstances  or  on  any  pretext,  and  that 
nothing should disrupt the flow of goods and services. 
The  freedom  of  transit  of  LLDCs  must  be  fully  and 
unconditionally adhered to by all transit countries.
As a country with many of the highest peaks in the 
world, as well as fragile mountain ecosystems, Nepal 
is  aware  of  the  hardships  faced  by  the  mountainous 
countries.  An  enhanced 
international 
collaboration is essential to conserve and promote the 
mountain ecosystems for the benefit of all.
level  of 
Climate change has emerged as one of the greatest 
development  challenges  confronting  us.  For  the  least 
developed  countries,  like  Nepal,  it  increases  the  cost 
of  development  and  also  causes  disproportionate 
impacts on them. There is an urgent need to translate 
commitments  into  concrete  actions  based  on  the 
accepted  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities, equity and respective capabilities. The 
achievement  of  a  binding  international  instrument  in 
Paris later this year is a must.
6/26 
15-29876
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.24
Human 
rights,  equality  and  human  dignity 
constitute  an  integral  part  of  the  United  Nations 
objectives.  We  believe  in  an  integrated  approach  to 
democracy,  development  and  human  rights,  and  we 
firmly hold the view that democracy is indispensable for 
development, as well as for the enjoyment of political, 
cultural and social rights and the right to development. 
We  underline  that  the  principles  of  universality, 
objectivity and non-selectivity must be strictly adhered 
to.  The  new  Constitution  promulgated  in  our  country 
guarantees  the  fundamental  rights  of  our  citizens.  Its 
ambitious  scope  has  broadened  the  rights  of  women, 
children, the elderly and differently abled persons and 
of marginalized communities.
We 
The  issue  of  refugees  is  intricately  linked  with 
peace, security and human rights and therefore must be 
addressed with the seriousness and priority it deserves. 
Migration  has  emerged  as  a  megatrend.  Migrant 
workers today represent a significant proportion of the 
mobile population. In view of the greater vulnerabilities 
of such people, due recognition and priority should be 
given to the protection of their rights and dignity.
in  Nepal  were  overwhelmed  by 
the 
unprecedented  scale  of  the  expression  of  solidarity 
and  cooperation  from  the  international  community 
in  the  aftermath  of  the  devastating  earthquakes  that 
struck  Nepal  in  April  and  May.  I  would  like  to  take 
this opportunity to express our sincere appreciation and 
gratitude  to  our  neighbours,  India  and  China,  fellow 
members of the South Asian Association for Regional 
Cooperation,  and  all  those  friends  and  well-wishers 
who so promptly extended their humanitarian support 
and expressed solidarity with us in difficult moments 
and made us feel that we were not alone. We consider 
the  global  outpouring  of  support  and  solidarity  to  be 
astonishing but significant evidence of the vast scope 
and potential of the spirit of the United Nations. Nepal 
looks to continued support and solidarity in the phase 
of rehabilitation and reconstruction. 
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development on the historic occasion of the seventieth 
anniversary of the founding of the United Nations has 
generated optimism for a better future across the world. 
To be truly transformative, the Sustainable Development 
Goals must embrace everyone and must be implemented 
in their entirety with the required resources. To this end, 
guaranteed  means  of  implementation,  encompassing 
finance, technology transfer, capacity and partnership, 
are critical. Many of the development issues that many 
countries  face,  particularly  the  most  vulnerable  ones, 
deserve more serious attention if we are to strengthen 
the cause of peace and security. 
We want the United Nations and the international 
community  to  turn  their  immediate  attention  to  the 
issues of growing inequality and dwindling resources 
and to the existential threat of global warming. Poverty 
remains a powerful threat to peace, security and human 
rights.  It  is  a  minefield,  compounding  the  woes  and 
sufferings of society. Let us not forget that it is the poor 
who  are  constantly  exposed  to  violence,  corruption, 
extortion and the malpractices of the powerful.
I  would  like  to  conclude  with  what  Bishweshwar 
Prasad  Koirala,  the  first  elected  Prime  Minister  of 
Nepal,  told  the  General  Assembly  at  the  fifteenth 
session, 
“As we look at the world, we find that the economic 
disparity  between  countries,  as  between  the  rich 
and the poor people within the nation, is the source 
of much friction and tension” (A/PV.878, para. 232).
Economic disparity continues to stare at us all, as it did 
then. Let us commit ourselves to creating a sustainable, 
equitable and inclusive development in larger freedom 
to address this problem.
I am confident that the spirit of the United Nations 
will continue to prevail for the benefit of humankind in 
the days to come.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  a  statement  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ri  Su  Yong, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea.
Mr. Ri Su Yong (Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea) (spoke in Korean; English text provided by the 
delegation):  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Mogens 
Lykketoft  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  this  historic  seventieth  session.  I  hope 
that his able stewardship will lead this session, under 
the  theme  “The  United  Nations  at  70:  the  road  ahead 
for peace, security and human rights”, to a successful 
outcome.
We are now at a critical point in time in which we 
are reflecting on the 70 years of the United Nations and 
defining the road ahead. 
First and foremost, it is important to learn lessons 
from both the successes and the failures of the United 
Nations  over  the  past  70  years.  It  is  fortunate  that 
15-29876
7/26
A/70/PV.24 
01/10/2015
humankind  has  evaded  a  third  world  war  during  this 
time. That should be considered a victory for the noble 
ideal of peace over war, which was an important source 
of  inspiration  leading  to  the  founding  of  the  United 
Nations.  Since  the  start  of  the  new  millennium,  the 
percentage  of  the  world  population  living  under  the 
poverty line has been reduced by half. This amounts to 
a triumph for the ideal of cooperation for development, 
which, along with peace, represents one of the two main 
pillars of the United Nations.
Yet the world has not been at peace over the past 70 
years, nor has humankind lived in comfort. The world 
has undergone hundreds of wars and armed conflicts, 
big and small, some of which drove us to the brink of a 
nuclear disaster. The peace sought by humankind is not 
fragile in nature, like a thin layer of ice, but rather it is 
as firm, durable and permanent as a rock. It is not the 
peace of a slave, requiring subservience to the master; 
it is a peace of dignity, a peace befitting an independent 
human  being.  Such  peace  remains  only  a  dream  for 
humankind.
taken  place.  However, 
The  world  has  come  a  long  way  and  tremendous 
changes  have 
the  United 
Nations  system  and  its  peacekeeping  and  security 
operations are not so very different from the old ones 
in  the  days  when  it  was  founded.  The  arbitrariness 
and  undemocratic  practices  of  the  Security  Council 
have  not  been  redressed.  Consequently,  the  United 
Nations,  a  hallowed  international  Organization,  is 
constantly  being  abused  and  monopolized  as  a  forum 
for  confrontation  by  a  few  Powers.  The  result  is  that 
world peace and security are under constant threat and 
humankind  has  grown  accustomed  to  having  to  live, 
against its will, with the smoky clouds of war overhead. 
This  is  the  biggest  failure  overshadowing  the  70-year 
history  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  the  greatest 
challenge we are facing on our road ahead.
Unless  the  sovereign  equality  enshrined  in  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  is  fully  translated  into 
reality, the ongoing practice of domination, inequality 
and  unfairness  cannot  be  eradicated  at  the  United 
Nations. Until international relations are democratized, 
the  United  Nations  will  not  be  able  to  fulfil  its 
mission to safeguard international peace and security. 
Furthermore,  the  United  Nations  will  be  degraded 
to  the  point  of  becoming  a  haven  in  which  the  forces 
bent  on  disrupting  and  destroying  peace  and  security 
camouflage  their  designs.  This  is  the  main  lesson  we 
have  learned  as  we  look  back  on  the  70  years  of  the 
United Nations.
Reflected on every page of the annals of the United 
Nations is the history of our national division, stained 
with  the  misfortunes  and  pains  that  our  people  have 
suffered over the past seven decades. The same year the 
United Nations was founded, our nation was liberated 
from Japanese colonial rule and divided into the north 
and  the  south  by  a  foreign  force.  The  same  foreign 
force now sits on the Security Council as a permanent 
member State.
For the past seven decades — from its inception to 
today — the United Nations has been used as a tool to 
violate the sovereignty, dignity, peace and security of 
our nation. It was none other than the United Nations 
Temporary  Commission  on  Korea  that  granted  so-
called  legitimacy  to  the  manoeuvres  of  the  United 
States,  which  had  brought  about  the  division  of  our 
nation  by  setting  up  a  separate  Government  in  South 
Korea  in  1948.  It  was  also  in  the  name  of  the  United 
Nations forces that the troops of the United States and 
15  other  satellite  countries  joined  the  Korean  War  in 
1950.
At  its  thirtieth  session,  in  1975,  the  General 
Assembly  adopted  resolution  3390  B  (XXX),  on  the 
subject of dissolving the United Nations Command and 
withdrawing  foreign  troops  from  South  Korea.  Like 
all  the  other  resolutions  that  the  United  States  voted 
against, this resolution also was not implemented.
At  present,  nearly  40,000  United  States  troops,  a 
massive  number,  are  stationed  in  South  Korea—more 
than  in  any  other  foreign  country.  The  Commander 
of the United States Forces Command in South Korea 
is  also  the  United  Nations  Commander  and  so  wears 
two  hats.  The  so-called  United  Nations  Commander 
commands  the  large-scale  nuclear  war  exercises  held 
several  times  a  year  by  the  United  States  of  America 
and South Korea and has done so during the past seven 
decades.
Even  in  the  twenty-first  century,  the  Security 
Council continues to commit arbitrary acts against the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  in  flagrant 
violation of justice and international law. Today, a body 
of international law exists that stipulates that the use of 
outer space is the sovereign right of every country. More 
than  10  countries  have  launched  satellites.  However, 
the  Security  Council  passed  a  resolution  prohibiting 
8/26 
15-29876
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.24
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea alone from 
launching  satellites.  Moreover,  nine  countries  have 
already  developed  and  conducted  over  2,000  nuclear 
tests in total. But again, the Security Council adopted 
resolutions  prohibiting 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea from conducting nuclear tests, which 
it did only three times.
In  2014,  the  United  States  launched  yet  another 
anti-Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  smear 
campaign  in  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council  on  the  basis  of  the  detailed  findings  of 
the  commission  of 
in 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  (see 
A/HRC/25/CRP.1),  a  report  that  relied  on  fabricated 
evidence, 
the  United 
Nations is still manipulated by the United States.
inquiry  on  human  rights 
thereby  demonstrating 
that 
Our  development  of  outer  space  technology  for 
peaceful  purposes  is  within  our  legitimate  rights  as 
a  sovereign  State.  Our  nuclear  testing  is  a  defensive 
measure to counter the hostile policy and nuclear threat 
of  the  United  State  of  America.  The  Government  of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is steadfast 
in its resolve to uphold its dignity and rights and will 
continue to do so robustly and persistently by using all 
the  defensive  measures  at  its  disposal  to  counter  the 
unjust  actions  aimed  at  thwarting  its  peaceful  launch 
of a satellite.
The Charter of the United Nations provides that the 
Security Council acts in accordance with the principles 
of  justice  and  international  law.  However,  the  United 
Nations is now in a state of chaos, and it is difficult to 
determine  whether  it  is  the  Charter  or  some  Security 
Council resolution that takes precedence. Moreover, the 
fact that the Security Council, which is endowed with 
greater responsibility and power than any other body of 
the Organization, has become so reckless and is made 
a mockery of by an individual Power is a twenty-first 
century tragedy.
Late  last  August,  the  situation  on  the  Korean 
peninsula moved once again towards the brink of war. 
In  this  case,  the  situation  was  triggered  by  a  minor 
incident,  whose  cause  remains  unknown.  However,  it 
is  apparent  that  such  incidents  occur  every  time  that 
a  large-scale  joint  military  exercise  conducted  by  the 
United States of America and South Korea reaches its 
zenith.
In  exercising  its  right  as  a  State  Member  of  the 
United  Nations,  a  right  enshrined  in  the  Charter,  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  brought  to 
the attention of the Security Council the matter of the 
aggressive  and  provocative  large-scale  joint  military 
exercises  of  the  United  States  of  America  and  South 
Korea.  We  requested  the  Council  to  place  the  matter 
on  its  agenda,  as  the  military  exercises  constitute  a 
serious  threat  to  international  peace  and  security. 
We  also  referred  the  August  incident  to  the  Security 
Council. However, every time the Security Council has 
remained silent on this issue.
What  measure  can  the  United  Nations  take  when 
the  so-called  United  Nations  Commander  himself 
commands  the  large-scale  war  exercises  that  create  a 
vicious  cycle  of  heightened  tension?  Other  extremely 
strange  phenomena  have  no  logical  explanation.  Over 
20  years  have  passed  since  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  joined  the  United  Nations.  But  in 
Panmunjom,  the  flags  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea and the United Nations are hoisted 
opposite each other. In other words, the United Nations 
is in a state of war against one of its Member States and 
their guns are levelled against each other.
that 
Successive  United  Nations  Secretaries-General 
the  United  Nations  Command 
have  stated 
mechanism  was  not  under  the  control  of  the  United 
Nations,  and  that  only  the  Security  Council  could 
decide to dismantle it. In the long term, that means that 
as  long  as  the  United  States  is  a  permanent  member 
of  the  Security  Council  with  the  right  of  veto,  the 
United Nations Command cannot be dismantled. That 
establishes  an  equation  in  which  the  United  Nations 
equals the United States of America, since the United 
Nations  force  on  the  Korean  peninsula  is  made  up  of 
United States troops.
The  United  Nations  should  uphold  the  original 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  and  address 
its  abnormal  relations  with  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, both in the interest of international 
peace and security and for the welfare and prosperity 
of  the  Korean  nation.  The  August  incident  clearly 
showed the fragility of the current peace on the Korean 
peninsula,  which  is  due  to  the  abnormal  relationship 
with the United Nations. A rational, in-depth analysis 
of that incident leads to the conclusion that the Korean 
Armistice  Agreement,  as  written,  can  no  longer 
maintain peace on the Korean peninsula. For the Korean 
Armistice Agreement has no provision regarding such 
aggressive  and  provocative  large-scale  war  exercises. 
Replacing  the  Korean  Armistice  Agreement  with  a 
15-29876
9/26
A/70/PV.24 
01/10/2015
peace  treaty  first  and  foremost  requires  the  United 
States of America to make a bold decision.
Although  currently  intra-Korean  relations  have 
been  defused  thanks  to  a  great  deal  of  effort,  the 
atmosphere  does  not  promise  to  be  as  durable  as  one 
would want. For the situation on the Korean peninsula 
is such that even a minor provocative act can aggravate 
tensions and freeze relations in an instant. 
Since  the  experience  of  the  August  incident  that 
made North-East Asia and the entire world watch with 
bated breath, it has been clear that replacing the Korean 
Armistice  Agreement  with  a  peace  treaty  without 
further  delay  is  crucial.  The  safeguarding  of  peace 
on  the  Korean  peninsula  requires  North  Korea  and 
South Korea to address certain issues. The Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  the  United  States  of 
America also have issues to address. 
The  Korean  Armistice  Agreement  was  signed 
in  1953  between  the  Korean  People’s  Army  and  the 
Chinese People’s Volunteer Army on one side and the 
so-called United Nations forces on the other. With all 
the  other  foreign  troops  withdrawn,  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  the  United  States  of 
America are the only two parties in charge of the armed 
forces  currently  deployed  on  the  Korean  peninsula. 
The United States of America has wartime operational 
control of the South Korean army and also administers 
the Korean Armistice Agreement. 
It is high time for the United States to step forward 
and  sign  a  peace  treaty.  The  Government  of  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is ready to hold 
a constructive dialogue to prevent war and conflicts on 
the  Korean  peninsula,  once  the  United  States  agrees 
to  replace  the  Korean  Armistice  Agreement  with  a 
peace treaty and refrains from making accusations of 
provocation in the mass media. If the United States of 
America displays courage in making a policy change, 
the security environment on the Korean peninsula will 
improve dramatically and the security concerns of the 
United States of America will eventually be addressed. 
That is the best option and the best solution we can offer 
in this forum as we look back over the past 70 years and 
look forward to the road ahead. 
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is 
strongly  convinced  that  a  peace  treaty  should  replace 
the  Korean  Armistice  Agreement  as  a  means  of 
ensuring  peace  and  security  on  the  Korean  peninsula 
and  of  redressing  the  abnormal  relations  between  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United 
Nations. We also believe that that would help the United 
Nations  to  remain  true  to  its  founding  ideals  and  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter.  For  its  part, 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea pledges to 
make sincere and energetic efforts to that end.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Raymond Tshibanda N’tungamulongo, Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Mr.  Tshibanda  N’tungamulongo  (Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  As  I 
address  the  Assembly  from  this  rostrum  on  behalf  of 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Kabila,  President  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  whom  I  have  the 
honour  and  privilege  of  representing,  I  should  like  at 
the  outset  to  join  earlier  speakers  in  congratulating 
Mr. Mogens Lykketoft on his election to the presidency 
of the General Assembly at its seventieth session. His 
experience  as  President  of  the  National  Assembly, 
Foreign  Minister  and  Finance  Minister  of  Denmark, 
as  well  as  his  skills  in  development  issues,  are  major 
assets for the success of his mandate. I would also like 
to commend his predecessor, Mr. Sam Kutesa, Foreign 
Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Uganda,  on  his  excellent 
work as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-
ninth session at a historic moment of our Organization. 
Lastly,  I  wish  to  pay  a  well-deserved  tribute  to 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his tireless efforts 
to defend and promote the purposes and principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations.
Seventy  years  after  its  creation,  the  objectives 
and  principles  of  our  universal  and  increasingly 
indispensable  Organization  are  more  relevant  than 
ever. Peace and development are indeed the perennial 
and  common  desires  of  all  peoples.  The  core  of  our 
collective  action  as  a  community  of  nations  will 
essentially and necessarily continue to be maintaining 
international  peace  and  security,  ensuring  justice, 
upholding human rights and promoting social progress 
and  better  standards  of  life  in  larger  freedom.  Those 
objectives of our Organization are complementary and 
reciprocal. 
Without  peace,  no  human  rights  can  endure, 
whether  civil  and  political  rights  or  economic,  social 
and cultural rights. The systematic denial or constant 
violation  of  such  rights  will  inevitably  lead  to  a 
breakdown of peace and social cohesion and to latent 
or  open  crises.  Likewise,  without  peace,  development 
10/26 
15-29876
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.24
is  hypothetical  and  the  satisfaction  of  the  vital  needs 
of  the  populations  is  problematic.  On  the  other  hand, 
underdevelopment and the poverty and insecurity that 
accompany  it  are  fertile  grounds  for  social  demands 
that often result in violence that is directly proportional 
to the perceived suffering. 
Moreover, in a perpetually changing world in which 
issues involving security, development and basic human 
rights know no frontiers, all our fates are interrelated. 
Solidarity of action and synergy of efforts are not mere 
options, but rather sine qua non conditions for survival 
and success.
The reform of our Organization, particularly reform 
of the Security Council, is another sine qua non condition 
for  our  collective  effectiveness.  Security  Council 
reform  must  mean  expanding  its  membership  and 
improving its collective representation, while ensuring 
that  the  continent  of  Africa,  so  far  marginalized,  is 
incorporated neither too slowly nor too fast. We cannot 
sacrifice justice and fairness for speed. The Democratic 
Republic of the Congo would also like to reaffirm its 
support for intergovernmental negotiations and would 
like  the  integrity  of  this  process  to  be  maintained.  It 
would  also  like  to  reaffirm  its  wholehearted  support 
for  the  Ezulwini  Consensus,  which  provides  the  only 
reasonable  basis  for  remedying  the  injustice  done  to 
Africa and settling the question of its representation. 
The Democratic Republic of the Congo believes that 
armed conflicts, civil wars and all the acts of cruelty 
and  destruction  committed  by  terrorist  groups,  which 
perpetuate  suffering  and  misery  and  create  profound 
tension  in  the  world,  must  be  condemned,  regardless 
of  the  perpetrators,  places,  goals  or  motivations. 
Today,  terrorism  is  one  of  the  most  serious  threats  to 
international peace and security. One of the priorities 
of our Organization must be to fight this scourge, and 
each of our States must support and participate in the 
global  counter-terrorism  strategy.  To  remain  passive 
against  the  rise  of  radicalism  and  extremism  in  their 
most barbaric and murderous forms would be no more 
nor  less  than  to  condone  the  dehumanization  of  the 
world.
The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  is  a 
peace-loving  country  whose  history  has  taught  it  the 
inestimable  value  of  peace.  It  is  working  tirelessly  to 
preserve peace and stability within its borders, in the 
Great Lakes region of Africa and in the world. To that 
end, on 28 February 2013 in Addis Ababa, it signed the 
first  Peace,  Security  and  Cooperation  Framework  for 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Region. 
It is resolved to keep all the commitments it made by 
this signature and we call on the other signatory States 
to do likewise.
It  is  also  in  that  context  that,  although  at  a 
prohibitively  high  cost,  given  our  country’s  limited 
resources,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  has 
been  leading  successful  operations  against  hostile 
forces and armed groups, which over the past 15 years 
have spread death and destruction in the eastern part of 
its territory. To that same end, it has also dispatched its 
own sons and daughters as soldiers and police officers 
to serve under the flag of the United Nations throughout 
the world. 
It  also  feels  challenged,  as  does  the  rest  of 
humankind,  by  the  current  migration  crisis,  which 
demonstrates — as if a demonstration were needed  — the 
precariousness of the human condition.  
While the efforts undertaken by others to overcome 
that crisis are welcome, it is important, necessary and 
urgent  to  attack  the  root  causes,  which  include  the 
denial  of  human  rights,  underdevelopment,  poverty, 
armed conflicts, and natural disasters, some of which 
have been caused by climate change. 
Moved  by  this  need,  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  participated  in  the  drafting  and  adoption 
of  the  new  post-2015  development  agenda  and  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (see  resolution  70/1). 
That agenda embodies every hope for the peoples of the 
world. Our collective duty is to do everything possible 
to make it a reality. Impelled by the same need to take 
action, the Democratic Republic of the Congo has been 
actively  involved  in  preparations  for  the  twenty-first 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
to be held in Paris in December, as well as in relevant 
international negotiations.
efficient, 
socially 
equitable 
We  are  all  striving  for  development  that  is 
economically 
and 
ecologically  sustainable.  The  realization  of  those 
aspirations  requires  action  and  firm  commitments 
from  all  of  us.  In  that  respect,  we  all  subscribed  to 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  However,  their 
full and complete implementation has been hampered 
by numerous issues that we need to resolve promptly, 
as  well  as  by  many  challenges  that  must  be  urgently 
15-29876
11/26
A/70/PV.24 
01/10/2015
addressed, especially those regarding the environment. 
In that respect, we can no longer hesitate.
Climate change is one of the major challenges that 
our  planet  faces  today.  Its  negative  impact  on  vital 
socioeconomic  sectors  such  as  agriculture  and  health 
is more apparent than ever. The same can be said of its 
effect on the availability of resources that are necessary 
to  life,  such  as  water.  It  is  urgent  that  we  conclude  a 
universal and legally binding agreement that holds the 
increase in global average temperature to below 2°C in 
relation to pre-industrial levels. Let us all demonstrate 
our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals, 
in  particular  to  the  targets  involving  environmental 
protection,  by  making  the  December  session  of  the 
Conference of the Parties our deadline.
contribution. 
It 
jeopardizing  our  development.  To 
In  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  we 
to  making  responsible  sacrifices 
are  committed 
without 
that 
end,  we  have  developed  and  submitted  an  intended 
nationally  determined 
includes 
both  mitigation  measures,  focusing  on  four  main 
priority  sectors  —  agriculture,  forests,  energy,  and 
transportation  —  and  adaptation  measures,  which  in 
addition to those four sectors also concern the protection 
of  the  coast.  All  of  that  will  result  in  a  17  per  cent 
rate  of  reduction  in  greenhouse  gas  emissions  —  the 
equivalent of 77 million tons of carbon dioxide — by 
2030. 
We  have  established  the  same  timetable  in  our 
country for a comprehensive and ambitious development 
programme  known  as  the  revolution  of  modernity.  In 
turn,  we  hope  that  the  international  community  will 
reward  our  efforts  accordingly  within  the  REDD+ 
process.
Having  given  our  position  on  some  of  today’s 
burning issues, I would now like to talk briefly about 
the situation in my country. Allow me to talk about the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo today, a country that 
has certainly seen difficult times and could have very 
well disappeared from the map, if it had not been for 
the United Nations support and, especially, had it not 
been  for  the  sacrifices  made  by  a  people  determined 
to  maintain,  against  all  odds,  the  sovereignty  of  the 
country and the integrity of its territory.
I would like to take the opportunity to acknowledge 
the  gestures  of  international  solidarity  that  we  have 
benefited  from  and  that  have  come  from  other  States 
Members  of  our  Organization,  in  particular  from 
the  contributors  of  troops  to  the  United  Nations 
Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo. I pay tribute to the heroism of 
our defence and security forces and of our population, 
who represent a mix of every age and background.
Owing  to  the  concerted  efforts  of  all  concerned, 
we  can  affirm,  without  fear  of  contradiction,  that 
despite the persistence of a few residual areas of unrest, 
which we are actively trying to quell, peace, security 
and  State  authority  have  been  restored  to  almost  the 
entirety  of  our  national  territory.  In  conjunction  with 
important  structural  reforms,  the  restoration  of  peace 
and security has fostered the resumption of large-scale 
economic  activities.  The  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo is today one of the fastest-growing economies of 
Africa, with an annual growth rate, from 2010 to 2014, 
consistently  higher  than  the  average  for  sub-Saharan 
Africa. In 2014, the growth rate stood at 9.5 per cent, 
the third fastest such rate in the world. For nearly three 
years, we have had an inflation rate of less than 1 per cent 
and a remarkable level of stability in the exchange rates 
of our national currency. Furthermore, governance and 
the  business  environment  have  continued  to  undergo 
such  significant  improvements  that  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  was  ranked  among  the  top  10 
reform-oriented  countries  in  the  “Doing  Business” 
classification of the World Bank in 2013.
However, we continue to face major challenges on 
the path ahead. We are well aware of that, because we 
know that we are a post-conflict country. Institutional 
stabilization  efforts,  security  planning  and 
the 
reconstruction  of  basic  infrastructure  must  and  will 
continue, with the aim of overcoming poverty, injustice 
and social inequalities.
The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  today 
is  a  large  building  site  and  abounds  in  business 
opportunities.  It  is  a  country  full  of  potential  and,  in 
order to fulfil that potential, is open to the possibility 
of  partnerships  of  every  type,  provided  that  they 
respect  its  sovereignty,  do  not  harm  its  vital  interests 
and  are  mutually  beneficial.  In  that  regard,  several 
sectors  of  commercial  activity  that  had  been  limited 
to the public sector have been opened to competition. 
Accordingly, new laws are either in the process of being 
adopted or have already been adopted to liberalize the 
electricity  and  insurance  sectors,  to  promote  public-
private  partnerships  in  the  fields  of  agriculture  and 
infrastructure  and  to  attract  and  retain  domestic  and 
foreign investors.
12/26 
15-29876
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.24
The obligation that now lies with the Government 
of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  with 
all  partners  truly  concerned  about  the  welfare  of  the 
Congolese people, is that of ensuring the consolidation 
of  all  those  achievements.  Maintaining  peace  and 
stability and making our democratic achievements and 
economic and social progress irreversible are therefore 
our  top  priorities.  That  is  why  we  attach  great  value 
to  the  process  of  decentralization  under  way,  which 
has  recently  been  accelerated  with  the  establishment 
of  provincial  assemblies  in  the  21  new  provinces  and 
the imminent arrival of provincial executives in those 
provinces.
Similarly,  and  in  accordance  with  the  electoral 
timetable  published  by 
the  Independent  National 
Electoral  Commission,  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
Congo is preparing its general election, the third after 
those of 2006 and 2011. This election, scheduled for the 
2015-2016 cycle, confirms a definitive break with the 
spiral of violence and instability that has characterized 
our  country  in  recent  decades  and  ushers  in  a  lasting 
era of democracy for the Congolese people.
the 
electoral  process, 
Despite the many financial and logistical constraints 
everything 
complicating 
necessary  for  the  holding  of  transparent  and  credible 
elections  in  a  peaceful  climate  has  been  put  in  place 
by  the  Independent  National  Electoral  Commission, 
with  the  support  of  the  Government  and  under  the 
direction of the Head of State. To this end, convinced 
that dialogue is a central principle of democracy and a 
powerful  factor  in  social  cohesion,  the  Head  of  State 
has held consultations since last May with all segments 
of Congolese society — political actors, civil society, 
religious and traditional authorities — with a view to 
supporting a national dialogue.
Finally,  after  the  defeat  of  the  Mouvement  du 
23  mars  and  the  surrender  of  several  rebel  groups, 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  wishes  to 
consolidate the new-found peace and return to normal 
life. Accordingly, while we remain sincerely grateful to 
the United Nations for its contribution to the restoration 
of that peace, we believe it is high time to reconsider 
the question of a United Nations presence on Congolese 
territory  and  to  think  about  a  gradual  but  major 
withdrawal  of  the  troops  of  the  Stabilization  Mission 
from the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Mr. Scappini Ricciardi (Paraguay), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
Our  country  expects  to  receive  the  Assembly’s 
support  for  this  responsible  and  legitimate  request  of 
a Member State, which it makes in full exercise of its 
sovereignty. It is a request that already has the support 
of  the  regional  economic  communities  to  which  we 
belong, the Southern African Development Community 
and  the  International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes 
Region, as well as the African Union. We fully expect 
that the ongoing strategic dialogue with the Secretary-
General and his experts will lead to a recommendation 
to the Security Council to this effect.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Erlan Abdyldayev, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Mr. Abdyldayev (Kyrgyzstan) (spoke in Russian): 
I  would  first  like  to  congratulate  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  on  his  election  as  President  of 
the General Assembly at its seventieth session and wish 
him every success in this high position of responsibility. 
At the same time, we would like to express our gratitude 
to the President of the General Assembly at its sixty-
ninth session, His Excellency Mr. Sam Kutesa, for his 
very fruitful leadership.
I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  States  Members 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Secretariat,  headed  by 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  on  the  occasion  of 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  Organization  and 
the  adoption  of  the  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  We  welcome  the  theme  of  this 
year’s  session,  “The  United  Nations  at  70:  the  road 
ahead  for  peace,  security  and  human  rights”,  which 
clearly and eloquently speaks for itself.
This year also marks the seventieth anniversary of 
the end of the Second World War, which was the most 
bloodthirsty  and  destructive  war  that  humankind  has 
ever experienced. We believe that the most important 
outcome of the war was, first and foremost, the defeat of 
the forces of fascism. The war also ended policies based 
on an inhuman ideology and attempts to overthrow the 
world  order.  This  victory  provided  an  opportunity  to 
affirm such values as the recognition of the freedom and 
equality of peoples and the universality of international 
law, which meant an end to a planet divided into great 
Powers, on the one hand, and the rest of the world, on 
the other. In this context, we consider that the United 
Nations has played a historic role as the international 
Organization  whose  membership  includes  almost  all 
15-29876
13/26
A/70/PV.24 
01/10/2015
the countries on the planet and to which any State can 
turn if it feels that its rights have been violated or its 
security challenged.
Today,  the  United  Nations  plays  a  clear  role  in 
improving the well-being of the citizens of the world. 
The Organization remains the only legitimate universal 
structure  in  the  field  of  multilateral  diplomacy  and 
intergovernmental cooperation. Kyrgyzstan recognizes 
the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  maintaining 
international peace and security, in addressing today’s 
challenges in the financial, economic, social, cultural, 
humanitarian and environmental spheres, in promoting 
and  protecting  human  rights,  and  in  strengthening 
friendly  relations  between  countries,  in  keeping  with 
the principles of international law.
We firmly advocate taking into account the various 
interests of all nations, in accordance with international 
law,  and  building  a  peaceful  world  order  based  on  a 
multilateral  approach.  We  believe  that  it  is  just  this 
type of development of international relations that the 
United Nations should promote.
Ironically, 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the 
end  of  the  Second  World  War  and  the  creation  of  the 
United Nations, which has become a symbol of unity, 
collaboration  and  cooperation,  coincides  with  a  very 
alarming  international  situation.  One  quarter  of  a 
century after the end of the cold war, the international 
community  is  once  again  facing  the  threat  of  a 
polarized world, brazen violations of fundamental rules 
of international law, the growth of armed conflict and 
other  negative  phenomena.  Instead  of  the  demolished 
Berlin Wall, we have new walls being built — those of 
sanctions, bans and trade barriers. 
Differences have increased among the members of 
the Security Council, which of course is not conducive 
to the maintenance of international peace and stability. 
We  are  in  fact  facing  a  situation  where  some  States 
prefer to act outside the Security Council. We consider 
such an approach counterproductive and not in keeping 
with the very purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations. It leads to increasing differences, 
a loss of trust and confidence, the destabilizing of the 
international situation and a new arms race.
During  the  recent  United  Nations  Sustainable 
Development  Summit,  each  of  us  took  note  of  the 
event’s  importance  and  took  upon  ourselves  the 
obligation to collectively ensure over the next 15 years 
that  humankind  will  develop  sustainably,  in  harmony 
with nature. Kyrgyzstan welcomes the adoption of the 
17 overarching Sustainable Development Goals and all 
of  their  related  targets.  We  will  make  every  effort  to 
fully implement them as best we can with our national 
capacities. We will also continue to work in a targeted 
way  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  that 
have not been entirely achieved yet.
At 
the 
time, 
achieving 
same 
issue  was  fully  and 
sustainable 
development  at  a  national  level  requires  solving 
the  issue  of  appropriate  and  adequate  international 
financing.  That 
intensively 
discussed by the least developed countries and donors 
at  the  third  International  Conference  on  Financing 
for  Development,  held  in  Addis  Ababa  in  mid-July. 
We agree with the view that developing States should 
take  greater  responsibilty  for  financing  their  national 
development programmes through the effective use of 
internal  resources,  including  by  improving  their  tax 
administration and, of course, by fighting corruption. 
However,  donor  countries  will  also  need  to  remain 
involved and should promptly fulfil their commitment 
to  increasing  their  official  development  assistance  to 
0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product.
At  the  same  time,  we  wish  to  underscore  the 
need  for  an  environment  conducive  to  the  successful 
sustainable development of States and the possibility of 
creating and maintaining such an environment. In the 
light  of  our  national  experience,  Kyrgyzstan  believes 
that every State has the right to development, which is 
an inherent, inalienable right that cannot be limited or 
constrained by anyone or anything. We are convinced 
that the issue of upholding that right is relevant for the 
majority of developing States throughout the world. It 
seems to us that it is especially important in the case 
of landlocked developing States, of small island States 
and  all  other  countries  that  are  especially  vulnerable 
in the face of climate change, and of heavily indebted 
States, which do not have the opportunity to eradicate 
poverty.
We  regret  to  note  the  increasing  number  of 
situations in which one State, guided only by its self-
interest, strives to further its own development at the 
expense  of  another  State  by  constraining  the  latter’s 
opportunities  for  development.  We  believe  that  such 
conduct has no place in today’s civilized world. At the 
same time, we note that the concept of a State’s right to 
development has not yet been incorporated into general 
international law. Of course, it is important to clarify 
that the right to development does exist and is part of 
14/26 
15-29876
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.24
international  law,  but  only  within  the  framework  of 
human rights. I refer first and foremost to the Charter 
of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights, among other documents. However, we 
believe that the relevant human rights cannot be fully 
implemented unless an analogous right is granted to the 
subject of international law itself..
We  believe  that  respect  for  and  guarantees  of  the 
right  of  every  State  to  development  should  in  time 
become  the  foundation  for  forging  new,  equitable 
international  relations  at  the  global  level  and  should 
take  their  place  alongside  such  other  principles  as 
respect 
integrity  and  sovereignty, 
rejection  of  the  use  of  force  and  non-intervention  in 
the internal affairs of other States. In that regard, my 
country  considers  it  important  for  the  concept  of  a 
State’s right to development to be widely disseminated 
throughout  the  United  Nations.  We  propose  that  the 
issue be considered at the expert level.
territorial 
for 
Successful 
sustainable  development  depends 
to  a  great  extent  on  the  maintenance  of  security  and 
stability at the global level. We believe that countries 
should  set  aside  their  differences  and  work  more 
actively together under the aegis of the United Nations 
to combat terrorism and violent extremism. Kyrgyzstan 
strongly condemns all acts of terrorism, irrespective of 
their  motivation  and  without  regard  to  where  and  by 
whom  they  are  committed.  Terrorism  has  root  causes 
and reasons, but they can never be justified. We would 
like  to  stress  that  the  international  community  needs 
to  work  together  more  effectively  to  combat  not  only 
extremism but also its violent manifestations.
Today we are seeing the nature of extremist threats 
morph and change. To a lesser degree, activities of this 
nature  have  already  spread  geographically.  Extremist 
ideology is seeping into the consciousness of people in 
various regions and around the world; it is mounting an 
attack  on  society  from  within.  Various  extremist  and 
terrorist organizations, after consolidating their power 
under the banner of a single ideology, are evolving into 
powerful  criminal  structures  with  a  wide  network  of 
like-minded people. 
We  believe  that  combating  extremism  should  not 
be  limited  to  addressing  violent  methods  but  that  it 
must also include the adoption of preventive measures 
to  curb  the  influence  of  harmful  ideologies.  In  the 
effort to combat extremism, it is also crucial for States 
to  develop  policies  that  protect  the  secular  character 
of  the  State  and  to  strengthen  their  interaction  with 
traditional  religions  by  implementing  their  citizens’ 
right to freedom of religion.
Speaking  of  counter-terrorism  activities  at  the 
national  level,  I  would  like  to  note  that  Kyrgyzstan 
has  faithfully  fulfilled  its  obligations  and  that  it  is 
committed to constructive engagement at the national, 
regional  and  international  levels  in  the  fight  against 
that  evil.  We  see  Security  Council  resolution  2178 
(2015) as a decisive step in combating foreign terrorist 
fighters. Within the framework of its implementation, 
we  have  focused  our  efforts  on  strengthening  border 
controls, aviation security and building the capacity of 
law enforcement agencies, as well as on improving the 
exchange of information. 
In  February  and  May,  our  courts  characterized 
the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, the Al-Nusra 
Front and other organizations as terrorist and extremist 
and banned their activities in Kyrgyzstan. On 24 July, 
a  law  was  adopted  that  establishes  accountability  for 
mercenary  activities  and  the  participation  of  citizens 
in armed conflicts or military actions on the territory 
of a foreign State. Our law enforcement agencies have 
been  active  in  the  fight  against  terrorism  and  violent 
extremism, and we are determined to continue the fight.
We  are  sincerely  interested  in  the  peaceful  and 
stable development of our brother country, Afghanistan. 
Exactly  one  year  ago,  we  witnessed  the  inauguration 
of President Ghani Ahmadzai and the formation of the 
Government of National Unity headed by Mr. Abdullah 
Abdullah,  which  marked  the  first  democratic  transfer 
of  power  in  the  history  of  Afghanistan.  We  consider 
it  important  to  set  the  Afghan  economy  on  a  path  of 
stable and sustainable development, which is crucial in 
the fight against terrorism and drug trafficking. We call 
upon the international community, particularly donors, 
to  fully  comply  with  their  commitments  to  provide 
assistance  to  Afghanistan.  For  its  part,  Kyrgyzstan  is 
ready  to  work  closely  with  Afghanistan  on  regional 
trade, energy and communication projects.
The current situation in the Middle East, a region 
torn by protracted conflicts and sectarian violence, is 
of particular concern, as thousands of innocent people, 
including  women  and  children,  are  being  killed.  We 
call on the countries of the region and the conflicting 
parties  to  start  direct  negotiations  under  the  aegis 
of  the  United  Nations,  in  order  to  reach  a  political 
solution  to  the  problem.  Without  strong  political  will 
15-29876
15/26
A/70/PV.24 
01/10/2015
and  determination,  it  will  be  impossible  to  stop  the 
bloodshed  and  to  pave  the  way  for  national  unity, 
reconciliation  and  reconstruction.  We  believe  that 
external  intervention  in  any  conflict  should  remain  a 
last resort and should be used only with the approval of 
the Security Council.
At the same time, we believe that special attention 
should be paid to the emergence of new challenges to 
world  civilization.  Those  new  challenges  differ  from 
the more traditional challenges of inter-State conflicts; 
rather they take the shape of ideological conflicts. Such 
challenges do not arise solely in situations of religious 
extremism;  they  also  appear  in  numerous  situations 
in  which  one  State  attempts  to  impose  its  vision  of 
development on other States. In that context, a principled 
assessment  of  such  practices  is  essential,  regardless 
of  the  source  of  the  ideology.  We  believe  that  the 
permanent members of the Security Council — which, 
as  the  victorious  Powers  of  the  Second  World  War, 
took responsibility for the fate of the world — should 
now likewise assume the responsibility to combat such 
practices,  which  undermine  the  very  basis  on  which 
development of inter-State relations rests.
It has been 70 years since the first use of a nuclear 
weapon occurred, and 45 years since the date of entry 
into  force  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons.  Yes,  humankind  has  managed  to 
prevent  a  recurrence  of  the  use  of  nuclear  weapons. 
However, as long as nuclear weapons exist, the risk of 
their  intentional  or  even  their  unintentional  use  will 
remain.  We  regret  to  note  that  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty has not yet entered into force, 
and that the 2015 Review Conference of the Parties to 
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons 
ended  without  the  adoption  of  the  most  important 
outcome document.
In  such  circumstances,  the  Treaty  on  a  Nuclear-
Weapon-Free  Zone 
in  Central  Asia  represents  a 
significant contribution to the global process of nuclear 
disarmament. As the depositary and the coordinator of 
the States parties to the Treaty, Kyrgyzstan expresses its 
appreciation to the Russian Federation, China, France 
and Great Britain for their ratification of the protocol 
on  negative  security  assurances  and  urges  the  United 
States to ratify that instrument without further delay. 
We  have 
the  successful 
completion  of  the  long-running  negotiations  between 
Iran  and  the  group  of  six  countries  as  well  as  the 
recently  witnessed 
adoption of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action on 
the Iranian nuclear programme. I wish to congratulate 
the  group  and  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  on  the 
occasion of this historic event. 
As  a  member  of  the  newest  nuclear-weapon-free 
zone,  Kyrgyzstan  urges  the  countries  of  the  Middle 
East  to  establish  in  the  region  a  zone  free  of  nuclear 
weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction and 
their delivery systems. This would serve as a milestone 
in the field of disarmament, thereby promoting peace in 
the Middle East.
One of the most important instruments in terms of 
sustainable  development  is  upholding  the  security  of 
the  State.  Here  we  deem  crucial  the  strengthening  of 
the entire spectrum of cooperation with our neighbours. 
Inclusive dialogue and cooperation, in our view, are the 
only ways to resolve the problems in our region.
On the other hand, it must be noted that not all of 
the existing problems in the region of Central Asia can 
be  successfully  and  rapidly  resolved.  We  refer  here 
primarily  to  the  development  of  trade  and  economic 
relations on an equitable, fair and mutually beneficial 
basis.
to 
Issues 
Efforts remain insufficient in the areas of resolving 
border issues, coordinating efforts to promote regional 
security, liberalizing trade rules, harmonizing national 
legislation  and  ensuring  safe  transit  over  inter-State 
roads and railway lines. The coordination of approaches 
to  developing  the  energy  and  transportation  sectors 
remains insufficient.
related 
the  shared  use  of  water 
resources are also a focus of Central Asian inter-State 
relations. In this regard, it should be noted that in the 
implementation  of  the  national  development  course  it 
has  chosen,  Kyrgyzstan  intends  to  focus  in  particular 
on the development of our hydropower potential as the 
basis  for  the  sustainable  development  of  our  country. 
Our principled position is that our water resources and 
our energy potential are closely linked. So to achieve 
its  right  to  development,  Kyrgyzstan  has  been  using 
its  water  resources  to  achieve  sustained  social  and 
economic  development,  including  on  the  basis  of  the 
model of the green economy.
No  less  important  at  the  regional  level  is  the 
fact that a number of border issues have not yet been 
settled,  although  their  successful  resolution  is  clearly 
in keeping with the interests of all States in the region. 
16/26 
15-29876
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.24
This will increase transit trade potential and promote 
the development of border infrastructure in our country, 
which  would  improve  the  economy  and  help  reduce 
social tension in the region.
Against 
that 
that  backdrop,  we  believe 
the 
development of a comprehensive regional cooperation 
framework  would  be 
to  ensuring 
sustainable development, stability and security for the 
whole of the Central Asian region.
fundamental 
The  absence  of  a  direct  multilateral  political 
dialogue among the Central Asian countries themselves 
exacerbates  regional  problems  and  constrains  the 
economic development of our countries. Unfortunately, 
however,  we  are  forced  to  note  that  the  common 
problems we face do not mean that our countries form 
a  united  front  when  addressing  these  problems  in 
international forums.
We believe that the time has come to create a broad 
platform  for  dialogue  among  all  five  Central  Asian 
States.  It  is  vital  to  create  such  a  new,  high-quality 
mechanism  within  the  framework  of  which  we  could 
discuss issues related to trade, economy, borders, energy, 
water  use,  transport  interfaces,  the  environment  and 
climate change. We call on our neighbours to consider 
our initiative. Kyrgyzstan, in turn, stands ready to start 
discussing the details of such a new regional platform.
In  the  political  Declaration  of  the  United  Nations 
Sustainable Development Summit (see resolution 70/1), 
we agreed to strengthen democracy, good governance, 
the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for  human  rights,  as  well 
as  to  ensure  economic  growth,  all  of  which  make  a 
positive  contribution  to  sustainable  development.  We 
fully  agree  with  this  concept  and  intend  to  make  a 
worthy contribution to international efforts to that end. 
However, it should be pointed out that Kyrgyzstan has its 
own historical policy on and path towards democracy; 
it is fundamental to our national identity. For centuries, 
democratic values have formed the basis of our society; 
they are not foreign, abstract ideas. Kyrgyzstan, based 
on its own historical and cultural experience, has been 
consistently  developing  and  strengthening  its  model 
for  national  governance  based  on  the  principles  of 
parliamentary democracy.
Kyrgyzstan will soon hold parliamentary elections, 
which  will  serve  as  an  indicator  of  the  country’s 
level  of  democratic  development.  Their  outcome  will 
strengthen the principles of openness and togetherness 
of our people. The elections will be held on the basis 
of the democratic principles of openness and fairness, 
in  accordance  with  national 
legislation  and  our 
international obligations.
In August of this year, a historic event took place 
when  Kyrgyzstan  became  a  full-fledged  member 
of  the  Eurasian  Economic  Union.  That  membership 
provides  Kyrgyzstan  with  unrestricted  access  to  a 
regional  market  for  goods  and  services,  capital  and 
labour  and  with  a  further  opportunity  to  develop  our 
agriculture and industry, as well as our transport and 
transit potential. Participation therein will also enhance 
the  competitiveness  of  our  national  economy  and  its 
integration into the world economy.
At the same time, as a result of our recent positive 
accomplishments,  in  2014  the  World  Bank  moved 
Kyrgyzstan  from  the  category  of  poorest  countries  to 
that of middle-income countries. In order to maintain 
sustainable  economic  growth  in  Kyrgyzstan,  2015 
was declared the “Year of Strengthening the National 
Economy”.
I would also like to note that we in Kyrgyzstan are 
waging an uncompromising fight against corruption. In 
2014,  Kyrgyzstan  improved  its  status  in  international 
community rankings on corruption, moving from 150th 
to 136th place. We are determined to continue to work 
in  this  direction  in  accordance  with  the  international 
campaign to strengthen good governance.
The protection of human rights is one of the main 
priorities of our State policy. My country seeks to fulfil 
all of the obligations it has undertaken under the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights  and  other  international  human  rights 
treaties and agreements. Today in Kyrgyzstan there is 
freedom  of  the  press,  and  civil  society  is  developing 
actively.  We  have  also  strengthened 
inter-ethnic 
relations.
Kyrgyzstan  has  put  forward  its  candidacy  for 
election  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the  period 
2016-2018. Here I would once again request the States 
Members of the United Nations to back our candidacy 
in the elections, to be held in October this year.
By way of conclusion, I wish to revisit the topic of 
the creation of the United Nations 70 years ago, which 
infused us with a sense of confidence in the future and 
has  become  the  embodiment  of  the  best  of  universal 
ideals  and  a  champion  of  the  interests  of  peoples  of 
the world. In the 70 years of its existence, the United 
15-29876
17/26
A/70/PV.24 
01/10/2015
Nations has firmly established itself as an effective and 
universally recognized centre for international security 
and responsibility.
for 
conflict  prevention, 
The  achievements  of  the  United  Nations  include 
mechanisms 
impartial 
mediation, peacekeeping and peacebuilding. The United 
Nations  has  also  become  one  of  the  most  important 
tools  for  resolving  socioeconomic,  financial,  cultural, 
humanitarian  and  other  problems  at  the  international 
level.  Its  specialized  agencies,  funds,  programmes 
and  structures  are  highly  relevant  and  much  needed 
and often function as effective partners for developing 
countries.
Today humankind is experiencing a very difficult 
time its development, and the United Nations is being 
tested  in  terms  of  its  ability  to  promote  the  modern 
world order. In this situation, we must pool the efforts 
of the Member States in addressing global challenges 
and  threats  to  international  security  and  sustainable 
development. At the forefront of this campaign should 
be a reformed United Nations, one that enjoys political 
and financial support from its Member States. In this 
respect, I encourage all to support and strengthen our 
Organization.
Kyrgyzstan,  for  its  part,  will  always  cooperate 
actively  and  responsibly  with  the  United  Nations  to 
support  its  activities  to  find  joint  solutions  to  global 
problems.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Frederick  A.  Mitchell, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Immigration  of  the 
Commonwealth of the Bahamas.
Mr. Mitchell (Bahamas): I bring you, Sir, and the 
Assembly  warm  fraternal  and  sisterly  greetings  from 
the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, the country which 
one of our most famous sons, the Reverend Dr. Myles 
Munroe,  now  sadly  deceased,  described  as  the  place 
where God resides. 
I  would  like  to  pause  just  for  a  few  minutes  to 
acknowledge  the  expressions  of  concern  that  have 
come  from  across  the  world  about  the  fact  that  there 
is  a  hurricane  sitting  over  the  southern  part  of  the 
Bahamas.  There  has  been  considerable  flooding.  We 
have not heard of any loss of life. There is likely to be 
some property damage. I suppose that by morning we 
will know the true impact of the hurricane. I would like 
to thank the Assembly for its expressions of concern.
We return this year, on the seventieth anniversary of 
the Organization, to reaffirm the values we committed 
to  in  1973  when  we  subscribed  to  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations — from democracy, the rule of law, the 
protection of the weak and vulnerable to the elimination 
of all forms of discrimination. Each year at this time we 
join the struggle anew to fight to uphold those values. 
Tonight,  I  pause  to  reflect  on  the  progress  we  have 
made in some areas. 
This  year,  for  example,  marks  the  thirtieth  year 
since the Nassau Accord was agreed and signed by the 
Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations 
in  our  capital  city,  in  October  1985.  That  Accord  led 
to  a  comprehensive  set  of  sanctions  on  the  apartheid 
regime of South Africa and helped free Nelson Mandela 
and establish full democracy in the Republic of South 
Africa. 
As  we  look  back,  despite  the  world’s  troubles, 
we can repeat the words of the old African American 
preacher: “I know we ain’t what we want to be, but thank 
God we ain’t what we was.” I also repeat the concerns 
that I raised last year: the environment, climate change, 
crime and security, the economy and the development 
of our young people (see A/69/PV.20). 
I  want  to  turn  to  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals. Our Prime Minister, the Right Honourable Perry 
Christie, was among the world leaders who last week 
unanimously adopted the ambitious, transformative and 
universal  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1),  which  will  chart  our  way  forward 
for  the  next  15  years  and  solidify  and  reaffirm  our 
commitment  to  the  pillars  of  the  Organization  and  to 
environmental protection. 
With  respect  to  crime  and  security,  I  recall  the 
words  of  a  former  Prime  Minister  of  Jamaica,  the 
late  Michael  Manley,  who  often  spoke  of  a  symbiotic 
relationship  between  the  developed  world  and  the 
Caribbean  region.  He  said  that  each  year,  millions  of 
people from the developed world travelled to our region 
to have a peaceful, quiet and salubrious vacation. That, 
he argued, was a benefit to them. The Caribbean region, 
including  the  Bahamas,  provides  a  tourist  experience 
that  is  unparalleled  in  the  world.  However,  the  world 
must pay attention to the underlying development issues 
that  the  region  faces,  lest  that  benefit  be  threatened. 
For  example,  we  must  stop  the  escalating  crime  and 
violence from drug trafficking, human trafficking and 
smuggling  and  juvenile  gangs.  That  is  why  we  have 
18/26 
15-29876
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.24
been so strong in our support of the small arms trade 
treaty. The carnage of our young people, which is due 
in particular to the fact that guns are easily available to 
young males,, is not acceptable and is unsustainable. 
The  Bahamas  was  pleased  to  have  participated 
actively in the First Conference of States Parties to the 
Arms Trade Treaty (ATT), held in Mexico in August. 
While we are disappointed that the ATT secretariat will 
not  be  located  in  our  region,  in  our  sister  Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM)  country  of  Trinidad  and 
Tobago,  we,  nevertheless,  are  committed  to  the  full 
and  effective  implementation  of  that  Treaty.  We  call 
on the producers of these weapons to do more to stop 
their illegal export to our region and end the carnage. 
As Mr. Manley rightly pointed out many years ago, the 
developed world will not be immune if the matter is not 
brought under control.
With regard to development and reform, there can 
be  no  economic  and  social  development  unless  we 
achieve gender equality and empower women and girls. 
The  Bahamas  is  committed  to  this  achievement  and 
empowerment and has actively participated in various 
meetings  on  gender  equality  and  the  advancement  of 
women,  regionally  and  here  at  the  United  Nations. 
We  were  represented  on  27  September  at  the  Global 
Leaders  Meeting  on  Gender  Equality  and  Women’s 
Empowerment by our Minister for Gender Affairs, the 
Honourable  Melanie  Griffin.  The  Bahamas  is  proud 
to  have  now  ratified  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of 
Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocols to 
the Convention of the Rights of the Child. These acts, 
in our view, enhance our commitment to human rights. 
Scales  of  assessment  for  peacekeeping  are  being 
reviewed.  The  Bahamas  attaches  great  importance  to 
the  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  as  these, 
in  part,  underpin  the  purposes  of  the  United  Nations. 
It  remains  fully  committed  to  meeting  its  financial 
obligations  to  the  Organization  in  a  full  and  timely 
manner  and  without  any  conditions.  The  Bahamas  is, 
however,  of  the  view  that  those  scales  of  assessment 
should take into consideration the unique circumstances 
of  small  island  developing  States,  particularly  those 
that  are  most  vulnerable.  It  also  maintains  that  gross 
domestic product and gross national income per capita, 
should not serve as the main component in determining 
the  levels  of  assessment  for  peacekeeping  operations 
and, furthermore, that no developing country should be 
categorized above level C.
I would now like to address the issues of human rights, 
the human rights aspects of national development and the 
fact that we are presenting our candidature for election 
to  the  Human  Rights  Council.  With  the  same  critical 
sense of direction, commitment and urgency expressed 
earlier with regard to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  and  reform  within  the  Organization, 
the  Bahamas  is  actively  crafting,  with  a  critical 
eye,  a  25-year  citizen-driven  national  development 
plan  —  Vision  2040.  The  national  development 
plan  will  provide  a  comprehensive  overview  of  the 
economy,  set  policy  direction  for  economic  growth 
and  identify  strategies,  programmes  and  projects  to 
improve  the  overall  health  and  sustainability  of  the 
Bahamian economy. It is being led by one of our young 
Ministers,  Khaalis  Rolle.  It  will  also  reinvigorate 
our  national  outlook  and  set  new  priorities  for  our 
international  engagement  going  forward.  We  will 
enhance our expertise in the areas of maritime affairs 
and  ocean  conservation,  environmental  sustainability 
and  economic  and  tax  matters  to  assist  in  the  further 
development  and  execution  of  our  national  priorities, 
both regionally and internationally. We are continuing 
to try to build a stronger Bahamas. 
The Bahamas is seeking a seat on the Human Rights 
Council in the election to be held on 28 October. The 
Bahamas  is  the  first  State  member  of  the  Caribbean 
Community and the first English-speaking country in 
the Latin American and Caribbean region to do so. We 
do not do so lightly. Our election to the Human Rights 
Council  would  provide  a  unique  opportunity  to  bring 
balance  in  the  promotion  and  consideration  of  global 
human  rights  issues  in  that  we  would  provide  the 
perspective of a small State. We hope that we can count 
on the support of Member States for our candidature for 
election both to the Human Rights Council and to the 
Council of the International Maritime Organization.
those 
is  among 
I speak up again this year for the right of the people 
of the Turks and Caicos islands to self-determination. 
The  Bahamas 
justly  demanding 
reparations  for  the  damage  inflicted  on  Caribbean 
societies by slavery. In the words of our poet and singer 
Tony McKay: “I come to collect everything that you owe 
me ... pay me what you owe me.” The Bahamas supports 
our sister CARICOM State, Belize, in its quest to live 
within  secure  and  recognized  borders.  Similarly,  we 
are deeply concerned about the attempt to undermine 
the territorial integrity of our sister CARICOM State, 
Guyana.
15-29876
19/26
A/70/PV.24 
01/10/2015
The  Bahamas  is  pleased  at  the  rapprochement 
between  the  United  States  of  America  and  Cuba. 
President Barack Obama of the United States has made 
the right, courageous decision. This enhances the peace 
in  our  neighbourhood,  and  our  officials  are  working 
with  Cuba  on  synergies  for  the  development  of  our 
economies. This year we will once again support an end 
to the economic embargo when the draft resolution is 
voted on in the General Assembly.
Concerning  the  evironment  and  climate  change, 
I  would  like  to  say  that  we  welcome  the  launch  on 
30  September  of  the  Small  Island  Developing  States 
Sustainable  Energy  Initiative  (SIDS  DOCK),  which 
was  jointly  developed  by  the  Caribbean  Community 
Climate Change Centre and the secretariat of the Pacific 
Regional  Environment  Programme,  in  cooperation 
with the Alliance of Small Island States. SIDS DOCK 
is meant to assist small island developing States in the 
Pacific and Caribbean regions in addressing the effects 
of  climate  change,  providing  them  with  a  collective 
institutional  mechanism  to  help  them  transform  their 
national  energy  sectors  into  catalysts  for  sustainable 
economic  development  and  generating 
financial 
resources for addressing adaptation to climate change.
We affirm our commitment to a binding agreement 
in Paris at the forthcoming Climate Change Conference 
and  urge  all  countries  to  work  to  that  end.  As  I  said 
earlier,  even  as  we  speak  the  Bahamas  is  under  the 
threat of flooding and a hurricane. When one realizes 
that  80  per  cent  of  our  land  is  lower  than  five  feet 
above  sea  level,  one  understands  that  a  tidal  surge  is 
certainly  an  existential  threat  to  our  country  and  an 
example of a threat posed by climate change. We urge 
continued support for the people of Dominica, our sister 
CARICOM  State,  which  suffered  enormous  damage 
and loss of life from Tropical Storm Erika in August. 
We would also like to express our solidarity with the 
people of Chile, who suffered damage and loss of life 
during the recent earthquake there.
Migration  and  the  global  refugee  crisis  are  an 
increasing  problem  around  the  world.  In  the  view  of 
the Bahamas, we are facing the most pressing refugee 
crisis  since  the  Second  World  War.  In  recent  months, 
we  have  seen  hundreds  of  thousands  of  migrants  and 
refugees from conflict- and war-torn areas throughout 
the  Middle  East  embarking  on  perilous  journeys  in 
their search for refuge in Western Europe. 
For  the  Bahamas,  illegal  migration  through  its 
territory is an awful reality. We are resolute in our task 
of ensuring that migration is lawful, safe and orderly, 
and  that  it  involves  increased  dialogue  and  greater 
participation in the process by all countries of origin, 
transit and destination. We are equally mindful of our 
international obligations, in tandem with our sovereign 
right  to  protect  our  borders.  We  strive  to  ensure  that 
respect  for  human  rights  is  integral  to  our  migration 
policies. The Bahamas will, however, take all measures 
within  the  law  and  international  norms  to  protect  its 
borders  and  ensure  that  it  is  not  overrun  by  illegal 
migrants.
I end with a plea for the young people of the world. 
We  must  commit  to  them  afresh,  here  at  the  United 
Nations.  They  are  the  future,  and  everything  we  do 
must be done keeping in mind the fact that, whether we 
like it or not, we are handing things over to them. Now 
is the time to act to end their sense of hopelessness and 
their joblessness. The Prime Minister of the Bahamas 
said it here again last week: if we ignore them, we do so 
at our peril (see A/70/PV.4). 
Back in 1919, the Irish poet William Butler Yeats, 
speaking  to  his  generation,  lamented  that  the  centre 
could  not  hold.  That  poem  was  written  before  the 
United  Nations  came  into  being.  Today,  this  body  is 
at the centre of the human endeavour, so let us ensure 
that the centre does hold. The Bahamas is committed 
to  the  United  Nations  and  to  a  sustainable  future  for 
our world. Where better than in this building, and who 
better than the United Nations? I say again, now more 
than ever we need the United Nations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Adel  Ahmed  Al-Jubeir, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia.
Mr.  Al-Jubeir  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
Seventy  years  have  passed  since  the  United  Nations 
was founded, and we are gathered here today to recall 
together  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  My  country  was  among  the 
founding signatory Members in 1945.
We  all  realize  that  the  United  Nations  came  into 
the world in the wake of two world wars that resulted 
in  enormous  financial  and  human  costs,  something 
that makes us understand the importance of upholding 
the  principles  of  the  Charter,  aimed  at  establishing 
security and stability in our world. Paramount among 
those  principles  is  that  of  preventing  new  destructive 
and  lethal  wars  and  conflicts.  We  should  not  forget 
20/26 
15-29876
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.24
that the main principle and goal is the maintenance of 
international peace and security. That can be achieved 
only  by  promoting  justice,  equality  and  respect  for 
international law among our nations, and in particular 
the  principle  of  State  sovereignty,  in  accordance  with 
the  Treaty  of  Westphalia  of  1648,  which  established 
State  independence  and  sovereignty  as  the  basis  of 
modern international relations.
The Palestinian question has become a permanent 
item  on 
the  General  Assembly’s  agenda.  Today, 
despite all the initiatives and opinions that have been 
put forward, the Palestinian people continue to suffer 
and to be deprived of their right to live in dignity, in 
flagrant defiance of the rules of international law and 
internationally legitimate resolutions. We are in urgent 
need  of  a  solution  to  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  based 
on the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and 
the Arab Peace Initiative, which was promoted by my 
country and adopted 13 years ago by the Arab and Islamic 
worlds and has garnered wide international support. Its 
aim is to establish an independent Palestinian State with 
Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. That is why we repeat 
our  denunciation  of  Israel’s  violations  of  the  Al-Aqsa 
Mosque, which have exacerbated the conflict, as well 
as extremism and violence in the world.
The  crisis  in  Syria  has  now  entered  its  fifth 
year.  The  international  community  continues  to  be 
incapable  of  taking  decisive  steps  to  save  the  Syrian 
people from the machinery of killing, destruction and 
forced  displacement  operated  by  Bashar  Al-Assad, 
which has resulted in the deaths of more than 300,000 
people  and  the  displacement  of  12  million  Syrians 
and the destruction of the country in one of the worst 
humanitarian disasters we have seen in our times. The 
only  way  to  resolve  this  crisis  is  through  a  political 
solution  based  on  the  Geneva  I  final  communiqué 
(A/66/865, annex), in order to maintain Syria’s national 
unity and preserve its State institutions, both civil and 
military, and to create a transitional council on which 
Bashar Al-Assad and those who have Syrian blood on 
their hands have no place. We will continue to push for 
such  a  solution  and  will  be  among  the  first  countries 
to  support  the  Syrian  people  and  to  contribute  to 
alleviating their suffering.
The legitimate coalition forces accomplished much 
in  Yemen.  Chief  among  their  achievements  was  the 
liberation of the city of Aden and of the Bab al-Mandab 
Strait, which secured international maritime freedom. 
The  military  option  was  a  last  resort  following  the 
coup d’êtat staged by the Houthis and Saleh in which 
they  seized  power  and  laid  siege  to  the  presidential 
palace  and  residence  in  Aden,  thereby  threatening 
the  legitimate  President.  In  response,  we  initiated  a 
military intervention on the basis of a demand by the 
legitimate  Government  of  Yemen  and  in  accordance 
with  Article  51  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
Our aim is to find a political solution based on the Gulf 
Cooperation  Council  initiative,  the  conclusions  of  the 
national dialogue, and Security Council resolution 2216 
(2015). Although we recognize that the Houthis are part 
and parcel of the social fabric in Yemen, that does not 
give  them  the  prerogative  to  own  militias  outside  the 
framework of the State of Yemen or at the expense of 
the rest of the Yemeni people.
Certain  parties  are  trying  to  exacerbate  and 
escalate the crisis in Yemen through incitment and arms 
smuggling,  as  when  an  Iranian  ship  laden  with  arms 
for  the  rebels  was  intercepted  on  26  September.  Our 
Kingdom  and  our  partners  are  intensifying  efforts  in 
order to mobilize international humanitarian assistance 
to  Yemen.  The  King  Salman  Humanitarian  Aid  and 
Relief Centre has provided assistance to the brotherly 
people of Yemen. His Majesty, the Custodian of the Two 
Holy  Mosques,  is  striving  to  improve  the  conditions 
of  the  Yemenis  who  live  illegally  in  the  Kingdom  by 
providing employment, education and health care.
Convinced that the realization of the principles and 
purposes  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  should 
focus  on  the  maintenance  of  security  and  peace  the 
world  over,  we  were  in  the  vanguard  of  the  nations 
calling for a zone free of nuclear and other weapons of 
mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East.  That  is  why  we 
welcomed the recent agreement between the P5+1 and 
the Islamic Republic of Iran, which prevents Iran from 
acquiring nuclear weapons. We call on Iran to renounce 
its meddling in Arab affairs, which we will firmly resist 
in our desire to build good-neighbourly relations with 
Iran,  based  on  mutual  respect,  good  neighbourliness 
and non-interference in the affairs of other countries. 
We also call on Iran to end its occupation of the three 
islands  in  the  Arabian  Gulf  belonging  to  the  sisterly 
United Arab Emirates.
We  are  among  the  States  targeted  by  terrorism 
and  extremism.  We  continue  to  fight  terrorists  and 
are  determined  to  find  a  way  to  eradicat  the  grave 
phenomenon  of  terrorism.  We  were  among  the  first 
countries to combat terrorism in all its intellectual and 
ideological aspects and to seek to cut off its financial 
15-29876
21/26
A/70/PV.24 
01/10/2015
resources.  We  denounce  the  attempt  by  terrorists  to 
attribute  their  crimes  to  Islam,  the  religion  of  love, 
peace, moderation and tolerance.
We  attach  primary  importance  to  development 
issues,  especially  in  developing  countries.  Successful 
development  hinges  on  the  international  community’s 
respect  for  a  nation’s  specificities,  whether  historical, 
ethnic,  religious  or  cultural.  The  achievement  of 
sustainable  development  should  therefore  take  into 
acount the specific aims of each individual country and 
its particular level of development. For that reason, we 
have been actively and directly involved in shaping the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
In  closing,  I  wish  to  stress  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations  and  its  bodies  in  our  changing  world.  The 
challenges we face in various fields make it incumbent 
upon us to enhance the role of the United Nations and to 
reinvigorate its bodies, pushing ahead with the reform 
of  the  Organization  so  that  it  can  keep  pace  with  the 
changes in the international arena.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Rimbink  Pato,  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  Trade  and  Immigration  of  the 
Independent State of Papua New Guinea.
Mr.  Pato  (Papua  New  Guinea):  On  behalf  of  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Papua  New  Guinea,  I 
congratulate  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventieth  session  on  his  election.  We  also  pay 
tribute  to  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam 
Kutesa,  Foreign  Minister  of  Uganda,  for  his  able 
leadership  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-ninth  session  and  for  steering  the  course  for 
the  adoption  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda. 
Furthermore, we extend our gratitude to the Secretary-
General  for  his  unfailing  commitment  and  visionary 
leadership of the United Nations, thereby ensuring that 
the spirit of the Charter remains an enduring pillar for 
our  collective  well-being  as  we  retool  it  to  meet  the 
emerging  challenges  and  opportunities  of  the  twenty-
first century and beyond.
We commend the theme of the general debate, “The 
United  Nations  at  70:  a  new  commitment  to  action”, 
and  pledge  our  support  to  the  presidency  in  ensuring 
the  effective  implementation  of  the  transformative 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1)  that  was  adopted  unanimously  a  few  days  ago. 
As  Papua  New  Guinea  celebrates  its  fortieth  year  of 
nationhood, we also join the United Nations family this 
year  in  marking  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations 
70 years ago. My Government is committed to working 
in close partnership with all stakeholders to implement 
the post-2015 development agenda, which in turn must 
be nationally owned and driven. 
We can succeed only when countries truly own and 
lead  their  national  development  plans  and  strategies, 
while  integrating  the  2030  Agenda.  Consistent  with 
its  2014  national  strategy  for  responsible  sustainable 
development,  Papua  New  Guinea  recognizes  that  a 
healthy,  well-educated  population  is  the  underlying 
driver for development. 
principle 
of 
to 
The 
responsible, 
sustainable 
development  means  that  we  do  not  conduct  ourselves 
in a manner that will compromise future generations. 
The  high-level  political  forum  must  support  national, 
regional  and  global  efforts  with  respect 
the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  and  avoid 
issues  such  as  those  that  undermined  the  work  of 
the  Commission  on  Sustainable  Development.  The 
Government of Papua New Guinea has adopted enabling 
national  policies,  strategies  and  plans  to  provide  an 
environment  conducive  to  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals and the SDGs. Those policies cover 
the areas of population, water and sanitation, hygiene, 
free  basic  health  services  and  tuition-free  education. 
The free-education policy has led to the enrolment in 
schools of an additional 2 million children in the past 
two years.
impacted 
Papua  New  Guinea  has  laid  a  strong  foundation 
for development in the past decade. This has resulted 
in  unprecedented  economic  growth,  which  reached 
double digits in 2012. However, the current depression 
in  international  commodity  prices  and  stock  markets 
has  negatively 
the  country’s  economic 
performance.  We  are  taking  steps  to  ensure  that  the 
recent adverse conditions do not jeopardize the positive 
gains  made  in  the  past  10  years.  Papua  New  Guinea 
is  part  of  the  global  economy  and,  as  such,  seeks  a 
stable,  equitable  international  economic  and  financial 
architecture  to  support  our  efforts  in  advancing 
human  development.  The  challenge  for  Papua  New 
Guinea is to translate enhanced economic growth and 
other  transformations  into  improved  practical  human 
development outcomes, in order to achieve our National 
Vision 2050. That should then result in the achievement 
of the SDGs.
As we gather here today, there are many conflicts 
worldwide, with millions of people displaced and forced 
22/26 
15-29876
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.24
to leave their homes under risky conditions, in search 
of  safety  and  security.  Threats  to  peace  and  security 
hinder  the  achievement  of  the  2030  Agenda.  Those 
security  concerns,  including  transnational  crime  and 
international  terrorism,  if  not  adequately  contained, 
will  have  proliferating  cross-border  effects  on  global 
peace, stability and economic prosperity, including for 
us  in  the  Pacific  Islands  region.  Papua  New  Guinea 
echoes the calls on all conflicting parties to amicably 
discuss and resolve their differences under the mandate 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  with  a  view  to 
maintaining global peace and security.
Papua  New  Guinea  is  proud  to  contribute  to  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  peacekeepers  in  South 
Sudan and Darfur. We hope to increase our deployment 
numbers as our economy grows.
The  global  refugee  crisis  has  reached  Papua  New 
Guinea. We have received refugees and asylum seekers 
since independence. We are currently working closely 
with  the  Government  of  Australia  by  providing  an 
asylum-seeker  processing  facility  and  contributing 
to  finding  lasting  solutions  to  the  global  challenge. 
We strongly believe that it is high time for the global 
community to seriously address the root causes of the 
refugee situation and the forced displacement of people 
and families.
The  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light  weapons 
remains  a  serious  threat  to  national  and  global 
peace,  security  and  development.  In  that  light,  Papua 
New  Guinea  has  prioritized  policy  initiatives  and 
programmes  to  curb  the  importation  and  trading  of 
firearms. 
Papua  New  Guinea  reaffirms  its  commitment  to 
upholding  and  protecting  fundamental  human  rights. 
Our  national  population  policy  2015-2024  recognizes 
that  human  rights  are  closely 
intertwined  with 
sustainable development.
Papua New Guinea welcomes the Sendai Framework 
for Disaster Risk Reduction. This global mechanism is 
essential, given the increasing frequency and severity 
of climate-induced natural disasters, particularly in our 
Pacific islands region. Recognizing the need for better 
preparation for timely responses to disasters and crisis 
situations,  the  Pacific  subregional  grouping  —  the 
Melanesian  Spearhead  Group  —  is  in  the  process  of 
establishing  a  humanitarian  and  emergency  technical 
response  coordination  centre.  We  welcome  technical 
and capacity-building assistance from the international 
community  to  support  our  efforts,  as  provided  for 
under  international  agreements,  including  the  SIDS 
Accelerated Modalities of Action (SAMOA) Pathway. 
The  world  has  changed  since  the  formation  of 
the  United  Nations  70  years  ago.  The  current  United 
Nations  system  requires  urgent  reform,  and  we 
support  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  in  that 
regard.  On  Security  Council  reform,  we  welcome 
the  General  Assembly’s  recent  adoption  of  decision 
69/560, on equitable distribution and representation in 
the  Council’s  membership.  Additionally,  Papua  New 
Guinea supports the initiative to review the use of the 
veto power in the Security Council, particularly during 
times of grave humanitarian crisis and mass atrocities.
In the regional context, we are fully supportive of 
the 2014 Pacific Islands Forum reforms, whereby a new 
regional development road map — the Framework for 
Pacific Regionalism — was adopted to promote greater 
regional  cooperation,  integration  and  connectivity. 
Through 
this  Framework,  Papua  New  Guinea 
committed  $100  million  for  2014-2018  to  its  regional 
outreach  programme,  to  support  Pacific  SIDS  in 
critical areas of development such as good governance, 
education,  health,  capacity-building,  climate  change, 
relief  assistance  and  natural  disaster  reconstruction 
efforts. 
Our  assistance  to  Pacific  SIDS  exemplifies  and 
promotes  the  spirit  of  South-South  cooperation,  and 
we encourage others to join us in similar partnerships. 
In  that  respect,  Papua  New  Guinea  has  made  modest 
financial  contributions  to  Fiji,  the  Marshall  Islands, 
Niue,  Kiribati,  Solomon  Islands,  Tonga,  Tuvalu  and 
Vanuatu, as well as to various regional entities including 
the Pacific Islands Forum, the Secretariat of the Pacific 
Community,  the  South  Pacific  Regional  Environment 
Programme  and  the  Melanesian  Spearhead  Group,  to 
add value to regional partnerships.
The  Pacific  region  continues  to  attach  critical 
importance  to  ensuring  the  sustainable  development, 
management and conservation of the Pacific Ocean for 
our  peoples’  livelihoods,  food  security  and  economic 
development. In this regard, we welcome SDG 14, on 
conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  the  oceans,  seas 
and  marine  resources.  We  call  upon  development 
partners  to  assist  us  in  addressing  various  challenges 
related to the oceans, including illegal, unregulated and 
unreported fishing in our territorial waters.
15-29876
23/26
A/70/PV.24 
01/10/2015
Climate  change  poses  imminent  dangers  with 
wide-ranging  implications,  including  threats  not  only 
to human security, survival and development, but also 
to  the  entire  global  ecosystem.  Our  Climate  Change 
Management  Act  is  possibly  the  first  legislation  of 
its kind in the Pacific islands. It provides for funding 
arrangements  to  assist  in  the  adaptation  to  climate 
change.
Along with other Pacific island States, Papua New 
Guinea  looks  forward  to  the  twenty-first  session  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) 
in  Paris  and  hopes  that  a  new  comprehensive  and 
legally  binding  climate  agreement  will  be  adopted  to 
set the schedules for the reduction of carbon emissions 
from  both  the  developed  and  developing  world.  The 
most  imminent  threat  resulting  from  sea  level  rise 
due  to  climate  change  is  the  forced  displacement 
of  populations  and  complete  inundation  and  loss  of 
sovereign territories, particularly in Pacific small island 
developing  States.  We  therefore  call  on  the  Security 
Council  to  deal  decisively  with  the  implications  of 
climate change and security issues.
The  recent  Pacific  Island  Forum  summit  in  Port 
Moresby  adopted  the  Pacific  Island  Forum  Leaders 
Declaration on Climate Change Action. Leaders were 
deeply concerned about the serious effects and impacts 
of climate change, particularly on national and regional 
development and security issues. Among other things, 
the  Pacific  island  leaders  declared  that  an  increase 
of  1.5°C  would  severely  exacerbate  the  particular 
challenges  facing  the  most  vulnerable  smaller  island 
States of the Pacific and urged that all efforts be made 
to keep us within the global temperature goal, as noted 
by the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC at its 
twentieth session, in its decision 1/CP.20. 
The  2015  Pacific 
Islands  Forum  Leaders 
Declaration on Climate Change Action also expresses 
an  expectation  that  there  will  be  access  to  financial 
resources  for  climate  change  actions  and  resilience 
in  vulnerable  developing  countries; 
recognition 
of  the  special  circumstances  and  vulnerability  of 
SIDS,  particularly  those  in  the  Pacific,  and  the  least 
developed  countries  (LDCs);  support  for  inclusion 
in  the  Paris  outcome  document  of  loss  and  damage 
as  a  critical  and  stand-alone  element,  building  on  the 
ongoing work of the Warsaw International Mechanism 
for  Loss  and  Damage;  and  finally,  recognition  of 
impacts  of  climate  change  on  women  and  youth,  the 
elderly,  the  disabled,  indigenous  peoples  and  other 
vulnerable  and  marginalized  groups,  acknowledging 
their  contributions  to  effective  implementation  of  the 
Paris outcome document.
Let  us  not  leave  anyone  —  particularly  those  of 
us in SIDS and LDCs — behind, drowning. We must 
strive to come together in accordance with the rule of 
law for a better, more secure and prosperous world.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for  this 
meeting. 
Several  representatives  have  asked  to  speak  in 
exercise of the right of reply. May I remind members 
that statements in the exercise of the right of reply are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
five minutes for the second intervention and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Ahmad  (Pakistan):  We  have  requested  the 
floor  in  response  to  India’s  statement  in  the  general 
debate (see A/70/PV.22). 
India’s  attempts  to  deny  its  illegal  occupation 
of  Jammu  and  Kashmir  are  a  travesty  of  history.  To 
perpetuate  its  occupation,  India  has  deployed  over 
700,000 troops in Indian-occupied Jammu and Kashmir. 
Only  the  occupier  would  oppose  the  implementation 
of  Security  Council  resolutions  that  promised  self-
determination  to  the  people  of  the  disputed  State  of 
Jammu and Kashmir. 
Over  100,000  Kashmiris  have  been  killed. 
Thousands of women have been widowed and raped and 
thousands of children orphaned by this brutal occupation 
and  the  most  egregious  form  of  State  terrorism  by 
India.  Independent  human  rights  organizations  have 
confirmed the existence of over 6,000 unnamed mass 
graves in Indian-occuped Kashmir. If India had respect 
for  international  law  and  moral  courage,  it  would 
end its reign of terror, withdraw its troops and let the 
Kashmiris  freely  decide  their  future  in  the  United 
Nations-mandated  plebiscite  promised  to  them  by  the 
resolutions of the Security Council. 
resolutions  47 
Security  Council 
(1948)  of 
21  April  1948,  51  (1948)  of  3  June  1948,  80  (1950) 
of  14  March  1950,  91  (1951)  of  30  March  1951,  122 
(1957)  of  24  January  1957  and  the  resolutions  of  the 
United Nations Commission for India and Pakistan of 
13  August  1948  and  5  January  1949  declare  that  the 
final  disposition  of  the  State  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir 
24/26 
15-29876
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.24
would be made in accordance with the will of the people 
expressed through the democratic method of a free and 
impartial  plebiscite  conducted  under  the  auspices  of 
the United Nations. The people of Jammu and Kashmir 
await fulfilment of that promise.
The core issue of Jammu and Kashmir cannot be cast 
aside by empty rhetoric. It has been and will always be 
at the top of the agenda of any talks between India and 
Pakistan.  That  is  because  durable  peace  and  stability 
in  the  region  depend  on  a  just  and  lasting  settlement 
of  this  dispute,  in  accordance  with  the  resolutions  of 
the  Security  Council.  It  is  therefore  disingenuous  of 
India to ignore the serious peace initiative proposed by 
the Prime Minister of Pakistan from this rostrum (see 
A/70/PV.19). 
While  proclaiming  its  willingness  to  talk,  India 
has  imposed  preconditions,  knowing  that  they  would 
be  unacceptable  to  Pakistan.  India’s  insistence  on 
limiting the talks to a one-point agenda proves that it is 
neither interested nor serious in engaging in a genuine 
dialogue.  Using  the  terrorism  bogey,  India  has  not 
only stalled the bilateral dialogue but also vitiated the 
overall atmosphere between the two countries. 
Pakistan’s commitment and its role and sacrifices 
in the fight against terrorism, including the success of 
our  ongoing  counter-terrorism  operations,  have  been 
acknowledged  and  praised  by  the  entire  international 
community.  The  entire  world,  with  the  exception  of 
India,  is  also  united  in  unequivocally  condemning 
terrorism.  India  is  insensitive  to  the  tragic  human 
dimension of terrorism. It seems to suggest that acts of 
terrorism in Pakistan are acceptable. By doing so, India 
in fact seeks to mask its own support and sponsorship 
of terrorism in Pakistan.
India  has  also  failed  to  bring  to  justice  the 
perpetrators of terrorism against innocent civilians in 
the  2007  Samjhauta  Express  bombings.  The  decision 
of  the  Indian  Government  not  to  challenge  the  bail 
granted to Swami Aseemanand, the man accused in the 
case,  raises  serious  doubts  about  India’s  willingness 
to  convict  its  nationals  involved  in  terrorist  incidents 
against Muslims. That is a continuation of the sad saga 
of the massacre of Muslims in Gujarat.
Pakistan  has  today  handed  over  to  the  Secretary-
General  dossiers  containing  evidence  of 
Indian 
involvement  in  terrorism  and  fomenting  instability 
in  Pakistan.  The  dossiers  include  details  of  Indian 
interference  and  support  for  terrorism  in  Balochistan 
and Karachi, as well as of its security and intelligence 
agencies  linked  with  the  Tehrik-i-Taliban  Pakistan, 
especially in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas.
The  international  community  supports  dialogue 
between  India  and  Pakistan.  Despite  India’s  hostile 
attitude,  it  remains  our  desire  to  move  forward  in  an 
open  and  constructive  manner.  Our  Prime  Minister’s 
peace initiative is in line with his vision of a friendly 
neighbourhood  that  he  enunciated  immediately  after 
taking  office  two  years  ago.  We  hope  that  India 
will  respond  positively  in  the  interest  of  peace  and 
prosperity — the cherished collective objectives of our 
peoples.
Mrs.  Vadiati  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  Once 
more,  the  representative  of  the  Israeli  regime  (see 
A/70/PV.22) demonstrated clearly how much he grieves 
the loss of the smokescreen that he needed to use for 
hiding  his  regime’s  crimes  and  atrocities  against  the 
Palestinian people and how much he regrets the nuclear 
deal between Iran and the P5+1, which is harmful to his 
schemes. He allocated the major part of his speech to 
attacking all members of the international community 
for their strong support for the nuclear deal, a deal that 
just removes one layer of tension from the very tense 
Middle East. He and his cronies expected to continue 
basking  in  the  happiness  of  keeping  everybody  busy 
with  the  phony  issue  while  they  continue  to  keep 
Palestine under their occupation and brutally suppress 
any resistance.
The support that the Israeli regime provides to the 
elements of the Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham in 
the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  and  the  vicinity  is  further 
evidence that they wish to keep all tensions high in the 
region and to stoke them. They wish to keep tensions 
rising  because  peace  and  stability  in  the  region  is  an 
existential threat to them. If the region becomes quiet, 
they  will  be  back  in  the  spotlight  and  will  need  to 
explain  why  they  keep  expanding  illegal  settlements 
in the occupied Palestinian territory while pretending 
to have been engaged with them in the so-called peace 
process for the past 25 years without any results. 
Moreover,  the  Israeli  regime  and  its  cronies  in 
many  countries  did  whatever  was  in  their  power  to 
prevent  Governments  from  supporting  the  nuclear 
deal, and they utterly failed. In that context, it is quite 
understandable  why  the  Israeli  representative  was  so 
angry  and  shamefully  insulted  the  representatives  of 
the  nations  represented  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  the 
whole international community.
15-29876
25/26
A/70/PV.24 
01/10/2015
is  committed 
to 
My  Government 
faithfully 
implementing 
the 
Joint 
Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  and,  with  the  help  of 
the international community, to restoring stability and 
peace  to  our  region.  In  that  light,  we  will  surely  see 
its  obligations  under 
more annoyed and angry representatives of the Israeli 
regime  year  after  year  in  the  Assembly.  The  angrier 
they are, the calmer our region will be.
The meeting rose at 8.45 p.m.
26/26 
15-29876
