United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
47th plenary meeting
Thursday, 5 November 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.47
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 75
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of 
Justice (A/70/4)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/70/327)
The  President: 
I  welcome  The  Honourable 
Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  to  the  General  Assembly.  Since  its 
creation 70 years ago, the Court has played a crucial role 
in advancing the rule of law at the international level, 
and its judgments and advisory opinions contribute to 
promoting  international  law  worldwide.  During  those 
years, the increased level of activity of the Court has 
been  an  indication  of  the  growing  desire  of  States  to 
settle their international disputes by peaceful means, in 
accordance with the Charter. It has also demonstrated 
that  States  from  all  regions  of  the  world  have  strong 
confidence  in  the  Court  and  its  capacity  to  deliver 
justice for all.
In April next year, we will celebrate the seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  first  session  of  the  International 
Court of Justice. That will be an occasion to recognize 
the  fundamental  role  that  the  principal  judicial  organ 
of the United Nations has played in the maintenance of 
peace and security in our world, but also in dealing with 
the challenges that lie ahead and how best to overcome 
them, inspired by our commitment to international law.
It is now my honour to invite Judge Ronny Abraham, 
President of the International Court of Justice, to take 
the floor.
Mr. Abraham, President of the International Court 
of  Justice (spoke  in  French):  I  would  first  of  all  like 
to  begin  by  taking  this  opportunity  to  congratulate 
you, Mr. President, on your election as President of the 
General Assembly at its seventieth session. I wish you 
every success in your mission.
I  should  also  like  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the 
Assembly  for  following  the  long-standing  tradition 
of  giving  the  President  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  the  opportunity  to  present  an  account  of  the 
Court’s  judicial  activity  over  the  previous  year.  I  am 
particularly honoured to address the Assembly for the 
first  time  as  President  and  thus  to  avail  myself  of  a 
privilege that bears witness to the interest in the Court 
displayed by the General Assembly and the support that 
it provides the Court.
In  the  course  of  the  judicial  year  2014-2015,  the 
Court has continued to work, to the best of its abilities, 
for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  those  disputes  that  the 
community  of  States  has  seen  fit  to  submit  to  it.  As 
can be seen from the report that I have the honour to 
present today (A/70/4), the Court has made every effort 
to  meet,  in  a  timely  manner,  the  expectations  of  the 
international  parties  appearing  before  it.  During  the 
reporting period from 1 August 2014 to 31 July 2015, 
the  total  number  of  contentious  cases  pending  before 
the Court was 14. The Court held hearings in three of 
those cases. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-35218 (E)
*1535218*
A/70/PV.47 
05/11/2015
First, in April and May, the Court heard arguments 
on the merits of the case Certain Activities carried out by 
Nicaragua in the Border Area (Costa Rica v. Nicaragua), 
which was joined with the case Construction of a Road 
in Costa Rica along the San Juan River (Nicaragua v. 
Costa  Rica),  accompanied  by  provisional  measures. 
Then, in May 2015, the Court held hearings in the case 
Obligation  to  Negotiate  Access  to  the  Pacific  Ocean 
(Bolivia  v.  Chile).  It  should,  moreover,  be  noted  that 
during  the  reporting  period,  beginning  on  1  August, 
the Court also held hearings on preliminary objections 
in  two  cases:  in  September  and  October,  Alleged 
Violations  of  Sovereign  Rights  and  Maritime  Spaces 
in the Caribbean Sea (Nicaragua v. Colombia); and in 
October, Question of the Delimitation of the Continental 
Shelf  between  Nicaragua  and  Colombia  beyond  200 
nautical miles from the Nicaraguan Coast (Nicaragua 
v.  Colombia).  Currently,  all  of  the  cases  in  which  the 
Court  has  held  hearings  are  under  deliberation,  with 
the exception of the proceedings between Bolivia and 
Chile, in which, on 24 September, the Court delivered 
a judgment in which it found that it has jurisdiction in 
the case, and the proceedings on the merits of the case 
have accordingly been resumed. 
During the reporting period, the Court also delivered 
its  judgment  on  the  merits  in  the  case  Application  of 
the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of 
the Crime of Genocide (Croatia v. Serbia). I shall, as is 
customary, offer a brief presentation of that judgment. I 
shall then say a few words about the judgment rendered 
some weeks ago on the preliminary objection raised by 
Chile in the case Obligation to Negotiate Access to the 
Pacific Ocean (Bolivia v. Chile).
The 
judgment  on 
the  merits,  delivered  on 
3 February, brought to a close the case Application of 
the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of 
the Crime of Genocide (Croatia v. Serbia). On 2 July 
1999, the Government of the Croatia filed an application 
instituting  proceedings  against  the  Federal  Republic 
of  Yugoslavia  with  respect  to  a  dispute  concerning 
alleged  violations  of  the  1948  Convention  on  the 
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, 
a Convention that was approved, through the adoption 
of resolution 260 (III), on 9 December 1948 and entered 
into force on 12 January 1951. The application invoked 
article  IX  of  the  Genocide  Convention  as  the  basis 
for  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  On  11  September 
2002,  the  respondent  raised  preliminary  objections 
relating to that jurisdiction and to the admissibility of 
Croatia’s application, giving rise to a first judgment on 
18 November 2008.
In its judgment of 3 February, the Court began by 
recalling that the name of the respondent had changed 
over the course of the proceedings. In February 2003, 
the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  had  informed  the 
Court  that  it  was  to  be  henceforth  called  Serbia  and 
Montenegro.  Subsequently,  following  the  Republic  of 
Montenegro’s  declaration  of  independence  on  3  June 
2006, the Republic of Serbia — which I shall refer to 
as Serbia — remained the sole respondent in the case. 
The Court had previously indicated those changes in its 
2008  judgment  on  the  preliminary  objections.  In  that 
judgment, it had rejected the first and third preliminary 
objections raised by Serbia but had found, however, that 
the second objection was not, in the circumstances of 
the  case,  of  an  exclusively  preliminary  character  and 
should therefore be considered in the merits phase. In 
the second objection, Serbia asked the Court to find that 
Croatia’s  claims,  based  on  acts  or  omissions  that  had 
taken place prior to 27 April 1992, the date on which 
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia came into existence 
as a separate State, lay beyond its jurisdiction and were, 
moreover, inadmissible. Subject to that conclusion, the 
Court found that it had jurisdiction to entertain Croatia’s 
application. It therefore had to rule on that objection in 
its 2015 judgment, before considering, if necessary, the 
merits of Croatia’s claims.
I would also recall that, some months after the 2008 
judgment,  Serbia  filed  a  counter-claim,  in  which  it 
contended that Croatia had committed acts of genocide 
against  Croatian  Serbs  in  1995.  The  Court  had  to 
consider that claim as well. Before deciding the dispute, 
the  Court  first  began  by  setting  up  the  historical  and 
factual background to the case. It therefore first recalled 
that  both  parties  to  the  dispute  were  sovereign  States 
that  had  emerged  from  the  break-up  of  the  Socialist 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and it outlined the key 
stages of their establishment as such. It then described 
the main events that had taken place in Croatia between 
1990  and  1995,  and  noted  in  particular  that  shortly 
after Croatia’s declaration of independence on 25 June 
1991,  an  armed  conflict  broke  out  between,  on  the 
one  hand,  Croatia’s  armed  forces  and,  on  the  other, 
Serb  forces  opposed  to  Croatia’s  independence.  At 
least  from  September  1991  on,  the  Yugoslav  National 
Army  (JNA)  —  which,  according  to  Croatia,  was  by 
then controlled by the Government of the Republic of 
2/26 
15-35218
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.47
Serbia — intervened in the fighting against the Croatian 
Government forces.
Yugoslavia for breaches of the Convention prior to that 
date.
I  would  like  to  point  out  in  passing  that  I  have 
just  used  the  term  Serb  forces,  as  the  Court  did  in 
its  judgment,  to  refer  collectively  to  part  of  the  Serb 
minority  within  Croatia  and  to  various  paramilitary 
groups,  irrespective  of  the  issue  of  the  attribution  of 
their conduct.
The  Court  observed  that  by  late  1991,  those  Serb 
forces  and  the  JNA  controlled  around  one  third  of 
Croatian territory within its boundaries in the Socialist 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, a situation that was to 
last until 1995. Croatia alleged that it was during that 
conflict that a genocide had been committed. The Court 
also described how, during the spring and summer of 
1995, Croatia had succeeded, as a result of a series of 
military operations, in retaking the greater part of the 
territory that had slipped from its control; Serbia, for 
its part, alleged in its counter-claim that a genocide had 
taken  place  during  the  Croatian  Operation  Storm  in 
August 1995.
the  admissibility  of 
Having accordingly outlined the background to the 
case, the Court turned to the questions of its jurisdiction 
and 
the  parties’  respective 
claims.  Starting  with  the  questions  of  jurisdiction 
and  admissibility  as  they  arose  in  the  context  of 
Croatia’s  claim,  the  Court  recalled  that,  in  its  2008 
judgment, it had found that it had jurisdiction to rule on 
Croatia’s claim regarding acts committed dating from 
27  April  1992  —  the  date  when  the  Federal  Republic 
of Yugoslavia came into existence, as a separate State, 
and  became  party,  by  succession,  to  the  Genocide 
Convention — but that it had reserved its decision on its 
jurisdiction  pertaining  to  breaches  of  the  Convention 
alleged to have been committed prior to that date.
After  analysing  the  parties’  arguments  on  the 
question,  the  Court  concluded  that  it  had  jurisdiction 
to rule on the whole of Croatia’s claim, including that 
part of it relating to events prior to 27 April 1992. To 
reach that conclusion, the Court began by stating that 
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia could not have been 
bound by the Convention before 27 April 1992, contrary 
to  Croatia’s  main  argument;  it  took  note,  however,  of 
an  alternative  argument  relied  on  by  the  Applicant, 
namely,  that  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia,  and 
subsequently  Serbia,  could  have  succeeded  to  the 
responsibility  of  the  Socialist  Federal  Republic  of 
The Court stated that in order to determine whether 
Serbia was responsible for breaches of the Convention, 
it  would  first  have  to  decide  whether  the  acts  alleged 
by  Croatia  had  taken  place  and,  if  so,  whether  they 
contravened  the  Convention;  secondly,  if  that  were 
the  case,  whether  those  acts  were  attributable  to 
the  Socialist  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  at  the 
time  that  they  had  occurred  and  whether  they  had 
involved  the  responsibility  of  the  latter;  and,  thirdly, 
assuming that the responsibility of the Socialist Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia had been involved, whether the 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia had succeeded to that 
responsibility.
Noting  that  the  parties  were  in  disagreement  on 
these questions, the Court considered that there was a 
dispute  between  them  falling  under  article  IX  of  the 
Convention, namely a
“[dispute] ... relating to the interpretation, application 
or  fulfilment  of  the  ...  Convention,  including  [one] 
relating to the responsibility of a State for genocide 
or for any of the other acts enumerated in article III”.
The  Court  concluded  that  it  had  jurisdiction  to 
rule on the dispute by specifying that, in reaching that 
conclusion,  it  was  not  necessary  to  take  a  decision 
beforehand  on  the  aforementioned  three  questions, 
since they were substantive.
Regarding  the  question  of  the  admissibility  of 
Croatia’s  claim,  the  Court  noted  that  Serbia  had 
argued  primarily,  as  a  matter  of  principle,  that  it 
was  inadmissible  because  the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia could not be held responsible for acts alleged 
to have taken place before it had come into existence as 
a State, on 27 April 1992; however, it observed that this 
argument  involved  questions  of  attribution,  on  which 
it was not necessary to rule before considering on the 
merits the acts alleged by Croatia.
The  Court  further  noted  Serbia’s  alternative 
argument that Croatia’s claim was inadmissible because 
it  related  to  events  prior  to  8  October  1991,  the  date 
on  which  Croatia  had  come  into  existence  as  a  State 
and  become  party  to  the  Convention;  it  pointed  out, 
however, that Croatia had not formulated any separate 
demands  for  the  events  that  had  occurred  before  and 
after 8 October 1991, and that, rather, it had advanced a 
15-35218
3/26
A/70/PV.47 
05/11/2015
single claim alleging a pattern of conduct increasing in 
intensity throughout the course of 1991.
In that context, the Court considered that what had 
happened  prior  to  8  October  1991  was,  in  any  event, 
pertinent  to  an  evaluation  of  whether  what  had  taken 
place  after  that  date  had  involved  violations  of  the 
Genocide Convention; it accordingly concluded that it 
was not necessary to rule on Serbia’s argument before 
it  had  considered  and  assessed  all  of  the  evidence 
submitted by Croatia.
The  Court  then  considered  the  question  of  the 
admissibility of Serbia’s counterclaim, in the light of the 
criteria set out in article 80 of its rules of procedure. It 
arrived at the conclusion that this claim was admissible, 
inasmuch as, first, it came within the jurisdiction of the 
Court  since  it  fell  within  the  scope  of  its  jurisdiction 
under  article  IX  of  the  Convention,  and,  secondly,  it 
was  directly  connected  with  the  subject  matter  of  the 
main claim, both in fact and in law.
the  Court  clarified 
the  question  of 
applicable  law  in  the  case,  namely,  the  Convention 
on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the  Crime  of 
Genocide. It recalled that, under the terms of article II 
of the Convention:
Thirdly, 
“[g]enocide  means  any  of  the  following  acts 
committed  with  intent  to  destroy,  in  whole  or  in 
part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, 
as such:
(a)  Killing members of the group;
(b)  Causing  serious  bodily  or  mental  harm  to 
members of the group;
(c)  Deliberately inflicting on the group conditions 
of  life  calculated  to  bring  about  its  physical 
destruction in whole or in part;
(d)  Imposing measures intended to prevent births 
within the group;
(e)  Forcibly  transferring  children  of  the  group  to 
another group.”
The  Court  recalled  that  genocide  thus  defined 
contains 
the 
physical  element,  or  actus  reus  —  acts  that  have 
been  committed  —  and  the  mental  element,  or  mens 
rea — the intent to destroy the group as such.
two  constituent  elements,  namely, 
With  regard,  first  of  all,  to  the  mental  element 
of  genocide,  the  Court  indicated  that  it  is  the  intent 
to  destroy,  in  whole  or  in  part,  a  national,  ethnical, 
racial  or  religious  group  as  such  that  is  the  essential 
characteristic of genocide and that distinguishes it from 
other serious crimes. It stated that this is regarded as a 
dolus specialis; that is to say, a specific intent which, in 
order for genocide to be established, must be present in 
addition to the intent required for each of the individual 
acts  involved.  The  Court  further  explained  that  the 
intent  must  be  the  physical  or  biological  destruction 
of the protected group, or of a substantial part of that 
group.  Evidence  of  that  intent  is  to  be  sought,  first, 
in the State’s policy, although such intent will seldom 
be  expressly  stated,  but  it  can  also  be  inferred  from 
a  pattern  of  conduct  where  such  intent  is  the  only 
reasonable  inference  to  be  drawn  from  the  acts  in 
question.
Next, regarding the physical element of the crime 
of genocide, the Court recalled the meaning to be given 
to the prohibited acts listed in subparagraphs (a) to (e) 
of article II of the Convention, which I cited.
Fourthly  and  finally,  still  in  the  stage  preceding 
the actual consideration of the merits of the case, the 
Court addressed questions of the burden of proof, the 
standard of proof and the methods of proof applicable 
in  the  case.  It  recalled  in  particular  that  it  is,  in 
principle, for the party alleging a fact to demonstrate 
its  existence.  It  further  noted  that  claims  against  a 
State involving charges of exceptional gravity must be 
proved by evidence that is fully conclusive. Finally, it 
laid down certain principles governing consideration of 
the evidence submitted by the parties, which in these 
proceedings included documents from the International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  former  Yugoslavia,  reports 
from  official  or  independent  bodies,  and  written 
statements of witnesses.
I now turn to the Court’s consideration of the merits 
of  the  case.  I  shall  begin  by  discussing  the  Court’s 
treatment of Croatia’s claim, which comes first in the 
judgment, and shall then turn to its treatment of Serbia’s 
counter-claim, which is dealt with subsequently.
Regarding  Croatia’s  claim  that  the  Court  should 
find  Serbia  responsible  for  violation  of  the  1948 
Genocide  Convention, 
the  Court  first  considered 
whether  acts  constituting  the  actus  reus  of  genocide 
had  been  committed  by  the  Yugoslav  National  Army 
or  Serb  forces  against  members  of  the  national  or 
ethnical Croat group between 1991 and 1995. Following 
a  thorough  analysis  of  the  evidence  in  the  case  file, 
4/26 
15-35218
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.47
it  concluded  that,  in  the  regions  of  Eastern  Slavonia, 
Western  Slavonia,  Banovina/Banija,  Kordun,  Lika 
and  Dalmatia,  the  Yugoslav  National  Army  and  Serb 
forces had committed acts constituting the actus reus of 
genocide within the meaning of subparagraphs (a) and 
(b) of article 2 of the Convention, namely, the killing 
of members of the national or ethnical Croat group and 
acts causing serious bodily or mental harm to members 
of that group. On the other hand, the Court stated that 
it  was  not  persuaded  that  acts  capable  of  constituting 
the  actus  reus  of  genocide  had  also  been  proved  in 
relation to subparagraphs (c) and (d) of article 2 of the 
Convention, that is, it considered that it had not been 
established  that  conditions  of  life  calculated  to  bring 
about the group’s physical destruction, in whole or in 
part, had been deliberately inflicted, or that measures 
intended  to  prevent  births  within  the  group  had  been 
imposed.
The actus reus of genocide within the meaning of 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of article 2 of the Convention 
having  thus  been  established,  the  Court  examined 
whether the acts in question had been committed with 
genocidal intent. It stated that, in the absence of direct 
evidence  of  such  intent,  it  would  consider  whether  a 
pattern of conduct had been established from which the 
only  reasonable  inference  to  be  drawn  was  an  intent 
on the part of the perpetrators of those acts to destroy 
a substantial part of the group of ethnic Croats. After 
a  thorough  analysis  of  the  evidence  in  its  possession, 
the Court considered that the crimes committed against 
Croats  appeared  to  have  been  aimed  at  the  forced 
displacement  of  the  majority  of  the  Croat  population 
from the regions concerned, and not at its physical or 
biological destruction.
In  the  absence  of  proof  of  the  necessary  specific 
intent to destroy the protected group, in whole or in part, 
the Court found that Croatia had failed to substantiate 
its  allegation  that  genocide  or  other  breaches  of  the 
Convention had been committed. It accordingly rejected 
Croatia’s  claim  in  its  entirety  and  considered  that  it 
need not rule on other matters, such as the attribution 
of the acts found to have been committed, or succession 
to responsibility.
Regarding  Serbia’s  counter-claim,  on  the  basis 
of  the  evidence  submitted  to  it,  the  Court  concluded 
that,  during  and  after  Operation  Storm,  carried  out 
in  August  1995,  and  in  its  aftermath,  forces  of  the 
Republic of Croatia had perpetrated acts falling within 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of article 2 of the Convention, 
that is, the killing of members of the national or ethnical 
Serb group who were fleeing or had remained within 
the  areas  of  which  Croatian  forces  had  taken  control, 
and acts constituting serious bodily or mental harm to 
members of the group.
To  respond  to  the  question  of  the  existence  of  a 
genocidal intent, the Court examined in particular the 
transcript of the meeting held on the island of Brioni, 
under  the  chairmanship  of  the  then  President  of  the 
Republic of Croatia, in order to prepare Operation Storm. 
It  also  considered  the  overall  course  of  the  military 
operations  conducted  by  Croatia  during  the  period 
1992-1995. It found that the intent to destroy, in whole 
or in part, the national or ethnical group of the Croatian 
Serbs had not been proven, and noted in particular that 
while acts constituting the actus reus of genocide had 
been committed, they were not perpetrated on a scale 
such  that  they  could  only  reasonably  demonstrate  the 
existence of a genocidal intent.
The Court therefore found that neither genocide nor 
other violations of the Genocide Convention had been 
proved  and  therefore  rejected  Serbia’s  counter-claim 
in  its  entirety.  Those  are  the  main  conclusions  of  the 
judgment rendered by the Court on 3 February.
As I mentioned in the beginning of my statement, 
on 24 September the Court delivered a second judgment 
bearing  on  the  preliminary  objection  to  jurisdiction 
raised  by  the  respondent  in  the  case  Obligation  to 
Negotiate Access to the Pacific Ocean (Bolivia v. Chile). 
I would recall that, on 24 April 2013, the Government 
of  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia  filed  with  the 
Registrar  of  the  Court  an  application  introducing 
proceedings against the Republic of Chile in the matter 
of a dispute in relation to
“Chile’s  obligation  to  negotiate  in  good  faith 
and  effectively  with  Bolivia  in  order  to  reach  an 
agreement  granting  Bolivia  a  fully  sovereign 
access to the Pacific Ocean”.
Bolivia  attempted 
the  Court’s 
jurisdiction by invoking article XXXI of the American 
Treaty  on  Pacific  Settlement,  known  as  the  Pact  of 
Bogotá, which provides that
to  argue  for 
“In  conformity  with  article  36,  paragraph 
2,  of  the  Statute  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  the  High  Contracting  Parties  declare  that 
they recognize, in relation to any other American 
State, the jurisdiction of the Court as compulsory 
15-35218
5/26
A/70/PV.47 
05/11/2015
ipso  facto,  without  the  necessity  of  any  special 
agreement so long as the present Treaty is in force, 
in all disputes of a juridical nature that arise among 
them concerning:
a) the interpretation of a treaty;
b) any question of international law;
c) the existence of any fact which, if established, 
would constitute the breach of an international 
obligation;
d)  The  nature  or  extent  of  the  reparation  to 
be  made  for  the  breach  of  an  international 
obligation”.
Chile, in its preliminary objection, claimed that, by 
applying another provision of the same treaty, namely, 
article VI, the Court did not have jurisdiction to rule on 
the dispute submitted by Bolivia. In the words of that 
article,
“[T]he  aforesaid  procedures, 
furthermore, 
may  not  be  applied  to  matters  already  settled  by 
arrangement  between  the  parties,  or  by  arbitral 
award or by decision of an international court, or 
which  are  governed  by  agreements  or  treaties  in 
force  on  the  date  of  the  conclusion  of  the  present 
Treaty”.
According to Chile, the matter in dispute in the case 
was not, as the application indicated, the existence of 
an obligation to negotiate Bolivia’s sovereign access to 
the sea and Chile’s alleged breaching of that obligation. 
The respondent argued that the matters actually at issue 
in  the  present  case  were  territorial  sovereignty  and 
the character of Bolivia’s access to the Pacific Ocean, 
matters  that  had,  according  to  Chile,  been  settled  by 
arrangement  in  the  1904  peace  treaty.  According  to 
Chile, those issues are governed by the aforementioned 
treaty.
Bolivia,  in  response  to  that  objection,  stated  that 
the  dispute  was  over  the  existence  of  an  obligation 
incumbent  on  Chile  to  negotiate  in  good  faith  a 
sovereign  access  of  Bolivia  to  the  Pacific  Ocean  and 
the non-compliance with that obligation. According to 
Bolivia,  such  an  obligation  arose  from  “agreements”, 
from “diplomatic practice” and “a series of statements 
attributable  to  ...  [Chile]”,  which  go  back  over  more 
than  a  century,  and  it  existed  independently  of  the 
Treaty of Peace and Friendship of 1904 between Chile 
and  Bolivia.  Bolivia  concluded  that  article  VI  of  the 
American Treaty on Pacific Settlement did not present 
an  obstacle  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  by  virtue 
of article XXXI of that Treaty, as long as the issues in 
dispute in the present case did not constitute issues that 
had been resolved or were governed by the 1904 Peace 
Treaty within the meaning of article VI.
In its ruling, the Court began by observing that, as 
presented,  the  claim  covered  a  dispute  relating  to  the 
existence of an obligation to negotiate sovereign access 
to the sea and the non-compliance with that obligation. 
The  Court  then  considered  that,  even  if  one  could 
assume that sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean was 
Bolivia’s  ultimate  goal,  it  was  appropriate  to  make  a 
distinction  between  that  goal  and  the  dispute,  which 
were linked but separate matters. It was the dispute that 
had been submitted in the application. It appeared that 
Bolivia  did  not  request  the  Court  to  state  and  decide 
whether  it  was  entitled  to  access  to  the  sea  in  that 
dispute.
The  Court  held  in  the  case  that,  in  the  light  of 
the  subject  of  the  dispute  as  it  had  been  defined,  the 
issues under dispute between the parties had not “yet 
been  resolved  through  an  agreement  between  [them]” 
nor  were  they  “governed  by  agreements  or  treaties  in 
force” at the time of the signing of the Pact of Bogotá 
on  30  April  1948.  That  conclusion  was  based  on  the 
fact  that  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  1904  Peace 
Treaty,  invoked  by  Chile  to  support  its  plea  of  lack 
of  competence  or  jurisdiction,  do  not  explicitly  or 
implicitly deal with the issue of an obligation that would 
fall  on  Chile  to  negotiate  with  Bolivia  on  the  matter 
of  sovereign  access  to  the  Pacific  Ocean.  The  Court 
therefore concluded that article VI did not represent an 
obstacle to the jurisdiction that article ХХХI of the Pact 
of Bogotá granted to the Court. It therefore rejected the 
preliminary plea of lack of jurisdiction raised by Chile.
I  insist  on  the  fact  that  the  Court  has  not  heard 
arguments  of  the  parties  on  the  merits  of  the  case, 
that  the  ruling  that  it  delivered  was  aimed  strictly  at 
establishing whether it had jurisdiction or not to hear 
the case that had been submitted by Bolivia, and that 
nothing  in  the  judgment  of  24  September  can  and 
should  be  interpreted  as  prejudging  the  substantive 
issues raised in the claim by Bolivia.
I have now finished with the report regarding the 
two  rulings  issued  by  the  Court  over  the  past  year.  I 
would now like to comment on the other decisions taken 
by the Court during the period covered by my report.
6/26 
15-35218
05/11/2015 
(spoke in English)
I will now speak in English, as it is our practice at 
the Court, in accordance with the Statute, to work at all 
times in both French and English.
During  the  reporting  period,  the  case  Questions 
relating  to  the  Seizure  and  Detention  of  Certain 
Documents  and  Data  (Timor-Leste  v.  Australia)  was 
struck from the Court’s List by an order of 11 June 2015. 
The oral hearings on the merits, which were scheduled 
for September 2014, had first been postponed following 
the  receipt  of  a  joint  letter,  dated  1  September  2014, 
whereby  the  agents  of  Timor-Leste  and  Australia 
requested  the  Court  “to  adjourn  the  hearing  set  to 
commence  on  17  September  2014  in  order  to  enable 
[them]  to  seek  an  amicable  settlement”.  In  the  same 
letter,  the  agents  of  the  parties  had  also  raised  the 
possibility that the parties might jointly seek a change 
in  the  order  indicating  provisional  measures  that  the 
Court had adopted on 3 March 2014. On 15 March 2015, 
the  agent  of  Australia  indicated,  in  a  separate  letter, 
that  his  Government  wanted  “to  return  the  materials 
removed  from  the  premises  of  Collaery  Lawyers  on 
3 December 2013”. In order to allow for that restitution, 
the respondent State also requested, pursuant to article 
76 of the Rules of Court, a “modification of the second 
interim measure”, which the Court had indicated in its 
order of 3 March 2014 and which required Australia to 
“retain  under  seal  the  documents  and  electronic  data 
seized, and any copies thereof, until further decision of 
the Court”.
By an order rendered on 22 April 2015, the Court 
first
“[a]uthorised  the  return,  still  sealed,  to  the  firm 
Collaery  Lawyers  of  all  the  documents  and  data 
seized  on  3  December  2013  by  Australia,  and 
any  copies  thereof,  under  the  supervision  of  a 
representative  of  Timor-Leste  appointed  for  that 
purpose;”
Secondly,
“[r]equested the parties to inform it that the return 
of documents and data seized on 3 December 2013 
by  Australia,  and  any  copies  thereof,  had  been 
effected  and  on  what  date  that  return  had  taken 
place;”
Thirdly,
A/70/PV.47
“[d]ecided that, upon the return of the documents 
and data seized on 3 December 2013 by Australia, 
and  any  copies  thereof,  the  second  measure 
indicated by the Court in its order of 3 March 2014 
shall cease to have effect”.
The Court subsequently received confirmation by 
both parties that on 12 May 2015 Australia had returned 
the  documents  and  data  seized  on  3  December  2013. 
Then the agent of Timor-Leste informed the Court that 
his Government wished to discontinue the proceedings, 
stating that,
“[F]ollowing  the  return  of  the  seized  documents 
and  data  by  Australia  on  12  May  2015,  Timor-
Leste  successfully  achieved  the  purpose  of  its 
application  to  the  Court,  namely,  the  return  of 
Timor-Leste’s  rightful  property,  and 
therefore 
Australia  recognizes  that  its  actions  had  violated 
the sovereign rights of Timor-Leste”.
Australia, which had been asked to state its views 
on Timor-Leste’s request for discontinuance, informed 
the Court that it had no objection to the discontinuance 
of the proceeding as requested by Timor-Leste.
On  the  basis  of  those  elements,  in  my  capacity 
as  President  of  the  Court,  I  placed  on  record  the 
discontinuance by the applicant of the proceedings and 
directed that the case be removed from the Court’s List. 
Needless to say, the fact that that contentious procedure 
did  not  require  to  a  judgment  shows  that  the  Court 
assisted the parties in seeking a solution to the dispute 
between them. That highlights the role that the Court 
can play, even indirectly, in the peaceful settlement of 
international disputes.
Having  recalled  the  principal  decisions  handed 
down by the International Court of Justice in the course 
of the past year, I now come to the new cases submitted 
to it.
During the reporting period, a new case was placed 
on  the  List,  and  the  proceedings  have  resumed  in 
another case, with regard to the question of reparations. 
Regarding the first case, Somalia instituted proceedings 
against Kenya on 28 August 2014 relating to a dispute 
concerning maritime delimitation in the Indian Ocean. 
In its application, Somalia contends, on the one hand, 
that  both  States  disagree  about  the  location  of  the 
maritime  boundary  in  the  area  where  their  maritime 
entitlements overlap and asserts, on the other hand, that 
diplomatic negotiations, in which their respective views 
15-35218
7/26
A/70/PV.47 
05/11/2015
have  been  fully  exchanged,  have  failed  to  resolve  the 
disagreement. It then proceeds to requesting the Court
“to determine, on the basis of international law, the 
complete  course  of  the  single  maritime  boundary 
dividing  all  the  maritime  areas  appertaining  to 
Somalia and to Kenya in the Indian Ocean, including 
the continental shelf beyond 200 [nautical miles]”.
The applicant further asks the Court to determine the 
precise geographical coordinates of the single maritime 
boundary in the Indian Ocean.
In the view of the applicant, the maritime boundary 
between  the  parties  in  the  territorial  sea,  exclusive 
economic  zone  and  continental  shelf  should  be 
established  in  accordance  with,  respectively,  articles 
15, 74 and 83 of the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea. Somalia explains that, accordingly, the 
boundary line in the territorial sea
“should be a median line as specified in article 15, 
since there are no special circumstances that would 
justify departure from such a line”
and  that,  in  the  cases  of  the  exclusive  economic  zone 
and the continental shelf, the boundary
“should be established according to the three-step 
process the Court has consistently employed in its 
application of articles 74 and 83”.
Somalia adds that
“Kenya’s current position on the maritime boundary 
is that it should be a straight line emanating from 
the parties’ land boundary terminus and extending 
due east along the parallel of latitude on which the 
land boundary terminus sits, through the full extent 
of the territorial sea, exclusive economic zone and 
continental  shelf,  including  the  continental  shelf 
beyond 200 [nautical miles]”.
By an order of 16 October 2014, I fixed 13 July 2015 
as a time limit for the filing of a memorial by Somalia, 
and 27 May 2016 for the filing of a counter-memorial 
by  Kenya.  After  the  memorial  of  Somalia  was  filed 
within the set time limit, Kenya raised, on 7 October 
2015, certain preliminary objections to the jurisdiction 
of the Court and to the admissibility of the application. 
The  proceedings  on  the  merits  have  therefore  been 
suspended, and the Court fixed 5 February 2016 as the 
time limit within which Somalia may present a written 
statement with its observations and submissions on the 
preliminary objections raised by Kenya.
Furthermore,  by  an  order  dated  1  July  2015,  the 
Court  decided  to  resume  the  proceedings  in  the  case 
concerning  Armed  Activities  on  the  Territory  of  the 
Congo (Democratic Republic of the Congo v. Uganda)
with regard to the question of reparations.
It is recalled that the Court delivered its judgment 
on the merits in the case on 19 December 2005. In that 
judgment it found, on the one hand, that Uganda was 
under obligation to make reparation to the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  for  the  injury  caused  by 
Uganda’s  violation  of  the  principle  of  the  non-use  of 
force  in  international  relations  and  the  principle  of 
non-intervention,  of  obligations  incumbent  upon  it 
under international human rights law and international 
humanitarian law, and of other obligations incumbent 
upon it under international law and, on the other hand, 
that the Democratic Republic of the Congo was under 
obligation to make reparation to Uganda for the injury 
caused  by  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo’s 
violation  of  obligations  incumbent  upon  it  under  the 
1961  Vienna  Convention  on  Diplomatic  Relations.  In 
the  same  judgment,  the  Court  decided  that,  failing 
agreement  between  the  parties,  it  would  settle  the 
question  of  the  reparation  due  to  each  of  them  and 
reserved for that purpose the subsequent procedure in 
the case.
Over the years, the parties have transmitted to the 
Court certain information concerning the negotiations 
that they have held to settle the question of reparation. 
However,  on  13  May  2015,  the  Registry  of  the  Court 
received from the Democratic Republic of the Congo a 
document entitled “New application to the International 
Court  of  Justice”,  requesting  the  Court  to  decide 
the  question  of  the  reparation  due  to  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo in the case.
In its order of 1 July 2015, the Court observed that
“although  the  Parties  have  tried  to  settle  the 
question  of  reparations  directly,  they  have  been 
unable to reach an agreement in that respect”.
The Court therefore decided to resume the proceedings 
in  the  case  with  regard  to  the  question  of  reparations 
and fixed 6 January 2016 as the time limit for the filing 
by the Democratic Republic of the Congo of a memorial 
on the reparations that it considers to be owed to it by 
Uganda, and for the filing by Uganda of a memorial on 
the reparations that it considers to be owed to it by the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
8/26 
15-35218
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.47
Together with the new case Somalia v. Kenya, that 
brings to 12 the total number of cases currently on the 
Court’s docket.
(spoke in French)
It will be apparent from my report that the activities 
of the International Court of Justice remain within the 
area of the peaceful settlement of inter-State disputes. 
Having  succeeded  in  eliminating  the  judicial  backlog 
that it was facing, even as late as a few years ago, the 
Court  will  intensify  its  efforts  to  make  optimum  use 
of the modest resources at its disposal, with a view to 
achieving prompt resolution of the disputes submitted 
to it. To do so, it will not hesitate to continue its practice 
of dealing with several cases concurrently.
The  Assembly  will  certainly  have  noted,  at  the 
start of my address, that four cases are currently under 
deliberation.  That  fact  bears  witness  to  the  Court’s 
concern, as it approaches its seventieth anniversary, to 
discharge its noble and uplifting judicial mission within 
a  reasonable  time  frame.  The  Court  has  successfully 
faced  each  new  challenge  posed  by  the  complexity 
of  legal  relations  between  States.  It  will  keep  rising 
to  those  challenges  in  order  to  fulfil  its  role  as  the 
principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is 
worth recalling that it does so at a minimum cost for 
States. It trusts that, in the exercise of its functions, the 
Court can keep relying on the constant support of the 
Assembly.
I  should  like  to  conclude  by  reminding  everyone 
that the Court, which took up its office a few months 
after the entry into force of the Charter of the United 
Nations, will be marking its seventieth anniversary next 
April. The event will be celebrated in a formal session 
in The Hague in the presence of His Majesty the King 
of the Netherlands. The Court will also be organizing a 
seminar, attended by eminent jurists, on various legal 
topics directly related to its work. That event will be an 
opportunity  both  to  celebrate  the  work  accomplished 
over  the  past  seventy  years  and  to  reflect  on  the  new 
challenges facing the Court.
Once  again.  I  would  like  to  express  my  gratitude 
for  the  opportunity  to  address  the  Assembly.  I  wish 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session  every 
success.
Mr.  Gharibi  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 
the  honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement.
I  would  first  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  for  his  comprehensive 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Court  (A/70/4).  The 
Non-Aligned  Movement  attaches  great  importance  to 
agenda item 75, “Report of the International Court of 
Justice”, and takes note of the account contained in the 
report on the activities of the Court between 1 August 
2014  to  31  July  2015,  as  requested  by  the  decision  of 
the Assembly last year. I would also like to thank the 
President of the Court for his statement in presenting 
his report to the General Assembly today.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
reaffirms  and 
underscores  its  principled  positions  concerning  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes and the non-use or threat 
of use of force. The International Court of Justice plays 
a  significant  role  in  promoting  and  encouraging  the 
settlement of international disputes by peaceful means, 
as reflected in the Charter of the United Nations, and 
does so in such a manner that international peace and 
security and justice are not endangered.
Mr. Gumende (Mozambique), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
The  Movement  endeavours  to  generate  further 
progress in the promotion of full respect for international 
law and, in that regard, commends the role of the Court 
in  promoting  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international 
disputes, in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
the Charter of the United Nations and the Statute of the 
Court, in particular Articles 33 and 94 of the Charter.
In regard to the advisory opinions of the Court, we 
note the fact that the Security Council has not sought 
any  advisory  opinion  from  the  Court  since  1970,  and 
the  Movement  urges  the  Security  Council  to  make 
greater  use  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  the 
principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  as  a 
source of advisory opinions and interpretations of the 
relevant norms of international law, as well as opinions 
on controversial issues. It further requests the Council 
to use the Court as a source of interpretations relating 
to  relevant  international  law  issues,  and  also  urges  it 
to consider having Council decisions reviewed by the 
Court, with a view to ensuring their adherence to the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international  law. 
The  Movement  also  invites  the  General  Assembly, 
other bodies of the United Nations and the specialized 
agencies  so  authorized  to  request  advisory  opinions 
from  the  International  Court  of  Justice  on  legal 
questions arising within the scope of their activities.
15-35218
9/26
A/70/PV.47 
05/11/2015
reaffirms 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
the 
importance  of  the  unanimous  nature  of  the  Court’s 
advisory  opinion  issued  on  8  July  1996,  entitled  the 
“Legality  of  the  Threat  or  Use  of  Nuclear  Weapons”. 
On  that  issue,  the  Court  concluded  that  an  obligation 
exists to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion 
negotiations  leading  to  nuclear  disarmament  in  all  its 
aspects under strict and effective international control.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  continues  to  call  on 
Israel, the occupying Power, to fully respect the 9 July 
2004  advisory  opinion  of  the  Court  entitled  “Legal 
Consequences  of  the  Construction  of  a  Wall  in  the 
Occupied  Palestinian  Territory”,  and  calls  upon  all 
States  to  respect  and  ensure  respect  of  the  provisions 
contained therein aimed at ending the Israeli occupation 
that  began  in  1967  and  establishing  an  independent 
State of Palestine with East Jerusalem as its capital.
Mr. Mamabolo (South Africa): My delegation has 
the honour to speak on behalf of the Group of African 
States.  The  African  Group  associates  itself  with  the 
statement  just  delivered  by  the  representative  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement.
At the outset, the African Group would like to thank 
the President of the International Court of Justice, Judge 
Ronny Abraham, for his presentation and also for the 
report of the Court on its work (A/70/4). The African 
Group continues to consider the International Court of 
Justice as the pre-eminent mechanism for the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  at  the  international  level.  It 
should  be  kept  in  mind  that  the  Court,  as  a  court  of 
justice  and,  moreover,  the  principal  judicial  organ  of 
the United Nations, occupies a special position.
Everything  that  the  Court  does  is  aimed  at 
promoting the rule of law. The World Court hands down 
judgments  and  advisory  opinions  in  accordance  with 
its Statute, which is an integral part of the Charter of 
the United Nations, and thus contributes to promoting 
and  clarifying  international  law.  The  African  Group 
welcomes  the  reaffirmed  confidence  that  States  have 
shown in the Court’s ability to resolve their disputes. 
In particular, we are pleased to see that States continue 
to refer disputes to the Court. We commend States for 
no longer limiting their referral of cases to matters of 
little  political  significance  and  for  referring  disputes 
involving weighty political issues. The number of cases 
currently pending on the Court’s docket is a reflection 
of the esteem in which the States hold the International 
Court of Justice.
Notwithstanding  the  proliferation  of  international 
judicial  dispute-settlement  mechanisms  of  both  a 
specialized and a regional nature, the Court continues 
to attract a wide range of cases covering many areas. 
While the Court’s determination that the requirement to 
cooperate is based principally on treaty obligations, it 
also clearly draws upon general principles, particularly 
in making the link between procedural and substantive 
obligations. The principle of prevention, enunciated in 
an  earlier  Court  decision,  notably  the  Corfu  Channel
case and the advisory opinion concerning the Legality 
of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons, is drawn upon 
significantly by the Court. As such, the African Group 
reaffirms  the  importance  of  the  unanimous  Court 
advisory opinion issued on 8 July 1996 concerning the 
Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons. In that 
decision, the International Court of Justice concluded 
that there exists an obligation to pursue in good faith 
and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear 
disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective 
international  control.  In  that  respect,  it  is  interesting 
to  note  that  the  current  list  of  cases  before  the  Court 
includes  cases  on  obligations  concerning  negotiations 
relating to the cessation of the nuclear arms race and to 
nuclear disarmament. 
By an order dated 19 July 2015, the Court fixed the 
time limit for the filing by the Republic of the Marshall 
Islands  of  a  written  statement  of  its  observations  and 
submissions on the preliminary objections raised by the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
in  the  case.  The  Marshall  Islands  alleges  breaches  of 
article  VI  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  by  the  United  Kingdom. 
Article VI of the NPT provides that 
“[e]ach of the Parties to the Treaty undertakes 
to  pursue  negotiations  in  good  faith  on  effective 
measures relating to cessation of the nuclear arms 
race at an early date and to nuclear disarmament, and 
on a treaty on general and complete disarmament 
under strict and effective international control.”
To  that  end,  the  Marshall  Islands  contends  that  the 
United Kingdom has breached, and continues to breach, 
its legal duty to perform its obligations under the NPT 
and customary international law in good faith.
Once  again,  by  an  order  dated  9  July  2015,  the 
Court extended from 17 July 2015 to 1 December 2015 
10/26 
15-35218
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.47
the  time  limit  for  the  filing  of  the  counter-memorial 
of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan  on  the  questions 
of  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  and  the  admissibility 
of  its  application  in  the  case.  We  eagerly  await  those 
judgments,  with  the  hope  that  they  will  build  on  the 
already rich wealth of jurisprudence in this area, and in 
international law in general.
The  importance  of  advisory  opinions  on  legal 
questions referred to the International Court of Justice 
cannot  be  overstated  in  the  pursuit  of  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes in accordance with the Charter of 
the United Nations. It is therefore rather disappointing 
that  during  the  period  under  review,  no  requests  for 
advisory opinions were made.
Ms.  Cooper  (Australia):  On  behalf  of  Canada, 
Australia  and  New  Zealand  (CANZ),  I  would  like 
to  thank  the  President  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  for  his  informative 
report (A/70/4) on the work of the Court over the past 
year. I would also like to thank former President Judge 
Tomka for his important contribution during his term 
as President.
The International Court of Justice plays a critical 
role  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  between 
States and in providing advisory opinions on emerging 
or  controversial  issues  in  international  law.  CANZ 
countries  continue  to  support  the  International  Court 
of Justice as the principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations. The Court’s demanding caseload, dealing with 
a variety of subject matters, serves to demonstrate its 
wide appeal and highlights the important role it plays 
in  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law.  Looking  at  the 
Court’s work over the past year, cases before the Court 
continued to raise issues at the forefront of international 
law. We understand that the agenda of the Court in the 
year ahead will remain a busy one.
International  law  and  the  rule  of  law  are  the 
foundations of the international system. As States that 
accept  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  and 
have been parties to proceedings before it, the CANZ 
countries  are  convinced  that  greater  acceptance  of 
the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  contributes 
to  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  internationally  by 
broadening the options available to States to ensure the 
peaceful settlement of disputes. It also helps the Court 
to  fulfil  its  role  more  effectively  by  permitting  it  to 
focus  on  the  substance  of  disputes  more  quickly.  We 
continue to urge Member States that have not done so 
to deposit with the Secretary-General a declaration of 
acceptance of the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction.
Finally,  the  CANZ  group  would  like  to  express 
its appreciation to Judge Sepúlveda Amor for his vital 
contribution  to  the  development  of  international  law 
through his work as Judge and Vice-President, and to 
wish him well in his future endeavours. We would also 
like  to  thank  and  acknowledge  Judge  Keith  of  New 
Zealand for his substantial contribution to the Court’s 
work. Similarly, we also would like to recognize Judge 
Skotnikov  for  his  work  as  Judge  on  the  Court.  The 
CANZ  group  also  congratulates  Judges  Crawford, 
Gevorgian  and  Robinson  on  their  elections  to  the 
Court,  and  Judges  Bennouna  and  Donoghue  for  their 
re-elections to the Court.
We look forward to continuing to support the Court 
in its central contribution to the peaceful settlement of 
disputes.
Mrs.  Sule  (India):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to  thank  Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  for  his  comprehensive 
report  (A/70/4)  on  the  judicial  activities  of  the  Court 
for  the  period  from  August  2014  to  July  2015.  I  also 
thank him and Vice-President Judge Abdulqawi Ahmed 
Yusuf for guiding the work of the Court.
As  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations, the Court is poised to celebrate its seventieth 
anniversary  in  April  next  year.  The  International 
Court  of  Justice  is  entrusted  with  the  task  of  the 
peaceful resolution of disputes between States, which 
is  fundamental  for  fulfilment  of  one  of  the  purposes 
of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  We  acknowledge 
that  the  Court  has  fulfilled  that  task  admirably  since 
its  establishment  and  has  acquired  a  well-deserved 
reputation as an impartial institution, maintaining the 
highest legal standards in accordance with its mandate 
under the Charter of the United Nations, of which the 
Statute of the Court is an integral part.
One of the primary goals of the United Nations, as 
stated in the Preamble of the United Nations Charter, 
is  to  establish  conditions  under  which  justice  and 
respect for international obligations can be maintained. 
The  International  Court  of  Justice,  as  the  only  Court 
with general international law jurisdiction, is uniquely 
placed to help achieve that goal.
15-35218
11/26
A/70/PV.47 
05/11/2015
The report of the Court illustrates the importance 
States attach to the Court and the confidence they place 
in it. The importance of the Court is also evident from 
the number, nature and variety of cases that the Court 
deals with and, in doing so, its ability to deal with the 
complex aspects of public international law.
The 
judgments  delivered  by 
the  Court  have 
played  an  important  role  in  the  interpretation  and 
clarification  of  the  rules  of  international  law,  as  well 
as in the progressive development and codification of 
international  law.  In  the  performance  of  its  judicial 
functions,  the  Court  has  remained  highly  sensitive  to 
the  political  realities  and  sentiments  of  States,  while 
acting in accordance with the provisions of the United 
Nations  Charter,  its  own  Statute  and  other  applicable 
rules of international law.
During  the  judicial  year  2014-2015,  the  Court 
delivered  a  judgment,  held  public  hearings  in  two 
cases  and  handed  down  nine  orders.  The  number  of 
contentious  cases  on  the  Court’s  docket  stands  at  12. 
The universality of the Court is evident from the fact 
that  States  from  across  all  the  continents  submitted 
cases to the Court for adjudication.
The cases before the Court involve a wide variety 
of  subject  matter,  such  as  territorial  and  maritime 
disputes, environmental damage and the conservation 
of  living  resources,  violations  of  territorial  integrity, 
violations of international humanitarian law and human 
rights,  genocide,  the  interpretation  and  application 
of  international  conventions  and  treaties  and  the 
interpretation of the Court’s own judgments.
The Court’s second function is to provide advisory 
opinions on legal questions referred to it by the organs of 
the United Nations and specialized agencies. Although 
no  request  for  its  advisory  opinion  was  made  during 
the past judicial year, that function of the Court adds to 
its important role of clarifying key international legal 
issues. The report of the Court rightly points out that 
“everything the Court does is aimed at promoting the 
rule of law” (A/70/4, para. 23), in particular through its 
judgments and advisory opinions.
It  is  worth  mentioning  that  the  Court  ensures  the 
greatest  possible  global  awareness  of  its  decisions 
through  its  publications,  multimedia  offerings  and 
website,  which  now  features 
the  Court’s  entire 
jurisprudence,  as  well  as  that  of  its  predecessor,  the 
Permanent  Court  of  International  Justice.  Those 
sources provide useful information for States wishing 
to submit a potential dispute to the Court.
We  share  the  concern  of  the  Court  concerning 
problems relating to a health risk due to the presence of 
asbestos in the Peace Palace, and we support all efforts 
required to deal with it.
Finally, India wishes to reaffirm its strong support 
to  the  Court  and  to  acknowledge  the  importance  that 
the international community attaches to the work of the 
Court.
Mr. Xu Hong (China) (spoke in Chinese): It gives 
me great pleasure to speak on this agenda item on the 
report of the International Court of Justice (A/70/4) at 
the  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  At  the 
outset, on behalf of the Chinese delegation, please allow 
me to thank President Abraham for his statement. My 
thanks also go to all the judges and staff of the Court 
for their hard work over the past year.
This  year  marks  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  United  Nations.  The  Court’s  history  spans  nearly 
70 years. The judicial activities of the Court represent 
an  important  means  in  peacefully  settling  disputes. 
That practice, dating back nearly 70 years, has proved 
that the Court, as one of the six major organs and the 
principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  plays 
an  indispensable  role  in  fulfilling  the  fundamental 
purpose  of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  maintaining 
international peace and security. China appreciates the 
work of and contribution by the Court in that regard.
During  its  nearly  70-year  history,  the  Court  has 
delivered 120 verdicts and issued 27 advisory opinions 
on a wide range of important issues, such as the non-use 
of force, non-interference in internal affairs, diplomatic 
and  consular  relations  and  decolonization.  In  those 
judicial  activities,  the  Court  has  applied,  interpreted, 
clarified  or  confirmed  the  relevant  principles  of 
international  law  and  the  fundamental  norms  of 
international  relations,  thereby  contributing  to  the 
further clarification of norms governing State-to-State 
relations. Like the rest of the international community, 
China  has  always  closely  followed 
judicial 
activities  of  the  Court  and  attaches  great  importance 
to  the  significant  role  of  the  Court  in  promoting  the 
development of international law. 
the 
The Chinese delegation has also noted in the reports 
submitted to the General Assembly in recent years that 
the Court has repeatedly referred to the difficulties it 
12/26 
15-35218
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.47
faces  in  terms  of  human  and  financial  resources.  My 
delegation  believes  it  critical  that  the  Court  should 
have  resources  that  are  commensurate  with  its  status 
and role within the United Nations framework, which 
is essential to ensuring its effective operation and high-
quality judicial activities.
As  an  active  advocate  for  the  peaceful  settlement 
of disputes, China supports dispute settlement through 
such  appropriate  means  as  negotiations,  dialogue  and 
consultations.  The  selection  and  application  of  the 
means  of  dispute  settlement  should  be  made  in  strict 
accordance with the principle of sovereign equality and 
in  full  respect  of  the  wishes  of  the  States  concerned. 
China  is  consistently  committed  to  settling  disputes 
through  friendly  consultations  and,  as  always,  will 
support  the  Court  in  fulfilling  its  mandate. In  recent 
years,  the  workload  of  the  Court  has  been  on  the 
rise — a fact that reflects both the important role played 
by the Court in the peaceful settlement of international 
disputes and the trust in and expectation of impartiality 
from  the  Court  on  the  part  of  the  international 
community,  especially  the  parties  to  a  dispute.  China 
hopes that the Court will continue to faithfully perform 
its  judicial  function  in  accordance  with  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Statute  of  the  Court, 
seek peaceful settlement of international disputes and 
make  further  contributions  to  the  maintenance  of  the 
international order and system, with the United Nations 
as  the  anchor  and  the  defence  of  the  authority  of  the 
Charter and fundamental norms of international law.
Mr.  Argüello  González  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  his 
report (A/70/4) and introductory statement.
Nicaragua associates itself with the statement made 
by the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
As is clear from the report before us, the number 
of  cases  before  the  International  Court  of  Justice  is 
increasing every year, thereby reflecting the confidence 
that  Member  States  place  in  the  Court,  the  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  That  trust  has 
been  a  constant  factor  notwithstanding  the  growing 
number of international tribunals established over the 
past  decades,  and  reaffirms  the  flagship  role  played 
by  the  Court  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes. 
It  is  for  those  reasons  that  Nicaragua  is  pleased  that, 
since  the  last  reporting  period,  two  additional  States 
have joined in recognizing the compulsory jurisdiction 
of  the  Court,  in  accordance  with  the  Statute  of  the 
Court. However, it also notes that 72 such declarations 
represent a relatively small number as compared with 
the 193 States Members of the Organization.
In  its  own  particular  case,  Nicaragua,  a  small 
developing  country 
that  depends  on  respect  for 
international  law  to  protect  its  national  interests,  has 
turned  to  the  Court  on  several  occasions.  It  has  also 
accepted the jurisdiction of the Court whenever it has 
been a respondent and, while it does have a reservation, 
has never invoked that reservation and is currently in 
the process of withdrawing it.
During  2015,  Nicaragua  has  taken  part  in  oral 
hearings in four separate cases. The Court has begun its 
deliberation on the merits of two joined cases involving 
disputes  with  the  Republic  of  Costa  Rica  —  Certain 
Activities  carried  out  by  Nicaragua  in  the  Border 
Area  (Costa  Rica  v.  Nicaragua)  and  Construction 
of  a  Road  in  Costa  Rica  along  the  San  Juan  River 
(Nicaragua v. Costa Rica) — and in two other cases in 
deliberation in which preliminary objections have been 
raised by Colombia concerning the jurisdiction of the 
Court — Question of the Delimitation of the Continental 
Shelf  between  Nicaragua  and  Colombia  beyond  200 
nautical miles from the Nicaraguan Coast (Nicaragua 
v. Colombia) and Alleged Violations of Sovereign Rights 
and Maritime Spaces in the Caribbean Sea (Nicaragua 
v. Colombia).
Nicaragua takes this opportunity to reiterate that it 
has  faithfully  fulfilled  its  international  obligations  in 
every case to which it has been party, and that it expects 
reciprocity in the fulfilment of the obligation to abide 
by the judgments of the International Court of Justice 
in  cases  to  which  it  is  party,  while  stressing  that  the 
existence of a dispute does not justify the use of force 
or  threat  of  force  by  any  of  the  States  parties  to  the 
dispute. It is also important to note that, in contentious 
proceedings  registered  in  the  Central  Registry  of 
the  Court,  five  States  in  the  Americas  —  all  Latin 
American countries — are parties to these proceedings, 
which  is  the  highest  number  of  participants  from  the 
same continent.
In terms of resources, the first thing to note is that 
the  Court  has  the  smallest  budget  of  all  the  principal 
organs of the United Nations system, and yet has been 
the most effective in preventing wars. It is also the most 
cost-effective body of the international judicial system. 
15-35218
13/26
A/70/PV.47 
05/11/2015
Its  costs  have  remained  low  despite  its  increased 
workload, as reflected in both the number of pending 
cases — 12 cases at the moment —and the increasing 
substantive  complexity  of  the  cases  before  the  Court, 
which require highly specialized technical advice.
Similarly,  Nicaragua  notes  with  satisfaction  the 
new  technical  facilities  available  to  parties  for  oral 
hearings  and  the  constant  support  provided  by  the 
Secretariat  for  that  purpose.  Nicaragua,  as  a  State 
party in several cases, knows at first hand the financial 
challenges that sometimes require the Court to charge 
the  parties  for  the  costs  of  certain  procedures,  such 
as  translations,  which  is  onerous  for  less  affluent 
countries.  Accordingly,  Nicaragua  urges  Member 
States  to  consider  those  aspects  in  their  discussions 
in the Fifth Committee and to provide this main organ 
with  the  financial  and  technical  support  it  needs  to 
resolve the complex disputes that are submitted to it.
Likewise,  Member  States  are  urged  to  contribute 
to the Secretary-General’s Trust Fund to Assist States 
in the Settlement of Disputes through the International 
Court  of  Justice.  The  development  and  strengthening 
of friendly relations among States are enhanced when 
disputes  are  permanently  resolved  by  the  means 
provided by international law, of which the Court, the 
Organization’s principal judiciary organ, is one of the 
most respected institutions.
Finally, it is worth noting, as the President of the 
Court has said in other forums, that the Assembly can 
make better use of its powers to request advisory opinions 
of the  Court,  and  thereby support the development of 
international law and strengthen respect for the rule of 
law internationally.
We again welcome the submission of the report of 
the Court and look forward to actively participating in 
the  celebrations  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
Court,  scheduled  for  April  2016.  Those  celebrations 
will provide a unique opportunity for States that have 
not  yet  done  so  to  accept  the  compulsory  jurisdiction 
of  the  Court  under  the  Statute  or  withdraw  their 
reservations.  The  celebrations  will  be  even  more 
meaningful if a record number of countries accept the 
Court’s compulsory jurisdiction.
Mr. Galea (Romania) (spoke in French): I wish to 
express  my  most  sincere  congratulations  to  President 
Ronny  Abraham  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  as  well  as  to  express 
my country‘s deep appreciation for the report (A/70/4) 
of the Court. As is the case every year, it is thorough, 
comprehensive and substantive.
In the period covered by the report, we witnessed an 
expansion in the Court’s substantive jurisdiction and an 
increase in the complexity of the matters before it. On 
3 February 2015, the Court delivered its judgment in the 
case Application of the Convention on the Prevention 
and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide (Croatia v. 
Serbia).  The  judgment  gave  the  Court  an  opportunity 
to  provide  a  clarification  of  the  concept  of  genocide, 
citing  the  preparatory  work  of  the  Convention  to 
emphasize the distinction between “physical” genocide 
and  “cultural”  genocide.  The  decision  also  provides 
an interesting view of the application of logic as well 
as  the  presumption  of  non-retroactivity,  as  set  forth 
in article 28 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of 
Treaties. While that presumption applies to substantive 
obligations, 
to  prevent 
genocide, this logical obstacle does not exist in relation 
to the treaty obligation to punish acts perpetrated before 
the treaty entered into force.
the  obligation 
including 
The  case  concerning  Questions  relating  to  the 
Seizure  and  Detention  of  Certain  Documents  and 
Data  (Timor-Leste  v.  Australia)  was  removed  from 
the  Court’s  list,  following  the  applicant’s  withdrawal 
when the parties reached an amicable settlement. The 
case  had  offered  the  Court  a  new  area  to  explore  in 
the  evolution  of  contemporary  international  relations. 
Meanwhile,  in  its  judgment  of  24  September  2015 
on  the  preliminary  objections  in  the  case  concerning 
Obligation  to  Negotiate  Access  to  the  Pacific  Ocean 
(Bolivia  v.  Chile),  the  Court  recalled  the  reference 
points  in  relation  to  the  concept  of  the  object  of  a 
dispute, whose definition is given by the Court itself. 
The broad spectrum of matters on the Court’s docket at 
present,  including  maritime  delimitations  and  nuclear 
disarmament,  demonstrates  the  increased  interest  of 
States in the settlement of disputes through the Court.
Romania strongly supports the International Court 
of  Justice.  Our  country  is  convinced  that  the  Court 
has  an  essential  role  to  play  in  international  relations 
for  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  internationally 
and to ensure the supremacy of international law. For 
Romania,  international  law  represents  something  of 
value for the international community, and it is a pillar 
of our foreign policy.
The  year  2015  has  marked  a  milestone  for  my 
country in its relationship with the International Court 
14/26 
15-35218
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.47
of Justice. After actively participating in the life of the 
Court,  including  in  the  contentious  case  concerning 
Maritime  Delimitation  in  the  Black  Sea  (Romania 
v.  Ukraine),  Romania  deposited  with  the  Secretary-
General,  on  23  June  2015,  its  declaration  accepting 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court 
of Justice, thus becoming the seventy-second State to 
accept that obligation.That decision was the end point 
of a complex process that started in 2012. The Ministry 
for Foreign Affairs led a complex public and academic 
debate,  while  a  detailed  analysis  of  the  consequences 
of  such  a  declaration  was  undertaken.  The  public 
debate  showed  broad  support  for  the  initiative  among 
the political forces, authorities, experts in international 
public law and the general public.
Following the public and inter-institutional debate, 
some reservations or limitations were proposed.
In order to confer greater domestic legitimacy on 
that  decision,  a  law  was  adopted  by  Parliament  and 
signed by the President of Romania. The acceptance of 
compulsory jurisdiction confirms Romania’s full trust 
in the International Court of Justice and its efforts to 
strengthen  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level. 
The declaration is proof that my country is committed 
to conducting its foreign relations in accordance with 
international  law  and  that  it  is  prepared  to  settle  any 
disputes in a peaceful manner in accordance with the 
law.
Allow me to conclude by expressing my belief that 
the  Court  will  continue  to  develop  its  activity  and  to 
represent  the  highest  standard  of  professionalism  and 
impartiality.
Ms. Butts (United States of America): The United 
States  would  like  to  congratulate  President  Abraham 
on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  International 
Court of Justice earlier this year. We also congratulate 
Judges  Joan  Donoghue  and  Mohamed  Bennouna  on 
their  re-elections,  and  Judges  James  Crawford,  Kirill 
Gevorgian  and  Patrick  Robinson  on  their  elections  as 
new  members  of  the  Court.  We  would  like  to  thank 
President Abraham for his leadership of the Court over 
much of the past year and for his recent report (A/70/4) 
regarding  the  activities  of  the  Court  between  August 
2014 and July 2015.
In  reviewing  the  report,  we  are  again  struck  by 
how productive the Court has continued to be over the 
course  of  a  year.  The  Court  issued  one  judgment  and 
nine  orders  and  held  public  hearings  in  two  cases.  In 
addition,  the  Court  remained  seized  of  a  number  of 
other  matters,  with  a  total  of  12  cases  on  its  list.  We 
commend  the  Court’s  increasing  ability  to  respond 
promptly  and  efficiently  to  the  requests  put  before  it, 
particularly in the light of its growing caseload as well 
as the growing factual and legal complexity of its cases, 
and we appreciate that the Court has set a particularly 
demanding  schedule  of  hearings  and  deliberations 
for  itself.  We  believe  those  efforts  will  continue  to 
bolster  confidence  in  the  Court  and  often  provide 
States  with  an  opportunity  to  resolve  disputes  before 
they  escalate.  This  year,  as  in  years  past,  the  Court 
has taken up a considerable range of topics, including 
genocide, boundary disputes, the use of force and the 
interpretation  of  international  agreements.  It  is  as  a 
result of such efforts that we continue to see States turn 
to the Court to resolve their disputes peacefully.
law  professors,  students, 
We  also  wish  to  remark  on  the  Court’s  continued 
public  outreach  to  educate  key  sectors  of  society, 
including 
judicial  and 
Government officials and the general public, to increase 
understanding of the Court and its work. We appreciate 
the  efforts  that  the  Court  has  made  to  increase 
accessibility and transparency, including by making its 
recordings available to watch live on demand on United 
Nations Web TV. All those efforts complement United 
Nations efforts to promote the rule of law globally and 
to promote better public understanding of international 
law.
As  we  approach  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  Court’s  inaugural  session  at  the  Peace  Palace,  we 
have  a  unique  opportunity  to  reflect  on  the  Court’s 
important  role  and  on  the  impressive  jurisprudence 
it  has  developed.  The  International  Court  of  Justice 
was established under Article 92 of the Charter of the 
United  Nations  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the 
Organization and, in its nearly seven decades of work 
since  then,  it  has  contributed  immeasurably  to  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes and to the development 
and understanding of international law. The Preamble 
to  the  Charter  underscores  the  determination  of  its 
drafters to establish the conditions under which justice 
and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and 
other  sources  of  international  law  can  be  maintained. 
That essential goal lies at the core of the Charter system, 
and in particular of the Court.
The  United  States  is  pleased  to  join  others  today 
in  celebrating  and  applauding  nearly  70  years  of  the 
Court’s work.
15-35218
15/26
A/70/PV.47 
05/11/2015
Mr. Alday González (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
The  delegation  of  Mexico  would  like  to  express  its 
deep appreciation to the International Court of Justice 
for its arduous work over the past year, which was just 
described  by  its  President,  Judge  Ronny  Abraham. 
At  the  same  time,  Mexico  welcomes  the  Court’s 
renewal  during  the  reporting  period,  which  reaffirms 
its  universal  character  and  ensures  that  its  decisions 
will be adopted with respect for the principal judicial 
systems  and  the  multiplicity  of  regional  perspectives 
and  realities.  All  of  that  will  help  to  ensure  that  the 
highest  international  judicial  organ  will  continue  the 
excellent work that has characterized it during its first 
70 years.
Mexico  would  like  to  recognize  the  judges,  who 
performed  their  task  in  the  most  exemplary  manner, 
thereby creating an enduring legacy for the Court and 
for international justice. We would like to acknowledge 
in  particular  the  work  of  Judges  Leonid  Skotnikov, 
Kenneth  Keith  and  Bernardo  Sepúlveda  Amor.  The 
dedication and knowledge that Judge Sepúlveda Amor 
brought  to  his  service  with  the  Court  are  a  source  of 
great pride for Mexico.
The  Court’s  intense  activity  during  recent  years 
bears  out  the  trust  that  the  international  community 
has placed in it as the ideal mechanism for the peaceful 
settlement of disputes. The consolidation of the Court 
is  evident  from  its  universal  mission,  with  States 
employing  the  full  range  of  procedural  measures 
provided for in its Statute, and from the breadth of the 
substantive issues represented in the disputes that have 
been brought before it. There can be no doubt that the 
International Court of Justice plays a crucial role in the 
promotion  and  applicability  of  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international  level.  The  existence  of  efficient  judicial 
mechanisms for the peaceful resolution of any disputes 
that  may  arise  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of 
international  law  is  essential  to  the  very  concept  of 
the rule of law. That leads to two fundamental points: 
the  need  for  more  States  to  accept  the  compulsory 
jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  as 
provided for by Article 36, paragraph 2, of its Statute, 
and  the  need  for  full  compliance  with  the  judgments 
issued by the Court.
Mexico would like to highlight the great legal value 
of the Court’s judgments, both for the parties to a case 
and for the international community as a whole, since 
jurisprudence is an auxiliary source of key importance 
in determining the validity and content of norms. The 
Court has an essential role to play in the development 
of international law, especially as the leading voice in 
dialogue  with  other  legal  organs,  a  role  that  enriches 
international law and helps prevent its fragmentation.
From the point of view of procedural law, the work 
of  the  Court  has  become  more  complicated  because 
States  now  increasingly  use  all  the  alternatives  and 
procedures  provided  for  in  the  Statute,  such  as  the 
request for provisional measures and the interpretation 
of judgments whose determination by the Court are of 
primary importance to avoid the escalation of disputes 
or  the  emergence  of  new  ones.  In  addition,  from  the 
perspective of substantive law, the International Court 
of  Justice  acts  to  settle  disputes  that  arise  on  very 
diverse  issues  and  reflect  its  genuinely  broad-based 
character. In addition to territorial conflicts and those 
pertaining  to  maritime  boundaries,  the  Court  hears 
questions related to the treatment of nationals by other 
States,  charges  of  massive  violations  of  human  rights 
or of State responsibility for international crimes, and 
issues relating to the environment and the management 
of shared natural resources, among others.
In  the  period  covered  by  the  report,  the  Court 
resolved  an  issue  that  was  of  great  legal  complexity 
and  political  sensitivity.  We  hope  that  it  will  help  to 
strengthen  peace  in  the  region  involved.  The  case 
is  important  because  of  the  precedent  that  it  sets  for 
jurisdictional limitations, in accordance with the scope 
of  the  optional  clause  based  on  which  a  dispute  is 
submitted, the interpretation of the validity of treaties, 
in  particular  the  presumption  against  the  retroactive 
application  of  treaties,  the  juridical  scope  in  the  case 
of States’ succession and, of course, the interpretation 
of the substantive provisions of the Convention on the 
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide.
Mexico wishes to thank the General Assembly for 
its  willingness  to  authorize  new  deadlines  and  other 
budgetary  requests  for  the  Court  and  calls  for  it  to 
continue  providing  the  tools  necessary  to  ensure  that 
the Court functions at optimal capacity as the principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  Organization.  In  addition  to  the 
administrative improvements at the Court itself, there 
is  no  doubt  that  addressing  the  prolonged  delays  that 
existed  before  has  led  to  the  commitment  by  States 
to  providing  increased  human  resources.  In  that 
regard,  we  wish  to  call  for  assurances  that  the  Court 
has  sufficient  resources  for  the  celebration  of  its 
seventieth anniversary, in 2016. Mexico also wishes to 
express its sincere congratulations to the Registrar of 
16/26 
15-35218
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.47
the  Court,  Philippe  Couvreur,  on  his  recent  election, 
which  is  undoubtedly  because  of  his  outstanding 
performance in all three areas — legal, diplomatic and 
administrative — of his work.
like 
I  would 
to  conclude  my  statement  by 
acknowledging  the  efforts  of  the  International  Court 
of Justice to provide as much transparency as possible 
in its work, particularly the considerable effort it made 
to improve its website. Through the site, it is possible 
to  consult  not  only  judgments  and  advisory  opinions 
but  all  the  documents  of  the  parties.  That  initiative 
is  most  valuable  to  all  States  and  all  those  studying 
international law.
Mr. Plasai (Thailand): My delegation would like to 
express its appreciation to Judge Ronny Abraham for his 
able leadership as President of the International Court 
of Justice and for his comprehensive report (A/70/4) on 
the activities of the Court over the past year.
The  Court  has  continued  to  be  very  active.  For 
the  present  reporting  period,  the  Court  rendered  one 
judgment, handed down nine orders, held several public 
hearings and was seized of new contentious cases. The 
12 cases that remain on the Court’s docket cover a wide 
range of issues and involve States from every continent. 
We appreciate the remarkable efforts made by the Court 
in efficiently managing these cases, which involve, in 
procedural  terms,  many  phases  and,  in  substantive 
terms, growing factual and legal complexity.
The  latest  judgment  of  the  Court,  in  the  case 
Application  of  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and 
Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide  (Croatia  v. 
Serbia), rendered on 3 February, is a true milestone in 
the development of international human rights law and 
international humanitarian law. Among other things, it 
provides  useful  clarification  of  the  terms  of  article  2 
of  the  Convention,  in  particular  regarding  actus  reus 
and dolus specialis of the crime of genocide. We also 
commend  the  Court’s  rigorous  process  in  reaching 
decisions,  which  contributes  to  increasing  confidence 
in the Court and in the international dispute settlement 
system in general. As such, the Court has played a key 
role  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  inter-State  disputes 
and  in  strengthening  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  at 
the  international  level,  which  are  important  to  the 
maintenance of international peace and security.
(spoke in French)
As  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations, the Court plays a unique role in the progressive 
development  of  international  law.  Over  the  years, 
its  impressive  case  law  has  brought  greater  clarity 
in  different  areas  of  international  law.  Thailand  has 
followed with great interest the Court’s case law in the 
areas of border delimitation, maritime boundaries and 
the  interpretation  of  treaties  and  judgements,  just  to 
name a few. This year, we noted that a new case involving 
economic rights was presented to the Court, which will 
further diversify the issues before it and underscore its 
role as a court of general jurisdiction. We look forward 
to  commemorating  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
International Court of Justice, in April 2016. It will be 
an excellent opportunity to celebrate and reflect on the 
work done by the Court to date.
In  conclusion,  we  welcome  efforts  to  promote 
transparency in the conduct of the work of the Court. 
For  years  the  Court  has  successfully  used  technology 
to  facilitate  access 
its 
procedures, rulings and judgments through recordings 
that  are  broadcast  live  or  on  demand  and  online  data 
on case documentation. That has helped to significantly 
increase  understanding  of  international  law  and  the 
work of the Court.
information  regarding 
to 
Let  me  conclude  by  expressing  our  gratitude  to 
all  the  Judges,  the  Registrar  and  the  Registry  staff 
for  their  dedication  to  the  work  of  the  Court  and  the 
maintenance of peace, justice and the rule of law within 
the international community.
Mr.  Saeed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  Sudan 
associates  itself  with  the  statements  made  by  the 
representative  of  Iran,  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement, and the representative of South Africa, on 
behalf of the African Group.
My  delegation  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  (A/70/327)  and  the  report  of  the 
International Court of Justice (A/70/4). We would also 
like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Court,  Mr.  Ronny 
Abraham,  for  presenting  the  report  on  the  activities 
of  the  Court  during  the  most  recent  reporting  period. 
Considering  that  the  International  Court  of  Justice  is 
the principal judicial organ of the United Nations, my 
delegation also wishes to thank the Court for the role it 
plays, as stipulated by the Charter of the United Nations, 
in enhancing the rule of law at the international level 
through  its  judgments  and  advisory  opinions  and  its 
15-35218
17/26
A/70/PV.47 
05/11/2015
contribution  to  reinforcing  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.
The role of the International Court of Justice is of 
crucial importance, and it has a very heavy workload. 
That requires Member States to provide further political 
support and additional financial resources so that it can 
fulfil its mandate. The annual report is an opportunity 
for  the  General  Assembly  to  reiterate  the  importance 
of  the  role  of  the  Court  and  to  support  its  activities. 
The  growing  number  of  cases  submitted  to  the  Court 
reflects  the  trust  we  have  in  the  Court  and  its  ability 
to resolve disputes with integrity and impartiality and 
in a way that is acceptable to all the parties concerned. 
The Sudan encourages the Court to adopt the necessary 
measures  to  render  it  more  capable  of  shouldering  its 
responsibilities and settling disputes in a timely manner.
My delegation also calls on the General Assembly to 
invite countries that have not recognized the compulsory 
jurisdiction of the Court to do so, thereby contributing 
to reinforcing the rule of law at the international level. 
It would also enable the Court to fulfil its mandate as 
defined by the Charter of the United Nations.
The Sudan also invites the Security Council, which 
has not sought an advisory opinion from the Court since 
1970,  to  take  advantage  of  the  Court  as  the  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  and  a  source  of 
advisory  opinions  that  shed  light  on  the  principles 
of  international  law.  We  also  call  upon  the  General 
Assembly and the United Nations specialized agencies 
to  seek  advisory  opinions  from  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  with  regard  to  the  interpretation  of 
international  legal  principles  that  pertain  to  their 
respective mandates.
In conclusion, the Sudan reiterates the importance 
of the role played by the International Court of Justice, 
and we express our support to the Court in the fulfilment 
of its mandate.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke in Spanish): At the outset, allow me to welcome 
the President of the International Court of Justice and 
the members of the Court who are present here today at 
this meeting. The Plurinational State of Bolivia thanks 
the International Court of Justice for its report (A/70/4) 
covering the period from 1 August 2014 to 31 July 2015. 
We also thank the President of the International Court 
of  Justice,  Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  for  presenting  the 
report to the Assembly.
Bolivia, as a peaceful State, abides by the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  principles  on  which 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  is  established.  Its 
jurisdiction  is  a  permanent  call  to  dialogue  between 
nations that are neighbours and sisters. The Court, its 
principles and its purposes open up new opportunities 
for  resolving  our  differences.  The  Plurinational  State 
of  Bolivia  is  convinced  that  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  is  one  of  the  best  means  for  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  between  States.  Bolivia  urges 
all  States  to  honour  in  good  faith  the  jurisdiction 
and  judgments  of  the  Court,  in  conformity  with  the 
provisions  of  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Bolivia 
also  requests  that  we  uphold  what  is  established  in 
resolution  67/1,  by  which  the  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  reaffirmed  their  obligation  to  resolve 
disputes  through  peaceful  means,  including  through 
judicial settlement. In that same spirit, we wish to recall 
the  Manila  Declaration  on  the  Peaceful  Settlement  of 
International  Disputes,  which  provides  that  recourse 
to judicial settlement does not imply an act of enmity 
between States.
The fact that the Court’s list includes contentious 
cases  from  across  all  continents,  as  the  report  states, 
is  a  clear  demonstration  of  its  universal  jurisdiction 
and the recognition that it enjoys. The professionalism, 
independence  and  integrity  with  which  the  judges  of 
the Court deliver their decisions, thereby justifying the 
trust placed in the Court by the States members of the 
United Nations system, has enabled it to strengthen its 
most  important  undertaking,  which  is  to  establish  a 
universal court of justice for States.
It is also important for me to stress that the Bolivian 
delegation  supports  the  need  to  allocate  adequate 
budgetary  resources  for  the  functioning  of  the  Court 
and  to  do  so  in  a  timely  manner.  We  would  like  to 
underscore the effort made by the Court to disseminate 
its achievements, especially as it prepares activities to 
celebrate its seventieth anniversary, in April 2016.
Bolivia  endorses  the  appeal  made  by  the  General 
Assembly,  through  resolution  69/123,  which  calls  on 
“States that have not yet done so to consider accepting 
the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice in 
accordance with its Statute” (resolution 69/123, seventh 
preambular  paragraph).  Moreover,  Bolivia  also 
respectfully  urges  States  that  currently  recognize  the 
jurisdiction of the Court not to abandon the Court. They 
are  sending  signals  that  indicate  a  peaceful  vocation 
and respect for international law, security and justice.
18/26 
15-35218
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.47
In  the  case  brought  by  the  Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia  against  the  Republic  of  Chile,  which  was 
recently accepted by the Court, as was stated already by 
President Evo Morales, we repeat that Bolivia envisages 
only one way of resolving outstanding issues, namely, 
through negotiation and the peaceful means established 
by international law.
Finally,  Bolivia 
its 
commitment to peace in the resolution of conflicts and 
reiterates  its  faithful  attachment  to  the  principles  of 
international law and the provisions of the Charter of 
the United Nations. It is not might that makes right; it is 
reasonable laws that right injustices.
reaffirms  and 
reiterates 
Mr.  Yoshikawa  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  start 
by 
thanking  President  Ronny  Abraham  of 
the 
International Court of Justice for his leadership and the 
comprehensive report (A/70/4) on the work of the Court. 
I am also grateful to the Netherlands for hosting a side 
event  on  the  Court  with  the  presence  of  His  Majesty 
King Willem-Alexander on 29 September.
The Court was born in 1945, on the very same day 
as the United Nations, and began its work the following 
year. The fact that the Statute of the International Court 
of Justice is an integral part of the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  that  the  Court  is  the  principal  judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations  is  a  strong  reminder  of 
why the United Nations was established 70 years ago. 
The  United  Nations  was  created  to  save  succeeding 
generations  from  the  scourge  of  war  and  to  maintain 
international peace and stability through the peaceful 
settlement of disputes.
The Court is the only international court which has 
universal jurisdiction in terms of the number of States 
parties to the Statute of the Court and the diversity of 
the  subject  matters  it  deals  with.  All  questions  of  an 
international  legal  nature  can  be  submitted  to  it.  All 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  are  ipso  facto 
parties  to  the  Statute  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice.  From  1947  until  today,  161  cases  have  been 
entered in the General List of the Court and 149 cases 
have  been  resolved.  Those  achievements  demonstrate 
that the Court has played a constructive role in the field 
of the peaceful settlement of international disputes for 
seven decades. It is not an overstatement to assert that 
the path the Court has taken to date constitutes the core 
history of the promotion of the rule of law by the United 
Nations  in  international  relations.  In  that  context,  I 
wish  to  repeat  the  plea  of  my  Government  that  more 
States should recognize the compulsory jurisdiction of 
the Court.
On 
today 
the 
than 
the  other  hand, 
the  Court,  such  as 
international 
community  enjoys  the  benefits  of  the  remarkable 
development  of  various  peaceful  means  of  dispute 
settlement  other 
the 
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, arbitral 
tribunals,  international  investment  tribunals  and  the 
World  Trade  Organization  dispute-settlement  system. 
Japan  welcomes  the  current  trend  of  States  utilizing 
such peaceful means of dispute settlement, depending 
on  specific  situations.  We  hope  that  the  effectiveness 
of  international  law  will  be  further  strengthened  in  a 
coherent manner.
The  rule  of  law  and  peaceful  settlement  of 
international  disputes  are  fundamental  principles  of 
Japan’s  foreign  policy.  In  its  bilateral  relations  with 
other Member States, Japan explores the possibilities of 
peacefully  settling  disputes  through  the  International 
Court of Justice. Japan not only abides by the Court’s 
decisions in cases in which Japan was a party, but also 
respects the jurisprudence of the Court in other cases. 
That is because we adhere to the principle of the rule 
of law.
Mr. Remaoun (Algeria) (spoke in French): Allow 
me to express our appreciation to the President of the 
International Court of Justice, Judge Ronny Abraham, 
for  his  introduction  of  the  exhaustive  report  on  the 
activities of the Court during the period from 1 August 
2014 to 31 July 2015 (A/70/4).
(spoke in English)
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the Permanent Representative of South Africa 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States  and  by  the 
representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement.
The  growing  responsibility  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  in  promoting  international  peace 
and  security  is  undeniable,  particularly  through  the 
fulfilment  of  its  mandate  and  its  role  in  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  in  conformity  with  the  rules 
of  international  law  and  the  principles  of  justice. 
Indeed, despite the establishment of many specialized 
jurisdictions at the international and regional levels to 
address many emerging issues, the International Court 
of  Justice  remains  the  only  jurisdiction  that  enjoys 
universality. The Court has a unique position within the 
15-35218
19/26
A/70/PV.47 
05/11/2015
international legal framework, given the fact that it was 
established by the Charter of the United Nations as the 
principal judicial organ of the Organization.
The Court’s work has grown significantly in factual 
and legal complexity throughout the years. The Court 
has  been  entrusted  with  resolving  many  contentious 
cases from all over the world, involving a wide range 
of  subjects,  such  as  territorial  and  maritime  disputes, 
environmental  damage,  violations  of 
territorial 
integrity,  the  right  to  self-determination  of  peoples 
under  foreign  occupation,  violations  of  international 
humanitarian  law  and  human  rights,  and  many  other 
matters. Moreover, despite the increasing complexity of 
the cases and the considerable growth of the workload 
of the Registry over the past 20 years, we commend the 
Court for its efficient response to those new challenges. 
We encourage the Court to pursue its efforts to further 
strengthen measures already taken.
In  that  regard,  my  delegation  reiterates  its  full 
support  for  the  Court’s  key  role  in  ensuring  the 
implementation of the provisions of international law, 
adjudicating  disputes  between  States  and  providing 
advisory  opinions 
international 
organizations  on  how  best  to  assume  their  roles  and 
functions. In that respect, we would like to emphasize 
the  importance  for  all  States,  without  exception,  to 
abide  by  their  legal  obligations  and  comply  with  the 
decisions of the International Court of Justice in cases 
to which they are parties.
them  and 
to 
to 
It  is  also  important  for  the  United  Nations, 
particularly  the  Security  Council  and  the  specialized 
agencies, to request advisory opinions on legal questions, 
when needed, from the International Court of Justice. 
The high moral and legal value of the Court’s advisory 
opinions  would  certainly  promote  both  international 
peace and security and the rule of law. As such, there is 
an urgent need for the international community to insist 
on full compliance with the Court’s advisory opinions. 
In  that  context,  we  strongly  encourage  respect  for  all 
advisory  opinions  and  legal  provisions  delivered  by 
the Court. Respect for international law will reinforce 
the rule of law and thereby contribute to strengthening 
global peace and security.
We take this opportunity to recognize the key role 
played by the Court in maintaining and promoting the 
rule of law throughout the world. In fact, by fulfilling 
its  two  main  functions,  as  mandated  by  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  has  contributed  over  the  past  seven  decades 
to  the  development  and  codification  of  the  rules  of 
international  law  and  consolidated  the  principles  of 
justice and equality at the international level.
Finally,  my  delegation  commends  all  the  efforts 
made to date in that regard, and reaffirms its confidence 
in the Court’s ability to carry out its mission, using the 
same  meticulous  and  impartial  methods  with  a  high 
level of effectiveness.
Mr.  Koch  (Germany):  As  the  principal  judicial 
organ of the United Nations, the International Court of 
Justice makes a crucial contribution to the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security  by  ensuring  that 
international  disputes  are  settled  by  peaceful  means 
and  in  accordance  with  international  law.  Germany 
reaffirms  its  strong  support  for  the  Court.  In  our 
view, two aspects are of special importance if we are 
to  preserve  the  role  of  the  Court  and  to  enhance  its 
contribution  to  the  peaceful  solution  of  international 
disputes even further.
First, with regard to compliance, as States Members 
of  the  United  Nations  it  is  in  our  common  interest  to 
preserve  the  premise  underlying  the  very  idea  of  the 
peaceful settlement of international disputes by judicial 
means, namely, the obligations of the parties to a dispute 
to implement the judgements delivered by a competent 
judicial organ, in particular by the International Court 
of Justice. 
far 
is  still 
Unfortunately,  compliance 
from 
universal.  We  must  all  be  very  clear  in  that  regard. 
Compliance with the decisions of international courts 
and tribunals is not a question of courtesy; it is a legal 
obligation  incumbent  on  the  parties.  In  the  case  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  that  obligation  is 
unequivocally  stipulated  in  paragraph  1  of  Article  94 
of the Charter of the United Nations itself. It is a long-
established  principle  of  public  international  law  that 
domestic law must be adapted to a State’s obligations 
deriving from international law and cannot provide any 
justification for violating the latter.
Secondly,  on  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court, in our view one of the best ways for any State to 
foster the peaceful settlement of international disputes 
by judicial means is by recognizing the jurisdiction of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  compulsory  by 
making  a  declaration  to  that  effect  under  paragraph 
2  of  article  36  of  the  Court’s  Statute.  Germany  made 
such a declaration in 2008. Unfortunately, as of today, 
20/26 
15-35218
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.47
only 72 declarations are in force. Many States Members 
of  the  United  Nations  thus  still  do  not  recognize  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  as 
compulsory.
I  call  on  those  States  to  do  their  part  to  help  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  perform  its  important 
functions  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international 
disputes yet more effectively.
(France) 
(spoke 
Mr.  Alabrune 
in  French): 
The  delegation  of  France  wishes  to  thank  President 
Abraham for his very informative, complete and clear 
introduction  of  the  annual  report  (A/70/4)  on  the 
activities  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  the 
judicial year that just ended.
As  highlighted  in  the  list  of  cases  on  the  docket 
of  the  Court,  its  litigation  activity  has  increased 
remarkably  over  the  past  20  years,  demonstrating 
both  the  confidence  of  States  in  the  institution  of  the 
Court and its role as the principal judicial organ of the 
United Nations in the search for the peaceful settlement 
of disputes and strengthening the rule of law. At least 
12 legal proceedings pending before the Court attest to 
that, as does the fact that over the past year, the Court 
has delivered two judgments — one on the merits and 
the other on preliminary objections — and eight rulings.
While  the  judgments  and  orders  delivered  by  the 
Court are binding on the parties by dint of the authority 
on the subject under review, States’ respect for and due 
enforcement also reflect the high quality of the Court’s 
decisions. The judgments and rulings of the Court may 
thus  contribute  to  easing  political  tensions  and  help 
States to find a solution that other peaceful means for 
the settlement of disputes do not provide.
The past year was marked by the re-election of one 
third of the Judges of the Court. In that regard, we offer 
our  very  warm  congratulations  to  its  new  members. 
The  French  delegation  also  wishes  to  welcome  the 
election  of  Judge  Ronny  Abraham  to  the  position  of 
President  of  the  Court.  The  French  delegation  recalls 
that,  as  emphasized  by  President  Abraham,  the  use 
of two languages, English and French, in the work of 
the  Court  helps  to  improve  the  quality  and  precision 
of the jurisprudence of the Court. It should be stressed 
that it is languages that actually ensure balance among 
the  different  juridical  systems  participating  in  the 
formation of international law.
I  take  this  opportunity,  on  behalf  of  France,  to 
again offer the members of the Court, the Registrar and 
all its staff our profound gratitude for the work carried 
this year, the seventieth anniversary year of the Court, 
which this year again bears testimony to its sustained 
and  effective  activity,  executed,  as  we  know,  with 
limited means.
Mr.  Pírez  Pérez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Cuba associates itself with the statement made by the 
representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the countries of the Non-Aligned Movement.
The  Republic  of  Cuba  thanks  President  Ronny 
Abraham for introducing the report on the International 
Court of Justice (A/70/4). We also wish at this rostrum 
to  express  our  commitment  to  the  strict  application 
of  international  law  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international disputes.
My  delegation  has  recognized  the  work  of  the 
Court  since  its  inception.  Its  decisions  and  advisory 
opinions have been of particular importance not only to 
the cases submitted for its consideration but also to the 
development of international law. The volume of cases 
under the consideration of that forum, many of which 
relate to Latin America and the Caribbean, demonstrate 
the  importance  that  the  international  community 
attaches to the peaceful settlement of disputes.
The  Republic  of  Cuba  favours 
the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes, in accordance with paragraph 1 
of Article 33 of the Charter, and has declared its prior 
consent  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice.  Cuba  regrets  the  failure  of  some  Court 
decisions to be executed, in clear violation of Article 94 
of the Charter of the United Nations, which establishes 
that every Member of the United Nations undertakes to 
comply with the decision of the International Court of 
Justice in any case to which it is a party. 
In  that  regard,  the  Republic  of  Cuba  notes  with 
concern that the effectiveness and enforceability of the 
Court’s decisions can be subject to reasonable criticism 
when  certain  countries  do  not  recognize  judgments 
unfavourable to themselves. Unfortunately, the refusal 
of  these  States  to  comply  with  the  decisions  handed 
down  and  their  obstruction  of  the  United  Nations 
mechanisms  to  enforce  the  judgments,  such  as  resort 
to  the  privilege  of  the  veto  in  the  Security  Council, 
demonstrate the flaws in the mechanisms of the Court 
to  execute  its  decisions.  This  demonstrates  that  the 
necessity  of  reforming  the  United  Nations  system,  in 
15-35218
21/26
A/70/PV.47 
05/11/2015
order  to  give  developing  countries  greater  assurances 
vis-à-vis more powerful nations, also applies to the seat 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  My  delegation 
believes that it would be helpful for the Court to conduct 
a critical evaluation of its relationship to the organs of 
the United Nations generally and the Security Council 
in particular.
The International Court of Justice has handled many 
significant  cases,  and  Cuba  considers  the  unanimous 
advisory  opinion  of  8  July  1996  on  the  legality  of 
the  threat  or  use  of  nuclear  weapons  to  be  extremely 
important. In its opinion, the Court concluded that an 
obligation  exists  to  pursue  in  good  faith  and  bring  to 
a  conclusion  negotiations  aimed  at  achieving  nuclear 
disarmament in all its aspects through strict and effective 
international  controls.  In  that  context,  and  as  others 
have done before us, Cuba urges full acknowledgement 
of the Court’s advisory opinion of 9 July 2004 on the 
legal consequences of the construction of a wall in the 
occupied Palestinian territory, and calls on all States to 
respect and ensure respect for the Court’s provisions on 
that important matter.
Cuba considers it very important that the International 
Court  of  Justice  be  allocated  sufficient  budgetary 
resources to enable it to properly carry out its work of 
settling the disputes under its jurisdiction by peaceful 
means, and we have urged that we work to ensure that 
the  Court  receives  appropriate  resources  in  a  timely 
fashion. The Republic of Cuba is grateful to the Court 
for the publications it makes available to Governments 
and  for  its  online  resources,  which  are  valuable  for 
studying  and  disseminating  international  public  law, 
particularly  for  developing  countries,  which  are  often 
denied information related to advances in international 
law owing to obsolete and ridiculous embargo policies 
that  have  been  overwhelmingly  rejected  by 
the 
international community.
Cuba is a peaceful country that respects international 
law,  and  it  has  always  faithfully  met  its  international 
obligations  arising  from  treaties  to  which  it  is  party. 
We  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  our 
commitment  to  peace.  Th  events  of  recent  years 
have  been  irrefutable  evidence  of  the  importance  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  an  international 
body for settling disputes of major significance to the 
international community peacefully, in good faith and 
in accordance with international law.
Mr. Troncoso Repetto (Chile) (spoke in Spanish):
At the outset, my delegation would like to express its 
appreciation  for  the  report  (A/70/4)  of  the  President 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge  Ronny 
Abraham,  on  the  work  of  the  Court  during  the  past 
year.  It  shows  that  during  the  reporting  period  the 
Court accomplished a great deal on issues raised by a 
number  of  States,  particularly  concerning  incidental 
proceedings  and  new  applications.  We  also  carefully 
studied  the  judgment  handed  down  in  the  case 
concerning  the  Application  of  the  Convention  on  the 
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide 
(Croatia v. Serbia).
jurisdiction, 
In  keeping  with  the  provisions  of  its  Statute,  the 
Court  exercises  jurisdiction  over  cases  referred  to  it 
under terms recognized by the States and in accordance 
with the principle of voluntary jurisdiction. In exercising 
that 
international 
law  as  indicated  in  article  38  of  the  Statute,  which 
sees  international  conventions  as  the  heart  of  States’ 
expression of their will and as a fundamental pillar of 
international  relations,  a  pillar  also  recognized  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations itself.
the  Court  applies 
Among the core principles guiding Chile’s foreign 
policy, articulated in multiple forums and instruments, is 
the principle of the peaceful settlement of international 
disputes. Another of our basic foreign-policy principles 
is the essential role of respect for international treaties 
as the foundation that peaceful, stable and cooperative 
relations among States are built on. The importance that 
my country attaches to treaties is particularly applicable 
to those that establish borders between States. Ensuring 
that they are strictly observed and remain stable over 
time  is  a  prerequisite  for  peaceful  relations  between 
nations.  They  cannot  be  revised  through  unilateral 
actions, nor can their revision be imposed on a State.
We  have  recently  been  apprised  of  the  Court’s 
judgment  on  Chile’s  preliminary  objection  raised  in 
the case before the Court concerning the Obligation to 
Negotiate Access to the Pacific Ocean (Bolivia v. Chile). 
In the judgment, the Court ruled that, even assuming 
that  the  existence  of  an  obligation  to  negotiate  were 
to  be  established,  a  matter  that  would  be  the  subject 
of  proceedings  on  the  merits,  it  would  not  be  for  the 
Court to predetermine the outcome of any negotiation 
that would take place in consequence of that obligation. 
Furthermore,  the  freedom  of  the  parties  to  initiate 
negotiations  cannot  be  limited  by  alleged  obligations 
that are devoid of any legal substance.
22/26 
15-35218
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.47
Considering the Court’s role as the principal judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  wide-ranging 
mission both in contentious cases and in the framework 
of advisory opinions, my delegation would like to once 
again express its support for the importance of having at 
its disposal a complete version of the Court’s judgments 
and advisory opinions in Spanish, which will enhance 
awareness of its rulings and ultimately contribute to the 
dissemination of international law in the broadest sense 
and  adding  to  efforts  that  have  already  been  made  in 
that regard.
Mr.  Meza-Cuadra  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Peru  is  grateful  for  the  introduction  by  Judge  Ronny 
Abraham,  President  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, of the Court’s annual report for the period from 
1 August 2014 to 31 July 2015 (A/70/4).
I would like to begin my statement by emphasizing 
the fundamental role played in the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  as 
the  principal  judicial  body  of  the  United  Nations  and 
as  established  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
Its  work  is  an  essential  contribution  to  the  promotion 
of  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level.  We  also 
note that besides that valuable function, in accordance 
with  Article  96  of  the  Charter,  the  Court’s  advisory 
opinion  may  be  requested  by  the  General  Assembly, 
the Security Council and other organs and specialized 
agencies of the United Nations. Those are the two areas 
covered by the International Court of Justice. Through 
its  judgments  and  opinions,  it  helps  to  promote  and 
clarify  international  law  as  a  true  pathway  to  peace. 
For all those reasons, Peru would like to point out that 
the  General  Assembly  has  once  again  urged  States 
that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  consider  the  possibility 
of recognizing the Court’s jurisdiction, in accordance 
with paragraph 2 of article 36 of its Statute.
Having said this, Peru would like to recognize the 
work carried out by the eminent judges of the Court, in 
particular the President and Vice-President, as well as 
the ad hoc judges. By the same token, we would like to 
put  on  record  our  gratitude  for  the  considerable  work 
carried out by the Registry of the Court, in particular 
by the Registrar and Deputy Registrar. 
The  sustained  level  of  work  of  the  International 
Court of Justice is an expression of the prestige enjoyed 
by that principal judicial organ of the United Nations. 
Indeed, thanks to the Court’s efforts, Peru has been able 
to peacefully resolve its last outstanding border issue. 
The Court’s high level of work can be explained, inter 
alia, by the significant number of measures adopted in 
recent  years  to  increase  its  effectiveness  and  allow  it 
to absorb the ongoing increase in workload, including 
through a speedier processing of the increasing judicial 
proceedings.
Peru  welcomes  the  Court’s  decision  to  celebrate 
its  seventieth  anniversary  through  various  events, 
especially  in  April  2016,  which  my  delegation  and 
especially  our  Embassy  in  The  Hague  fully  support. 
We would also like to commend the host country of the 
Court, the Netherlands, for its constant commitment and 
support to the work of the Court and to strengthening 
its  cooperation  with  the  principal  organs  in  New 
York. In that connection, my delegation followed with 
interest the visit to the Court, in August 2014, by the 
representatives  of  States  members  of  the  Security 
Council. We believe that such visits can be important 
for ensuring a good relationship between the Court and 
the Security Council.
In  reaffirming  our  recognition  of  the  Court  for 
the  contribution  it  has  made  and  continues  to  make 
to the peaceful settlement of disputes among States, I 
should like to take advantage of this historic seventieth 
session  to  pay  tribute  to  José  Luis  Bustamante  y 
Rivero, Peruvian jurist and diplomat, former President 
of  Peru  and  former  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  who  also  directly  contributed  to  the 
achievement of its noble goals.
Ms.  Hioureas  (Cyprus):  It  is  with  particular 
honour  and  pleasure  that  the  Republic  of  Cyprus 
addresses the General Assembly today with regard to 
the report (A/70/4) of the International Court of Justice. 
The  Republic  of  Cyprus  attaches  great  importance  to 
the role and work of the International Court of Justice 
and  to  the  settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful  means 
in  conformity  with  justice  and  international  law,  as 
provided for in the Charter of the United Nations.
This occasion offers us the opportunity to commend 
the Court on its significant work and to pay tribute and 
convey our respect to President Judge Ronny Abraham 
and its members, who serve the Court with dedication 
and  distinction.  We  are,  once  again,  grateful  to  the 
President for his introduction of the report and for his 
insightful remarks on the work and functioning of the 
Court.
In  the  role  of  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the 
United Nations, the work of the International Court of 
15-35218
23/26
A/70/PV.47 
05/11/2015
Justice  bears  utmost  importance  for  the  promotion  of 
the rule of law, for friendly relations among States and 
for  international  peace  and  security.  This  role  can  be 
best achieved through the universal acceptance of the 
compulsory jurisdiction of the Court, as recommended 
by resolution 69/123.
international 
law 
The  Court’s 
jurisdiction  over  disputes  has 
influenced  and  shaped 
through 
the  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes.  With  trust  in  the 
Court’s capacity to deliver justice, in 2002 the Republic 
of  Cyprus  made  a  declaration  for  the  recognition 
of  compulsory  jurisdiction.  To  date,  we  are  one  of 
72  countries  in  the  world  that  have  done  so.  We  call 
upon States to recognize the jurisdiction of the Court 
in accordance with the article 36 of the Statute, thereby 
promoting  and  facilitating  the  International  Court  of 
Justice’s ability to maintain and promote the rule of law 
throughout the world.
requires  an 
It  is  now  widely  recognized  that  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  within  the  framework  of  the 
Charter 
integrated  and  coordinated 
approach,  combining  more  than  one  category  of 
strategies of dispute resolution. A welcome development 
in that regard is the continued and increased recourse to 
the International Court of Justice, in parallel with other 
methods  of  dispute  resolution,  thereby  emphasizing 
the role of the Court in the United Nations system for 
the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security.  In  particular, 
the decisions of the International Court of Justice have 
contributed significantly to the development of the law 
of  the  sea,  which  is  of  particular  importance  to  the 
Republic of Cyprus.
Our  delegation  underscores  the  steps  taken  by 
the Court to enhance its efficiency in handling cases. 
Effective  management  is  pivotal,  considering  the 
Court’s increased caseload. We are pleased to note that 
the 12 cases currently entered in the Court’s list reflect 
the geographic diversity. The cases come from various 
regions of the world and cover diverse international law 
subjects. We would like to briefly address key cases of 
the Court during the past year. Of particular importance 
are 
the  current  contentious  proceedings  relating 
to  issues  of  sovereignty  over  disputed  territories, 
international law obligations to negotiate in good faith 
and maritime delimitation disputes.
The ruling in the case of Certain Activities carried 
out  by  Nicaragua  in  the  Border  Area  (Costa  Rica  v. 
Nicaragua)  is  of  importance  as  the  issue  before  the 
Court is to adjudge upon the sovereignty of the disputed 
territory and territorial integrity. The pronouncements 
of the International Court of Justice relating to issues 
of  occupation  and  territorial  integrity  are  central 
to  international  peace  and  security.  Moreover,  the 
developments  in  cases  centred  on  an  obligation  to 
negotiate are also important.
I would like to conclude by reiterating the support 
of  Cyprus  for  the  work  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  and  expressing  gratitude  for  its  role  in 
promoting the rule of law and its active role in shaping 
international law.
Ms.  Yparraguirre  (Philippines):  The  Philippines 
would  like  to  thank  President  Ronny  Abraham  and 
the entire team at The Hague for their comprehensive 
report on the work of the International Court of Justice 
in the past year (A/70/4).
We subscribe to the statement of the Non-Aligned 
Movement delivered by the representative of the Islamic 
Republic of Iran.
The  world  Court  peacefully  resolves  sovereign 
disputes  that  cannot  otherwise  be  resolved  by  or 
through the political organs of the United Nations. As 
we commemorate this year the seventieth anniversary 
of  the  United  Nations,  its  principal  judicial  organ 
continues to play a vital role in supporting peace and 
security,  human  rights  and  development,  not  through 
armies, but through the rule of law.
Three years ago, we affirmed the Court’s essential 
contribution to the rule of law in paragraph 31 of our 
landmark  consensus  declaration  of  the  high-level 
meeting of the General Assembly on the rule of law at 
the  national  and  international  levels  (resolution  67/1). 
The Philippines today reaffirms both its support for that 
declaration and its duty to comply with the decisions of 
the  Court  in  contentious  cases.  We  renew  our  call  on 
Member States that have not yet done so to accept the 
compulsory jurisdiction of the Court.
In the period under review, the Court was seized of 
12 cases. The gamut of subjects covered the big issues 
of our time, attesting to the Court’s stature as the only 
international court of a universal character with general 
jurisdiction.  Those  include  territorial  and  maritime 
disputes;  unlawful  use  of  force;  interference  in  the 
domestic  affairs  of  States;  the  violation  of  territorial 
integrity and sovereignty; economic rights; international 
humanitarian  and  human  rights  law;  genocide  and 
24/26 
15-35218
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.47
environmental  damage  to  and  conservation  of  living 
resources.  The  sovereign  parties  in  these  cases  come 
from  all  over  the  world.  Almost  half  of  the  cases  are 
from the Americas and a third are from Africa. Their 
example contributes to the progressive development of 
international law and encourages the rest of us to put 
our trust in international adjudication, including by the 
Court.
Article 1, paragraph 1 of the Charter of the United 
Nations reminds us of our primary duty
“to bring about by peaceful means, and in conformity 
with the principles of justice and international law, 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes 
or  situations  which  might  lead  to  a  breach  of  the 
peace”.
That is the rationale for the 1982 Manila Declaration 
on  the  Peaceful  Settlement  of  International  Disputes 
(resolution 37/10, annex). To this day, many delegations 
recognize the Declaration as a major achievement of the 
Special Committee on the Charter of the United Nations 
and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization. 
The  Manila  Declaration  was  negotiated  and  adopted 
by  the  General  Assembly  during  the  Cold  War,  when 
many  non-aligned  countries  were  consolidating  their 
political and economic independence. It supported their 
aspirations  by  articulating  the  norms  of  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes, as outlined in Chapter VI of the 
Charter.
To  illustrate  our  point,  between  1947,  when  the 
Court began considering its first contentious case, the 
Corfu  Channel  case,  and  the  adoption  in  1982  of  the 
Manila  Declaration  —  a  span  of  35  years  —  it  dealt 
with fewer than 50 contentious cases. Since then, in a 
shorter period of time, its caseload has increased and 
it  has  taken  on  more  than  80  contentious  cases.  The 
growing  confidence  of  Member  States,  especially 
developing  countries, 
the  Court’s  capabilities, 
credibility and impartiality in the settlement of disputes 
by peaceful means is not unrelated to the norms, values 
and aspirations articulated in the Manila Declaration, 
of which the most fundamental is the non-use or threat 
of  use  of  force.  The  Manila  Declaration  reflects  the 
international  community’s  increasing  reliance  on  the 
rule  of  law  as  a  cornerstone  not  only  of  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes, but also for the maintenance of 
international peace and security.
in 
The  Philippines  would  like  to  reiterate  that  only 
through  the  rule  of  law  in  international  relations  can 
we  guarantee  the  respect,  order  and  stability  that  we, 
the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations,  seek.  We  believe 
that contemporary international legal architecture has 
strengthened the Court as the only forum for resolving 
justiciable  disputes  between  States  related  to  the  vast 
field of general international law. If there is anything 
that the Charter of the United Nations and the Statute, 
jurisprudence and experience of the Court can all teach 
us,  it  is  that  small  nations  should  have  no  fear  of  the 
big Powers if their cause is just, and that through the 
work  of  the  Court  and  other  international  courts  and 
tribunals, including arbitral tribunals, the rule of law in 
international relations has a chance to prevail.
In  closing,  we  reiterate  our  call  on  the  Security 
Council  to  consider  Article  96  of  the  Charter  more 
seriously  and  to  make  greater  use  of  the  Court  as  a 
source  of  advisory  opinions  and  of  interpretation  of 
the  relevant  norms  of  international  law,  particularly 
on the most current and controversial issues affecting 
international peace and security.
Mr.  Sarki  (Nigeria):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  for  convening  this  important  meeting  to 
consider the report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/70/4). Nigeria is grateful to Judge Ronny Abraham, 
the  President  of  the  Court,  for  his  comprehensive 
briefing and remarks. We also congratulate him on his 
election in February to the presidency of the Court.
Nigeria aligns itself with the statements delivered 
earlier today by the Permanent Representative of South 
Africa, on behalf of the Group of African States, and 
by the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran, on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Nigeria  maintains  a  special  relationship  with  the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  Three  of  our  eminent 
jurists  and  statesmen  have  served  as  members  of  the 
Court  in  previous  years.  We  have  also  had  occasion 
to  defer  to  the  Court’s  ruling  on  matters  related  to 
our border differences with a neighbouring State. We 
therefore  believe  that  the  Court  has  a  central  place 
in  the  administration  of  international  justice  and  in 
promoting  the  rule  of  law,  and  respect  for  the  rule  of 
law, at the international level. We also believe that its 
rulings enhance the sovereignty of States.
We  have  studied  the  Court’s  report  covering  the 
period  from  1  August  2014  to  31  July  2015  and  have 
taken note of the Court’s activities during the reporting 
period. We believe it provides insights into the essential 
working methods of the Court. We commend the Court 
15-35218
25/26
A/70/PV.47 
05/11/2015
for the measures it has taken in recent years to enhance 
its efficiency, facilitating effective management of its 
steadily  increasing  workload.  The  number  of  cases 
adjudicated  by  the  Court,  their  diversity  in  terms  of 
subject  matter  and  the  fact  that  they  emanate  from 
every region of the world attest to the Court’s increasing 
relevance, both as an organ and an instrument for the 
peaceful settlement of disputes.
We note that in recent years the Court has moved 
to publish its decisions using modern information and 
communications  technology.  We  also  welcome  its 
new engagement with the public. Such efforts help to 
promote greater transparency in the Court’s activities. 
We  look  forward  to  participating  in  the  events  the 
Court  is  planning  to  mark  its  seventieth  anniversary, 
in April next year. However, we noticed in the report 
that no request was made for advisory opinions during 
the period under review. We therefore urge that more 
use  be  made  of  the  Court  for  advisory  opinions  on 
sundry  issues.  Indeed,  the  importance  of  advisory 
opinions on legal questions referred to the Court in the 
pursuit  of  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  cannot  be 
overemphasized.
that  of 
recognizing 
According to paragraphs 2 and 5 of Article 36 of 
the  Statute  of  the  Court,  States  are  expected  to  make 
the  Court’s  compulsory 
declarations 
jurisdiction.  However,  Nigeria  notes 
the 
193  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  only 
72  —  less  than  half  the  membership  —  have  so  far 
made  declarations 
jurisdiction. 
Nigeria would like to see more countries accept it, in 
consonance with resolution 69/123. In that regard, we 
encourage Member States that have yet to subscribe to 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court to endeavour 
to do so. That, we believe, would further strengthen the 
Court’s role and ability to promote international justice 
and the peaceful settlement of disputes.
recognizing 
that 
Finally,  Nigeria  will  continue  to  abide  by  its 
commitment  to  promoting  international  justice  and 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  as  a  State  party 
to the Statute of the International Court of Justice and 
having made a declaration recognizing the compulsory 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  We  encourage  all  Member 
States to continue to support the activities of the Court 
in  order  to  promote  international  justice  and  the  rule 
of law.
Mr.  Zagaynov 
(spoke 
in  Russian):  We  greatly  appreciate  the  work  of 
(Russian  Federation) 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  the  principal 
international  judicial  body  of  the  United  Nations 
system. We congratulate Judge Ronny Abraham on his 
election as President of the Court and thank him for his 
detailed report (A/70/4).
It  is  clear  that  States  continue  to  actively  present 
their  disputes  for  adjudication  by  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  demonstrating  their  high  level  of 
trust in it. In many cases the Court’s judicial standards 
and  expert  opinions  have  become  reference  points 
for States’ political and legal decisions. Thanks to its 
dedicated efforts, the International Court of Justice has 
maintained  a  high  level  of  momentum  in  its  work  for 
many years, and has achieved that while dealing with 
the  greatly  expanded  scope  of  its  cases,  cited  in  the 
report for their increased complexity and numbers.
The  Court  continues 
to  consider  disputes 
concerning the delimitation of land and maritime areas, 
a theme that has always been present in current affairs. 
However, today the dossier of the Court also includes 
to  economic  rights,  environmental 
cases  related 
damage,  disarmament, 
international  humanitarian 
law and other issues. We note the fact that during the 
reporting period the Court has rendered judgments on a 
large number of decisions on various issues, including 
a  decision  on  the  case  concerning  the  Application  of 
the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of 
the  Crime  of  Genocide  (Croatia  v.  Serbia),  which  the 
Court  has  been  considering  since  1999.  We  welcome 
the efforts the International Court of Justice has been 
making  to  improve  the  effectiveness  of  its  work, 
under increasingly pressured conditions, as well as to 
maintain the pace of its proceedings.
As the report rightly notes, the Court plays a key 
role  in  the  maintenance  and  promotion  of  the  rule  of 
law all over the world. The widespread dissemination 
of  knowledge  about  the  work  of  the  Court  plays  an 
important  part  in  this,  achieved  by  ensuring  the 
broadest possible distribution of the Court’s decisions, 
the  development  of  multimedia  platforms  and  the 
Court’s work with educational institutions.
In 2016, the International Court of Justice will be 
70 years old. We believe that the events dedicated to the 
anniversary  will  be  an  excellent  opportunity  to  once 
again draw attention to the meaning and role of this key 
institution in the system for the peaceful settlement of 
disputes.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
26/26 
15-35218
