United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
45th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 3 November 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.45
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 122 (continued)
Strengthening of the United Nations system
Draft resolution (A/70/L.6)
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  the 
Assembly considered  agenda  item  122  at its 29th  and 
30th  plenary  meetings,  held  on  12  October.  Members 
will  also  recall  that  under  this  item  the  Assembly 
adopted  resolution  70/3  at  its  38th  plenary  meeting, 
held on 23 October 2015.
During  the  debate  on  this  item  held  on  Monday, 
12  October,  the  Assembly  had  before  it  identical 
letters dated 17 June 2015 from the Secretary-General 
addressed  to  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  (A/70/95), 
containing  the  report  of  the  High-level  Independent 
Panel on Peace Operations, and a report of the Secretary-
General  entitled  “The  future  of  United  Nations  peace 
operations: implementation of the recommendations of 
the High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations”, 
circulated in document A/70/357.
Following the deliberations on the topic that took 
place  on  that  day,  as  well  as  constructive  informal 
consultations subsequently held with the membership, 
I submitted a draft resolution that is now contained in 
document A/70/L.6. I would like to thank delegations 
for  their  fruitful  engagement  during  the  consultation 
process,  which  resulted  in  the  proposal  that  is  now 
before the Assembly.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/70/L.6,  entitled  “Strengthening  of  the 
United Nations system”. May I take it that the Assembly 
decides to adopt it?
Draft resolution A/70/L.6 was adopted (resolution 
70/6).
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda item 122.
Agenda items 119 and 120
Implementation of the resolutions of the 
United Nations
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly
The  President:  I  would  like  to  begin  with  a  few 
remarks on the issue that is the subject of today’s debate.
the  seventieth 
anniversary  of 
reminded 
ourselves about the values, purposes and principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations. In order to advance 
those  purposes,  however,  the  General  Assembly’s 
role,  authority,  effectiveness  and  efficiency  must  be 
continually reviewed and enhanced.
In  our  recent  celebrations  of 
the  Organization,  we 
Resolution 69/321, adopted in September, mandated 
that the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of 
the Work of the General Assembly should continue its 
work during the seventieth session. With that in mind, I 
recently reappointed Ambassadors Vladimir Drobnjak 
of Croatia and Wilfried Emvula of Namibia to continue 
their work as Co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working Group. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-34703 (E)
*1534703*
A/70/PV.45 
03/11/2015
I commend their efforts to date, and I call on members 
to extend to them their full support and cooperation. 
During the sixty-ninth session, the Working Group 
focused on four thematic clusters and identified ways to 
enhance the Assembly in line with its mandate.
First,  concerning  the  role  and  authority  of  the 
resolution  69/321  encouraged 
General  Assembly, 
the  implementation  of  resolutions  and  reaffirmed 
the  relationship  between  the  principal  organs  of  the 
United Nations. I am working to increase cooperation, 
coordination and exchanges of information between the 
Presidents  of  the  principal  organs  and  the  Secretary-
General.  Indeed,  only  two  weeks  ago,  I  briefed  the 
Security  Council  during  its  open  debate  on  working 
methods  (see  S/PV.7539),  an  exercise  that  I  feel  was 
beneficial  to  both  bodies.  As  mandated,  I  will  also 
continue  the  practice  of  holding  thematic  debates,  of 
which there will be three next year, and I will do all I 
can to ensure that they are focused on results.
Secondly,  regarding  the  working  methods  of  the 
General Assembly, significant progress has been made 
through  the  sharing  among  the  Main  Committees 
of  best  practices  and  lessons  learned.  Since  taking 
office,  I  have  met  with  the  Chairs  of  each  of  the  six 
Main Committees, and so far we have had one meeting 
with  the  General  Committee,  in  which  we  discussed 
issues of common interest, including streamlining the 
General  Assembly’s  agenda  in  the  light  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) 
and  the  need  to  manage  time  efficiently  in  the  work 
of the Committees. A further meeting will be held in 
November. I have also met with the coordinators of the 
regional groups, and in November I hope to meet with 
them  collectively  to  discuss  ongoing  business  in  the 
General  Assembly.  Finally,  during  this  session  I  will 
convene an informal meeting on enhancing cooperation 
between the Permanent Missions and the Secretariat.
The third cluster considered by the Ad Hoc Working 
Group  relates  to  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the 
next  Secretary-General.  Resolution  69/321  provides 
clear guidance on the way forward on that crucial issue. 
In that regard, the President of the Security Council and 
I will circulate a joint letter to the membership inviting 
the timely presentation of candidates and describing the 
entire  process.  It  is  also  envisaged  that  the  names  of 
individuals submitted for consideration as candidates, 
together  with  accompanying  documents,  including 
curricula vitae, will be circulated on an ongoing basis 
and that the Assembly will conduct informal dialogues 
or  meetings  with  candidates.  The  resolution  also 
stresses  the  importance  of  ensuring  that  the  position 
of  Secretary-General  is  filled  by  the  best  possible 
candidate. In my view, the inclusion and consideration 
of female candidates will go a long way to securing that 
outcome.
The  fourth  cluster  considered  by  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working Group relates to the running of the Office of 
the President of the General Assembly, a matter that has 
taken on even greater significance given recent events 
connected to the President of the Assembly at its sixty-
eighth session. Last year, the Assembly recognized that 
the activities of the President have increased markedly 
in  recent  years,  and  over  the  past  two  months  I  have 
already  seen  evidence  of  that.  The  primary  role  of 
the President and his or her Office continues to be to 
officiate at the meetings of the General Assembly, but 
in reality, the work is much more extensive and includes 
ensuring  the  fulfilment  of  mandates  as  laid  down  in 
multiple Assembly resolutions.
The presidency is therefore not just a great honour 
but  a  considerable  responsibility,  requiring  an  Office 
that is adequately staffed and run in the most effective 
manner possible, while adhering to the highest standards 
of ethics and governance. As members are aware, the 
Office of the President is subject to a series of checks 
and  balances,  including  through  briefings  to  Member 
States and audits of the regular budget and of the trust 
fund  for  the  Office  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly, as well as through reports submitted in the 
context of the Assembly revitalization process, and so 
forth. As with any institution, however, there is always 
scope  for  improvement,  and  that,  I  believe,  should  be 
considered in greater detail as a matter of priority by 
the Ad Hoc Working Group.
I  have  also  been  informed  that  the  Secretary-
General  intends  to  establish  an  internal  task  force  on 
the  issue  as  a  whole  that  could  also  be  of  assistance. 
Consideration could be given, for example, to matters 
of  disclosure,  financial  independence,  staffing  and 
reporting. Engagement with external actors is another 
important  issue,  although,  given  the  emphasis  on 
partnership in the 2030 Agenda, it is perhaps relevant 
to the broader Organization as well.
Transparency,  however,  is  also  a  matter  for  each 
and every President, and from the outset I have taken 
a number of steps to support that objective, including 
2/27 
15-34703
03/11/2015 
A/70/PV.45
by  holding  regular  press  briefings  and  providing 
information on the staffing of my Office. In addition, on 
a new page on my website that is entitled “Commitment 
to  Transparency”,  I  am  today  making  available  an 
information  note  on  the  Office  of  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  that  builds  on  the  President’s 
handbook. 
In order to strengthen confidence in the presidency, 
I would also like to outline to members three principles 
of conduct that my Office and I will adhere to during 
my presidency.
The first is integrity and impartiality — representing 
the Assembly in an impartial manner, trying to avoid 
conflicts of interest and ensuring gender and geographic 
balance in my Office. The second is transparency and 
accountability — providing information about official 
travel,  finances  and  engagements,  communicating 
openly with the membership and external audiences and 
complying with all relevant rules and procedures. And 
the third is professionalism and effectiveness — running 
my Office effectively and using its resources efficiently, 
keeping  appropriate  records  and  ensuring  a  smooth 
transition  to  the  President  of  the  next  session,  as  the 
President for the sixty-ninth did so effectively.
On  this  and  on  the  other  three  clusters,  there  is 
still significant scope for action, and I will be giving 
close attention to the views of members on how best to 
further  revitalize  the  Assembly’s  work,  including  the 
comments  I  have  already  received  this  morning  from 
a  number  of  ambassadors  who  have  themselves  been 
discussing how to improve the ethics and transparency 
of the work of the President of the General Assembly 
and of the President’s Office.
I now give the floor to the Secretary-General, His 
Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon.
The Secretary-General: Today I will be speaking 
about a most serious matter that strikes at the prestige 
and reputation of the General Assembly. I have already 
expressed my shock at the very serious allegations that 
have been made against the President of the Assembly 
during  its  sixty-eighth  session.  I  have  also  declared 
unequivocally  that  we  will  not  tolerate  corruption  at 
the United Nations or in its name. The Assembly must 
now draw the larger lessons from the incident and act 
with resolve. In that effort, we can build on a tradition 
of responding to problems with systemic solutions.
As members are aware, the election of the President 
of the General Assembly used to be held on the same 
day  that  the  new  session  opened.  Then,  in  2001,  the 
11 September terrorist attacks prevented the Assembly 
from  convening  and  electing  a  President.  As  a  result, 
there was a leadership vacuum and a crisis. At the time, 
I was the Chef de Cabinet of the incoming President. We 
realized that we had to prevent any such disruption in 
the future, so we ended the 56-year tradition of holding 
the  election  on  the  first  day  of  the  session.  Starting 
in  2002,  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  was 
elected three months in advance. That protects against 
a  leadership  vacuum  and  provides  transition  time  for 
the  new  President  to  prepare.  I  also  take  note  of  the 
fact  that  the  non-permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council and the Economic and Social Council will now 
be elected six months in advance of their terms.
It  is  critical  to  learn  from  unfortunate  incidents 
or  terrible  events.  Member  States  must  now  improve 
the  functioning  of  the  Office  of  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  in  order  to  make  its  organization 
more robust, and that includes strengthening the budget 
that supports the President’s activities. We need greater 
transparency  and  accountability.  That  is  essential. 
I  welcome  the  work  undertaken  in  that  regard  by  the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Croatia  and  Namibia, 
who  served  as  Co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly during the previous session, and I welcome 
their  reappointment  by  you,  Mr.  President,  for  this 
session. I will support them in every way possible.
Throughout  my  tenure,  I  have  made  it  clear  that 
the  United  Nations  should  embody  the  highest  level 
of integrity and ethical standards. That is why I have 
taken note of the intention of the United States Attorney 
to  get  to  the  bottom  of  the  very  serious  allegations 
regarding the propriety of the conduct of the President 
of  the  sixty-eighth  session.  As  members  are  aware,  I 
have taken a number of specific steps to address, head 
on, the important issues that have been raised. I have 
requested  an  internal  audit  by  the  Office  of  Internal 
Oversight Services (OIOS) of the interactions between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  entities  mentioned  in  the 
criminal complaint. I have also asked OIOS to audit any 
funds received from those entities, as well as any funds 
disbursed  to  them  by  the  United  Nations.  I  have  also 
requested that OIOS determine whether other matters 
that  might  arise  during  the  course  of  the  audit  merit 
further audit.
15-34703
3/27
A/70/PV.45 
03/11/2015
Decisions  on  the  functioning  of  the  Office  of  the 
President of the General Assembly are the purview of 
the Assembly. But it is incumbent on all of us to help 
get this right. That is why I have established an internal 
task  force,  chaired  by  the  Chef  de  Cabinet,  to  review 
the arrangements for the financing and staffing of the 
Office of the President of the General Assembly. The 
task force will recommend ways to promote enhanced 
transparency and accountability. I have also asked the 
heads of the United Nations entities mentioned in the 
criminal  complaint  that  may  have  engaged  with  the 
entities  involved  in  the  complaint  to  advise  me  about 
what they are doing to look into the matter.
My  Office,  and  I  personally,  will  continue  to 
be  in  close  contact  with  the  Office  of  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  in  order  to  ensure  the 
complementarity and coherence of those efforts. All of 
us have a responsibility to work together to make sure 
that  this  Organization  and  its  officials  comply  fully 
with all relevant rules and regulations, and to carry out 
our  duties  in  full  transparency  before  the  eyes  of  the 
world.
I  welcome  the  General  Assembly’s  initiatives 
aimed at involving more stakeholders in its discussions 
on  issues  of  critical  importance  to  the  international 
community. Informal interactive thematic debates now 
include  members  of  civil  society  and  others,  whose 
voices and efforts can add great value to our work. 
In  the  Assembly’s  most  recent  resolution  on 
revitalizing its work (resolution 69/321), Member States 
set out important measures concerning the process for 
selecting and appointing the next Secretary-General, my 
successor. They include a joint letter from the Presidents 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  to 
start the process of soliciting candidates, circulation of 
the names of individuals that have been submitted for 
consideration,  and  the  convening  by  the  Assembly  of 
informal dialogues or meetings with those candidates. 
Those advances demonstrate the wide-ranging scope of 
the agenda item on that topic, which encompasses the 
role and authority of the General Assembly, its working 
methods and the institutional memory of the Office of 
the President of the Assembly.
I  look  forward  to  working  with  members  and 
supporting  their  efforts  to  revitalize  the  General 
Assembly so that it can achieve our shared objectives.
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for 
his statement.
Mr. Bessedik (Algeria): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM).
I  would  like  to  express  our  thanks  to  you, 
Mr. President, for having convened this plenary meeting, 
which  is  devoted  specifically  to  engaging  in  a  debate 
to  consider  jointly  agenda  item  119,  “Implementation 
of  the  resolutions  of  the  United  Nations”,  and  agenda 
item  120,  “Revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly”.
At  the  outset,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  would 
like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Wilfried  Emvula,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Namibia,  and  Mr.  Vladimir 
Drobnjak,  Permanent  Representative  of  Croatia,  on 
their  reappointment  as  Co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working Group of the Revitalization of the Work of the 
General Assembly and to wish them every success in 
discharging their duties.
the 
importance  of 
First,  NAM  stresses 
the 
full  implementation  of  resolution  69/321,  entitled 
“Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly”, 
which the General Assembly adopted by consensus on 
11 September, and recalls its flexible approach, which 
led  to  that  consensus  adoption.  It  was  also  agreed  to 
continue examining the four clusters, among them the 
selection  and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General 
and  other  executive  heads  during  the  Assembly’s 
current,  seventieth  session,  as  well  as  strengthening  
the institutional memory of the Office of the President 
of the General Assembly.
Secondly, NAM highlights the importance of giving 
priority this year to the issue of the appointment of the 
future  Secretary-General,  whose  election  is  planned 
to  take  place  in  2016.  In  the  light  of  paragraph  44  of 
resolution 69/321, and in full compliance with Article 97 
of the Charter of the United Nations, NAM calls on the 
President of the General Assembly to play a proactive 
role in the run-up to the selection and appointment of 
the  next  Secretary-General,  in  order  to  enhance  the 
transparency  and  credibility  of  the  selection  process 
and  to  make  the  latter  more  interactive  and  inclusive 
at all stages.
In  this  regard,  NAM  believes  that  the  current 
practice  of  the  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General 
is  informal  and  flexible,  having  evolved  over  time. 
Therefore, resolution 11 (I) was completed and amended 
by the provisions of resolutions 51/241, 60/286, 64/301, 
66/294, 68/307 and 69/321, in order to make this process 
4/27 
15-34703
03/11/2015 
A/70/PV.45
more  transparent  and  democratic  and  inclusive  of  all 
States Members of the United Nations.
While  strongly  expressing  the  importance  of  the 
fact that the relevant provisions of the aforementioned 
resolutions should be fully applied to the forthcoming 
process  of  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the 
Secretary-General,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  has 
noticed with regret that most of these provisions have 
not yet been implemented, as reflected in the updated 
inventory chart of General Assembly resolutions on the 
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly.
In this regard, NAM stresses the importance of the 
full implementation of the aforementioned resolutions 
to the immediately upcoming process of the selection 
and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General,  in  strict 
compliance  with  rule  141  of  the  rules  of  procedure 
of  the  General  Assembly,  which  provides  for  a  vote 
by  secret  ballot  in  a  private  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  upon  the  relevant  recommendation  of  the 
Security Council.
In  the  light  of  the  foregoing,  NAM  considers 
that  at  this  time  of  increased  global  challenges,  from 
climate  change  to  armed  conflict,  terrorism  and 
pandemics, the urgent need for effective leadership and 
international  cooperation  is  greater  than  ever.  In  this 
regard, we stress, on the one hand, the need to promote 
more  interaction  between  the  Security  Council  and 
the  General  Assembly,  in  particular  through  a  more 
analytical  report  of  the  Security  Council,  and,  on  the 
other, the importance of improving the current process 
of the appointment of the Secretary-General. The aim 
is  to  make  the  way  in  which  the  Secretary-General 
is  chosen  more  transparent,  credible  and  inclusive  of 
all Member States by making full use of the power of 
appointment enshrined in the Charter.
To remedy this, NAM calls on the Security Council 
to recommend more than one candidate endorsed by a 
Member  State  for  appointment  as  Secretary-General 
for  consideration  by  the  General  Assembly.  The  best-
qualified candidates will possess and display, inter alia, 
a  commitment  to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter,  extensive  leadership  and  administrative  and 
diplomatic experience.
To  start  the  process  in  an  open  and  transparent 
manner,  NAM  requests  the  Presidents  of  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council to circulate a joint 
letter  addressed  to  all  Member  States  calling  on  all 
States Members of the United Nations to submit formal 
candidatures for the post of Secretary-General. Such a 
letter should include a description of the entire process 
and specify a deadline for the candidatures.
NAM also calls on potential endorsed candidates to 
send a letter to the President of the General Assembly 
and  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  notifying 
them  of  their  formal  candidatures  for  the  post  of 
Secretary-General,  unlike  under  the  current  practice, 
which is limited to informing formally only the Security 
Council.
Furthermore,  NAM  calls  on  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly to hold timely hearings or meetings 
of the Assembly for an exchange of views and a dialogue 
or  informal  dialogues  with  candidates  presented  by  a 
Member State. The summary of the consultations would 
then be forwarded to Member States and the Security 
Council.
In the course of the identification and appointment 
of the best candidates for the post of Secretary-General, 
who  should  include  women,  due  regard  will  continue 
to be given to regional rotation and will also be given 
to  gender  equality,  as  stipulated  in  paragraph  59  of 
resolution 51/241.
We also believe, as suggested in the Joint Inspection 
Unit  report  for  2011,  that  prevailing  practices  in  the 
election  of  executive  heads  in  other  United  Nations 
system bodies could also be suitable for the appointment 
of  the  Secretary-General.  Therefore,  we  recommend 
considering existing practices.
Moreover, NAM would like to emphasize the issue 
of  promises  made  by  candidates  in  exchange  for  the 
support  of  the  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council,  which  is  described  in  the  aforementioned 
report  of  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit.  We  consider  that 
there  is  no  position  reserved  for  any  Member  State. 
It  is  therefore  important  that  candidates  not  be  under 
pressure,  either  before  or  after  being  appointed,  to 
give posts in the Secretariat to people of any particular 
nationality  in  return  for  political  support,  since  this 
is  clearly  contrary  to  the  spirit  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter.
Thirdly, NAM believes that there is a need to balance 
the part allocated in the Ad Hoc Working Group to the 
general  debate  and  the  part  devoted  to  negotiations 
on  the  resolution.  Delegations  must  also  have  enough 
time to revert to their capitals on those matters. In that 
context,  we  kindly  request  the  co-Chairs  to  present  a 
15-34703
5/27
A/70/PV.45 
03/11/2015
draft work programme of the Ad-Hoc Working Group 
on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General 
Assembly,  which  should  be  balanced  and  concise  and 
have a clear time frame.
Once again, the Non-Aligned Movement supports 
an effective, genuine strengthening of the institutional 
memory of the Office of the President of the General 
Assembly and of the role and authority of the General 
Assembly, including in questions related to international 
peace  and  security,  bearing  in  mind  the  Assembly’s 
intergovernmental, inclusive and democratic character, 
which have immensely contributed to the promotion of 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations and its goals. At the same time, NAM reiterates 
the validity and relevance of its principled position on 
working  methods.  In  that  context,  NAM  emphasizes 
the need to continue examining pending issues related 
to the four clusters.
To conclude, the Non-Aligned Movement underlines 
the importance of the political will of Member States 
and  of  the  role  to  be  played  by  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly during this session in the process of 
selecting and appointing the next Secretary-General, a 
process that must be conducted in accordance with the 
aforementioned resolutions.
The Non-Aligned Movement reaffirms its commitment 
to  contributing  effectively  and  constructively  to  the 
upcoming meeting of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the 
Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly and 
to the discussions on each of the clusters. We are ready 
to  cooperate  and  engage  in  fruitful  and  constructive 
discussions with all the delegations in a comprehensive, 
thorough and transparent manner.
The President: I give the floor to the observer of 
the European Union.
Mr. Vrailas (European Union): I have the honour 
to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) and its 
member  States.  The  candidate  countries  Turkey,  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Serbia  and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization 
and Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  and  Armenia,  align  themselves  with  this 
statement.
I thank you, Mr. President, for convening today’s 
plenary  meeting  and  for  your  engagement  in  the 
revitalization process of the General Assembly. I would 
like  to  congratulate  the  Permanent  Representatives 
of  Croatia  and  Namibia  on  their  reappointment  as 
co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly. 
That  reappointment  is  a  testament  to  their  excellent 
work  in  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  during  previous 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  significant 
progress achieved in relation to resolution 69/321 on the 
topic. We wish the co-Chairs success also during this 
session and express our support for the upcoming work.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States  are 
strong proponents of effective multilateralism, with the 
United Nations at its core. Our top priorities remain the 
strengthening of the United Nations, based on effective 
and  sustainable  funding,  in  line  with  real  capacity  to 
pay,  and  increasing  the  efficiency  of  its  functioning 
where  there  is  scope  to  do  more.  In  that  context, 
we  remain  committed  to  the  revitalization  process 
and  to  supporting  efforts  aimed  at  strengthening 
the  role  and  authority  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
line  with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
relevant resolutions. Indeed, we wish that the General 
Assembly — as the only intergovernmental body with 
universal  membership  and  a  broad  mandate  with  far-
reaching responsibilities — would take up the challenge 
of reconciling legitimacy and efficiency in the context 
of the emerging global challenges.
At  the  same  time,  we  wish  to  reiterate  the 
importance  of  taking  concrete  steps,  at  all  levels, 
aimed at spending more judiciously, delivering in new 
ways  and  ensuring  that  the  Organization  lives  within 
the  agreed  budget  levels.  That  applies  to  all  United 
Nations  activities,  from  peacekeeping  to  construction 
and the regular budget. For a more effective delivery of 
mandates and the sustainable use of resources to occur, 
an  unceasing  effort  to  find  new,  creative  working 
methods  is  essential.  We  believe  that  only  when  the 
General  Assembly  takes  relevant  action  on  issues  of 
common  concern  to  the  international  community  and 
produces  results  can  revitalization  be  ensured.  By 
doing so, it lives up to its role as one of the principal 
organs of the United Nations.
The EU and its member States welcome the adoption 
of  resolution  69/321,  which  contains  significant  new 
ideas. The flexibility of all States Members of the United 
Nations engaged in the intergovernmental negotiations 
made its adoption possible. It can be seen as a milestone 
in  enhancing  the  transparency  and  inclusivity  of  the 
selection  process  for  the  next  Secretary-General.  We 
6/27 
15-34703
03/11/2015 
A/70/PV.45
call on the President to ensure the necessary follow-up, 
including  the  sending  of  the  joint  letter  envisaged  in 
resolution 69/321. The holding of informal dialogues or 
meetings with candidates for the position of Secretary-
General is particularly noteworthy in that regard.
The  General  Assembly  revitalization  process  has 
also  led  to  other  positive  developments,  for  example, 
the  thematic  debates,  which  facilitate  more  in-depth 
discussions on current issues of critical importance to 
the international community. The EU and its member 
States especially value the interactive character of the 
thematic debates, which enable the General Assembly 
to  be  more  closely  engaged  with  other  stakeholders, 
international  and  regional  organizations  and  groups 
outside the United Nations system. We look forward to 
the continuation of that practice and invite the President 
to  consult  with  Member  States  on  the  possibilities, 
where appropriate and in the spirit of partnerships, of 
engaging a broad range of stakeholders and achieving 
result-oriented  outcomes  in  such  debates.  We  also 
recognize 
interaction  between 
the  General  Assembly  and  international  or  regional 
forums and organizations dealing with global matters 
of  concern  to  the  international  community,  and  the 
benefits that such interaction yields.
importance  of 
the 
We  appreciate  the  Secretary-General’s  continued 
practice of holding periodic informal briefings on his 
priorities, travels and most recent activities, including 
his  participation  in  international  meetings  and  events 
organized  outside  the  United  Nations,  and  encourage 
him to continue that practice.
As to the relationship of the General Assembly to 
the other principal organs of the United Nations, the EU 
and its member States believe that the strengthening of 
transparency  and  cooperation  remains  an  important 
goal.  The  General  Assembly  should  benefit  from 
information about the meetings between the Presidents 
of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security  Council,  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  Chairs  of 
subsidiary bodies.
On  the  issue  of  working  methods,  we  wish  to 
recall  the  need  to  consider  and  take  steps  aimed  at 
rationalizing the agenda of the General Assembly and 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  with  a  view  to 
eliminating  duplication  and  overlap,  and  promoting 
complementarity  in  the  consideration  and  negotiation 
of  similar  and  related  issues.  In  that  context,  it  is 
important to recall resolution 68/1. We believe that the 
biennialization  and  triennialization  of  items  should 
be  further  examined,  as  well  as  their  clustering  or 
elimination,  including  through  the  introduction  of  a 
sunset clause, with the clear consent of the sponsoring 
State or States. In that regard, the leadership shown by 
the Chairs and the Bureaus of the Main Committees is 
of great importance. Let me highlight, in particular, the 
efforts  of  the  Chairs  of  the  Main  Committees  during 
the  sixty-ninth  session  to  improve  working  methods 
in  the  Committees.  Their  joint  letter,  dated  13  April, 
with specific proposals to streamline working methods 
proved  most  helpful  in  making  further  progress  in 
that  area.  We  look  forward  to  continuing  that  very 
constructive  work  with  the  Main  Committee  Chairs 
during the seventieth session, and look forward to their 
briefings to the Ad Hoc Working Group in the spring.
We note with appreciation the constructive debate 
on  the  working  methods  of  the  Second  Committee, 
which  was  held  on  9  October.  We  are  encouraged  by 
the  general  recognition  of  the  need  for  the  Second 
Committee to respond comprehensively and coherently 
to the proposals in the recently adopted 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). We fully 
support  the  ongoing  efforts  of  the  Chairs  to  collect 
ideas and propose ways forward in that endeavour, in 
line with resolution 69/321 on the revitalization of the 
work of the Assembly. We welcome similar initiatives 
by the Chair of the Third Committee during the present 
session.
Although  each  Main  Committee  has  its  own 
authority  over  its  rules  of  procedure,  we  believe  that 
streamlining and standardizing the rules would lead to 
more efficient work on the part of the Committees. We 
would like to stress as well the importance of making 
full use of e-services provided by the Secretariat. The 
widespread use by Main Committees and Member States 
alike  of  such  e-services,  including  the  PaperSmart 
portal,  has  had  a  positive  impact  on  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly during its main session, while it has 
also  saved  considerable  amount  of  resources,  energy 
and paper. We have to continue to work in that direction.
We look forward to the active roles of the Secretary-
General, the President — including in his role as Chair 
of  the  General  Committee  —  and  the  Chairs  of  the 
Main Committees, in consultation with Member States, 
to enhance the coordination of the scheduling of high-
level meetings with a view to optimizing their number 
and distribution throughout the year, while bearing in 
mind the need to preserve the integrity of the general 
15-34703
7/27
A/70/PV.45 
03/11/2015
debate. We believe that the General Committee could 
play a useful role in that process.
We  would  also  like  to  stress  the  importance  of 
implementing  all  General  Assembly 
resolutions, 
including those on the revitalization of the Assembly’s 
work. The implementation of the resolutions will have 
a  positive  impact  on  the  Assembly’s  authority  and 
efficiency. The revitalization of the work of the General 
Assembly  is  clearly  interlinked  with  overall  United 
Nations reform.
With  regard  to  the  functions  of  the  Office  of  the 
President, efforts to strengthen the institutional memory 
of  the  Office  remain  of  great  importance  and  benefit 
us  all.  To  that  end,  efforts  to  encourage  cooperation 
between  incumbent  and  incoming  Presidents  of  the 
General  Assembly  could  prove  most  useful.  Given 
the  evolving  work  load  of  the  General  Assembly,  the 
EU  and  its  member  States  are  firmly  committed  to 
identifying  and  implementing  possible  rationalization 
and  improvements  in  the  definition  of  the  President’s 
role. That would be in support of the work of the General 
Assembly and the effective and efficient functioning of 
the Office. Strengthening the role and authority of the 
President also requires practical steps to strengthen the 
Office’s resources and ability to effectively accomplish 
its tasks. In that regard, we would welcome innovative 
ideas  that  correspond  with  the  need  for  budgetary 
restraint and transparency.
Resolution  69/321  encourages  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  to  continue  the  practice  of 
periodically  briefing  Member  States  on  his  or  her 
activities, including official travel. We see that as both 
a  valuable  source  of  information  and  an  important 
act  of  transparency  for  the  Member  States.  The 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  presides  over  the 
principal  United  Nations  organ,  with  its  universal 
membership, and his Office must embody transparency 
and  accountability  for  all  stakeholders,  especially  as 
the  President  represents  all  Member  States  at  official 
meetings and during official travel.
Finally, let me emphasize the important role played 
by  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization 
of  the  Work  of  General  Assembly.  I  would  like  to 
assure  everyone  that  the  EU  and  its  member  States 
will  continue  to  engage  constructively  in  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group’s  proceedings.  We  look  forward  to 
receiving a work plan soon.
Mr. Raja Zaib Shah (Malaysia): I have the honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian Nations (ASEAN), comprising 10 member States, 
namely,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Indonesia, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Myanmar,  the 
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam and my own 
country,  Malaysia.  ASEAN  also  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Algeria  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
At  the  outset,  let  me  congratulate  Mr.  Vladimir 
Drobnjak,  Permanent  Representative  of  Croatia,  and 
Mr.  Wilfried  Emvula,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Namibia, on their re-appointment as the Co-Chairs of 
the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the 
Work  of  the  General  Assembly  during  the  seventieth 
session. We would also like to express our appreciation 
for  their  stewardship  in  facilitating  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group’s  work  during  the  previous  session. 
ASEAN  is  pleased  with  the  progress  made  during 
their  co-chairmanship,  particularly  resolution  69/321, 
which was adopted on 11 September. We also commend 
Mr. Sam Kutesa, the President of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-ninth session, for his commitment to moving 
the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly 
forward.
The  recent  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United 
Nations provided an opportunity to further reinvigorate 
and revitalize the United Nations. A revitalized United 
Nations  will  make  the  Organization  more  effective, 
transparent  and  inclusive.  The  United  Nations  will 
then  be  better  equipped  to  respond  to  the  needs  of 
Member States. We should all work together to ensure 
that  the  General  Assembly  plays  its  role  as  the  chief 
deliberative, policy-making and representative organ of 
the United Nations. I will highlight several keys issues 
that deserve special consideration during the seventieth 
session.
First,  we  welcome  the  reaffirmation  in  resolution 
69/321 of the importance and benefits of continuing the 
interaction  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
forums,  particularly 
the  political  declaration  on 
strengthening cooperation between the United Nations 
and  regional  and  subregional  organizations  of  5  May 
2015 (resolution 69/277).
ASEAN  has  made  great  strides  as  a  regional 
organization. This year is particularly significant, as the 
ASEAN  Economic  Community  will  be  established  at 
the end of the year. ASEAN looks forward to enhancing 
8/27 
15-34703
03/11/2015 
A/70/PV.45
its interaction and cooperation with the United Nations 
aimed  at  addressing  issues  of  common  interest  and 
concern. We hope that follow-up on concrete measures 
or actions will continue in that important direction set 
by the General Assembly.
Secondly,  ASEAN  welcomes 
the  newly  elected  members  assume 
the  General 
Assembly’s  adoption  of  resolution  68/307  in  2014, 
on  the  conduct  of  the  elections  of  the  non-permanent 
members of the Security Council and the members of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  about  six  months 
before 
their 
responsibilities. We support the current practice of the 
Security Council of inviting its newly elected members 
to  observe  some  of  its  meetings  and  activities  prior 
to  assuming  their  responsibilities.  That  will  certainly 
provide  appropriate  opportunities  for  newly  elected 
non-permanent members to prepare for their tenure in 
the Council.
Thirdly, with regard to the selection and appointment 
of  the  Secretary-General,  ASEAN  believes  that  the 
agreement  reached  in  resolution  69/321  should  be 
implemented faithfully in order to ensure a transparent 
and inclusive selection process. In that regard, we join 
other Member States in requesting the Presidents of both 
the General Assembly and the Security Council to start 
the process of soliciting candidates for the position of 
Secretary-General through a joint letter addressed to all 
Member States, requesting that candidates be presented 
in  a  timely  manner.  As  we  work  towards  the  election 
and appointment of the next Secretary-General in 2016, 
ASEAN looks forward to receiving a clear description 
of  the  entire  process,  including  a  clear  time  line  for 
the  selection  process  and  the  schedule  for  informal 
dialogues between Member States and the candidates. 
We request that the Presidents of the General Assembly 
and the Security Council jointly circulate the names of 
individuals who have been nominated as candidates for 
Secretary-General on an ongoing basis to all Member 
States.
To further enhance accountability and transparency, 
we  also  encourage  open  Security  Council  meetings, 
including  Arria-formula  meetings,  with  the  short-
listed candidates, and regular briefings by the Security 
Council on the progress of the nomination process.
Last but not least, we look forward to strengthening 
the institutional memory of the Office of the President. 
We are pleased that resolution 69/321 has emphasized 
the  need  to  ensure,  from  within  agreed  resources, 
that the Office of the President is allocated dedicated 
Secretariat  staff.  The  staff  will  be  responsible  for 
coordinating 
transition  between  Presidents, 
managing  interaction  between  the  President  and  the 
Secretary-General  and  preserving  the  institutional 
memory in a timely manner.
the 
We also welcome Member States that have seconded 
members of their staffs from their respective Missions 
to assist and strengthen the Office of the President in 
discharging its mandates. ASEAN joins other Member 
States  in  encouraging  frequent  engagement  between 
the  President-elect  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  Council  of  Presidents.  The  Presidents-elect  may 
benefit  from  the  experiences  of  former  Presidents  in 
terms of best practices and lessons learned. In further 
strengthening institutional memory, we encourage the 
outgoing Presidents of the General Assembly to transmit 
a summary of their work during their terms of office 
to their successors. We also encourage the holding of 
a structured and constructive exchange of experiences 
between them during the three-month transition period.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reiterate  the  continuing 
commitment of ASEAN to engage constructively with 
other Member States in the deliberations of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the 
General  Assembly  during  the  Assembly’s  seventieth 
session. We are confident that, with the political will of 
all Member States, we will be able to reach consensus 
and a concrete outcome.
Mr.  Jürgenson  (Estonia):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak on behalf of the Accountability, Coherence and 
Transparency  (ACT)  group.  The  cross-regional  ACT 
group is comprised of 25 small and mid-size countries 
working  together  to  improve  the  working  methods  of 
the Security Council.
The ACT group would like commend all Member 
States for their commitment to the negotiation process 
and for the spirit of compromise and flexibility exhibited 
during  the  negotiations  on  resolution  69/321,  and  we 
wish, in that connection, to thank the Co-Chairs of the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group,  the  Ambassadors  of  Croatia 
and Namibia, for their excellent work and dedication. 
We wish to stress the importance of the effective and 
substantiated  communication  between  the  permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  wider 
membership during the negotiations on the resolution on 
the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly. 
The  ACT  group  is  pleased  with  the  outcome  and  the 
15-34703
9/27
A/70/PV.45 
03/11/2015
consensual adoption of that resolution on 11 September, 
which has also established a structured process for the 
selection of the next Secretary-General.
Of course, as mentioned by the previous President of 
the General Assembly at the adoption of the resolution, 
implementation  is  the  key.  Over  the  years,  we  have 
seen many resolutions passed and not implemented on 
the  issue  of  selecting  the  next  Secretary-General.  We 
must change that. As a first step, a joint letter by the 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council should be sent to all Member States calling for 
nominations. We would hope to receive such a letter in 
the coming weeks in order to kick off the whole process 
before the end of the year. The President of the General 
Assembly  has  received  a  very  strong  mandate  from 
resolution 69/321 on revitalization, and the elements of 
the letter are also outlined therein. Now we are looking 
forward to the Council’s doing its part. In that regard, 
we were pleased to hear about the informal discussion 
that the Security Council had under the New Zealand 
presidency in July and are hopeful that preparations to 
send out the letter are being made as we speak.
Within  a  much  wider  picture,  our  main  concern 
should be to ensure that the best candidates will come 
forward and be considered based on specific selection 
criteria.  In  1945-1946,  the  Preparatory  Commission 
of the United Nations said that the Secretary-General, 
more  than  anyone  else,  would  stand  for  the  United 
Nations  as  a  whole.  We  would  like  to  ensure  that  all 
Members  States,  as  well  as  the  wider  international 
community, have the possibility to hear the candidates’ 
visions and to interact with them.
In addition, we believe that, after 70 years, the time 
has come to be even more innovative. We are, therefore, 
of  the  opinion  that,  in  making  the  final  decision,  due 
regard should be given to equal and fair geographical 
and gender balance. We are also looking forward to a 
thorough discussion during this session on the duration 
of the term in office of the Secretary-General, including 
the option of a single, non-renewable term.
Mr. Yadav  (India):  I  am  honoured  to  address  the 
General Assembly on behalf of India at today’s debate. 
I thank you, Mr. President, for convening this important 
meeting.
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  align  myself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Algeria  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
I would like to congratulate Mr. Wilfred Emvula, 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Namibia,  and 
Mr.  Vladimir  Drobnjak,  Permanent  Representative 
of Croatia, upon their reappointments as co-Chairs of 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of 
the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly  and  to  wish  them 
success in that endeavour. They also deserve our deep 
appreciation  for  the  good  work  they  did  during  the 
previous session.
As we mark the seventieth anniversary of the United 
Nations, the issue of United Nations reform, including 
the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
reform of the Security Council, has assumed particular 
significance. We must heed the call for United Nations 
reform made by a large number of world leaders during 
the recent general debate held at the beginning of the 
seventieth session of the Assembly.
In  his  statement  at  the  Security  Council’s  annual 
debate on working methods on 20 October, the President 
of the General Assembly said,
the 
“[i]t  would  be  remiss  of  me  to  conclude  without 
addressing 
issue  of  Security  Council 
reform — arguably one of the most discussed issues 
within the United Nations and beyond, over many 
decades. As was underlined by a large number of 
world leaders during this session’s general debate, 
this topic is of central importance to a large majority 
of the membership.” (S/PV.7539, p. 5)
We  note  with  regret  that  an  ineffective  Security 
Council has led to huge human costs in terms of wars and 
conflicts,  which  the  international  community  cannot 
justify. The figures speak for themselves, especially the 
huge figure of more than 60 million people affected by 
the malfunctioning of the Security Council.
It is our firm believe that urgent and comprehensive 
reform  of  the  United  Nations  is  imperative  in  order 
to  make  the  Organization  reflective  of  the  current 
geopolitical realities and enhance its capability to meet 
the  increasingly  complex  and  pressing  transnational 
challenges  of  our  time.  While  we  are  happy  that 
resolution  69/321,  adopted  on  11  September,  has 
highlighted  some  of  the  important  steps  required  on 
our  collective  journey  towards  a  revitalized  General 
Assembly, we firmly believe that we still have a great 
distance to cover. Meanwhile, the full implementation 
of that resolution is imperative.
10/27 
15-34703
03/11/2015 
A/70/PV.45
We believe that the General Assembly will not be 
empowered  merely  by  strengthening  procedures  and 
streamlining  working  methods.  It  will  be  empowered 
only  if  its  position  as  the  chief  deliberative,  policy-
making and representative organ of the United Nations 
under Article 10 of the Charter is respected in letter and 
spirit. That requires that the General Assembly should 
take the lead in setting the global agenda and restoring 
the  centrality  of  the  United  Nations  in  formulating 
multilateral  approaches 
transnational 
issues.  In  particular,  revitalization  must  restore  the 
primacy of the United Nations in development matters. 
We would like to make three points in that regard.
to  resolving 
the  mandate  of 
First of all, it is critical that the issue of preventing 
encroachment  upon 
the  General 
Assembly  and  making  the  Security  Council  more 
respectful of the mandates of other bodies be addressed. 
The  encroachment  by  the  Security  Council  on  issues 
that traditionally fall within the purview of the General 
Assembly  are  of  particular  concern.  Moreover,  the 
holding  of  thematic  debates  on  issues  that  frequently 
fall within the purview of the General Assembly or the 
Economic and Social Council also remains an area of 
concern. The balance between the principal organs of 
the United Nations, as stipulated by the Charter, must 
be respected and maintained.
Secondly, one of the more important issues before 
the  United  Nations  in  the  coming  year  will  be  the 
selection  of  the  next  Secretary-General.  There  is  a 
great deal of debate on the prerogatives of the Security 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly  in  that  matter.  At 
the heart of the debate, however, is the question of the 
prerogatives of the P-5, as opposed to those of the rest 
of the membership of the United Nations. And that, to a 
large extent, is determined by something as seemingly 
innocuous as the working methods of the Council.
My  delegation  has  advocated  strongly  for  the 
Security  Council  to  recommend  the  names  of  two 
or  more  candidates  to  the  General  Assembly.  While 
the  pronouncements  of  the  General  Assembly  do  not 
specifically  provide  for  that,  there  is,  in  our  view, 
no  legal  impediment  that  would  prevent  the  Security 
Council  from  taking  such  an  action.  The  General 
Assembly, as the voice of the international community, 
must be given greater say in the selection of the next 
Secretary-General. That is in the interests of the United 
Nations  system  in  general  and  of  the  Assembly’s 
prerogatives in particular. It is in our collective interest 
to select the most appropriate next chief executive of the 
United Nations as we begin to implement the ambitious 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1).
Thirdly,  the  Assembly  and  the  other  entities  that 
form  part  of  the  United  Nations  system  must  reflect 
best  practices  in  their  day-to-day  functioning.  That 
will require a review of the way in which the Assembly 
conducts its business and the adoption of best practices. 
In our view, the primacy of the Assembly flows from 
the universality of its membership as well as from the 
diligent application of the principle of sovereign equality 
of  all  its  members.  Ownership  of  the  Assembly’s 
decisions  and  activities  is,  therefore,  reflected  in  the 
degree  of  participation  by  Member  States.  Member 
States  must,  therefore,  have  the  political  will  to  take 
concrete measures to reinforce the role and authority of 
the Assembly.
the  General  Assembly  as 
In  conclusion,  let  me  re-emphasize  the  need  to 
discuss  substantive  measures  that  would  strengthen 
the  role  of 
the  chief 
deliberative,  policy-making  and  representative  body 
of the international community. You can count on my 
delegation’s  constructive  support  and  participation  in 
those efforts.
Mrs. Dieguez Lao (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): The 
Cuban delegation aligns itself with the comprehensive 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Algeria  on 
behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, but 
I would like nonetheless to make a few remarks in my 
national capacity.
First of all, we are grateful to the co-Chairs of the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
Work of the General Assembly for drafting their report 
on the issues and the efforts undertaken to further the 
process of revitalization during the previous session of 
the Assembly. We would also like to congratulate them 
on their re-election to lead the Working Group.
There  will  never  be  a  genuine  reform  of  the 
United  Nations  without  far-reaching  revitalization 
of  the  General  Assembly,  and  that,  in  our  view, 
will  be  possible  only  by  bolstering  the  democratic, 
participatory  character  of  the  body  through  the  full 
exercise  by  the  193  Member  States  of  the  powers 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
Assembly must recover and strengthen its deliberative, 
normative and policy-making functions in accordance 
with  the  powers  stipulated  by  the  Charter  and  in  the 
multiple resolutions and declarations agreed on in the 
15-34703
11/27
A/70/PV.45 
03/11/2015
United Nations. In order to guarantee the ongoing trust 
of the international community in the United Nations, 
as  well  as  its  legitimacy,  the  Organization  must  truly 
respond to the collective interests of its Member States.
The main problem of the Organization lies in the 
failure to implement many of the numerous resolutions 
of the General Assembly, which constitute an important 
normative corpus that remains largely inert, because the 
implementation of resolutions depends on the political 
will of States with the political, military and economic 
power to apply them. The resolutions on the topic that 
concerns us today have unfortunately not escaped that 
fate. Their level of implementation remains extremely 
limited.
Cuba stresses the need for an appropriate balance 
among  the  major  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
accordance  with  the  Charter,  and  calls  for  a  halt  to 
the  growing  and  dangerous  tendency  of  the  Security 
Council to encroach on the Assembly’s sphere of action.
Revitalizing  the  General  Assembly  cannot  be 
a  bureaucratic  process.  In  the  wise  words  of  Father 
Miguel  d’Escoto,  of  the  sister  Republic  of  Nicaragua, 
in  his  farewell  address  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at the sixty-third session, “Revitalization is 
a political rather than a technical issue” (A/63/PV.105, 
p.  29).  We  hope  that  the  revitalization  process  will 
enhance the interaction between the Secretariat and the 
General Assembly so that the Secretariat can respond 
in  a  more  effective  manner  to  the  mandates  that  are 
determined  by  the  Member  States.  We  also  hope  that 
the process will strengthen the Office of the President 
of the General Assembly and wish to convey our full 
support to the President.
Mr.  Abdrakhmanov  (Kazakhstan),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
As part of its work, the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly 
must exercise strict control over the implementation of 
the relevant General Assembly resolutions, continually 
overseeing and updating the inventory chart of all the 
resolutions relating to the revitalization of the work of 
the  General  Assembly.  We  now  have  a  large  body  of 
legislation on the revitalization of this principal organ. 
We  recognize  the  advances  that  have  been  made,  but 
much remains to be done.
We  will  not  have  an  Organization  that  responds 
effectively to the system of contemporary international 
relations  unless  we  reform  the  Security  Council  and 
make the General Assembly the centre of multilateral 
discussion and work.
to  reaffirm 
its  commitment 
in 
Cuba  wishes 
to  participate  constructively 
to 
continuing 
the 
upcoming meetings of the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly.
Mr. Munir (Pakistan): Pakistan aligns itself with 
the statement delivered by the representative of Algeria 
on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
We congratulate Ambassadors Emvula and Drobnjak 
on  their  reappointment  as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of 
the General Assembly. It is a fitting recognition of their 
success during the sixty-ninth session.
The General Assembly has been working diligently 
on its mandated tasks. It played a landmark and seminal 
role  in  the  design  and  development  of  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  The  implementation  of  the  new 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development will put the 
General  Assembly  at  the  centre  of  decision-making. 
The roles and mandates of the General Assembly and 
the Security Council have been defined clearly by the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Encroachment  by  any 
Charter body on the role of another must be avoided. The 
Charter provides the General Assembly with enormous 
space for playing its role. The General Assembly should 
use that space optimally. It has a leadership role to play, 
for example, on peacekeeping, by using the full potential 
of its Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations. 
In addition, it has undertaken ground-breaking work in 
a number of fields from human rights to development 
to international law. Resorting to the Uniting for Peace 
mechanism, when necessary, enables the Assembly to 
leave  an  indelible  imprint  on  international  peace  and 
security.
Two-way  communication  between  the  Council 
and the Assembly should not remain merely symbolic 
and  cosmetic  but  should  become  substantive  and 
consequential.  We  have  proposed  a  number  of  small 
steps that could improve that communication. First, the 
Presidents of the Assembly and the Council should add 
substance to their largely pro forma monthly meetings 
by discussing collaboration between them, based on the 
agendas of the two bodies. Secondly, the annual reports 
of the Council to the Assembly should be made more 
analytical,  and  the  General  Assembly’s  views  should 
feed back into the Council’s work. Last year’s letter from 
12/27 
15-34703
03/11/2015 
A/70/PV.45
the President of the Assembly in response to the report 
of the Security Council was a beginning. Thirdly there 
should be better scrutiny and evaluation of the Council’s 
work by the general membership. Finally, the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group,  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
for Security Council reform and the General Assembly 
itself  should  work  with  the  Security  Council  and  its 
Informal Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural Questions to refine and improve the Security 
Council’s working methods to make it more accountable 
and transparent for the general membership.
Security  Council  reform  provides  us  with  an 
opportunity  to  enhance  the  relationship  between  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council.  The 
Security  Council  undertakes  the  responsibility  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
on  behalf  of  all  the  Member  States,  not  in  lieu  of 
them.  Therefore,  the  Council  should  be  accountable 
to  the  wider  membership  of  the  General  Assembly. 
The  only  way  in  which  this  accountability  can 
be  strengthened  is  through  increasing  the  elected 
membership of the Council. Moreover, in that process, 
the General Assembly also needs to focus on increasing 
representation  as  well  as  on  other  equally  important 
matters such as the veto, the size and working methods 
of  the  Council,  and  regional  representation.  Adding 
more  permanent  members  to  the  Council  will  only 
undermine its representative character and the principle 
of accountability through democracy. We should pursue 
the principle of the greatest good of the greatest number 
by ensuring that all Member States — small, medium 
and large — are adequately and equitably represented 
in the reformed Council on the basis of fixed terms and 
rotation. Council reform should reflect the aspirations 
and interests of all, not the ambitions of a few.
The  process  of  selecting  and  appointing  the 
new  Secretary  General  has  assumed  even  greater 
significance  this  year.  Transparency,  inclusivity  and 
providing a say to the General Assembly would enhance 
the legitimacy of the process as well as the office. We 
made good progress on the issue last year and need to 
continue on that path.
The implementation of resolutions is critical. And 
this requires the political will of Member States as well 
as adequate resources. The selective implementation of 
resolutions, by design or by default, must be avoided. As 
spelled out in resolution 69/231, Member States should 
be briefed by the Secretary-General about the status of 
implementation. Updating the inventory of resolutions 
should  be  further  improved  by  including  information 
on reasons for non-implementation and delays.
The revitalization of the General Assembly and the 
faithful  implementation  of  its  decisions  would  act  as 
a  force  multiplier  in  empowering  the  United  Nations 
to  resolve  difficult  issues  of  peace  and  security, 
development and human rights. We look forward to a 
substantive and constructive debate on the subject and 
assure the co-Chairs of our cooperation and support.
Mr.  Yoshikawa  (Japan):  I  would  1ike  to  start 
by  thanking  the  President  for  his  initiative  on  the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Both in his acceptance statement (see A/69/PV.94) and 
in his statement at the opening of the seventieth session 
of  the  Assembly  (see  A/70/PV.1),  he  emphasized  the 
importance of revitalizing the General Assembly. Japan 
completely shares his views.
Seventy  years  have  now  elapsed  since 
the 
establishment  of  the  United  Nations.  In  addition  to 
Security Council reform, to which Japan attaches high 
priority, revitalizing the General Assembly is a crucial 
component of the reform agenda. We must make steady 
progress towards achievable and realistic results on this 
item.
We learned with deep shock and sadness the news 
that the President of the General Assembly at the sixty-
eighth session was arrested in early October by United 
States authorities. According to media reports, Mr. Ashe 
took payments from a developer based in Macau using 
his official position. These unprecedented and serious 
allegations  have  severely  damaged  the  prestige  and 
reputation of the United Nations worldwide. I say it with 
regret because Mr. Ashe was a very active president. He 
made efforts to advance such issues as climate change 
and sustainable development.
As the President stated at the press conference on 
6 October, corruption has no place at the United Nations 
or  anywhere  else.  I  am  very  encouraged  that  he,  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  coming  from 
Denmark,  which  is  consistently  ranked  as  the  most 
transparent  country  in  the  world,  is  fully  committed 
to restoring the integrity and credibility of the United 
Nations.  Before  coming  here  today,  I  wanted  to  ask 
him to share with us some of the measures that may be 
considered on this matter. I was therefore very pleased 
and  encouraged  to  hear  that  he  has  already  taken 
concrete steps on the code of conduct for the President.
15-34703
13/27
A/70/PV.45 
03/11/2015
On  8  October,  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
reiterated  a  similar  message  on  corruption  and 
requested that the Office of Internal Oversight Services 
(OIOS)  undertake  an  investigation.  We  welcome  his 
quick  action  and  hope  that  the  OIOS  report  will  be 
issued at the earliest possible date. I also wish to thank 
the Secretary-General for the very strong message he 
delivered  this  morning  on  this  matter.  Based  on  the 
President’s proposals and on input from the Secretary-
General,  I  would  like  the  Working  Group,  in  coming 
sessions, to consider how the Office of the President of 
the General Assembly is run.
This case reminded us that the flow of money from 
and  into  the  Office  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  not  fully  transparent.  In  particular,  we 
have no information about how voluntary contributions 
from Member States and private sources are used. The 
transparency  of  the  money  flow  should  be  one  of  the 
points considered by the Working Group.
With  regard  to  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of 
the  General  Assembly,  Japan  welcomes  the  adoption 
of  resolution  69/321,  which  was  the  fruit  of  long  and 
difficult negotiations. I would like to express my sincere 
gratitude  to  the  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group  during  the  previous  session  —  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Croatia  and  Namibia  —  for  their 
chairmanship.  We  welcome  their  reappointment  as 
co-Chairs of the Working Group for the current session 
and  are  looking  forward  to  closely  collaborating  with 
them again.
We  achieved  a  lot  in  the  previous  session  and,  at 
this juncture, can concentrate on steadily implementing 
this  cornerstone  resolution  and  addressing  the  issues 
that were postponed to the current session. With regard 
to the selection of the Secretary-General, the resolution 
requests the Presidents of the General Assembly and the 
Security Council to circulate a joint letter containing a 
description of the entire process and inviting candidates 
to be presented in a timely manner. We hope that the 
letter will be issued as soon as possible.
At  the  previous  session,  the  idea  of  changing  the 
current  method  of  selecting  the  Secretary-General 
by  encouraging  the  Security  Council  to  recommend 
more than one candidate to the General Assembly was 
proposed  and  intensely  debated.  From  the  viewpoint 
of  transparency,  we  believe  that  the  most  important 
point  is  to  ensure  the  accountability  of  the  Security 
Council in its choice of a candidate. We have to choose 
as  Secretary-General  the  best  candidate,  the  one  who 
meets the highest standards of efficiency, competence 
and  integrity.  It  is  desirable  that  we  have  as  wide  a 
range  of  candidates  as  possible,  including  women.  In 
this regard, Japan supports paragraph 38 of resolution 
69/321,  which  invites  Member  States  to  consider 
presenting  women  as  candidates  for  the  position  of 
Secretary-General.
In  October,  Japan  was  elected  to  the  Security 
Council as a non-permanent member, supported by an 
overwhelming majority of Member States. I thank them 
once  again  for  their  support.  Since  being  elected,  we 
have two and half months before we join the Council 
on 1 January. Although it will be the eleventh time that 
Japan has the honour to serve on the Council and, for 
myself, the second time, I feel that two and a half months 
is  a  very  short  time  in  which  to  prepare  for  Council 
membership.  I  believe  that  the  decision  contained  in 
resolution  68/307  to  move  the  dates  for  electing  new 
members of the Security Council and the Economic and 
Social Council to June will achieve the intended goal 
of giving new members more time to prepare for their 
membership.
This  year  the  General  Assembly  has  173  agenda 
items  to  consider.  I  think  it  is  clear  that  streamlining 
the  agenda  has  become  an  urgent  issue.  In  order  to 
avoid duplication, some agenda items — of the Second 
Committee,  for  example  —  could  be  reviewed  and 
integrated in the light of the holistic nature of the new 
2030  Sustainable  Development  Agenda  (resolution 
70/1). Japan has already submitted such a proposal to 
the  bureau  of  the  Second  Committee.  Furthermore, 
enhancing  discipline  and  fairness  in  the  management 
of this body remains an important topic for discussion. 
In this context, I have one point to make: I believe that 
when  the  representative  of  a  member  State  delivers  a 
statement on behalf of a group, the representatives of 
member  States  belonging  to  that  group  and  wishing 
to  speak  in  their  national  capacity  should  do  so,  in 
principle,  after  all  others  with  national  statements 
whose countries are not associated with a group have 
spoken.
I would like to conclude my statement by reaffirming 
that Japan stands ready to support the President of the 
General  Assembly  and  contribute  in  a  constructive 
manner  to  the  discussions  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
work of the General Assembly, with a view to further 
enhancing  the  effectiveness  and  transparency  of  the 
United Nations.
14/27 
15-34703
03/11/2015 
A/70/PV.45
Mr.  Percaya  (Indonesia):  My  delegation  joins 
others  in  thanking  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  convening 
joint 
debate and in congratulating Ambassador Drobnjak of 
Croatia and Ambassador Emvula of Namibia for their 
reappointment  as  Co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group for the seventieth session.
important 
today’s 
Indonesia  associates  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered by the representatives of Algeria and Malaysia 
on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations, respectively.
There  has  been  progress  on  numerous  fronts 
since a dedicated agenda item on the revitalization of 
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  was  first  included 
in  the  agenda,  which  was  at  the  forty-sixth  session 
of  the  Assembly,  in  1991.  Deliberations  on  this  issue 
have  led  to  the  introduction  of  a  number  of  practices 
in  the  Assembly  aimed  at  enhancing  the  Assembly’s 
effectiveness in performing its role and in fulfilling its 
mandate.
reorganization  of 
the 
The  streamlining  and 
Assembly’s  agenda  under 
thematic  headings  has 
given it greater focus. Improved working methods, the 
earlier  election  of  the  non-permanent  members  of  the 
Security  Council  and  the  members  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council and the strengthening of the Office 
of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  are  among 
the  deliberations’  outcomes  that  have  enabled  the 
Assembly to achieve higher prominence. The practice 
of convening the members of the General Assembly for 
high-level debates on crucial global peace, security and 
development  challenges  have  demonstrated  how  the 
Assembly can cultivate greater common understanding 
on  shared  challenges  and  how  Member  States  can 
deploy their collective wisdom and experience for the 
greater  good  of  humankind.  That  has  enhanced  the 
Assembly’s relevance.
The latest resolution on revitalizing the work of the 
General  Assembly,  resolution  69/321,  has  once  again 
taken the work of revitalizing the work of the Assembly 
to a higher level. It further paves the way for a closer 
collaboration between the Assembly and the Council, in 
particular on the selection and appointment of the next 
Secretary-General.  My  delegation,  however,  strongly 
feels that more needs to be done to enable the Assembly 
to fulfil its role and responsibility, as envisaged under 
the Charter of the United Nations.
In that context, my delegation would like to suggest 
the following additional points by way of strengthening 
our common endeavour of makinge the Assembly more 
robust. First, the full implementation of resolution 69/321 
must  be  ensured,  with  sharper  focus  on  the  selection 
and appointment process of the next Secretary-General. 
Collaboration  between  the  Assembly  and  the  Council 
needs  to  be  further  strengthened  in  dealing  with  that 
issue  and  to  be  expanded  to  other  relevant  areas  in  a 
more  meaningful  way,  according  to  the  respective 
areas  of  competence  of  those  two  principal  organs  of 
the United Nations.
Secondly, the upcoming deliberations should focus 
more  intently  on  strengthening  consultations  between 
the Assembly and the regional organizations on issues 
of common interest, including in the fields of peace and 
security,  human  rights  and  development.  The  Charter 
rightly recognizes the role of the regional organizations. 
They can provide useful regional perspectives, wisdom 
and insights, as well as contribute positively to the work 
of the Assembly and of the United Nations as a whole. 
A more effective mechanism for consultations between 
the Assembly and the regional organizations needs to 
be further explored.
Thirdly, the role of the General Assembly in the area 
of international peace and security should be reinforced 
in keeping with its functions and competence. It should 
take the lead in addressing issues of conflict prevention, 
advancing  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and 
searching for political solutions to conflicts, including 
by 
and  peacebuilding 
architecture.  We  also  believe  that,  having  made  a 
commendable  beginning,  the  Assembly  can  do  much 
more  in  such  areas  as  terrorism  by  non-State  actors, 
human displacement, intercultural dialogue, promoting 
coexistence between peoples and advancing democratic 
traditions and practices.
improving  peacekeeping 
Indonesia, for its part, will continue to suggest and 
support  practical  ways  of  revitalizing  the  Assembly 
so  that,  as  the  chief  deliberative,  policymaking  and 
representative United Nations organ, it can better meet 
the expectations of the global citizenry today.
(Ecuador) 
Mr.  Lasso  Mendoza 
in 
Spanish):  The  delegation  of  Ecuador  would  like  to 
begin  by  expressing  its  gratitude  to  the  Permanent 
Representatives of Croatia and Namibia, Ambassadors 
Emvula  and  Drobnjak,  respectively,  and  to  their 
teams  for  the  very  wise,  efficient  and  patient  manner 
(spoke 
15-34703
15/27
A/70/PV.45 
03/11/2015
in  which  they  have  been  leading  the  work  of  the  Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
Work of the General Assembly. We would also like to 
congratulate the President on his decision to reappoint 
Ambassadors  Emvula  and  Drobnjak  as  co-Chairs  of 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of 
the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly.  That  will  ensure 
the continuity of our discussions and debates from the 
previous session.
Undoubtedly,  with  the  adoption  by  consensus 
of  resolution  69/321  in  September,  we  have  been 
able  to  make  significant  progress  with  respect  to  the 
revitalization of the work of General Assembly. We have 
once  again  acknowledged  the  work  of  the  permanent 
missions  in  the  context  of  the  effectiveness  of  the 
General Assembly, and we have revisited the question 
of  holding  an  informal  meeting  of  the  Assembly  to 
analyse  ways  of  improving  the  coordination  between 
those  missions  and  the  Secretariat.  We  are  convinced 
that in the coming months, we will be able to hold that 
important meeting.
We have also opened a channel for the Secretariat 
to  familiarize  itself  with  the  obstacles  that  States 
encounter  when  implementing  resolutions  involving 
the  Secretariat.  We  have  encouraged  the  Chairs  and 
Bureau members of the Main Committees to improve 
their  consultations  with  member  States  with  the  aim 
of  improving  their  work  and  have  also  stressed  the 
importance  of  respecting  the  predetermined  date  for 
the opening of the annual general debate, in accordance 
with the norms that the Assembly itself has established. 
We  have  also  requested  a  report  from  the  Secretary-
General  regarding  the  gender  distribution  and  the 
regional  backgrounds  of  the  executive  heads  and  the 
members  of  the  Senior  Management  Group  of  the 
Organization. This is a subject of particular importance 
for my delegation, and we are waiting for the report to be 
issued and intend to study it with a view to submitting 
specific proposals.
Certainly,  the  question  that  has  raised  the  most 
interest,  for  obvious  reasons,  concerns  the  selection 
and  appointment  of  the  next  Secretary-General.  In 
the  aforementioned  resolution,  resolution  69/321,  we 
reaffirmed the necessity of the full application of rule 
141 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly 
when  appointing  the  Secretary-General,  as  this  will 
enable  us  to  avoid  any  kind  of  automaticity  when  the 
General  Assembly  exercises  its  exclusive  prerogative, 
pursuant  to  the  Charter,  of  appointing  the  chief 
include  coordination  between 
My  delegation  wishes 
administrative officer of the Secretariat. We have also 
introduced  components  favouring  transparency  in  the 
selection  and  appointment  process  of  the  Secretary-
General.  They 
the 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council at the time that the list of candidates is presented 
and keeping Member States informed of who is on that 
list.  Moreover,  informal  meetings  have  been  planned 
between the General Assembly and these candidates.
to  draw  attention 
to 
paragraph  38  of  resolution  69/321,  which  invites 
Member  States  to  consider  presenting  women  as 
candidates for the position of Secretary-General. Given 
that  a  number  of  countries  have  or  have  had  women 
as their Heads of State or Government, it is high time 
for  the  United  Nations  to  join  them  by  appointing  a 
women to the post of Secretary-General. The important 
measures involving transparency must be accompanied 
by  others  aimed  at  reaffirming  the  active  role  that 
the  General  Assembly  must  play  in  the  process  of 
the  selection  and  appointment  of  the  next  Secretary-
General, in accordance with Article 97 of the Charter. 
It is particularly important for my delegation, therefore, 
that  pursuant  to  paragraph  44  of  resolution  69/321, 
we  continue  during  the  current  session  to  discuss 
and  decide  on  several  issues  including,  for  example, 
the  optimal  number  of  candidates  that  the  General 
Assembly should submit to the Security Council or the 
duration of Secretary-General’s term.
Of  course,  we  are  committed  to  discussing  and 
exchanging  views  on  those  questions,  with  a  view 
to  determining  ways  of  democratizing  the  process 
of  selecting  and  appointing  the  Secretary-General, 
including  the  next  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations, who will preferably be a woman. The aim of 
our delegation, while serving on the Ad Hoc Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly, has been and still is to reaffirm the rights and 
prerogatives  of  the  General  Assembly,  in  accordance 
with the relevant provisions of the Charter, it being the 
universal and most representative organ of the United 
Nations, on which all Members States are represented 
on  an  equal  footing.  We  will  maintain  that  position, 
bearing in mind that we have a long road ahead of us 
before we attain the objectives outlined. Our delegation 
stands  ready  to  continue  to  provide  its  support  to  the 
President of the General Assembly.
Mr.  Zhao  Yong  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  This 
year  marks  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United 
16/27 
15-34703
03/11/2015 
A/70/PV.45
Nations. For the past 70 years, the United Nations has 
consistently  made  efforts  to  maintain  international 
peace  and  security,  to  advance  world  development 
and  prosperity,  and  to  promote  coordination  and 
cooperation among all countries. For the past 70 years, 
the United Nations has witnessed the exploratory and 
practical efforts of Member States to safeguard peace, 
build  a  homeland  and  seek  cooperation.  At  this  new 
historic  starting  point,  we  should  further  reflect  on 
how  the  United  Nations  can  play  a  bigger  role  in  the 
advancement of humankind in the twenty-first century, 
so that the United Nations can better serve the people 
of the United Nations.
The  General  Assembly  comprises  193  Member 
States  and  is  the  most  universal  and  representative 
Charter organ of the United Nations. It is also the main 
organ  for  deliberating  policy.  The  seventieth  session 
of the General Assembly is a session at which we can 
build on the past and prepare for the future. It is of great 
significance.  It  represents  an  important  opportunity 
for  the  United  Nations  to  reposition  itself  and  make 
a  fresh  start.  Member  countries  should  work  together 
to revitalize the General Assembly by injecting a new 
dynamism  into  its  proceedings  during  this  session, 
with a view to further promoting and improving United 
Nations  efficiency  and  effectiveness.  In  that  regard,  I 
wish to emphasize the following.
First,  we  should  comprehensively  implement  the 
outcomes of the United Nations summits with a view 
to  promoting  progress  in  all  areas  of  the  work  of  the 
General  Assembly.  The  United  Nations  has  held  a 
series of summits in the areas of development, of peace 
and  security  and  of  women.  All  the  summits  have 
achieved positive outcomes. This session of the General 
Assembly  should  focus  on  the  implementation  of  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1) and push the General Assembly to a higher level 
of achievement.
Secondly,  we  should  fully  discharge  the  General 
Assembly function of policy deliberation and continue 
to  improve  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly.  The 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  provides  that  the 
General  Assembly  may  discuss  any  questions  or  any 
matters  within  the  scope  of  the  Charter  and  make 
recommendations.  The  General  Assembly  should, 
pursuant to the provisions of the Charter, improve its 
division  of  labour  and  coordination  with  the  Security 
Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  with 
each continuing to maximize its own advantages in their 
respective fields, while at the same time strengthening 
coordination and cooperation to form a synergy.
The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is 
in  the  common  interest  of  all  Member  States  and  an 
effort that China staunchly supports. China has taken 
note  of  the  efforts  by  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group 
on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General 
Assembly to strengthen the role and the authority of the 
General  Assembly  and  improve  its  working  methods. 
China  welcomes  the  reappointment  of  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Croatia  and  Namibia  to  co-chair 
the Ad Hoc Working Group. We hope that, within the 
framework of the Working Group, all parties will follow 
the principles of democratic consultation and gradually 
progress  from  easier  issues  to  more  difficult  ones, 
so  as  to  steadily  push  forward  the  implementation  of 
resolution 69/321. China will work with other countries 
in  joint  efforts  to  push  for  positive  progress  on  the 
important question of the revitalization of the work of 
the General Assembly.
Ms. Sison (United States of America): The United 
States would like to thank the co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of 
the  General  Assembly,  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  Croatia,  Ambassador  Vladimir  Drobnjak,  and  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Namibia,  Ambassador 
Wilfried  Emvula.  Their  significant  contributions 
to  the  General  Assembly’s  revitalization  and  their 
even-handed  management  of  the  Working  Group’s 
negotiations over the past year allowed Member States 
to reach consensus on a resolution with wide-ranging 
positive implications for the Assembly’s work. We are 
very  pleased  that  they  are  returning  to  the  helm  this 
year.
During the sixty-ninth session, the Working Group 
discussed many issues of paramount importance to the 
efficacy of the General Assembly with the process for 
selecting  the  Secretary-General,  a  clear  priority  for 
many Member States. The United States welcomed the 
opportunity to work constructively with other members 
towards increasing engagement and communication on 
the  process.  In  the  past  year,  we  achieved  consensus 
on  resolution  69/321.  That  consensus  will  serve  as  a 
strong basis for revitalization and includes significant, 
concrete  outcomes,  particularly  on 
the  selection 
process.
The selection of a new Secretary-General is always 
an  exciting  time  for  the  Organization.  In  our  view, 
15-34703
17/27
A/70/PV.45 
03/11/2015
resolution 69/321 reflects the efforts of Member States 
to work together constructively to address the selection 
process,  consistent  with  the  clear  and  straightforward 
directive  set  forth  in  Article  97  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations.  We  look  forward  to  carefully 
considering all candidates over the coming months.
Moving  forward,  the  United  States  believes  we 
must  refocus  our  efforts  to  increase  the  Assembly’s 
efficiency,  effectiveness  and  transparency.  We  must 
streamline  and  prioritize  the  agenda  with  an  eye  to 
removing outdated topics to allow more time to address 
the pressing issues most in need of our attention.
We  should  also  look  to  improve  the  practices 
and  working  methods  of 
the  Main  Committees. 
These  should  be  among  the  Working  Group’s  highest 
priorities — tangible aspects of revitalization that will 
result in real improvements for the work of the General 
Assembly.  We  recognize  that  attention  is  also  being 
given to other aspects of the Organization’s work, such 
as the working methods of the Security Council. These 
are  important  topics,  but  we  do  not  believe  that  they 
should  be  the  primary  focus  of  the  Working  Group’s 
efforts,  particularly  the  working  methods  and  other 
issues  within  the  Council’s  remit.  The  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  makes  clear  the  coequal  relationship 
between the two organs, which should be respected.
The United States is fully committed to multilateral 
engagement  and  a  strong  United  Nations  system.  We 
look  forward  to  working  with  all  Members  as  we 
continue  to  consider  the  best  options  for  revitalizing 
the General Assembly.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): We welcome the convening of today’s meeting 
of  the  General  Assembly  on  revitalizing  its  work.  I 
would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the 
Permanent Representatives of Croatia and Namibia on 
their  reappointment  to  the  posts  of  co-Chairs  of  the 
Ad Hoc Working Group. We noted their work in those 
positions during the sixty-ninth session.
We support realistic initiatives aimed at increasing 
the effectiveness of the work of the General Assembly, 
which to a large extent can be achieved by improving 
the  working  methods  of 
the  General  Assembly 
and  by  reorganizing  its  agenda,  which  is  currently 
overburdened. We believe it is necessary to continue to 
biennialize and triennialize some agenda items and to 
delete those that are no longer relevant.
We  support  the  proposal  to  move  the  high-level 
week of the general debate, because the Heads of State 
and Government and the Ministers for Foreign Affairs 
who are present in New York already have a busy diary 
of bilateral events. During that period we should limit 
the  number  of  high-level  events,  and  the  rest  should 
be spread evenly over the whole period of the General 
Assembly session. In that regard, we welcome the plan 
of the President of the General Assembly to hold several 
high-level thematic debates on important agenda items 
next  May.  Of  course,  any  reform  initiative  must  be 
based on strict respect for the relevant prerogatives of 
the principal organs of the United Nations, as set out in 
the Charter of the United Nations.
The  election  of  the  new  Secretary-General  is 
approaching, and we hope that it will be conducted in 
strict  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Charter, 
according to which the Secretary-General is appointed 
by  the  General  Assembly  on  the  recommendation  of 
the  Security  Council.  It  remains  to  be  seen  how  the 
platform of the General Assembly will be used during 
the  election  campaign  by  the  candidates  for  the  post 
of  Secretary-General.  We  believe  that  the  process 
should not eclipse the substantive work of the General 
Assembly.  The  best  format  for  interaction  between 
candidates and Member States is still through regional 
groupings.
And  there  is  another  aspect.  We  all  recall  that  in 
one of the resolutions of the General Assembly there is 
a request that the Security Council should submit the 
name of only one candidate to the General Assembly. 
However, Russia does not exclude the possibility that the 
Council may recommend more than one such candidate. 
Such  a  variant  should  not  present  any  difficulties  for 
the work that the members of the Security Council must 
undertake.
In discussing issues that concern the revitalization 
of  the  General  Assembly,  we  have  heard  the  Security 
Council  criticized  for  allegedly  encroaching  on  the 
prerogatives  of  other  United  Nations  organs.  We 
share  that  concern.  Our  colleagues  in  the  Security 
Council well know that we show restraint with respect 
to  initiatives  that  draw  the  Security  Council  into 
addressing issues of a general nature. We believe that 
the Council should restrict itself to the country-based 
issues and areas in which it can and must take practical 
decisions.  In  fact,  we  have  just  prevented  attempts 
within  the  Security  Council  to  discuss  one  of  the 
sustainable  development  agenda  issues,  as  we  believe 
18/27 
15-34703
03/11/2015 
A/70/PV.45
that to do so would be a clear example of encroaching 
on  the  mandates  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and  the  General  Assembly.  We  believe  that  in  such 
cases  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  should 
exercise the prerogatives of that body.
We note that the Security Council often holds open 
debates that are of interest to many Member States and 
that do not address issues of maintaining international 
peace and security. We often have the impression that 
the  General  Assembly  has  merged  into  the  Security 
Council. We believe that debates on such issues should 
take  place  in  the  General  Assembly,  where  all  States 
Members of the United Nations can speak on an equal 
basis, giving greater impetus to the revitalization of the 
General Assembly.
Ms.  Mejía  Vélez  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  for  his  leadership 
and  to  congratulate  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Croatia  and  Namibia  for  the  historic  advance  in  the 
recent  resolution  on  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of 
the General Assembly. Their confirmation as co-Chairs 
reaffirms  our  belief  in  the  possibility  of  the  concrete 
and  significant  progress  that  remains  to  be  achieved 
and the certainty that positive results can be obtained 
when  Member  States  work  with  the  shared  goal  of 
improving this Organization with effectiveness, ethics 
and transparency.
Colombia  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made 
by  the  representative  of  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement.
Resolution  69/321  strengthens  four  key  elements 
concerning  the  principal  deliberative  organ  of  the 
United Nations: its role, its authority, its efficiency and 
its effectiveness. In that regard, I would like to stress 
the work of the General Assembly with respect to the 
nomination,  selection  and  designation  of  the  person 
who  will  succeed  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  at 
the end of 2016 in a transparent and inclusive manner, 
with changes that include, first, the circulation of a joint 
letter from the Presidents of the General Assembly and 
the Security Council, on which many delegations have 
insisted; secondly, a timetable for the process; thirdly, a 
list with the names of the candidates and their curricula 
vitae that will enable all Member States to analyse the 
experience  and  qualities  of  each;  and,  fourthly,  the 
holding  of  hearings,  both  formal  and  informal,  in  the 
General Assembly such that all Member States without 
exception,  large  and  small,  can  interact  with  the 
candidates and experience the traditional trappings of a 
democratic process, which have now been incorporated 
into the election process of the United Nations.
A  fifth  element  of  immense  importance  to  my 
delegation  is  the  inclusion,  for  the  first  time  in  the 
Organization’s 70 years of existence, of a call to present 
women  as  candidates  for  the  highest  post  of  global 
diplomacy, which represents a genuine contribution by 
the United Nations to the highest principles for which 
it  has  fought  in  recent  years,  as  President  Lykketoft 
himself  noted  in  his  statement  this  morning.  In  that 
regard, I would like to recall the initiative, so far joined 
by 50 countries, to create a group of friends in favour 
of a woman candidate to be the next Secretary-General, 
prompted by the conviction that in 11 months we will 
be making history.
Achievements such as those set out in the recently 
adopted resolution 69/321, on the revitalization of the 
work of theGeneral Assembly, are certainly important, 
but  they  do  not  imply  that  the  work  of  strengthening 
the principal deliberative organ of the United Nations 
has  been  fully  realized.  As  both  the  President  and 
the  Secretary-General  have  stressed,  tasks  still  to  be 
accomplished and on which we should make headway 
during  this  session  include  increasing  cooperation 
and  integration  among  organs  and  maximizing  the 
efficient use of resources. There needs to be equitable 
representation  and  geographical  distribution  within 
the  United  Nations,  and  both  working  methods  and 
accountability need to be improved across the diverse 
structures  that  form  the  system  to  make  them  more 
efficient,  but  also  more  transparent,  credible  and 
legitimate, in order to respond to the challenges in the 
agendas on development, security and human rights.
Colombia  firmly  believes  that  such  steps  will 
enable  us  to  achieve  a  revitalized  General  Assembly 
that will be more capable of fulfilling the mandate that 
Member States have entrusted to it of promoting among 
nations, on the basis of respect, the principle of equal 
rights and universal peace.
Mr.  Mahmoud  (Egypt):  Egypt  fully  associates 
itself with the statement made by the representative of 
Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
I thank the President for convening this important 
meeting on agenda items 119 and 120. I am also pleased 
by the reappointment of the Permanent Representatives 
of  Croatia  and  Namibia  as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of 
15-34703
19/27
A/70/PV.45 
03/11/2015
the  General  Assembly.  I  congratulate  them  on  their 
remarkable  achievements  during  the  past  session, 
and I assure them of my delegation’s full support and 
cooperation in addressing the important tasks ahead of 
us this year.
Given the central role of the General Assembly as 
the chief deliberative, policymaking and representative 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  Egypt  believes  that  the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly 
is  an  integral  part  of  the  broader  efforts  aimed  at 
strengthening  the  entire  Organization.  Improving  the 
efficiency and effectiveness of the Assembly is indeed 
an essential step towards creating an Organization that 
is more democratic, inclusive and capable of effectively 
undertaking 
in 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Ensuring  the 
implementation  of  its  resolutions,  including  those 
related to revitalization, is critical to enhancing the role 
and authority of the General Assembly. In this context, 
Egypt welcomes the adoption of resolution 69/321 and 
stresses  the  importance  of  fully  implementing  all  its 
provisions.
its  responsibilities,  as  enshrined 
Thanks to the diligent efforts of the Working Group, 
important  improvements  have  been  introduced  to  the 
working methods of the General Assembly, notably the 
early election of the members of the Security Council 
and the Economic and Social Council, six months prior 
to their assumption of responsibilities. This is in effect 
in  the  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  with 
the  aim  of  enabling  them  to  prepare  sufficiently  for 
their new tasks. There is a need to continue improving 
the  working  methods  of 
the  General  Assembly, 
and  particularly  its  Main  Committees,  to  ensure  an 
efficient  management  and  effective  conduct  of  their 
steadily  increasing  workloads,  and  first  and  foremost 
to sufficiently empower the office of the President with 
the resources and staffing to enable it to implement its 
challenging task.
facing 
The  challenges 
the  United  Nations 
today  —  from  combating  terrorism  and  maintaining 
peace 
to  achieving  sustainable  development  and 
addressing the root causes of conflicts — are daunting. 
Meeting  them  requires  enhanced  cooperation  among 
the principal organs of the United Nations in a mutually 
reinforcing  and  complementary  relationship,  while 
respecting the balance among their respective functions 
and mandates, as enshrined in the Charter.
The  open  debate  on  the  working  methods  of  the 
Security Council held on 20 October (see S/PV.7539), in 
the presence and with the contribution of the Presidents 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council,  demonstrated  the  desire  of  the  wider 
membership  for  enhanced  cooperation  among  these 
bodies to ensure a more holistic approach to sustaining 
peace and to forge stronger linkages among the three 
pillars of the work of the United Nations. In that regard, 
Egypt  welcomes  the  Security  Council’s  adoption  of 
its  first-ever  presidential  statement  (S/PRST/2015/19) 
focused  entirely  on  its  working  methods,  in  which 
the  Council  underscored  the  importance  of  increased 
coordination,  cooperation  and  interaction  among  the 
principal organs of the United Nations.
Lastly, I wish to address the issue of the appointment 
of the new Secretary-General. Egypt believes that the 
landmark  resolution  69/321,  which  was  adopted  by 
consensus in September, paves the way for a predictable, 
transparent  and  merit-based  selection  process.  The 
resolution addresses some of the multiple imperfections 
that have negatively impacted the selection process for 
the past 70 years. Our collective responsibility now is 
to ensure its timely and effective implementation. We 
are  mindful  that  some  very  important  aspects  of  this 
process remain subject to further consideration during 
the current session. We are hopeful that the same spirit 
of  understanding  and  accommodation  that  led  to  the 
adoption of resolution 69/321 by consensus will guide 
the next phase of our work.
As  an  elected  member  of  the  Security  Council, 
and  through  its  membership  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly,  Egypt  will  exert  its  utmost  efforts  to 
guarantee that the process will be inclusive, open and 
democratic, and that the voices of all Members will be 
heard and duly considered throughout the process.
Mr. Mamabolo (South Africa): My delegation fully 
associates  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative of Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement.
Allow  me  to  congratulate  the  co-Chairs  of  the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
Work  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  four  thematic 
issues during this seventieth session. We welcome the 
reappointment  of  the  Ambassadors  of  Namibia  and 
Croatia to steer the ship.
20/27 
15-34703
03/11/2015 
A/70/PV.45
to  reiterate 
My  delegation  wishes 
its  strong 
belief  that  the  General  Assembly  remains  the  main 
deliberative,  policymaking  and  representative  organ 
of the United Nations, and that it is our responsibility 
as Member States to ensure that the Assembly remains 
relevant and responsive to the needs of the populations 
we  serve.  It  is  therefore  appropriate  that  during  this 
seventieth  session  the  General  Assembly,  through 
the Ad Hoc Working Group, should again discuss the 
critical  issue  of  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the 
Secretary-General  and  other  executive  heads  with 
renewed vigour.
South  Africa  fully  endorses  the  urgent,  near 
universal call of the membership, as voiced by several 
groups, including the Non-Aligned Movement, for the 
appointment  process  for  the  next  Secretary-General 
finally breaks from the antiquated process established 
by  resolution  11  (I)  of  1946.  It  is  time  for  the  most 
representative  Organization  in  the  world  to  appoint 
its  chief  administrative  officer  through  a  transparent 
and  inclusive  process,  with  due  consideration  for 
pre-established  selection  criteria,  gender  equality  and 
geographic representation. That can be achieved only if 
the process of selecting and appointing the Secretary-
General becomes more structured and starts with a call 
for applications.
In  this  modern  day  and  age,  such  appointment 
stipulations  are  critical  to  ensuring  that  the  best 
candidate  for  the  position  is  selected  and  that  the 
Secretary-General  can  be  held  accountable  to  the 
General  Assembly  and  not  only  to  a  select  few.  To 
that  end,  we  call  for  a  joint  letter  by  the  Presidents 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  to 
officially  launch  the  selection  process  by  describing 
the process and inviting candidates to be presented in a 
timely manner. A list of the selection criteria, including 
proven  leadership  and  managerial  abilities,  extensive 
experience 
relations  and  strong 
diplomatic,  communication  and  multilingual  skills,  is 
a prerequisite.
international 
in 
We  request  that  the  Presidents  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  continuously 
update  the  curricula  vitae  of  prospective  candidates 
and  that  they  avail  themselves  of  the  opportunity  for 
informal dialogue with the broader membership of the 
Organization. There is above all a strong need for the 
appointment of a Secretary-General who embodies the 
highest  standards  of  efficiency,  competency,  integrity 
and a strong commitment to the principles and purposes 
of the Charter of the United Nations, together with the 
values and objectives of the Organization.
This year, which marks the seventieth anniversary 
of the establishment of the United Nations, provides a 
seminal opportunity for Member States to reinvigorate 
the  Organization  as  a  whole  and  to  continue  our 
efforts for the revitalization of the General Assembly. 
The  General  Assembly’s  role,  authority  and  working 
methods  must  be  strengthened  to  restore  its  rightful 
place  at  the  centre  of  the  global  governance  system. 
In  addition  to  emphasizing  the  issues  of  greater 
transparency  and  inclusiveness,  South  Africa  shares 
the  view  strongly  held  by  many  Member  States  that 
the  General  Assembly  should  be  given  a  prominent 
role  on  all  critical  issues,  including  the  selection  and 
appointment processes for the new Secretary-General, 
that goes beyond merely rubber-stamping the choice of 
a select few Members of the United Nations.
We  do  not  share  the  view  expressed  by  a  small 
minority  of  States  that  it  is  premature  at  this  stage 
to  discuss  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the  next 
Secretary-General.  In 
that  regard,  South  Africa 
expresses  its  hope  that  the  Council’s  discussion  will 
result in full engagement with the General Assembly. 
The  broad  interest  in  the  issue  and  the  fervour  with 
which the important matter has repeatedly been raised 
in  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  in  recent  years  attests 
to the fact that the matter is urgent. We trust that the 
urgency  of  our  discussions  will  translate  into  a  more 
democratic process. Such a democratic process needs to 
include a thorough consideration of the nomination of 
multiple candidates for the post of Secretary-General, 
as  well  as  that  of  seriously  considering  a  single  term 
limit for the next appointee.
In closing, my delegation looks forward to continued 
rich discussion during this session on the issue and on 
the other three core thematic issues: enhancing the role 
and authority of the General Assembly, improving the 
working  methods  of  the  Assembly,  and  strengthening 
the institutional memory of the Office of the President 
of the General Assembly.
Mr. Rakhmetullin (Kazakhstan): At the outset, my 
delegation wishes to express its immense gratitude to 
the Permanent Representatives of Croatia and Namibia 
for their effective conduct of the work of the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group  during  the  past  session.  We  assure 
them of our full support in their future endeavours at 
the current session.
15-34703
21/27
A/70/PV.45 
03/11/2015
The  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations 
calls for a highly effective General Assembly as the key 
deliberative,  representative  and  policymaking  organ 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  are  facing  new  issues  and 
priorities  that  demand  efficient  working  methods  and 
new  approaches.  Today  more  than  ever,  the  General 
Assembly  must  address  the  needs  and  interests  of  all 
States, particularly those in vulnerable groups, such as 
the least developed countries, small island developing 
States and landlocked countries. My delegation would 
like to present a few points for consideration.
The  General  Assembly,  due  to  its  comprehensive 
membership,  should  be  able  to  bring  new,  enhanced 
perspectives  to  the  issues  of  peace  and  security  that 
could  add  value  to  the  Security  Council’s  work,  with 
the  two  organs  working  in  close  cooperation  so  that 
they do not compete but rather complement each other. 
Even  though  the  General  Assembly’s  decisions  are 
not  binding,  it  could  facilitate  speedy  and  sufficient 
responses to challenges.
A  revitalized  General  Assembly  should  be  able 
to  meet  the  acute  contemporary  challenges  of  wars 
and  conflicts.  Our  central  task  in  the  twenty-first 
century should be to implement a strategy that would 
completely  eliminate  wars,  their  threats  and  causes. 
For  that  purpose,  President  Nursultan  Nazarbayev 
of  Kazakhstan  proposed  in  the  general  debate  of  the 
seventieth session (see A/70/PV.13) that by the United 
Nations centenary in 2045, a global strategic initiative 
plan  should  be  agreed  to  pave  the  way  for  a  world 
totally free of conflicts, provide fair conditions for all 
nations  to  have  equal  access  to  world  infrastructure, 
resources  and  markets,  and  maintain  comprehensive 
accountability for human development.
With  peace,  security,  sustainable  development, 
human rights and gender equality becoming paramount 
imperatives  today,  the  General  Assembly  agenda  will 
have to be well conceived, structured and sequenced to 
obtain optimal outcomes. Such clear delineation would 
also strengthen the General Assembly’s authority and 
standing.  While  trying  to  preserve  the  principle  of 
consensus, we should avoid weak resolutions and focus 
debates  on  the  substance  rather  than  on  the  process. 
In our striving for inclusion and integration, we must 
ensure  that  results  take  us  to  a  new  level  each  time. 
All  General  Assembly  resolutions  must  be  given  due 
attention  so  that  they  are  implemented  in  a  proper, 
timely and inclusive manner.
In addition, the General Assembly’s agenda should 
be streamlined so as to avoid duplication and allow us 
to  concentrate  on  properly  applying  our  time,  efforts 
and resources to core problems. It is therefore obvious 
that  the  process  of  biennializing  and  triennializing 
resolution  cycles  and  the  periodicity  of  agenda  items 
should  be  undertaken  in  an  appropriate  and  balanced 
way.
My  delegation  wants  to  underline  the  importance 
of the General Assembly’s close collaboration with the 
Secretariat  for  the  purposes  of  internal  coordination, 
greater  rationalization  and  streamlining  the  agenda 
to  avoid  duplication  with  other  bodies  in  the  United 
Nations  system.  Furthermore,  serious  consideration 
must  be  given  to  the  scheduling  of  high-level  events, 
both in terms of number and distribution throughout the 
year, so as to ensure the highest level of participation, 
the  review  of  proposals  and  the  monitoring  of  their 
results and success.
My delegation wants to underline the importance of 
the comprehensive institutional memory of the General 
Assembly. In that regard, we strongly believe that the 
General  Assembly’s  efficiency  and  the  President’s 
abilities and capacity should in no way be confined by 
financial constraints. That is why my delegation joins 
the  call  for  the  greater  allocation  of  funds  from  the 
United Nations regular budget to provide the President 
with wider support from the Secretariat.
We believe that the reform process should encompass 
all the main organs of the United Nations. Along with our 
joint efforts to increase the effectiveness of the General 
Assembly,  the  optimization  of  other  United  Nations 
entities is equally important. To that end, the President 
of  Kazakhstan  has  also  proposed  to  transform  the 
Economic and Social Council into a global development 
council, thereby uniting States Members of the United 
Nations and other United Nations specialized agencies, 
including  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  tasked  to 
become a global economic regulator.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate my country’s 
interest in and readiness to support new efforts and to 
engage in the work on the revitalization of the General 
Assembly.
Mr.  Jinga  (Romania):  We  very  much  welcome 
the  19  October  2015  letter  of  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  informing  Member  States  of  the 
reappointment of the co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group on the revitalization of the work of the General 
22/27 
15-34703
03/11/2015 
A/70/PV.45
Assembly. We believe that it serves as recognition of their 
excellent during the previous session, which culminated 
in the adoption of the cornerstone resolution 69/321. It 
is also a clear indication of the strong commitment of 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  to  promoting 
further  concrete  positive  developments  on  the  matter. 
It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Ambassador 
Vladimir  Drobnjak,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Croatia, and Ambassador Wilfried Emvula, Permanent 
Representative  of  Namibia,  on  their  reappointment. 
I  wish  to  assure  them  of  my  delegation’s  complete 
cooperation.
It  goes  without  saying  that  Romania  aligns  itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  observer  of  the 
European  Union.  I  wish  now  to  make  a  few  brief 
remarks in my national capacity.
We  highly  appreciate  the  call  of  President  of  the 
General Assembly for two important annual debates, to 
be held in conjunction. As we heard in many statements 
delivered on Friday under agenda item 121, concerning 
reform of the Security Council and related matters, the 
two processes are to be considered as complementary 
and  mutually  reinforcing.  We  share  the  view  that  the 
adaptation  process  of  United  Nations  bodies  must 
ensure that the entire system becomes fit for purpose 
and  committed  to  action,  pursuant  to  the  recently 
adopted  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1, annex).
Today, I would like to refer to two concrete aspects 
being  discussed  under  those  agenda  items:  working 
methods and the selection and appointment of the new 
Secretary-General.  Over  the  past  couple  of  years,  we 
have  seen  much  progress  in  making  the  activities  of 
the General Assembly more efficient and in line with 
recent  developments.  Nevertheless,  we  believe  that 
a  lot  more  remains  to  be  done  in  order  to  continue 
rationalizing the agenda. In that context, my delegation 
expresses its appreciation for the work and proposal of 
the Accountability, Coherence and Transparency group.
Along  the  lines  of  the  European  Union’s  call  for 
further  examination  of  the  possibility  of  discussing 
items or introducing resolutions over a longer period, 
I would like to draw attention to the fact that Romania 
and  Germany  have  already  proceeded  in  that  matter, 
including  on  the  First  Committee  draft  resolution 
entitled  “Objective  information  on  military  matters, 
transparency  of  military  expenditures” 
including 
(A/C.1/70/L.17).  We 
to  also 
invite  other  States 
contemplate that possibility, especially as it will have 
been noticed that many new issues are emerging from 
Agenda 2030.
The second aspect that I would like to underline is 
the importance Romania attaches to the process — which 
we  hope  will  begin  soon  —  for  the  selection  of  the 
next  Secretary-General.  We  were  pleased  to  see  the 
constructive way in which delegations worked together 
to  adopt  resolution  69/321  by  consensus,  especially 
the  specific  and  concrete  provisions  on  that  matter. 
We strongly hope that all of them will be implemented 
so  that  the  process  will  become  more  transparent, 
predictable  and  inclusive.  We  look  forward  to  further 
steps,  such  as  the  joint  letter  of  the  Presidents  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  a 
permanent  update  of  the  list  of  candidates,  and  the 
organization of meetings with the candidates, while of 
course fully observing the provisions of the Charter of 
the United Nations.
At  the  same  time,  we  call  on  all  United  Nations 
States Members to pay special attention to the fact that, 
during its 70 years of existence, the Organization has 
never had a representative from Eastern Europe at its 
helm.  We  believe  that  it  is  high  time  to  correct  that 
historical injustice. Member States from the Group of 
Eastern European States have the same great potential 
to  successfully  fulfil  the  challenging  mandate  of 
Secretary-General  as  the  representatives  of  all  other 
geographic  groups  entrusted  with  that  honour  and 
responsibility.
Mr.  Mwinyi  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  My 
delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly for convening this important annual 
joint  debate  on  agenda  items  119  and  120.  We  thank 
and  commend  the  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group on the revitalization of the work of the General 
Assembly for their dedication and continued leadership, 
which  facilitated  the  adoption  of  resolution  69/321, 
whose  celebrated  provisions  will  be  implemented 
during the current session.
We  align  ourselves  fully  with  the  statement 
delivered by the representative of Algeria on behalf of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  and  would  like  to  make 
some additional remarks in our national capacity.
First, we wish to reiterate our keen interest in the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly. 
This chief deliberative policymaking and representative 
organ of the United Nations has tremendous potential 
15-34703
23/27
A/70/PV.45 
03/11/2015
and an even greater role to play in its seventieth year 
of existence. As such, our work towards bolstering its 
role, authority and working methods must be part of the 
overall reform of the United Nations.
the  unfading 
Secondly,  we  welcome 
spirit 
of  multilateralism  that  is  manifested  through  the 
adoption of the resolutions of this organ and its Main 
Committees.  While  welcoming  those  outcomes,  some 
of which have undergone a strenuous process, we wish 
to underline the importance of timely implementation 
by all concerned. We note that a lack of implementation 
only serves to undermine the authority and credibility 
of  this  important  organ  and  its  member  States.  It 
is  imperative,  therefore,  that  we  strive  for  quality, 
not  quantity;  foster  a  culture  of  accountability,  not 
impunity;  and  find  effective  ways  to  rationalize  and 
monitor the implementation of those resolutions.
Thirdly,  we  wish  to  underline  the  importance  of 
cooperation among the principal organs of the United 
Nations in a complementary and mutually reinforcing 
manner,  while  adhering  to  their  respective  mandates, 
in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. 
We  welcome  the  continued  interactions  with  and 
submission of annual reports by the Security Council, 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  Secretariat 
to  the  General  Assembly.  We  would  like  to  see  a 
qualitative  improvement  of  those  reports,  especially 
their analytical aspects. We note with great satisfaction 
the  continuing 
the  General 
Assembly  and  international  and  regional  forums  and 
organizations, as well as civil society, as appropriate. 
The  consultation  with  stakeholders  held  prior  to 
intergovernmental processes is truly commendable and 
illustrative  of  the  partnerships  that  we  must  forge  to 
overcome the complex challenges of our time.
interaction  between 
Fourthly,  we  welcome  the  instructive  provisions 
of  resolution  69/321  pertaining  to  the  selection  of  the 
next  Secretary-General  in  respect  of  the  issuance  of 
the joint letter from the Presidents of the Assembly and 
the Security Council soliciting candidates for this post; 
the publishing of the list of candidates; and the holding 
of  informal  meetings  with  interested  candidates.  We 
believe that, after two decades of championing for gender 
equality  and  female  empowerment,  we  will  witness 
the participation of competent female candidates and, 
we  hope,  the  election  of  the  first  woman  Secretary-
General.  For  Tanzania,  such  a  development  would  be 
an  achievement  commensurate  with  the  seventieth 
anniversary of the Organization, and could serve as a 
precursor for achieving further reform, including of the 
Security Council.
Last  but  not  least,  we  second  the  calls  for 
strengthening the Office of the President of the General 
Assembly.  We  certainly  can  do  more  to  enhance  the 
institutional  memory  of  the  Office,  including  by 
exploring the option of allocating dedicated Secretariat 
staff  to  complement  and  reinforce  staffing  from 
Member States, which is a costly endeavour that many 
developing  countries  cannot  shoulder.  In  that  regard, 
we must review the budget allocation to the Office of 
the  President  with  a  view  to  ensuring  adequate  and 
predictable  resources  to  the  Office.  Failure  is  not  an 
option. The stakes are too enormous. We must strive to 
preserve the authority, credibility and integrity of the 
Office of the President.
Mr.  Adamov  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 
delegation of the Republic of Belarus aligns itself with 
the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Algeria 
on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. We take this 
opportunity to express our gratitude to Algeria for its 
systemic and consistent formulation and promotion of 
the positions of the Movement as one of the key players 
in the process of revitalizing the work of the General 
Assembly.
Our  delegation  fully  supports  the  decision  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session to extend the co-chairmanships of the Permanent 
Representatives of Namibia and Croatia of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group. We note that resolution 69/321, which 
was  formulated  under  their  chairmanship,  contains 
many important and timely elements, including making 
the possibility of reaching a decision on other issues at 
this session. Belarus firmly believes that the valuable 
experience 
the  co-Chairs  have  accumulated  over 
the  past  year  will  enable  them  to  achieve  even  more 
impressive success.
In  our  view,  the  joint  debate  on  the  two  agenda 
items  —  “Implementation  of  the  resolutions  of  the 
United Nations” and “Revitalization of the work of the 
General Assembly” — is symbolic. However carefully 
resolution 69/321 may be worded, it is entirely up to us, 
the States Members of the United Nations, to determine 
whether the resolution will serve as a catalyst for the 
urgent changes needed in the work of the Organization 
or  join  the  remarkable  list  of  unfulfilled  General 
Assembly resolutions.
24/27 
15-34703
03/11/2015 
A/70/PV.45
We commend the efforts to restore the procedures 
for the election of the Secretary-General as envisaged 
in  the  General  Assembly’s  rules  of  procedure.  The 
Belarusian delegation believes that it is crucial to ensure 
that,  for  the  first  time  in  many  years,  no  State  large 
or small is denied a genuine opportunity to express its 
opinion about the candidacies for Secretary-General.
My delegation also hopes to see a substantive and 
open dialogue with the leadership of the Secretariat on 
issues related to the daily work of the Organization. The 
number of outstanding issues and the organization of the 
work needed to address them require action to be taken 
by the General Assembly, as provided for by resolution 
69/321.  That  may  seem  insignificant  considering  the 
challenges and problems facing our Organization, but 
it is precisely on such details that the general context 
and organization of our collective work and, ultimately, 
its effectiveness, depend on. We intend to continue our 
focused and constructive efforts to revitalize the work 
of the General Assembly in the future.
Mr. Sobral Duarte (Brazil): I would like to thank 
the President for convening today’s joint debate, which 
gives  us  an  opportunity  to  discuss  issues  directly 
related to the proper functioning and legitimacy of our 
Organization. We are grateful for his initial comments 
on  the  items  on  the  Assembly’s  agenda  today  and  for 
the  statement  by  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon.  I 
would  also  like  to  commend  the  reappointment  for 
the  Assembly’s  seventieth  session  of  Ambassador 
Vladimir  Drobnjak,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Croatia, and Ambassador Wilfried Emvula, Permanent 
Representative of Namibia, as co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group on the revitalization of the work of the 
General Assembly.
We  support  efforts  to  streamline  the  agenda  and 
working  methods  of  the  General  Assembly  and  its 
Main  Committees.  We  also  support  strengthening 
the  Office  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
which  should  be  provided  with  adequate  resources 
from  the  Organization’s  regular  budget.  We  welcome 
the  President’s  presentation  today  of  his  code  of 
conduct 
transparency, 
accountability,  professionalism  and  effectiveness 
aimed  at  strengthening  our  institutional  memory. 
The consideration of General Assembly resolutions is 
particularly  important.  It  is  essential  that  we  identify 
and  eliminate  constraints  on  their  implementation.  In 
that regard, we encourage the Ad Hoc Working Group 
impartiality, 
for 
integrity, 
to  continue  to  review  and  update  the  inventory  of 
Assembly resolutions on revitalization.
There is a broad consensus that the selection of the 
next  Secretary-General  should  be  more  transparent, 
inclusive  and  democratic.  Member  States  and  civil 
society share that view. Important organizations, such 
as The Elders and 1 for 7 Billion, have recently launched 
successful  awareness  campaigns  about 
issue. 
Resolution 69/321 introduced significant improvements 
into the selection process. It will start with a joint letter 
from  the  Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council,  addressed  to  all  Member  States, 
soliciting  candidates  for  the  position,  and  we  look 
forward  to  that  letter’s  speedy  issuance.  Candidates 
are  expected  to  take  part  in  informal  dialogues  and 
meetings  with  Member  States;  objective  criteria  and 
qualifications will be required; and Member States will 
consider presenting women as candidates.
the 
Among  those  changes,  the  most  transformative  is 
the  organization  of  informal  dialogues  and  meetings 
providing  all  Member  States  with  the  opportunity  to 
interact with candidates and hear their proposals. The 
invitation  to  present  women  as  candidates  is  another 
important  step  forward.  Other  ways  to  address  the 
gender  issue  can  be  considered  as  well.  One  would 
be  to  ensure  that  the  Secretary-General  and  Deputy 
Secretary-General  are  of  different  genders.  Another 
would be to make sure that the next Secretary-General 
is fully committed to the empowerment of women. The 
aforementioned  meetings  with  Member  States  could 
be  an  interesting  occasion  for  testing  the  candidates’ 
credentials on the issue.
We  must  bear  in  mind  that  in  order  to  select  the 
best candidate, it is also necessary to consider the times 
we live in and the specific moment being experienced 
by  the  United  Nations.  Of  the  three  pillars  of  this 
Organization  —  peace  and  security,  development  and 
human rights — that of peace and security is probably 
generating  the  most  visible  credibility  deficit  for  the 
United  Nations.  The  creation  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  the  establishment  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals have provided us with a road map 
for  the  other  two  pillars.  That  of  peace  and  security, 
however,  is  facing  vital  challenges,  both  substantive 
and  with  regard  to  governance.  The  next  Secretary-
General  should  be  able  to  provide  leadership  in  that 
area.  In  addition,  he  or  she  should  be  supportive  of 
more  democratic  and  participatory  ways  to  address 
15-34703
25/27
A/70/PV.45 
03/11/2015
peace  and  security  so  as  to  increase  the  efficiency  of 
United Nations efforts in that regard.
Although  resolution  69/321  will  be  fundamental 
to  strengthening  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
the  selection  of  the  next  Secretary-General,  it  could 
have touched on other aspects of the process that will 
continue  to  warrant  our  attention.  The  first  concerns 
the  possibility  of  the  Security  Council  sending  more 
than one name for consideration by the Assembly. The 
selection  would  be  more  democratic  if  the  General 
Assembly  had  more  options  than  either  approving  or 
rejecting  a  single  candidate.  As  suggested  by  former 
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  the  Security  Council 
could send a list of three candidates to be considered 
by the Assembly.
Secondly,  another  important  item  discussed  in 
the  framework  of  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  the  process  of  appointing  the  other 
executive  heads  of  the  Organization,  including  the 
Deputy  Secretary-General  and  the  Under-Secretary-
Generals,  which  should  also  be  conducted  with  more 
transparency and inclusivity. The practice of reserving 
certain positions for specific countries raises legitimate 
questions.  Article  101  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations clearly states that the paramount consideration 
in the employment of the staff of the Secretariat should 
be  the  necessity  of  securing  the  highest  standards  of 
efficiency, competence and integrity. The same Article 
states 
the  Secretary-General  should  appoint 
members  of  the  Secretariat  according  to  regulations 
established  by  the  General  Assembly.  The  General 
Assembly  should  exercise  that  prerogative  to  ensure 
that these appointments are subject to more transparent 
criteria and made on the basis of merit.
that 
There is a growing demand on the part of Member 
States  and  civil  society  for  more  transparency  and 
accountability  within  the  United  Nations.  The  same 
impetus that prompts Member States to intensify their 
efforts for decisive action on Security Council reform 
during the seventieth session is now expressing itself in 
the widespread support for a democratic, inclusive and 
revitalized  General  Assembly  that  will  fully  exercise 
its role, including on such questions as the selection of 
the Secretary-General.
Mr.  Niyazaliev  (Kyrgyzstan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
This  year  marks 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  United  Nations.  This  special  event  provides  a 
unique  opportunity  to  reaffirm  our  commitment  to 
strengthening  the  role  of  General  Assembly  as  the 
chief  deliberative,  policymaking  and  representative 
organ  of  the  United  Nations  system.  We  must  sieze 
this opportunity not only to note the shortcomings and 
successes of the work of the General Assembly over the 
past 70 years, but also to draft new decisions aimed at 
enhancing its role and authority in line with the Charter 
of the United Nations and relevant General Assembly 
resolutions.
as 
the 
principal 
deliberative 
socioeconomic, 
The  Kyrgyz  Republic  believes  that  the  General 
Assembly, 
and 
representative  organ  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
should play a lead role in resolving issues of peace and 
security;  discussing  and  designing  recommendations 
on 
and 
environmental  problems;  promoting  and  protecting 
human rights; and bolstering friendly relations among 
States.  In  that  regard,  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  advocates 
the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly 
and  enhancing  its  role,  authority,  effectiveness  and 
actities.
cultural,  humanitarian 
The  Kyrgyz  Republic  welcomes 
the  efforts 
undertaken during the sixty-ninth session to improve the 
work of the General Assembly. Above all, we welcome 
the unanimous adoption on 11 September of resolution 
69/321,  entitled  “Revitalization  of  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly.” We support the report of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group on the revitalization of the work of the 
General Assembly (A/69/1007). I take this opportunity 
to thank the co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working Group, 
the Permanent Representatives of Croatia and Namibia, 
for their active and fruitful work during the sixty-ninth 
session, and congratulate them on their reappointment 
to those positions for the current session. Under their 
leadership,  we  will  discuss  four  main  issues:  the  role 
and  authority  of  the  General  Assembly;  the  working 
methods  of  the  General  Assembly;  the  selection  and 
appointment  of 
the  Secretary-General  and  other 
executive heads of agencies within the United Nations 
system; and enhancing the institutional memory of the 
Office of the President of the General Assembly.
The  creation  of  multilingual  web  pages  devoted 
to  this  subject  on  the  website  of  the  United  Nations 
in  all  official  languages  was  very  useful  and  timely. 
Particular attention should be given to the proposals to 
improve the working methods of the Main Committees 
of the General Assembly, submitted by the Chairs of the 
Main Committees at a thematic meeting of the Ad Hoc 
26/27 
15-34703
03/11/2015 
A/70/PV.45
Working Group on the revitalization of the work of the 
General Assembly, held on 14 April.
to adhere to the principles of gender equality and the 
criterion of regional rotation in that regard.
In recent years, much has been done to improve the 
work of the General Assembly, but much remains to be 
done. As asserted in resolution 69/321, it is important 
to enhance cooperation between the General Assembly 
and  the  international  and  regional  organizations  in 
addressing contemporary global problems. In addition, 
the agenda of the General Assembly grows longer every 
year and the number of resolutions continues to grow. 
We  believe  that  particular  attention  must  be  given  to 
streamlining the agenda of the General Assembly and 
enhancing  the  institutional  memory  of  the  Office  of 
the President of the General Assembly. We support the 
proposal to move some agenda items to a biennial and 
triennial basis, and to merge or exclude certain items.
Finally,  I  wish  to  assure  the  President  of  my 
delegation’s  full  support  in  his  efforts  to  revitalize 
the  General  Assembly  and  to  strengthen  its  role  and 
authority.
Mr. Meza-Cuadra (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): Peru 
endorses the statement delivered by the representatives 
of Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement and 
of Estonia on behalf of the Accountability, Coherence 
and Transparency group, respectively.
My  delegation  joins  others  in  recognizing  the 
work carried out during the sixty-ninth session by the 
Ambassadors of Croatia, Mr. Vladimir Drobnjak, and 
Namibia, Mr. Wilfried Emvula, as co-Chairs of Ad Hoc 
Working Group on the revitalization of the work of the 
General  Assembly.  We  welcome  their  re-appointment 
as co-Chairs for this session.
Peru  recognizes  the  importance  of  the  consensus 
adoption  of  resolution  69/321,  which  reaffirms  the 
functions  and  authority  of  the  Assembly,  recognizes 
the pressing need for this organ to review its working 
methods,  commits  resources  to  strengthen  the  Office 
of the President of the General Assembly, and further 
reaffirms  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  in  the 
process of selecting and appointing the next Secretary-
General.  My  delegation  believes  that  this  last  point 
should be given particular consideration given that we 
will  elect  the  next  Secretary-General  next  year.  The 
growing challenges that face our Organization require 
us to strive to identify and designate the best possible 
candidates  for  the  position  of  Secretary-General  and 
When  Article  97  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations was drafted, our predecessors were aware that, 
although  the  Secretary-General  has  a  global  mandate 
to serve all States Members of the Organization, there 
must  also  be  very  close  coordination  between  the 
Secretary-General  and  the  Security  Council  so  that 
the United Nations can achieve concrete results in the 
maintenance of international peace and security.
Bearing in mind the process established in Article 
97 of the Charter, Peru believes that greater interaction 
between the Security Council and the General Assembly 
in the process of selecting and appointing the Secretary-
General of the United Nations is essential. In that regard, 
we appreciate the stress placed in resolution 69/321 on 
the role to be played by the General Assembly — the 
sole  universal  organ  of  our  Organization  in  which  all 
States are equally and democratically represented — in 
that important process.
transparency 
in 
the 
The  procedure  set  out 
in  resolution  69/321 
responds to the demand of the membership for greater 
participation  and 
important 
task  of  choosing  the  successor  of  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-Moon.  We  are  convinced  that  the  proper 
implementation  of  the  provisions  of  that  resolution 
will  give  greater  legitimacy  to  the  way  in  which  the 
next Secretary-General is elected and help us to select 
the best candidate, which will undoubtedly benefit the 
work of whoever assumes the job.
The  President  has  a  twofold  mission.  He  must 
play  an  active  role  in  the  process  of  selecting  and 
appointing  the  Secretary-General  from  the  outset  of 
that process, by issuing a joint letter with the President 
of the Security Council and by convening and leading 
dialogues with the candidates and the membership. He 
also faces the great challenge of ensuring the effective 
implementation  of  resolution  69/321  in  that  process. 
Indeed, implementation is key. We trust in his capacity 
to  lead  that  process  and  his  political  will  to  fulfil 
these mandates, both of which are highlight important 
to  the  Organization.  My  delegation  is  committed  to 
participating actively and constructively in that process.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
15-34703
27/27
