United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
4th plenary meeting
Friday, 25 September 2015, 11 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.4
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 10.50 a.m.
High-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly 
Agenda items 15 and 116
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
United Nations Summit for the adoption of the 
post-2015 development agenda
Draft resolution (A/70/L.1)
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  This  high-level  plenary 
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  is  being  held  in 
accordance with resolutions 65/1 of 22 September 2010, 
68/6  of  9  October  2013  and  69/244  of  29  December 
2014, and decision 69/557 of 5 March 2015.
It  is  my  honour,  together  with  His  Excellency 
Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, President of the Republic 
of  Uganda,  to  welcome  all  members  to  this  historic 
Summit for the adoption of the new 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  (A/70/L.1).  The  presence  of 
so many leaders is a testament to the importance and 
transformative potential of this new Agenda.
When  world  leaders  came  together  here  in  New 
York, 15 years ago, they came with one pivotal mission: 
to reduce poverty in the world. But equally important, 
they came with concrete and ambitious goals and they 
came with a fixed deadline. 
Today, 15 years later, we are gathered again, here 
in New York, to assess what has happened over the past 
15 years. The short answer is a lot. One billion people 
have  been  lifted  out  of  extreme  poverty.  More  girls 
than ever before go to school. More than 90 per cent of 
the  global  population  now  has  access  to  an  improved 
source of drinking water. The mortality rate of children 
under  five  has  declined  by  more  than  half.  These  are 
not just numbers. Behind each of these figures we know 
that the lives of millions of children have improved, so 
we have indeed come a long way. 
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  showed  us 
that setting targets works and that working together is 
the  right  way  forward,  but  the  work  is  not  done  yet. 
Today we begin a new journey, a journey that builds on 
the success of the Millennium Development Goals, but 
also goes much further. We are gathered today to adopt 
the Sustainable Development Goals. Today each of us 
commits our nation not only to new far-sighted visions, 
but also to new concrete and realistic goals and a fixed 
deadline. 
Our leadership and direction are needed. We must 
make  sure  that  we  live  up  to  our  firm  and  collective 
commitments,  and  I  can  assure  the  Assembly  that 
Denmark is ready to do its part. We will continue our 
efforts  to  eradicate  poverty,  create  decent  jobs  and 
increase  sustainable  economic  growth.  Since  1978, 
we  have,  as  a  country,  met  the  international  target 
of  providing  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income  to 
official development assistance to create better lives for 
all.  I  strongly  urge  many  more  countries  to  meet  this 
goal. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29149 (E)
*1529149*
A/70/PV.4 
25/09/2015
Denmark  strongly  supports  global  public-private 
partnerships  that  catalyse  investments  in  developing 
countries  and  middle-income  countries.  We  strive 
to  combat  diseases,  such  as  cancer  and  diabetes,  by 
promoting healthy lifestyles, strengthening our health-
care  systems  and  fostering  scientific  research.  We 
promote the technology in energy, climate change and 
the environment that makes a green transition possible, 
including beyond our own country.
Denmark  will  work  for 
the  full  and  equal 
participation of women, for their empowerment and for 
their human rights and, indeed, for the human rights of 
all. I assure members that Denmark will continue these 
efforts with determination. I encourage everyone to do 
the same so that 15 years from now, when world leaders 
will once again meet in New York, we will have met the 
goals we adopt here today. 
The new Agenda has laid out our vision of where 
we  believe  the  world  should  be  in  2030.  History  will 
judge  us  and  hold  us  accountable  for  achieving  the 
results  that  we  owe  our  children  and  their  children. 
The Danish presidency of the seventieth session of the 
General Assembly will take the lead in implementing 
the  Development  Agenda  to  make  sure  we  turn  our 
words into action. With these words, I wish all members 
a successful Summit. 
I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Yoweri 
Kaguta Museveni, President of the Republic of Uganda 
and Co-Chair of the high-level plenary meeting.
Co-Chair Museveni: I am pleased to co-chair this 
important  Summit  as  we  gather  as  a  community  of 
nations  to  adopt  a  new  development  agenda  that  will 
guide  our  development  efforts  for  the  next  15  years. 
This  historic  Summit  is  the  culmination  of  months 
of  tireless  efforts  and  an  unprecedented  commitment 
by  Member  States  and  stakeholders  to  formulate  a 
universal,  inclusive  and  transformative  development 
agenda.
I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  His  Excellency 
Mr. Sam Kutesa, our Minister for Foreign Affairs, for 
his  leadership  and  accomplishments  as  President  of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session, and I 
thank the General Assembly for supporting Uganda in 
fulfilling that responsibility. I also wish to congratulate 
and  convey  my  appreciation  to  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at 
its  seventieth  session,  His 
Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, and the Secretary-
General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  their 
leadership.
Today heralds the dawn of a new era in our collective 
efforts  aimed  at  eradicating  poverty,  improving  the 
livelihoods  of  people  everywhere, 
transforming 
economies  and  protecting  our  planet.  Together  we 
are  sending  a  powerful  message  to  people  in  every 
village,  every  city  and  every  nation  worldwide  that 
we are committed to taking bold steps to change their 
lives  for  the  better.  The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development that we will adopt today is ambitious in its 
scope and breadth. In the 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), the social, economic and environmental 
dimensions of sustainable development are addressed in 
an integrated way. The Agenda also carries forward the 
unfinished  business  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs).
through 
implementing 
Over the past 15 years, we have attained significant 
achievements 
the  MDGs. 
Globally,  more  than  1  billion  people  have  been  lifted 
from  extreme  poverty,  and  improvements  have  been 
made in access to education, health, water and sanitation, 
advancing  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women.  In  Uganda,  we  have  been  able  to  reduce  the 
percentage  of  people  living  in  extreme  poverty  from 
56 per cent in the year 2000 to 19 per cent today. We have 
also  attained  universal  primary  education,  promoted 
gender equality and the empowerment of women, and 
continued to reduce child and maternal mortality.
it  has  been  clear 
that 
to  sustainably  achieve  the  MDGs  we  must  have 
socioeconomic transformation. It is therefore refreshing 
that  in  the  successor  framework,  the  SDGs,  key 
drivers  of  economic  growth,  including  infrastructure 
development  —  especially  energy, 
transport  and 
information  and  communication  technology  —  have 
been duly identified and prioritized. Also included are 
industrialization  and  value  addition,  human  resource 
development through education and health, improving 
market access, and greater participation by the private 
sector. 
From  our  experience 
While the SDGs will be universally applicable, we 
also recognize national circumstances, different levels 
of  development  and  the  needs  of  countries  in  special 
situations,  particularly  the  least  developed  countries, 
landlocked 
island 
developing States and African countries.
developing 
countries, 
small 
2/26 
15-29149
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.4
Taking urgent action to combat climate change and 
its severe impacts is also prioritized in the new Agenda. 
We should redouble our efforts to reach an ambitious, 
legally  binding  agreement  on  climate  change  in  Paris 
in  November,  one  that  promotes  the  achievement  of 
sustainable development while protecting the planet. 
The  new  Agenda  also  rightly  underscores  the 
important  linkages  between  development,  peace  and 
security, and human rights. We have to intensify efforts 
to combat transnational crime, terrorism and the rise of 
radicalization and violent extremism around the world. 
We  should  reject  pseudo-ideologies  that  manipulate 
identity by promoting the sectarianism of religion and 
communities and eclipse the legitimate interests of the 
people afforded by investment and trade. Where identity 
issues  are  legitimate  they  should  be  expeditiously 
handled.
in 
We  should  all  be  proud  of  what  has  been 
accomplished  so  far  as  we  usher 
the  new 
Development  Agenda.  However,  the  critical  next  step 
will be to ensure its successful implementation on the 
ground.  In  this  context,  integrating  the  SDGs  in  our 
respective  national  and  regional  development  plans, 
mobilizing  adequate  financial  resources,  technology 
development and transfer and capacity-building will be 
critical. We have to ensure full implementation of the 
comprehensive  framework  for  financing  sustainable 
development,  which  we  adopted  in  the  Addis  Ababa 
Action  Agenda,  to  support  achievement  of  the  Goals 
and targets of the 2030 Agenda.
One  of  the  major  challenges  many  developing 
countries continue to face is gaining access to affordable 
long-term financing for critical infrastructure projects. 
In this regard, it will be vital to promptly establish and 
operationalize  the  proposed  new  forum  to  bridge  the 
infrastructure gap and complement existing initiatives 
and  multilateral  mechanisms  to  facilitate  access  to 
long-term  financing  at  concessional  and  affordable 
rates.
The  efforts  of  developing  countries  to  improve 
domestic resource mobilization, boost economic growth 
and  address  major  challenges  such  as  unemployment 
should  be  supported  by  development  partners  and 
international 
regional 
development banks. We also need to do more to promote 
micro-,  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises,  support 
entrepreneurship, especially for women and youth, and 
institutions  and 
financial 
enhance the contribution of the private sector and other 
stakeholders in sustainable development.
the 
Through  privatization, 
least  developed 
countries themselves can also contribute to their own 
infrastructure development. In order to build effective, 
inclusive and accountable institutions at all levels, we 
have to ensure that the voices of the developing countries 
and regions are heard and that they are treated as equal 
partners in multilateral decision-making.
At  the  international  level,  we  need  urgent  reform 
of  the  United  Nations  —  particularly  of  the  Security 
Council — and of our multilateral institutions in order 
to reflect the current geopolitical realities. We need a 
renewed  global  partnership  for  development  in  which 
all  the  commitments  made  —  including  on  overseas 
development,  aid, 
investments  —  are 
fulfilled. While the draft 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (A/70/L.1)  represents 
the  collective 
aspirations  of  all  peoples,  its  success  will  hinge  on 
its ability to reduce inequalities and improve the lives 
of  the  most  vulnerable  among  us,  including  women, 
children, the elderly and persons with disabilities. 
trade  and 
After  months  of 
intensive  negotiations  and 
steadfast  commitment,  we  have  before  us  an  Agenda 
that  represents  our  best  opportunity  to  transform  our 
world.  We  have  heard  the  voices  of  people  spanning 
the  globe  —  from  eager  children  asking  for  access 
to  equality  education  to  young  women  seeking  better 
maternal  health  care;  from  rural  villages  whose 
farmlands have been ravaged by droughts to the coastal 
fishermen  on  small  islands  States  who  fear  that  their 
entire  existence  will  soon  be  subsumed  by  the  rising 
sea levels. We continue to witness the influx of refugees 
and migrants into Europe from Africa and the Middle 
East, which is partially caused by conflict and a lack 
of  economic  opportunities.  Those  voices  may  speak 
many  languages  and  dialects,  but,  in  the  end,  their 
message  is  the  same:  Please  help  us  to  live  happier, 
more prosperous lives, while also protecting the planet 
for our children and grandchildren.
After the adoption of the Agenda, it is incumbent 
upon  us  all  to  take  the  development  aspirations  laid 
out in that document and turn them into reality on the 
ground for the benefit of our people, our communities 
and  our  nations.  The  Agenda  will  create  global 
prosperity  —  different  from  the  past  arrangements, 
which  provided  prosperity  for  some  but  at  the  cost 
15-29149
3/26
A/70/PV.4 
25/09/2015
of  parasitism,  misery  and  underdevelopment  for  the 
others. 
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I now give the floor to the 
Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon.
The  Secretary-General:  We  have  reached  a 
defining  moment  in  human  history.  The  people  of 
the  world  have  asked  us  to  shine  a  light  on  a  future 
of  promise  and  opportunity.  Member  States  have 
responded with the draft 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (A/70/L.1).  The  Agenda  is  a  promise 
by leaders to all people everywhere. It is a universal, 
integrated and transformative vision for a better world. 
It  is  an  Agenda  for  people,  to  end  poverty  in  all  its 
forms, an Agenda for the planet and our common home, 
an Agenda for shared prosperity, peace and partnership. 
It conveys the urgency of climate action. It is rooted in 
gender equality and respect for the rights of all. Above 
all, it pledges to leave no one behind.
The true test of commitment to the 2030 Agenda will 
be its implementation. We need action from everyone, 
everywhere.  The  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
are our guide. They represent a to-do list for people and 
the planet, and a blueprint for success. To achieve those 
new  global  Goals,  we  will  need  high-level  political 
commitment  on  the  part  of  Member  States.  We  will 
need a renewed global partnership.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  showed 
what  is  possible  when  we  work  together.  The  Addis 
Ababa  Action  Agenda  has  given  us  a  solid  financing 
framework.  Let  us  build  on  those  foundations.  To 
do  better,  we  must  do  differently.  The  2030  Agenda 
compels  us  to  look  beyond  national  boundaries  and 
short-term interests and act in solidarity for the long-
term.  We  can  no  longer  afford  to  think  and  work  in 
silos. Institutions will have to become fit for a grand, 
new  purpose.  The  United  Nations  system  is  strongly 
committed  to  supporting  Member  States  in  that  great 
new endeavour.
(spoke in French)
We must enter this new era on the right foot. I ask all 
Governments to adopt a solid and universal agreement 
on  climate  in  Paris  this  December.  I  am  happy  to 
note  that  several  countries  are  already  incorporating 
the  draft  2030  Agenda  in  their  national  development 
strategies, but nobody can succeed alone. All interested 
parties  must  be  mobilized,  as  was  the  case  when  the 
Agenda  was  drawn  up.  We  must  work  together  with 
parliaments and local authorities, with cities as well as 
with  rural  areas.  We  must  enlist  businesses  and  their 
leaders. We must bring civil society into our policies, 
giving  it  the  possibility  of  demanding  accountability 
from  us.  We  must  listen  to  scientists  and  academics. 
We  will  also  need  to  implicate  ourselves  in  the  data 
revolution. Above all, we must get down to work — and 
do so immediately.
(spoke in English)
Seventy  years  ago,  the  United  Nations  rose  from 
the  ashes  of  war.  Governments  agreed  on  a  visionary 
Charter dedicated to “We the peoples”. The draft Agenda 
that the Assembly is adopting today advances the goals 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  It  embodies  the 
aspirations  of  people  everywhere  for  lives  of  peace, 
security and dignity on a healthy planet. Let us today 
pledge to light the path to this transformative vision. I 
count on your strong leadership and commitment.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I 
General for his statement.
thank 
the  Secretary-
In 
accordance  with 
resolution  69/244  of 
29  December  2014,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Salil 
Shetty, Secretary-General of Amnesty International.
Mr. Shetty (Amnesty International): I speak today 
both  on  behalf  of  the  global  Amnesty  International 
movement,  with  over  7  million  members  and 
activists,  and  also  for  many  independent  civil-society 
organizations around the world. 
At  the  outset,  I  congratulate  Member  States  for 
the  remarkable  progress  that  the  world  has  seen  in 
the  form  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
but  increasingly  we  hear  the  question:  Is  our  world 
spinning out of its axis? It can feel that way. Hundreds 
of  millions  of  people  still  live  in  poverty.  Too  many 
people,  particularly  women  and  girls, 
routinely 
suffer  violence  and  multiple  human  rights  violations. 
Inequality,  injustice,  environmental  destruction  and 
corruption are a toxic combination. There is declining 
trust in Governments and big corporations, and young 
people across the world are rising in protest. 
Horrific conflicts are destroying communities and 
countries  and  have  fuelled  the  largest  global  refugee 
crisis since the Second World War. The appalling story 
of the three-year-old Syrian child, Alan Kurdi, whose 
dead body on the beach shocked the world, sums it up. 
We cannot hide the reality of the world we live in. And 
then there is the world we want — a world represented 
by the Sustainable Development Goals to be adopted.
4/26 
15-29149
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.4
We cannot blame people for being sceptical, when 
they  see  yet  another  summit  declaration.  There  is  a 
huge gap between the world we live in and the world we 
want, but the new Goals represent people’s aspirations 
and rights, and they must and can be realized. I therefore 
suggest four practical tests to apply when realizing the 
Goals, so as to prove the sceptics wrong:
First,  there  is  the  ownership  test.  The  key  to 
success  is  for  poor  and  marginalized  people  to  be 
primary  decision-makers  at  every  stage.  The  Goals 
must  be  adequately  resourced  and  integrated  into 
national and local plans and budgets, and they must be 
implemented in line with each State’s existing human 
rights obligations.
Secondly,  there  is  the  accountability  test.  People 
should know exactly what Governments have promised 
and  what  they  have  delivered  —  that  is,  the  right  to 
information. Moreover, if Governments do not deliver, 
people should be able to hold them to account through 
independent mechanisms. It is not enough anymore for 
Governments  to  say  that  they  are  legitimate  because 
they  were  elected  or  they  have  a  mandate.  They  have 
to be accountable to the people directly on an ongoing 
basis.
Thirdly,  there  is  the  non-discrimination  test.  Let 
us be clear. Leaving no one behind means challenging 
power  structures  and  enforcing  the  rule  of  law. 
Inequality is largely the direct result of discrimination 
and exclusion based on gender, race, descent, religion or 
other status. Inequality is the consequence of the failure 
to  protect  the  rights  of  the  marginalized,  indigenous 
peoples, minorities, migrants, persons with disabilities, 
children and the elderly.
Fourthly,  there  is  the  coherence  test.  We  are 
all  aware  of  countries  that  performed  well  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  but  where  outrage 
against  persistent  human  rights  violations  has  led  to 
revolutions. Why is that the case? It is because people’s 
lives  are  not  divided  into  development,  environment, 
peace  and  human  rights;  only  bureaucracies  are. 
Coherence and consistency are therefore essential.
We cannot claim to support sustainable development 
while  we  remain  reluctant  to  reduce  the  consumption 
of the rich or to transfer technology. We cannot preach 
about  human  rights  while  using  mass  surveillance. 
We cannot lecture about peace while being among the 
world’s largest manufacturers of arms. We cannot allow 
our  corporations  to  use  financial  and  tax  loopholes 
while  railing  against  corruption.  We  cannot  adopt 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  in  the  name  of 
development  and,  at  the  same  time,  attack  and  arrest 
peaceful  protesters  and  dissenters.  We  cannot  launch 
those Goals and, in parallel, deny refugees access to a 
safe and legal route and a life with dignity.
The  Sustainable  Development  Goals  present  a 
compass for decent jobs, for justice and for humankind. 
As  members  of  civil  society,  we  will  stand  with 
the  poor  and  the  marginalized  at  all  costs,  and  we 
will  hold  Governments  and  businesses  to  account. 
Yesterday  —  what  was  last  night  in  New  York  but 
yesterday in many parts of the world — thousands of 
people  marched  for  the  Goals  to  light  the  way.  They 
called  for  authentic  leadership  from  Member  States, 
leadership with integrity and leadership from the heart. 
I know that Member States can live up to their hopes.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/70/L.1,  entitled 
“Transforming  our  world: 
the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development”.
in  document  A/70/391, 
In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to  draw  the 
Assembly’s  attention  to  the  note  by  the  Secretariat, 
contained 
the 
programme  budgetary 
the  draft 
resolution.  Accordingly,  the  Fifth  Committee  will 
examine,  during  the  main  part  of  the  session,  the 
revised estimate arising from the draft resolution.
regarding 
implications  of 
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  wishes  to  adopt 
draft resolution A/70/L.1?
Draft resolution A/70/L.1 was adopted (resolution 
70/1). 
Co-Chair Museveni:  I  would  like  to  remind 
members that, in accordance with resolution 69/244 of 
29 December 2014, the list of speakers was created on 
the basis that statements would have a time limit of up 
to five minutes per statement. In light of that given time 
frame, I would like to appeal to speakers to deliver their 
statements at a reasonable pace, so that interpretation 
into the six official United Nations languages may be 
provided properly.
To order to assist speakers in managing their time, a 
light system has been installed at the speaker’s rostrum. 
May  I  appeal  to  all  speakers  for  their  cooperation  in 
observing  the  time  limits  in  making  their  statements, 
so that all those inscribed on the list of speakers for a 
given meeting can be heard at that meeting.
15-29149
5/26
A/70/PV.4 
25/09/2015
Finally,  in  order  to  avoid  disruption  for  the  next 
speaker,  I  would  like  to  seek  the  cooperation  of 
representatives to remain in their seats after a statement 
has been delivered.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Croatia.
Ms.  Kolinda  Grabar-Kitarović,  President  of  the 
Republic of Croatia, was escorted to the rostrum. 
President Grabar-Kitarović: I feel privileged and 
proud  to  be  the  first  among  many  speakers  who  will 
in the next three days mark the end of our momentous 
preparatory  work  on  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals (SDGs) . Our meeting — one of the biggest ever 
in the history of international relations — also serves 
as a historic beginning and a milestone for humankind.
The  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  before 
us  are  not  just  another  chapter  in  the  United  Nations 
bureaucratic procedures. They are not just another tome 
in the endless archives of the Organization. They form 
the blueprint for our development for the next 15 years 
and beyond, a framework and tool for our better future. 
“Transforming our world” — that is not a phrase: it is 
an obligation for all of us.
I want to express Croatia’s gratitude to Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  to  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session,  Sam 
Kutesa, for their exceptional efforts and leadership in 
the  preparatory  process  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.  The  credit  for  that  remarkable  achievement 
goes  to  many  hard-working  people,  but,  above  all,  it 
goes to the 193 States Members of the United Nations, 
which  worked  together  tirelessly  and  reached  an 
unprecedented  consensus  on  the  goals  and  means  for 
our future development.
Some  will  say  that  we  have  too  many  goals  and 
targets.  I  must  disagree  with  that.  Resolution  70/1 
states that this is a “far-reaching and people-centred” 
Agenda. That means that no one is left behind, not the 
landlocked  countries,  nor  the  small  island  States,  so 
perilously  exposed  to  the  hazards  of  climate  change, 
nor those who are in dire need of water, nor those who 
have too much of it, nor the oceans, nor the mountain 
tops;  nor  those  around  the  Equator,  nor  those  on  the 
snow-covered  parts  of  the  planet.  We  are  all  in  this 
together: developed and underdeveloped, providers and 
recipients of assistance, North and South, and big and 
small.
The year 2015 is the turning point in our development 
history,  when  we  recognize  the  achievements  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and we chart 
the  road  for  the  next  15  years.  We  have  to  be  honest 
about  the  MDGs  —  a  lot  has  been  done,  but  not  all 
of  the  Goals  have  yet  been  reached.  That  should  be 
a  warning  and  a  lesson  for  the  future.  Our  ambitions 
must  be  matched  by  our  determination  and  ability  to 
deliver. Today more than ever, we need real leadership. 
We  need  people  who  do  not  just  talk  about  change 
but make change happen. It is not enough to just keep 
speaking  out  against  visible  and  obvious  problems.  It 
is not enough to be aware or to create a vision of the 
future.  Instead,  what  we  need  is  people  who  will  get 
the job done.
We  are  constantly  exposed 
to  well-known 
problems — problems with which we have been coping 
for  many  years  and  with  limited  success  —  and  to 
new challenges that, not so long ago, few were able to 
foresee.  Croatia,  for  example,  has  suddenly  become 
engulfed by the migrant crisis, which was generated far 
from our borders. While we are not the final destination 
point,  that  tide  of  migrants  is  nevertheless  having 
a  profound  impact  on  my  country  and  the  region  of 
South-East Europe. I will speak in detail about that next 
week, during the general debate, but today I use it as a 
telling example of how interlinked and interdependent 
the world has become.
Our world is not just our own. We must pass it down 
to  our  children,  and,  right  now,  what  are  we  leaving 
them?  Therefore  we  have  to  approach  all  17  Goals 
quickly and coherently, with determination and passion. 
There is more to lose than could ever be regained.
In  Addis  Ababa  we  reached  a  groundbreaking 
agreement on how to generate financing for sustainable 
development.  That  was  the  first  step,  and  by  the  end 
of this week we shall take another one, but our work is 
far from done. The next milestone that awaits us is the 
Conference of the Parties in Paris. Only then, with the 
successful outcome of that climate summit, will we be 
able to say that in 2015 we truly set the framework for 
the SDGs.
There was no better way to start this day than to 
listen to the inspirational speech by His Holiness Pope 
Francis earlier this morning, and there is no better way 
to crown our Summit than to forge our commitment to 
implement all of the Sustainable Development Goals by 
2030.  Members  may  rest  assured  that  Croatia  will  do 
its part.
6/26 
15-29149
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.4
Let me end by stressing Sustainable Development 
Goal  5,  on  gender  equality.  An  illustration  of  the 
fulfilment of that pivotal goal is the simple fact that the 
first speaker in this historic debate of ours is a woman. 
I promise Malala that every child will have the right to 
education.
I  want  to  keep  this  global  conversation  going, 
but it is not enough just to meet here once a year and 
maintain our commitments to United Nations initiatives 
and  national  development  strategies.  We  must  take 
ownership of problems that are man-made and therefore 
require  us  to  fix  them.  Without  leadership,  there  is 
no  way  to  ensure  that  anything  will  take  root  and  be 
sustained. Anything less than that is just not enough.
Co-Chair Museveni: I thank the President of the 
Republic of Croatia for her statement.
Ms.  Kolinda  Grabar-Kitarović,  President  of  the 
Republic of Croatia, was escorted from the rostrum. 
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Finland.
Mr.  Sauli  Niinistö,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Niinistö:  It  is  a  great  honour  for  me 
to  address  this  opening  plenary  Summit  that  just 
adopted  resolution  70/1,  containing  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development. I would like to thank the 
Secretary-General  for  his  tireless  work  in  supporting 
the  achievement  of  previous  goals  and  setting  new 
ones. I would also like to thank President Museveni and 
Prime  Minister  Rasmussen  for  chairing  this  historic 
event.
For 15 years, the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) have inspired us in our pursuit of development. 
Significant progress has been made towards achieving 
all of the Goals. Global efforts have helped to lift more 
than 1 billion people out of extreme poverty. To put that 
in perspective, it means 200 times the population of my 
own country, Finland, or 27 times that of Uganda.
Over 1 billion people have better possibilities today 
than  just  15  years  ago.  Today,  more  girls  can  attend 
school than ever before. Progress has also been made 
in the fight against hunger and inequality. That work is 
ongoing. It is also important that the MDGs have kick-
started progress where it has been lacking — especially 
in  Africa,  which  has  seen  unprecedented  economic 
growth and poverty reduction.
Such progress has not been easy or without setbacks. 
Not all of the Goals have been achieved. While progress 
has been made towards achieving all of the MDGs, more 
has been achieved in some cases than in others. Gender 
inequality  and  violence  against  women  are  proving 
to  be  intractable  challenges.  Broad  progress  towards 
gender equality has wavered. That is a challenge that 
we must take seriously. Investing in gender equality is a 
direct path towards poverty reduction, inclusive growth 
and  prosperity.  An  ambitious  agenda  for  achieving 
gender  equality  and  women’s  rights  must  be  matched 
by  ambitious  resources.  We  simply  cannot  solve  the 
world’s problems while keeping half of the population 
out  of  leadership  positions  and  subordinated  to  the 
other half. To achieve that goal, we need to change the 
way that we act and think.
change 
climate 
Another critical factor aside from gender equality 
that we cannot overlook or overcome is environmental 
sustainability.  Addressing 
and 
the  provision  of  health,  food  and  water  requires 
coordinated  global  monitoring  and  the  modelling  of 
several factors — social, economic and environmental. 
That also requires an ambitious climate deal in Paris in 
December 2015. The decisions made at the Conference 
of the Parties to United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change will be the world’s best last chance 
of reaching an agreement on cutting carbon emissions. 
The  changing  climate  is  affecting  the  livelihoods  of 
hundreds of millions of people. The migrations we are 
seeing  in  Europe  this  autumn  are  only  a  sad  prelude 
to what will happen in the future if we fail to achieve 
environmental sustainability.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
is  a  global  deal,  in  which  each  and  every  one  of 
us  is  a  participant  and  is  therefore  responsible  for 
ensuring its success. There is no room for disputes or 
failure — succeed we must. The alternative is simply 
too  costly  in  terms  of  excessive  human  suffering  and 
misery.  We  can  choose  whether  our  legacy  is  one  of 
hope or despair. It is still up to us to decide.
Co-Chair Museveni: I thank the President of the 
Republic of Finland for his statement.
Mr.  Sauli  Niinistö,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of Turkmenistan.
Mr.  Gurbanguly  Berdimuhamedov,  President  of 
Turkmenistan, was escorted to the rostrum. 
15-29149
7/26
A/70/PV.4 
25/09/2015
President  Berdimuhamedov  (spoke  in  Turkmen; 
English text provided by the delegation): This Summit 
on sustainable development is taking place in the year 
of the seventieth anniversary of the establishment of the 
United  Nations,  which  gives  it  a  special  significance. 
Fifteen years have passed since world leaders, for the 
first  time,  determined  the  international  agenda  in  the 
sphere  of  development  and  created  an  international 
mechanism  of  interaction  aimed  at  solving  the  most 
pressing issues of the modern time.
in 
implementing 
Today,  we  can  state  with  confidence  that  the 
the  Millennium 
achievement 
Development Goals will serve as a solid basis for our 
joint actions in the coming 15 years. In addition to that, 
we must achieve the Goals that are still incomplete. In 
that context, the world community of nations needs a 
new global strategy, one based on present-day realities 
and  oriented  towards  long-term  prospects.  The  post-
2015 development agenda, presented for adoption at this 
Summit, is indeed a strategy of that kind. Turkmenistan 
fully supports resolution 70/1 and endorses its adoption.
It  is  our  firm  belief  that  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development — set out in 17 global Goals 
and 169 targets — reflects the main approaches to the 
solution of the development challenges that are facing 
humankind  today.  Its  main  feature  is  the  expressed 
determination of the international community to achieve 
sustainable  development  in  a  balanced  and  complex 
manner in all of its three components: economic, social 
and environmental.
In  view  of  the  aforementioned  factors,  I  am 
convinced  that  the  precise  and  concerted  work  of 
the  international  community  in  implementing  the 
economic  component  of  sustainable  development  will 
facilitate, in many ways, the achievement of the Goals 
of the new Agenda, such as universal access to cheap, 
reliable and modern energy supplies, stable economic 
growth  and  full  employment,  the  creation  of  flexible 
infrastructure and the promotion of innovation. All of 
this  will  eventually  enable  us  to  provide  sustainable 
models  of  production  and  consumption  and  reduce 
inequalities within and among countries. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  achievement  of  the 
Goals  is  linked  to  the  further  improvement  of  the 
existing  partnership  mechanism.  In  that  connection, 
I  believe  that  it  would  be  advisable  to  consider,  at 
one  of  the  forthcoming  meetings  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council,  the  establishment  of  a  new 
global  coordination  mechanism  for  implementing  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Turkmenistan  stands 
ready  to  submit  appropriate  specific  proposals.  I  also 
believe that it would be appropriate, in the context of 
the  implementation  of  the  new  Development  Goals, 
to  invigorate  the  work  of  United  Nations  regional 
commissions in that regard.
One of the main features of the post-2015 agenda 
is its strong social orientation. It is not accidental that 
social  issues  stand  at  the  forefront  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals. Their practical implementation is 
linked  to  the  enhancement  of  the  effectiveness  of  the 
targeted  and  substantive  work  of  Member  States,  as 
well as of the international structures that are directly 
responsible  for  the  achievement  of  global  objectives. 
It  will  therefore  be  necessary  to  harmonize  the  joint 
actions  of  countries  with  the  work  of  such  entities  as 
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), 
the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  World  Food  Programme  in  order  to 
achieve the Goals of eliminating poverty and combating 
hunger, ensuring food security and improving nutrition. 
In  that  connection,  we  propose  that  at  the  seventieth 
session the General Assembly consider the possibility 
of convening a high-level forum on the issue of food. 
We  express  our  readiness  to  work  with  all  interested 
parties to that end.
The problems relating to ensuring a healthy way of 
life occupy a very important place among social issues. 
In  that  regard,  building  closer  partnerships  among 
Member  States  and  the  World  Health  Organization 
and other international organizations will become the 
foundation  for  the  successful  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
The  new  international  agenda  should  include  the 
issue  of  comprehensive,  just  and  quality  education 
among its top priorities. It is our profound conviction 
that  the  United  Nations  should  actively  promote 
the  implementation  process  by  fostering  a  broad 
international  dialogue  and  introducing  new  national, 
regional and global programmes in the field of education. 
Turkmenistan is prepared to actively and constructively 
cooperate  with  appropriate  United  Nations  bodies  in 
the  field  of  education.  We  consider  UNDP,  UNESCO 
and UNICEF to be our major partners.
Gender  equality  is  the  key  element  in  the  global 
development  strategy.  We  have  set  a  lofty  goal  for 
ourselves,  that  is,  to  achieve  full  gender  equality  and 
8/26 
15-29149
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.4
to empower all women and girls. The fulfilment of that 
goal is our common duty and shared responsibility. In 
that connection, we welcome the initiative of Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon to hold a summit of world leaders 
on gender equality in New York on 27 September.
Turkmenistan’s permanent neutrality. In availing myself 
of this opportunity, I would like to express, on behalf of 
the people of Turkmenistan, my profound gratitude to 
all Member States for the firm and unwavering support 
of my country’s neutral status.
By adopting the Sustainable Development Goals as 
a programme for our joint efforts for the forthcoming 
15  years,  we  are  aware  that  the  social  and  economic 
development  of  the  States  and  peoples  of  the  planet 
cannot  be  achieved  without  solving  the  problems  of 
climate  change  and  the  environment.  In  that  context, 
we  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  its 
Secretary-General  to  identify  effective  measures  for 
reducing global environmental risks. The United Nations 
summits and international conferences convened over 
the past few years have made a substantial contribution 
to the solution of problems relating to the protection of 
the world’s environment.
In early December, we will have to adopt important 
decisions  that  will  have  momentous  significance  for 
the entire world at the Conference of the Parties to the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change, to be held in Paris. Turkmenistan stands ready 
to support the signing of an international agreement on 
climate issues and will actively advance that idea during 
the  time  left  before  the  Conference.  Furthermore, 
I  would  like  to  recall  that  our  country  officially 
presented its concept with respect to the strengthening 
of  international  environmental  cooperation  and  has 
submitted  a  number  of  specific  proposals  at  various 
conferences. 
The  initiative  regarding  the  establishment,  in 
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations,  of  a  regional 
climate-change  centre  for  Central  Asian  States  is 
among  those  initiatives.  Being  committed  to  the 
implementation of that idea, Turkmenistan is ready to 
undertake, together with UNDP, steps in 2016 towards 
the establishment of such a centre in Ashgabat.
The year 2015 is a special year in Turkmenistan and 
in the life of its people. This year we mark the twentieth 
anniversary of the adoption of resolution 50/80 A on the 
international recognition of Turkmenistan’s permanent 
neutrality.  The recent past has vividly demonstrated the 
effectiveness of the foreign policy of neutrality pursued 
by  our  country  and  its  correspondence  to  the  long-
term  interests  of  the  international  community.  That 
is  confirmed  by  the  fact  that,  on  3  June,  the  General 
Assemble  adopted  resolution  69/285  dedicated  to 
An  international  forum  dedicated  to  the  issues  of 
neutrality,  peace  and  development  will  be  held  in  the 
capital  of  Turkmenistan,  in  the  city  of  Ashgabat,  on 
12 December. Allow me to renew, from this high podium, 
an  invitation  to  the  Heads  of  State  or  Government  of 
Member States to visit our country during that period 
and to take part in the celebrations of Turkmenistan’s 
permanent neutrality.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  in 
particular  that  Turkmenistan  will  continue  to  develop 
close international cooperation in the name of upholding 
the lofty ideals of peace and justice and fulfilling the 
goals and purposes of the United Nations Organization.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  I  thank  the  President  of 
Turkmenistan for his statement.
Allow  me  once  again  to  remind  members,  as 
colleagues  and  representatives,  that  in  accordance 
with resolution 69/244 of 29 December 2014, the list of 
speakers was created on the basis that statements will 
have a time limit of up to five minutes.
Mr.  Gurbanguly  Berdimuhamedov,  President  of 
Turkmenistan, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I  want  to  reinforce  the 
statement  that  the  Co-Chair  has  just  made  about  the 
five-minutes  rule  so  that  all  the  people  on  the  list 
are  able  to  speak.  We  do  not  have  sanctions.  These 
reminders are our means of implementation.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the 
President of the Republic of Colombia.
Mr. Juan Manuel Santos Calderón, President of the 
Republic of Colombia, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Santos  Calderón  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
feel  deeply  honoured  to  participate,  on  behalf  of  the 
Colombian  people,  in  this  Summit,  where  we  have 
convened  to  affirm,  with  unequivocal  conviction  and 
firmness,  our  commitment  to  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  the  17 
Sustainable Development Goals contained therein.
A few years ago, concerned with the continuity of 
the Millennium Development Goals, Colombia proposed 
15-29149
9/26
A/70/PV.4 
25/09/2015
some goals that would integrate in a balanced manner 
the  three  dimensions  of  sustainable  development:  the 
economic, the social and the environmental dimensions. 
I  am  happy  to  report  that  that  proposal  was  adopted 
at  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development and became the highest-profile outcome 
of the Conference. 
Subsequently,  we  were  part  of  the  Open  Working 
Group  of 
the  General  Assembly  on  Sustainable 
Development Goals. Our Minister for Foreign Affairs 
was  a  member  of  the  High-level  Panel  on  the  Post-
2015  Development  Agenda.  Today,  Colombia  is  part 
of the Inter-Agency and Expert Group on Sustainable 
Development  Goal  Indicators.  My  country  commends 
and welcomes those Goals because we know that they 
are  the  necessary  conditions  for  building  peace,  and 
in  turn,  peace  in  Colombia  will  reap  unimaginable 
dividends,  precisely  in  the  economic,  social  and 
environmental areas. It will be a virtuous circle.
In the next 15 years, all of the countries of the world, 
united,  must  overcome  our  three  greatest  challenges: 
eradicating  poverty  in  all  its  dimensions,  combatting 
inequality and injustice, and tackling climate change.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  guided  us 
towards a more egalitarian present, and in my country 
we have made significant progress, which is reflected 
in  a  better  quality  of  life  for  the  most  vulnerable 
Colombians.  Today,  for  the  first  time  in  Colombia, 
there are more people who are part of the middle class 
than there are people living in poverty. Poverty, on the 
basis of income, has declined over the past five years by 
about 12 percentage points, which represents a decrease 
of  4.4  million  in  the  number  of  Colombians  living  in 
poverty. That has made us one of the Latin American 
countries  in  which  poverty  has  been  reduced  to  the 
greatest extent in recent years. Something similar has 
occurred with regard to extreme poverty, where more 
than 2.5 million people have been able to overcome that 
condition. Another very important achievement is the 
headway we are making in reducing inequality.
There remains, of course, a great deal to be done. For 
that reason, the challenge before us today is to increase 
those achievements and make them irreversible. In our 
country,  we  have  established  the  goal  of  eradicating 
extreme poverty over the course of a decade, i.e. by the 
year 2025, in addition to achieving levels of excellence 
in  education  and  ensuring  that  all  our  children  can 
receive an education.
All of those actions will take place in the context 
of  an  overarching  strategy  of  green  growth.  Our 
commitment to the fight against climate change stems 
from  two  realities:  first,  we  are  the  second  most 
biodiverse  country  in  the  world  in  terms  of  square 
kilometres,  but,  at  the  same  time,  we  are  extremely 
vulnerable to the effects of climate change, which has 
hit us particularly hard.
for 
the  next 
Our  development  plan 
four 
years  —  and  we  were  perhaps  the  first  country  to 
take  such  a  step  —  was  designed  with  the  view  to 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals as a first 
step  towards  the  irreversible  eradication  of  poverty, 
and  towards  a  development  that  improves  the  human 
condition and preserves the environment. I say it is a 
first step because what we want is for the new Agenda 
to be carried out and built upon by my Government and 
be adopted by future Governments as well.
We  have  already  established  in  Colombia  an 
inter-agency  committee,  with  the  participation  of 
regional representatives, civil society, the private sector, 
academia,  the  media  and  international  organizations, 
to  coordinate  the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals and to design the working methods 
and the methods for evaluation, measuring and, above 
all, follow-up, because if we want to make appropriate 
decisions, we need to have reliable indicators that show 
us where we are, how we can move forward and where 
we  are  falling  behind.  Colombia  has  also  agreed  to 
be  part  of  the  high-level  group  for  the  support  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
We  are  well  aware  that  tomorrow  is  not  a  thing 
of  the  future,  but  that  it  is  built  today  with  efforts 
undertaken now. That is why it gives us hope that the 
United  Nations,  in  its  seventieth  year,  has  adopted 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  with 
which we not only identify, but to which we are fully 
committed. We must all contribute; we must all act and 
profoundly  transform  our  countries.  Colombia  today 
affirms its response to this call for a better and more 
human future.
Co-Chair Museveni: I thank the President of the 
Republic of Colombia for his statement. 
Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
10/26 
15-29149
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.4
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Arab Republic 
of Egypt. 
Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi,  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt, was escorted to the rostrum. 
President Al Sisi (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
allow me to convey to the Assembly, on behalf of the 
great  people  of  Egypt,  their  greetings,  respect  and 
appreciation. The people of Egypt rose to confront and 
transform extremist ideologies that struck people like 
Malala Yousafzai and others, and they will transform 
them.
I would like to thank the President of the General 
Assembly  for  convening  this  important  Summit  and 
express  my  appreciation  for  the  invaluable  efforts 
we have all exerted throughout the last three years to 
formulate  a  new  post-2015  multilateral  development 
agenda.  We  are  happy  to  see  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  for  the  next  15  years  has 
been adopted (resolution 70/1). In this forward-looking 
Agenda,  we  set  unprecedented  objectives  to  eradicate 
poverty, 
sustainable 
development  and  provide  adequate  health  care  and 
education for all.
eliminate  hunger, 
achieve 
In the past few years, we have witnessed intensive 
international efforts to create an enabling environment 
for  sustainable  development  for  all.  The  momentum 
of  this  endeavour  has  reached  its  peak  over  the  past 
few  months,  starting  with  the  third  International 
Conference on Financing for Development, which was 
held in Addis Ababa in July, and continuing until the 
final formulation of the post-2015 development agenda 
before us. 
In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the 
importance  of  including  all  sectors  of  society  in  the 
development process to which we aspire. We need fair 
and balanced development that is beneficial to all, and 
above all to women. Experience has shown again and 
again  that  women  in  all  walks  of  life  play  a  pivotal 
role  in  the  political,  economic  and  social  spheres.  In 
addition,  women  have  a  deep  sense  of  responsibility 
and are the first to answer the call of their homeland. 
Egypt  effectively  participated  in  all  phases  of 
drafting  and  formulating  the  Development  Agenda. 
We have had a clear vision throughout, which we have 
strongly  defended.  We  believe  that  any  international 
effort to achieve sustainable development must take into 
consideration the policy space for developing countries 
and their sovereign right to adopt appropriate national 
economic  and  social  programmes  with  development 
priorities  that  are  in  line  with  the  specificities  and 
needs of each region.  
Attaining our right to development and providing 
decent  standards  of  living  were  among  the  utmost 
priorities  of  the  Egyptian  people  when  they  rose  to 
reshape their future. In that vein, in March we launched 
the 2030 sustainable development strategy, which aims 
to  achieve  comprehensive  and  inclusive  economic 
development,  improve  the  investment  environment 
and  promote  human  capital.  In  addition,  the  strategy 
endeavours to attain social justice and provide decent 
jobs for all Egyptians.  
The  launch  of  our  national  strategy  to  support 
and develop the Egyptian economy coincided with the 
Egypt  Economic  Development  Conference,  held  in 
March.  The  Conference  witnessed  wide  international 
participation from Governments and the global business 
community.  The  great  success  of  the  Conference  was 
further  evidence  that  the  international  community 
considers  the  stability  of  Egypt  the  cornerstone  for 
stability in the Middle East as a whole.
Realizing  the  pivotal  role  of  Egypt,  last  month 
we  inaugurated  the  new  Suez  Canal.  This  crowned 
the  efforts  of  the  great  people  of  Egypt,  who  were 
able  in  just  one  year  not  only  to  dig  an  international 
navigational  channel,  but  also  to  launch  a  gigantic 
development project that constitutes a major component 
of a new national development plan, which will enable 
Egypt  to  become  a  regional  and  international  hub  for 
trade and investment.
While we are hopeful today as we meet to adopt an 
ambitious Agenda that puts the development objectives 
of  the  global  community  on  a  sustainable  path,  we 
are concerned, as the tools available to implement the 
Agenda are not commensurate with the expected level of 
ambition and the magnitude of the existing challenges. 
The  imbalance  in  capacities  and  differences  in  levels 
of  development  demand  differentiated  responsibilities 
and  commitments  for 
the  different  members  of 
the  international  community.  There  is  a  historical 
responsibility borne by those who have the capacities 
towards those who do not.
In addition, the international community must deal 
effectively  with  other  global  challenges  that  hinder 
sustainable  development,  especially  terrorism,  which 
15-29149
11/26
A/70/PV.4 
25/09/2015
has  become  an  international  phenomenon  that  is  not 
confined to the borders of our Arab region but extends 
to many countries in the world. The Egyptian people, 
in their quest for reconstruction and development, are 
facing the most dangerous extremist terrorist ideology. 
They confront, with strength and determination, those 
who  seek  to  undermine  development  and  disrupt  the 
aspirations of our people of a better life and a brighter 
future.
In  conclusion,  let  me  reaffirm  that  development 
has  always  been  a  historical  right  of  all  countries. 
Pursuing this right today has become an absolute must 
for  achieving  coexistence.  This  requires  providing 
the necessary support to developing countries in their 
journey towards sustainable development and a life of 
dignity for their people.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the President of the 
Arab Republic of Egypt for his statement. 
Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi,  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt, was escorted from the rostrum. 
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
a statement by the Prime Minister, Minister for Finance, 
National  Security,  Grenadines  and  Legal  Affairs  of 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. 
Mr. Ralph Gonsalves, Prime Minister, Minister for 
Finance, National Security, Grenadines and Legal 
Affairs  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
Mr. Gonsalves (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): 
We have gathered together at this special assemblage of 
world  leaders  to  adopt  a  comprehensive,  far-reaching 
and people-centred set of universal and transformative 
goals and targets, known collectively as the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), to take humankind further 
along  the  journey  of  a  global  development  quest, 
fashioned 15 years ago as the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  We  have  before  us  today  17  SDGs, 
identified separately but bound tightly in an integrated 
whole,  to  realize  the  mighty  ambition  to  make  lives 
far better, and sustainably so, for all of us who occupy 
Mother Earth, especially those who have had to endure 
the pain and anguish of indigence, poverty, vulnerability 
and marginalization.
We  have  arrived  at  the  SDGs  after  much  stock-
taking and reflection in our conversation on the post-
2015  development  agenda.  Solid  and,  in  many  cases, 
spectacular progress has been made on targets embedded 
in the MDGs. Still, as always, much more remains to be 
done, and time is not on the side of the almost 1 billion 
persons globally who currently live in extreme poverty. 
It is a damning indictment of our world civilization that 
one  in  five  persons  in  its  developing  regions  lives  on 
less than $1.25 per day. 
Fundamentally,  faith  and  reason  have  brought 
us  together  to  adopt  the  SDGs  and  to  build  upon 
the  achievements  of  the  MDGs  to  end  poverty, 
promote  prosperity  and  well-being  for  all,  protect  the 
environment  and  address  climate  change.  But  faith  is 
not an abstraction and reason is not a fanciful construct. 
All the major world religions correctly advise that faith 
is  made  perfect  with  works  and  made  complete  with 
deeds, and reason must always be grounded in the real 
conditions  of  life  and  living.  Always,  too,  we  must 
apply our hearts to wisdom.
Making  Mother  Earth  a  better  place  for  all  of  us 
to  live  means  that  our  deeds  must  match  our  words. 
I  acknowledge  that  the  world  is  a  complicated  place 
awash  with  contradictions  and  that  humankind  is  not 
perfect.  Surely,  it  is  still  unacceptable  for  our  global 
economy to be designed and elaborated in practical ways 
to condemn nearly a billion persons to a life of abject 
poverty.  Clearly,  the  current  model  of  a  perverse  and 
environmentally destructive global capitalism needs to 
undergo fundamental restructuring for the SDGs to be 
accomplished. Nor will they will be achieved if there 
is  failure  in  SDG  17,  which  mandates  a  revitalization 
of the global partnership for sustainable development. 
My  country,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
like  all  small  island  developing  States,  has  a  special 
vulnerability  to  the  deleterious  effects  of  climate 
change.  The  poor  throughout  the  world  suffer  most 
from  the  maddening  acceleration  of  global  warming. 
For us in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, this matter 
represents an existential issue of our survival, yet we 
contribute nought to this looming danger.
in 
immense  progress 
Over  the  past  17  years,  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines  has  made 
the 
attainment of the MDGs touching and concerning the 
eradication  of  extreme  poverty,  achieving  universal 
primary  and  secondary  education,  promoting  gender 
equality, reducing child mortality, improving maternal 
health,  combating  HIV/AIDS  and  other  infectious 
diseases,  and  ensuring  environmental  sustainability. 
We  commit  to  consolidating  and  building  upon  these 
accomplishments  and  pursuing  in  a  focused  way  the 
12/26 
15-29149
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.4
Sustainable Development Goals over the next 15 years 
with the help of our global partners.
It is true that the challenging global times in which 
we live make the achievement of the SDGs a difficult 
exercise,  but  our  world  civilization  must  rise  to  this 
awesome challenge. Failure will result in an apocalypse 
too horrendous to contemplate. We are at the crossroads 
of a historic and unprecedented opportunity to do far 
better  for  all  humankind,  but  especially  for  the  poor. 
Let us resolve to do so. Let not our hands be idle; let 
not  our  faith  waver;  and  let  not  our  combined  reason 
desert us. Let us simply shape a better future, together, 
with love.
Co-Chair Museveni: I thank the Prime Minister, 
Minister  for  Finance,  National  Security,  Grenadines 
and Legal Affairs of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 
for his statement. 
Mr. Ralph Gonsalves, Prime Minister, Minister for 
Finance, National Security, Grenadines and Legal 
Affairs  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  was 
escorted from the rostrum. 
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister and Minister of 
Reform of the Republic of Cabo Verde. 
Mr. José Maria Pereira Neves, Prime Minister and 
Minister of Reform of the Republic of Cabo Verde, 
was escorted to the rostrum. 
Mr.  Pereira  Neves  (Cabo  Verde)  (spoke 
in 
Portuguese;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): 
First of all, I would like to extend my warmest greetings 
to all the Heads of State and Government, the Secretary-
General and all the delegations present at this historic 
global Summit for the debate and for the consensus that 
has been reached so far and for the crucially important 
resolution 70/1, which has been adopted for the future 
of  humankind.  Indeed,  we  are  deciding  on  how  to 
transform our world by 2030 because we wish to live 
in  a  much  better  world  that  guarantees  sustainable 
development, prosperity and opportunity for all.
In  2000,  in  our  common  home  that  is  the  United 
Nations,  we  made  the  commitment  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015.  Today,  15 
years  later,  we  can  proudly  say  that  it  was  worth  the 
effort and that the world is a much better place, although 
not  all  Goals  have  been  achieved  and  not  all  have 
honoured  their  obligations.  We  are  once  again  being 
called upon to make new commitments, now oriented 
towards  sustainable  development,  to  be  fulfilled  by 
2030.  Each  one  of  our  countries  is  responsible  for  its 
own  development,  but  as  Pope  Francis  said,  we  will 
have to adopt the ethics of global citizenship and share 
responsibilities.
At  the  time  of  its  independence  in  1975,  Cabo 
Verde  was  considered  inviable  as  a  country.  The 
conditions  under  which  it  began  its  history  as  a 
sovereign nation were extraordinarily difficult. A small 
island developing State comprising a series of islands 
and  without  any  traditional  natural  resources,  Cabo 
Verde  was  characterized  by  drought,  desertification, 
the scarcity of water, famines and emigration. Now, 40 
years later, thanks to the determination of Cabo Verdean 
women and men in the islands and in the diaspora, good 
governance  and  hard  work,  we  are  a  middle-income 
country and on track to achieving all the Millennium 
Development Goals and their related targets.
We have come a long way. However, we are aware 
of  the  great  challenges  we  have  to  face,  particularly 
poverty,  which  still  affects  nearly  a  fourth  of  the 
population, and the high unemployment rate, especially 
among youth and women with little professional skills. 
We must also deal with climate change and its effects. In 
2003, with the strong participation of local authorities, 
civil 
society,  enterprises  and  non-governmental 
organizations, we shared a development agenda aimed 
at  building  a  modern,  competitive,  prosperous,  fair 
and  inclusive  nation  with  opportunities  for  all  and  at 
transforming Cabo Verde into an international service 
centre  and  a  logistics  platform  on  the  West  African 
coast.
In  2014,  we  evaluated  our  implementation  of 
that  agenda,  redefined  its  methods  and  timetable  and 
committed  to  building  a  developed  Cabo  Verde  by 
2030. Our main ambition is to raise the current $3,800 
per capita gross domestic product to at least $12,000, 
and to achieve a high human development index based 
on  strong  investments  in  education,  health,  social 
security,  housing,  land  planning  and  management, 
infrastructure and water mobilization. In order to meet 
those  objectives,  we  must  speed  up  the  pace  of  our 
economic growth and build a green and blue economy 
that  is  dynamic,  sustainable,  innovative  and  able  to 
create jobs and promote progress and social well-being, 
a fair and inclusive economy that can eradicate poverty, 
fight inequality and create opportunities for all.
Small island developing States face huge obstacles to 
their sustainable development: difficulties in accessing 
15-29149
13/26
A/70/PV.4 
25/09/2015
financing,  high  costs  for  transportation,  energy  and 
infrastructure and social, economic and environmental 
vulnerabilities.  Along  with 
lower-middle-income, 
African,  least-developed  and  landlocked  developing 
countries, they therefore deserve special attention from 
the international community if they are to meet all their 
commitments  directed  at  achieving  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals by 2030. 
Cabo  Verde 
therefore  fully  supports 
today’s 
resolution  70/1,  “Transforming  our  world:  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development”. We will do our 
homework and work to build partnerships and bridges 
that  will  enable  us,  in  a  win-win  scenario,  to  help 
humankind, build a developed and prosperous country 
and contribute to making the world a better place.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Prime Minister 
and Minister of Reform of the Republic of Cabo Verde 
for his statement.
Mr. José Maria Pereira Neves, Prime Minister and 
Minister of Reform of the Republic of Cabo Verde, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair Museveni: The Assembly will now hear 
a  statement  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of 
Finance of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas.
Mr. Perry Gladstone Christie, Prime Minister and 
Minister  of  Finance  of  the  Commonwealth  of  the 
Bahamas, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Christie  (Bahamas):  We  are  meeting  at  a 
historic  moment,  as  we  leaders  adopt  resolution  70/1 
on  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  It 
is the hope of the people of the Commonwealth of the 
Bahamas that we are agreeing to a new agenda that is 
people-centred,  planet-sensitive  and  inclusive  in  its 
approach  to  development,  grounded  in  the  common 
values  and  principles  that  we  as  the  United  Nations 
espouse.
I am pleased to be here today to revisit the themes 
I  addressed  last  year  —  the  environment,  crime  and 
security  and  the  education  and  training  of  our  young 
people. What is more interesting is that this is a time to 
be here when His Holiness Pope Francis — whom I had 
the honour and privilege to meet just before Christmas 
in 2013 — has come to speak to us. In his encyclical 
Laudato Si’, issued on 24 May, His Holiness reminds us 
that the Earth is our common home, a gift from God. He 
says that the Earth cries out to us because of the harm 
we have inflicted on it through our irresponsible use of 
the goods with which God has endowed it.
What more can we say? It is clear that as we adopt 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs),  we  must 
keep  in  mind  our  responsibility  to  protect  the  Earth, 
its  resources  and  its  people.  We  can  be  proud  of  the 
successes  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  that 
we set for ourselves way back in 2000. It goes without 
saying that there is much more to be done to eradicate 
poverty,  eliminate  substandard  housing  and  infant 
mortality,  improve  gender  equality  and  the  rights  of 
the disabled, and end racism, crime, violence and war. 
Those themes are at the top of the Bahamian agenda.
The Government of the Bahamas is committed to 
the full and effective implementation of the Sustainable 
Development Goals and to building a stronger and more 
sustainable  Bahamas.  We  are  fully  aware  that  we  are 
primarily  responsible  for  our  national  development, 
a  responsibility  that  we  have  never  shied  away  from. 
Recent  events  have  shown 
that  small  countries 
must  have  the  resilience,  elasticity  of  response  and 
institutional  infrastructure  needed  to  withstand  the 
economic  shocks  that  may  come  from  unexpected 
directions. Our international economic partners, as well 
as private investors and financial institutions, all have 
a role in making sure that this resilience is sustained, 
particularly as we look towards managing the biggest 
issue of all — climate change.
I have come here today to renew our commitment 
to  protecting  our  oceans  and  their  species,  migrating 
by 2030 to renewable sources of energy and making a 
sustained  effort  to  educate  the  public  on  our  need  to 
do so. We will need the assistance of the international 
community. 
The Bahamas, along with the rest of the Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM),  has  long  held  that  per 
capita  gross  domestic  product  should  not  be  the  sole 
determinant  of  the  economic  support  given  to  our 
region, and that our vulnerability to economic and other 
exogenous  shocks  must  also  be  taken  into  account. 
Indeed,  the  collapse  of  a  single  large  investor  can 
throw  an  entire  country  out  of  whack.  Similarly,  one 
hurricane can wipe out the gross domestic product of an 
entire country three times over. That was sadly evident 
in the tragic loss of life and widespread damage caused 
by the devastating passage of Tropical Storm Erika over 
our sister CARICOM island nation of Dominica at the 
end of August.
14/26 
15-29149
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.4
Those  kinds  of  shocks  have  produced  the  high 
levels of indebtedness that we in CARICOM face today. 
They  have  certainly  challenged  our  ability  to  achieve 
internationally  agreed  development  goals.  It  therefore 
becomes increasingly important for our renewed global 
partnership  to  meaningfully  address  those  issues 
in  order  to  buttress  our  attempts  to  implement  the 
new  Development  Agenda,  including  the  SDGs.  The 
Bahamas is pleased that the new Agenda speaks to the 
sustainable  development  challenges  that  we  all  face. 
It  represents  a  firm  political  commitment  to  leaving 
no  one  behind  and  ensuring  a  sustainable  future  for 
present and future generations. 
As we agree here on the SDGs and targets, we also 
agree to align them with national priorities and anchor 
them in our national plans for sustainable development. 
As we implement the new Agenda, we must continue to 
acknowledge that small island developing States (SIDS) 
remain  a  special  case  for  sustainable  development,  in 
view  of  their  unique  and  particular  vulnerabilities, 
including to the adverse effects of climate change.
It is important that the new Development Agenda 
will  lead  up  to  a  climate  treaty  to  be  signed  in  Paris 
later  this  year.  It  is  the  position  of  SIDS  that  to  put 
the world on a pathway at or below an increase of 1.5° 
Celsius,  the  Paris  agreement  must  establish  a  global 
legally binding framework with commitments that are 
strong enough to reverse the current upward emission 
trends  by  2020  and  to  ensure  that  fossil-fuel  carbon 
dioxide  emissions  from  the  energy  and  industrial 
sectors  are  reduced  to  zero  by  2050.  The  survival  of 
SIDS must be the benchmark for the 2015 agreement, 
and  developed  countries  must  honour  their  financial 
commitments  under  the  Copenhagen  Accord  of  the 
2009 Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change and provide 
adequate means of implementation, including through 
capitalization of the Green Climate Fund.
The  stage  has  already  been  set,  and  we  have 
delivered  a  robust  agenda.  But  our  work  has  only 
just begun, and exactly how the next scenes will play 
out  remains  to  be  seen.  What  we  can  be  certain  of, 
however, is that our world of more than 7 billion people 
is watching and waiting in the hope that we will rise to 
the challenge of truly transforming it. 
Nowhere is that challenge more important than in 
educating, training and preparing our young people for 
the future. In the area of education, my Government has 
committed to serving the needs of every demographic 
of  our  population,  able  and  disabled,  young  and  old. 
We recognize education’s continued role in supporting 
efforts  to  achieve  economic  growth  and  eradicate 
poverty, as well as being a tool for socialization.
As  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  say  that  I  am 
particularly  concerned  about  the  young  people  of  the 
world.  We  have  an  obligation  to  them  to  address  the 
joblessness  and  sense  of  hopelessness  that  pervade 
our  planet.  I  want  to  bequeath  to  them  a  sustainable 
world,  free  of  violence,  war  and  crime,  and  a  fair 
chance  to  access  the  economic  benefits  of  the  world. 
I say again that if we fail to address that, we do so at 
our peril. I leave the Assembly, then, with the wish that 
we recommit to being the shepherds and protectors of 
Mother Earth.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister and Minister of Finance of the Commonwealth 
of the Bahamas for his statement.
Mr. Perry Gladstone Christie, Prime Minister and 
Minister  of  Finance  of  the  Commonwealth  of  the 
Bahamas, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  a  statement  by  the  Chancellor  of  the  Federal 
Republic of Germany.
Ms.  Angela  Merkel,  Chancellor  of  the  Federal 
Republic of Germany, was escorted to the rostrum.
Ms. Merkel (Germany) (spoke in German; English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  In  a  few 
days’ time, we in Germany will celebrate 25 years of 
German unity. In Europe we will celebrate the end of 
the Cold War. What was a divided Europe has grown 
together  in  peace  and  freedom.  For  decades,  many 
dreamed of that, but few believed it could ever happen. 
Today,  however,  we  know  that  nothing  is  obliged  to 
remain  the  same,  and  that  change  —  change  for  the 
better  —  is  possible.  We  also  know  that  every  great 
plan has its seed in our minds.
At  this  event  today,  we  are  united  by  our  goal  of 
eradicating  poverty  by  2030,  another  that  not  so  long 
ago  was  too  often  dismissed  as  a  pipedream.  But 
now,  15  years  after  the  adoption  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  we  can  see  that  it  can  in  fact  be 
achieved. We have already come halfway. Poverty has 
been halved, giving us every reason to believe that we 
will achieve the next stage too. We want to change our 
world, and we can. We want to give it a more humane 
15-29149
15/26
A/70/PV.4 
25/09/2015
face, and we can. That is the goal of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). To that 
end,  we  are  adopting  new  goals  that  cover  the  entire 
spectrum  of  global  sustainable  development  and 
that  apply  to  all,  industrial  and  developing  countries 
alike. If we are to achieve them, we need a new global 
partnership.
In  order  to  establish  such  a  partnership,  we  first 
need  effective  structures  at  every  level  –  national, 
regional  and  global.  That  is  why  Germany  plans  to 
further  develop  its  national  sustainability  strategy 
in  the  light  of  the  2030  Agenda.  As  early  as  2016, 
Germany will be one of the first States to report on its 
implementation of its national strategy at the high-level 
political forum on sustainable development. Germany 
also  supports  regional  organizations  and  partnerships 
that can enable us to combine our efforts. Furthermore, 
we are committed to strong global structures that can 
help  us  deal  with  challenges  that  would  overwhelm 
individual States. 
The Ebola epidemic in West Africa was one such 
challenge.  It  was  also  a  painful  warning  that  made  it 
abundantly  clear  that  effective  cooperation  among 
all  stakeholders,  with  a  reformed  World  Health 
Organization  at  the  centre,  is  absolutely  crucial. 
Together  with  Ghana  and  Norway,  we  have  asked  the 
Secretary-General to establish a high-level panel aimed 
at identifying the right lessons to be learned from the 
epidemic  and  ensuring  that  the  world  will  be  able  to 
respond faster and more effectively in future. Seventy 
years since it was founded, the United Nations, with its 
unique  legitimacy,  is  still  essential  when  it  comes  to 
resolving the issues facing humankind. But it, too, must 
adapt to new challenges. Germany will play an active 
part in the necessary reform process.
Secondly, a global partnership needs the necessary 
financial  resources,  while  resilient  structures  will 
enable us to make more efficient use of those resources. 
The  Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  held 
in  Addis  Ababa  in  July  showed  how  we  can  mobilize 
those  resources.  Germany  stands  by  its  commitment 
to  devoting  0.7  per  cent  of  its  annual  gross  domestic 
product to development assistance, and our budget for 
development assistance will increase substantially over 
the next few years. But while State support is important, 
it  can  be  only  one  aspect  of  that  assistance.  Private 
investment is also crucial to our States’ development, 
and mobilizing it must be a policy focus for us.
In Paris at the end of this year, at the Conference of 
the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention 
on  Climate  Change,  we  want  to  adopt  an  ambitious 
climate agreement that will oblige all States to do more 
to  protect  the  environment.  The  agreement  would  fix 
the  framework  for  a  path  of  sustainable  development 
that  can  ensure  that  global  warming  remains  below 
2°  Celsius.  To  achieve  that,  we  need  a  shared  vision 
of  how  to  end  carbon  emissions  at  a  global  level  by 
the  end  of  this  century.  And  to  do  that  we  also  need 
the  right  kind  of  investment.  It  is  important  that  the 
industrialized  countries  —  and  Germany,  as  one  of 
them, will do its part — stick to the pledge they made in 
Copenhagen and, beginning in 2020, make $100 billion 
a  year  available  to  developing  countries  to  help  them 
protect  the  environment.  That  will  help  to  create  the 
belief that all countries in the world can develop in a 
climate-friendly  way  and  that  vulnerable  countries  in 
particular will get the help they need to adapt to climate 
change.
Peace  will  always  be  the  key  prerequisite  for 
successful development. Yet millions of people — more 
than  at  any  time  since  the  Second  World  War  —  are 
being  forced  to  flee  war,  terror  and  violence.  Their 
suffering is exacerbated by their lack of prospects for 
the future and by the destruction of their environment. 
Anyone who has witnessed the suffering of those who 
have  left  their  homes  to  seek  protection  and  a  future 
elsewhere, and who is aware of the challenge facing the 
countries that are taking them in, knows that in the end 
there can be only one solution, which is that we must 
tackle the causes of their flight and expulsion.
The  2030  Agenda  provides  the  right  framework 
for that. It balances the economic, environmental and 
social aspects of development. Each and every one of 
us should — indeed must — work to implement it so 
that  people  the  world  over  can  live  lives  of  dignity. 
That must be our shared ambition. By agreeing on the 
Agenda,  we  are  laying  the  groundwork  for  efforts  to 
tackle the issues. Our priority now is to work for that 
end  at  every  level,  national,  regional  and  global,  and 
that is what Germany will do.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  I  thank  the  Chancellor  of 
the Federal Republic of Germany for her statement.
Ms.  Angela  Merkel,  Chancellor  of  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
16/26 
15-29149
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.4
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of India.
Mr. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of India, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Modi  (India)  (spoke  in  Hindi;  English  text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  That  towering  figure  of 
our  times,  Mahatma  Gandhi,  once  said  that  we  must 
also  care  about  the  future  world  that  we  ourselves 
will  never  see.  And  indeed,  whenever  the  world  has 
risen collectively to meet its obligations to the future, 
humankind has made progress in the right direction and 
gained in strength.
Seventy  years  ago,  when  a  catastrophic  world 
war  ended,  the  Organization  represented  the  birth  of 
a new hope. Today, we have gathered here once again 
to chart a new course for humankind. I would like to 
commend the Secretary-General for organizing today’s 
very  important  Summit.  The  vision  behind  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) 
is  lofty,  and  its  Goals  are  equally  comprehensive.  It 
gives priority to problems that have persisted over the 
past decades and reflects our evolving understanding of 
social, economic and environmental issues.
It is gratifying that we all share a vision of a world 
without poverty. Its elimination is our number-one Goal. 
Some 1.3 billion people in the world today are forced 
to live a life of wretched poverty. But the question we 
face is neither merely about how to meet the needs of 
the poor, nor is it simply a question of their dignity or 
of  respect  for  them,  or  of  our  moral  responsibility.  If 
our shared vision is of a just, peaceful and sustainable 
world,  that  can  never  be  possible  as  long  as  poverty 
still  exists.  Eliminating  it  is  therefore  the  greatest 
obligation we have. A great Indian thinker, Pandit Deen 
Dayal  Upadhyay,  placed  the  welfare  of  the  poorest  at 
the centre of his thoughts, and that is also what we see 
in the 2030 Agenda. It is a happy coincidence that in 
India we are beginning the celebration of Deen Dayal’s 
hundredth anniversary today.
We  welcome  the  prominence  the  Agenda  gives 
to  environmental  goals,  especially  those  relating  to 
climate  change  and  sustainable  consumption,  and  we 
particularly welcome the focus on the future of island 
States and the specific Goal on ocean ecosystems. I have 
always been a proponent of the blue revolution, which 
encompasses the protection and development of small 
island States, as well as of the lawful and appropriate 
use  of  marine  resources  and  open  skies.  Those  three 
aspects are all connected.
It  is  a  matter  of  great  satisfaction  for  us  in  India 
that  much  of  the  country’s  development  agenda  is 
mirrored in the Sustainable Development Goals of the 
United  Nations.  Ever  since  we  gained  independence 
we have nurtured the dream of eradicating poverty as 
well. We have chosen the path of empowering the poor, 
with  education  and  the  development  of  skills  as  our 
priorities. We are working on providing the poor with 
that  education  and  those  skills.  We  have  made  it  our 
mission to achieve financial inclusion within a specific 
time  frame.  We  have  opened  180  million  new  bank 
accounts,  which  I  believe  is  the  greatest  conceivable 
way to empower the poor, since it enables benefits to 
be  directly  transferred  to  them.  We  are  also  making 
progress with an ambitious project for giving insurance 
benefits to the poor. Very few people in India have the 
benefit of pensions, and we are working on providing 
them to the poor. Today even the very poorest have a 
new hope of being able to fight and overcome poverty. 
Our citizens are now confident that they will be able to 
realize their dreams.
All  over  the  world,  when  we  speak  of  economic 
development, we usually limit ourselves to discussing 
two sectors: the public and the private. What we have 
done  is  to  focus  on  a  new  sector,  which  we  define  as 
the  personal,  represented  by  individual  enterprise,  so 
that  we  have  the  private,  public  and  personal  sectors.  
For us, that individual enterprise sector includes small 
enterprises, micro-finance, innovation and start-ups.
Our priorities are housing, power, water, education, 
health  care  and  sanitation  for  all.  All  are  essential  to 
a  life  of  dignity.  In  order  to  achieve  them,  we  have 
created concrete initiatives and a specific time frame. 
The empowerment of women is an integral part of all 
our  development  programmes.  We  have  a  programme 
with  the  slogan  “Save  the  girl  child,  educate  the  girl 
child”  that  we  have  taken  to  every  household  in  the 
country.
We are trying to make our farms more productive 
and better connected to markets, and our farmers less 
vulnerable to the vagaries of nature. We are working to 
revive manufacturing and improve the service sector, and 
we are investing in infrastructure on an unprecedented 
scale. We are making our cities smart and sustainable 
and  turning  them  into  engines  of  progress.  We  are 
committed to a sustainable path to prosperity, and that 
15-29149
17/26
A/70/PV.4 
25/09/2015
commitment stems from our traditions and culture. At 
the same time, it also demonstrates our commitment to 
the future. I represent a culture that regards the Earth as 
our mother, for there is a saying in our ancient texts that 
the Earth is our mother and we are her children.
Our  national  plans  are  ambitious  and  purposeful. 
Over  the  next  seven  years,  we  plan  to  build  new 
capacity  totalling  175  gigawatts  of  renewable  energy. 
We  are  focusing  on  energy  efficiency  and  carrying 
out afforestation on a large scale. We have imposed a 
carbon  tax  and  are  reforming  our  transportation  and 
cleaning up our cities and rivers with a waste-to-wealth 
movement.  I  believe  that  ensuring  the  sustainable 
development  of  the  one  sixth  of  humankind  that  our 
population represents will have great consequences for 
the sustainable development of our beautiful planet. It is 
clear that such a world would be one of fewer challenges 
and more comprehensive hopes and aspirations, and I 
think that we can be confident that we would succeed.
We will share our success and resources with others. 
In  the  Indian  tradition,  we  see  the  world  as  a  family, 
and as our texts say, the wise regard the entire planet as 
one family. Today, India is fulfilling its responsibilities 
as a development partner in Asia and Africa, and with 
small island States from the Pacific to the Atlantic.
All  nations  have  a  national  responsibility  for 
sustainable  development.  At  the  same  time,  they  also 
need space in which to make their own policies. We are 
here at the United Nations today because we all believe 
that international partnerships should be at the centre 
of  our  efforts,  whether  directed  towards  development 
or  the  challenges  of  climate  change.  The  bedrock  of 
our collective enterprise is the principle of common but 
differentiated responsibilities.
When we speak of climate change, there is a hint, 
unspoken or not, of safeguarding what we already have. 
But when we speak of climate justice, the responsibility 
of saving the poor from the vagaries of climate will help 
us to develop a positive attitude. It is important to focus 
on solutions to the challenges of climate change that can 
help us reach our goals. We should forge a global public 
partnership  to  harness  technology,  innovation  and 
finance  in  order  to  make  clean  and  renewable  energy 
available to all. We must also work to effect changes in 
our lifestyles that can make us less energy-dependent 
and our consumption more sustainable. It is also vital 
that we launch a global education programme that can 
prepare  future  generations  for  the  task  of  protecting 
and conserving nature.
I hope that the developed countries will meet their 
financial  commitments  in  the  area  of  development 
and climate change without in any way lumping them 
together.  I  also  hope  that  the  Technology  Facilitation 
Mechanism can help make technology and innovation 
into  effective  instruments  for  the  global  public  good, 
not just for private profit.
We have seen that distance does not insulate anyone 
from challenges, which can rise out of the shadows of 
conflict  and  deprivation  in  distant  lands.  The  entire 
world  is  connected.  We  are  all  dependent  on  one 
another, so we must focus on the good of humankind 
in our international partnerships. We must also reform 
the  United  Nations,  including  the  Security  Council. 
That is essential if we are to ensure that our institutions 
have  greater  credibility  and  legitimacy.  With  a  more 
broad-based  representation,  we  can  be  more  effective 
in achieving our goals.
We must work towards shaping a world where every 
individual  can  look  forward  to  a  future  of  security, 
opportunity and dignity. We have the responsibility of 
leaving behind a better environment for the generations 
to  come.  I  believe  there  can  be  no  greater  cause  or 
challenge  than  that.  At  the  United  Nations,  we  are 
called  to  rise  to  that  challenge,  employing  all  of  our 
wisdom, experience, generosity, compassion, skill and 
technology. I am confident that we can.
In conclusion, let me express my good wishes and 
hopes for everyone’s well-being with these lines from 
our ancient texts: “May all be happy, may all be healthy, 
may all know well-being, and may there be no sorrow 
of any kind”.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I  thank  the  Prime  Minister 
of India for his statement. As he represents 1.2 billion 
people and exceeded the time limit by 13 minutes, that 
equals one minute for every 100 million people.
Mr. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of India, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of Ireland.
Mr.  Enda  Kenny,  Prime  Minister  of  Ireland,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Kenny (Ireland): I am honoured to address this 
historic  Summit.  Transforming  our  world  is  not  only 
ambitious but essential. The actions of each nation are 
absolutely critical to how we will live together on this 
planet that we call home.    
18/26 
15-29149
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.4
On  our  small  Atlantic  island,  the  Irish  people 
carry the generational memory of occupation, hunger, 
conflict and mass emigration. As a result of our history, 
we  have  a  deep  commitment  to  addressing  suffering 
and  hardship  wherever  they  are  found.  Our  past  has 
taught  us  that  no  one  country  can  stand  alone  in  an 
interconnected  world.  Global  challenges  need  global 
responses.
The suffering of men, women and children — people 
just  like  the  people  of  all  of  our  countries  —  caught 
up  in  conflict  and  hardship  through  no  fault  of  their 
own,  requires  a  response  that  draws  on  our  common 
humanity  and  our  common  compassion.  As  we  meet 
today, we are facing humanitarian challenges on a scale 
not seen since the Second World War.  
In  Europe  we  find  ourselves  responding  to  a 
refugee  crisis  that  has  its  origins  not  just  in  conflict 
but  in  abject  poverty  and  underdevelopment.  Ireland 
will  therefore  work  closely  with  our  European  Union 
partners to save life and to give the chance of new life 
to people trapped in conflict and trapped in poverty. 
But  we  have  to  have  equal  focus  on  tackling  the 
causes that motivate people to flee their homes in the 
first place and to risk their lives for an uncertain future. 
That  is  why  the  agreement  adopted  at  this  Summit 
(resolution 70/1) is so vital to guarantee not just hope 
but sustainable lives and futures.
From  the  beginning,  Ireland  has  been  very  clear 
on  what  is  needed:  first,  an  agreement  galvanizing 
action; secondly, action to end extreme poverty, hunger 
and undernutrition and make better, faster progress on 
gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women  and 
young girls; and, thirdly, action to promote the critical 
role of good governance and the rule of law.
This  what  we  commit  to  in  our  country:  our 
development  aid  programme  will  continue  to  be 
central to our foreign policy; we will continue to work 
to  achieve  the  United  Nations  0.7  per  cent  target  for 
development assistance; we will continue to focus our 
aid  on  the  poorest  countries,  especially  in  Africa,  as 
we have been doing for many years; and we will work 
relentlessly  with  our  partners  for  the  elimination  of 
extreme hunger and malnutrition by 2030.
Let  me  therefore  salute  the  vision  and  tireless 
efforts  of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  in  leading 
us to this point.
Our  country,  Ireland,  was  honoured  to  play  its 
part  in  co-facilitating  intergovernmental  negotiations 
with  Kenya.  I  would  like  here  to  thank  Ambassador 
Donoghue and Macharia Kamau for the extraordinary 
work that they did in getting 193 countries to agree to 
this Summit proposal.
Today’s  agreement,  however,  is  the  work  of  all 
the States Members of the United Nations. In the Irish 
language, we have a saying: “We live in the shelter of 
each other” — a shelter that our human family in the 
Middle East is now looking for urgently.
Our  shared  future  and  our  shared  humanity  are 
evident  not  only  in  what  we  do  but  in  the  mutual 
recognition that we are “kind” together. At this Summit, 
here  in  New  York,  we  have  shared  our  vision  for  life 
and its living with our own “kind” in our own “home”.
This morning, the world listened to Pope Francis. 
What  did  he  say?  He  said  that  human  beings  take 
precedence over everything else. So now, united nations 
of the world, let us act in the interests of those people.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I  thank  the  Prime  Minister 
of Ireland for his statement. He finished right on time; 
I congratulate him. 
Mr.  Enda  Kenny,  Prime  Minister  of  Ireland,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair Museveni: I now call on the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Jamaica.
Mr. Nicholson (Jamaica): I am pleased to represent 
the  Government  and  the  people  of  Jamaica  at  this 
Summit  to  adopt  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1).
The year 2015 has been pivotal and decisive for the 
international  community.  We  celebrate  the  seventieth 
anniversary of the United Nations, recalling its origins 
as  an  institution  that  rose  from  the  ashes  of  war  to 
embody the hopes and aspirations of peoples around the 
world for peace and development.
From  the  Third  World  Conference  on  Disaster 
Risk  Reduction,  held  in  Sendai  in  March,  to  the 
Third  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development,  held  in  Addis  Ababa  in  July,  to  this 
Summit, the States Members of the United Nations have 
been working together to develop solutions to some of 
the  most  vexing  and  complex  challenges  confronting 
our nations.
15-29149
19/26
A/70/PV.4 
25/09/2015
that 
We  remain  hopeful 
level  of 
commitment  to  tackling  multidimensional  challenges 
through global action will continue through the end of 
the  year,  to  our  next  meeting  in  Paris  at  the  Climate 
Change Conference.
this  high 
The 2030 Agenda was designed to be transformative 
and to ensure that people are placed at the centre of the 
development  process  and  that  our  stewardship  of  the 
planet is characterized by our respect for its resources. 
Indeed, the Agenda has the potential, if properly funded 
and implemented, to change the lives of our peoples, to 
protect the planet and to engender prosperity in ways 
we are yet to realize.
Jamaica stands fully behind the 2030 Agenda. We 
believe that it is a worthy successor to the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  For  while  the  MDGs 
provided a useful tool for focusing development efforts, 
this  Agenda  will  help  ensure  that  these  efforts  are 
sustainable.
It is no coincidence that it is an Agenda for people, 
planet,  prosperity,  peace  and  partnerships.  These 
are  the  ingredients  that  will  make  for  a  world  free  of 
extreme poverty, where prosperity can be achieved and 
sustained.
At  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development held in Rio de Janeiro in 2012, we made 
a  clear  commitment  to  shift  the  paradigm  towards 
sustainable development and away from the fragmented 
approach that until then had dominated the treatment of 
development issues. The 2030 Agenda makes good on 
that commitment.
However,  while  we  laud  the  breadth  of  the  new 
agenda, we must also acknowledge that this is the very 
quality that will make it difficult for it to be effectively 
implemented.  Significant  external  support  will  be 
required in many cases. In this regard, we are pleased 
with the commitment to a more robust and revitalized 
global partnership for sustainable development. We must 
work,  therefore,  to  ensure  that  the  global  partnership 
does not fall behind. This is one lesson we have learnt 
from the MDGs: that deviation from our commitment 
to partnership can lead to underachievement.
We are conscious of the fact that implementation of 
the Agenda requires financing from a range of sources, 
inclusive of domestic, international, public and private 
sources,  as  well  as  capacity-building  support  and  the 
transfer  of  appropriate  technology.  We  are  therefore 
pleased  that  the  Technology  Facilitation  Mechanism 
is being launched at this Summit. Access to scientific 
research,  technology  and  innovation  is  central  to  our 
efforts to ensure successful implementation.
As  a  small  island  developing  State  (SIDS)  and 
a  middle-income  country,  Jamaica  is  familiar  with 
the  range  of  challenges  that  attend  both  categories. 
We  know  that  SIDS  in  particular  will  face  numerous 
challenges in their implementation efforts. We welcome 
the support for SIDS that has been built into the Agenda, 
particularly in relation to the means of implementation. 
We look forward to working with other members of the 
international community to ensure that SIDS are able to 
make effective use of this support. We are particularly 
attentive to the need for capacity-building in the areas 
of data collection and statistical analysis, given that in 
the absence of these capabilities it would be difficult, 
if not impossible, to measure our progress. We would 
not wish to be left behind in the wake of the advances 
facilitated by the ongoing data revolution. After all, the 
basic premise of the Agenda is to leave no one behind.
journey 
towards  achieving  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  We  must  forge  ahead  in  the  knowledge 
that the Agenda is emblematic of the range of challenges 
that are currently before us. We must therefore remain 
committed to this Agenda and work together to tackle 
the challenges and embrace the opportunities. Jamaica 
is firmly of the view that it is only through joint action 
at the international level and adherence to the principles 
of multilateralism that we will be able to achieve our 
development aspirations.
the  beginning  of  our 
is  but 
This 
Let  us  not  be  daunted  by 
the  estimated 
multi-trillion-dollar  price  tag.  We  must  each  do  our 
part,  in  keeping  with  our  respective  capabilities, 
to  ensure  that  succeeding  generations  are  truly  the 
beneficiaries of the future that we want. We owe no less 
to  the  current  and  future  inhabitants  of  our  planet.  I 
have no doubt that we are equal to the task ahead.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  The  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  of  Jamaica  exceeded  the  time  limit  by  two 
minutes. That is not so disastrous.
I now call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire.
Mr. Diby (Côte d’Ivoire) (spoke in French): Let me 
at the outset convey to you, Co-Chair Rasmussen and 
Co-Chair  Museveni,  the  warm  congratulations  of  His 
20/26 
15-29149
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.4
Excellency Alassane Ouattara, President of the Republic 
of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  on  your  well-deserved  appointment 
to  chair  this  special  United  Nations  Summit  for  the 
adoption  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  The 
President would have very much liked to participate in 
this special Summit, but national obligations prevented 
him from attending.
I would also like to pay tribute to Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon, whose determination to work for a better 
world for all has resulted in the elaboration of the new 
Development Agenda that we are discussing here.
I  pay  tribute  also  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session,  the  eminent 
personalities and the various groups of experts whose 
commendable efforts provided us with the outstanding 
resolution on the Agenda for Sustainable Development 
that we have just adopted (resolution 70/1).
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  Report  2015 
shows that tremendous progress has been made, which 
is very welcome. However, as many challenges remain 
that have yet to be taken up, this new, more ambitious 
and more transformative Development Agenda takes on 
even greater importance and relevance.
In  Côte  d’Ivoire,  during  the  2012-2015  period, 
significant progress was made in the implementation of 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in several 
areas.
In  the  health  sector,  infant  mortality  fell  sharply 
since  2002,  from  181  to  125  per  1,000  in  2015.  The 
maternal mortality rate dropped from 597 per 100,000 
live births in 1998 to 544 in 2015. In the fight against 
HIV/AIDS,  indicators  of  progress  are  satisfactory 
overall, with the prevalence rate decreasing to 1.8 per 
cent in 2013/2014.
This  year  the  Government  adopted  a  mandatory 
education policy. Beginning this school year, education 
is now compulsory and free of charge for all children 
aged  6  to  16.  With  these  achievements,  the  challenge 
for our country now is to continue the efforts already 
undertaken  in  order  to  develop  the  social  sectors  and 
to increase infrastructure investment so as to promote 
rapid growth.
Côte  d’Ivoire  fully  supports  the  new  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  which  is  based  on  17 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The 11 major 
themes  underpinning  the  SDGs  figure  prominently 
in the priorities of Côte d’Ivoire. Indeed, the national 
development  plan  covering 
already incorporates the SDGs, as will future plans.
the  period  2016-2020 
In  addition,  Côte  d’Ivoire  has  created  an 
institutional  and  legal  framework  for  the  protection 
of  the  environment  and  the  promotion  of  sustainable 
development. The upcoming meeting of the Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, in Paris, will enable us 
to agree on clear, firm and binding commitments.
One  of  the  major  challenges  currently  facing  the 
Ivorian  Government  is  to  work  together  with  elected 
officials,  civil  society  and  the  private  sector  for 
national ownership of the SDGs. My delegation would 
therefore  invite  the  United  Nations  system  and  all  of 
our  development  partners  to  support  Côte  d’Ivoire  in 
this endeavour.
Co-Chair  Museveni:  I  congratulate  the  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Côte  d’Ivoire  for  finishing 
exactly on time, which is excellent.
I now call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago.
Mr.  Dookeran  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  On  behalf 
of  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Trinidad  and 
Tobago, I have the honour to address the Assembly on 
this occasion for the adoption of the global 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). I wish to 
applaud the efforts of all those who worked tirelessly to 
ensure that while this Agenda is truly global in scope, 
it  preserves  legitimacy  and  relevance  at  the  regional 
and  local  levels.  It  is  aspirational  yet  achievable  and, 
though  grounded  in  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs), is more comprehensive and integrated 
and therefore more coherent in its application.
A few weeks ago, Trinidad and Tobago celebrated 
the  fifty-third  anniversary  of  its  independence  as  a 
sovereign  State  and,  exactly  one  week  ago  today,  its 
fifty-third year as a proud Member of the United Nations. 
On  the  occasion  of  our  independence,  the  first  Prime 
Minister of Trinidad and Tobago, Mr. Eric Williams, in 
his national address spoke of the aspirations of a small 
fledgling  nation  on  the  global  stage  in  the  following 
terms:
“You hope soon to be a member of the world 
family  of  nations,  playing  your  part,  however 
insignificant, in world affairs. You are on your own 
in a big world in which you are one of many nations, 
some small, some medium-sized, some large. You 
15-29149
21/26
A/70/PV.4 
25/09/2015
are nobody’s boss, and nobody is your boss. What 
use will you make of your independence?”
Fifty-three  years  on,  as  I  stand  here  today  to 
herald  the  endorsement  by  Trinidad  and  Tobago  of  a 
new global Sustainable Development Agenda, I reflect 
with  satisfaction,  and  indeed  with  a  great  sense  of 
national pride, upon our several contributions to global 
affairs. I am much gratified that our Founding Father 
would  conclude  that  our  independence  has  not  been 
squandered.  This  ground-breaking  Agenda,  anchored 
in the principle that “no one shall be left behind”, is one 
that should represent a triumph for all States, including 
the small and the marginalized. Indeed, it marks a new 
phase  in  the  focus  of  multilateralism  and  represents 
the evolution of the United Nations as a dynamic body 
capable of responding to emerging needs and challenges 
and reflecting the diversity of its membership.
It  is  therefore  fitting  that,  as  the  international 
community  commemorates  70  years  of  the  existence 
of  the  United  Nations,  we  should  also  launch  a  new 
collective vision for the peoples of the world for the next 
15 years. Trinidad and Tobago endorses this new global 
Development  Agenda.  This  Agenda  consolidates  the 
progress made by the family of nations in the context 
of  the  MDGs  and  compels  us  all  to  do  more  to  lift 
humanity out of extreme poverty and marginalization 
on a sustainable basis through enhanced international 
cooperation in the economic, social, environmental and 
cultural spheres, while promoting universal respect for 
human rights.
Trinidad and Tobago’s implementation of the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  will  be  guided 
by  its  own  national  sustainable  development  strategy, 
which seeks to implement the Sustainable Development 
Goals  through  12  strategic  priority  areas  over  the 
period  2015  to  2025.  Our  intention  is  to  place  strong 
emphasis  on  the  social  and  economic  empowerment 
of  our  people 
incentivizing  sustainable 
growth and diversification, achieving macroeconomic 
stability,  job  growth,  respecting  the  International 
Labour Organization principle of decent work and the 
protection of the environment.
through 
It  is  our  intention  to  achieve  these  aims  through 
a  progressive  programme  of  institutional  reform; 
the  establishment  of  a  permanent  mechanism  for 
improved dialogue among the social partners, namely, 
Government,  labour  and  the  private  sector  and  other 
elements  of  civil  society;  and  focused  interventions 
for  improvement  in  data  collection  and  analysis.  We 
recognize that the fulfilment of the Goals and targets 
of this Agenda will require the availability of accurate, 
timely,  high-quality  and  disaggregated  data.  We  are 
therefore pleased to note that the strengthening of data 
and  statistical  systems  is  one  of  the  areas  for  which 
small  island  developing  States  will  be  prioritized  for 
assistance 
international 
cooperation.
through  partnerships  and 
Despite  its  middle-income  status,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago,  as  a  small  island  developing  State,  is  still 
grappling  with  many  developmental  challenges  that 
are exacerbated by its size, lack of economies of scale, 
openness  and  a  disproportionate  dependence  on  a 
limited number of resources. These challenges result in 
a high degree of vulnerability to exogenous economic 
and environmental shocks. Although we have achieved 
success in implementing the majority of the Millennium 
Development Goals, concerns still persist in a number 
of areas.
Consequently,  we  stress  the  importance  of  the 
revitalization of the global partnership for development, 
the  parameters  of  which  are  established  in  the  Addis 
Ababa  Action  Agenda.  We  submit  that  a  necessary 
element  of  this  revitalized  partnership  must  be  the 
continued  recognition  of  the  special  case  of  small 
island  developing  States  and  the  unique  development 
challenges they face, and of the need to design financial 
tools and facilities to effectively respond to these issues. 
We  wish  to  highlight  that  a  key  area  of  outstanding 
work, which should be completed as soon as possible, 
is the design of new and broader indices of development 
that complement gross domestic product per capita.
Trinidad and Tobago believes that the cornerstone of 
the integrated Sustainable Development Agenda should 
be  the  development  of  tools  to  measure  and  monitor 
implementation that is fit for purpose. As a responsible 
Member State committed unreservedly to this agenda, 
with tremendous faith in the ability of the multilateral 
system  to  facilitate  the  implementation  of  universal 
agreements,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  will  continue  to 
work with all partners towards the achievement of this 
critically important objective.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  joins  with  other  members 
of the international community in endorsing the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  Let  us  work 
together  for  the  full  and  effective  implementation  of 
this landmark Agenda for the benefit of all our peoples.
22/26 
15-29149
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.4
Co-Chair Museveni: I now call on Mr. Abdullah 
Abdullah,  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  Islamic 
Republic of Afghanistan.
Mr. Abdullah  (Afghanistan):  It  is  a  great  honour 
for me to represent my country at this historic Summit. 
At the outset, allow me to commend the Co-Chairs of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  post-2015 
development agenda for convening this gathering and 
to  express  my  sincere  appreciation  to  both  for  their 
skilful leadership and tireless efforts.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1) offers a compelling vision, promising 
peace and prosperity to the peoples of the world through 
global partnerships to ensure that we live and manage 
the  resources  of  our  planet  in  a  sustainable  manner. 
His  Excellency  President  Ghani  asked  me  to  convey 
to  Member  States  that  the  Agenda  —  a  synthesis 
of  past  efforts,  as  articulated  in  key  United  Nations 
conferences — is an inspired leap of aspiration into the 
future. We therefore pay tribute to the work of several 
generations of thinkers and practitioners who devoted 
their lives to understanding and changing the economic, 
social and environmental dimensions of development.
The 
Millennium 
Development 
Goals 
(MDGs)  —  which,  sadly,  have  yet  to  be  fulfilled  by 
some  countries  —  focused  our  attention  on  results-
oriented  development,  forcing  Governments  and  their 
development  partners  to  think  through  the  linkages 
among  policy,  delivery,  measuring,  monitoring, 
accountability  and  having  a  voice  in  public  resource 
mobilization and management. Yet, as President Ghani 
reminds us, the unfinished MDG agenda in the poorest 
countries and the unintended consequences of focusing 
on  some  Goals  require  us  to  pay  careful  attention  to 
learning and acting on the lessons learned. One of those 
lessons is that, while the United Nations system does an 
excellent job in setting global agendas, its development 
machinery  requires  a  major  transformation  if  it  is 
to  be  a  catalyst  for  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.
The  five  pillars  of  the  2030  Agenda,  however, 
require  that  systematic  attention  be  paid  to  regional 
cooperation and coordination. To cite just one example, 
if regional barriers to trade and transit between Central 
and  South  Asia  were  to  open  up,  tens  of  millions  of 
people  would  be  lifted  out  of  poverty  into  a  life  of 
dignity. Even more significant, if true and meaningful 
cooperation  in  the  arena  of  peace  and  security  took 
place, the spectre cast by radicalism and terrorism over 
our lives would be lifted.
Afghanistan began to pursue its MDGs almost half 
a  decade  later  than  other  Member  States.  According 
to our 2005-2015 MDG report, we have had a mix of 
achievements and setbacks. While the poverty rate has 
remained  constant  for  several  years,  we  have  made 
considerable  progress  in  primary  education,  gender 
equality  and  women’s  empowerment,  and  child  and 
maternal mortality rates have been reduced.
A  big  part  of  Afghanistan’s 
transformation 
decade 2015-2025 coincides with the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development.  Afghanistan  will  remain 
committed  to  developing  strategies  and  policies  to 
integrate  our  national  development  agenda  with  the 
2030  Agenda.  My  Government’s  efforts  to  provide 
villages  across  the  country  with  a  minimum  level  of 
basic  services  in  health,  education,  clean  water  and 
improved agriculture through a citizens’ charter top the 
national development agenda.
Afghanistan  has  been  making  strides  to  become 
an  economic  hub  in  the  region  and  to  establish 
corridors  that  connect  people,  goods  and  resources 
and  create  opportunities  for  investment,  development 
and  economic  growth.  I  am  grateful  to  see  that  the 
Agenda  attaches  importance  to  the  implementation 
of  special  and  differentiated  treatment  for  the  least 
developed  countries,  in  accordance  with  World  Trade 
Organization agreements.
The  adoption  of  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda 
was  a  milestone.  We  also  support  interconnectedness 
with other relevant programmes, including the Istanbul 
Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries 
and  the  Vienna Programme of Action for  Landlocked 
Developing  Countries.  We  agree  with  the  notion  that 
responsibility  for  the  follow-up  and  review  of  the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development lies primarily with States.
In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  express  Afghanistan’s 
firm belief that in order to achieve the ambitious Goals 
of  the  new  Agenda,  a  strong  political  commitment 
and  revitalized  global  partnership  and  cooperation 
are  essential.  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  our  strong 
commitment  and  dedication 
the 
Agenda and our unwavering effort in fulfilling all its 
Goals and targets by 2030.
implementing 
to 
Co-Chair Museveni:  I  now  call  on  Mr.  Mark 
Wilson, Group Chief Executive Officer of Aviva.
15-29149
23/26
A/70/PV.4 
25/09/2015
Mr. Wilson (Aviva): It certainly is an honour and a 
privilege for me to be here and set out the role of business 
in achieving the global goals. I have spent much of my 
career in emerging and developing economies, and have 
sometimes  seen  the  unacceptable  face  of  capitalism. 
But I have also seen that business and capitalism have 
been among the great forces of liberation in history. I 
am  crystal-clear  as  to  why  I  am  in  business.  I  am  in 
business to positively impact the lives of customers and 
society. Making a profit is a by-product, albeit a very 
important one, that allows my business to also remain 
sustainable. 
In  my  company,  Aviva,  one  of  our  core  values  is 
to create legacy, or, as I call it, to be a good ancestor. 
Aviva  has  been  in  business  since  1696  because  our 
ancestors  made  good  long-term  decisions.  We  do  the 
same thing today for our 34 million customers and for 
the  over  $500  billion  in  assets  we  manage  for  them. 
The  Sustainable  Development  Goals  are  a  unique 
opportunity to create a global legacy. 
I was born in New Zealand, and I now live in the 
United  Kingdom,  which  is  also  a  sporting  nation.  To 
deliver the Goals and win, just as in sport, we have to play 
as one team. This quest is far too big for Governments, 
non-governmental  organizations,  business,  finance 
or regulators on their own. We have got to mobilize a 
global coalition the likes of which the world has never 
seen. Nothing less than Team Humanity.
Aviva is a founding partner of Project Everyone and 
has done a stellar job in planning to get the message about 
the Goals to everyone on the planet. Our duty now is to 
transform that message into action. The United Nations 
Global Compact, an excellent organization, has helped 
companies  implement  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  and  the  work  is  even  more  important  for  the 
Sustainable Development Goals. 
The  question  is:  How  do  we  align  business  and 
the Goals together? The Goals certainly contain some 
fine  aspirations  for  the  $150  billion  or  so  of  overseas 
development assistance, but we have to do much more 
to mobilize the $300 trillion of capital in the financial 
markets.  To  return  to  my  sporting  metaphor,  we  are 
currently trying to illuminate a stadium with a candle 
when there is a huge set of floodlights towering above 
the  grandstand.  All  we  need  to  do  is  to  turn  on  that 
$300-trillion  switch,  and  I  believe  the  glow  will 
enlighten the world.
Today  I  have  one  very  simple  request.  I  would 
respectfully suggest that the General Assembly target 
2017  for  the  adoption  of  a  resolution  on  sustainable 
finance.  That  resolution  would  set  out  the  United 
Nations own road map for sustainable capital markets, 
which  to  date  simply  does  not  exist.  I  suggest  we 
convene the best minds in the United Nations, around 
the world and in finance to work out exactly how to do 
this. The United Nations talks rightly of a duty to look 
after future generations. Our legacy will be determined 
by  our  success  aligning  the  actions  of  the  United 
Nations, its Member States, civil society, business and, 
indeed, finance globally. If we can do that, we will play 
as one team and I can assure everyone present that we 
will then win with the global Goals.
Co-Chair Museveni: I now call on Mr. Jim Yong 
Kim, President of the World Bank Group.
Mr. Kim (World Bank Group): I thank you, Sir, and 
the  Secretary-General  for  the  opportunity  to  address 
this historic Summit.
the  2030  Agenda 
Together, we have reached an important milestone 
in  adopting 
for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1).  Its  Goals  and  targets 
represent our commitment to a more ambitious agenda 
for  international  development  in  the  next  15  years. 
The  Goals  reflect  our  dream  for  a  world  in  which 
everyone  everywhere  can  reach  their  full  potential. 
And  they  seek  to  preserve  our  planet  —  what  Pope 
Francis has called “our common home” — for all future 
generations.  At the World Bank Group, we pledge to 
use  our  comprehensive  experience  and  knowledge  of 
financing  development  to  support  the  Goals.  We  will 
adapt the financial tools of the rich to serve the poor. 
As we discussed two months ago in Addis Ababa, 
the  multilateral  development  banks  together  plan  to 
provide financial support of more than $400 billion for 
the first three years of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.  In  addition,  the  World  Bank  and  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF)  have  launched  a 
joint initiative to strengthen tax systems in developing 
countries. Our aim is to assist lower-income countries 
to increase their tax collection by at least 2 to 4 per cent 
of gross domestic product. Those actions are the first 
essential steps towards raising the resources needed for 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  —  moving  from 
billions of dollars to the trillions needed in development 
assistance.
24/26 
15-29149
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.4
We  will  also  bring  our  best  global  development 
knowledge  to  tackle  the  world’s  toughest  challenges. 
We  have  over  50  years  of  development  experience  in 
helping  countries  grow  their  economies  and  invest  in 
their people and insuring them against falling back into 
poverty. More than ever, we know what has worked and 
what has not when it comes to development. Working 
with  the  priorities  set  by  developing  countries,  we 
will  tackle  challenges  and  create  strategies  to  resolve 
them.  Based  on  our  experience  with  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, we also know that the Sustainable 
Development Goals will and must change the way we 
work. They will ensure that we are doing all we can, as 
effectively and as fast as we can, to help the poor and 
the vulnerable.
I personally have experienced the power of setting 
goals and putting the poor first throughout my career. 
In the suburbs of Lima, where we will be holding our 
annual  meetings  of  the  IMF  and  the  World  Bank  in 
just a few weeks, my organization, Partners in Health, 
worked  to  provide  poor  people  a  standard  of  health 
care available previously only in the richest countries. 
When I was Director of the World Health Organization 
HIV/AIDS  Department  in  Geneva,  we  set  a  target  of 
treating  3  million  people  infected  with  HIV/AIDS  in 
less  than  three  years.  At  the  World  Bank  Group,  we 
have committed to ending extreme poverty by 2030 and 
boosting shared prosperity. 
In each instance, clear goals focused our wills, our 
minds and our actions. They made us look carefully at 
whether what we were actually doing helped those in 
need. They also made us work differently; they ensured 
that  our  strategy  had  a  clear  focus  with  expected 
outcomes. For too long, our low aspirations for the poor 
have often turned out to be their worst enemy. We have 
not been bold enough in helping them lift themselves 
out  of  poverty.  The  poverty  of  our  own  imagination 
and aspirations has prevented us from building a more 
just  and  more  prosperous  world,  but  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  give  us  an  Agenda  that  is  much 
more ambitious than any before it. 
I believe that we are up to the task. The multilateral 
development  banks  and  the  IMF  will  work  closely 
together  to  substantially  increase  the  amount  of 
financing available to meet our high aspirations. We are 
building  upon  a  record  of  great  accomplishment.  Just 
over  the  past  15  years,  close  to  1  billion  people  have 
lifted themselves out of extreme poverty. Such progress 
shows  that  even  seemingly  impossible  development 
goals  are  entirely  possible.  We  are  now  the  very  first 
generation  in  human  history  that  can  see  the  end  of 
extreme  poverty.  We  must  not  turn  away  from  that 
challenge. We must seize the moment and use all our 
knowledge and grit to reach those new goals. We will 
succeed. Together we will make the world a more just 
and prosperous place for generations to come.
Co-Chair Museveni: I now call on Ms. Christine 
the  International 
Lagarde,  Managing  Director  of 
Monetary Fund.
Ms.  Lagarde  (International  Monetary  Fund):  As 
we  say,  “In  unity  lies  strength”.  Two  months  ago  in 
Addis  Ababa,  the  international  community  put  that 
to  the  test.  We  pledged  to  secure  financing  to  make 
sustainable  development  not  a  goal,  but  a  reality  for 
all.  Today  we  face  yet  another  moment  of  truth  as 
we  come  together  to  adopt  the  ambitious  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs).  Our  joint  success  will 
depend on decisive action and implementation at both 
the country and collective levels. 
With  regard  to  countries,  countries  can  and 
must  act  at  three  levels:  economically,  socially  and 
environmentally. 
The  first  priority  is  macroeconomic  stability, 
which is not sufficient on its own. While priorities will 
vary across countries, structural reforms and economic 
diversification will be needed. Equally, as mentioned by 
Mr. Kim, revenue mobilization and efficient, effective 
public spending, including investment, will be key.
A second priority is inclusion. I affirm that more 
inclusive  growth  is  also  stronger  growth,  so  we  must 
empower  people  to  fulfil  their  potential.  Improving 
girls’  education  and  removing  barriers  to  women’s 
employment  and  access  to  finance  would  not  only 
boost growth but would also tackle income inequality 
and poverty because — let us not forget — poverty and 
exclusion are sexist.
The  third  priority  is  the  environment.  Countries 
have a crucial stake in managing their natural resources 
efficiently  and  effectively.  At  the  same  time,  limiting 
the  harmful  impact  of  economic  activity  on  the 
environment can and will require targeted interventions. 
In  short,  each  country  must  do  all  it  can  to  drive  its 
own  development,  but  durable  progress  cannot  be 
achieved in isolation — it requires the engagement of 
the international community. 
15-29149
25/26
A/70/PV.4 
25/09/2015
We therefore need collective action. Why? Because 
in  today’s  interconnected  world,  for  good  and  for  ill, 
cause and effect, spillovers and spillbacks travel across 
borders  instantly  and  unceasingly,  irrespective  of  the 
walls that are being built. And they do so at all levels: 
macroeconomic,  where  an  economic  shock  in  one 
country  will  affect  all  others;  inclusion,  where  social 
transformations  drive  the  winds  of  change;  and  the 
environment,  where,  with  global  warming,  everyone 
reaps what others have done.
The  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF)  —  with 
its 188 members and 70-year track record of promoting 
global  economic  cooperation  and  stability  —  well 
understands  the  need  for,  and  power  of,  collective 
action. Indeed, we are not only promising; we are also 
delivering. In our research, policy advice and capacity-
building,  we  have  included  social  and  environmental 
dimensions  that  were  not  there,  and  we  will  continue 
to do so.
We are also expanding our support for developing 
countries in several ways. First, the poorest countries 
can now borrow 50 per cent more from our interest-free 
facilities. Secondly, we are strengthening our technical 
support  to  help  countries  boost  domestic  revenue 
mobilization to finance development spending. We are 
doing that together with the World Bank. Thirdly, we 
are  intensifying  our  support  for  fragile  and  conflict-
affected  States.  Importantly,  in  the  long-term  we  are 
maintaining the zero interest rate on our Rapid Credit 
Facility loans.
The IMF is working with its member countries and 
international partners in the spirit of global cooperation 
to achieve the SDGs. We have done so, we are doing so 
and  we  will  continue  to  do  so.  In  2000,  they  clapped 
with  two  hands.  Earlier  today,  we  clapped  with  two 
hands.  The  second  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations,  Dag  Hammarskjöld,  once  said:  “We  are  not 
permitted to choose the frame of our destiny, but what 
we put into it is ours”. Likewise, the year 2030 — the 
SDGs target date — will one day be upon us, and what 
it will look like lies in our hands. Let us hope that they 
will clap, too.
The meeting rose at 2.20 p.m.
26/26 
15-29149
