United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
16th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 29 September 2015, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.16
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Address by Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the 
Republic of Rwanda
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Rwanda.
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the Republic 
of Rwanda, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Kagame: The adoption of the Sustainable 
Development Goals (resolution 70/1) marks a new era 
in  international  cooperation.  Ending  extreme  poverty 
was never going to be enough to fulfil our ambitions. 
This new compact is about prosperity, and it recognizes 
that the only sustainable future is one that includes all 
of us. It could hardly be otherwise. The creativity and 
dynamism of billions of people is already transforming 
our  world  for  the  better.  That  is  thanks  to  improved 
health,  education  and  access  to  new  technologies  and 
to  empowering  women  to  take  their  rightful  place  in 
the world.
as never before. Cooperation is the only way forward. 
And yet the new consensus on sustainable development 
is  incomplete,  because  it  lacks  a  shared  definition 
of  the  political  legitimacy  required  to  sustain  that 
international order.
That  divergence  of  visions  is  rooted  in  history. 
When  world  powers  created 
the  United  Nations 
70  years  ago,  independence  for  the  colonized  peoples 
of Africa and Asia was not on the agenda. We were still 
seen  as  people  who  needed  to  be  looked  after.  Those 
moral  hierarchies  and  prejudices  are  still  with  us, 
contributing to the mismanagement of political change 
and corroding the trust on which effective multilateral 
cooperation depends.
The  internal  character  of  national  systems  counts 
for  everything.  It  cannot  be  bypassed.  Political 
legitimacy is not a legal abstraction. It is an objective 
reality that can be measured, for example, in terms of 
progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals, 
as well as in terms of indicators of public opinion. We 
face serious challenges that we must confront together 
as  an  international  community.  We  cannot  afford  to 
undermine the most responsible and capable members 
by  applying  standards  to  some  countries  that  are  not 
applied to others, and even by imposing inappropriate 
ones.
But growth and progress also raise new challenges 
related to international migration, the protection of the 
environment and demands for good governance. For the 
generation to come, responding to those challenges will 
put  the  United  Nations  at  the  centre  of  global  affairs 
To  take  just  one  example,  international  refugee 
law  has  barely  been  a  factor  in  the  current  crisis,  as 
if  the  purpose  all  along  was  more  to  keep  refugees 
encamped far from developed countries than to protect 
the rights of people fleeing persecution. In other cases, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29431 (E)
*1529431*
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
multilateral institutions are used to gain credibility for 
biased attacks on countries even while scrutiny of the 
powerful  is  considered  unnecessary.  When  matters 
of  principle  become  associated  with  domination  and 
disdain,  the  basis  for  joint  action  in  the  multilateral 
system is compromised.
We  have  nothing  to  fear  from  high  standards. 
The only stability worth having is one based on good 
policies that deliver real results for citizens and facilitate 
peaceful change. Human dignity and even survival are 
implied in that. No country or system has a monopoly 
on  wisdom,  much  less  a  claim  to  moral  superiority. 
Our  task  is  to  settle  the  future,  not  the  past.  Change 
is  coming,  and  it  is  necessary.  No  one  can  manage  it 
alone, and the Sustainable Development Goals rightly 
recognize our mutual interdependence. We have made 
good commitments; now we must make good on them. 
Building  a  community  with  a  shared  purpose  that 
is  capable  of  doing  so  starts  with  recognition  of  our 
equality.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Rwanda 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. David Arthur Granger, President 
of the Republic of Guyana
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Guyana.
Mr.  David  Arthur  Granger,  President  of  the 
Republic of Guyana, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. David Arthur Granger, President of the 
Republic of Guyana, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President  Granger:  The  Cooperative  Republic 
of  Guyana  is  honoured  to  participate  in  this  historic 
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  would  like  to 
congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  election, 
and  pledge  Guyana’s  cooperation  as  you  guide  the 
Assembly in the fulfilment of its tasks. We would also 
like  to  thank  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  for 
his stewardship in piloting the post-2015 agenda. That 
process  has  culminated  in  the  historic  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1).  The 
Sustainable Development Goals it contains reflect the 
common consensus within the international community 
on the elements that are integral to human development.
The United Nations, established 70 years ago and 
a mere five months after the formal end of the Second 
World War, became the midwife of a new international 
order.  That  new  order  of  world  peace  was  depicted 
symbolically  and  powerfully  in  the  form  of  a  bronze 
statue on the grounds of the Headquarters of the United 
Nations.  It  embodies  the  vision  revealed  in  the  Holy 
Bible in the Book of Isaiah that states,
“And  he  shall  judge  among  the  nations,  and 
shall rebuke many people: and they shall beat their 
swords  into  ploughshares,  and  their  spears  into 
pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up sword against 
nation, neither shall they learn war any more.” (The 
Holy Bible, Isaiah, 4:2)
That prophetic verse became the philosophical basis of 
the  United  Nations,  which  became  the  organizational 
foundation  for  a  global  order  that  saw  the  emergence 
of  a  plethora  of  newly  independent  States,  a  result  of 
the decolonization process after the Second World War. 
In  the  years  since  its  establishment,  126  States  have 
gained their independence.
The  United  Nations  began 
in  1945  with  a 
membership  of  only  51  countries,  but  today  that  has 
almost quadrupled to 193. The majority of new States 
are  mini-,  micro-  and  small  ones.  The  undemocratic 
and  warlike  empires  of  which  they  were  colonies 
were  dismantled  after  two  world  wars.  These  are  the 
questions  that  small  States  ask  of  the  United  Nations 
on  this,  its  seventieth  anniversary:  How  will  our 
peoples  be  protected  from  foreign  aggression?  How 
will our territories be safeguarded from invasion? How 
will peace among nations be preserved? How will the 
independence  of  the  new  States  be  sustained?  The 
Charter of the United Nations charges our Organization 
with the responsibility
“to bring about by peaceful means, and in conformity 
with the principles of justice and international law, 
adjustment or settlement of international disputes”.
That  responsibility  is  essential  to  the  existence  and 
survival  of  small  States  that  are  threatened  by  more 
powerful  ones.  They  risk  being  subjugated  unless 
the 
international  community  can  demonstrate  a 
2/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
commitment to providing an effective deterrent against 
their  domination  by  larger,  stronger  States,  and  the 
capability to do so.
On  9  May  1994,  at  its  forty-ninth  session,  the 
General  Assembly  adopted  resolution  49/31,  which, 
among other things, recognizes that small States may 
be particularly vulnerable to external threats and acts 
of interference in their internal affairs; stresses the vital 
importance for all States of the unconditional respect by 
all States of all the principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations, including the principles of sovereign equality, 
territorial  integrity,  non-interference  in  the  internal 
affairs of other countries and the peaceful settlement of 
disputes and their consistent application; also stresses 
the  importance  of  strengthening  regional  security 
arrangements  by  increasing  interaction,  cooperation 
and consultation; appeals to the relevant regional and 
international organizations to provide assistance when 
requested  by  small  States  for  the  strengthening  of 
their security in accordance with the principles of the 
Charter;  requests  the  Secretary-General  to  continue 
to  pay  special  attention  to  monitoring  the  security 
situation  of  small  States  and  to  consider  making  use 
of Article 99 of the Charter; and calls on the Security 
Council and other relevant organs of the United Nations 
to pay special attention to the protection and security 
of  small  States.  That  is  a  manifesto  for  small  States, 
contained  in  a  resolution  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly 21 years ago.
Guyana is a small State and a new State, a product 
of  the  post-Second  World  War  promise  of  peace. 
Guyana is a child of the United Nations. Eight months 
from  now,  on  26  May  2016,  Guyana  will  mark  the 
fiftieth  anniversary  of  its  independence.  But  for  50 
years, our small country has been prevented from fully 
exploiting  its  rich  natural  resources.  Venezuela  has 
threatened  and  deterred  investors  and  frustrated  our 
economic  development.  For  50  years  it  has  violated 
our  territorial  integrity  by  occupying  part  of  our 
territory, the most recent incident in that regard being 
on 10 October 2013, when it sent a naval corvette into 
our maritime zone and expelled a peaceful petroleum-
exploration  vessel  conducting  seismic  surveys.  For 
50  years  Venezuela  has  promulgated  decrees  making 
spurious  claims  on  our  territory,  the  most  recent  on 
26 May, our independence anniversary, when it issued 
decree  number  1,787,  containing  specific  coordinates 
that would annex almost our entire maritime zone, and 
constituting a reassertion of Venezuela’s claim to 5 of 
Guyana’s 10 regions.
Guyana  rejects  Venezuela’s  threats  and  claims, 
made in defiance of international law, and we resist its 
acts of aggression, conducted in defiance of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  which  prescribes  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes and proscribes the use of armed 
force.
Guyana’s  borders  with  Venezuela  were  settled 
116 years ago. The entire world, except the Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela,  accepts  and  acknowledges 
our  borders.  In  1968,  at  the  Assembly’s  twenty-third 
session (see A/PV.1680), Guyana explained to the world 
how in 1897 a treaty of arbitration was signed between 
the  United  Kingdom  and  Venezuela.  That  treaty 
provided  for  the  establishment  of  an  arbitral  tribunal 
to  determine  the  boundary  line  between  the  colony 
of  British  Guiana,  as  we  were  then,  and  Venezuela. 
It  committed  the  parties  to  consider  the  result  of  the 
proceedings  of  the  tribunal  of  arbitration  as  a  full, 
perfect and final settlement of all the questions referred 
to  the  arbitrators.  The  tribunal  issued  its  decision  on 
3  October  1899,  awarding  Venezuela  13,000  square 
kilometres of our territory, an area bigger than Jamaica 
or Lebanon. Venezuela was bound under international 
law  to  respect  that  decision,  which  it  did  for  the  next 
six decades.
From  the  beginning  of  Guyana’s  independence, 
however, Venezuela has resorted to various stratagems 
to deprive us of our territory. There has been a series 
of  acts  of  aggression  by  Presidents  of  Venezuela 
against  my  country,  from  President  Raúl  Leoni 
Otero’s  decree  number  1,152  of  15  June  1968  to 
President  Nicolás  Maduro  Moro’s  of  26  May  of  this 
year.  Venezuela  —  more  than  four  times  the  size 
of  Guyana,  with  armed  forces  that  are  more  than  40 
times  the  size  of  our  defence  force  —  mindful  of  its 
superior  wealth  and  military  strength,  but  unmindful 
of its obligation as a Member of the United Nations, the 
Union of South American Nations and the Organization 
of American States, has pursued a path of intimidation 
and  aggression.  It  is  unsettling  a  settled  border.  It  is 
destabilizing a stable region of the globe by the use of 
armed force against a small, peaceful State. Venezuela 
has retarded Guyana’s development through its use of 
threats that are intended to force a small State to yield 
up its birthright. Its expansionist ambitions cannot be 
allowed to undermine the principle of the inviolability 
15-29431
3/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
of  borders  and  the  tenets  of  international  law,  and  to 
redraw borders that have gone undisturbed for decades.
Guyana  recommits  to  preserving  the  Caribbean 
as a zone of peace. Today we renew our pledge before 
the Assembly that we will pursue the path of peace for 
all time. We reaffirm our commitment to the peaceful 
settlement  of  international  disputes.  Guyana  has  total 
confidence in international law, and seeks a resolution 
of this controversy that is consistent with the provisions 
of the Charter of the United Nations.
The  Geneva  Agreement,  signed  on  17  February 
1966, between the Governments of the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Venezuela and 
British Guiana, as we were then, provides for action to be 
taken by the Secretary-General of the United Nations in 
order to resolve any contention occasioned by the claim 
made by the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela that the 
arbitral award of 1899 is null and void. Guyana has full 
confidence in the judgement and capacity of the United 
Nations, through the Office of the Secretary-General, 
to identify solutions that will validate the just, perfect 
and  final  nature  of  its  decision.  We  thank  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Secretary-General  for  appointing 
various officials during the past 25 years to use their 
good  offices  to  help  to  resolve  this  controversy.  We 
feel, however, that the process has now been exhausted.
Guyana  does  not  want  this  obnoxious  territorial 
claim to obscure our country’s prospects for peace and 
obstruct its potential growth for the next 50 years. We 
need a permanent solution if we are to avoid a fate of 
perpetual  peril  and  penury,  and  we  seek  a  juridical 
settlement to the controversy. We put our faith and our 
fate in the hands of the international system of peace 
promised by the Charter of the United Nations nearly 
70 years ago. We want to bring an end to Venezuelan 
aggression.  We  want  to  develop  our  country,  all  of 
our  country,  in  accordance  with  international  law. 
Guyana  therefore  calls  on  the  United  Nations  to  give 
real  meaning  to  resolution  49/31  of  9  May  1994  by 
establishing  a  collective  security  system  designed 
not  merely  to  monitor  but  also,  more  importantly,  to 
maintain the security of small States. That resolution, 
as I said, is a manifesto for the security of small States.
The  United  Nations  remains  our  best  hope  and 
prospect  for  peace,  the  best  assurance  of  security  for 
small  States.  It  is  our  strength,  support  and  succour 
in  times  of  danger.  We  pledge  Guyana’s  adherence 
to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Guyana  seeks 
nothing  more  than  the  solidarity  of  the  international 
community, the assurance of the Charter and the safety 
of international law.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Guyana 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  David  Arthur  Granger,  President  of  the 
Republic of Guyana, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hage Geingob, President of the 
Republic of Namibia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Namibia.
Mr.  Hage  Geingob,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Namibia, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Mr. Hage G. Geingob, President of the 
Republic of Namibia, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President Geingob: I am honoured to be here today 
to deliver my maiden address to the General Assembly 
as the third President of the Republic of Namibia. I wish 
to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session.  In 
the same vein, let me take this opportunity to thank the 
outgoing  President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa, 
for the sterling job he did during his tenure as President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session.
As I arrived at this building, I could not help but 
experience a strong sense of nostalgia. It has been said 
that a journey of 1,000 miles begins with one step. In 
1964, 51 years ago, standing at the foot of the steps to 
this building, I began my 1,000-mile journey, starting 
off  as  a  young  petitioner  for  the  South  West  Africa 
People’s  Organization  (SWAPO)  against  the  illegal 
occupation  of  South  West  Africa  by  apartheid  South 
Africa.  On  23  April  1990,  I  returned  to  address  the 
Assembly as the first Prime Minister of an independent 
Namibia during the admission of our young nation into 
the fold of the United Nations family (see A/S-18/PV.1). 
Today,  25  years  after  that  moment,  I  am  once  again 
standing  in  this  building,  having  ascended  to  the 
presidency of our Republic. It is therefore a great joy to 
4/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
be present at the seventieth anniversary celebrations of 
our Organization.
Namibia  is  a  child  of  international  solidarity, 
midwifed by the United Nations. As Namibians, we are 
both grateful for and proud of the support we received 
from the international community, through the United 
Nations system, during our struggle for independence. 
In fact, if I can illustrate our close bond with the United 
Nations,  in  1990,  upon  attaining  independence,  we 
refused to allow the instruments of power to be handed 
over to our first President, Comrade Sam Nujoma, by 
the then President of South Africa, Mr. De Klerk. We 
demanded that the said instruments be handed over by 
Secretary-General  Javier  Pérez  de  Cuéllar,  who  in  so 
doing symbolized the birth of our Republic.
the  Nationhood  Programme 
After  the  termination  of  South  Africa’s  mandate 
over  South  West  Africa,  the  United  Nations  assumed 
responsibility  over  Namibia.  Furthermore, 
direct 
it  established 
for 
Namibia, which was meant to prepare the country for 
independence  and  future  responsibilities.  Through 
the  United  Nations  Institute  for  Namibia,  established 
by  the  United  Nations  Council  for  Namibia,  which  I 
was  tasked  to  head  from  1975  to  1989,  we  were  able 
to  develop  the  building  blocks  that  we  would  use  to 
construct our democracy. There is an African proverb 
which says that a patient man will eat ripe fruit. With 
the  assistance  of  the  United  Nations,  we  exercised 
patience in preparing for self-governance. Today, I can 
proudly  announce  to  the  world  that  in  Namibia,  after 
having fought to free ourselves, we are now eating the 
ripe fruit of peace and democracy.
As an expression of our profound gratitude to the 
international  community  for  its  solidarity  with  our 
people  and  our  undying  commitment  to  international 
peace  and  security,  we  have  continued  to  make  our 
modest  contribution  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations since our independence. Among other things, 
we  have  contributed  contingents  to  peacekeeping 
missions  in  Cambodia,  Angola,  Liberia,  Darfur,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Timor-Leste  and  South  Sudan,  in  which  our 
men and women participated.
As  we  celebrate  70  years  of  the  existence  of  this 
great  experiment  in  human  interaction,  namely,  our 
United Nations, there is a lot of which we can be proud. 
Although  the  world  has  not  been  as  peaceful  as  we 
would like, we can take solace in the fact that since the 
Second World War, we have avoided a conflict of such 
magnitude and intensity. Most important are the inroads 
we have made into improving the conditions of human 
beings on this planet by lifting millions out of extreme 
poverty, empowering women, advancing human rights, 
and spearheading the process of decolonization, which 
has been completed with only one exception — that of 
Sahrawi.
We  hail  from  a  continent  whose  leaders  are  busy 
addressing new goals and new commitments under the 
banner of the African Union. We are in the process of 
establishing  the  new  Africa,  with  its  own  narrative 
as told by its sons and daughters. Africa has turned a 
new leaf, bidding farewell to the days of coups d’état 
and  embracing  electoral  democracy.  We  as  Africans, 
through  the  African  Union,  have  ostracized  those 
who have come to office through unlawful ways. The 
recent coup in Burkina Faso is an example of our zero-
tolerance  policy  towards  those  who  come  to  power 
through illegal ways.
Having achieved electoral democracy, it is pertinent 
that  we  buttress  it  by  establishing  processes,  systems 
and  institutions.  When  we  talk  about  processes,  we 
are  referring  mainly  to  electoral  processes,  in  which 
electoral commissions need to be independent, impartial 
and able to instil confidence in the electorate. This will 
ensure that those who lose at the polls accept the results. 
In so doing, we can bring to an end a situation where 
those who lose at the polls feel left out and defeated and 
therefore choose to wage war.
With respect to systems, we talk about Government 
systems  that  continue  to  function  through  the  civil 
service even though there may be a political deadlock 
within  a  particular  country.  If  all  else  fails,  then 
institutions,  such  as  our  own  courts,  play  their  part. 
This is what we have in Namibia. It is clear, therefore, 
that  we  have  put  sound  governance  architecture  in 
place.  With  regard  to  effective  governance,  our  track 
record speaks volumes. We are rated, inter alia, sixth 
overall  as  the  best-governed  country  on  the  African 
continent by the Ibrahim Index of African Governance, 
rated seventh in Africa as a clean country in terms of 
corruption by Transparency International, and ranked 
as a country with the freest press in Africa by Reporters 
without Borders.
Similarly,  our  macroeconomic  architecture 
is 
admirable.  It  is  underpinned  by  financial  stability 
evident in our world-class banking system — a sector 
ranked twenty-fifth in the world by the World Economic 
15-29431
5/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
economic 
democracy 
Forum — and well regulated through a prudent monetary 
policy  for  the  past  25  years.  Both  Fitch  and  Standard 
and  Poors,  the  globally  recognized  rating  experts  on 
a  country’s  financial  stability,  have  consistently  rated 
Namibia with a BBB+, which means that we are indeed a 
credit-worthy country. Our debt stock is between 25 per 
cent and 30 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP). 
Clearly, at the level of governance, Namibia by all local 
and international standards has been doing quite well 
as a maturing, stable, peaceful and democratic society.
However,  we  should  understand  that  electoral 
is 
democracy  without 
meaningless, because people do not eat peace, security, 
good  constitutions  and  democracy.  We  still  face  the 
challenge of rectifying socioeconomic deficits and the 
subsequent entrenched poverty caused by many years 
of  deliberately  orchestrated  policies  of  the  historic 
neglect and economic exclusion of black people. That 
situation has proven resilient against the conventional 
anti-poverty  strategies  we  have  employed  for  the 
past  25  years,  meaning  that  we  have  to  become  more 
innovative  in  our  approach  in  that  area.  We  are  still 
faced  with  enormous  social  disparities  between  the 
rich and the poor. Among other notable concerns is the 
critical shortage of housing and other basic necessities. 
For  that  reason,  on  the  day  of  my  inauguration  as 
President of Namibia on 21 March, I announced to my 
countrymen and women and to the world at large that 
the Namibian Government was declaring an all-out war 
on poverty.
The  distribution  of  wealth  is  one  of  today’s  most 
widely  discussed  and  controversial  issues.  However, 
the distribution of wealth is too important an issue to be 
left to economists at international financial institutions. 
It  is  for  that  reason  that  Namibia  continues  to  advise 
caution against the arbitrary classification of countries 
based on income alone. The current approach developed 
by  international  financial  institutions,  such  as  the 
World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, and 
subsequently adopted by the United Nations, to classify 
countries based solely on GDP does not reflect justice 
and  fairness.  That  approach,  which  simply  divides 
GDP by population, completely ignores inequalities in 
the distribution of wealth and opportunities and comes 
with adverse effects on social mobility and progress.
Namibia  has  been  one  of  the  casualties  of  that 
approach,  as  it  has  been  wrongly  classified  as  a  so-
called  upper-middle-income  country  without  taking 
into  account  that,  due  to  Apartheid,  the  economic 
wealth  of  the  country  remained  in  the  hands  of  the 
minority white population, leaving blacks on the fringes 
of the economy. Instead of the international community 
assisting us in fighting the second phase of the struggle, 
we  feel  as  if  we  have  been  left  to  fend  for  ourselves 
since  the  aforementioned  classification  effectively 
denies Namibia access to grants and concessional loans 
to support our development agenda.
One cannot build a nation when some citizens do not 
participate in the economy and therefore feel left out. 
Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen rightly states that poverty 
should be seen as the deprivation of basic capabilities 
rather than merely as low income. The deprivation of 
elementary  capabilities  can  be  reflected  in  premature 
mortality; significant undernourishment, especially of 
children;  persistent  morbidity;  widespread  illiteracy 
and other failures. We can therefore see that the effects 
of  poverty  are  so  interrelated  that  those  among  us 
who have the misfortune of being poor are trapped in 
perpetual cycles of poverty and despair.
Further to the issue of poverty eradication, I would 
like to add that one of the most impactful interventions 
we  can  make  in  the  war  against  poverty  is  by 
empowering  women,  who,  although  representing  half 
of the world’s population, account for nearly 70 per cent 
of the world’s poor. In Namibia, gender equality is not 
merely lip service. We have benefitted from SWAPO’s 
internal  reform  of  its  party  list  system  to  include  the 
50-50  per  cent  representation  of  women.  Due  to  the 
SWAPO victory at the national electoral polls, female 
representation  in  our  Parliament  has  increased  from 
24  per  cent  to  47  per  cent,  second  only  to  Rwanda, 
which  has  up  to  64  per  cent  female  representation  in 
its Parliament. I have promised that we shall catch up.
I have also appointed a Namibia’s first female Prime 
Minister, and a female Deputy Prime Minister who also 
serves as our Minister for International Relations and 
Cooperation.  She  is  present  in  the  Assembly  today. 
Furthermore, I have appointed female Ministers at the 
helm  of  our  Basic  and  Higher  Education  Ministries. 
Both  the  Minister  and  Deputy  Minister  are  females. 
What matters is educating us when we are young; we 
think that by placing education under their care that we 
will do better.
The  current,  reflective  seventieth  session  of  the 
General Assembly has charted the course for the future 
with the adoption, two days ago, of the new Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  which  urge  us  all  to  join  hands 
6/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
to  build  a  new  type  of  international  relations  based 
on  win-win  cooperation  in  order  to  realize  the  lofty 
ideals of living together in peace with one another as 
good neighbours. The onus is on us to ensure that this 
seventieth  session  marks  the  beginning  of  a  unified 
commitment  to  establishing  peace  in  all  areas  of  the 
world.  Let  us  ensure  that  no  country  feels  left  out  of 
that process.
Human  rights  are  not  divisible;  fundamental 
freedoms are not divisible; democracy is not divisible; 
self-determination  is  not  divisible.  These  freedoms 
apply  to  all  of  us  as  human  beings  on  this  planet. 
The  peoples  of  Palestine  and  Western  Sahara  should 
be  allowed  to  enjoy  their  inalienable  rights  to  self-
determination and national independence, just like all 
other  people,  because  those  rights  are  not  divisible; 
they apply to all of us.
Namibia 
its 
full 
therefore 
reaffirms 
and 
unequivocal  support  for  the  inalienable  rights  of  the 
people of Palestine and of the Western Sahara to self-
determination  and  national  independence.  In  that 
context, we call upon the United Nations to assume its 
full  responsibility  by  implementing  all  its  resolutions 
and  decisions  on  Palestine  with  no  preconditions. 
We  equally  call  for  the  urgent  implementation  of  all 
Security  Council  and  General  Assembly  resolutions, 
with the aim of holding a free and fair referendum in 
the Western Sahara.
There  have  been  a  number  of  developments  on 
the  geopolitical  landscape  that  are  encouraging  in 
terms of a more safe and peaceful world. One of those 
developments  is  the  thawing  of  relations  between  the 
Republic  of  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of  America. 
For  the  past  25  years,  Namibia  has  continued  to  call 
for  the  United  States  and  Cuba  to  walk  the  15  miles 
of  peaceful  coexistence.  In  that  regard,  we  applaud 
the  re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  between 
the  two  countries,  as  well  as  the  laudable  efforts  of 
the two leaders to ease political tension. We commend 
both  countries  for  realizing  that  their  differences 
are  best  addressed  through  engagement  rather  than 
estrangement. However, we hope that the first step will 
be followed by the unconditional lifting of the embargo 
imposed on the people of Cuba.
Over  the  70  years  of  its  existence,  the  United 
Nations has evolved with the world as new issues and 
challenges have emerged. It is therefore proper for the 
Organization  to  reposition  itself  to  deal  with  these 
dynamic  changes.  Accordingly,  Namibia  remains 
committed to comprehensive United Nations reform in 
order to strengthen the Organization and make it more 
efficient and responsive to the needs of all its Members. 
In  this  regard,  reforms  of  the  United  Nations  system 
should  be  guided  by  the  principles  of  democracy, 
equity, justice and fairness for all.
With  respect  to  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
Namibia fully supports the African Common Position 
as set forth in the Ezulwini Consensus and reaffirmed 
by  declaration  at  the  25th  Ordinary  Summit  of  the 
African Union. The continent of Africa deserves to be 
fairly and equitably represented in the Security Council 
in order to rectify the long historical injustice endured 
by a continent with over 1 billion people.
As  President  of  the  eleventh  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  to  Combat 
Desertification, Namibia is of the view that we will not 
end poverty unless we tackle the interlinked issues of 
desertification,  land  degradation  and  drought.  These 
issues are of critical importance, not only to Namibia 
and Africa, but for the entire world.
to  celebrate 
As  we  prepare 
the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  creation  of  the  Organization,  an 
organization  with  which  so  many  of  us  here  share 
a  history  and  fond  memories  during  our  struggle  for 
freedom  and  dignity,  we  must  ensure  that  we  leave  a 
legacy  behind  for  future  generations  —  a  legacy  of 
peace,  unity  and  the  commitment  to  equitable  and 
sustainable development. I would like to reflect on the 
words  of  the  former  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan, 
who once said,
“More than ever before in human history, we share 
a common destiny. We can master it only if we face 
it together (SG/SM/7262).
And  that,  my  friends,  is  why  we  have  the  United 
Nations. The only way we can overcome our challenges 
is  to  form  a  united  front  for  the  advancement  of 
humankind.  Through  the  United  Nations  we  have  the 
platform to achieve this goal. We can either choose to 
march to the tune set by the original ideals that led to 
the formation of the United Nations or we can choose 
to  pursue  our  ambitions  at  the  expense  of  others  and 
ourselves. Let us choose nobility, where we overcome 
our  fears,  insecurities  and  prejudices  for  the  sake  of 
shared  sustainable  development.  Let  us  leave  a  long-
lasting legacy that will shape the future of our planet 
politically, economically and ecologically.
15-29431
7/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
The time to act is now, and Namibia stands ready 
to  join  hands  with  all  members  of  the  international 
community to celebrate a new type of global coexistence, 
where no continent, no region and no country will feel 
left out.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Namibia 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Hage  Geingob,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Namibia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Emomali Rahmon, President of the 
Republic of Tajikistan
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Tajikistan.
Mr. Emomali Rahmon, President of the Republic of 
Tajikistan, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Emomali  Rahmon,  President  of  the 
Republic of Tajikistan, and to invite him to address the 
Assemb
President  Rahmon  (spoke  in  Tajik;  English  text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  a  great  pleasure 
to  join  other  delegations  in  expressing  our  cordial 
congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President 
of the General Assembly at its seventieth session.
The current session of the General Assembly offers 
a  unique  opportunity  not  only  to  acknowledge  the 
accomplishments  of  the  United  Nations  over  the  last 
70 years, but also to reiterate our strong commitment 
to  meeting  the  aspirations  and  hopes  of  our  peoples 
for secure and sustainable development. For 70 years, 
the  United  Nations  has  stood  for  peace  and  security, 
international  cooperation  and  human  rights.  Over 
this  short  but  intense  period  of  history,  the  United 
Nations  has  made  great  strides  in  promoting  stability 
and  sustainable  development  and  in  reducing  or  even 
eliminating poverty and inequality all over the world. 
During  this  period,  the  mechanisms  for  interaction 
that we have set up together to facilitate international 
cooperation have functioned with considerable success. 
Recently, the United Nations Summit adopted the new 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1), which lays the foundation for and identifies the 
areas in which the international community can work 
to attain sustainable development that would meet the 
interests of all peoples and every individual.
Over  seven  decades,  the  United  Nations  has 
made  a  remarkable  contribution  to  assisting  in  the 
formation of new independent States and their further 
development. When, at the dawn of its independence, 
Tajikistan was faced with the difficulties of transition, 
it received extensive support from the United Nations, 
which  enabled  the  country  to  embark  on  the  road 
towards democratic development. The major pillars of 
Tajikistan’s development, laid down with the assistance 
of  the  United  Nations,  contributed  to  the  country’s 
ability  to  participate  in  international  processes  set  up 
to foster cooperation and interaction. Today, Tajikistan 
is  contributing  significantly  to  fighting  terrorism  and 
extremism, transnational organized crime, illicit drug 
trafficking,  arms  smuggling  and  human  trafficking, 
and in promotion of the United Nations water agenda.
in  Darfur  and  are  contributing 
Our  national  police  officers  are  participating 
in  United  Nations  and  African  Union  peacekeeping 
operations 
to 
peacebuilding  processes  shoulder  to  shoulder  with 
colleagues  from  other  Member  States.  Our  drug 
control  agency  that  was  established  with  United 
Nations support continues to play an important role in 
combating illicit drug trafficking. Indeed, since 1995, 
Tajikistan’s national drug enforcement authorities have 
confiscated more than 111 metric tons of narcotics, an 
amount  equivalent  to  206,650,000  drug  doses,  which 
could turn 50 million people the world over into drug 
abusers. This data proves that Tajikistan ranks among 
the world’s top 10 States in the seizure of illicit drugs.
The world has undergone dramatic transformation 
in the last decades. Global processes are more dynamic 
and  complex  than  ever.  Along  with  the  positive 
contributions  globalization  has  made 
to  overall 
development,  globalization  has  also  had  negative 
impacts  that  threaten  security  and  development  in 
individual countries and in the world as a whole.
The increase in the number of armed conflicts and 
acts of terror, food, energy and financial and economic 
crises, degradation of the environment, climate change 
and the spread of infectious diseases demand from us a 
concerted and comprehensive response. In this context, 
the  United  Nations  remains  the  key  platform  for 
consensus  on  the  key  issues  of  international  security 
and  development  and  for  coordination  of  joint  action 
8/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
of the international community towards responding to 
global  threats  and  challenges.  Of  special  concern  are 
the scope and global nature of the current threats posed 
by  terrorism,  drug-trafficking  and  organized  crime. 
The  destructive  and  inhumane  forces  of  terrorism 
and  extremism  have  continued  to  gain  in  strength, 
attracting  into  their  orbit  an  ever-growing  number  of 
young people. Those forces seriously undermine efforts 
of  countries  and  regions  to  maintain  the  security  and 
peaceful development.
Combating  international  terrorism  and  extremism 
has  become  a  top  priority.  There  is  an  undeniable 
need  to  develop  national,  regional  and  international 
mechanisms to eliminate military infrastructure, block 
channels  of  financial  and  logistical  support,  prevent 
recruiting  and  propaganda  that  promotes  violence, 
and  counteract  the  use  of  modern  information  and 
communication technologies for the purpose of terror. 
It is also essential that we pool our efforts to find ways 
to  address  the  issues  of  poverty  reduction  and  the 
negative  impact  of  globalization,  and  to  prevent  and 
resolve regional conflicts. Strengthening cross-cultural 
and  interfaith  dialogue,  mutual  trust  and  tolerance 
would play a pivotal role.
It  is  in  our  common  interests  for  Member  States 
to  implement  the  United  Nations  Global  Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy  and  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  in  order 
to  effectively  combat  all  forms  and  manifestations  of 
terrorism, including the use of the Internet for terrorist 
activities. Any joint response to a sudden outbreak of 
terrorism and extremism should be commensurate with 
the scope of that threat.
The  prevention  of  drug-trafficking,  which  has 
unfortunately  continued  to  increase  yearly,  should 
become an integral part of our common struggle against 
terrorism  and  global  organized  crime.  Money  earned 
from  drug-trafficking  is  channelled  to  financing  acts 
of terror and organized crime activities. In that context, 
the special session on drugs to be held in 2016 will offer 
an opportunity not only to review the implementation 
of  the  Political  Declaration  and  Plan  of  Action  on 
International  Cooperation  towards  an  Integrated  and 
Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem, 
but  also  to  develop  new  and  effective  measures  for 
combating that evil. In the light of those efforts, in May 
Tajikistan held a high-level international conference on 
drug  control  that  sought  to  consolidate  international 
cooperation on counter-narcotics.
embarked  on 
the 
implementation  of 
Our  friendly  neighbouring  nation  of  Afghanistan 
has 
its 
transformation decade. The new stage of enhancing and 
reinforcing the security and stability of the country and 
the rehabilitation of its economic and social sectors is 
being accompanied by addressing the most urgent and 
practical issues, which requires increasing the targeted 
assistance of the international community, in which the 
United Nations should play a central and coordinating 
role. Tajikistan is in favour of expanding friendly and 
good-neighbourly relations with Afghanistan and calls 
on the international community to support the efforts 
of  the  Government  of  that  country  to  achieve  peace 
and  stability  by  addressing  the  social  and  economic 
challenges that the country faces, pursuing the process 
of  national  reconciliation  and  inclusive  dialogue, 
and  involving  the  country  in  regional  cooperation. 
Tajikistan  continues  to  make  its  contribution  to  the 
social and economic development of Afghanistan.
The  peaceful  solution  of  the  issue  of  the  Iranian 
nuclear  programme  demonstrated 
the  enormous 
potential  of  diplomatic  means  to  resolve  the  urgent 
problems of our shared planet. We are convinced that the 
Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  on  Iran’s  nuclear 
programme,  enshrined  in  Security  Council  resolution 
2231  (2015),  will  contribute  to  the  strengthening  of 
regional and international peace, genuine stability and 
mutual  trust  and  be  instrumental  in  reinforcing  the 
nuclear non-proliferation regime. We hope that United 
Nations  Member  States  will  be  guided  by  good  will 
and  resolve  to  resolve  the  most  urgent  disputes  and 
conflicts,  by  using  political  and  diplomatic  means,  in 
addressing other urgent issues.
Last July, Tajikistan hosted regional consultations 
for  the  countries  of  South  and  Central  Asia  in 
preparation of the World Humanitarian Summit in 2016 
in Istanbul. We hope that the recommendations voiced 
at those consultations will have a positive effect on the 
humanitarian activities of all countries.
In  December,  the  international  community  will 
meet  again  at  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change in Paris to conclude the round of negotiations 
on climate change that we began in Bali. We hope that 
Member States will take advantage of that opportunity 
and adopt a new document on climate change, based on 
the principles of the Framework Convention and, by so 
doing, lay the foundations of a transition to sustainable 
development.  We  believe  that  such  a  transition  will 
15-29431
9/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
require  not  only  industrial  modernization,  based  on 
innovative technologies, but also significant changes in 
mentalities and consumption patterns.
confirm  that,  since  the  1960s,  the  region’s  glaciers, 
which  remain  the  main  source  of  water  for  Central 
Asian rivers, have been degraded by a factor of three.
The  long-term  observations  of  our  experts  attest 
to  the  increased  impact  of  climate  change  on  the 
environmental,  social  and  economic  situation  in  our 
country  and  region.  According  to  those  observations, 
over the past 60 years the average annual temperature in 
Tajikistan has increased by 1°C, the number of days with 
heavy  precipitation  has  risen,  natural  meteorological 
disasters  have  become  more  frequent  and  severe,  and 
the  degradation  of  glaciers  has  accelerated.  This  past 
summer, as a result of the abnormally high temperature 
and  severe  precipitation,  the  mountainous  part  of  the 
country suffered natural disasters that caused hundreds 
of millions of United States dollars in economic damage. 
Regrettably, these disasters also claimed human lives.
In  terms  of  carbon  dioxide  emissions,  Tajikistan 
ranks one hundred and thirty-fifth among greenhouse 
gas-emitting  countries.  Per  capita  greenhouse  gas 
emissions  in  the  country  is  10  times  less  than  that  of 
the average world index. Widespread use of renewable 
energy sources — predominantly hydropower — would 
facilitate  the  economic  and  social  development  of  the 
country and promote the “green economy”.
It is becoming apparent that climate change affects 
the  quantity  and  quality  of  freshwater  resources.  It  is 
known  that  as  a  result  of  climate  change,  the  amount 
of  water  resources  stored  in  glaciers  and  snow  caps 
has  diminished,  the  area  of  ground  waters  affected 
by  salinization  has  increased,  and  precipitation  has 
become more frequent and heavier. In turn, the changes 
in  the  hydrological  cycle  may  have  a  negative  impact 
on water, energy and food security and entail an added 
risk of floods and extreme droughts. We believe that in 
such  circumstances,  it  is  essential  to  review  existing 
practices  of  water-resource  management  in  order  to 
ensure adequate adaptation not only to climate change, 
but  also  to  population  growth  and  a  changing  world 
economy,  as  well  as  to  the  scarcity  of  freshwater 
resources.
In  Central  Asia,  where  water  resources  are  a  key 
factor in achieving the sustainable development of the 
region, the need for the elaboration of a comprehensive 
regional plan of adaptation to climate change became 
urgent long ago. This imperative is also driven by the 
accelerated degradation of the glaciers in the region as 
a result of climate change. The observations of expert 
include 
the  achievement  of 
As  2015  is  the  final  year  of  the  International 
Decade  for  Action,  “Water  for  Life”,  2005-2015,  a 
global  initiative  approved  by  the  General  Assembly 
to  facilitate 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  a  number  of  water  forums  have 
been  held  to  review  progress  and  analyse  gaps  in  the 
implementation  of  the  International  Decade.  Such 
forums 
the  General  Assembly  high-level 
interactive dialogue for a comprehensive review of the 
progress  on  the  implementation  of  the  International 
Decade, held last March here in New York, and a high-
level international conference on the implementation of 
the International Decade held in Dushanbe, in June. We 
expect that, in taking stock of the results of the Decade, 
the United Nations will take on board the outcomes of 
these events and other relevant forums held in support 
of a comprehensive review of the implementation of the 
Decade.
I 
take 
this  opportunity 
to  extend  my  deep 
appreciation  to  the  Member  States,  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly,  the  Secretary-General,  the 
United Nations agencies and institutions, international 
organizations,  and  representatives  of  civil  society, 
academia  and  business  for  actively  participating  in 
and implementing the Decade and for following up its 
outcomes.
A  few  days  ago,  we  adopted  a  road  map  for 
achieving sustainable development that comprehensively 
incorporates  the  water  component.  Over  the  next 
15  years,  against  the  backdrop  of  the  ever-increasing 
impact  of  climate  change  on  water 
resources, 
environmental  degradation,  population  growth  and 
food and energy crises, we will have to make enormous 
efforts to ensure the timely achievement of the goals we 
have set forth.
In our view, fostering cooperation, partnership and 
water  diplomacy  will  promote  the  timely  adoption  of 
relevant measures to mitigate the impact of destructive 
processes and help to achieve Sustainable Development 
Goals.  In  this  context,  there  is  a  need  for  additional 
platforms  for  strengthening  cooperation  at  all  levels 
with the engagement of all interested stakeholders. In 
this regard, and given the positive outcomes of previous 
joint initiatives, we propose to consider the possibility 
of proclaiming a new international water decade, aimed 
10/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
at  promoting  the  implementation  of  the  new  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  We  sincerely 
hope that all States Members of the United Nations will 
lend their support to make this initiative a reality.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Tajikistan for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Emomali  Rahmon,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Tajikistan,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Sauli Niinistö, President of the 
Republic of Finland
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Finland.
Mr.  Sauli  Niinistö,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Sauli Niinistö, President of the Republic 
of Finland, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Niinistö: Let me begin by congratulating 
you, Sir, on your election as President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session.  You  have  the  full 
support of Finland in your important task.
We  are  celebrating  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the United Nations. The Charter of the United Nations 
was written in a world that lay in ruins after the Second 
World  War.  Today,  we  must  face  our  challenges  with 
the same determination our predecessors had in 1945. 
By  adopting  the  ambitious  new  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) we are taking 
equally, or even more important steps, for humankind.
This  year  also  marks  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of 
Finland’s  membership  of  the  Organization.  Finland 
joined a family of countries that care and shoulder their 
responsibilities.  We  felt  this  concern  when  Finnish 
national composer Jean Sibelius passed away in 1957. 
The  General  Assembly  decided  to  honour  him  with  a 
moment  of  silence.  The  President  of  the  Assembly  at 
that session, Mr. Leslie Munro, described how Sibelius 
belonged to the whole world. We also understood what 
shouldering responsibility means by participating in the 
first United Nations peacekeeping operation in Suez.
We are now facing an extremely dangerous crisis 
in  Syria,  Iraq  and  parts  of  North  Africa.  We  are  also 
witnessing an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe 
unlike  any  other  since  the  Second  World  War.  The 
Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL)  and  its 
horrendous terror are a direct by-product of the conflicts 
in Syria and Iraq. It threatens the peace and stability of 
the Middle East, Africa and even Europe. We are facing 
a new era of migration, largely due to wars and conflict. 
Around 60 million refugees, the largest number since 
the Second World War, clearly attest to this.
The  current  refugee  situation  in  the  Middle  East, 
in  many  parts  of  Africa  and  in  the  Mediterranean  is 
unbearable 
for  everyone.  Although  neighbouring 
countries bear the heaviest burden, the refugee crisis is 
causing serious political tension in Europe. Finland is 
also receiving a very high number of asylum-seekers. 
Not  providing  assistance  is  not  an  option  for  us,  but 
we  have  to  find  more  effective  and  sustainable  ways 
to help those in need. Resolving the conflict in Syria 
and elsewhere is essential to any lasting solution. The 
international community must show that it cares. The 
Security  Council  and  the  countries  in  the  region  in 
particular must work together to find a political solution 
to the crisis in Syria. Finland welcomes all constructive 
efforts  that  pave  the  way  for  realistic,  workable  and 
lasting  peace  within  a  framework  of  international 
cooperation.  Finland  also  remains  committed  to  the 
work of the Global Coalition to Counter ISIL.
The  conflict  in  Ukraine  has  not  been  resolved, 
although an agreement to this end has been approved. 
We welcome the steps taken towards the implementation 
of the Minsk agreement. All illegal measures, such as 
the  annexation  of  Crimea  to  Russia,  cannot  and  must 
not be accepted.
These  conflicts  are  not  the  only  ones.  Last  year 
alone,  there  were  42  armed  conflicts  that  resulted 
in  approximately  180,000  fatalities.  Wars  and  their 
consequences continue to threaten stability far beyond 
the war zone itself. United Nations peace operations are 
at the very heart of its efforts to maintain international 
peace  and  security,  yet  the  scope  and  complexity  of 
today’s violent conflicts have surpassed the ability of 
the international community to address them properly. 
Critical  thinking,  flexibility  and  decisive  action  are 
needed to manage and resolve those crises. The initiative 
to carry out major reviews of the United Nations peace 
and security architecture was therefore most timely.
15-29431
11/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
I very much welcome the excellent report produced 
by  President  Ramos-Horta’s  High-level  Independent 
Panel  on  Peace  Operations  (A/70/357).  It  rightly 
stresses  the  primacy  of  politics;  political  solutions 
must  always  guide  the  deployment  of  United  Nations 
peace  operations.  The  United  Nations  prevention 
and  mediation  capacities  must  be  strengthened 
and  sufficiently  funded.  Finland  is  proud  to  have 
contributed  to  that  shift  of  paradigm,  especially  by 
co-chairing the Group of Friends of Mediation, together 
with  Turkey.  The  Group  of  Friends  will  continue  its 
efforts  to  advance  the  recommendations  of  the  Panel. 
Since  the  beginning  of  its  membership,  Finland  has 
contributed 50,000 men and women to United Nations 
peacekeeping  operations.  In  per  capita  terms,  we  are 
the second-largest contributor in Europe, and we will 
further increase our contribution. We will shoulder our 
responsibility.
Let  me  add  that  this  year  also  marks  a  major 
success  of  international  diplomacy  —  the  historic 
agreement  reach  on  the  Iran  nuclear  programme.  We 
look  forward  to  the  swift  implementation  by  Iran  of 
all the nuclear measures and its full engagement with 
the International Atomic Energy Agency to resolve all 
outstanding issues.
Humankind  faces  the  need  for  profound  change. 
We cannot continue business as usual, which is a way 
of life transcends our planet’s boundaries and exhausts 
the  Earth’s  resources.  We  have  all  the  facts  at  our 
disposal. For example, on global warming, it is up to us 
to act. We can choose or lose our future. I believe that 
we are on the right track. We have just adopted the new 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1), which has the potential to transform the world. 
For the very first time, we have a real programme for 
sustainable  development  binding  all  Member  States. 
Now it is up to us to implement that ambitious agenda.
I urge the United Nations to once again demonstrate 
its convening power. We must get everybody on board 
to make the commitments a reality. The private sector 
and  civil  society  are  in  a  key  position  to  take  the 
Agenda  forward,  together  with  Governments.  Even 
individual  persons  have  a  role  to  play.  Another  vital 
step in tackling global challenges is yet to take place; I 
refer to the twenty-first session of the Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change in Paris in December. Let us make 
it  a  success.  We  must  care  for  our  children  and  their 
children.
The  post  of  the  Secretary-General  has  been 
called the most impossible job in the world. Actually, 
it is not only a job — it is an institution of which the 
whole United Nations membership should feel a sense 
of  ownership.  Strong  political  leadership  is  required, 
especially in cases where the international community 
is unable to find common views. I very much welcome 
efforts  to  enhance  the  transparency  and  inclusiveness 
of the selection process of the next Secretary-General. 
As  a  nation  that  has  championed  gender  equality 
throughout its 60-year United Nations membership, my 
country, Finland, expects to see many excellent female 
candidates for the position. It is high time that the other 
half of humankind took up that challenge.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Finland 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Sauli  Niinistö,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, President 
of Mongolia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of Mongolia.
Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, President of Mongolia, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Elbegdorj  Tsakhia,  President  of 
Mongolia, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Tsakhia: 
I  extend  my  heartfelt 
congratulations to you, Mr. President. You can count on 
my delegation’s full support during the jubilee session 
and the year ahead.
We are commemorating the seventieth anniversary 
of the United Nations. As a family of nations, our hopes 
for peace and progress, as expressed in the Charter of 
the  United  Nations,  still  resonates  deeply  today.  The 
United  Nations  is  designed  to  uphold  humankind’s 
primary  aspirations  to  live  in  peace,  enjoy  equal 
rights  and  achieve  everlasting  happiness.  The  United 
Nations has tirelessly served those noble purposes for 
seven  decades.  If  the  United  Nations  did  not  exist, 
most  of  humankind  would  have  ended  up  in  violent 
confrontations  and  faced  more  arduous,  complex 
challenges than those that have arisen.
12/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
Together,  we  have  achieved  a  lot  and  we  have 
charted  a  better  course.  The  number  of  sovereign 
nations  has  quadrupled  since  1945.  The  world’s 
economic output has increased fivefold. Human beings 
enjoy longer, healthier lives. We are more literate and 
educated.  Today,  the  world  has  achieved  the  highest 
degree of international cooperation in history. Starting 
with the founding of the United Nations, Governments 
have  steadily  invested  more  and  more  in  new  means 
of  cooperation.  Those  tools  create  new  options,  more 
space for compromises and more legal frameworks than 
humankind  has  ever  possessed.  The  United  Nations 
has  justly  become  the  primary  universal  organization 
working for peace, instead of war; prosperity, instead 
of poverty; and a dignified life for all, instead of human 
rights violations. Hence, I would like to state that the 
past 70 years were the best 70 years ever for humankind.
The  founding  of  the  United  Nations,  a  historic 
milestone,  connects  our  past,  present  and  future.  All 
of  humankind  is  poised  to  make  another  great  stride 
towards a new, better reality. I am hopeful for the future 
because we have the United Nations, because we have 
useful  experience  to  tackle  today’s  challenges,  and 
because a new generation of humankind is rising. The 
new generation has creative solutions to challenges and 
sees  new  opportunities  in  them.  It  shares  knowledge 
and advance technologies.
At  this  moment  more  than  ever  in  history,  we 
share  a  common  destiny  as  a  family  of  nations;  yet, 
despite  our  achievements,  billions  of  people  still  live 
in  forbidding  conditions.  Our  home,  Mother  Earth,  is 
becoming more turbulent and is in fragile health. The 
Second  World  War  is  behind  us  and  the  arms  race  of 
the  Cold  War  ended  two  decades  ago.  Many  military 
conflicts  today  are  not  tied  to  defending  a  particular 
territory,  but  are  motivated  by  borderless  ideological, 
criminal and religious goals.
Ms.  Mejía  Vélez  (Colombia),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Paradoxically, although we are more aware of those 
challenges  and  understand  them  better  than  ever,  we 
seem unable to tackle them decisively and effectively. 
That  is  why  we  have  gathered  here  and  embarked 
on  a  momentous  new  journey  to  do  much  better  to 
transform our world. The only way to bring peace and 
stability is through a system of rules and norms, laws 
and institutions that every country agrees to abide by 
in  exchange  for  the  benefits  of  peace  and  stability.  If 
the United Nations fails to adopt a system of laws, we 
all  will  fail.  The  future  is  not  only  about  the  United 
Nations.  The  future  is  about  all  of  us.  It  is  about  our 
community; it is about our family. Therefore, we have 
no right to fail.
for  Sustainable  Development 
We  have  recently  shown  that  we  can  make 
positive changes. At the dawn of the new century, we 
adopted  and  have  since  implemented  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  We  achieved  many  targets,  yet 
failed  to  achieve  some  others.  Still,  by  and  large, 
the  global  community  passed  the  test.  We  learned 
lessons about working together and made huge strides 
towards  achieving  positive  goals.  With  the  2030 
Agenda 
(resolution 
70/1),  the  international  community  produced  a  new 
history-making  document.  The  entire  United  Nations 
family  agreed  on  that  road  map  towards  sustainable 
development.  Now  humankind  has  a  truly  universal, 
ambitious  action  plan  for  the  upcoming  15  years.  A 
consensus-based, global platform, the Agenda is for all, 
because every single human being holds a stake in our 
planet’s future. The 17 Goals and 169 targets are real. 
Yet, they also embody the dream of humankind. Never 
before in history have nations reached such a universal 
and unanimous agreement.
Our  historic  2030  Agenda  is  comprehensive  and 
sustainable.  We  have  agreed  on  urgent  targets  on  a 
broad range of economic and social challenges and on 
environmental  emergencies.  Is  that  not  miraculous? 
With one voice, the entire world shouldered a mountain 
of  responsibilities  and  adopted  these  bold  Goals.  In 
the  Agenda,  I  recognize  the  overarching  objectives 
for  global  sustainable  development.  I  note  that  the 
Goals  are  intended  literally  to  save  Mother  Earth  for 
future generations, which I can readily accept to save a 
happy, equal human race. I believe that we must build 
inclusive,  capable  institutions  and  create  prosperous, 
peaceful,  open,  just,  equitable  societies.  In  order  to 
advance those societies, the family of nations needs a 
robust, inclusive and open mechanisms. We must have 
reliable  implementing,  monitoring  and  accountability 
regulations and institutions in place. I appeal to every 
Member  State  to  adopt  national  laws  and  policies  to 
implement  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Such 
laws and policies would ensure their sustainability.
I  am  deeply  proud  of  my  country’s  contributions 
to  the  common  causes  of  humankind.  During  the 
past  quarter  century,  Mongolia  has 
relentlessly 
striven  to  build  an  open  and  just  society  with  a  free 
15-29431
13/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
economy,  participatory  democracy 
market 
and 
environmentally  conscientious  policies.  We  have 
made  notable  progress  in  the  areas  of  governance 
transparency, citizens’ participation and the reduction 
of corruption and poverty. In the past quarter century, 
the  life  expectancy  of  Mongolians  has  increased  by 
seven  years.  Our  gross  domestic  product  (GDP)  has 
increased  by  a  factor  of  more  than  20.  We  believe  in 
human  rights  and  human  creativity,  and  we  foster 
private  initiatives.  Our  private  sector  generates  more 
than  80  per  cent  of  our  GDP  growth.  My  country, 
within  a  single  generation,  peacefully  transformed 
from one of the most isolated and closed regimes in the 
world to one of its most vibrant and open democracies. 
Mongolia  also  created  one  of  the  most  unique,  open, 
competitive and fair election systems in our region. It 
has  nationwide  electronic  voting  and  biometric  voter 
registration. We no longer use wooden or paper boxes 
or  finger  inks,  and  public  participation  goes  beyond 
electronic voting.
Corruption is still a big threat. Yet, over the past five 
years,  with  transparent,  determined  and  enforceable 
policies,  our  country’s  corruption  index  has  dropped 
by one-third, according to Transparency International. 
We  will  continue  to  block  the  menace  of  corruption 
head-on.  Mongolia  is  among  the  top  countries  in  the 
world  in  the  number  of  media  tools  used  per  capita. 
We have the most open, censorship-free private media, 
including social media and burgeoning Internet use. We 
have slightly more than 3 million citizens, yet it feels 
like  there  are  3  million  journalists,  too.  New  media 
technologies,  transparency  and  public  scrutiny  make 
our society much healthier.
We  have  adopted  and  implemented  a  set  of  laws 
related  to  an  open,  fair,  service-oriented  judiciary. 
Because  the  process  takes  place  under  strict  civil 
monitoring, people’s confidence in a fair court of law 
is being restored. We have also created regulations and 
institutions regarding public hearings and participatory 
democracy.  We  are  also  prudently  enforcing  a  law 
called the Glass Account — a budget transparency law 
that requires full disclosure of public expenditures.
Education  is  key  to  human  development  and 
the  county’s  development.  More  than  one-third  of 
our  population  is  engaged  in  educational  activities. 
More  student-centred  than  previously,  our  education 
system  emphasizes  their  practical  involvement  in 
learning.  Our  Government  also  now  covers  tuition  if 
a Mongolian citizen is accepted into one of the world’s 
top universities.
We  believe  in  gender  equality  and  women’s 
empowerment.  Mongolia  is  a  strong  supporter  of 
the  United  Nations  in  that  cause.  If  societies  are  to 
advance, we need more women in public service at all 
levels, local and global. If women hold more positions 
of power, we will have less suffering and conflict and 
more harmony and civic engagement. All such efforts 
on  the  part  of  Mongolian  citizens  constitute  a  just, 
transparent, inclusive, accountable and action-oriented 
platform to guide us on a sustainable development path. 
I am confident that building on those bedrock successes 
and decisively moving forward is compatible with your 
appeal, Mr. President, for a new commitment to action.
Today,  the  world  faces  a  shocking  range  of  new 
challenges on a global scale — from weapons of mass 
destruction  to  global  warming;  from  human  rights 
violations  to  humanitarian  disasters;  from  heinous 
crimes and mass terror to the breakdown of sovereign 
States;  from  an  uncertain  supply  of  energy,  food  and 
water  to  new  challenges  to  freedom  and  security.  In 
facing global challenges, we must admit one thing — no 
one country, big or small, can address them on its own. 
Therefore,  the  coordinated  actions  of  all  players  and 
countries are needed.
When  all  cultures  and  civilizations  unite,  we  can 
tackle  global  challenges.  The  upcoming  twenty-first 
session  of  the  Conference  of  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to 
be  held  in  Paris  later  this  year,  will  be  the  first  new 
test. It will require the widest possible cooperation ofall 
countries. We all must bear responsibility for protecting 
planet  Earth  and  its  ecosystems  for  the  benefit  of 
present  and  future  generations.  We  must  all  work  to 
ensure justice and fairness throughout the world. Every 
nation and Government must actively contribute to the 
global  good  according  to  their  respective  capabilities 
and responsibilities. 
Mongolia has committed to always doing its humble 
share  to  promote  global  well-being.  We  Mongols  are 
eager  to  contribute.  Our  peacekeepers  proudly  serve, 
along  with  fellow  United  Nations  peacekeepers,  to 
maintain international order and security. Mongolia has 
become one of the 20 largest peacekeeping contributors 
in the world. To date, 14,000 Mongolian peacekeepers 
have served on active duty in global hot spots. That is 
14/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
a  significant  number  in  proportion  to  the  size  of  our 
population. 
revolution,  in  order  to  bring  greater  prosperity  to 
humankind. 
We  are  enthusiastic  to  share  our  experiences  in 
transitioning  to  democracy  in  our  quest  for  freedom, 
justice  and  development.  When  Mongolian  citizens 
share  and  actively  collaborate  with  countries  in  our 
region  and  beyond,  we  make  our  own  success  more 
durable. We care deeply about global stability. Mongols 
believe that we must preserve our planet by eliminating 
nuclear weapons throughout the world.
For 23 years, our country has maintained a nuclear-
weapon-free  status.  Any  nation  seeking  nuclear 
power  must  not  endanger  the  peace  and  security  of 
their  independent  neighbours.  We  believe  that  the 
solution to those challenges is engagement, rather than 
isolation.  We  believe  that  strengthening  multilateral 
collaboration  and  mutual  trust  among  countries  is 
vital.  In  Asia,  Mongolia  is  a  non-aligned  nation  and 
an  honest  broker  that  promotes  peace  and  security. 
We launched a regional initiative similar to that of the 
Helsinki dialogue, known as the Ulaanbaatar Dialogue 
on  North-East  Asian  Security.  Within  that  security 
initiative, Mongolia has hosted and has helped arrange 
multilateral  meetings,  conferences,  and  symposiums 
to  examine  peace  and  security  issues.  We  also  put 
forward a common platform called the Asian Forum for 
Human  Rights  and  Development,  or  FORUM-Asia.  A 
compelling need exists to establish a solid and inclusive 
platform  for  comprehensive  dialogues  involving  all 
Asian States. 
FORUM-Asia  would  seek  to  promote  an  equal 
representation of the interests of all sovereign nations 
in Asia, whether big or small. All nations would bear 
in  mind  the  concerns  of  all  other  nations,  rather  than 
wrestle  one-on-one  within  the  global  arena.  It  would 
ensure each member State its independence, integrity, 
and  right  to  development.  We  invite  all  interested 
parties to play an active part of that cause. 
Our country also successfully chaired the world’s 
most reputable democracy movement, the Community 
of Democracies, for two years. Currently, Mongolia is 
chairing the Freedom Online Coalition. The first Asian 
country to lead that important community, we promote 
universal Internet access. We support a comprehensive 
convention on Internet freedom, to be agreed to by all 
United Nations Member States. I appeal to everyone to 
work  collectively  to  advance  the  great,  global  digital 
Mongolia  has  pursued  a  peaceful,  open  and 
multi-pillared  foreign  policy.  That  stance  has  enabled 
us  to  declare  Mongolia  to  be  a  State  of  permanent 
neutrality.  Our  national  laws  and  the  international 
treaties to which Mongolia is signatory are consistent 
with the principles of neutrality. I therefore kindly ask 
for Members’ understanding and support for Mongolia’s 
peaceful, open, neutral and active foreign policy efforts. 
I  am  convinced  that  Mongolia’s  status  of  permanent 
neutrality will contribute to the strengthening of peace, 
security and development in our region and the world, 
in general. 
Recently, Mongolia hosted the Asia Pacific Forum 
of  National  Human  Rights  Institutions,  and  for  the 
first  time  in  our  country,  the  autumn  meeting  of  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
Parliamentary  Assembly  was  convened.  The  human 
rights  experts  and  the  European  parliamentarians 
had  fruitful,  lively  discussions  and  exchanges.  The 
conference  also  provided  a  splendid  opportunity  for 
them to comprehend at first hand our achievements in 
protecting  and  advancing  human  rights,  in  exercising 
the  rule  of  law  and  in  running  a  pluralistic  and  open 
society. 
We  are  honoured  to  be  hosting  many  events 
in  the  coming  months  and  year  in  our  capital  city. 
Most  importantly,  the  eleventh  Asia-Europe  Meeting 
(ASEM)  will  be  held  in  Mongolia  in  the  summer  of 
2016. Leaders of 53 countries in Asia and Europe will 
meet  in  Mongolia  on  the  historic  twentieth  jubilee  of 
the  founding  of  ASEM.  I  earnestly  look  forward  to 
welcoming  them.  Mongolia  will  further  consolidate 
and  strengthen  our  peace  initiatives  and  our  role  as 
mediator.  Our  doors  are  always  open  for  dialogue 
and engagement. We will always say that all are very 
welcome to cooperate with us in the spirit of freedom, 
justice and prosperity. We are ready to share the lessons 
we  have  learned  and  to  listen  to  and  learn  from  the 
lessons of other nations. 
I  wish  to  stress  that  Mongolia  is  running  for  the 
first  time  for  membership  on  the  United  Nations 
Human  Rights  Council.  We  believe  that  the  Human 
Rights  Council  is  a  crucial  body  for  the  protection 
and  promotion  of  human  rights  worldwide.  It  is  a 
platform for open discussions on human rights issues, 
and  it  positively  impacts  national  and  international 
15-29431
15/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
policies. Mongolia reaffirms its full commitment to the 
promotion of human rights and our willingness to share 
our experience in transitioning to democracy, fighting 
against  corruption,  abolishing  the  death  penalty  and 
ensuring  genuine  human  rights.  I  respectfully  ask 
every  Member  State  to  extend  its  valuable  support  to 
Mongolia’s candidacy for the Human Rights Council at 
the October elections. 
We,  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations, 
need  to  mobilize  the  full  potential  of  humankind 
to  achieve  the  primary  purpose  for  establishing  the 
United  Nations,  namely,  the  promotion  of  peace,  the 
respect  for  human  rights  and  inclusive  economic  and 
social  development.  I  believe  that,  in  the  twenty-first 
century,  the  United  Nations  will  remain  at  the  heart 
of our common humanity. Its mission will be defined 
by a new, more profound awareness of the sanctity and 
dignity of every human life, regardless of race, gender 
or religion. Nevertheless, there are still numerous cases 
involving cruel violations of human dignity and rights. 
One thing is certain: every nation State should always 
strive for good governance, the strict rule of law and a 
sound human rights policy. 
I  reiterate  the  appeals  of  all  speakers  in  the 
Assembly  that  we  must  vow  to  exercise  clear  and 
decisive  leadership  in  effectively  tackling  the  tough 
challenges  ahead  and  in  fulfilling  the  core  missions 
of the United Nations. We have many opportunities to 
benefit  the  world.  We  are  the  first  in  history  to  have 
the  potential,  technology  and  resources  to  resolve  the 
world’s problems. 
When I observe a giant display of military might, I 
think of the huge amount of money, human ingenuity and 
time that are being spent on war machines and weapons 
of mass destruction. With a fraction of the money that 
we spend and the technology that we develop to put on 
such macho war shows, we could solve many of today’s 
troubling  issues.  We  also  have  a  smart,  tech-savvy, 
energetic young generation, who will soon shoulder our 
tough  challenges  with  their  innovative,  dynamic  and 
shrewd solutions. They give us hope and reassure us. 
I would like to reiterate that the solemn purpose of 
the United Nations has always been to enhance global 
peace,  protect  fellow  human  beings  and  contribute  to 
global well-being. We all know there are well-founded 
criticisms of the United Nations. If our United Nations 
is  to  survive  in  the  new  reality,  we  must  embrace 
substantive change. We need reforms to build a just and 
common home. If we delay action, change will become 
more  painful  and  even  more  challenging.  The  United 
Nations is still our most representative and important 
global body. Its foundation is based on the preservation 
of the rights and interests of all nations, whether big or 
small, so that they may have a voice, a vote, and be part 
of our common human home. More relevant than ever, 
the United Nations is our common home where nations 
can meet and create solutions to solve the challenges of 
the world. If the 70 years since the United Nations was 
founded were the best 70 years ever, as I believe, then 
let us make the next 70 years even better.
We humans are at our best when we face challenges 
and  when  we  exercise  collective  bravery,  spirit  and 
leadership.  With  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
we  all  become  developing  countries  and  we  all  have 
a  stake  in  our  plans  for  success.  There  is  no  future 
without peace, there is no planet without sustainability, 
and there is no humanity without justice. Let us strive 
for victory. Let us all be champions, Let us raise all our 
flags  at  the  finish  line,  and  let  us  all  proudly  present 
them to our beautiful planet’s next generation.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of Mongolia for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, President of Mongolia, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Klaus Werner Iohannis, President 
of Romania
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
Romania.
Mr. Klaus Werner Iohannis, President of Romania, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Klaus  Werner  Iohannis, 
President of Romania, and to invite him to address the 
General Assembly.
President  Iohannis:  My  delegation  would  like 
to  congratulate  the  President  on  his  assuming  the 
presidency  of  this  important  session.  We  have  found 
inspiration  in  the  theme  of  the  session:  “The  United 
Nations at 70 — a new commitment to action”. Allow 
me  also  to  express  my  appreciation  to  Denmark, 
an  example  of  true  dedication  to  the  work  of  the 
16/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
Organization  and  one  of  the  very  few  Members  that 
have  met  the  commitment  to  allocate  0.7  per  cent  of 
its  gross  domestic  product  for  official  development 
assistance.
The  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations 
is yet another opportunity for a lucid reflection on the 
lessons  learned  and  the  future  of  our  Organization. 
What  we  have  seen  is  a  visionary  project  born  from 
the  ashes  of  a  terrible  tragedy,  with  the  lofty  goal  of 
saving succeeding generations from the scourge of war. 
We have seen a working agenda that has continuously 
expanded  into  new  areas  of  cooperation,  within  and 
beyond  its  main  pillars,  namely,  peace  and  security, 
development  and  human  rights.  We  have  witnessed 
the  continuous  efforts  of  the  Organization  and  its 
Member States to adapt to new challenges and to major 
shifts in the paradigm of international relations. As a 
consequence, the United Nations has steadily developed 
new  mandates,  reaching  a  level  of  complexity  never 
seen  before.  Of  course,  the  United  Nations  is  not  a 
panacea  for  all  the  evils  of  humankind.  Its  history  is 
one of ups and downs, achievements and failures. At the 
same time, we all know that the increasing number and 
depth of the tasks entrusted to it have not been matched 
by the resources needed to accomplish all of its goals. It 
has become common practice to ask the United Nations 
to do more with less.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  after  70  years 
of  being  tested  against  all  winds,  has  proved  to 
be  a  visionary  document  that  has  stood  the  test  of 
history.  The  Charter  was  drafted  as  a  solid  corpus  of 
principles and norms for international conduct. It was 
conceived in an intelligent manner that allowed enough 
flexibility  for  designing  the  actual  ways  and  means 
to  cope  with  increasingly  complex  situations.  The 
United Nations has steadily consolidated its universal 
vocation  and  legitimacy.  It  has  created  and  promoted 
an  impressive  body  of  international  law  that  touches 
on  almost  all  domains  of  international  cooperation. 
It  may  occasionally  have  been  convenient  for  some 
Member  States  or  other  stakeholders  to  point  to  the 
failures  of  the  Organization.  We  should  try  harder  to 
point to the magnitude of the prevention work carried 
out  by  the  Organization.  Prevention  being  admittedly 
much  more  difficult  to  measure,  we  have  tended  to 
underestimate its importance among the achievements 
of  the  Organization.  In  the  same  vein,  it  is  worth 
reminding ourselves that the United Nations is neither 
an organization born out of the blue nor an independent 
and  self-ruling  entity.  The  United  Nations  is  nothing 
but we ourselves, the Member States, living in the trust 
and resources we invest in it. 
Romania  is  among  the  countries  that  have  fully 
trusted  and  unconditionally  supported  the  United 
Nations. The year 2015 is a special one for my country, 
because this year we celebrate the sixtieth anniversary 
of  Romania’s  admission  to  the  Organization.  The 
United  Nations  has  helped  Romania  in  various  ways 
over  various  periods  of  the  post-Second  World  War 
era. In the beginning, despite having been part of the 
monolithic  group  of  former  Communist  countries, 
Romania found in those years, a propitious framework, 
here  in  the  United  Nations,  within  which  to  assert 
its  national  independence  and  to  make  friends  and 
partners  throughout  the  world.  Later  on,  the  United 
Nations  provided  my  country  with  the  opportunity  to 
engage in the debates over and action on global issues 
through dialogue and cooperation across all continents. 
In  the  aftermath  of  the  Cold  War,  the  United  Nations 
was  actively  engaged  in  supporting  Romania  during 
its difficult economic transformation and the transition 
towards democracy. The funds and programmes of the 
United Nations assisted Romania in addressing social 
problems  related  to  children,  population,  health  and 
the  environment,  along  with  many  others.  Allow  me, 
in particular, to thank the United Nations Development 
Programme for its 45-year presence in my country.
Our  sixtieth  anniversary  allows  us  to  take  a 
retrospective look. Romania is a country with limited 
economic power. Nonetheless, we take pride in having 
made some significant contributions to United Nations 
goals  throughout  our  six  decades  of  membership.  In 
essence, they were based on a reliance on multilateral 
diplomacy and international law and the pre-eminence 
of peaceful means over the use of force in the pursuit of 
national interests.
Romania  has  often  been  at  the  frontline  of  major 
United  Nations  campaigns.  I  would  like  to  highlight 
just a few of the topics that were the focus of initiatives 
undertaken by Romania in the General Assembly, the 
Security Council and the various human rights bodies. 
They include, inter alia, arms control and disarmament, 
good relations among neighbouring States, the role of 
science and technology in development, a more effective 
and  influential  role  for  youth,  increased  cooperation 
between the United Nations and regional organizations 
and arrangements, and the promotion and consolidation 
of democracy. Since 1991, Romanian contingents have 
15-29431
17/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
participated  in  peacekeeping  operations  across  all 
continents  from  Angola  to  Cambodia,  from  Somalia 
to  Haiti,  and  from  the  former  Yugoslavia  to  Rwanda. 
Moreover, Romania hosts the Institute for the Protection 
and  the  Security  of  the  Citizen,  which  contributes  to 
the  training  of  special  categories  of  United  Nations 
peacekeepers.
Since  2008,  Romania  has  been  part  of  one  of  the 
most  innovative  arrangements  for  the  protection  of 
refugees  through  its  hosting  of  the  first  Emergency 
Transit  Centre 
in  Timişoara,  as  a  result  of  an 
agreement with the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  the  International 
Organization for Migration. After almost two decades 
as  a  recipient,  Romania  has  thus  itself  become  a 
provider of official development assistance to countries 
in our neighbourhood and beyond.
On the occasion of its seventieth anniversary, the 
United Nations does not need to prove the legitimacy 
of  its  actions.  What  the  Organization  needs  is  a 
strengthened capacity and readiness to act and galvanize 
the political will of Member States, so as to be able to 
further  enhance  its  role  in  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security  and  in  delivering  global  public 
goods.  That  role  is,  once  again,  being  dramatically 
tested these days.
The  United  Nations  is  called  upon  to  make,  in 
concert  with  regional  organizations  and  individual 
States, new commitments to the fight against terrorism 
in  all  its  manifestations  —  whether  they  be  the 
cowardly crimes against innocent people, the barbarous 
destruction  of 
the  common  cultural  heritage  of 
humankind, or the unprecedented and abhorrent form 
of terrorism developed by what is known as the Islamic 
State in Iraq and the Levant, whose actions constitute 
clear violations of international law and human rights, 
which we are striving so hard to uphold.
At this juncture, let me reiterate Romania’s support 
for  the  initiative  of  France  and  Mexico  to  propose 
a  collective  and  voluntary  agreement  among  the 
permanent members of the Security Council regarding 
the non-use of the veto when action is needed to prevent 
or bring to an end situations of mass atrocities and war 
crimes on a large scale. Ten years after the endorsement 
of the responsibility to protect, we should continue to 
support that responsibility by identifying the best ways 
to understand, implement and operationalize it.
The  current  massive  waves  of  migration  are  just 
one of the worrisome consequences of the internal and 
international conflicts in the Middle East and Southern 
Mediterranean region. That phenomenon requires more 
than just responses to the immediate humanitarian needs 
of refugees. The United Nations must also address, in 
a  realistic  and  energetic  manner,  the  root  causes  of 
migration. We should stop the destruction of the social 
fabric of conflict-torn societies, help populations escape 
their extreme poverty, help youth regain their hope for a 
better future, and help individuals rebuild their dignity. 
Through  official  development  assistance  (ODA),  the 
United Nations should play a much stronger role in that 
respect. For that to happen, a thorough reform of ODA 
may probably be needed.
The United Nations should be less lenient in respect 
to the protracted conflicts in the Transnistrian region of 
the  Republic  of  Moldova,  in  Georgia  and  in  Nagorno 
Karabakh.  Where  the  status  quo  is  characterized  by 
conditions  that  are  contrary  to  international  law,  the 
situation will always be fragile and possibly conducive 
to  occasional  outbreaks  of  violence.  In  addition, 
our  non-action  in  such  situations  creates  the  wrong 
impression  that  unlawful  territorial  gains  —  to  the 
detriment  of  independent  and  sovereign  States  —  are 
possible and tolerated. That is the case with the situation 
in  Ukraine,  in  which  the  United  Nations,  and  the 
Security  Council  in  particular,  have  not  taken  the 
action expected, as defined by the terms of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  call  upon  all  members  of 
the  Security  Council  to  act  responsibly  and  decide  in 
the interest of international peace and security and in 
accordance with international law, while addressing the 
situation in Ukraine.
Romania wholeheartedly welcomes the agreement 
on  the  Iranian  nuclear  programme.  That  agreement 
proves that nothing is impossible, if there is a genuine 
political will and there are visionary statesmen engaged 
in  bold  action.  We  also  praise  the  role  so  ably  and 
diligently played in that connection by the International 
Atomic Energy Agency. The agreement with regard to 
that long-standing problem proves once again the virtues 
of diplomacy and negotiations undertaken in good faith 
and  with  patience,  with  the  support  of  the  expertise 
developed within the United Nations system. We hope 
to see more, ancillary benefits of that agreement in the 
broader context of the Middle East peace process. 
I would like to call upon all States Members of the 
United Nations not to miss the opportunity to conclude 
18/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
a  new  and  ambitious  binding  agreement  in  response 
to  climate  change.  The  moment  is  still  auspicious,  in 
view  of  the  commitments  of  the  European  Union,  as 
well as the massive activism on the part of civil society. 
The example of the European Union is expected to be 
followed by other major contributors to global warming. 
People everywhere and, in particular, those in the small 
island  countries,  whose  very  physical  existence  is 
threatened,  are  waiting  for  new  commitments,  before 
it is too late.
Beyond the thematic and geographical configuration
of  United  Nations  diplomacy,  we  believe  that  the 
nuts  and  bolts  of  our  Organization  can  be  found  in 
the  codification  and  progressive  development  of 
international  law.  Romania  believes  that  international 
law and international justice are fundamental values for 
humankind.  We  should  never  cease  to  act  to  promote 
the reaffirmation and consolidation of the principles of 
international  law,  which  represent  a  landmark  of  our 
society of nations for all time. 
The  sixtieth  anniversary  of  Romania’s  admission 
to the United Nations is being marked as an important 
step  concerning  our  commitment  to  international 
justice.  Romania  became  the  seventy-second  Member 
State  to  accept  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  Our  declaration, 
submitted  to  the  Secretary-General  on  23  June,  is  a 
continuation of the interwar tradition of my country to 
conduct  its  international  relations  in  full  compliance 
with international law. 
strengthened 
to 
legal  approach 
The  consolidation  of  international  justice  and 
the  need  to  put  an  end  to  impunity  should  trigger 
a 
international 
terrorism.  Terrorism  represents  the  worst  in  crimes 
against  individuals  and  societies.  Romania  believes 
that  the  international  community  should  do  more  to 
combat  terrorism  with  the  tools  of  the  law,  including 
international criminal law. It is with that purpose in mind 
that Romania and Spain have set in motion a process of 
reflection  on  the  possible  creation  of  an  international 
court for the crime of terrorism. We are fully aware of 
the conceptual and operational difficulties of such an 
undertaking. However, the values that stand behind that 
reflection,  which  are  aimed  at  strengthening  the  rule 
of law in our multilateral antiterrorist drive, are likely 
to  generate  fresh  ideas  for  innovative  legal  tools.  We 
believe that that reflection process is worthwhile in its 
own right, as it will fuel the debate on reinforcing the 
values of justice and international law. I would like to 
take this opportunity to invite all interested delegations 
to  engage  in  good-faith  discussions  about  how  to 
implement those values in the fight against terrorism.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of Romania for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Klaus Werner Iohannis, President of Romania, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by King Mswati III, Head of State of the 
Kingdom of Swaziland
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of 
State of the Kingdom of Swaziland.
King Mswati III, Head of State of the Kingdom of 
Swaziland, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Majesty  King 
Mswati III, Head of State of the Kingdom of Swaziland, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
King Mswati III: It is a great pleasure for me to 
address the General Assembly of the United Nations as 
we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  our  global 
Organization.  It  is  important,  at  this  time,  that  we 
revisit  the  founding  objectives  of  the  United  Nations 
to determine whether we have been able to live up to 
what they have required of us since its establishment. 
Primarily,  the  United  Nations  was  set  up  to  promote 
peace  and  stability  among  humankind  and  to  assist 
nations  to  develop  socially  and  economically,  to 
mention  but  a  few  of  the  founding  objectives.  This 
annual session gives us an opportunity to review and 
recommit  ourselves  to  the  objectives  laid  out  by  our 
predecessors.
Tremendous progress has been made on a number 
of  social  fronts,  while  growth  in  the  economies  and 
the  development  of  nations  is  evident.  However,  that 
success has come with its own challenges that need to 
be addressed in a spirit of global cooperation in order 
to  achieve  the  ultimate  goal  of  peaceful  progress  and 
development  that  leaves  nobody  behind.  We  urge  the 
United Nations to continue to play its role in fostering 
a collective approach to overcoming all impediments.
15-29431
19/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
The  capabilities  and  successes  of  the  United 
Nations are well documented. We have seen the United 
Nations play a significant role in resolving conflicts on 
the African continent and in other parts of the world. 
The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  curbing  the  Ebola 
outbreak is appreciated. While we have not eradicated 
the disease completely, we applaud the Organization’s 
tremendous efforts to stem its spread. We also commend 
the United Nations for launching such initiatives as the 
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, 
which has played a significant role in combating those 
diseases. We appeal to the United Nations to continue 
helping  Africa  emerge  from  the  cycle  of  poverty  and 
disease as the continent seeks to fulfil its Agenda 2063, 
which seeks to eradicate poverty and create prosperity 
for all.
Africa  has  great  potential  for  investment.  What 
remains  is  to  create  the  requisite  environment  for 
economic growth. We strongly believe that the United 
Nations system can establish a peaceful global village 
free of fear and violence. We adopted the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  aiming  to  emancipate 
humankind  from  poverty  and  hunger  by  creating 
prosperity  in  a  safe  and  peaceful  environment  that 
offers  acceptable  basic  living  standards  (resolution 
55/2). We are pleased to observe that our decision has, 
by and large, yielded positive outcomes that live up to 
the founding principles of the United Nations.
The  impressive  progress  witnessed  during  the 
implementation of the MDGs makes us confident that 
the  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1)  will  enjoy  even  greater  success. 
We  have  good  reason  to  anticipate  a  sustainable 
transformation of nations over the next 15 years. Our 
presence here should signify a renewed commitment to 
our resolve.
The Kingdom of eSwatini is one of many nations 
to  report  significant  progress  in  the  implementation 
of  the  MDGs.  That  progress  has  been  guided  by 
a  people-driven  road  map  leading  us  towards  our 
Swaziland Vision 2022, which is designed to propel the 
Kingdom to become a developed country, a development 
State. We are very much aware of the challenges that 
lie ahead on the journey, but I have full confidence in 
the capabilities of our people. They have worked very 
hard over the years to bring us to where we are today. 
Although  we  may  not  have  an  abundance  of  natural 
resources,  we  do  have  an  innovative  and  educated 
workforce that is united in a common purpose.
With  Africa  opening  up  new  trade  markets  and 
investment  opportunities,  the  Kingdom  of  eSwatini 
has  fast-tracked  reforms  that  have  yielded  improved 
ease of doing business. Infrastructure development has 
also improved direct access to global markets through 
the completion of our new international airport, while 
providing  multiple  investment  opportunities  in  its 
immediate  surroundings.  We  believe  that  the  airport 
will  give  rise  to  downstream  projects  that  can  create 
employment opportunities and add the required impetus 
to our economic growth.
Access to markets of the developed world remains 
critical for Africa, which is well endowed with mineral 
resources  yet  still  faces  the  challenges  of  poverty, 
hunger and unemployment. The support of the United 
Nations is essential if we are to successfully deal with 
the  mammoth  task  of  developing  infrastructure  so 
that  we  can  add  value  to  our  natural  resources.  The 
success of trade and investment also hinges heavily on 
a reliable and sustainable supply of energy. As a result, 
we now have a comprehensive strategy and programme 
of action that outline the gaps that need to be addressed 
by all players in the energy sector. They present viable 
opportunities for investment in that sector, particularly 
in renewable energy.
to  make  youth  empowerment  central 
As  we  envisage  a  world  free  of  poverty,  hunger, 
disease and want, where all life can thrive, it becomes 
critical 
to 
achieving that goal. Attaining a 97 per cent enrolment 
rate  in  primary  education  is  a  significant  milestone 
for our country as we seek to ensure education for all. 
Sustainable education requires that that high enrolment 
should  be  complemented  by  quality  education  that  is 
further accessible at the secondary, higher and tertiary 
levels.
We remain challenged in meeting that requirement, 
and we call upon our global friends to partner with us 
to  ensure  that  we  do  not  become  victims  of  our  own 
success. We are recognizing and rewarding outstanding 
educational talent through entrepreneurial development 
initiatives at the secondary and tertiary levels. We trust 
that those initiatives, among many others, will produce 
a future generation that is equipped with the life skills 
needed  to  provide  solutions  to  the  socioeconomic 
challenges facing many of our unemployed youth today. 
The Kingdom is also developing innovation parks that 
will provide our young people with the creative skills 
needed to enable them to contribute to the sustainable 
development of the country.
20/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
The HIV/AIDS pandemic, which has stretched our 
health resources to the limit, remains a challenge that 
requires  our  collective  effort.  As  a  nation,  we  have 
taken  a  decision  that  we  want  to  become  one  of  the 
first African countries with a generalized epidemic to 
achieve  an  AIDS-free  generation  in  2022  —  a  vision 
that is in line with the global agenda to end AIDS by 
2030.
The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  still  largely  relies  on 
agriculture  as  a  means  to  sustain  itself  and  prosper. 
Programmes  aimed  at  increasing  food  production, 
ending  hunger  and  improving  nutrition  have  been 
developed. A farm input-subsidy programme aimed at 
increasing  yields  through  the  availability  of  tractors, 
seeds  and  fertilizer  is  now  in  place.  The  country  has 
also invested heavily in building dams to harness water, 
and we hope that friends of the Kingdom will continue 
to partner with us in building more such facilities. The 
dams are helping many of our people to irrigate their 
crops. We look to international financial institutions to 
support those initiatives. We are concerned, however, 
that some of that support attaches stringent conditions 
with  consequences  that  leave  the  recipient  countries 
worse off. We therefore appeal to the United Nations to 
address that phenomenon, which seriously undermines 
the objectives of the 2030 Agenda.
We  are  very  aware  that,  working  alone,  we  are 
limited  in  our  success.  It  is,  therefore,  important 
that  the  developed  countries  of  the  world  support  the 
growth  of  developing  nations  like  ours.  We  appeal  to 
donor  countries  to  increase  their  funding  to  smaller 
nations  so  that  they  can  strengthen  their  capacity  to 
create jobs and address existing social challenges. Only 
when our communities achieve better living conditions 
will developing countries enjoy the peace and stability 
that provides the requisite environment for sustainable 
growth.
The  effects  of  climate  change  have  not  gone 
unnoticed, nor have they left us unharmed. Sustainable 
Development Goal 11 calls for urgent action to combat 
climate  change  and  its  impacts.  We  continue  to  urge 
our developed partners not only to fulfil their pledges 
to  the  Green  Fund  but  also  to  adopt  policies  that 
strike the correct balance among the requirements for 
the  production  of  essential  products,  profits  and  the 
sustainability of our environment. Anything less would 
seriously  jeopardize  the  ideals  of  the  2030  Agenda. 
We  look  forward  to  a  legally  binding  global  climate 
agreement  at  the  United  Nations  Climate  Change 
Conference in France later this year.
The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  continues  to  enjoy  the 
peace and stability that all people on the globe deserve. 
The  secret  to  our  success  has  been  consultation  and 
dialogue aimed at building consensus, which is a model 
of  peace  that  has  a  place  in  the  implementation  of 
United Nations operations. It is apparent that military 
intervention  in  resolving  conflict  has  a  short-term 
effect  that  leaves  the  people  that  it  is  meant  to  serve 
worse off. Only a peaceful solution to conflict can yield 
sustainable  conclusions  to  the  current  crises  facing 
various  parts  of  the  world  today.  That  calls  for  us  to 
unite and to bring the warring parties to the table for 
dialogue.
However,  for  that  to  be  truly  effective,  we  need 
the  United  Nations  to  ensure  that  any  intervention  is 
undertaken by a united body. If the United Nations is 
divided  on  the  mandates  that  it  creates  to  deal  with 
challenges that require a collective approach, it runs the 
risk of worsening the problems. It is critical that, when 
the Members of the United Nations are confronted with 
conflict situations, they resolve them with one voice.
The protracted war in Syria remains a huge challenge 
for  the  United  Nations.  One  of  its  consequences  has 
been  the  serious  refugee  crisis  that  we  have  today, 
affecting  neighbouring  countries  and,  most  recently, 
various European States. We applaud all the countries 
that have accepted the refugees and provided them with 
food and shelter, and we appeal to the Syrian people to 
come  together  to  find  a  peaceful  and  lasting  solution 
to their differences. There can be only one solution to 
that predicament, which is to resolve the source of the 
conflict  so  that  all  of  the  people  of  Syria  are  able  to 
benefit  from  the  peace  they  deserve.  It  is  imperative 
that the objectives of the United Nations be met. One 
important aim of the United Nations is to work to rid 
society of all hostilities. We have put conflict-resolution 
mechanisms in place, and it is our duty to ensure that 
they are implemented effectively.
We trust that, as we proceed with the 2030 Agenda, 
we  will  fully  embrace  an  all-inclusive  approach. 
We  therefore  urge  the  United  Nations  to  give  every 
country  in  the  world  the  opportunity  to  contribute  to 
the  global  community  in  whatever  form  and  capacity 
it can. In that regard, we appeal to the United Nations 
to consider admitting the Republic of China on Taiwan 
to  membership.  Like  every  other  country,  it  has  the 
15-29431
21/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
potential to contribute positively to the global agenda, 
in its case in such areas as health care and information 
and communications technology, to mention only a few.
The inclusiveness espoused by the United Nations 
should encompass representation in the key bodies of 
the  Organization.  The  African  continent  continues  to 
appeal  for  a  permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council 
through  which  its  voice  will  be  fully  represented,  as 
outlined in the Ezulwini Consensus. We trust that the 
matter will receive the attention it deserves.
Finally,  I  would  like  once  again  to  extend  my 
heartiest  congratulations  to  the  entire  United  Nations 
family for its attainment of 70 years of togetherness. We 
wish to commend all United Nations agencies for their 
sustained efforts to fulfil the ideals of the Organization, 
which have benefited humankind in many ways. Let us 
renew our commitment to the objectives of our global 
Organization. We have grown in numbers, and that has 
given rise to new paradigms. We are certain that, with 
the correct mindset, that will be addressed accordingly. 
However,  it  is  important  to  realize  that,  as  much  as 
our goals may be universal, we do not share the same 
capabilities and capacities for implementing them. May 
Almighty God bless us all.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Head  of  State  of  the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  for  the 
statement he has just made.
His  Majesty  King  Mswati  III,  Head  of  State  of 
the Kingdom of Swaziland, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President of 
the Republic of Sierra Leone
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Sierra Leone.
Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President of the Republic 
of  Sierra  Leone,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ernest  Bai 
Koroma, President of the Republic of Sierra Leone, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Koroma:  I  would  like  to  warmly 
congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  to  conduct 
the  affairs  of  the  Assembly  at  its  historic  seventieth 
session.  I  can  assure  him  of  my  personal  support 
and  that  of  Sierra  Leone  during  his  tenure.  I  would 
also  like  to  convey  my  sincere  appreciation  to  his 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  of  the 
Republic of Uganda, for the effective way in which he 
led the previous session. And I heartily commend the 
Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, 
for  his  constructive  leadership  of  our  Organization. 
Sierra  Leone  will  continue  to  support  progressive 
implementation  of  his 
laudable  Five-Year  Action 
Agenda,  announced  on  25  January  2012.  We  also 
welcome  his  synthesizing  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization (A/70/1), which articulates a call to action 
to transform our world beyond 2015.
Seventy  years  ago,  we  committed  to  promoting 
social  progress  and  better  standards  of  life  in  larger 
freedom.  Today,  that  is  still  our  task  and  common 
goal,  and  the  very  foundation  in  which  our  shared 
and  common  values  are  firmly  embedded  and  should 
therefore be respected. It is in the pursuit of that task 
and our shared values that, 15 years ago, the Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  articulated  a  bold  vision 
to eradicate extreme poverty, promote gender equality 
and  ensure  that  children  everywhere  receive  a  basic 
education.  Together,  we  have  achieved  a  lot,  getting 
millions  out  of  poverty,  getting  millions  into  schools 
and breaking down many barriers to the empowerment 
of women. But our achievements are works in progress, 
as is our Organization. Many challenges still remain.
Many actions need to be taken in the offices of our 
Organization,  and  many  actions  must  be  taken  in  the 
field  where  the  citizens  of  the  world  lead  their  lives. 
The  two  are  interlinked.  Without  changes  within  the 
structures of our global Organization, our actions in the 
field  will  be  hindered  by  the  lack  of  ownership,  lack 
of  inclusion  and  lack  of  irreversible  successes.  That 
is  why  we  commend  the  President  for  the  choice  and 
relevance  of  the  theme  of  this  session:  “The  United 
Nations at 70 — a new commitment to action”. We have 
put  forward  negotiating  positions  for  reform  in  our 
Organization,  we  have  drawn  up  plans  for  achieving 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs),  and  we 
adopted  the  financing  for  development  framework  in 
Addis Ababa in July. What is left now for us to do is 
to take action on all these fronts: to continue action to 
reform our Organization, to commence action in areas 
22/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
where there has not yet been action, to take action to 
overcome challenges, and to follow through on action 
to sustain, deepen and expand our achievements.
The  unfinished  business  of 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  its  accompanying  challenges 
are  critical  to  the  work  that  lies  ahead.  We  have 
learned lessons that are invaluable, and we have made 
undeniable  progress.  But  the  challenges  we  still  face 
are seen in the millions not going to school, the millions 
not having health care, the millions of women who are 
oppressed, and the millions of people whose rights and 
lives are being trampled upon in the war zones and on 
the refugee routes of the world. The challenges have the 
urgency of a life-and-death situation for millions.
What we see the world over — in the refugee crisis, 
in  the  fight  against  poverty,  transnational  organized 
crime,  terrorism,  proliferation  of  small  arms  and 
light weapons, piracy, violence against women, in our 
actions to uphold human rights, and in the efforts for 
expanding access to health and education — what we 
see  are  struggles  to  promote  inclusion  in  the  better 
achievements  of  humankind:  achievements  in  the 
areas  of  security,  safety,  peace,  education,  health  and 
development.  Where  there  is  exclusion,  people  seek 
inclusion. The poor seek inclusion in a fairer world, and 
refugees seek inclusion in a safer world. We believe that 
the SDGs are about building a fairer, safer and better 
world for those excluded from the great achievements 
of humankind.
Making our global Organization more democratic, 
more participatory and fairer is part of the struggle for 
inclusion the world over. It is a prerequisite for achieving 
our  universal  aspirations  as  expressed  in  the  2030 
Sustainable Development Agenda (resolution 70/1). As 
the Coordinator of the African Union Committee of Ten 
Heads of State and Government on the Reform of the 
United Nations Security Council, I take this opportunity 
to emphasize once again the need for urgent reform of 
the Council and again echo Africa’s concern over the 
failure of the General Assembly to adopt measures that 
will  lead  to  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council.
I wish to call attention to the regrettable status quo 
that  undermines  the  principles  of  equity,  legitimacy, 
accountability  and  transparency.  The  current  state 
of  affairs  also  undermines  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Security  Council  in  its  pursuit  of  international  peace 
and security. The need to address the issue of Africa’s 
non-representation  in  the  permanent  category  and  its 
underrepresentation  in  the  non-permanent  category  is 
long  overdue  and  therefore  now  imperative.  Africa’s 
demand  for  two  permanent  seats  and  two  additional 
non-permanent  seats  as  articulated  in  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration  is  just  and 
provides  a  framework  for  a  fairer  and  more  inclusive 
United  Nations.  I  welcome  the  recent  adoption  of 
resolution  69/321,  designed,  inter  alia,  to  further  the 
intergovernmental negotiation process, and I very much 
hope  that  meaningful  progress  will  be  made  towards 
a consensus-building mechanism in the course of this 
seventieth session.
Sierra  Leone  is  very  committed  to  promoting 
inclusion  in  governance  and  in  development  and  to 
furthering peace around the world. We shall continue 
to support initiatives to sustain and expand democracy, 
peace and security, in Africa in particular, and in the 
world  at  large.  The  contribution  of  Sierra  Leone  to 
United Nations peacekeeping efforts demonstrates our 
strong  commitment  to  global  peace  and  stability.  We 
acknowledge the report of the High-level Independent 
Panel on Peace Operations on uniting our strengths for 
peace:  politics,  partnership  and  people  (A/70/95).  We 
stand ready to explore further ways of increasing our 
contribution to global peacekeeping in order to enhance 
the success of United Nations peacekeeping operations. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  a  special  tribute  to  the 
men and women in uniform, as well as to civilian staff, 
who  continue  to  make  the  ultimate  sacrifice  to  serve 
humankind  in  complex  and  dangerous  environments 
around the world. We totally condemn attacks against 
United  Nations  peacekeepers,  and  we  call  for  action 
against the perpetrators of these cowardly acts.
The  report  of  the  Advisory  Group  of  Experts  for 
the 2015 Review of the United Nations Peacebuilding 
Architecture  and  its  recommendations  is  a  useful 
document  that  informs  us  of  lessons  learned,  best 
practices and the challenges ahead in terms of preventing 
relapses  into  violent  conflict.  We  look  forward  to 
constructive  engagement  in  the  intergovernmental 
process in the light of the fact that Sierra Leone is one 
of the case studies and a storehouse of lessons learned.
We  applaud  our  collective  establishment  of  the 
Residual Special Court for Sierra Leone for the purpose 
of carrying out the continuing legal obligations of the 
original  Special  Court.  Given  the  profile  of  persons 
convicted  by  the  Court  and  those  currently  serving 
prison sentences under the supervision of the Residual 
15-29431
23/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
Court,  it  is  in  the  interest  of  international  peace  and 
security  and  in  furtherance  of  justice  that  we  extend 
support to the effective operations of the Residual Court 
in order to enable it to fully deliver on its mandate.
Whether  it  be  terrorism,  climate  change,  disease 
or refugees, no country is immune from the challenges 
facing the world at large. Some countries may be able 
to  keep  some  of  these  problems  from  reaching  their 
shores.  However,  our  globalized  world  has  multiplied 
the  routes  along  which  these  challenges  move,  going 
from  country  to  country,  from  one  region  to  another, 
from  one  group  of  people  to  another.  That  is  why  we 
cannot  say  a  particular  problem  is  only  a  problem 
for  this  country  or  that  region.  Poorer  countries 
suffer  disproportionately  from  particular  problems 
but,  without  support  from  the  world  to  solve  them, 
the  problems  spread  and  haunt  other  regions,  other 
countries and other groups. We need to incorporate that 
piece of wisdom into decision-making in every country, 
every region and every global organization.
That  is  also  the  piece  of  wisdom  we  need  to 
incorporate  into  our  decisions  about  climate  change. 
Changes in the weather patterns in the Pacific and in 
the ocean currents of the North Atlantic are unleashing 
devastating  floods  in  many  places.  A  week  and  a 
half  ago,  we  witnessed  floods  of  proportions  hitherto 
unseen in Sierra Leone, which devastated many parts 
of our capital, Freetown. Storms rage in the Cape Verde 
Islands  and  floods  have  ravaged  other  parts  of  West 
Africa. We believe that our experts are right when they 
attribute those disasters to man-made climate change.
We  call  for  action,  not  only  to  lower  emissions 
of  greenhouse  gases,  which  are  implicated  in  those 
changes, but also to shore up capabilities to deal with 
the  effects  of  climate  change.  No  country,  I  reiterate, 
is  immune  from  the  physical,  social,  health  and 
other  consequences  of  climate  change.  We  need  to 
integrate  that  insight  into  our  decisions  about  other 
urgent  matters  —  youth  unemployment,  insecurity, 
extreme hunger, violence against women, transnational 
organized crime and piracy. Allowing these to get out of 
control in vulnerable nations increases the vulnerability 
of all nations.
Africa  has  made  efforts 
the 
continent’s  capacity  for  preventing  and  resolving 
conflicts. Countries in the global South have also been 
at the forefront of finding solutions and providing relief 
from the miseries of the world. They host more refugees 
to  strengthen 
than  other  lands;  they  contribute  more  personnel  to 
peacekeeping missions. Global solidarity is imperative 
in building our regional capacity to better handle those 
challenges. Without that solidarity, the challenges will 
jump  across  borders,  evade  immigration  controls  and 
leap over walls. That is why we need cooperative and 
coordinated  partnerships  to  strengthen  the  capacities 
to  respond  to  those  challenges.  Our  voice,  as  fragile 
and conflict-affected States under the Group of Seven 
Plus,  is  a  call  for  country  ownership  and  country-led 
implementation of the SDGs.
Since  2012,  Sierra  Leone  has  been  proactively 
tailoring  its  development  framework  in  anticipation 
of  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1). The implementation of 
our  national  vision  for  socioeconomic  development, 
as  contained  in  the  Government’s  poverty  reduction 
strategy  paper  and  articulated  in  the  Agenda  for 
Prosperity, was launched in July 2013 as Sierra Leone’s 
road  map  for  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  The 
Agenda  for  Prosperity  aims  to  build  a  sustainable 
future for all Sierra Leoneans. It demonstrates our firm 
commitment  to  putting  Sierra  Leone  on  the  path  to 
resilience and sustainability.
To that end, we have recorded significant progress 
in  strengthening  political  and  economic  governance, 
including  the  improvement  of  social  indicators.  My 
Government  has  continued  to  place  emphasis  on  the 
protection  of  the  basic  rights  of  the  people  of  Sierra 
Leone.  We  have  put  in  place  comprehensive  reforms 
in  the  justice  sector,  in  response  to  both  national  and 
global  demands,  to  ensure  that  the  rights  of  citizens 
are  preserved  and  that  access  to  justice  is  accorded 
to  all.  The  Human  Rights  Commission  of  Sierra 
Leone  is  closely  collaborating  with  the  Government 
to ensure that a human rights culture is entrenched in 
our  society  and  that  the  Government  ratifies  several 
international  treaties  and  protocols  whose  ratification 
is  still  outstanding  and  fulfils  its  various  reporting 
obligations.
the  national 
We  have  undertaken  specific  reform  measures 
to 
improve 
investment  climate.  My 
Government  is  keen  on  delivering  results  in  several 
priority  areas,  including  infrastructure  development, 
commercial agriculture, improved access to education 
and  health-care  services,  youth  empowerment  and 
employment,  women’s  empowerment,  effective  and 
efficient  public  service  delivery  and  the  social  and 
political integration of persons with disabilities.
24/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
At a time when Sierra Leone was being commended 
for  its  remarkable  progress  with  respect  to  peace, 
stability and steady economic growth, we were hit by 
the  unprecedented  Ebola  virus  outbreak,  which  took 
a  heavy  toll  on  the  entire  socioeconomic  fabric  of 
Sierra Leone. However, we fought back, with support 
from  our  international  friends,  and  have  now  almost 
defeated the evil virus, with zero cases being recorded 
for  several  days  in  September.  As  we  make  progress 
to  end  the  epidemic,  I  wish  to  commend  the  United 
Nations  agencies  and  the  international  community 
for  their  support  and  their  commitment  to  ending  the 
epidemic,  as  well  as  their  support  for  the  post-Ebola 
recovery plan.
I  particularly  commend  the  Secretary-General 
for  mobilizing,  for  the  very  first  time,  a  coordinated 
and  integrated  United  Nations  system  intervention  to 
support countries affected by the outbreak of the Ebola 
virus  disease  in  our  region.  In  addition  to  containing 
the epidemic, the intervention of the United Nations and 
our partners has resulted in an enhanced preparedness 
to  respond  to  similar  outbreaks  in  the  future.  That 
is  a  useful  model  that  can  be  applied  to  contain  and 
tackle pandemics wherever they may surface. In order 
to  guarantee  a  lasting  recovery,  my  Government,  in 
collaboration with our sister Republics of Guinea and 
Liberia, have also formulated a subregional post-Ebola 
socioeconomic  recovery  plan  to  ensure  that  the  three 
most  Ebola-affected  countries  return  to  the  path  of 
stability and prosperity.
The Sierra Leone National Recovery Plan is based 
on  two  main  pillars.  The  first  pillar  concentrates  on 
immediate  recovery  activities,  including  maintaining 
zero infections. The second pillar focuses on building 
resilient  and  sustainable  national  systems  ,  including 
a viable health system, and establishing an integrated 
national security and disaster risk management system.
I  must  state,  with  a  considerable  measure  of 
satisfaction, 
international  community’s 
commitment to supporting the Ebola recovery plans has 
been very encouraging. On behalf of the Government and 
the people of Sierra Leone, allow me, Sir, to once again 
applaud our development partners for their unwavering 
commitment of support to Sierra Leone’s development 
aspirations. Sierra Leone is poised and ready to continue 
working  with  the  international  community  to  resume 
its pre-Ebola development trajectory. We look forward 
to  strengthening  our  partnerships  for  the  effective 
that 
the 
implementation of our post-Ebola recovery plans, both 
national and subregional.
In conclusion, as our noble Organization celebrates 
its  seventieth  anniversary  this  year,  it  is  important  to 
reflect on the Charter, which reaffirms 
“faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity 
and worth of the human person, in the equal rights 
of men and women and of nations large or small”. 
With  the  commitment  of  leaving  no  one  behind,  we 
must  objectively  follow  a  pragmatic  approach,  with 
renewed vigour and resolve, to provide a future for our 
people that will guarantee justice, sustainable peace and 
security,  accountability  and  democratic  governance, 
employment  opportunities, 
transparent  and 
equitable distribution of wealth, a safe and sustainable 
environment, improved health and relevant education. 
It is also important to ensure that conflicts are resolved 
around the world, if the Sustainable Development Goals 
are  to  be  achieved,  as  no  development  can  take  place 
without peace.
the 
Together, let us rise to that challenge with greater 
resolve,  and  take  action  to  create  a  fairer,  safer  and 
better world.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Sierra Leone for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President of the Republic 
of  Sierra  Leone,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Petro Poroshenko, 
President of Ukraine
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
Ukraine.
Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Petro 
Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, and to invite him to 
address the General Assembly. 
President  Poroshenko:  On  behalf  of  Ukraine,  I 
sincerely  congratulate  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  on  his 
15-29431
25/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventieth session, and wish him every success in his 
activities  at  this  crucial  historic  moment.  Our  future 
will  largely  depend  on  the  outcomes  of  this  session 
and  our  collective  decisions  —  whether  we  choose  to 
follow the path of peace, security and human rights, or 
to  plunge  into  the  turmoil  of  new  hybrid  wars,  chaos 
and suffering.
On the ocasion of this seventieth anniversary, I am 
proud to speak on behalf of one of the founding members 
of the United Nations, a State that, back in 1945, took an 
active part in the San Francisco Conference, helped to 
establish the Organization and lay down the foundation 
for its activities, a State whose contribution back then 
was  of  importance  in  shaping  the  core  of  the  United 
Nations: the Purposes and Principles of its Charter. 
Regrettably, I am also speaking on behalf of a State 
Member  of  the  United  Nations  that  is  now  the  victim 
of  a  brutal  violation  of  the  fundamental  norms  and 
principles  of  that  Charter.  The  statement  by  Ukraine 
upon its joining the United Nations as one of its founding 
Members,  which  was  delivered  at  the  San  Francisco 
Conference,  emphasized  that  Ukraine  had  repeatedly 
been the subject of bloody invasions by aggressors that 
for centuries had sought to capture its territory. 
A  long  time  has  passed  since  that  landmark 
event. But, today, I have to recall that my country has 
become  the  object  of  external  aggression.  This  time, 
the aggressor is the Russian Federation, a neighbouring 
country  and  a  former  strategic  partner,  which  legally 
pledged to respect the sovereignty, territorial integrity, 
independence  and  inviolability  of  the  borders  of 
Ukraine.  That  country  used  to  be  a  guarantor  of 
Ukraine’s  security  under  the  Budapest  Memorandum, 
whereby  security  guarantees  were  provided  to  my 
country  in  exchange  for  the  voluntary  renunciation 
of  the  world’s  third  nuclear  arsenal.  Moreover,  it  is  a 
permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council,  which  is 
entrusted by the Charter of the United Nations with the 
maintenance of international peace and security.
In  February  2014,  Russia  conducted  an  open  and 
unprovoked aggression against my country, occupying 
and  annexing  the  Crimea,  wantonly  and  brutally 
violating international law and shocking the whole world 
community. I am deeply grateful to the delegations of 
the majority of the States Members of our Organization 
for  supporting  resolution  68/262,  entitled  “Territorial 
integrity  of  Ukraine”,  which  condemned  the  illegal 
Russian  annexation  of  the  Crimea.  It  is  regrettable 
that  this  clear  verdict  of  the  international  community 
failed  to  persuade  Russia  to  return  to  the  civilized 
sphere of international law. Moreover, Moscow started 
a new reckless military game — this time, in Ukraine’s 
Donbas region.
Despite  the  fact  that  Russia  is  still  refusing  to 
officially acknowledge its direct military invasion, there 
can be no doubt that an aggressive war is being waged 
against my country. To mislead the world community, 
the  Russian  leadership  orders  its  military  servicemen 
to remove their insignias and the identification marks 
on  military  equipment.  It  orders  the  abandonment  of 
its soldiers captured on the battlefield and the cynical 
use  of  mobile  crematoriums  to  eliminate  traces  of  its 
crimes on Ukrainian soil.
I  would  like  to  stress  that  neither  a  civil  war  nor 
an internal conflict is taking place. Russia’s occupation 
of  Ukrainian  territory  in  the  Crimea  and  the  Donbas 
region covers approximately 44,000 square kilometres, 
and millions of Ukrainians are under that occupation. 
The goal of the current war is to force the Ukrainian 
people  to  give  up  their  sovereign  choice  to  build  a 
free,  democratic,  prosperous  and  European  State.  All 
that  is  taking  place  against  a  backdrop  of  traitorous 
rhetoric  about  brotherly  peoples,  sharing  a  common 
history,  related  languages  and  a  predestined  common 
future. In actual fact, we are dealing here with a desire 
to return to imperial times, with spheres of influence, 
and  a  desperate  attempt  to  obtain  self-affirmation  at 
another’s expense. 
For  over  20  months,  the  aggression  against  my 
country  has  been  fuelled  by  Russia’s  financing  of 
terrorists and mercenaries and its supplying of arms and 
military equipment to illegal armed groups in Donbas. 
Over  the  past  few  days,  we  have  heard  a  conciliatory 
statement  from  the  Russian  side,  including  a  call  for 
the  establishment  of  an  anti-terrorist  coalition  and  a 
warning  that  fraternizing  with  terrorists  would  pour 
oil on the flames. That was an impressive but hard-to-
believe story.
How can a country call for an anti-terrorist coalition 
when it is inspiring terrorism so close to home? How 
can it talk about peace and legitimacy, if its policy is 
to wage war through puppet governments? How can it 
speak of national autonomy, if it punishes a neighbour 
for making a choice? How can it demand respect for all, 
if  it  respects  no  one?  The  Gospel  of  St.  John  teaches 
26/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
us that in the beginning there was the word; but what 
kind of Gospel is one following if all one’s words are 
so duplicitous?
Let us return to the situation in Donbas, where, I 
have  to  say,  we  are  being  forced  to  fight  fully  armed 
troops belonging to regular units of the Russian armed 
forces.  Heavy  weaponry  and  military  equipment  are 
concentrated  in  the  occupied  territories  in  quantities 
such  as  the  armies  of  the  majority  of  Member  States 
can  only  dream  about.  In  particular,  various  pieces 
of  state-of-the-art  military  equipment 
that  were 
manufactured  in  Russia  are  to  be  found  among  that 
same  weaponry  and,  contrary  to  the  public  assertion 
of  the  Russian  President,  are  unlikely  to  be  available 
for  sale  in  a  regular  wholesale  army  store,  unless,  of 
course,  it  was  located  in  the  Russian  Federation  and 
provided free shipping. 
During 
the  period 
in  question,  over  8,000 
Ukrainians, of whom 6,000 were civilians, died at the 
hands of the Russian-backed terrorists and occupiers in 
Ukraine  and  Donbas.  More  than  1.5  million  residents 
of Donbas were forced to flee their homes and, moving 
to  safer  regions  within  Ukraine,  became  internally 
displaced persons. I would like to take this opportunity 
to express my gratitude to the international community 
for  making  such  a  considerable  effort  to  provide 
assistance to those in need. 
At the same time, I call on the United Nations and 
other  international  actors  to  continue  to  pay  special 
attention to that very important issue. I would like to 
draw  everyone’s  attention  to  the  fact  that  this  is  not 
the first time that the same permanent member of the 
Security Council is undermining peace and security at 
both the regional and the international level. 
Over the past 24 years, ever since the questionable 
transfer  of  permanent  membership  on  the  Security 
Council from the former Soviet Union to the Russian 
Federation, the conflict in Ukraine is but one of several 
hybrid wars that Russia has unleashed. In fact, in order 
to  preserve  its  influence  in  neighbouring  countries, 
Russia,  for  decades,  has  deliberately  created,  and 
surrounded  itself  with,  a  belt  of  instability,  made  up 
of  Nagorno  Karabakh,  Transnistria,  Abkhazia,  South 
Ossetia,  Crimea  and  Donbas  —  all  regions  involving 
protracted conflicts and supported by or directly related 
to  Russia.  But  the  Kremlin  has  gone  even  further. 
Today, the Russian men in green are treading on Syrian 
land. What and who are next? 
In  every  democratic  country,  if  one  party  steals 
another party’s property, an independent court restores 
justice by enforcing the rights of the aggrieved party and 
punishing the offender. Yet, here we are in the twenty-
first  century  and  our  Organization  is  still  without  an 
effective  instrument  to  bring  an  aggressor  country 
to  justice,  a  country  which  has  stolen  the  territory  of 
another sovereign State. Seventy years ago, the authors 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  envisaged  that 
sanctions  imposed  by  the  Security  Council  would  be 
one of the punishments applied in response to breaches 
of peace and acts of aggression. 
However, they would have been hard put to imagine 
a  situation  in  which  that  punishment  needs  to  be 
applied against an aggressor State that is a permanent 
member of the Security Council. Since the beginning 
of  the  aggression,  Russia  has  used  its  right  of  veto 
twice  during  the  Council’s  consideration  of  questions 
related  to  Ukraine.  At  the  outset,  Russia  blocked  a 
draft resolution (S/2014/189) that condemned the fake 
referendum  on  Crimea’s  annexation  in  March  2014. 
At  that  very  moment,  in  my  capacity  as  a  Ukrainian 
member of Parliament, I was there when the Russians 
said that there was a vote on this same fake referendum. 
No member of Parliament was present. On the contrary, 
there  were  only  Russian  soldiers  surrounding  the 
Parliament of Crimea. 
The second time that Russia used its right of veto 
was to block a draft resolution (S/2015/562) that would 
have established an international tribunal to investigate 
and bring to justice all those responsible for the crash 
of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH-17. By its disgraceful 
use of the veto on that draft resolution, Russia clearly 
demonstrated  to  the  whole  world  its  defiance  and  its 
unwillingness to establish the truth — not just the truth 
about  the  perpetrators  of  that  terrorist  attack  and  the 
arms that were used to shot down that plane, but, more 
important,  the  truth  concerning  those  who  organized 
that crime and the country from which those arms had 
been  transported.  I  think  that  everyone  in  this  Hall 
clearly understands the real motives of Russia’s use of 
the veto on a draft resolution concerning a tribunal to 
investigate Flight MH-17. Moreover, a draft resolution 
on the establishment of an international peacekeeping 
operation, whose purpose would have been to stabilize 
the  situation  in  Ukraine  and  stop  the  bloodshed,  was 
also blocked because of the potential threat of Russia’s 
use of the veto. 
15-29431
27/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
Abuse  of  the  right  of  veto  —  its  use  as  a  licence 
to  kill  —  is  absolutely  unacceptable  (see  S/PV.7384). 
The  Organization  should  make  its  collective  voice 
heard  clearly  on  this  subject.  For  its  part,  Ukraine 
stands  for  the  gradual  limitation  of  the  right  of  veto, 
with its eventual abolition. The right of veto should not 
exercised  randomly  or  to  grant  a  pardon  or  clemency 
in cases where crimes have been committed and merit 
appropriate punishment. 
In  that  context,  I  welcome  the  proposal  of  my 
French  colleague  and  friend,  President  Hollande, 
supported by President Peña Nieto of Mexico, aimed at 
regulating the use of the veto in cases of mass atrocities. 
Primary attention should be given to the modernization 
of the Security Council, including the enlargement of 
its  membership  and  the  improvement  of  its  working 
methods.  The  membership  of  the  Security  Council 
should  reflect  the  realities  of  the  twenty-first  century 
and  include  a  higher  number  of  African,  Asian  and 
Latin  American  States.  An  additional  non-permanent 
seat  on  the  Council  should  be  given  to  the  Eastern 
European Group, as its membership has doubled over 
the past two decades. 
improvement  of 
Ukraine  also  considers 
the 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  architecture  of  the 
Organization  an  important  element  of  United  Nations 
reform. I am proud of Ukraine’s international reputation 
as an active and devoted contributor to United Nations 
peacekeeping operations. Despite external challenges, 
we remain a reliable partner of the Organization in that 
noble matter. Ukraine’s contribution to the maintenance 
of international peace and security provides us with the 
moral ground to count on the same assistance from the 
Organization  in  times  of  the  vital  importance  of  that 
issue on the part of my country.
The special peacekeeping mission in Dombas, under 
United  Nations  auspices,  could  become  a  very  useful 
instrument  contributing  to  the  implementation  of  the 
Minsk agreements. Ukraine is committed to following 
the letter and spirit of the Minsk package. We demand 
the  same  approach  from  other  signatories  that  have 
lately resorted to the language of blackmail. Otherwise, 
there  is  no  alternative  to  sanctions,  including  their 
strengthening; and there is no alternative to a peaceful 
resolution of the crisis.
Full  access  to  all  occupied  territories  by  the 
monitors  of 
for  Security  and 
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), withdrawal of Russian 
the  Organization 
military  forces,  military  equipment  and  mercenaries 
from Ukrainian territory and restoration of full control 
by Ukraine over its border with Russia— these must all 
be ensured. Freedom, peace and respect for sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity  —  Ukraine  does  not  demand 
more; however, it will not settle for less.
Unfortunately, today Ukraine is, though not by its 
own free will, one of the areas involved in the fight against 
the terrorist threat. We strongly condemn terrorism in 
all  its  forms  and  manifestations.  The  activities  of  the 
Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, Al-Qaida, Boko 
Haram,  Al-Shabaab  and  others  comprise  a  global 
challenge. The only possible way to address that evil is 
to unite in a common, uncompromising fight against it. 
International  terrorism  has  proved  to  be  more 
flexible than the political will of nations and today has 
taken on new hybrid forms. State and non-State actors 
have become interlinked. The struggle for one’s rights 
has been replaced by ruthless terror. We are convinced 
that  the  need  for  a  universal  international  instrument 
able  to  counteract  that  crime  is  not  only  urgent  but 
long  overdue.  For  that  reason,  the  conclusion  of  the 
preparatory work on the draft United Nations convention 
on  the  prevention  and  combating  of  terrorism  should 
become a top priority of the General Assembly at this 
session.
A  special  role  in  the  fight  against  international 
terrorism  should  be  given  to  the  most  reputable  legal 
institutions:  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  Ensuring  that  those 
institutions have universal jurisdiction is a core element 
in overcoming the impunity of the terrorists themselves 
and  their  patrons  —  those  regimes  whose  national 
policy has become the mass production of terror.
I  strongly  believe  that  one  of  the  most  important 
aspects  of  fighting  terrorism  lies  in  honouring  and 
sharing  the  memories  of  the  victims.  In  that  context, 
I  propose  that,  at  the  current  session,  the  General 
Assembly consider designating an international day to 
commemorate  the  memory  of  the  victims  of  terrorist 
acts.  It  is  my  feeling  that  humiliation,  disregard  of 
people’s will and violation of their fundamental rights 
prompted  Ukrainians  to  leave  their  homes  in  order 
to  protest  in  2013,  which  led  to  the  beginning  of  our 
revolution to uphold our dignity.
Ukraine has paid and continues to pay an extremely 
high price for its freedom and the right to live in a free 
country  —  the  price  of  human  lives.  That  is  why  the 
28/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
Russian  aggression  exposed 
interests of every single individual and the protection of 
people’s rights are at the core of my large-scale reform 
programme, which was launched one year ago. For the 
first time in its 24 years of independence, Ukraine has 
adopted a national human rights strategy. It took into 
account the best international practices from the human 
rights  perspective,  including  the  European  Union’s 
Strategic Framework on Human Rights and Democracy.
the  problem  of 
ensuring human rights in the Crimea and parts of the 
Donetsk  and  Luhansk  regions.  Leading  international 
human  rights  organizations  warned  about  the  radical 
deterioration  of  the  human  rights  situation,  which 
applies  directly  to  Ukrainians  and  Crimean  Tatars  in 
the occupied Crimea. I am referring specifically to the 
practice  of  imposing  Russian  citizenship  in  occupied 
Crimea by the Crimean occupation authorities, as well 
as  the  systematic  persecution,  arrest,  abduction  and 
killing  of  pro-Ukraine  residents  of  the  peninsula  and 
the  complete  elimination  of  the  independent  media. 
Ukraine reaffirms its commitment to the United Nations 
Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples.  By 
all legal means, we will continue to defend the rights 
of  the  Crimean  Tatars  —  the  indigenous  people  of 
Ukraine — and the Ukrainians, who are suffering from 
the  repressive  policies  of  the  occupation  authorities 
in  the  Crimea.  I  believe  that  the  problem  of  blatant 
violation of human rights in Crimea deserves particular 
consideration in the General Assembly. And I hope that 
the decision to address this issue will be taken during 
the current session.
I also feel obliged to mention the names of Nadiya 
Savchenko, Oleg Sentsov, Alexandr Kolchenko, among 
many  other  Ukrainians,  who  are  political  prisoners 
of  the  Kremlin  or  have  been  illegally  detained  and 
sentenced.  For  example,  Oleg  Sentsov,  a  respected 
filmmaker, was sentenced to 23 years in prison solely 
for  being  a  Ukrainian  patriot.  I  call  upon  the  United 
Nations and its Member States to launch a worldwide 
campaign to put pressure on the Russian authorities to 
immediately release all the Ukrainian citizens that they 
are holding hostage. We will be able to achieve our goal 
only if our action is global. Most of all, Ukraine needs 
solidarity  and  assistance,  which  are  truly  powerful 
instruments against aggression and injustice. Ukraine 
will  win  for  sure  because  truth  is  on  our  side.  But 
we will do so much faster if we have the support and 
solidarity of the whole international community. 
is 
the 
that 
The  ongoing  hybrid  war  of  Russia  against 
international 
Ukraine  has  demonstrated 
community 
facing  another  challenge,  which 
requires  the  consolidation  of  our  efforts.  The  full-
scale information war and propaganda campaign have 
become  a  particularly  corrosive  form  of  non-military 
aggression.  Fake  news,  blatant  lies  spread  to  justify 
aggression, propaganda of intolerance and violence are 
phenomena  of  the  same  order,  which  undermine  the 
principle of freedom of expression and poison human 
souls and minds. That is why the task of strengthening 
the  role  of  information  in  the  maintenance  of  peace 
and security is more important than ever. I call on the 
General Assembly to strongly condemn these shameful 
phenomena and to discuss the ways to confront them.
Despite the external challenges that I have referred 
to,  Ukraine  is  fully  committed  to  the  implementation 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  We  are  ready 
to  share  joint  responsibility  for  solving  specific  vital 
problems and priorities of the most vulnerable groups 
of countries, such as the small island developing States. 
As one of the Friends on Climate Change, Ukraine is 
looking forward to reaching consensus on a universal 
agreement  in  the  area  of  climate  change  as  soon  as 
possible.  We  hope  that  this  result  will  be  achieved 
by  Member  States  in  December  in  Paris.  We  have  to 
understand that the price of this issue is the safety of 
future generations and the sustainable development of 
humankind.
technological  disasters 
We  shall  not  be  able  to  achieve  the  sustainable 
Development  Goals  unless  we  are  able  to  prevent 
environmental  and 
from 
happening.  As  a  result  of  the  Russian  aggression, 
Ukraine  faces  another  challenge  —  the  protection  of 
its  environment  in  Donbas.  The  irresponsible  and 
criminal flooding of mines by terrorists has led to the 
poisoning of drinking water, the soil, and the flora and 
fauna in the region. The atmosphere is polluted owing 
to  explosions  and  the  shelling  of  sensitive  industrial 
infrastructure. In fact, we can even speak about the risk 
of environmental disaster. I am convinced that the issue 
of environmental protection during conflict needs the 
special attention of the relevant United Nations body. 
With regard to technological disasters, it is my duty 
to  recall  one  of  the  most  horrific  of  them.  Next  year 
will mark the thirtieth anniversary of the tragedy of the 
Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. I would like to request 
that the President hold a special meeting of the General 
Assembly dedicated to that anniversary in April 2016.
15-29431
29/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
My country’s address on the occasion of joining the 
United Nations included the words,
“Ukraine, with its best human strength and material 
resources,  will  be  able  to  make  a  significant 
contribution  to  maintaining  peace  and  global 
security”. 
Now, 70 years on, I reiterate Ukraine’s unwavering 
commitment  to  exerting  a  further  maximum  effort  to 
save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, 
a commitment enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations.  Our  focus  will  be  on  the  achievement  of 
that  noble  goal  if  we  are  elected  to  a  non-permanent 
membership of the Security Council during 2016-2017.
In  the  capacity  of  member  of  the  Council,  Ukraine 
intends  to  remain  a  reliable  and  consistent  partner, 
guided not by its own, but by the global agenda, and will 
resolutely follow the spirit and letter of the Charter. And 
I am firmly convinced that the Organization will pass 
the extremely complex test with dignity and strengthen 
its role as a guarantor of order, peace and prosperity in 
the world. Let God be with us!
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of Ukraine for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Juan Manuel Santos Calderón, 
President of the Republic of Colombia
The President  (spoke in Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will now hear an address by Mr. Juan Manuel Santos 
Calderón, President of the Republic of Colombia.
Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf of the 
General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the 
United Nations His Excellency Mr. Juan Manuel Santos 
Calderón, President of the Republic of Colombia, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Santos  Calderón  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
would like to thank our Ambassador Maria Emma Mejía 
Vélez for giving me the floor. What a source of great 
pride it is for us that a Colombian woman is presiding 
over  this  meeting  at  this  historic  moment,  when  the 
General Assembly is considering the topic “The United 
Nations  at  70:  the  road  ahead  for  peace,  security  and 
human rights”, which is the road along which Colombia 
is travelling, now more successfully than ever before. 
I am therefore honoured to come to this Assembly 
to  share  some  news  which  is  also  historic.  Today,  I 
proclaim to the entire world that one of the more than 
20 armed conflicts taking place across the globe, which 
are causing so much pain, poverty and suffering, that 
of my country, Colombia, is finally nearing a genuine 
solution.  We  will  put  an  end  to  the  longest  and  most 
recent  armed  conflict  in  the  Western  Hemisphere. 
Achieving peace — in Colombia or in any part of the 
world — is a responsibility that nobody must shirk.
As Pope Francis said so well a few days ago in the 
Congress of the United States of America,
“When  countries  which  have  been  at  odds 
resume  the  path  of  dialogue  —  a  dialogue  which 
may have been interrupted for the most legitimate 
of  reasons  —  new  opportunities  open  up  for  all. 
This  has  required,  and  requires,  courage  and 
daring, which is not the same as irresponsibility.”
In Colombia we have tried to work with the courage, 
the  audacity  and  also  the  sense  of  responsibility  of 
which the Holy Father spoke, and we are beginning to 
see  the  fruits  of  our  efforts.  We  have  had  more  than 
50 years of internal warfare in a country destined for 
progress  and  happiness,  and  we  are  determined  to 
put an end to that conflict. Peace is a difficult goal to 
attain,  but  not  an  impossible  one.  Peace  is  something 
more  than  the  fruit  of  a  political,  social  or  economic 
process. Peace, more than anything, is a great process 
of  collective  cultural  transformation  that  begins  with 
an individual spiritual change, and it requires that all 
individuals  —  each  within  himself  or  herself—  open 
their minds, hearts and souls to reconciliation.
Why do I say that today I come to this Assembly 
with  greater  optimism  than  ever  before?  Well,  it  is 
because less than a week ago in Havana, after almost 
three years of negotiations in which we made progress 
on most of the items on the agreed agenda, we reached 
an agreement on what was perhaps the major obstacle to 
peace. We reached an agreement on the most difficult 
element of any peace process — a system of transitional 
justice  that  ensures  that  there  is  no  impunity  for  the 
most serious crimes committed during the conflict. In 
this agreement, which respects the norms and principles 
of international law and our own Constitution, we put 
the greatest emphasis on the right of victims to justice 
30/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
and  on  truth,  reparations  and  the  non-resumption  of 
the conflict, placing them at the centre of the solution 
to  an  armed  conflict.  And  we  are  reaching  our  goal: 
the  maximum  degree  of  justice  compatible  with  the 
attainment of peace.
It  is  also  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  conflicts 
in  the  world  that  a  Government  and  an  illegal  armed 
group  —  in  a  peace  agreement,  not  as  the  result  of 
something  that  was  imposed  later  on  —  are  creating 
a  system  of  accountability  in  a  domestic  court  for 
international crimes and other serious crimes. We are 
setting a precedent that could serve as a model for other 
armed conflicts in the world. The progress made is so 
important and significant that it has enabled us to take 
two additional steps, which is the best news that I could 
convey to this great forum of nations. We have agreed 
to  a  deadline  for  signing  the  final  agreement  that 
would put an end to our armed conflict. It will be, at 
the very latest, 23 March 2016, in less than six months 
from now. On that date at the very latest, we shall bid 
a final farewell to the last and longest war not just in 
Colombia,  but  in  the  entire  Western  Hemisphere.  In 
addition, we have also agreed that the Fuerzas Armadas 
Revolucionarias  de  Colombia  (FARC)  will  begin  to 
lay down its weapons no later than 60 days following 
the  signing  of  the  final  agreement.  That  means  that 
next  year,  when  I  return  to  this  Assembly,  I  will  do 
so as President of a Colombia that is at peace and has 
achieved reconciliation.
Our  talks  with  the  FARC  guerilla  forces  offer 
a  glimmer  of  hope  in  a  world  overshadowed  by  war, 
violence  and  terrorism.  This  is  also  an  opportunity 
to  thank  the  international  community,  on  behalf  of 
48  million  Colombians,  for  its  support  for  our  peace 
efforts and for its willingness to assist us in the post-
conflict stage. A peaceful Colombia will be a positive 
factor for the world in several distinct but interrelated 
areas,  such  as  combating  climate  change  and  illegal 
drugs, security and eradicating extreme poverty.
Our  country  is  proud  to  be  the  most  biodiverse 
country in the world in relation to its size. However, we 
are also one of the most vulnerable to the effects of climate 
change.  That  is  why  we  insist  on  the  environmental 
dimension  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  At 
the end of my term in office in 2018, I hope to have left 
behind  protected  areas  in  Colombia  of  approximately 
20 million hectares, accounting for almost one-fifth of 
our landmass. We fully support the twenty-first session 
of  the  Conference  of  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is to 
be held at the end of this year in Paris, where we will 
commit to assisting in the goal of reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions.
We are also addressing the problem of illegal drug 
crops  with  a  comprehensive  strategy  that  we  have 
proposed  to  the  rest  of  the  world.  At  the  Summit  of 
the  Americas,  held  in  Cartagena,  Colombia,  in  2012, 
I  raised  the  need  for  an  objective  assessment  of  the 
outcome  of  the  so-called  war  on  drugs  declared  here 
more  than  40  years  ago,  which  has  been  so  costly  in 
human  lives  and  resources.  The  study  was  conducted 
and submitted by the Organization of American States 
two  years  ago.  Now,  we  are  preparing  for  the  special 
session of the General Assembly on this issue,to take 
place seven months from now. We continue to advocate 
a new global strategy based on scientific evidence that 
puts greater emphasis on health, education and tackling 
the  social  roots  of  this  phenomenon  and  seeks  to 
minimize the negative effects of drugs through the use 
of smarter, more effective and more humane strategies.
In Colombia, we have gone even further. Last week, 
I  presented  a  comprehensive  crop-substitution  plan 
based on that multifaceted approach. Not only will we 
attack the mafias, whom we will pursue relentlessly, but 
we will also provide social and economic opportunities 
for farmers, ensure that the State and the justice system 
are ever-present, prevent drug use and treat it as a public 
health issue. If we end the conflict, the guerrilla forces 
that have been a negative factor in drug-trafficking will 
become, once they lay down their weapons, an ally in 
combating it. It will be extraordinarily symbolic when 
those  who  once  protected  these  illicit  crops  will  help 
us to eradicate them. In that way, Colombia wins and 
the entire world wins. We will begin to free ourselves 
from coca and, at the same time, to preserve and save 
millions of hectares of tropical forest. As the Pope so 
eloquently said in this very Hall four days ago, “war is 
the negation of all rights and a dramatic assault on the 
environment” (A/70/PV.3, p. 5).
A peaceful Colombia will also be a safer Colombia 
because the enormous energy and effort that today are 
dedicated to dealing with this domestic conflict will be 
focused on improving security and on fighting crime in 
the cities and villages of my country. Of course, it will 
be  a  Colombia  with  more  opportunities  for  everyone 
where  we  will  continue  to  reduce  poverty  and  create 
jobs, as we have been doing at a rate that has made us 
the leader in Latin America in terms of social progress, 
15-29431
31/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
in recent years. Achieving peace will enable us to meet 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  which  are  now 
enshrined in Colombian law and which we adopted in 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1).
I now invite all Colombians, without exception, and 
all citizens of the world to pave the way for peace. The 
most worthwhile legacy we could leave to our children 
and  to  future  generations  is  peace.  Nothing  could  be 
more  important  or  more  urgent  because  peace  is  the 
supreme  good  of  any  society.  It  is  the  most  sacred 
good  and  the  very  reason  for  the  existence  of  the 
United Nations. Today, I am delighted to announce the 
good  news  that,  in  fewer  than  six  months,  bells  will 
toll  in  Colombia  to  announce  that  the  time  for  peace 
has come. I hope that clocks around the world will be 
synchronized with our own to show the same time — a 
time for peace, a time for humankind.
The Vice-President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Colombia  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of 
the Republic of Cyprus
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Cyprus.
Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of the Republic 
of Cyprus, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Nicos  Anastasiades,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Anastasiades:  This  year  marks  the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  creation  of  the  United 
Nations,  and  provides  us  with  an  opportunity  to  take 
stock  of  the  past  seven  decades,  as  well  as  to  jointly 
discuss and exchange ideas on how to further improve 
the  Organization’s  effectiveness  and  its  members’ 
collaboration,  with  the  benefit  of  humankind  always 
in  view.  In  order  to  assess  our  collective  efforts,  we 
should first recall the guiding principles that led to the 
establishment of the United Nations in the aftermath of 
the death and destruction of the Second World War. The 
Preamble to the founding Charter of the United Nations 
establishes  the  eradication  of  the  scourge  of  war  and 
the  promotion  of  human  rights  as  the  cornerstones  of 
our edifice.
So  far,  the  United  Nations  has  succeeded  in 
preventing  another  world  war  and  has  helped  to  end 
conflicts  through  mediation.  Currently,  more  than 
100,000 United Nations peacekeepers are deployed in 
16 countries. Yet numerous armed conflicts all over the 
planet  attest  to  the  fact  that  global  peace  still  evades 
us.  In  the  area  of  human  rights,  the  United  Nations 
has  undertaken  inspiring  initiatives,  starting  with 
the  adoption  in  1948  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights  and  followed  by  many  international 
agreements  and  treaties  setting  universal  standards 
for  civil,  political,  social  and  economic  rights.  Yet  in 
a world challenged by poverty, hunger, child mortality 
and social and economic inequalities, it is evident that 
we have a long way to go.
At  the  same  time,  leaving  aside  the  strengths 
and  weaknesses,  successes  and  failures  of  the  United 
Nations,  we  should  not  undermine  or  underestimate 
the fact that in an interdependent world it provides the 
only international forum in which nations can interact, 
deliberate and negotiate so as to resolve not only their 
differences, but also pressing regional and international 
challenges  that  are  not  country-specific  and  that  call 
the international order into question.
In  order  to  enhance  its  value  and  influence  in  a 
globalized  era,  the  United  Nations  has  evolved,  with 
its recent adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1). The 2030 Agenda seeks 
to address the needs of a developing global population 
through  its  commonly  agreed  17  Goals  and  169 
targets.  Cyprus,  which  has  been  actively  involved  in 
the  process  since  its  very  beginning,  is  proud  of  this 
achievement,  since  it  reflects  our  high  principles  of 
effective multilateralism and close cooperation among 
the nations of the world.
However, while on the one hand we have achieved 
the  adoption  of  such  an  ambitious  agenda,  on  the 
other  we  are  also  witnessing  the  ongoing  turmoil, 
extremism,  sectarianism,  civil  war  and  terrorism  that 
are taking place in the Middle East, North Africa and 
other  regions.  Their  effects  —  death,  persecution, 
32/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
dispossession of property, displacement, destruction of 
cultural heritage and forced migration — are becoming 
defining features of the daily lives of those affected. We 
must therefore be vigilant, for while we are attempting 
to establish fundamental principles of peace, stability 
and sustainable development for the future, in practice 
we are seeing the increasing migratory flows of those 
who are involuntarily fleeing their homes in search of 
a better future. As we strive to set up noble, long-term 
objectives and goals, events that are currently unfolding 
may render them irrelevant or unattainable. When we 
assume  that  only  Jordan,  Turkey,  Lebanon  and,  more 
recently,  Europe  are  affected  by  the  current  refugee 
crisis, we fail to acknowledge that if it persists, other 
countries and continents will be affected as well.
In  order  to  reverse  those  worrying  developments, 
therefore,  we  should  direct  our  efforts  so  that  every 
country and region in a conflict zone, particularly the 
Middle East and North Africa, can become a place in 
which  sustainable  development  is  a  reality.  That  can 
be achieved only by tackling the root causes that have 
led to this unprecedented situation — that is, political 
instability and economic insecurity. We should address 
this collectively and comprehensively. It is not enough 
to  take  action  against  the  individuals  responsible  for 
terrorist  attacks;  we  should  focus  our  efforts  on  the 
enablers of terrorism. It is not enough to rescue people 
from  sinking  boats;  we  should  focus  our  efforts  on 
human traffickers. It is not enough to support economic 
immigrants financially; we should focus our efforts on 
creating  the  political  and  socioeconomic  conditions 
that  can  ensure  that  all  these  people  do  not  emigrate 
from their countries.
In  view  of  this  horrific  humanitarian  crisis, 
one  might  wonder  if  we  have  neglected  to  take  the 
necessary  measures  to  avert  this  crisis.  Has  our 
strategy  been  adequate?  Have  we  failed  to  predict 
the  events  that  have  unfolded?  Considering  Cyprus’s 
proximity to the Middle East and North Africa, as well 
as our historical, political, social and cultural links, I 
am firmly convinced that the international community 
has  failed  to  sufficiently  appreciate  those  regions’ 
complexities.  At  the  same  time,  foreign  interventions 
and  involvement  have  not  produced  the  hoped-for 
results,  because  they  have  failed  to  take  into  account 
and  understand  those  nations’  internal  characteristics 
and particular sensitivities.
I  would  like  to  quote  a  remark  made  by  the 
Secretary-General at a ceremony in San Francisco on 
26 June commemorating the seventieth anniversary of 
the adoption of the Charter.
“Today, we take the idea of the United Nations 
for  granted,  but  bringing  it  to  life  required  huge 
leaps of statecraft to bridge differences.”
And  while  we  recognize  how  valuable  and  necessary 
the United Nations is today, we can also see that it is in 
need of reform and modernization to enable it to tackle 
today’s realities.
The  international  order  and  perspectives  of  1945 
are not the same as those of 2015. Traditional security 
orientations  have  changed  due  to  new  geopolitical 
circumstances.  Issues  of  peace  and  stability  can  no 
longer  be  confined  to  the  differences  between  and 
within nations, when non-State actors such as terrorists 
have  challenged  the  established  international  order, 
paving  the  way  for  religious  fundamentalism,  violent 
extremism,  the  forcible  displacement  of  people  and 
forced migration.
At the same time, new global threats such as climate 
change  and  environmental  degradation  have  also 
emerged, After 70 years, world leaders must once again 
demonstrate statesmanship and vision in order to rebuild 
newly broken societies and find a path to renewal. In 
that regard, we welcome the recently adopted resolution 
69/321, on revitalization, as well as the ongoing dialogue 
towards  enhancing  the  effectiveness  of  the  Security 
Council.  We  also  support  the  upcoming  high-level 
United Nations meetings aimed at resolving a number 
of  global  challenges,  including  the  United  Nations 
Climate  Change  Conference,  in  Paris  in  December; 
the special session on the world drug problem, in April 
2016;  and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Housing 
and  Sustainable  Urban  Development,  in  Quito  in 
November 2016.
Peacekeeping  constitutes  one  of  the  main  pillars 
and accomplishments of the United Nations. However, 
the United Nations is not only about peacekeeping; it 
is  also  about  conflict  prevention  and  peacebuilding. 
Article 33 of the Charter of the United Nations provides 
a  wide  gamut  of  options  for  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  issues.  We  look  forward  to  concrete  proposals  for 
adapting  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations 
to  the  changing  nature  of  conflict  and  for  enhancing 
their effectiveness and their ability to promote political 
solutions. In that regard, we greatly welcome the 2015 
review of United Nations peacebuilding operations (see 
15-29431
33/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
A/70/95),  and  we  compliment  the  Secretary-General 
for undertaking that initiative.
the  non-renewal  of  actions 
Cyprus,  through  its  own  experience  of  hosting  a 
United Nations peacekeeping force, greatly values the 
contribution of the United Nations to the maintenance 
of peace and security. We also express our appreciation 
for  the  plethora  of  United  Nations  resolutions  and 
Security  Council  decisions  that  have  condemned  the 
unacceptable  status  quo  and  the  violent  and  ongoing 
division of the island, calling for its reunification and 
the  withdrawal  of  occupation  forces  —  resolutions 
and  decisions  that,  unfortunately,  have  yet  to  be 
implemented.
Following 
that 
violated the exercise by the Republic of Cyprus of its 
sovereign  rights  within  its  exclusive  economic  zone 
and the change in the leadership of the Turkish Cypriot 
community, a window of opportunity opened, reviving 
our  hope  that  the  round  of  negotiations  that  resumed 
in  May  will  lead  to  a  final  settlement  of  the  Cyprus 
problem. That hope is based on my conviction that both 
I and the Turkish Cypriot leader share the same courage 
and resolve to advance decisively towards making the 
joint vision of our peoples — who desire the solution 
of  the  Cyprus  problem  through  a  viable,  lasting  and 
functional settlement — a reality. That settlement must 
be in full conformity with the values and principles of 
the character of the United Nations and the European 
Union acquis, as well as with the high-level agreements 
between  the  leaders  of  the  two  communities  and  the 
joint declaration of 11 February 2014. Such a settlement 
would lead to the evolution of the Republic of Cyprus 
as a federal State in a bizonal, bicommunal federation 
with  political  equality,  single  sovereignty,  a  single 
international  legal  personality  and  a  single  form  of 
citizenship;  a  State  that  is  and  will  continue  to  be  a 
Member of the United Nations, the European Union and 
numerous other international organizations, and whose 
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  constitutional 
order will not be constrained by anachronistic systems 
of  guarantees  by  third  countries  or  the  presence  of 
foreign troops on the island.
What  we  aspire  to  achieve  through  this  new 
round of negotiations is to reach a settlement in which 
there  will  be  neither  winners  nor  losers;  that  takes 
into  account  the  sensitivities  and  concerns  of  both 
communities; that respects the fundamental freedoms 
and  human  rights  of  all  Cypriots,  Greek  and  Turkish 
alike; that reunites our country, its people, its economy 
and its institutions; that creates a homeland of peaceful 
coexistence and prosperous collaboration among all its 
citizens, to the benefit of the younger generations; that 
allows Cyprus to realize its full potential by removing 
all  political  barriers  that  prevent  the  full  exploitation 
of  its  unique  geographical  position  at  the  crossroads 
of  Europe,  North  Africa,  the  Middle  East  and  Asia; 
that  transforms  Cyprus  into  a  shining  example  of 
ethnic,  cultural,  religious  and  linguistic  cooperation 
between Christian and Muslim communities; and that 
turns  Cyprus  into  a  model  of  reliability,  stability  and 
security  in  a  turbulent  and  volatile  region  currently 
characterized by protracted conflicts and instability.
I am pleased to inform the Assembly that, during 
the  new  round  of  negotiations,  progress  has  been 
achieved  on  a  number  of  issues  that  touch  on  almost 
all chapters of the Cyprus problem. However, on other 
substantive  issues,  significant  differences  still  need 
to  be  resolved  —  differences  whose  resolution  will 
also require the active and determined contribution of 
Turkey, whose occupation forces remain in the northern 
part  of  our  country.  1  sincerely  hope  that  Turkey’s 
rhetorical assurances of its desire to reach a settlement 
will at last be tested in practice through the adoption 
of concrete measures that will positively underpin the 
negotiation  process  and  reflect  the  current  climate  of 
hope on the island.
I  strongly  believe  that  reaching  a  solution  to  the 
Cyprus problem could become a paradigm for the way 
in which diplomacy and the adoption of a conciliatory 
stance  can  prevail  over  mistrust  and  contribute  to 
the  resolution  of  even  the  most  difficult  international 
issues.  Furthermore,  the  discovery  of  hydrocarbon 
reserves in the Eastern Mediterranean has the potential 
to create synergies and a grid of alliances for broader 
cooperation  between  hydrocarbon-producing  and 
hydrocarbon-consuming  countries  of  the  area  and 
beyond, to the benefit of the socioeconomic development 
and welfare of our peoples. Such positive developments 
can foster the achievement and maintenance of a much-
needed  environment  of  stability  and  peace  in  our 
immediate neighbourhood.
I am certain that the General Assembly shares the 
view  that  the  settlement  of  the  Cyprus  problem  will 
create  a  win-win  situation,  not  only  for  its  people, 
but  also  for  the  region,  the  interested  parties  and  the 
international community at large.
34/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  Republic  of  Cyprus  for  the  statement  he 
has just made.
Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of the Republic 
of Cyprus, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Tabaré Vázquez, President of the 
Eastern Republic of Uruguay
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  of  the  Eastern  Republic  of 
Uruguay.
Mr.  Tabaré  Vázquez,  President  of  the  Eastern 
Republic of Uruguay, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Tabaré Vázquez, President of the Eastern Republic 
of Uruguay, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Vázquez (spoke in Spanish): I bring to 
this forum, the largest and most representative of today’s 
world, the greetings of the people and the Government 
of  the  Eastern  Republic  of  Uruguay  —  a  greeting 
that  expresses  our  passion  for  peace  and  freedom; 
our  commitment  to  democracy,  human  rights,  justice 
and  solidarity;  our  commitment  to  the  sustainable 
development  of  our  country;  and  our  desire  for  a 
humankind  that,  despite  the  redundancy,  places  at 
its  core  human  beings —  all  human  beings,  men  and 
women of this world without exception or excuse. We 
are  all  equal  before  the  law,  but  above  all  we  are  all 
equal before life.
Although I come from Uruguay, I am not here to 
talk about the problems of Uruguay. I would modestly 
like  to  discuss  problems  affecting  humankind  as  a 
whole. Weeks ago the world public opinion was moved 
by the image of a dead child on a beach after the sinking 
of the vessel with which, like so many other victims of 
the  conflict  in  their  country,  he  was  trying  to  find  a 
place in the world where he could find the protection 
to  which  he  was  entitled.  The  international  reaction 
was immediate, but we hope that it was not ephemeral, 
that we not forget this tragedy that hit us and shamed 
us, to act with determination and efficiency in finding 
solutions to the global tragedy of the exodus of millions 
of human beings.
Uruguay, as a nation nurtured by immigration and 
as a people that received international solidarity when it 
needed it, accepts this unavoidable duty. It is imperative 
to  avoid  a  repetition  of  this  tragedy,  but  it  is  also 
necessary to address the causes that brought it about. 
Always, and not just in matters of health, prevention is 
better than cure. Prevention means recognizing others 
as the same as us, which is much more than “tolerating” 
them”, respecting and promoting their rights, all their 
rights; betting on democracy as a form of government 
and state of society; educating and training for dignified 
life,  decent  work  and  full  citizenship;  respecting  the 
planet  on  which  we  live,  which,  moreover,  is  still  the 
only  one  on  which  the  human  species  can  survive  as 
such. If we continue to destroy this world in the short 
term, humankind and future generations are sure to be 
homeless.
Prevention  also  means  rejecting  all  forms  of 
terrorism  and  discrimination  so  that  there  are  no 
dead  children  on  the  beaches  of  the  world  because 
they  cannot  find  a  place  to  live,  rejecting  terrorism 
and  discrimination  wherever  they  arise  and  in  all 
circumstances and places. Prevention is thinking boldly 
and acting sensibly with an eye on future generations, 
but as there is no future without a present, prevention is 
also thinking and acting according to our hopes, needs 
and possibilities.
A  moment  ago,  I  made  a  reference  to  health,  no 
doubt  because  of  my  work  experience  —  since  I  am 
a  physician  and  until  very  recently  was  in  the  full 
exercise  of  my  profession  and  vocation  —  but  not 
only  from  experience.  As  the  leader  of  my  country,  I 
am well aware that public health is a key and essential 
component  of  the  sovereignty  of  nations,  a  right  of 
individuals, a factor in the development of societies and 
an unavoidable responsibility of States.
From  that  perspective,  we  face  a  disturbing  and 
unavoidable reality at the level of the whole of planet 
Earth. Indeed, according to recent studies and reports of 
the World Health Organization, first, the global burden 
of  disease  is  shifting  from  acute,  infectious  diseases 
to  chronic  non-communicable  diseases;  the  two  must 
be  fought,  by  working  to  keep  acute  diseases  from 
appearing and by acting to prevent non-communicable 
chronic  diseases  from  occurring.  Secondly,  chronic 
conditions  such  as  heart  disease  and  strokes  are 
15-29431
35/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
currently the leading cause of death worldwide. If we 
add other non-communicable diseases linked mainly to 
the lifestyle that we are developing as we advance, it is 
obvious that there is little left to say. Over 60 to 70 per 
cent  of  morbidity  and  mortality  worldwide  is  due  to 
chronic non-communicable diseases — cardiovascular 
diseases,  cancer,  chronic  obstructive  pulmonary 
disease, diabetes, and so on. Accordingly there is still 
so much to be done.
That  task  should  have  no  borders  of  any  kind, 
because  the  complex  of  problems  underlying  them 
know  no  borders.  That  is  so  much  the  case  that  the 
mere mention of the complex global landscape brings 
to mind Africa and Asia in particular, as well as Latin 
America, where many low-income and middle-income 
countries currently face a double burden of morbidity. 
Infectious  diseases  are  killing  people  mercilessly  and 
impacting us deeply, while chronic non-communicable 
diseases are also insidiously killing our populations.
At  the  same  time,  malnutrition  and  risk  factors 
for  chronic  non-communicable  diseases,  such  as 
overweight  and  obesity,  have  been  said  to  also  affect 
high-income  countries  and  remain  prevalent  in  the 
world.  It  is  estimated  that  cancer  has  been  costing 
Latin America $4.5 billion annually in terms of direct 
costs for physicians’ consultations, studies, diagnoses, 
treatment,  medication,  hospitalization,  palliative  care 
and more. There are indirect costs as well, such as travel 
and accommodations, lost work days and productivity. 
How much of that money could be saved if, rather than 
using  it  to  treat  the  effects  of  these  diseases,  it  could 
be put into social policies to improve people’s lives by 
offering  better  education,  better  health  and  dignifed 
living conditions for our peoples?
It may be unpleasant to mention this aspect, but it 
is part of an uncomfortable reality that we must change, 
because if we do not adopt immediate measures by the 
year 2030, 1 million Latin Americans will die annually 
of  cancer  alone,  and  more  than  7  million  people 
globally will die from a preventable disease that, with 
early  diagnosis  and  proper  treatment,  can  be  cured. 
Cancer  will  kill  more  people  in  the  world  every  year 
than those killed during the Second World War. We are 
facing  a  brutal  pandemic  and,  I  humbly  suggest,  we 
must be aware of the reality we are currently suffering a 
pandemic that the humankind has never before known.
Life is precious; it has no price. In order to address 
and  reverse  the  growing  morbidity  and  mortality 
from  cancer  and  other  non-communicable  diseases,  it 
is  important  to  adopt  political  positions  and  policies 
and  to  implement  systemic  strategies  to  end  poverty, 
generate social inclusion, promote education, encourage 
healthful  lifestyles,  and  strengthen  integrated  health 
systems, 
the 
primary  prevention,  early  detection  and  diagnosis, 
treatment,  rehabilitation  and  long-term  follow-up  of 
these diseases. In regard to healthful lifestyles, physical 
activity and sports are important, as is a healthful diet, 
as opposed to the harmful and highly processed foods 
of an industry that growing exponentially.
including  national  programmes  for 
We  must  control  smoking,  alcoholism  and  drug 
abuse.  Based  on  our  experience,  we  feel  that  it  is 
indispensable  to  include  tobacco  and  alcohol  in  our 
policies  on  drugs.  We  know  it  is  not  easy,  but  it  is 
possible to regulate those markets without resorting to 
prohibitionist  dogmatism  and  respecting  the  rights  of 
individuals and making public health a matter of State 
sovereignty and social progress. Above all, I reiterate 
that  the  fight  against  smoking  is  also  one  against  its 
vector of transmission, which is not mosquitoes, birds 
or  rats  but  a  multinational  tobacco  industry  that,  in 
order  to  double  its  profits,  has  no  problem  killing  its 
own customers.
leader 
in 
Uruguay  has  been  a  world 
the 
implementation  of  the  Framework  Convention  on 
Tobacco Control. Beginning in January 2014, Uruguay 
adopted  a  law  on  the  control  and  regulation  of 
cannabis,  and  we  are  working  on  measures  related  to 
controlling  alcoholism,  perhaps  with  a  zero-tolerance 
policy  in  certain  cases  and  circumstances.  Finally, 
with  regard  to  that  issue,  nothing  can  be  achieved  in 
isolation.  Everything  requires  sensitivity,  resolve 
and  perseverance  on  the  part  of  all  Governments  and 
peoples throughout the world.
In the area of international cooperation, we are not 
starting from zero. There are a number of institutional 
frameworks  and  modalities  and  very  many  projects 
under way. Could the implementation of the former and 
the progress of the latter be improved? No doubt, but 
rather than inventing new ones, let us make better use 
of what we already have. To that end, we certainly will 
need more human, material and financial resources, but 
there is one resource without which all these things, as 
abundant as they may be, will always be insufficient. 
I am referring to the resource of political will, which 
in this case is more than an ideological dilemma or a 
question of left, right or centre; it is an ethical issue.
36/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
It is not ethical that, in some circumstances, tribunals 
and  multinational  organizations  are  able  to  prioritize 
trade over the defence of the fundamental human right 
to  health  and  life.  That  is  what  Uruguay  is  suffering 
from.  A  major  international  tobacco  company  —  I 
would cite only its initials so as not to offend certain 
sensibilities,  but  it  is  in  fact  Philip  Morris  —  has 
appealed  against  Uruguay  for  bringing  the  issue  of 
tobacco control to the World Health Organization. That 
is the situation Uruguay faces. Perhaps because we are 
a small country, we have been chosen for that role, not 
just  to  punish  Uruguay  but  so  that  other  countries  of 
the world do not follow the path Uruguay has taken to 
fight against tobacco and to provide a better quality of 
life to its people.
Calling  for  ethics  in  the  twenty-first  century,  I 
realize, might appear to be naïve or anachronistic, but 
the reality indicates the opposite. As we stated, we need 
only look at the news of the past few weeks to see that 
in some aspects, none of them trivial, the world really 
seems  to  be  a  kind  of  lunatic  asylum  run  by  its  own 
patients.  That  is  terrible,  but  if  humankind  wants  to 
survive  and  progress,  it  cannot  resign  itself  to  such  a 
terrible situation. It cannot become resigned to war or 
to the humiliation of poor people who have nothing to 
eat, nor can we close our eyes 24 hours after seeing a 
Syrian boy dead on a Turkish beach.
From  our  own  perspective  as  a  Latin  American 
country  and  as  Latin  Americans,  we  cannot  fail  to 
mention  three  situations  that  are  prominent  on  the 
agenda  of  our  region.  The  first  is  the  restoration  of 
diplomatic  relations  between  the  United  States  and 
Cuba  as  an  indispensable  step  in  the  normalization 
of  bilateral  relations  between  the  two  countries.  We 
commend  that  step,  and  while  we  are  aware  of  the 
complexity of the process under way, we are confident 
with regard to its future, particularly with regard to the 
key element of ending the economic, trade and financial 
embargo imposed on Cuba more than 50 years ago by 
the Government of the United States. As it has done on 
previous occasions, Uruguay will vote in favour of the 
General Assembly’s draft resolution calling for an end 
to the embargo. Hopefully it will be the last time that 
the Assembly will have to pronounce on the issue.
The  second  situation  in  Latin  America  is  the 
tension that has existed for several weeks on the border 
between  Colombia  and  Venezuela.  We  call  for  calm, 
respectful and open dialogue between the Governments 
of  these  brother  countries  in  order  to  deal  with  this 
situation,  whose  main  victims  are  the  peoples  of  the 
two countries, especially their socially most vulnerable 
sectors.
The third situation is the peace talks in Colombia, 
another  complex  but  decisive  process  for  our  brother 
country  and  our  region  as  a  whole.  We  support  this 
process  and  are  ready  to  cooperate  with  it  under  the 
terms agreed to and demanded by the parties. Uruguay 
is not omnipotent, nor does it claim to be omnipresent 
or infallible, but neither is it indifferent.
Mr. González Franco (Paraguay), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
In  2008,  our  country  officially  submitted  its 
candidacy  for  a  seat  on  the  Security  Council  as  a 
non-permanent member for the period 2016 to 2017. We 
did so based on our commitment to this Organization, 
of which we are a founding member; on our adherence 
to  international  law  and  multilateralism;  on  our  firm 
rejection of all forms of terrorism and discrimination; 
on  our  conviction  that  the  only  means  capable  of 
resolving conflicts are the peaceful ones laid down in 
the Charter of the United Nations; and on our confidence 
in the value of the Security Council’s efforts to fulfil 
its primary function of maintaining international peace 
and security.
Uruguay  has  contributed  to  peace  and  security 
with  a  concrete  and  unwavering  commitment  that 
began  before  the  creation  of  the  United  Nations,  has 
been  maintained  over 
the  Organization’s  70-year 
history and today is manifest in its participation in the 
peacekeeping  operations  whose  mandates  come  from 
that very Security Council. We want to bring our values, 
commitment  and  efforts  to  bear  as  a  non-permanent 
member of the Council for the period 2016 to 2017. We 
rely on the support of those here to help us do that, and 
we will not disappoint them.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Eastern  Republic  of  Uruguay  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Tabaré  Vázquez,  President  of  the  Eastern 
Republic  of  Uruguay,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Arthur Peter Mutharika, President 
of the Republic of Malawi, Minister for Defense and 
15-29431
37/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
Commander-in-Chief of the Malawi Defense Force 
and the Malawi Police Service
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Thse 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Malawi,  Minister  for  Defense  and 
Commander-in-Chief of the Malawi Defense Force and 
the Malawi Police Service.
Mr.  Arthur  Peter  Mutharika,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Malawi,  Minister  for  Defense  and 
Commander-in-Chief of the Malawi Defense Force 
and the Malawi Police Service, was escorted into 
the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Arthur 
Peter Mutharika, President of the Republic of Malawi, 
Minister  for  Defense  and  Commander-in-Chief  of  the 
Malawi Defense Force and the Malawi Police Service, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Mutharika:  It  gives  me  great  pleasure 
to congratulate Mr. Mogens Lukketoft on his election 
to preside over the General Assembly at its seventieth 
session.  His  credentials  are  impeccable,  and  I  am 
confident  that  he  will  steer  the  Assembly’s  affairs  to 
a  successful  conclusion,  with  all  his  objectives  and 
aspirations fulfilled. I would like to assure him of my 
delegation’s  support.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  His 
Excellency Mr. Sam Kutesa of our sister country Uganda, 
the outgoing President of the General Assembly, for his 
untiring efforts during his presidency. His dedication to 
the work of the United Nations is commendable. And I 
reiterate Malawi’s support for the Secretary-General as 
he strives to realize the purposes of the Charter of the 
United Nations.
The theme of this year’s general debate, “The United 
Nations at 70 — a new commitment to action”, comes 
at  a  very  opportune  time,  for  it  fittingly  summarizes 
the core business of the United Nations at its inception, 
today and in the future — that is, the maintenance of 
international  peace  and  security.  The  United  Nations 
was  created  on  the  understanding  that  peace  is  not 
just  the  absence  of  war;  it  comes  with  the  struggles, 
compromises,  sacrifices  and  choices  we  make  as 
nations and as individuals for the benefit of humanity. 
We  cannot  realize  a  complete  sense  of  peace  without 
justice, dignity and freedom. We can rejoice that in the 
70  years  of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  we  have 
collectively averted another world war. However, during 
the same period, we have lived in fear and uncertainty, 
in a world tainted by the conflicts, poverty and violence 
that have endangered our very existence.
As  we  live  in  this  imperfect  world,  the  pursuit 
of  peace  should  be  our  main  goal  if  we  are  to  shape 
a  promising  life  for  our  future  generations.  I  would 
therefore  like  to  commend  the  Secretary-General  for 
convening the High-level Independent Panel on Peace 
Operations, aimed at reviewing current United Nations 
operations  and  considering  emerging  future  needs  in 
the prevention and resolution of conflicts. The Panel’s 
report  (A/70/95),  submitted  in  June,  has  highlighted 
some  important  issues  that  I  feel  that  we,  as  part  of 
the  global  family,  should  consider  and  take  seriously. 
I  would  like  to  mention  just  a  few  of  those  issues 
demanding  our  attention  as  members  of  the  United 
Nations.
First, peace operations should be guided by a focus 
on  political  solutions,  in  which  the  emphasis  should 
be  on  conflict  prevention  through  political  means, 
with  a  bias  towards  people-centred  solutions  as  well 
as the protection of civilians. Secondly, there is a need 
for  comprehensive  peace  and  security  partnerships 
that involve the Security Council, regional actors and 
national  mechanisms.  Thirdly,  the  world,  through 
the  United  Nations,  should  find  a  way  to  compensate 
people  who  have  suffered  abuse.  Fourthly,  there  is  a 
need for greater political will on the part of all actors in 
peace missions.
Let me now touch on another important issue that 
has been on the agenda of the United Nations for quite 
some  time,  that  is,  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  I 
have followed with keen interest the intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  how  the  Security  Council  can  be 
reformed  to  make  it  more  representative,  democratic, 
effective,  transparent  and  accountable  to  all.  The 
Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration are our 
guiding  principles  in  that  endeavour.  Our  quest  for 
peace  and  security  should  be  hinged  on  sustainable 
socioeconomic  development  for  our  people  that  has 
true meaning and reflects the lives of our people.
Despite  varied  progress  among  Member  States, 
and developing countries in particular, the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  have  proved  that  unity 
of purpose is critical to transforming the world into a 
better  place  for  our  children  and  future  generations. 
My  Government  is  grateful  to  development  partners 
that  have  worked  to  help  Malawi  achieve  four  of  the 
38/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
eight  MDGs:  reducing  child  mortality,  combating 
HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other  diseases,  ensuring 
environmental  sustainability  and  developing  a  global 
partnership  for  development.  It  is  evident  that  as  a 
country  we  are  embarking  on  the  implementation  of 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  with  unfinished 
business.  It  is  therefore  imperative,  as  we  move  to 
implement  the  new  global  development  agenda,  to  be 
mindful of the important role that global partnerships 
can play in effective development cooperation, thereby 
ensuring the successful implementation of development 
programmes in the developing countries.
We  in  Malawi  are  also  glad  to  reiterate  the  fact 
that,  as  we  look  to  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, we can draw international pride and inspiration 
from  our  collective  achievements  on  MDG  6,  which 
involves halting and reversing the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 
Under that goal, we aimed to put 15 million people on 
treatment  globally,  and  today  we  can  stand  here  and 
boldly  declare  that  we  have  met  that  target.  As  we 
look  to  the  sustainable  development  agenda,  we  must 
commit, as the international community, to putting an 
end to AIDS as a public health threat and finishing the 
business of HIV/AIDS by 2030.
My  Government  has  already  committed  to  doing 
so, and current evidence shows that Malawi is well on 
the  way  to  achieving  that  goal.  Together,  we  can  end 
AIDS by 2030, but it will require conducting business 
“as unusual” and fast-tracking HIV responses, in line 
with the evidence of what works. But more importantly, 
it  will  require  continued  shared  responsibility  and 
global  solidarity  in  financing  HIV  programmes  and 
enhancing the capacity of developing countries such as 
Malawi to manufacture the drugs and make them more 
accessible to our people.
Having said that, let me also reiterate what I have 
always  maintained  —  that  all  of  the  aforementioned 
wonderful  programmes  will  be 
realized  when 
we,  as  a  global  family,  do  not  leave  our  youth  and 
women  behind.  In  Malawi  and,  I  believe,  in  almost 
all  developing  countries,  young  people  and  women 
constitute the majority of the population. It is therefore 
only natural that they be adequately represented at all 
decision-making  levels  of  society.  The  late  President 
Mandela of South Africa once said, “As long as a nation 
refuses to acknowledge the equal role of more than half 
of itself, it is doomed to failure”. That is a fact and I 
could not agree with it more.
Let  me  commend  President  Xi  Jinping  of  China, 
and  the  Secretary-General,  through  the  Office  of 
UN-Women,  for  organizing  on  the  margins  of  this 
session  the  Global  Leaders’  Meeting  on  Gender 
Equality and Women’s Empowerment: A Commitment 
to Action, under the theme “Planet 50-50 by 2030: step 
it up for gender equality”, to which a number of leaders, 
including Malawi’s, made national commitments.
My Government is committed to the “He For She” 
campaign  to  address  gender  inequality,  end  gender-
based violence, promote women’s political participation 
and facilitate women’s economic empowerment. It has 
therefore  been  singled  out  as  one  of  the  core  priority 
areas of our revised Malawi Growth and Development 
Strategy  —  the  blueprint  of  Malawi’s  development. 
Malawi also took advantage of the forum to host a side 
high-level event to share perspectives on demographic 
dividends  and  investing  in  youth,  which  we  hope 
will  successfully 
improved  coordination, 
commitment and support for youth empowerment and 
development for Africa.
lead 
to 
We have expressed the desire for shared prosperity 
and well-being and unity and integration, for a continent 
where the full potential of women and youth are realized 
with  freedom  from  fear,  disease  and  want.  As  others 
taking  the  floor  earlier  have  noted,  two  days  ago  we 
adopted  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs). 
That was brilliant. However, allow me to highlight SDG 
4, which speaks of education. As a champion of higher 
education in Africa, I wish to reiterate in no uncertain 
terms that all of the brilliant resolutions and decisions 
coming out of this great forum, and many similar ones 
across  the  world,  will  fall  flat  if  countries  ignore  the 
task of educating the people, especially young people 
and, even more so, girl children.
In that vein, I am pleased to note that Sustainable 
Development  Goal  4  is  about  “ensuring  inclusive  and 
equitable  quality  education  and  promoting  lifelong 
learning”.  However,  it  does  not  fully  capture  the 
centrality  of  higher  education  in  achieving  the  wider 
Sustainable Development Goals and targets. Allow me 
to express gratitude to those partners that continue to 
stand  with  us  to  promote  higher  education  in  Africa. 
With improved and increased access to higher education, 
the world will strike a massive blow at poverty.
In 
fulfilling 
international 
responsibility,  my  Government  recognizes  the  cross-
cutting  role  of  respecting  and  protecting  people’s 
its  national  and 
15-29431
39/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law.  My  Government 
will  continue  to  promote  human  rights,  inter  alia,  by 
enhancing  awareness  of  human  rights,  promoting 
equitable access to opportunity and strengthening legal 
protections.
The full enjoyment of people’s human rights cannot 
be achieved in a society full of fraud, corruption and 
theft of public resources. Those vices must be dealt with 
in order to protect people’s human rights and ensure the 
delivery of expected services from their Government. 
Our Government has therefore always been committed 
to  fighting  corruption,  fraud  and  theft.  It  is  against 
that background that we are pursuing and prosecuting 
suspects for the theft of public funds. May god bless the 
United Nations family.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 
the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Malawi,  Minister 
for  Defense  and  Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Malawi 
Defense  Force  and  the  Malawi  Police  Service  for  his 
statement.
Mr.  Arthur  Peter  Mutharkika,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Malawi,  Minister  for  Defense  and 
Commander-in-Chief of the Malawi Defense Force 
and the Malawi Police Service, was escorted from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Donald Tusk, President of the 
European Council
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the European Council.
Mr.  Donald  Tusk,  President  of  the  European 
Council , was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Donald 
Tusk, President of the European Council, and inviting 
him to make a statement.
Mr.  Tusk  (European  Council):  I  am  here  today 
to  reassure  the  General  Assembly  that  Europe  is  as 
committed  to  its  values  and  objectives  now  as  it  has 
ever been. Europe will stay the course, even though it is 
now confronting challenges that we have not witnessed 
for  decades.  Wars  are  raging  both  to  the  south  and 
east of our borders. European leaders are tackling the 
consequences of borders being changed on our continent 
by force — as is the case in Ukraine — in violation of 
the Charter of the United Nations. We are also dealing 
with  the  refugee  crisis,  with  terrorist  attacks  inside 
Europe and with economic difficulties in some member 
States.
As  difficult  as  the  situation  is,  I  am  sure  that  we 
will find ways of dealing with it and, most importantly, 
we will at the same time remain dedicated to helping 
make  the  whole  world  a  better  place.  Everyone  who 
wishes to contribute to eradicating poverty, supporting 
peacekeeping missions and solving the migration crisis, 
as  well  as  handling  the  causes  and  effects  of  climate 
change, can still count on us. For Europe, isolationism 
has  never  been  and  never  will  be  an  option.  We  are 
always  ready  to  listen  to  the  good  and  sound  advice 
from  our  friends  on  the  unprecedented  refugee  and 
migrant crisis that we face today.
The  myth  prevails  that  Europe  is  the  only  rich 
place on Earth. That is not true. There are other places 
comparable  to  us  in  terms  of  wealth,  but  for  some 
reason  refugees  and  migrants  are  not  flowing  there. 
That  is  because  wealth  is  not  the  only  element  that 
determines  the  place  where  people  choose  the  future 
of  their  children.  Values  such  as  tolerance,  openness, 
respect for diversity, freedom, human rights and those 
enshrined in the Geneva Convention are also a magnet 
attracting them to us.
And  we  refuse  to  change  in  those  respects.  If  in 
Europe  we  are  engaged  in  animated  discussions  on 
relocation  quotas,  it  is  because  we  care;  it  is  because 
we seek to be as effective and as inclusive as possible. 
But  establishing  quotas  are  just  a  small  part  of  what 
Europe is already doing to help those who flee wars and 
persecution.  By  contrast,  many  countries  represented 
here  deal  with  that  problem  in  a  much  simpler  way, 
namely, by not allowing migrants and refugees to enter 
their territories at all. That is why suggesting that Europe 
represents an example of poor treatment or indifference 
towards asylum-seekers is sheer hypocrisy. In fact, the 
opposite  is  true,  as  we  can  see  from  the  direction  of 
their travel. No one seems to be escaping from Europe, 
while  people  from  all  over  Eurasia  and  Africa  are 
coming to Europe. The crisis we are talking about has 
global dimensions and demands a global solution. First 
of all, it demands global solidarity. Everyone can offer 
help  to  the  refugees,  and  those  who  do  not  want  to 
should at least refrain from hiding their indifference by 
criticizing Europe for doing too little.
It  is  no  coincidence  that  the  general  debate  this 
year is focused mainly on the situation in the Middle 
40/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
East,  especially  in  Syria.  Let  us  have  no  illusions. 
Syria’s  crisis  will  not  be  resolved  unless  a  common 
denominator  of  interests  is  found  among  the  regional 
players.  But  a  peace  plan  must  not  be  only  a  formula 
for  defining  a  new  division  of  spheres  of  influence; 
here  in  the  United  Nations  we  should  speak  not  only 
about  the  interests  of  the  regional  Powers  but,  above 
all, about the interests of millions of Syrians, including 
the internally displaced and refugees. The fight against 
terrorism is no doubt important in that context; that is 
why we welcome the fact that this objective is gaining 
the support of new and quite unexpected allies. But we 
cannot overlook the fact that many refugees are fleeing 
State terrorism, which is demonstrated dramatically by 
the case of Syria.
Europe, which every day witnesses the tragedies of 
millions of Syrian refugees, must be their advocate. We 
all want to see stable States in the region. Stabilization 
is a value beyond any dispute, but stability cannot be 
won by the use of barrel bombs and chemical weapons 
against civilians. Today, the circle of those proposing 
the idea that Bashar Al-Assad should be part of Syria’s 
transition is growing, yet we cannot forget that millions 
of  people  have  fled  his  horrific  methods  of  trying  to 
secure stability in Syria. During my trips to the region, 
I was told that Al-Assad’s victory would lead only to 
further exodus. The only goal and intention of a peace 
plan for Syria must be to make it possible for the people 
to start leading normal lives in the region once again. 
That message, and that message alone, will be consistent 
with the values of the international community and the 
European  Union,  and  with  the  values  that  the  United 
Nations has held dear for more than 70 years.
This year will also be crucial in the global efforts 
to fight the causes and consequences of climate change. 
Over  the  past  days  and  weeks,  we  have  listened  with 
great  hope  and  satisfaction  to  the  pledges  of  leaders 
committed  to  fighting  global  warming.  Europe  is 
determined that the Paris Climate Change Conference 
will  be  a  breakthrough,  symbolizing  our  readiness  to 
undertake  unified  action  in  confronting  that  global 
problem.
With a pledge to reduce carbon dioxide emissions 
to  40  per  cent  of  its  1990  levels,  Europe  remains  in 
the  lead  of  that  process,  but  fighting  global  warming 
is  not  a  sports  competition.  Victory  is  possible  when 
everybody moves in the same direction and at a similar 
pace. That is why we invite all Member States to take 
part  in  that  common  endeavour.  Without  a  global 
agreement, Europe’s isolated efforts will be impractical. 
What  matters  for  Europe  is  practical  effects  and  not 
ideological  fervour.  Global  challenges  must  be  dealt 
with multilaterally or they will not be dealt with at all. 
We all have a duty to make the international community 
mean  something  real.  We  are  facing  multiple  global 
emergencies. Let them pave the way to forge a global 
community that is truly strong, truly global and truly 
real.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the European 
Council for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Donald  Tusk,  President  of  the  European 
Council, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Shinzo Abe, Prime Minister of Japan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Japan.
Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime 
Minister  of  Japan,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
the 
this  year  commemorates 
Mr.  Abe  (Japan)  (spoke  in  Japanese;  English 
interpretation by the delegation): The United Nations, 
which 
seventieth 
anniversary  of  its  founding,  brings  together  people 
who  do  not  easily  despair  even  in  the  face  of 
desperate  circumstances.  What  else  can  explain  the 
Organization’s ability to withstand such adversity and 
to arrive at this moment? The Ebola virus has spread 
wildly.  Extremism  is  running  rampant.  And  now  an 
immense  tide  of  refugees  is  attempting  to  flee  from 
horror,  with  their  very  lives  at  risk.  We  must  address 
whatever  challenges  arise,  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United Nations. Each Member State must bring its own 
distinctive capabilities to the struggle.
Japan  has  a  history  of  supporting  nation-building 
in a wide range of places. We have worked extensively 
to  enhance  human  resources,  and  we  have  given  our 
utmost in humanitarian assistance and in the promotion 
of women’s rights. Now more than ever, Japan wishes 
to offer its wealth of experience unstintingly. Japan will 
further enhance its assistance for refugees and internally 
displaced  persons  from  Syria  and  Iraq.  In  monetary 
terms, our assistance for 2015 comes to approximately 
15-29431
41/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
$810 million, triple the amount we provided last year. 
In Lebanon, we will spend $2 million in new assistance 
measures. We will leverage that amount in order to give 
momentum to the collaboration between humanitarian 
and  development  actors.  We  will  also  provide 
approximately $2.5 million in humanitarian assistance 
to neighbour countries of the European Union that are 
grappling  with  the  influx  of  refugees  and  migrants, 
such as the Republic of Serbia and the former Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia.
Each of those assistance measures is an emergency 
countermeasure that Japan is able to implement. At the 
same  time,  however,  our  steadfast  principle  is  always 
to endeavour to return to the root causes of a problem 
and  to  improve  the  situation  on  the  ground.  In  order 
to bring stability to the daily lives of the Iraqi people, 
it  is  vital  to  ensure  that  they  have  dependable  water 
supply and sewage systems. Taking those programmes 
into  account,  Japan  is  preparing  assistance  worth 
approximately  $750  million  to  help  build  peace  and 
fully  consolidate  peace  across  the  Middle  East  and 
Africa.
It is important to look squarely at the facts. Behind 
the present tide of refugees is a far greater number of 
people who are unable even to flee and become refugees. 
Rebuilding devastated countries and transforming them 
into places that allow people to resume the pursuit of 
happiness may seem like a roundabout way of reaching 
our  goal,  but  promoting  and  cultivating  each  human 
being’s  abilities  and  capacity  to  fight  fear  and  want 
at  the  grass-roots  level  is  in  fact  the  shortest  path  to 
that end. That strong belief has guided Japan’s policy 
of  prioritizing  the  promotion  of  education  and  health 
and,  in  particular,  the  importance  of  strengthening 
women  of  all  ages.  Our  policy  seeks  to  fully  ensure 
human  security.  I  am  extremely  pleased  that  such 
efforts  to  value  each  individual  were  thoroughly 
incorporated within the 2030 Sustainable Development 
Goals (resolution 70/1) set forth by the United Nations 
community.
Japan  wishes  to  create  an  environment  in  which 
mothers  of  newborns  are  free  to  focus  exclusively  on 
the  healthy  growth  of  their  children.  In  reflecting  on 
that premise, I came across a photograph that portrayed 
the  contents  of  a  bag  carried  by  a  female  refugee.  I 
asked  myself  what  people  would  pack  in  the  one  bag 
they  take  with  them  when  fleeing  hardship?  Abessa, 
a  20-year-old  woman  who  crossed  the  Mediterranean 
Sea on a rubber raft, was able to bring very little with 
her when she fled a Palestinian refugee camp south of 
Damascus.  Everything  in  the  photograph  was  for  her 
10-month old daughter: a clean change of socks, a hat 
and a single jar of baby food.
But as I contemplated that photograph, my eyes were 
drawn to a notebook that had been wrapped carefully in 
plastic to protect it from getting wet. I recognized it as 
a handbook on maternal and child health that Japan has 
been distributing in refugee camps in Syria. In Japan, 
all  pregnant  women  receive  this  handbook,  in  which 
they can keep records about their own health and that 
of their child. This handbook system has been in place 
for more than 70 years.
Who among all the mothers who smile sweetly at 
the  hand-written  records  of  their  child’s  heights  and 
weights  could  wish  for  that  same  child  to  grow  up  to 
become  an  apostle  of  fear?  Each  woman’s  handbook 
is  a  record  of  her  prayers  for  her  child  to  grow  up 
healthy. Her notebook acquires a power of its own: the 
power  of  the  mother’s  wish  for  her  child’s  life  not  to 
be squandered. We have distributed maternal and child 
health handbooks in refugee camps in Palestine, Syria, 
and Jordan in the hope that a mother’s love can transform 
the soil that sometimes gives rise to despair and fear. 
We know that some women continue to treasure those 
hope-infused handbooks even during their exodus. I am 
struck by the fact that the concept of human security, 
which seeks to empower each individual, has produced 
such eloquent, albeit bitter results.
The rule of law and the principle of equality before 
the law are values that Japan respects above all others. 
The  extension  of  those  principles  also  begins  with 
fostering human capacity. I would like to share with the 
Assembly the story of a young Japanese woman who has 
been giving her all through Japan’s training assistance 
programme for police officers. In order to break with the 
very root of violence and fear, it is critical to cultivate 
good  police  personnel  and  good  police  governance. 
In that conviction, we have been directing our efforts 
at training police personnel in Afghanistan and many 
other 
the  Japan  International 
Cooperation Agency, Japan has been steadily providing 
such  assistance  to  the  national  police  force  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  since  2004.  More 
than 20,000 police personnel to date, including women 
and a number of former armed insurgent soldiers, have 
received such training. Our motto has been to cultivate 
a police force that is friendly towards the local people.
locations.  Through 
42/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
The  Japan  International  Cooperation  Agency 
was  responsible  for  developing  and  implementing  the 
training  plan,  and  women  have  consistently  been  in 
charge of Japan’s staff on the ground in the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo. One such woman was called a 
“little giant” when she first arrived. Seen alongside her 
male police colleagues, she was indeed small in stature. 
yet she was dubbed a giant because she never flinched 
from difficulties and took the initiative to grapple with 
issues, making full use of the French language skills she 
had acquired. The national police personnel respected 
and  trusted  her.  Two  years  ago,  here  in  the  General 
Assembly  (see  A/68/PV.12),  I  emphasized  that  Japan 
has  recently  made  a  point  of  establishing  itself  as  a 
proactive contributor to peace, based on the principle of 
international cooperation. The woman I just mentioned 
is one of the Japanese individuals dedicated to this and 
working on the front lines.
I am one of Japan’s biggest champions of ensuring 
that women take on many of the roles that will shape 
our country’s future. In our external assistance efforts, 
too,  we  emphasize  policies  and  measures  aimed  at 
improving  women’s  safety,  health  and  well-being  and 
upholding their human rights. In countries recovering 
from  civil  war,  Japanese  women  have  been  making 
splendid  contributions  in  support  of  those  working  to 
uphold  the  rule  of  law,  something  I  am  particularly 
proud  of.  On  a  number  of  previous  occasions,  I  have 
urged  the  international  community  to  ensure  that  the 
twenty-first century will be an era in which women’s 
human rights are protected.
Today,  I  am  also  pleased  to  be  able  to  report 
that  Japan  has  finalized  its  action  plan  on  women’s 
participation and protection based on Security Council 
resolution  1325  (2000),  important  aspects  of  which 
include protecting women and girls from violence and 
providing  them  with  basic  health  services.  Moreover, 
this  year,  for  the  second  consecutive  year,  we  hosted 
WAW! 2015, the World Assembly for Women, holding 
meaningful  discussions  with  a  view  to  creating  a 
society in which women can shine.
I  believe  the  United  Nations  is  a  venue  where 
optimistic realists can come together. It does not give 
itself up to impotent despair of the future, but neither does 
it avert its eyes from reality. That is how it has shaped 
the 70 years of its history. And I, too, feel compelled to 
face up squarely to reality on several issues, the first 
of which is North Korea. In that regard, Japan intends 
to  work  in  coordination  with  other  relevant  countries 
in  an  effort  to  arrive  at  a  comprehensive  resolution 
of  the  outstanding  issues,  including  those  related  to 
abductions, nuclear power and missiles.
This year, the seventieth anniversary of the atomic 
bombings  of  Hiroshima  and  Nagasaki,  was  one  in 
which  we  relived  our  grief.  Regrettably,  however,  it 
seems  that  in  some  places  nuclear  arsenals,  with  no 
transparency,  continue  to  grow.  Moreover,  this  year’s 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  failed  to  come 
up with guidelines for future nuclear disarmament and 
non-proliferation.  We  believe  that  the  United  States 
and  Russia  should  continue  to  reduce  their  nuclear 
weapon  stockpiles,  while  we  also  insist  that  other 
States possessing nuclear weapons should also work to 
reduce their arsenals. In its determination to eliminate 
nuclear weapons completely, Japan is preparing a new 
draft  resolution  aimed  at  promoting  united  action  on 
the issue by the international community that I am sure 
many countries will support.
This year, as we celebrate the seventieth anniversary 
of the founding of the United Nations, a major push for 
reform of the Security Council has begun. During the 
last  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  assiduous 
efforts  of  dedicated  individuals  and  various  countries 
greatly  intensified  the  discussion  of  Security  Council 
reform.  And  two  weeks  ago,  here  in  this  very  Hall, 
that  enthusiasm  was  passed  on  to  the  current  session 
as  the  entire  Assembly  applauded  (see  A/70/PV.1)  . 
Emboldened by that enthusiasm and by my conviction 
regarding the role that Japan should play in that process, 
I will continue to work to achieve reform of the Security 
Council  with  the  cooperation  of  the  President  and 
Member  States.  Japan  hopes  to  become  a  permanent 
member  of  the  Council  and  to  make  a  commensurate 
contribution.
Here I would like to emphasize three points. First 
and foremost, Japan has remained a strictly peace-loving 
nation during the 70 years since the end of the Second 
World  War,  and  we  have  accumulated  a  successful 
record  in  our  efforts  to  foster  peace  and  prosperity 
around the world. Japan worked hard diplomatically in 
Cambodia and Timor-Leste, first by sending personnel 
to  participate  in  peacekeeping  operations  there  and 
later by providing assistance over the long term.
The 
first  of 
the 
in 
peacekeeping operations is decision-making, in which 
we  determine  what  is  to  be  done  and  where.  That  is 
three  stages 
involved 
15-29431
43/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
followed  by  the  necessary  preparations  of  personnel 
and financing and, lastly, by the process of launching 
physical operations on the ground. Japan has been able 
to help to bridge the information gaps that tend to occur 
between those stages. We have also been able to make 
a positive and major contribution by ensuring that we 
take full responsibility for our decisions and actions at 
every stage. Right now, members of an engineering unit 
of  Japan’s  self-defence  forces  are  working  around  the 
clock in South Sudan. In Kenya, experts from our ground 
self-defence force are training members of the Kenyan, 
Ugandan, Tanzanian and Rwandan armed forces on the 
best ways to operate heavy engineering equipment so as 
to deal with the problems that arise when peacekeeping 
operations  become  hopelessly  trapped  in  areas  where 
roads and bridges have been destroyed. We also recently 
made changes to our domestic legal framework that will 
enable us to contribute more broadly to peacekeeping 
operations going forward.
Secondly, Japan is a country that values ownership 
and  partnership.  We  have  been  of  the  view  for  many 
years that if we are to overcome despair and improve our 
welfare, it is important to give equal consideration both 
to the wishes and intentions of the parties concerned and 
to international cooperation. Our ultimate objective is 
to ensure that the people themselves gain the ownership 
that will enable them to determine the direction of their 
own lives, and by emphasizing that approach to arrive 
at the concept of valuing human security.
My third point is that Japan always strives to listen 
actively  to  the  voices  of the  parties  concerned.  Three 
days  ago,  for  the  third  consecutive  year,  I  hosted  the 
Japan-African  Regional  Economic  Communities 
Summit  Roundtable,  meeting  with  leaders  from  the 
African countries conerned. For the past 20 years, Japan 
has  also  hosted  the  Tokyo  International  Conference 
on  African  Development  (TICAD),  and  next  year  for 
the first time TICAD will convene in Africa, where I 
hope to be able to listen to an even richer spectrum of 
African voices. Last night I also met with leaders from 
the Pacific island countries to discuss such matters as 
observing 5 November in common as World Tsunami 
Day,  as  well  as  conducting  training  and  capacity-
building related to tsunamis.
Japan  became  a  non-permanent  member  of  the 
Security Council for the first time in 1958, two years 
after  it  was  admitted  to  membership  in  the  United 
Nations.  If  we  are  again  selected  this  year  thanks  to 
the  gracious  support  of  all  those  here,  it  will  be  our 
eleventh time serving on the Council.
More than any other country, Japan has subjected 
itself  to  review  by  its  peers.  The  three  points  I  have 
noted  today  represent  some  of  Japan’s  strengths, 
something that all here will concur with, based on the 
path  we  have  trodden  so  far.  We  intend  to  use  those 
strengths to help strengthen the United Nations. We are 
a people who have always seen in the two letters “UN” 
a certain radiance. Bearing the standard of its role as 
a proactive contributor to peace based on the principle 
of  international  cooperation,  Japan  is  determined  to 
undertake  reform  of  the  Security  Council  in  order 
to  transform  the  United  Nations  into  a  body  relevant 
to  the  twenty-first  century  and  subsequently,  as  a 
permanent member of the Security Council, to fulfil its 
responsibilities by making still greater contributions to 
world peace and prosperity.
In  conclusion,  I  look  forward  to  Members’  kind 
understanding.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of Japan for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Hamad 
Al Sabah, Prime Minister of the State of Kuwait
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the State of Kuwait.
Sheikh  Jaber  Al-Mubarak  Al-Hamad  Al  Sabah, 
Prime Minister of the State of Kuwait, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Highness Sheikh Jaber 
Al-Mubarak  Al-Hamad  Al  Sabah,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  State  of  Kuwait,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
Sheikh  Al  Sabah  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the outset, on behalf of the Government and the people 
of Kuwait, I extend our sincere congratulations to the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  his  country, 
the Kingdom of Denmark, on his election as President 
of the General Assembly at its seventieth session. We 
44/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
believe that his vast experience in political affairs will 
enable him to conduct the deliberations of this session 
wisely and ably. We wish him success in that endeavour.
We  also  note  the  successful  manner  with  which 
his  predecessor,  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  conducted  the 
deliberations during the previous session. In that regard, 
I also would like to pay tribute to the tremendous efforts 
of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  in  leading  the 
Organization  in  accordance  with  his  vision  and  ideas 
based on the purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations for the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security,  while  simultaneously  striving  to 
achieve the Charter’s goals in a sustainable manner by 
confronting the manifold risks and challenges that are 
engulfing the world.
Once  again,  we  express  our  most  sincere 
condolences  and  heartfelt  sympathy  to  the  Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia in connection with the stampede that 
resulted in numerous deaths and injuries at Mina during 
the Haj. While we pray to Allah, the Almighty, to accept 
the victims in His Grace and grant them eternal peace, 
and solace and fortitude to their bereaved families, we 
also  pray  for  the  speedy  recovery  of  the  injured.  We 
appreciate  and  are  grateful  for  the  enormous  human 
and material assets that the King, his Government and 
people of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia make available 
every  year  to  organize  and  facilitate  the  Haj  and  to 
provide every comfort to the pilgrims.
This  year, 
the 
international  community 
is 
celebrating  70  years  of  service  by  this  great  leading 
world  Organization,  during  which  it  has  worked  to 
create  a  world  in  which  humankind  can  enjoy  peace 
and  security  during  a  period  marked  by  exceptional 
circumstances — a period when the political, economic, 
social  and  humanitarian  challenges  in  the  world  have 
increased.  During  that  time,  the  United  Nations  has 
continued to provide its service in accordance with the 
aims and objectives of its Charter in order to surmount 
those growing challenges and confront them by creative 
means.  Those  undertakings  have  to  a  great  extent 
become  history  to  be  taught  to  future  generations  in 
order to demonstrate the importance and inevitability 
of  international  cooperation  and  the  capacity  of  the 
United Nations system to continue its boundless giving 
to the peoples and countries of the world.
Perhaps  one  of  the  most  outstanding  milestones 
on  the  path  to  the  success  of  the  United  Nations  is 
embodied in the adoption of the post-2015 development 
goals in the form of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  with  its  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs)  (resolution  70/1),  which  can  be  considered 
to  be  an  extension  of  the  international  community’s 
efforts  based  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). The MDGs have, by and large, achieved their 
purposes,  and  the  United  Nations  has  surpassed  its 
goals in facing up to the challenges that it is confronted 
with, and has proceeded to implement comprehensive, 
radical  solutions  in  the  areas  of  human  development 
and individual rights. That includes the goal of totally 
eliminating poverty in its multiple forms, ensuring that 
all human beings enjoy equal rights in dignity and access 
to education and health care, as well as ensuring political 
participation, gender equality, youth empowerment and 
addressing the ongoing environmental degradation.
In  that  regard,  the  State  of  Kuwait  affirm  its 
effective participation in the international partnership 
to fully implement the Sustainable Development Goals 
over  the  next  15  years.  That  is  based  on  Kuwait’s 
firm  belief  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
on Kuwait’s support for the Organization. Kuwait will 
continue  its  funding  in  appreciation  of  the  certificate 
of appreciation presented by the Secretary-General to 
Sheikh Al Sabah, the Amir of the State of Kuwait, as 
a  humanitarian  leader.  That  award  is  tantamount  to  a 
medal  of  honour  for  the  leadership  displayed  by  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Kuwait  in  saving  the 
lives  of  millions  of  people.  Indeed,  Kuwait  occupies 
first place in the provision of humanitarian assistance 
globally as a proportion of its gross national income, the 
highest percentage provided by a donor State, according 
to the Global Humanitarian Assistance Report 2014.
Furthermore, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic 
Development  continues  its  leading  role  in  providing 
development  assistance 
to  developing  countries, 
without any regard for geographical location, religious 
belief  or  nationality.  Since  its  establishment,  in  1961, 
more  than  100  countries  in  all  parts  of  the  globe 
have  benefited  from  the  Fund’s  projects,  which  total 
$18 billion. Over the next 15 years, the Kuwait Fund for 
Arab Economic Development will continue to provide 
loans  and  create  development  programmes  within  its 
operational  programmes,  which  are  based  on  its  own 
resources, including $15 billion to meet the needs and 
requirements of sustainable development.
Undoubtedly,  it  is  important  for  the  international 
community  to  work  to  consolidate  and  promote  the 
existence  of  peaceful  societies  that  are  based  on 
15-29431
45/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
justice and are free from all manifestations of violence 
and  radicalism.  That  confirms  the  principle  that 
no  sustainable  development  can  take  place  without 
security, and no security can exist without sustainable 
development.
There has been a proliferation of conflicts and civil 
wars in our world today, accompanied by the emergence 
of violence and the dangers of radicalism and terrorism, 
with their multiple causes and employing diverse means 
in a number of countries, particularly in the region of 
the Middle East. It is civilians who make up the majority 
of the victims. The international community must stand 
up  to  those  challenges,  which  threaten  international 
peace and security; it must address their causes and dry 
up the resources that fuel them.
the 
to  support 
The  Republic  of  Yemen  and  its  brotherly  people 
face  serious  challenges  owing  to  the  intransigence  of 
the  Houthi  militias  and  their  insistence  on  breaching 
their commitments and on threatening the security and 
stability of our region and our countries. That situation 
requires  strong  action 
legitimate 
Government  of  Yemen  and  to  achieve  peace  and 
stability  in  our  region.  We  would  like  to  emphasize 
the  need  to  commit  to  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council 
initiative,  comply  with  the  outcome  of  the  National 
Reconciliation Conference and respond to the efforts of 
the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Yemen 
in  that  regard.  The  State  of  Kuwait  has  not  ignored 
the humanitarian needs of the Yemeni people. Kuwait 
announced,  upon  instructions  from  His  Highness 
Sheikh Al-Sabah, the donation of $100 million to meet 
the needs of Yemen.
In  Syria,  as  that  disaster  enters  its  fifth  year,  the 
scope  of  humanitarian  suffering  is  exacerbating  the 
multiple other parameters of the crisis. The number of 
dead and injured are rising, and the number of refugees 
and internally displaced persons continues to increase. 
The  flow  of  Syrian  migrants  and  refugees  to  Europe 
attests to the magnitude of the crisis. We have warned 
against the dire consequences of the situation on Syria, 
the Syrian people, their neighbours and the entire world. 
In  view  of  the  aforementioned,  the  State  of  Kuwait 
reiterates  its  firm  and  principled  position,  namely, 
that the solution to that disaster can be achieved only 
through peaceful, political means, as opposed to other 
means, whose price would be paid by our brothers in 
Syria. In that regard, we welcome the endeavours of the 
United Nations and those of the Special Envoy of the 
Secretary-General  for  Syria,  Mr.  Staffan  de  Mistura, 
which seek to mobilize efforts to implement the Geneva 
communiqué (S/2012/522, annex), issued in 2012, aimed 
at establishing a transitional Government that is fully 
functional, and at maintaining the territorial integrity 
of  Syria,  preserving  the  coherence  of  Syrian  society 
and meeting the needs for dignity of the Syrian people.
Within the framework of supporting international 
efforts  to  alleviate  the  humanitarian  suffering  in 
Syria, since 2013 the State of Kuwait has hosted three 
successive  international  donor  conferences  to  lend 
support  to  efforts  to  improve  the  situation  in  that 
country. The pledges made at those three conferences 
amounted to approximately $7.15 billion, of which the 
State  of  Kuwait  contributed  $1.3  billion.  The  bulk  of 
the  money  pledged  has  been  delivered  to  the  United 
Nations  specialized  agencies  and  other  international, 
governmental  and  non-governmental  organizations 
in  the  humanitarian  affairs  field.  The  remainder  of 
those contributions has been distributed through local 
charitable institutions working in the humanitarian and 
development fields.
With regard to the situation in Libya, we are closely 
following  the  agreement  announced  in  the  Moroccan 
city  of  Skhirat  by  the  Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General  for  Libya,  aimed  at  forming  a 
national consensus Government that would put an end 
to the fighting. We look forward to a positive response 
to  that  initiative  from  our  brothers  in  Libya,  so  that 
they can stop the bloodshed, preserve the sovereignty 
and territorial integrity of their homeland and restore 
security and stability throughout Libya.
Our  region  faces  exceptionally  delicate  dangers 
that threaten its security and stability. They stem from 
terrorist  and  violent  groups  that  commit,  supposedly 
in  the  name  of  Islam,  criminal  acts  rejected  by  all 
religions. The brutal crimes committed by the so-called 
Daesh/Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant have spread 
death  and  destruction,  particularly  in  Iraq  and  Syria, 
and are a threat to international peace and security. A 
much-needed international coalition has been formed to 
tackle those terrorists. The State of Kuwait took part in 
the establishment of the coalition by providing logistical 
support.  The  practices  of  that  terrorist  organization 
have extended to the State of Kuwait. Daesh committed 
a cowardly terrorist act, targeting a mosque during the 
holy  month  of  Ramadan,  which  killed  and  injured  a 
number of our citizens. The national unity and cohesion 
between the people and the leadership of Kuwait made 
those who wished Kuwait ill miss their mark, thereby 
46/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
reaffirming a long, honourable national history that has 
witnessed floods of sacrifices for the sake of the unity 
and stability of the State of Kuwait.
In the humanitarian field, the State of Kuwait has 
also responded to the humanitarian needs of the Iraqi 
people. Kuwait announced the donation of $200 million 
to assist our Iraqi brothers in alleviating the suffering 
caused  by  the  brutal  practices  of  the  Daesh  terrorist 
group.  Work  is  ongoing  to  disburse  that  donation,  in 
cooperation  with  the  competent  parties  in  Iraq  and 
international  organizations.  We  reaffirm  our  support 
for all the measures taken by the Iraqi Government to 
preserve the security, stability and territorial integrity 
of  Iraq.  In  that  regard,  the  State  of  Kuwait  reiterates 
its  firm  and  principled  position  rejecting  all  forms  of 
terrorism,  extremism  and  intolerance,  irrespective 
of  their  causes  or  motives  and  whatever  their  sources 
or  the  identity  of  their  perpetrators.  Kuwait  stresses 
that  promoting  a  culture  of  tolerance  and  coexistence 
among peoples and nations is among the top priorities 
in  the  approach  that  it  follows  in  its  internal  and 
external  policies.  Such  policies  are  anchored  in  the 
tolerant  Islamic  sharia  law  and  in  the  importance 
Kuwait  attaches  to  maintaining  the  links  between 
development,  security  and  human  rights,  as  it  works 
to  develop  a  global  strategy  to  combat  terrorism  and 
achieve international peace and security.
The international and regional efforts that seek to 
lay  the  foundation  for  peace  in  the  Middle  East  face 
many impediments as a result of Israel’s intransigence. 
Israel  continues  its  illicit  expansionist  policies  by 
building  illegal  settlements  on  occupied  Palestinian 
territory  and  by  detaining  thousands  of  Palestinians 
in  its  prisons  and  detention  centres.  Its  repeated  acts 
of aggression, including the attack on Gaza during the 
past year, has left in its wake unprecedented destruction 
and loss of life and property. That is in addition to its 
continued imposition of an illegal and inhumane siege 
on Gaza, and the escalation of its attacks on the holy 
Al-Aqsa Mosque and Muslims there. Those attacks are 
in violation of all humanitarian standards, international 
laws  and  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions. 
That makes it incumbent upon the United Nations, and 
the  Security  Council  in  particular,  to  carry  out  their 
responsibilities  and  continue  to  put  pressure  on  and 
compel Israel, at all levels, to accept the resolutions of 
international  legitimacy,  grant  the  Palestinian  people 
their  legitimate  political  rights,  and  recognize  their 
independent status and sovereignty over their territory, 
with East Jerusalem as their capital, in accordance with 
the borders of 4 June 1967 and in line with the principle 
of land for peace, the Quartet’s road map and the Arab 
Peace Initiative.
In  the  same  regional  framework,  the  State  of 
Kuwait  welcomes  Security  Council  resolution  2231 
(2015),  which  endorsed  the  comprehensive  agreement 
on the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action concluded 
between  the  five  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council,  plus  Germany,  and  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran. The agreement was the result of diplomatic efforts 
over a number of years aimed at addressing the Iranian 
nuclear  situation.  The  State  of  Kuwait  hopes  that  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran will continue to cooperate and 
fully implement the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
and  adhere  to  its  responsibilities  under  the  Treaty  on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and 
the relevant Security Council resolutions. In addition, 
Kuwait hopes that Iran will respond to the efforts of the 
countries of the region to lay the foundations of good 
neighbourly  relations  based  on  cooperation,  mutual 
respect and non-interference in internal affairs, and that 
it will end its occupation of the three Emirati islands, 
all of which will contribute to reducing tensions and to 
security and stability in the region.
In  that  context,  we  call  upon  Israel  to  accede  to 
the  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  and  to  subject  all  of  its 
nuclear  facilities  to  the  inspection  and  supervision  of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency, in compliance 
with  the  resolution  adopted  at  the  1995  NPT  Review 
and  Extension  Conference,  which  called  for 
the 
establishment of a zone free of nuclear weapons and all 
weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
adherence  of  the  State  of  Kuwait  to  the  multilateral 
international  system,  as  well  as  to  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  I 
would like to underscore our belief in the importance 
and  necessity  of  exerting  all  efforts  to  ensure  the 
continuity  and  generosity  of  our  great  Organization 
through  the  fulfilment  of  all  States’  obligations  and 
responsibilities, as pledged in international conventions 
and  conferences.  That  will,  in  turn,  contribute  to 
finding  just  and  fair  solutions  to  global  threats  and 
challenges, while according due attention to the higher 
goal of maintaining international peace and security.
15-29431
47/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Kuwait for the statement he has just made.
His Highness Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Hamad 
Al  Sabah,  Prime  Minister  of  the  State  of  Kuwait, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Matteo Renzi, President of the 
Council of Ministers of the Republic of Italy
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Republic of Italy.
Mr.  Matteo  Renzi,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Republic of Italy, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Matteo Renzi, President 
of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Italy, and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Renzi (Italy) (spoke in Italian; interpretation 
provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  with  gratitude  and 
pride that I come here today to express the voice of the 
Italian people, a generous and responsible people, who 
every day have shown their commitment to saving the 
lives  of  hundreds  of  their  brothers  and  sisters  in  the 
heart of the Mediterranean region.
This  Hall  calls  for  profound  thinking  rather  than 
slogans. In every part of the world, political life is more 
and more fixated on the present. It is tied to discussions 
shaped  by  24/7  news  stations,  the  Internet  and  social 
media.  Let  me  be  clear.  I  belong  to  a  generation  for 
whom social media represent an extraordinary tool, a 
horizon of freedom that allows us to change lives and 
prospects.  There  is  nevertheless  the  risk  of  reducing 
that  horizon  to  a  discussion  of  the  next  opinion  poll 
or tweet. I think we should reject what has become a 
dictatorship  of  the  moment,  and  take  the  time  to  pay 
homage to this Hall for its efforts in engaging in more 
meaningful reflection.
I  am  thinking  of  my  country,  which,  on  a  map, 
appears to be shaped like a bridge, a bridge connecting 
North  and  South,  Europe  and  Africa  and  East  and 
West, a bridge that spans from the Middle East to the 
Balkans.  Because  of  its  geography,  and  especially  its 
culture, Italy has always been a kind of extraordinary 
cultural  laboratory  affected  by  influences  of  every 
kind. That is the reason that we were the first country 
in Europe to grasp the momentous dimension of what is 
happening in the Mediterranean region. From the very 
beginning — even in this Hall last year — we have said 
that the refugee question is not a question of numbers 
(see A/69/PV.9). The problem of migration is not one of 
organization or statistics. The problem is fear, the fear 
that runs through our societies and that we must take 
seriously if we wish to defeat it.
In  Greek  mythology,  Phobos  was  the  god  of  fear, 
able  to  paralyse  the  best  armies  and  cause  the  most 
easily fought battles to be lost. That is why the glorious 
and ancient city of Sparta built a great temple to Phobos 
and did everything to gain his favour. Europe was born 
to defeat fear and replace it with the ideal of courage, 
peace,  cooperation  and  civilization.  And  for  a  long 
time,  Europe  embodied  that  ideal.  Over  the  past  70 
years,  our  continent  has  left  behind  centuries  of  war 
and civil war. Europe had become a true miracle. For 
those like me, who as a young man witnessed the fall 
of the Berlin Wall and found in that event a reason to 
devote my life to public service, to see new walls going 
up today is intolerable.
Europe  was  reborn  to  tear  down  walls,  not  to 
build  them.  That  is  why  Italy  is  on  the  front  line  in 
rescuing  thousands  of  migrants  fleeing  from  war  and 
despair.  For  that  same  reason,  I  had  the  privilege  of 
accompanying  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  on 
one  of  our  ships  currently  participating  in  the  rescue 
operations.  Addressing  migratory  flows  requires  the 
capacity  to  respond  to  that  emergency  with  a  global 
and  comprehensive  strategy.  In  that  vein,  Italy  has 
partnered  with  African  countries  through  a  broad 
array of initiatives, and in particular with the African 
Union, a cooperation about which I an the opportunity 
to speak recently at the third International Conference 
on  Financing  for  Development,  held  in  Addis  Ababa, 
which produced the Addis Ababa Action Agenda.
In the 70 years since the birth of the Charter of the 
United Nations in San Francisco, the Organization has 
learned how crucial its role is. It has had the wisdom to 
recognize its mistakes and the strength to correct them 
by writing a new chapter that will ensure a better future 
for all of our children. I think that it will take an effort 
on the part of everyone, and Italy will not shirk from its 
responsibilities.
That is why we decided to present our candidature 
to  the  Security  Council  for  a  non-permanent  seat  for 
2017-2018, with the ideal in mind of building the peace 
48/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
of tomorrow. We believe that it is the job of each one of 
us here today to create an alternative to the culture of 
violence and nihilism exemplified by the recent crises 
in the Mediterranean, the Middle East, Europe and at 
the borders of Europe. I am thinking, for example, of the 
consolidation of the ceasefire in Ukraine. I am thinking 
of the great joy with which we welcomed the news of 
the agreement between the United States and Cuba, one 
of  extraordinary  historic  proportions.  I  am  thinking 
of the hope that each of us now has as a consequence 
of  the  agreement  with  Iran  on  that  country’s  nuclear 
programme, which begins a new hopeful phase.
While we are committed to the implementation of 
that agreement, we also firmly reiterate the right of the 
people  and  the  State  of  Israel  to  exist.  Only  through 
dialogue and negotiation will we be able to find a future 
for  coming  generations.  Moreover,  on  the  delicate 
question of Israel and Palestine, there is no alternative 
to dialogue. It is essential to return to the negotiating 
table, with the goal of reaching a solution based on two 
States living side-by-side in peace and security.
This  open  debate  of  the  General  Assembly  has 
been characterized by many discussions on Syria. All 
of us have acknowledged and felt, on a very personal 
level,  the  failure  that  years  of  inertia  has  produced. 
We  believe  that  the  only  way  out  of  that  quagmire  is 
through  a  political  solution  that  leads  to  a  process  of 
genuine transition. That will work only if we have the 
courage to stare reality in the face and acknowledge the 
presence of an enemy of unprecedented danger at our 
doors,  namely,  Daesh,  the  embodiment  of  extremism 
and  terrorism.  Through  its  Carabinieri  corps,  which 
plays an important role in Italy and the world, Italy is 
proud to lead the coalition for training the Iraqi police 
force. We know that the work of the security forces is 
decisive  in  ensuring  daily  security,  enabling  a  family 
to return home without incident and enabling a mother 
to  reassure  her  children.  We  will  continue  working 
with the global coalition to counter ISIL, in particular 
the United States and Saudi Arabia, and will maintain 
our  leadership  role  in  the  working  group  to  counter 
financing for Daesh.
At the same time, we underscore that Daesh is not 
limited to the specific region of the Middle East, even 
if  there  is  an  extraordinary  mosaic  of  pluralism  and 
beauty there. Daesh may reaffirm itself with strength in 
Africa, starting with Libya. From this rostrum, I renew 
my appeal to all the parties who hope for peace and a 
unified nation in Libya. We must unite our forces. Our 
Libyan  brothers  and  sisters  must  know  that  they  are 
not alone, that the General Assembly has not forgotten 
them.  Italy  is  ready  to  collaborate  with  a  national 
unity  Government  and  to  restore  cooperation  in  key 
areas  so  as  to  give  Libya  back  its  future.  If  the  new 
Libyan Government asks us, Italy is ready to take on 
the leadership role in a mechanism, authorized by the 
international  community,  to  assist  in  the  stabilization 
of the country.
There  are  many  reasons  for  our  role  in  the  fight 
against terrorism. It is a battle for values, a battle for 
culture. The terrorists want us to die. Failing that, they 
want us to live under their rules. That is why the battle 
that  we  are  waging  is  a  battle  against  darkness  and 
fear, because fear is the playground of terrorism. The 
first area in which we see that is that of culture. When 
terrorists  attack  Palmyra  or  the  Bardo  Museum  in 
Tunisia, or a school or a university, from Asia to Africa, 
they are not attacking the past, they are targeting our 
future.
Italy  is  the  country  where  the  culture  of  the 
conservation  of  cultural  assets  was  born.  Proud  of 
our roots and of our Renaissance, we have the highest 
concentration of UNESCO cultural heritage sites in the 
world. That is why, together with our partner countries 
and  friends,  we  aspire  to  be  the  guardians  of  culture 
throughout  the  world,  carrying  out  concrete  actions, 
both here in New York and at UNESCO headquarters 
in  Paris,  through  United4Heritage,  the  Blue  Helmets 
of  culture.  On  the  basis  of  a  model  developed  in  our 
country,  we  are  proposing  the  establishment  of  an 
international  task  force,  with  military  and  civilian 
members,  for  operations  to  protect  and  rebuild  art 
historical sites. That is our identity. That task force will 
be available to UNESCO, and it could be deployed in the 
framework of United Nations peacekeeping operations.
Let  us  not  forget  that  even  Europe  runs  the  risk, 
in  the  absence  of  a  major  educational  project  that 
would show that the evil seed of terrorism is growing 
on  European  soil  as  well.  Let  us  not  forget  that  what 
has  happened  in  recent  months  and  weeks  —  from 
Charlie Hebdo in Paris to what took place in Belgium 
and in Denmark — involved women and men born in 
European  countries,  raised  and  educated  in  European 
countries  and  yet  transformed  into  terrorists  who 
sought  to  undermine  human  rights  and  the  very 
raison  d’être  of  our  continent.  I  think,  therefore,  that 
it is important that we all succeed in this educational 
challenge  together  and  that  our  peacekeeping  model, 
15-29431
49/51
A/70/PV.16 
29/09/2015
which President Obama noted yesterday and for which 
we thank him, can serve as an established model that 
can  be  in  deployed  in  various  countries,  such  as  is 
happening now in Afghanistan. I wish to recall Italy’s 
commitment  to  honouring  the  women  and  men  who 
have  sacrificed  their  lives  for  our  collective  security, 
in particular in that country. We are proud of the work 
of  our  soldiers  and  civilians  aimed  at  supporting  the 
Afghan Government on the road to peace and prosperity.
The  Security  Council  is  at  the  centre  of  the 
challenge. That is not a bureaucratic issue, but rather a 
political one. The Uniting for Consensus group is ready 
to continue to work with all members.
Human rights, which are today under attack, are for 
us a reference point at every level. I am thinking about 
Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), on women and 
peace and security. I am thinking of resolution 69/186, 
adopted by the General Assembly last December, with its 
moratorium on the death penalty, an issue on which we 
will tirelessly work. I also recall the words that the Holy 
Father  Pope  Francis  pronounced  here  (see  A/70/PV.3) 
and  at  the  United  States  Congress.  The  resolutions 
against  forced  and  early  marriage  (resolution  68/148) 
and  against  female  genital  mutilation  (resolution 
67/146) are clear signs of the shared commitment of our 
world community.
The  deep  connection  between  peace  and  security 
and between human rights and development is also the 
message of the current Universal Exposition in Milan. 
The slogan of Expo 2015, “Feeding the Planet: Energy 
for Life”, is a message that brings together many of the 
aspirations of the General Assembly, in particular that 
of promoting sustainable agriculture. I wish to make a 
commitment, especially to the African countries, that 
we will never stop working in that direction, bolstered 
by  Italian  know-how  and  the  desire  to  work  together. 
Guaranteeing  access  to  food  for  all,  fighting  world 
hunger,  changing  consumption  patterns,  ensuring 
the  centrality  of  women  as  central  stakeholders  in 
agriculture, defending smallholder farmers, as well as 
easing tensions and conflicts caused by the degradation 
of arable land and the scarcity of water for irrigation, 
are not secondary issues.
The legacy of Expo Milan is assured by the Charter 
of  Milan  and  by  the  commitments  of  each  of  us  to 
fight climate change. Italy stands alongside Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and is mobilizing the necessary 
resources  to  ensure  that  the  conferences  in  Lima  and 
Paris are successful.
With 
the  adoption  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1), 
Italy 
has  accepted  the  challenge  of  the  five  Ps  —  people, 
prosperity,  partnership,  planet  and  peace,  which  we 
recognize and which inspire our action for the future. 
But  let  me  say  that  Italy  intends  to  contribute  with 
strength,  in  particular  in  those  battles  in  which  some 
countries  seem  to  be  alone.  In  the  next  few  weeks  in 
Milan, we will welcome our partners, the small island 
developing  States,  which  are  considered  small  States 
but are actually great States for their value, to the events 
on  climate-change  adaptation  that  will  take  place  in 
mid-October at Expo Milan, and we will bring a large 
delegation to Venice, where we will show participants, 
in one of the most beautiful artistic cities in the world, 
how we are working to combat the risks associated with 
the presence of high waters and the lack of attention on 
the part of the international community.
In conclusion, as a candidate for a non-permanent 
seat on the Security Council, Italy wants the values we 
have discussed to occupy a central place in the Security 
Council. But I do not want us to think of those values 
in an abstract way. I do not want us to forget that what 
brings us here is not a document. It is a face; it is many 
faces.
In  Italian  schools,  our  children  learn  about  the 
strong  connection  among  the  ancient  civilizations  of 
the Mediterranean, Africa and the Middle East. Today, 
those children are not just extras in a movie. They are 
the reason why we are here today. We believe that of all 
the  values  we  teach  our  children  at  school  we  cannot 
forget that the first value is life.
Faced  with  the  migration  crisis,  many  of  us  were 
deeply  moved  this  summer  by  the  photo  of  a  little 
boy named Aylan. He was a child from Kobani, who, 
together with his older brother, fell asleep without ever 
being  able  to  see  the  future.  He  was  photographed, 
dead,  on  the  beach  at  Bodrum.  We  must  not  limit 
our  commitment  to  the  emotion  of  the  moment.  We 
must  bear  that  image  in  mind  and  commit  to  doing 
our best. Many children have died in the heart of the 
Mediterranean. They died on the ships launched in the 
direction of Europe by traffickers, the new slave traders 
of today. However, together with all of those children 
who are no longer with us, I want to recall the names 
of  children  whom  no  one  talks  about:  Yambambi, 
50/51 
15-29431
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.16
Salvatore,  Idris  Ibrahim  and  Francesca  Marina.  They 
are  some  of  the  children  who  were  born  on  the  ships 
of  the  Italian  Marines  and  Coast  Guard,  which  saved 
thousands of women, and in some cases enabled them 
to give birth on those ships. I wish to thank my fellow 
citizens  for  the  extraordinary  work  that  they  have 
carried out. I want their names to be remembered with 
the names of those who did not make it. Their heroic 
actions should serve as an admonishment for all of us. 
Politics can be restored to dignity when we are aware of 
the enormity of our challenges. The old Europe, born in 
the name of courage, does not give in to fear. Italy will 
proudly do its part.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of 
Italy for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Matteo  Renzi,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  of  the  Republic  of  Italy,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 3.05 p.m.
15-29431
51/51
