United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
17th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 29 September 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.17
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Address by Mr. Serzh Sargsyan, President of the 
Republic of Armenia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Armenia.
Mr.  Serzh  Sargsyan,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Armenia, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Serzh  Sargsyan,  President  of  the 
Republic of Armenia, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
Mr.  Sargsyan  (spoke  in  Armenian;  English  text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  I  congratulate  you, 
Mr. President, on your election to the post of President 
of the General Assembly at its seventieth session. I am 
confident that, under your able leadership, this jubilee 
session will meet our many hopes and expectations.
I  also  congratulate  all  of  us  on  the  seventieth 
anniversary of  the United Nations.  The  establishment 
of the Organization is one of the greatest achievements 
of  humankind,  a  step  that  has  consolidated  nations 
around its shared aspirations and principles. The past 
70  years  have  been  characterized  by  very  important 
positive  developments,  namely,  an  end  was  put  to 
colonialism, racial discrimination and apartheid. Many 
people  around  the  world  exercised  their  right  to  self-
determination  and  took  charge  of  their  own  fates  by 
establishing  and  building  independent  States  of  their 
own,  thus  increasing  the  number  of  United  Nations 
States Members from 51 to today’s 193.
Amid  all  those  achievements,  we  recognize  that 
the  world  currently  faces  new  challenges,  such  as 
terrorism,  extremism,  intolerance,  economic  crises, 
climate  change,  human  trafficking,  organ  trafficking 
and  trafficking  in  drugs  and  arms,  a  migration  crisis 
and  others.  The  list  of  those  challenges  is  long.  The 
profound  need  to  struggle  against  them  obliges  us  to 
resolutely reiterate our joint commitment to the mission 
of  the  Organization  and  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.
Last year, on the eve of the centennial of the Armenian 
genocide, I expressed from this rostrum our gratitude to 
the nations that had recognized the Armenian genocide, 
and I named each State individually (see A/69/PV.6). I 
called upon the international community to strengthen 
the  struggle  against  the  recurrence  of  the  crime  of 
genocide recognizing and condemning its occurrence. 
Today, from this same rostrum, I would like to thank 
Pope Francis and to acknowledge the historic mass he 
served.  I  also  wish  to  thank  the  European  Parliament 
and to recall the resolution it adopted. In addition, the 
well-known  statement  by  the  German  President  will, 
believe  me,  henceforth  be  found  in  the  annals  of  our 
nation’s history.
In  that  connection,  I  thank  the  legislative  bodies 
of Austria, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Luxembourg and the 
Netherlands,  as  well  as  numerous  provincial  and  city 
councils and hundreds of political and non-governmental 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29437 (E)
*1529437*
A/70/PV.17 
29/09/2015
organizations.  I  also  thank  the  Presidents  of  Russia, 
France, Cyprus and Serbia, as well as the delegations 
of numerous other countries that came on 24 April to 
pay  tribute  to  the  victims  of  the  Armenian  genocide 
in Yerevan. Our determination to keep the prevention 
of  the  crime  of  genocide  on  the  international  agenda 
is demonstrated by the resolutions that we periodically 
submit  to  the  Human  Rights  Council.  The  latest 
resolution to that effect was adopted this year. Building 
further  upon  that,  just  a  few  days  ago,  the  Assembly 
adopted resolution 69/323, establishing 9 December as 
the International Day of Commemoration and Dignity 
of  the  Victims  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide  and  of  the 
Prevention of This Crime.
The peaceful resolution of the Nagorno Karabakh 
problem remains one of the most salient issues in our 
region. I must note that the aggressive policy pursued 
by  Azerbaijan  has  resulted  in  the  absence  of  any 
meaningful  progress  in  the  negotiations  to  reach  a 
settlement of the conflict, and the situation has drifted 
towards  increasing  tension.  The  dictatorial  regime 
of  that  country  has  used  disgraceful  repression  as  an 
instrument  to  strangle  the  people’s  wrath,  as  the  oil-
based  economy  obviously  falters.  Even  that  policy  it 
now considers to be ineffective. Now it requires images 
from the line of contact in order to divert the attention 
of its own public. I would like to draw the Assembly’s 
attention  to  the  fact  that  Azerbaijan,  besides  various 
other provocative actions, has now started to use heavy 
artillery,  firing  at  the  peaceful  settlements  of  the 
bordering districts of both the Republic of Armenia and 
the Nagorno Karabakh Republic.
Just a few days ago, in the border area of Armenia, 
three women fell victim to an Azerbaijani bombardment 
in their houses and in their gardens, where they were 
peacefully working. The question that comes to mind is 
whether any reasonable person can see any valid logic 
in that cruelty. It is obvious to us that the Azerbaijani 
leadership has irreversibly lost both its sense of reality 
and  its  willingness  to  abide  by  the  norms  of  human 
conduct.
Azerbaijan  completely  disdains  the  five  joint 
statements issued by the Presidents of the United States 
of  America,  Russia  and  France,  as  well  as  the  efforts 
of  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe  Minsk  Group.  If  that  country  continues  its 
aggressive  policy,  Armenia  will  have  no  other  choice 
but  to  take  the  necessary  legal,  political  and  military 
steps to allow the Republic of Armenia and the Republic 
of Nagorno Karabakh to develop in security and peace.
Although  it  is  obvious  to  everybody  which  party 
has instigated and continues to instigate the ceasefire 
violations, I would still like to recall some facts. Is it not 
strange that, for years now, Azerbaijan has stubbornly 
refused to withdraw its snipers and establish an incident 
investigation mechanism, as proposed by the co-Chairs 
of the Minsk Group? The question that arises is, what is 
Azerbaijan afraid of?
Is it not strange that, during the European Games 
hosted  by  Azerbaijan,  when  the  Government  needed 
an  image  of  stability,  almost  no  shooting  incidents 
occurred at the border, while immediately after those 
Games  shooting  incidents  reoccurred  on  a  prolonged 
basis? I do not expect members of the Assembly to buy 
the assertions of any one of the parties, but I still hope 
that  everyone  will  exercise  common  sense.  Is  it  not 
strange that in the twenty-first century our neighbour, 
day  in  and  day  out,  relentlessly  and  indefatigably 
takes  pride  in  its  excessive  accumulation  of  arms 
and  the  manifold  expansion  of  its  military  budget?  It 
stubbornly  continues  making  bellicose  threats  that  it 
intends to renew military hostilities, and that is done at 
the highest level, that of the head of State.
I 
think 
that  everyone  now  understands  why 
Armenia  has  consistently  urged  the  international 
community to make statements that are not general, but 
unambiguous, with regard to the party to whom they are 
referring during discussions of the ceasefire violations. 
We must understand that to stifle early-warning signals 
with  regard  to  threats  to  peace  and  security  can  have 
catastrophic repercussions.
Today,  we  are  witnessing  unspeakable  barbarity 
taking place in the Middle East. Religious intolerance 
has  brought  irreversible  consequences  in  its  wake. 
We have been most directly affected by the atrocities 
unfolding there, since they have led to the destruction 
of  parts  of  Armenia’s  spiritual  and  cultural  heritage 
and  its  artefacts  and  to  the  murder  and  expulsion  of 
numerous  Armenians  residing  in  Iraq  and  Syria.  The 
Armenian community of Syria, with its centuries-long 
history,  shares  and  experiences  all  the  hardships  that 
the  Syrian  people  are  undergoing  in  these  difficult 
times.  We  are  trying  to  aid  the  refuges  to  the  best  of 
our abilities. Up to now, Armenia has hosted more than 
16,000  refugees  from  Syria.  That  figure  shows  that 
Armenia is one of the leading host countries, together 
with the European host countries.
2/26 
15-29437
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.17
Armenians  are  well  acquainted  with  the  fate  of 
refugees,  of  the  exiled  and  expelled.  The  Armenian 
genocide  would  have  claimed  many  more  lives  and 
the  survivors  would  have  gone  through  much  greater 
hardship  if  a  number  of  nations,  our  friends,  had  not 
lent us a helping hand in those difficult times. Today 
it  is  Germany,  Sweden  and  a  few  other  countries 
that  deserve  praise  for  the  humanism  that  they  have 
displayed. They have provided hundreds of thousands 
of  refugees  with  safe  haven,  and  have  reiterated  that 
that assistance was the right thing to do from both the 
legal and the humanist perspectives.
the  way 
This year, we all witnessed how joint and adequate 
actions  paved 
to  mitigating  a  difficult 
international issue. A historic agreement was reached 
on  the  nuclear  programme  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran, an immediate neighbour of ours. That critical deal 
will  undoubtedly  contribute  to  the  global  settlement 
of conflict situations and the strengthening of mutual 
trust. Extended and consistent political and diplomatic 
efforts made the agreement possible.
All  that  proves  that,  when  there  is  a  political 
will  to  bridge  disagreements  and  embrace  a  spirit  of 
cooperation,  solutions  can  indeed  be  found  to  the 
most  complicated  issues.  From  this  rostrum,  I  would 
like  once  again  to  stress  the  importance  of  using 
diplomacy, especially to do away with closed borders. 
Our  neighbours  have  subjected  Armenia  to  an  illegal 
blockade,  and  we  deem  such  an  improvident  policy 
to  be  unacceptable,  a  policy  that  in  the  twenty-first 
century  establishes  artificial  obstacles  that  disrupt 
intercultural,  human-to-human  and  trade  contacts. 
In  that  context,  we  highly  value  the  periodic  reviews 
carried out under the framework of the United Nations 
Conferences on Landlocked Developing Countries. We 
stand ready to invest further efforts in that endeavour, 
including  by  hosting  intermediate  workshops  on  that 
topic in our country.
To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  join  all  speakers 
who  have  called  for  joint  efforts  to  combat  darkness, 
atrocities  and  hatred.  No  country  is  too  great  or  too 
small for that cause. Every single one has a role to play. 
Armenia stands ready to make its contribution to that 
joint struggle.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Armenia 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Serzh  Sargsyan,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Armenia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, President 
of the United Republic of Tanzania
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  of  the  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania.
Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the 
United Republic of Tanzania, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of 
the United Republic of Tanzania, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
Mr. Kikwete: I join those who have spoken before 
me in congratulating you, Mr. President, on your well-
deserved election to preside over the General Assembly 
at its seventieth session. Your election is a fitting tribute 
to your distinguished political career, having served as 
Foreign Minister and Finance Minister of your country, 
and recently as Speaker of the Danish Parliament. It is 
also a reflection of the high regard that the Assembly 
has  for  your  great  country,  Denmark.  I  would  like  to 
assure you of my country’s full support and cooperation 
in discharging your duties and responsibilities.
I  also  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  your  predecessor, 
Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic  of  Uganda,  for  the  outstanding  manner  in 
which he steered the affairs of the Assembly at its sixty-
ninth session. Indeed, that great son of the African soil 
has done us proud.
I  also  wish  to  express  a  well-deserved  word  of 
appreciation  for  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
and  his  staff  for  their  dedicated  service  and  efforts 
in  promoting  the  ideals  and  principles  of  the  United 
Nations.  I  also  commend  you,  Mr.  President,  and 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
ninth  session,  as  well  as  the  Secretary-General,  for 
the  excellent  work  culminating  in  the  adoption  of 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  (resolution  70/1) 
and  the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
with their 169 targets. We sincerely hope that reliable 
mechanisms will ensure the availability of the means of 
implementation and follow-up. It was the failure to have 
15-29437
3/26
A/70/PV.17 
29/09/2015
such mechanisms that was responsible for the shortfalls 
in the implementation of the Millennium Development 
Goals.
My delegation welcomes the theme of this session, 
“The  United  Nations  at  70:  the  road  ahead  for  peace, 
security and human rights”. The United Nations at 70 
not only has withstood the test of time, but has evolved 
and  become  a  strong  Organization.  I  am  glad  we  all 
agree  that  much  has  been  achieved  in  the  past  seven 
decades. Equally, we agree that not everything that the 
founding  fathers  envisaged  the  United  Nations  could 
do  has  been  done  satisfactorily.  The  United  Nations 
has  succeeded  in  preventing  another  world  war,  but 
the challenges of preserving world peace and security 
remain.  Inter-  and  intra-State  conflicts  and  wars  are 
many  and  on  the  increase.  Terrorism  has  become  a 
serious  global  threat.  There  are  still  too  many  people 
who  live  in  conditions  of  abject  poverty,  squalor  and 
deprivation in a world of unprecedented wealth.
today 
there 
Unlike  70  years  ago, 
is  better 
understanding,  cooperation  and  partnership  among 
countries  and  organizations  in  preserving  peace  and 
security. It is easier today for the world to come together 
to promote peace than it was before. As a matter of fact, 
most of the conflicts we are witnessing today are being 
handled, first and foremost, by regional and subregional 
organizations. The United Nations therefore must seek 
to forge strategic partnerships with such organizations. 
By  taking  advantage  of  the  knowledge  they  have  of 
the  history  and  nature  of  the  crises,  key  players  and 
cultures  of  the  people  involved,  it  would  be  more 
successful in managing and resolving conflicts. Where 
and when appropriate, the United Nations should invest 
in  strengthening  the  capacity  of  those  organizations 
and  their  member  States  in  anticipating,  detecting, 
preventing, managing and resolving conflicts. I am of 
the view that such capacity is urgently needed in Africa.
We highly commend the President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session  and  the  Chair  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  reform  of  the 
Security Council for their efforts. It is the wish of the 
majority of Member States to see an acceleration of the 
negotiation process during the current session. For the 
Security Council to remain what it was 70 years ago is 
incomprehensible  and,  to  say  the  least,  unacceptable. 
It  is  high  time  that  the  demands  of  the  majority  of 
the  Member  States  be  heard  and  heeded.  We  must  be 
mindful  of  the  fact  that  the  credibility  of  the  United 
Nations  depends  upon  a  more  agile,  representative 
and  responsive  Security  Council.  Let  us  all  muster 
the  courage  and  political  will  to  accomplish  that 
long-overdue  task  for  the  sake  of  the  Organization. 
In  the  meantime,  we  must  continue  to  support  the 
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly.
Peacekeeping  operations  remain  one  of  the  most 
dependable instruments for promoting world peace and 
security.  I  believe  that  they  will  remain  so  for  many 
years to come. I am told that there are approximately 
125,000 men and women deployed in 16 peacekeeping 
missions  across  the  world.  Tanzania  is  proud  to  have 
contributed  1,322  of  those  gallant  people,  who  often 
serve  under  challenging  conditions.  Sometimes  they 
are compelled to serve in places where there is little or 
no peace to keep. Tanzania stands ready to contribute 
more, whenever and wherever requested to do so.
We  cannot  talk  about  the  security  challenges  of 
today  without  mentioning  terrorism  —  a  security 
challenge  about  which  the  United  Nations  and  the 
entire  international  community  must  remain  vigilant 
in the coming decade. While reiterating our strongest 
condemnation  of  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and 
manifestations,  we  believe  that  there  is  an  urgent 
need  to  bolster  efforts  at  all  levels  for  fighting  that 
scourge.  Collectively,  we  must  aspire  to  improve  our 
preparedness, collaboration and response to the threat 
we face.
The Ebola outbreak in West Africa in the past year 
is a stark reminder of how dangerous epidemics can be 
and how vulnerable we are as nations and peoples. More 
than  11,000  people  lost  their  lives,  including  citizens 
of  the  United  States  and  Spain,  and  approximately 
28,000  were  infected.  The  economies  of  Liberia, 
Guinea  and  Sierra  Leone  were  devastated.  Economic 
activities and services almost ground to a halt, thereby 
causing enormous losses to the economies of the three 
countries.  The  World  Bank  estimates  that  they  lost 
about $2.2 billion in gross domestic product as a result. 
Approximately  7,000  children  lost  their  parents,  and 
half a million people became food-insecure. More than 
5  million  children  lost  valuable  schooling  and  skills-
development  time.  Mammoth  recovery  efforts  are 
required to get those economies and societies back to 
where  they  were  before  the  outbreak.  Unfortunately, 
many  countries  in  Africa  also  suffered,  irrespective 
of  how  distant  those  countries  were  from  the  three 
primarily affected countries. The tourism industry is a 
case in point: it is suffering throughout Africa.
4/26 
15-29437
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.17
The biggest lesson from the handling of the Ebola 
outbreak in West Africa is that the world needs to be 
better prepared to prevent and respond to epidemics in 
future.  That  was  not  the  case  for  the  Ebola  outbreak 
in West Africa. In that regard, we should all commend 
the Secretary-General for his wise decision to establish 
the High-level Panel on the Global Response to Health 
Crises  to  make  recommendations  on  how  the  world 
can  better  respond  to  public-health  emergencies  of 
global  concern  in  the  future.  I  was  given  the  honour 
of chairing the Panel. It is premature for me to report 
anything  substantive  now  to  the  General  Assembly. 
We  will  complete  our  work  in  December,  and  I  am 
sure  our  report  will  be  brought  before  the  Assembly 
for  information  and  action.  We  look  forward  to  the 
Assembly’s support.
Tanzania  welcomes  the  historic  and  momentous 
decision taken by the United States of America and the 
Republic  of  Cuba  to  restore  diplomatic  relations  and 
reopen  embassies  in  Washington,  D.C.,  and  Havana. 
We join the people of Cuba and the people of the United 
States  in  celebrating  that  landmark  achievement.  We 
commend President Barack Obama and President Raúl 
Castro  Ruz  for  their  bold  and  courageous  leadership. 
The two leaders and countries have proved to all of us 
the power of dialogue in finding solutions even when 
the differences are deep-rooted and the conflicts long-
standing. We extend best wishes to our United States 
and Cuban friends as they open a new chapter in their 
bilateral relations. We hope that the United States will 
lift the remaining economic sanctions and appeal to it 
to do so. The sanctions have condemned the people of 
Cuba to untold socioeconomic hardships, poverty and 
misery for the past 50 years.
In  the  same  vein,  it  is  our  wish  that  Israel  and 
Palestine  would  resume  dialogue  so  that  their  long-
standing  conflict  can  be  resolved  peacefully.  It  is 
high  time  that  the  pain  and  suffering  endured  by  the 
people  of  Palestine  over  many  decades  be  brought  to 
an end. It is about time that the people of Israel lived 
peacefully and harmoniously with their neighbours. It 
is  regrettable  that,  as  we  celebrate  70  years  since  the 
founding  of  the  United  Nations,  the  conflict  remains 
unresolved.  Tanzania  subscribes 
to  and  supports 
the  two-State  solution,  with  the  State  of  Israel  and  a 
sovereign,  contiguous  and  viable  State  of  Palestine 
living side by side in peace, security, harmony, mutual 
recognition,  trust  and  cooperation.  We  believe  it  is 
possible and achievable. All that is required of us is to 
redouble our efforts.
Another  outstanding  issue  for  the  Organization 
is  that  of  Western  Sahara,  a  matter  that  must  not  be 
left  unresolved.  The  lack  of  action  on  the  part  of  the 
United Nations to implement its decisions in the matter 
is both regrettable and incomprehensible. The people of 
Saharawi have waited far too long for an opportunity to 
determine their fate and future. Let this Organization 
muster the political will and pluck up the courage to do 
what it decided long ago to do. At 70, the United Nations 
is old enough and has accumulated enough wisdom and 
experience to put this matter to rest. Please, let us do it.
On  20  September  2006  I  stood  at  this  rostrum 
(see  A/61/PV.13)  for  the  first  time  and  addressed  the 
General Assembly as the newly elected fourth President 
of my dear country, the United Republic of Tanzania. 
Today I stand here to bid farewell, as I prepare to leave 
office  upon  the  completion  of  my  two-term  mandate, 
in accordance with the Tanzanian Constitution. I thank 
all  my  colleagues  in  the  Assembly  for  the  invaluable 
support and cooperation they have extended to me, my 
Administration and my country over the past 10 years 
of  our  work  together.  Kindly  be  assured  that  I  will 
always value each and every contribution. I feel proud 
to have had the opportunity to work with all Member 
States to promote the ideals of the United Nations and 
to  contribute  to  the  pursuit  of  world  peace,  security, 
stability and development.
As  I  take  my  leave,  I  would  like  to  assure  the 
Assembly that Tanzania will remain a faithful Member 
and an unwavering supporter of the United Nations. I 
am confident that Members will find in my successor 
a  likeable  and  dependable  friend  and  ally.  Please 
accord  him  or  her  —  I  should  add  that  we  have  a 
female candidate for the presidency of Tanzania — the 
necessary support and cooperation in fulfilling his or 
her duties and responsibilities.
The road ahead for peace, security and development 
remains challenging but worth the journey. It requires 
our  renewed  resolve  and  the  reaffirmation  of  our 
commitment to the ideals, values and principles set down 
by  the  founding  fathers  of  the  United  Nations  seven 
decades ago in San Francisco. All nations, individually 
and collectively, should endeavour to promote them, as 
we have been doing for the past 70 years. It can be done. 
The international community must play its part.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the United Republic of 
Tanzania for the statement he has just made.
15-29437
5/26
A/70/PV.17 
29/09/2015
Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Nicolás Maduro Moros, President 
of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela.
Mr.  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros,  President  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  was  escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Nicolás Maduro Moros, President of the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President Maduro Moros (spoke in Spanish): We 
are assembled here in 2015, once again fully aware of 
the immense struggle of our peoples to arrive at an age 
of  dignity,  a  time  when  there  will  finally  be  a  world 
that  respects  the  distinct  identities  of  all  our  peoples, 
This year, Venezuela celebrates the 200th anniversary 
of a prophetic document written by our liberator, Simón 
Bolívar. I am speaking of the letter that he wrote 200 
years  ago  in  Kingston,  Jamaica,  a  beautiful  island  of 
the Caribbean, at the exact moment when the liberation 
forces  began  their  ascent  from  the  depths  of  history 
after hundreds of years of colonial domination of our 
lands — today Latin America and the Caribbean. The 
purpose of that letter was to define the nature of their 
struggles and outline the path they needed to follow. In 
it, Simón Bolívar defined the elements of a geopolitical 
vision 
the  Americas  —  a  non-imperialist, 
non-colonialist  geopolitical  vision  that,  in  twenty-
first century terms, we might call anti-imperialist and 
anti-colonialist. Two hundred years ago, he set down the 
conceptual lines of the geopolitical thesis we continue 
to  support  today  to  address  the  need  to  establish  a 
balanced universe and a world with justice and peace 
for all. For 200 years we have drawn inspiration from 
that  prophetic  letter.  And,  only  a  few  days  ago,  here 
in  our  common  home  of  humankind,  Pope  Francis 
renewed  Simón  Bolívar’s  message  (see  A/70/PV.3), 
saying that we need a new form of geopolitics, a new 
approach, a new world, a geopolitical vision based on 
respect  for  the  different  peoples  of  the  world  and  for 
their  different  identities  and  models;  in  other  words, 
a  policy  of  coexistence  and  of  peace  with  justice  and 
for 
equality. He called for a political approach that rejects 
the  imposition  of  all  forms  of  hegemony,  whether 
through the threat or use of force, and all attempts at 
financial,  economic,  cultural,  military  and  political 
hegemony.
This  year  we  also  celebrate 
the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations. 
Those  70  years  have  sped  by,  like  a  fast-forwarded 
movie, while we undertook the most important search in 
human history, namely, the search for ways to settle our 
differences and to build a world that fulfils everyone’s 
hopes,  a  world  without  exclusion  or  discrimination. 
Humankind has been able to celebrate some successes 
in those 70 years.
In  1945,  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  was 
written in the aftermath of the Second World War. While 
the tragedy that destroyed half of the planet and took 
millions of innocent lives was still fresh in everyone’s 
mind, humankind came together to write that Charter 
and, with it, to spell out its dreams. For 70 years, the 
Preamble  of  the  Charter  has  continued  to  announce 
emphatically that we the peoples of the United Nations 
are determined to save succeeding generations from the 
scourge of war. Today, in 2015, we the peoples of the 
world announce that we are ready to save humankind 
from  the  scourges  of  inequality,  poverty,  looting  and 
exploitation, which are the true causes of all the wars 
that we have known.
During  those  70  years,  we  witnessed  the  birth 
of  a  dyadic  world —  aptly  named  because  of  the  two 
factions involved — that, in the form of the Cold War 
and the resulting real and painful wars, left their mark 
on the second half of the 1940s and the 1950s, 1960s 
and 1970s. Later, with the collapse of the Soviet Union, 
we  saw  the  emergence  of  a  menacing  monadic  world 
that claimed that it had a panacea that could cure all our 
ills and rid us of false ideologies. In the 1990s, in that 
world,  one  way  of  thinking  and  one  economic  model 
were imposed on us. That was the era of neoliberalism, 
an era that sowed poverty and extreme need, owing to 
the privatization of the natural resources and economies 
of  peoples  of  the  South.  In  general,  it  sowed  misery, 
sickness and unemployment throughout the world.
A dyadic world characterized by confrontation was 
succeeded by a monadic world, in which an intolerable 
situation  was  inflicted  upon  us.  The  dawn  of  the 
twenty-first century, thanks to God and thanks to the 
work of the people, saw the rise of a revolutionary elan 
in the Venezuelan people, who have, in turn, inspired 
6/26 
15-29437
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.17
the constructive revolution of the peoples of the South, 
in Latin America and in the Caribbean.
In this new century, the time has finally come to 
build  a  multipolar  world  —  a  multi-centred  world;  a 
world without hegemony; a world of equals; a world in 
which the other’s points of view are respected; a world 
that  acknowledges  the  weight  that  should  be  given  to 
emerging  centres  of  political,  economic  and  cultural 
power;  a  world  that  recognizes  the  new  regionalisms 
that are gaining in strength in the various parts of the 
world; a world that ushers in a new era and recognizes 
the values set down in the inspiring words of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  by  ensuring  that  the  rights  to 
human  dignity,  self-determination,  independence  and 
life are realized for all peoples.
This multipolar and multi-centred world encompasses 
major  themes.  In  this  Hall,  we  have  listened  to  the 
speeches made from this rostrum. Yesterday, we heard 
the  speeches  of  President  Dilma  Rousseff,  from  our 
brother country, Brazil, and President Barack Obama of 
the United States of America. We saw President Vladimir 
Putin  shine  as  one  of  the  most  important  leaders  in 
the  world  today.  We  saw  Presidents  Xi  Jinping,  Raúl 
Castro,  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Rafael  Correa,  Cristina 
Fernández. We have followed attentively the discussion 
of  the  topics  that  are  the  subject  of  this  debate.  We 
have listened to what was said on the issues of war and 
peace. I believe that today no one in this Hall, or in any 
other forum, could offer a single word in defence of the 
unjust wars that have destroyed our brother peoples in 
Africa, Asia and the Middle East.
Today,  taking  inspiration  from  the  rebelling  and 
clarion  voice  of  the  people  of  Venezuela,  we  need  to 
acknowledge  the  tragic  errors  that  were  committed 
when  our  brother  nations  were  invaded,  bombed  and 
waged war on. Today, we should acknowledge that the 
four wars that the world has seen during the past decade 
and a half have caused major systems within the United 
Nations to fail. With regard to the war in Afghanistan, 
we should ask ourselves and our brothers, the people of 
Afghanistan: did it bring peace? Did it bring stability? 
Did it bring life to the people of Afghanistan? Or did it 
bring more misery, destruction and terrorism? The war 
in Iraq was inspired by manipulation and lies and had 
only one goal: to conquer Iraq. It had only one objective: 
to take Iraq’s oil and natural riches. Twelve years later, 
can we say that Iraq is a more united, more peace-filled 
or  more  stable  country?  We  should  say  to  those  who 
staged  the  war  in  Iraq  that  once  again,  through  war, 
they  have  failed  and  caused  international  politics  to 
fail.  And  Libya?  The  words  that  Commandant  Hugo 
Chávez  Frías  pronounced  in  this  very  Hall  are  fresh 
in  our  memory.  He  warned  of  the  lies  used  to  justify 
the bombing and conquest of Libya. Whatever political 
differences  one  country  may  have  with  another’s 
leadership or Government, it is not entitled, under the 
Charter of the United Nations or pursuant to any other 
mandate,  to  challenge  or  judge  the  political  authority 
of that leadership or to overthrow that Government. No 
one is authorized to do that.
All  this  is  distressing  for  us.  We  love  the  Arab 
peoples.  We  admire  their  ancient  culture.  We  admire 
the Muslim peoples. Today, it pains me to say what I 
think is universally acknowledged, that what happened 
in  Libya  was  a  crime.  A  stable  country,  which,  in  its 
turn,  sustained  the  stability  of  a  score  of  other  North 
African  and  African  countries,  was  destroyed.  Libya 
was the founder of the African Union, but what is Libya 
now?  The  people  of  Venezuela  are  asking  if  Libya  is 
a  more  stable  country  economically  and  socially?  Is 
it a united country? Is it a country? Is it a country at 
peace? And who will pay for the crimes in Libya, Iraq 
and  Afghanistan?  Who  will  acknowledge  them?  And 
what will happen to Syria? The situation there brings 
to mind one of those horror films made in Hollywood. 
The horror in Syria is created by the politics of terror 
and the terror of war.
With all due modesty and humility, we in Venezuela 
believe that the United Nations system still has time to 
prevent a worse tragedy in Syria, a tragedy of even more 
terrifying  and  shocking  proportions  than  those  that 
befell  Afghanistan,  Iraq  and  Libya.  Humankind  still 
has time to create a new alliance of peace. We support 
the proposal put forth by the President of the Russian 
Federation,  Mr.  Vladimir  Putin,  on  the  creation  of  a 
new alliance of peace. Venezuela, as a non-permanent 
member  of  the  Security  Council,  will  submit  another 
proposal with a view to protecting the people of Syria 
and  putting  up  a  real  fight  against  the  groups  that, 
instigated and financed by the West, have been sowing 
terror, death and destruction. Humankind must lend its 
support and assistance to Syria for the salvation of the 
surrounding region.
Our fellow citizens in Europe would be wrong to 
believe  that  they  can  escape  the  consequences  of  the 
humanitarian  tragedy  in  Syria,  or  to  think  that  mass 
exoduses of Syrians will not reach their shores and lands, 
exerting an impact on the entire European civilization. 
15-29437
7/26
A/70/PV.17 
29/09/2015
The  United  Nations  must  wake  up  and  react  to  the 
tragedy  in  Syria.  We  must  learn  from  the  resounding 
and tragic failure of the four wars I just mentioned and 
initiate, in the Security Council and the United Nations 
system, the establishment of a new regulatory system 
prohibiting the use of interventionist methods to cause 
war,  spread  terror  and  bring  destruction  and  death  to 
peoples  declared  undesirable  or  unfriendly  by  world 
elites.
We  must  overcome  huge  challenges  in  order  to 
achieve  peace.  I  believe  that  on  this  there  is  general 
consensus,  because  we  have  heard  even  President 
Obama say that there is no development without peace. 
We  have  heard  that  the  philosophy  of  peace  has  been 
gaining  ground  among  major  world  leaders.  Only 
peace can guarantee the viability of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), a noble 
plan  for  making  progress  towards  achieving  equality 
and overcoming poverty. Only peace can guarantee the 
viability  of  development  in  international  relations  on 
our planet. There are therefore huge challenges facing 
the United Nations system.
A new regionalist approach is being developed in 
Latin America. This is good news for our Latin American 
and Caribbean region. In recent years, Latin America 
has  rediscovered  the  path  to  unity  and  independence, 
to unity in diversity and to a common search. Today, in 
2015, we can justifiably say here at the United Nations 
that Latin America has been consolidating the strength 
of  its  new  communities.  At  their  historic  Summit  in 
Havana,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
declared Latin America a zone of peace. The path of our 
region is heading in that direction. Subregional bodies, 
such  as  Petrocaribe  and  the  Bolivarian  Alliance  for 
the Peoples of Our America, and powerful subregional 
bodies  that  operate  collectively,  such  as  the  Union  of 
South  American  Nations  (UNASUR),  have  created 
a  new  reality  on  our  continent.  We  still  have  one 
armed  conflict  to  settle:  the  60-year-old  internal  war 
and conflict in Colombia. On behalf of the Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela,  we  congratulate  Colombia  on 
the  welcome  steps  taken  by  President  Juan  Manuel 
Santos  Calderón  in  order  to  make  progress  towards 
a  conclusive  peace  agreement  with  the  guerrillas  of 
the  Fuerzas  Armadas  Revolucionarias  de  Colombia. 
Venezuela  is  betting  heavily  on  the  strengthening  of 
the path of peace in Colombia — that Colombia which 
was the beautiful dream of our Liberator and the fine 
creation of our liberators.
In  addition,  Latin  America  is  speaking  with 
one  voice.  We  will  demonstrate  this  once  again  on 
28 October. President Raúl Castro Ruz and our comrade 
Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla  have  announced  that 
the  issue  of  the  embargo  of  the  United  States  against 
Cuba  will  be  discussed  by  the  General  Assembly  on 
28  October.  We  acknowledge  the  steps  taken  in  2015 
for  the  normalization  and  regularization  of  relations, 
based on respect between the Government of President 
Barack Obama and the Government of President Raúl 
Castro Ruz, between the United States of America and 
Cuba.
We  say  to  the  United  States  Government  that 
we  look  forward  to  the  day  when  the  relations  of 
its  Government  with  all  the  Governments  of  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  enjoy  the  same  treatment 
in terms of dialogue, respect and recognition as Cuba 
receives  today.  We  are  waiting  for  the  United  States 
to  turn  the  page  on  a  history  of  interventionism  and 
coups  d’état,  and  of  attempts  to  disrupt  revolutionary 
processes, as occurred in Venezuela and with the long 
hostility towards Cuba, which lasted for 56 years and 
consisted  of  the  embargo  and  economic  and  financial 
persecution.  That  history  must  not  be  repeated.  The 
financial  and  economic  blockade  and  the  persecution 
suffered by Cuba must end as soon as possible.
Just as President Jimmy Carter in 1979 signed the 
agreement  to  return  the  sovereignty  of  the  Panama 
Canal  to  the  Panamanians,  we  hope  that  soon  the 
United  States  will  return  the  Guantanamo  Base  and 
territory  to  the  Cuban  people,  who  have  historically 
been its owners.
The  good  news  is  possible  only  because  of  the 
perseverance of the Cuban people and their proud and 
rebellious  spirit,  which,  like  the  beauty  of  Cuba,  has 
remained resilient throughout all these years of struggle. 
It has also been possible, we must admit, because of the 
courage of President Barack Obama in assuming a new 
policy towards Cuba.
In the same spirit, we support and echo the appeal 
of  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  nations  to  the 
Government  of  the  United  Kingdom  to  decide  sooner 
rather than later that it will sit down and negotiate, in 
accordance  with  international  law  and  via  peaceful 
diplomacy and understanding, the right of Argentina to 
the Malvinas Islands, South Sandwich and the rest of the 
surrounding islands that, beyond a shadow of a doubt, 
historically belong to Argentina. It is an appeal made 
8/26 
15-29437
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.17
by  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States  (CELAC),  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the 
Group of 77 and China, and all who support peaceful 
diplomacy, dialogue and communication. It is an appeal 
that must be answered.
Venezuela  has  been  facing  significant  challenges 
in recent years in its endeavour to create an eminently 
Venezuelan  social,  economic  and  political  model, 
an  endeavour  inspired  by  the  doctrine  of  Liberator 
Simón Bolívar. It has chosen the human option in the 
battle  that  our  brother  President  Evo  Morales  Ayma 
referred  to  yesterday  (see  A/70/PV.15)  and  the  option 
that  Pope  Francis  described  as  eminently  humanistic 
(see  A/70/PV.3).  Venezuela  has  opted  to  build  a  new 
society  —  the  socialist  society.  It  is  a  twenty-first- 
century  socialist  revolution  that  joins  such  other 
revolutions of independence in Latin America as those 
in  Bolivia,  Ecuador  and  Nicaragua.  Venezuela  is  on 
the same path as the historic Cuban revolution and is 
following  the  example  of  Commander  Fidel  Castro 
Ruz, President Raúl Castro Ruz and the Cuban people.
Our people have waged a great battle while facing 
domestic and foreign conspiracies. Recently, we had to 
deal with major conspiracies and grave attacks. Earlier 
this year, we had to have a public debate on a threatening 
executive order issued, on 9 March, by President Barack 
Obama,  which  declared  Venezuela  an  unusual  and 
extraordinary threat to the people of the United States. 
I think that the debate at the Summit of the Americas in 
Panama in April accurately clarified the real meaning 
of the thinking underlying the order. The statement of 
President  Obama  recognizing  that  Venezuela  was  a 
country of peace and is not and never has been a threat 
to  the  United  States  is  a  very  positive  step.  However, 
I must say, as Head of State and Government, it is not 
enough. The order issued on 9 March must be repealed 
and annulled, because it is a threat to my homeland and 
my country. We have initiated talks with the Government 
of the United States, in the same spirit in which Cuba 
initiated a respectful dialogue and communication, so 
that sooner rather than later we can remove the sword of 
Damocles — the order of 9 March — that hangs above 
the heads of the Venezuelan people.
This  year  also,  as  we  reported  nationally  and 
internationally,  Venezuela  had 
to  use  peaceful 
diplomacy  to  lift  the  threat  of  conflicts  along  our 
border.  I  reported,  and  I  do  so  respectfully  now  in 
the  General  Assembly,  a  pincer  operation  aimed  at 
causing conflicts along the borders with Colombia and 
with  our  sister  Republic  of  Guyana.  A  week  ago,  we 
were  in  Quito,  summoned  by  CELAC  and  UNASUR, 
and  together  with  President  Juan  Manuel  Santos 
Calderón, we were able to define a way of clearing the 
provocations, threats and attacks by paramilitaries and 
drug traffickers against Venezuela. That is being done, 
and I am now able to say that I have strong hopes that 
we will be able to complete the process and then restore 
normal working relations and communications with the 
Government of Colombia.
Similarly,  with  the  new  Government  of  Guyana, 
there  were  a  number  of  issues  that  needed  to  be 
resolved within the regional framework. I want to thank 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for answering the call 
of  Venezuela  and  convening  a  meeting  on  Sunday, 
27  September,  the  day  of  the  blood  moon  and  the 
eclipse. While the blood moon was rising, we met with 
the President of Guyana, Mr. David Granger. Again, I 
am glad to say that peaceful diplomacy prevailed and 
allowed us to successfully take steps in connection with 
a historical claim that Venezuela has had since 1835.
The Bolivarian Revolution of Venezuela therefore 
will  continue  to  address  the  threats  and  difficult 
circumstances  with  Bolivarian  peaceful  diplomacy,  a 
diplomacy  that  enables  us,  by  means  of  dialogue  and 
communication,  to  resolve  the  various  threats  to  and 
problems of the Venezuelan people.
Venezuela 
is  shortly 
to  hold  parliamentary 
elections — the twentieth in 15 years of revolution. In 
the  previous  elections,  the  revolutionary,  independent 
and  Bolivarian  forces,  inspired  by  our  Commander 
Chávez, won 18 of the victories. We are heading into 
the  parliamentary  elections.  Everything  is  prepared 
once  again.  Former  United  States  President  Jimmy 
Carter once said that the Venezuelan electoral system 
was the most transparent and comprehensive electoral 
system  he  had  ever  seen.  It  will  enable  our  people  to 
express their will in the elections on 6 December.
Mr.  Alyemany  (Yemen),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
I urge the world to be very attentive to any attempt 
to  interfere  with  the  political  process  in  Venezuela. 
Venezuela  is  willing  to  continue  its  course  along  the 
active and participatory democratic path. It is the path 
prescribed  by  our  Constitution  and  adopted  by  our 
people  in  1999.  It  is  a  path  of  peace.  The  Bolivarian 
people  have  an  eminently  democratic,  popular 
and  peaceful  nature.  Therefore,  this  year  we  will 
15-29437
9/26
A/70/PV.17 
29/09/2015
undoubtedly  continue  to  demonstrate  and  strengthen 
the  independence  and  dignity  that  characterize  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
Two  hundred  years  after  the  prophetic  letter  in 
Kingston  was  written,  we  wish  here  to  say  aloud, 
forcefully and with dignity, that we endorse the appeal 
for a different United Nations and a radical reform of 
the  system  created  70  years  ago.  We  venture  to  say, 
as  Bolívar  did,  that  the  world  needs  a  new,  balanced 
and  respectful  geopolitics  that  strengthens  the  new 
regionalism. Most of all, the world needs to listen to the 
people. We very much hope that, in 15 years’ time, in 
2030, when the next cycle of the 2030 Agenda will be 
drawing to an end — the Agenda to promote equality 
and life and to eliminate poverty — we will be able to 
celebrate a new policy of peace, the rebuilding of the 
towns that have been destroyed by the unfair imperialist 
wars,  and  a  new  regulatory  system  with  which  the 
United Nations can quell attempts to impose hegemony 
by  those  who  think  they  have  the  right  to  rule  other 
peoples. I very much hope that in 2030 we will be able 
to build and rebuild this marvellous institution that was 
born 70 years ago with a dream of peace, which is our 
dream today. Long live peace!
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros,  President  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mrs. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, President 
of the Republic of Liberia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Liberia.
Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Ellen 
Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Liberia, 
and to invite her to address the Assembly.
President  Johnson-Sirleaf:  On  this  auspicious 
occasion,  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United 
year 
has 
to 
registered 
Nations,  I  am  honoured  to  address  the  Assembly  on 
behalf  of  the  Government  and  people  of  Liberia.  I 
congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  to  preside 
over the Assembly, and I appreciate the stewardship of 
his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Sam Kutesa, who 
ably conducted the Assembly’s affairs at the sixty-ninth 
session.
This 
ground-breaking 
developments.  After  50  years,  the  United  States 
and  Cuba  have  decided  to  resolve  differences  by 
establishing  diplomatic  relations.  Another  milestone 
was the adoption here, a few days ago, of the post-2015 
development  agenda,  “Transforming  our  world:  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” (resolution 
70/1),  by  which  we  committed 
implementing 
measures  to  transform  the  lives  of  our  peoples  —  to 
lift them from poverty to prosperity — and to preserve 
the planet. It was this same vision that, 70 years ago, 
motivated  the  founding  of  this  global  organization  to 
promote  peaceful  coexistence,  economic  and  social 
advancement of all peoples, respect for human dignity, 
and equal rights of men and women and nations large 
and small. I am proud to say that Liberia was among the 
founding Members of the United Nations.
The creation of the United Nations came out of a 
realization that only a global organization, through the 
support and cooperation of the comity of nations, would 
be suitable to grapple with the many challenges facing 
humankind.  Today,  a  reduction  in  inter-State  conflict 
and  cooperation  in  the  protection  and  promotion  of 
human rights and in alleviating global poverty, disease 
and hunger are the hallmarks of this body. On the other 
hand, increased intra-State conflicts and international 
terrorism  are  seeking  to  undermine  the  gains  made 
in  reducing  human  suffering.  Protracted  and  intense 
conflicts  in  various  parts  of  the  world  pose  serious 
threats to global peace and security.
Thus new and emerging challenges call the United 
Nations 
to  action.  Despite  commendable  efforts, 
Africa,  the  Middle  East,  Asia  and  Europe  still  have 
vortexes  of  conflict.  Migrants  and  people  seeking 
refuge  from  conflicts  and  economic  hardship  are 
swirling across Europe. We are haunted by the growing 
threats  of  destabilizing  forces,  such  as  Boko  Haram 
and the Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham (ISIS), and 
by  attempts  to  reverse  democratic  initiatives,  such  as 
that in Burkina Faso, which invoked an immediate and 
decisive  response  from  the  Economic  Community  of 
West African States.
10/26 
15-29437
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.17
Climate  conditions  are  changing,  and  so  must 
we.  In  many  countries  of  the  world,  women  are  still 
being  treated  as  second-class  citizens.  As  Liberia 
bears  painful  witness,  weak  public-health  systems  in 
individual  countries  threaten  global  health  and  well-
being. It is not beyond this body to find answers and to 
respond, and we know that we must. We feel compelled 
to  ask  if,  at  70,  our  world  Organization  is  hindered 
today  by  inflexible  structures  and  overburdened  by 
bureaucracies.  Is  the  current  structure  of  the  United 
Nations fit for purpose — to play its role in the global 
transformation  processes  over  the  next  15  years?  We 
are encouraged by the introspection that is taking place 
at the United Nations around these questions.
We  commend  the  foresight  of  the  Secretary-
General in directing a comprehensive review of peace 
operations,  which  is  complemented  by  a  review  of 
the  Organization’s  peacebuilding  architecture  and  a 
global study on the implementation of Security Council 
resolution  1325  (2000),  on  women’s  participation 
in  peace  processes.  After  the  completion  of  these 
reviews,  we  expect  implementation  to  bring  further 
improvements.  Liberia  can  attest,  with  gratitude, 
to  the  nature  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding 
functions,  which  are  critical  and 
indispensable for post-conflict countries.
This year, we marked the twentieth anniversary of 
the historic Fourth World Conference on Women, held 
in  Beijing,  and  its  Platform  for  Action  for  women’s 
empowerment and gender equality. We are also marking 
the fifteenth anniversary of resolution 1325 (2000), on 
women’s  participation  in  peace  processes.  And  while 
improvements have been made in the status of women, 
much  more  remains  to  be  done.  We  must  therefore 
all  step  up  and  take  further  measures,  going  beyond 
moralizing  gender  equality  to  tangible  actions.  In 
70 years only three women have served as President of 
the General Assembly — one of them, many years ago, 
being  our  compatriot,  Mrs.  Angie  Brooks  Randolph. 
Only a few women have served or are serving as special 
representative  of  the  Secretary-General,  and  not  a 
single woman has ever served as Secretary-General.
As we ponder, in Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone, 
the three countries worst hit by the deadly Ebola virus 
disease,  we  bear  witness  to  the  foundational  creed  of 
the United Nations that we can always find it within our 
humanity to respond even to unknown enemies to our 
collective  progress.  Accordingly,  we  remain  grateful 
to  the  international  community  for  the  outpouring  of 
support  and  assistance  as  we  faced  down  the  deadly 
disease,  the  greatest  modern  threat  to  global  public 
health.  We  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon, 
who  —  in  partnership  with  our  countries  and  with 
support  from  the  African  Development  Bank,  the 
African  Union,  the  European  Union  and  the  World 
Bank  —  hosted  the  International  Ebola  Recovery 
Conference to focus attention on, and seek support for, 
our post-Ebola recovery programmes.
The  Ebola  scourge  undoubtedly  leaves  indelible 
marks  of  grief,  sorrow  and  unimaginable  affliction. 
But  it  has  also  caused  us  to  celebrate  heartwarming 
tales  of  extraordinary  courage  and 
leadership 
across  Governments  and  communities,  as  well  as 
exceptional  regional  and 
international  responses. 
We  are  now  proceeding  with  implementation  of  our 
post-Ebola  economic  stabilization  and  recovery  plan, 
with  expectations  of  support  from  our  bilateral  and 
multilateral  partners  for  a  regionally  approved  post-
Ebola  recovery  strategy  that  the  three  Mano  River 
Union countries affected have formulated.
We  are  determined  to  address  our  development 
losses, including by rebuilding better and more resilient 
health and education systems. The Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda,  adopted  in  April,  offers  pathways  to  various 
forms of financing, capacity-building and technological 
exchange in support of our pursuit of our development 
objectives. We must now forge genuine partnerships in 
order to move ahead on the road to strengthening peace 
and security, human rights, socioeconomic development 
and environmental sustainability. We stand firm in our 
political will to meet any challenge to our commitment 
to leaving no one behind.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Liberia for the statement she has just 
made.
Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Edgar Chagwa Lungu, President of 
the Republic of Zambia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Zambia.
15-29437
11/26
A/70/PV.17 
29/09/2015
Mr.  Edgar  Chagwa  Lungu,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zambia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Edgar 
Chagwa Lungu, President of the Republic of Zambia, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Lungu: I would like to begin by thanking 
the Secretary-General and by expressing my gratitude 
for the convening of this important session, at which we 
mark the seventieth anniversary of the United Nations. 
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate His 
Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft on his assumption of 
the presidency of the General Assembly at its seventieth 
session.  I  am  confident  that,  coming  as  he  does  from 
the  great  country  of  Denmark,  he  will  preside  over 
our  meetings  with  great  success.  I  would  also  like  to 
pay  tribute  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  of  the 
Republic of Uganda for successfully presiding over the 
Assembly at its previous session.
I  am  profoundly  grateful  for  the  opportunity  to 
deliver  my  first  address  to  this  gathering  of  world 
leaders.  I  should  recall  that,  almost  a  year  ago,  my 
country  found  itself  at  a  crossroads  following  the 
demise,  on  28  October  2014,  of  our  fifth  President, 
Mr. Michael Chilufya Sata — may his soul rest in peace. 
I was elected President of the Republic of Zambia in the 
subsequent  election,  which  took  place  on  20  January. 
Building  on  my  country’s  impeccable  record  in  the 
area  of  democracy  and  good  governance,  the  election 
was  described  as  transparent,  peaceful,  free  and  fair, 
reflecting our commitment to internationally accepted 
standards  for  peaceful  changes  of  Government  and 
popular  participation  in  shaping  a  country’s  destiny. 
I  would  therefore  like  to  thank  the  people  of  Zambia 
for  being  true  champions  of  democracy.  As  we  meet 
today, I also feel duty bound to thank the international 
community  for  its  unflinching  solidarity  during  that 
very challenging time of the past year.
This  year  is  an  important  one  for  the  General 
Assembly,  as  we  commemorate  the  70  years  of 
existence  of  the  United  Nations.  In  our  deliberations, 
therefore,  it  is  imperative  that  we  take  stock  of  the 
collective successes as well as the challenges of the past 
seven  decades,  in  order  to  improve  the  performance 
of  this  noble  Organization.  I  am  optimistic  that  the 
seventieth  session  will  set  a  tone  for  the  future  and 
meet the expectations of the international community 
as  a  whole.  Zambia  is  proud  to  be  part  of  the  global 
endeavour to foster the mandate of the United Nations 
to promote peace, security and respect for human rights 
and to ensure progress in development for all. We are 
concerned,  however,  that  the  gears  for  advancing  the 
three  pillars  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  are 
moving at a very slow pace, which has the potential to 
negate the gains we have achieved so far. It is therefore 
important  that  we  enhance  our  concerted  efforts  to 
address areas of concern.
We  have  just  adopted  the  world’s  quintessential 
development blueprint in the form of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), centred 
on  humankind,  the  environment  and  the  creation  of 
peaceful societies. Those core elements will guide its 
implementation, supported by the principle of leaving 
no one behind. I have been encouraged by the focus on 
development that has characterized the global discourse 
in recent years, as the 2030 Agenda has evolved. The 
development  lessons  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals and the cumulative experience of the 70 years of 
the  United  Nations  should  serve  as  a  springboard  for 
our  ambitions.  Let  us  therefore  ensure  the  successful 
implementation  and  attainment  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs).  I  am  confident  that  the 
invaluable  lessons  learned  will  set  us  on  a  trajectory 
that  must  inevitably  lead  to  a  safer,  more  inclusive, 
cleaner and more prosperous world.
threatened 
In  the  70  years  of  the  existence  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  inequality  gap  among  and  between 
nations has continued to widen, as poverty and youth 
unemployment  have 
the  prospects  for 
peace,  security  and  development.  My  Government 
looks  forward  to  the  comprehensive  implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
which  promotes  poverty  eradication  and  the  creation 
of  employment  opportunities  for  young  people  and 
women, especially in rural communities.
Over the past 70 years, the global community has 
become  more  united  than  ever  before  in  its  quest  to 
push boundaries in order to attain peace and security; 
yet  it  is  as  divided  as  ever,  if  not  more  so,  on  the 
question of who makes decisions on global peace and 
security.  The  70  years  of  the  existence  of  the  United 
Nations  have  seen  more  conflicts  in  Africa  than  on 
any other continent, and yet those 70 years have been 
characterized  by  Africa’s  absolute  exclusion  from 
decision-making  in  the  Security  Council,  despite  the 
fact  that  a  significant  part  of  the  Council’s  agenda 
12/26 
15-29437
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.17
concerns the African continent. In the 70 years of the 
existence  of  the  United  Nations,  Africa  remains  the 
only  continent  not  represented  among  the  permanent 
members of the Security Council. Goal 10 of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) 
on  reducing  inequality  among  countries  will  not  be 
achieved  without  eradicating  the  inequality  among 
countries in the Security Council. The United Nations 
must,  therefore,  redouble  its  efforts  to  implement 
Security Council reform in order to ensure that Africa 
can  take  its  rightful  place  among  the  community  of 
nations  and  contributes  equitably  and  effectively  to 
global peace and security.
Zambia has continued and will continue to offer its 
resources for peacekeeping, including the deployment 
earlier  this  year  of  a  large  contingent  of  troops  to 
the  Central  African  Republic.  Zambia  comes  with  a 
long  history  of  involvement  in  conflict  prevention, 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding.  As  a  landlocked 
country,  our  independence  was  incomplete  as  long 
as  we  remained  surrounded  by  nations  still  fighting 
their  liberation  struggles.  That  gave  impetus  to  our 
moral conviction to join in the liberation struggles in 
Africa. Since then, Zambia has continued to participate 
in  peacebuilding 
initiatives  and  has  supported 
peacekeeping efforts all around the world. We continue 
to  share  the  global  concerns  at  the  unrelenting 
threats  of  terrorism,  as  it  mostly  affects  the  safety  of 
non-combatants and civilian populations.
I have been encouraged by the focus on development 
that  has  characterized  global  discourse  during  the 
past  year,  notably  through  discussions  on  the  SDGs 
and  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
Zambia  has  been  a  beneficiary  of  various  initiatives 
aimed at facilitating the attainment of the Millennium 
Development  Goals,  which  arose  from  the  collective 
resolve  of  the  generation  of  world  leaders  at  the  turn 
of the millennium. Indeed, most of our countries have 
continued  to  face  serious  challenges  in  the  quest  to 
foster  development  and  improve  the  quality  of  life  of 
our  people.  The  challenges  are  numerous,  including 
energy  shortages  and  the  effects  of  climate  change. 
The  two  are  inseparable  on  the  development  agenda 
for  countries  such  as  Zambia  that  rely  heavily  on 
hydropower generation.
The  changing  rainfall  pattern  has  adversely 
affected  power-generation  capacities  in  most  of  our 
countries.  This  year,  Zambia  is  experiencing  an 
unprecedented  energy  crisis,  which  has  already  cost 
the  nation  dearly  in  terms  of  productivity,  jobs  and 
revenue.  Beyond  the  economic  limitations,  the  social 
ramifications  are  equally  devastating  to  the  country. 
It  is  therefore  important  that  much  effort  be  exerted 
to  develop  mitigation  strategies  to  counter  the  effects 
of  climate  change.  Furthermore,  developing  countries 
are  still  grappling  with  other  challenges,  such  as 
poverty,  high  unemployment  —  particularly  among 
the  youth  —  skewed  industrial  development,  low 
intraregional  trade,  inadequate  infrastructure,  low 
productivity in agriculture and livestock, poor quality 
health services and the challenges of access to quality 
education.
As  we  move  forward,  it  is  important  for  us  to 
acknowledge the realities and imperatives of the world 
today  and  to  renew  our  common  resolve  to  sustain 
the  core  principles  of  our  Organization  as  the  United 
Nations. We should redouble our efforts, by harnessing 
our individual strengths in order to collectively address 
the  rather  complex  challenges  that  confront  us  in  our 
increasingly globalized and interdependent world.
Given the demographic nature of our communities, 
poverty  remains  a  real  concern,  particularly  in  rural 
areas. In Zambia, 70 per cent of the people in rural areas 
depend on agriculture for their livelihood. Agriculture 
is one of my Government’s priority areas in the county’s 
efforts  to  diversify  the  economy,  apart  from  mining. 
The  Government  is  therefore  devising  interventions 
aimed  at  improving  capacities  and  adding  value  for 
both  subsistence  farmers  and  commercial  farmers. 
Our  interventions,  notably  the  Farmer  Input  Support 
Programme,  the  Irrigation  Development  and  Support 
Project,  and  other  credit  schemes,  need  additional 
support  in  order  to  exploit  the  full  potential  of  that 
giant industry. We also seek to strengthen partnerships 
to  enable  the  improvement  of  services  in  such  areas 
as  providing  extension  services,  improving  access 
to  market  information  and  facilitating  the  physical 
transfer of produce to markets.
A  key  element  of  Zambia’s  development  agenda 
is  industrialization.  In  that  regard,  my  Government 
has  devised  measures  to  encourage  and  support  the 
development  of  appropriate  industries,  mainly  in 
value-added  industries,  in  order  to  spur  structural 
economic  transformation  and  increase  private-sector 
participation. The primary focus in that area has been 
on areas with more backward and forward linkages so 
as  to  catapult  the  Zambian  economy  to  higher  levels 
of  growth,  leveraging  regional  value  chains  so  as  to 
15-29437
13/26
A/70/PV.17 
29/09/2015
expand trade, attract foreign direct investment, create 
employment,  reduce  poverty,  promote  sustainable 
development and thereby empower our people.
Financing is one of the major challenges that faces 
developing  countries.  We  need  external  resources 
to  bridge  the  gap  in  the  funds  required  to  finance 
development projects. It is in that light that the United 
Nations  third  International  Conference  on  Financing 
for  Development,  held  in  Addis  Ababa  in  July  to 
develop  strategies  for  financing  development,  was 
most welcome. The Conference recommended several 
measures meant to bridge the financing gap, including 
the  need  to  exploit  new  sources  of  finance  and 
improve  tax  administration  systems,  which  would  be 
supplemented by international support. We know that 
putting the appropriate infrastructure in place is very 
important  in  our  quest  to  expand  intra-Africa  trade, 
bolster our productive capacities and enhance Africa’s 
competitiveness in the global market. In that regard, we 
must quickly identify sources to raise the $100 billion 
Africa  needs  annually  to  finance  its  infrastructure 
development.
It  is  equally  important,  from  the  perspective  of 
landlocked developing countries, to remain committed 
to  implementing  the  decisions  of  the  2014  Vienna 
Programme  of  Action  for  Landlocked  Developing 
Countries  for  the  Decade  2014-2024.  In  keeping  with 
that  commitment,  Zambia  was  privileged  to  host  a 
high-level  meeting  on  the  follow-up  to  the  Second 
United Nations Conference on Landlocked Developing 
Countries, held in Livingstone in June. I was honoured to 
officiate at the Conference and hope that the Assembly 
finds the time to review the outcome document, entitled 
“Livingstone Call for Action”.
Special  attention  should  be  paid  to  gender  and 
women’s empowerment. The International Conference 
on  Population  and  Development  Beyond  2014  Global 
Review Report, published in June 2013, indicates that 
35  per  cent  of  women  have  been  victims  of  gender-
based violence. Indeed, Zambia acknowledges that the 
problem  extends  to  most  nations,  including  our  own. 
To  that  end,  we  are  already  implementing  important 
interventions  to  curb  that  scourge.  Our  approach  to 
development  will  not  be  limited  to  the  economy  but 
will  continue  to  focus  on  all  pillars  of  development. 
I  welcome  the  fact  that  our  traditional  leaders,  the 
United Nations system and civil society have all been 
seamlessly working with Governments in fighting for 
gender equality for our women and girls.
One of the most important programmes, and one in 
which I have been engaged as a designated champion, 
is the “He For She” campaign, which seeks to address 
issues  of  gender-based  violence.  That  project  was 
initiated  by  UN-Women  in  September  2014  with  the 
aim of addressing incidents of gender-based violence. 
In  a  few  days,  my  Government  will  also  launch  the 
United States-supported “From Boys to Men” project, 
which  targets  the  15-to-21-year-old  age  group  and  is 
aimed at encouraging the development of a non-violent 
generation.  In  our  determination  to  bridge  the  gap 
between the sexes, a vigorous campaign is under way 
to  strengthen  the  education  of  girls  by  encouraging 
them  to  complete  their  schooling  and  unlock  their 
developmental  potential  instead  of  being  pushed  into 
child-, early or forced marriages.
The situation of our young people remains daunting, 
with  unemployment  one  of  the  major  challenges  they 
face. To address that situation, my Government recently 
launched  a  national  youth  policy  that  seeks  to  lay  a 
foundation for interventions of various kinds aimed at 
supporting the development of a vibrant and productive 
generation.  We  hope  to  create  500,000  jobs  over  the 
next  five  years,  an  effort  that  will  depend  heavily  on 
the private-sector-led job market. We are also making 
efforts  to  address  the  specific  social  disadvantages 
of  the  most  marginalized  members  of  our  society, 
including the disabled. We want to ensure that they can 
realize their potential and serve in national development 
efforts in the same way as anyone else.
The  challenges  are  many,  but 
they  are  not 
insurmountable.  The  United  Nations  has  been  a  key 
ally in addressing some of those problems, and indeed, 
to  a  large  extent,  the  story  of  Zambia  is  the  story  of 
the  United  Nations.  I  am  confident  that  through  our 
concerted  and  collective  efforts,  determination  and 
hard work, coupled with able and visionary leadership, 
we  shall  indeed  overcome.  I  look  forward  to  working 
with  everyone  here  so  as  to  ensure  that  our  shared 
solutions are brought forward and implemented in the 
spirit of this Organization.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Zambia for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Edgar  Chagwa  Lungu,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zambia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
14/26 
15-29437
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.17
Address by Mr. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of 
the Republic of Estonia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Estonia.
Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Estonia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Toomas 
Hendrik Ilves, President of the Republic of Estonia, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Ilves:  When  I  addressed  the  Assembly 
last year (see A/69/PV.8), foremost on our minds was 
the state of European and global security. The blatant 
violation  of  international  law  in  connection  with  the 
occupation  of  Ukrainian  territory  that  we  witnessed 
in  the  spring  of  2014  triggered  a  profound  change  in 
the global security situation. A year later, we are still 
adapting  to  that  altered,  more  unpredictable  state  of 
affairs.  As  we  continue  to  tackle  global  challenges, 
including  terrorism,  climate  change,  poverty  and 
human  rights  violations,  the  number  of  conflicts  and 
crises worldwide continues to grow.
We also witnessed a positive development recently. 
Let us hope that the historic agreement on Iran’s nuclear 
programme will pave the way for greater stability in the 
broader Middle East. It is a region where conflicts in 
Syria and Libya have led to the radicalization of an ever 
greater number of people and to the emergence of the 
Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). It poses a 
serious threat to peace and security in Syria, Iraq and 
the broader Middle East. ISIL violates universal human 
values. No country is immune to the threat that it poses. 
Stopping ISIL and other terrorist organizations requires 
a global effort. Estonia supports the Global Coalition to 
Counter ISIL, and we believe that the United Nations 
and  the  Global  Counterterrorism  Forum  also  have  an 
important role to play there.
The ongoing crises and conflicts, including in Syria 
and Libya, have also led to the current refugee crisis in 
Europe. While Europe’s refugee crisis has been in the 
international  headlines  in  recent  months,  the  problem 
itself  is  obviously  wider  and  more  global.  According 
to United Nations statistics, one in every 122 persons 
is now either a refugee, an asylum seeker abroad or an 
internally displaced person in his or her home country. 
Worldwide, 42,000 people flee their homes every day. 
Never  before  have  there  been  so  many  people  forced 
to  be  on  the  move.  The  civil  war  in  Syria  alone  has 
created more than 4 million refugees. The majority of 
them  have  sought  refuge  in  neighbouring  countries, 
which have borne by far the greatest burden. But many 
refugees have opted to take the dangerous route across 
the Mediterranean and have ended up in Europe. There 
were  600,000  asylum  seekers  in  Europe  in  2014,  and 
there will be far more this year.
I am also extremely worried about the rising support 
that we are witnessing for far-right and far-left political 
movements in Europe, often fuelled by anti-immigrant, 
racist  statements  that  threaten  the  liberal-democratic 
base  of  our  continent  that  has  allowed  us  to  live  in 
prosperity since the Second World War. Short-sighted 
populist policies exploiting the fears of ordinary people 
will lead nowhere.
The  European  Union  (EU)  is  the  main  donor 
in  the  effort  to  alleviate  the  Syrian  refugee  crisis. 
Approximately  €4  billion  has  been  mobilized  by  the 
European  Commission  and  EU  member  States  for 
humanitarian, development, economic and stabilization 
assistance  to  Syrian  internally  displaced  persons  and 
refugees. And more efforts are being planned, including 
an African trust fund. The aim is to shift the focus from 
dealing with the consequences of the migration crisis 
to  dealing  with  its  root  causes.  But  this  truly  biblical 
movement of people demands a global response.
We not only have the responsibility to bring peace 
and stability to Syria and Libya but also to put an end 
to the aggression against Ukraine. Compared to what it 
was a year ago, the armed conflict in eastern Ukraine 
is  less  intense,  but  daily  fighting  continues.  Crimea 
remains  illegally  occupied.  Those  responsible  for  the 
downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH-17 are still at 
large.  The  attempts  to  obstruct  justice  on  that  matter 
are  deeply  disturbing.  The  long-standing  protracted 
conflicts in Georgia, Moldova and Nagorno Karabakh 
remain unresolved. Dialogue and diplomatic efforts to 
find a solution to the Russian-Ukrainian conflict must 
continue. A solution to the conflict must, however, not 
come  at  the  expense  of  the  principles  that  underpin 
European  and  global  security.  We  must  continue  to 
stand up for the international agreements that we have 
collectively agreed upon  — the Charter of the United 
Nations, the Helsinki Final Act, the Charter of Paris for 
a  New  Europe  —  and  demand  that  they  be  honoured 
15-29437
15/26
A/70/PV.17 
29/09/2015
and enforced. We must continue to stand up to attempts 
to divide countries and establish spheres of influence.
As  the  number  of  conflicts  and  crises  worldwide 
grows,  respect  for  human  rights  has  become  more 
important than ever. We must uphold universal values 
and  stop  massive  violations  of  human  rights  and 
crimes  against  humanity,  regardless  of  who  or  what 
caused them. As stated in the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights, human rights apply to everyone without 
exception.
This  year  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
Beijing Declaration and the Platform of Action, which 
have influenced how we address equality and women’s 
rights  today.  We  need  to  continuously  stand  for  the 
rights of women and girls and strive for the elimination 
of  gender-based  violence.  Women’s  rights  and  the 
empowerment  of  women  and  girls  must  be  promoted 
at all levels. I welcome the 2015 high-level review and 
global study on the implementation of Security Council 
resolution 1325 (2000) and hope that it will provide us 
with a new impetus to move forward on those issues. 
We must advance global actions linked to the welfare 
of children by investing in their education and health, 
as well as by keeping them away from armed conflicts.
An active and dynamic civil society is a precondition 
for prosperity. A free press, the freedom of speech and 
the freedom of conscience are the cornerstones of any 
open society. In an era of so-called multiple narratives, 
we must pay tribute to those activists, journalists and 
bloggers who risk their lives to expose the truth.
This year, the Human Rights Council established a 
mandate on the right to privacy. Journalists, bloggers, 
human  rights  activists  and  many  others  living  under 
authoritarian regimes have urged their Governments to 
stop  the  arbitrary  or  unlawful  interference  with  their 
privacy. They have called on their Governments to stop 
taking over their emails, closing their blogs and applying 
censorship.  Unfortunately,  the  situation  concerning 
the right to privacy and the freedom of expression has 
worsened  during  the  past  several  years.  Governments 
must  protect  the  right  to  privacy,  as  stated  in  articles 
2, 17 and 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and 
Political Rights. Any interference with privacy must be 
lawful  and  reasonable.  At  the  same  time,  the  right  to 
the freedom of expression must be guaranteed. Estonia 
has high expectations with regard to the new mandate.
This  is  a  crucial  year  for  global  action  against 
poverty  and  for  promoting  sustainable  development. 
I  welcome  the  historic  agreement  reached  on  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  in  the  form  of  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Action (resolution 70/1). 
National Governments can play a key role in creating 
an environment conducive to sustainable development. 
The promotion of peaceful and inclusive societies, the 
respect  for  human  rights,  gender  equality,  the  rule  of 
law  and  good  governance,  as  well  as  environmental 
sustainability, are central to the new global partnership. 
Economic growth is, assuredly, important, but must not 
come at the expense of the environment. The twenty-
first session of the Conference of Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to 
be held soon in Paris, should reach an agreement that 
promotes those goals.
The  smart  use  of 
the  Internet  and  digital 
technologies  can  be  essential  drivers  for  economic 
growth and development. We need strong public policies 
so  that  the  digital  era  can  become  a  genuine  success 
and a motor of development for each country and each 
member of society. That requires a stable, predictable 
legal environment that encourages foreign investment 
and competition. We also need an educational system 
that teaches the necessary new skills, and we need an 
accessible  Internet  and  Internet  freedom.  Those  are 
steps that only Governments can provide.
Ninety  per  cent  of  the  people  without  access  to 
the Internet live in the developing world. Bridging the 
digital  divide  among  and  within  countries  —  across 
borders,  gender,  income  and  age  —  is  essential  for  a 
contemporary  digital  economy.  In  2016,  the  Internet 
itself  will  become  the  world’s  fifth-largest  economy, 
behind  only  those  of  the  United  States,  China,  Japan 
and  India.  It  is  time  for  world  leaders  to  place  the 
potential  of  digital  technologies  at  the  top  of  the 
development agenda. I am personally glad to co-chair 
the advisory panel for the upcoming World Bank World 
Development Report 2016. That report, entitled “Digital 
Dividends”, examines how the Internet can be a force 
for development and asks, importantly, what is required 
to unlock the still largely unrealized potential of digital 
technologies.
Adherence to the principle of the rule of law is an 
essential  cornerstone  of  peace  and  security.  Estonia 
strongly supports the International Criminal Court (ICC) 
in its activities, including its quest to end impunity. We 
call on all countries that have not yet done so to join the 
Rome Statute of the ICC. We also urge all States parties 
to join in the ratification of the outcome documents of 
16/26 
15-29437
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.17
the Review Conference of the Rome Statute of the ICC. 
The  responsibility  to  provide  accountability  is,  first 
and foremost, a domestic task. It is therefore essential 
that States build their national capacities to investigate 
and prosecute serious international crimes. Estonia has 
provided  development  cooperation  resources  to  assist 
countries in their national implementation of the Rome 
Statute, and we encourage other States parties to act in 
a similar manner.
Under the first pillar of the responsibility to protect, 
all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  commit 
to  protect  their  people  from  genocide,  war  crimes, 
ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. On the 
occasion of the tenth anniversary of the responsibility 
to protect, I reiterate our support for that principle, and 
call on the international community to make a renewed 
commitment  to  prevent  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic 
cleansing  and  crimes  against  humanity.  The  Security 
Council  bears  primary  responsibility  in  that  regard. 
Unfortunately,  in  the  most  serious  situations,  the 
Security Council has failed to act owing to the abuse of 
the veto. It is disappointing that in cases such as those 
of Syria and Ukraine, Council debates have brought no 
result. Council members must not vote against actions 
aimed at preventing and stopping mass atrocities. We 
therefore support the initiatives of the Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  (ACT)  group  and  of 
France and Mexico on the non-use of the veto in cases 
of  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity,  war  crimes  or 
other atrocities.
Security Council reform clearly needs to become a 
reality. United Nations reform, which Estonia strongly 
supports,  is  not  only  about  the  Security  Council.  We 
see this seventieth anniversary of the United Nations as 
a good opportunity to make progress on reform. As a 
member of the ACT group, Estonia is eager to increase 
transparency in the process of the election of the next 
Secretary-General. I am glad that some ACT proposals 
have  already  contributed  to  making  the  process  more 
transparent.  For  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  the 
United Nations, an agreement has emerged to the effect 
that  the  election  process,  the  lists  of  candidates  and 
informal  meetings  should  begin  in  a  concrete  way.  I 
hope  for  close  cooperation  between  the  Presidents  of 
the General Assembly and the Security Council to that 
end.
Let me stress the importance of taking responsibility. 
We are being assaulted by an avalanche of problems. It 
is especially important that we adhere to our values and 
stand by our commitments. Only then will the concepts 
of human rights, equality, democracy and international 
law acquire meaning. Only if we uphold those values 
will  we  be  able  to  surmount  the  turbulent  times  in 
which we find ourselves today.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Estonia for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Estonia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Danilo Medina Sánchez, President 
of the Dominican Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic): The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Dominican Republic.
Mr.  Danilo  Medina  Sánchez,  President  of  the 
Dominican Republic, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic): On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Danilo Medina Sánchez, President of the Dominican 
Republic, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Medina Sánchez (spoke in Spanish): It 
is  an  honour  to  participate  once  again  in  the  work  of 
the General Assembly as a representative of the people 
and  the  Government  of  the  Dominican  Republic.  At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  welcome  and  congratulate 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  on  his  election  as  President  of 
the General Assembly at its seventieth session.
This  anniversary  gives  us  the  opportunity  to  put 
in  perspective  what  the  Organization  has  meant  for 
humankind. It was established 70 years ago as the fruit 
of the worst horrors of war and as the first global forum 
created  to  preserve  peace,  coexistence  and  the  well-
being  of  all  human  beings.  It  is  true  that  the  United 
Nations was born of the wounds, pain and fear left by 
the great conflicts of the twentieth century, but it also 
arose from the unstoppable force of hope and the iron 
will of great men and women who believed in dialogue, 
solidarity and the grandeur of the human race.
Although  we  still  have  far  to  go  and  although 
the  Organization 
immense 
continues  to  represent  the  values  that  inspire  us  day 
challenges 
remain, 
15-29437
17/26
A/70/PV.17 
29/09/2015
after  day.  Over  the  past  12  months,  the  international 
community  has  experienced  difficult  challenges, 
but  it  has  also  witnessed  encouraging  events  that  we 
would do well to recall. We witnessed the reopening of 
embassies between the United States and Cuba, which 
brings us closer to the day when that sad, decades-long 
conflict will finally come to rest in the history books. 
We  are  also  putting  the  final  touches  on  a  renewed 
commitment to global development, which is enshrined 
in the post-2015 development agenda in the form of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1). At the same time, the industrialized nations have 
finally  taken  a  decisive  and  resolute  step  forward  to 
combat  climate  change.  We  welcome  their  political 
will,  for  which  we  have  been  calling  for  some  time, 
because we believe it represents an act of responsibility 
and justice that heralds a more equitable model for the 
distribution  of  responsibilities  between  rich  and  poor 
nations.
The  post-2015  development  Agenda  provides 
an  excellent  opportunity  for  us  to  focus  on  our  most 
central priority and the greatest enemy of sustainable 
development,  namely,  inequality.  The  fight  against 
inequality  is  the  point  of  departure  for  solving  the 
majority  of  the  global  challenges,  yet  it  remains  our 
main unfinished task throughout the world, especially 
in Latin America. If we review our achievements, we 
see a landscape filled with light and shadow, one that 
offers grounds for rejoicing but also one that prompts 
urgent calls to action. On the one hand, Latin America, 
after Asia, is the region with the largest middle class, 
with more than 130 million people projected to attain 
that status by 2030, according to the Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development.
However,  along  with  sub-Saharan  Africa,  it  is 
also the most unequal region in the world. Even today, 
the wealthiest 10 per cent of Latin Americans receive 
32  per  cent  of  the  region’s  income,  while  the  poorest 
40  per  cent  receive  only  15  per  cent.  So,  despite  our 
efforts to combat poverty, it remains excessive and is 
aggravated  by  great  inequality.  As  the  excellent  2014 
study by the Economic Commission for Latin America 
and the Caribbean (ECLAC), entitled “Instability and 
inequality”,  points  out,  greater  equality  with  growth 
requires two profound changes — first, in our structure 
of  production,  and  secondly,  in  our  structure  of 
distribution. In other words, growth is as necessary for 
equality as equality is for growth. To put it even more 
clearly, we need both a responsible productive sector that 
guarantees wealth creation across all layers of society 
and an active, effective State to ensure the redistribution 
of wealth and the creation of opportunities.
However,  if  we  look  at  the  current  structure  of 
the  productive  mechanisms  of  the  countries  of  Latin 
America, we have to acknowledge the differences within 
that structure. In other words, we need to recognize that 
at least three levels of development exist simultaneously 
in each country. On our journey towards progress, we 
not only ride in different cars and in different classes, but 
on different rails, which means that we move forward at 
radically different speeds. According to a recent study 
of  18  countries  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
that was conducted by ECLAC and the German Agency 
for  International  Cooperation,  our  region  operates  a 
high-speed  rail  system,  as  it  were,  which  connects 
modern  global  businesses  to  international  trade  and 
accounts for 60 per cent of gross domestic product but 
only  20  per  cent  of  jobs;  a  medium-speed  rail,  which 
prevails in the middle income countries, accounting for 
22.5 per cent of gross domestic product and 30 per cent 
of jobs; and finally, a rail that serves micro-businesses 
and the informal economy, which together bring in only 
10.5 per cent of wealth but account for 50 per cent of 
jobs. That makes it impossible for everyone to benefit 
and participate proportionally in growth.
As  the  ECLAC  study  makes  clear,  what  we  have 
is a structural factory for inequality, which means that 
major changes will be needed to correct our path and 
enable everyone to advance at the same rate. We need to 
change the structure of production, shatter the old ways 
and  move  ahead  together  to  a  model  that  will  benefit 
everyone, big and small. To begin with, it is essential 
that the “middle way” be promoted in particular. Public 
policies  must  help  to  ensure  that  small  and  medium-
sized  enterprises  have  better  access  to  credit  and  are 
more  competitive,  productive  and  innovative.  Small 
and  medium-sized  enterprises  must  also  become 
actors  in  globalization,  finding  their  proper  place  in 
the production chains. In that way they will be able to 
provide not just more jobs, but proper jobs, high-quality 
jobs, and they will be able to hire an increasingly well-
trained labour force.
Along with the necessary changes in the structure 
of our economies, the State should be the second pillar 
of the fight against inequality. We have to reassert the 
role of the State as an effective redistributor of wealth, 
as  a  creator  of  opportunities  and  as  a  defender  of  the 
rights of all citizens.
18/26 
15-29437
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.17
Let  us  remember  the  counterexample  of  what 
happened  in  the  1980s,  during  the  so-called  lost 
decade.  Poverty  increased  to  cover  almost  half  of  the 
Latin  American  population.  The  austerity  policy  that 
many States opted for further aggravated the situation 
and slowed the recovery. In the next decade, the 1990s, 
the  recovery  began,  and  there  was  major  progress  in 
key areas, such as education. That yielded fruit in 2002, 
when a labour force that was better educated than their 
parents  was  finally  able  to  finally  benefit  from  an 
expanding economy and higher wages.
Since  then,  the  Gini  index  on  income  inequality 
has  dropped  by  5  per  cent.  That  shows  clearly  that 
social  policies  are  essential,  along  with  changes  in 
productivity  and  improvements  in  the  labour  market. 
We cannot continue looking at the relationship between 
economic policies and social policies as an unresolvable 
conflict. Rather, we have to tackle both aspects at the 
same  time  and  move  in  the  same  direction  to  reduce 
inequality. Only in that way can we deal with problems 
that  seem  to  be  endemic,  but  that  actually  derive  in 
large  measure  from  the  disproportionate  allocation  of 
available resources.
Look  at  what  has  been  happening  to  our  youth. 
Today,  this  generation  of  young  people  has  received 
more years of schooling than anybody else in our history. 
And yet, they have higher rates of unemployment and 
only part-time work. Another paradox is that, although 
they  have  more  years  of  schooling,  only  one  third  of 
poor  students,  according  to  tests,  meet  the  minimum 
reading  competency  levels.  In  parallel,  the  increasing 
automation of work means that soon, instead of choosing 
between skilled and unskilled jobs, it will be a question 
of skilled jobs or simply unemployment. Therefore, if 
we do not want that scenario to continue perpetuating 
exclusion, we have no other option than to make a firm 
commitment to quality education. And we have to do 
that in a serious way. The Dominican Republic is trying 
to  improve  the  quality  of  its  educational  system,  and 
we are also trying to achieve the necessary changes to 
make our economy grow in equality, so that our State 
can be active in supporting its people.
Inequality is the root cause of many of the challenges 
that we face globally, including violence and insecurity, 
which  particularly  afflict  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean. Ours is the only region where the homicide 
rate has increased over the past 15 years. There is a lot 
of  discussion  about  the  relationship  between  violence 
and  inequality.  Recent  studies  show  that  a  1  per  cent 
increase  in  the  Gini  index  leads  to  a  similar  rise  in 
the  homicide  rate.  And  though  it  may  sound  harsh  to 
describe  that  terrible  tragedy  in  economic  terms,  we 
cannot fail to note that the impact of violence on people 
and goods costs us 14.2 per cent of the gross domestic 
product in the Latin American region. At the same time, 
inequality  is  also  a  breeding  ground  for  transnational 
crime and drug trafficking, which are recruiting young 
people at an increasingly early age and robbing them of 
future opportunities.
Therefore,  one  of  the  tasks  facing  us  at  the 
international  level  is  to  rethink  our  policies  on  how 
to combat drugs. As members of the Assembly know, 
next year the special session on the world drug problem 
will  take  place,  at  the  request  of  Mexico,  Guatemala 
and Colombia. We hope that, by the time that session 
is  held,  the  idea  that  drugs  constitute  a  problem  that 
affects  only  some  countries  will  have  been  dismissed 
for good. The tens of thousands of people killed in the 
so-called war on drug trafficking in Latin America and 
the Caribbean cannot be regarded as collateral damage. 
It  is  a  humanitarian  disaster  that  is  due  too  often  to 
policies  that  have  been  badly  designed  and/or  are 
poorly implemented. We need to change our focus and 
reach  a  new,  more  updated  and  realistic  international 
consensus  that  leaves  room  for  national  Governments 
to  design  policies  suited  to  their  circumstances,  as 
some countries represented here are already doing.
In conclusion, may I return to the more optimistic 
note  on  which  I  began.  The  international  community, 
represented  here  in  the  General  Assembly,  has  made 
historic progress. Although we know that much remains 
to  be  done,  the  balance  of  what  has  been  achieved  in 
terms of the Millennium Development Goals shows that 
we can move ahead when we focus our efforts properly. 
Our experience in the Dominican Republic shows that 
having  a  clear  agenda  and  a  common  course  is  the 
only way to move forward rapidly. We have therefore 
prepared  our  post-2015  development  agenda,  which 
leads  us  to  propose  a  major  partnership  between  the 
private sector, civil society and Government so that the 
change can be lasting and sustainable. We believe that 
when the political will exists, no challenge is too great. 
I have no doubt that we can find the will to overcome 
the challenges before us.
The  post-2015  agenda  provides  the  opportunity 
to focus our efforts on the roots of the problems. The 
time is now. The responsibility is ours. From now on, 
let us work to create countries with equal opportunities 
15-29437
19/26
A/70/PV.17 
29/09/2015
for and access to development for all our citizens. We 
are  working  for  equality  and  solidarity  and  for  a  fair 
distribution of the resources of this planet that we share.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Dominican Republic for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr.  Danilo  Medina  Sánchez,  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Her Excellency Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, 
President of the Republic of Lithuania
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Lithuania.
Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Dalia 
Grybauskaitė,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Lithuania, 
and to invite her to address the Assembly.
President Grybauskaitė: The seventieth anniversary 
of the United Nations offers us an opportunity to renew 
our  commitments  to  the  ideals  and  principles  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations. Today, those ideals and 
principles are threatened in so many ways around the 
globe.  We  are  witnessing  the  largest  displacement  of 
people  since  the  Second  World  War.  As  of  last  year, 
nearly 60 million people were displaced by war, conflict 
or persecution. Violent extremism is on the rise, with 
terrorist groups demonstrating new levels of brutality 
and  barbarity.  In  the  twenty-first  century,  women 
and girls are sold in slave markets by the criminals of 
Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham (ISIS) and abused in 
unspeakable  ways.  We  have  entered  an  era  where  the 
most primitive and brutal executions coexist with the 
most sophisticated information warfare, hybrid warfare 
and cyberwarfare.
The Charter of the United Nations has been breached 
in  the  middle  of  Europe,  with  no  consequences.  Last 
year,  Russia  annexed  Crimea,  and  the  Kremlin  seeks 
to rewrite history and redraw the borders of post-war 
Europe.  Even  in  the  context  of  the  multiple  crises 
and  security  challenges  the  world  is  facing  today, 
the  annexation  of  Crimea  and  military  aggression  in 
eastern Ukraine stand out because of their implications 
for the future of international peace and security. These 
acts strike at the very core of international law and at 
universally  accepted  norms  of  behaviour  that  have 
allowed the world community to survive without world 
wars for seven decades.
We  cannot  pledge  respect  for  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and ignore its breaches at the same time. 
Our  collective  failure  to  stand  up  for  the  underlying 
principles of the independence, sovereignty, unity and 
territorial  integrity  of  Ukraine  will  have  far-reaching 
negative  repercussions  for  international  order.  The 
occupied  territories  of  Ukraine,  Georgia  or  Moldova 
are full of red lines that we ourselves have drawn but 
never acted upon. Again, we are reminded that if one 
closes one’s eyes to crimes, they do not disappear. They 
spread, grow and finally they take over. That is why it 
is  our  duty  to  uphold  international  humanitarian  and 
human  rights  laws  and  to  seek  accountability  when 
these  laws  are  violated.  Vetoing  a  Security  Council 
resolution to commemorate the Srebrenica massacre or 
to  set  up  a  tribunal  for  the  downing  of  Flight  MH-17 
is  unjustifiable  and  is  an  insult  to  the  memory  of  the 
victims. It also raises questions about the relevance, in 
the twenty-first century, of the Security Council as it 
is today.
For the Council to maintain its credibility, the least 
it can do is put an end to the use of the veto in cases of 
genocide, atrocity crimes, crimes against humanity and 
war crimes. Where would we be today had the Council 
been  able  to  secure  proper  humanitarian  access  in 
Syria, had it taken measures to stop the use of barrel 
bombs  and  ensure  accountability  for  gross  human 
rights  violations  and  abuses?  The  Security  Council 
failed to do so, and millions of Syrians had to flee. By 
protecting the criminals, the four vetoes of resolutions 
pertaining to Syria did nothing to resolve the situation.
As a result, today we have the largest humanitarian 
crisis  in  the  world.  It  is  a  global  crisis  that  requires 
a  global  response.  Unless  we  address  the  causes  that 
make people flee their homes — such as lawlessness, 
repression and grave human rights abuses, corruption 
and  poor  governance,  massive 
inequalities  and 
marginalization  —  these  flows  of  refugees  will  not 
stop.  Conflicts  will  continue.  Lawlessness  breeds  the 
worst of the worst — extremism, radicals and terrorists. 
We simply cannot afford for this to happen.
20/26 
15-29437
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.17
We live in an era when challenges and threats are 
enhanced by new ones. At 70, the United Nations must 
adapt  to  the  realities  of  the  twenty-first  century  and 
have the tools necessary to operate. The United Nations 
must do much better, tackling the underlying causes of 
the problems and conflicts at hand, and not merely the 
symptoms. It must be equipped and staffed to operate 
in  environments  of  asymmetric  and  hybrid  warfare, 
information wars and the growing threat of terrorism. 
It must also do a lot better at prevention and mediation, 
in order to save lives, as well as resources.
In  the  twenty-first  century  the  world  will  need  a 
strong United Nations that has been renewed in every 
sphere.  Either  we  act  now  and  shape  globalization 
through  cooperation  and  partnership,  or  the  crises 
and  conflicts  of  the  globalized  world  will  force  us  to 
respond at a much greater cost to all of us. The United 
Nations will cease to exist if people stop believing in it. 
Through our activities, 70 years after the founding of 
the United Nations, we must show that we continue to 
believe firmly in this Organization, which we all share.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Lithuania for the statement she has 
just made.
Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. James Alix Michel, President of the 
Republic of Seychelles
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Seychelles.
Mr. James Alix Michel, President of the Republic of 
Seychelles, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. James Alix 
Michel, President of the Republic of Seychelles, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Michel: “We the peoples of the United 
Nations,  determined  ...”.  Yes,  these  are  bold  and 
visionary  words  drafted  70  years  ago,  providing  the 
United Nations with its sense of purpose and the world 
with a vision that continues to inspire and motivate us. 
I have always believed in this vision. We all do, in fact. 
Yet, in spite of all the good intentions and the inspiration 
we continue to draw from the Charter, something seems 
to be sorely lacking. That something is determination. 
President Lykketoft’s urging for a new commitment to 
action more than confirms this. His experience affords 
him  the  privilege  of  speaking  his  mind,  and  so  does 
mine.
We must look around us. Let us look at the world. 
It  is  a  world  lacking  in  determination,  a  world  torn 
apart by vicious wars and conflicts. It is a world where 
poverty, hunger, famine and epidemics continue to grow 
unabated, where inequality, injustice and disparity are 
on the rise; a world where environmental degradation 
and  despoliation  go  unchecked;  a  world  —  our 
world — menaced by climate change.
Is that the legacy we want to leave to our children? 
No, my friends, it cannot be so. We must hear the cries 
of children who are hungry or in distress. We must hear 
the  cries  of  despair  of  islanders  affected  by  climate 
change. We must feel the pain of women struggling to 
keep their children alive. We must stop spending money 
to destroy lives. Instead, we must act together, not only 
to  keep  alive  those  struggling  to  survive,  but  to  give 
meaning to their lives. We therefore have a duty and an 
obligation to change the world we live in and to make it 
a better place for current and future generations.
We  can  make  that  happen  if  we  set  our  minds  to 
it; if we, who are in the privileged position of leading 
our peoples, accept our responsibilities; if we cast aside 
indecisiveness;  if  we  look  beyond  the  narrow  pursuit 
of  ideological  and  national  interests.  We  can  make  it 
happen if we adopt the principles of justice and fairness, 
not half-heartedly but resolutely.
Let  us  start  with  the  United  Nations  itself.  Its 
lofty  ideals  are  as  relevant  today  as  when  it  was 
founded.  However, 
its  structures  of  governance, 
particularly  the  Security  Council,  are  not.  In  today’s 
world, it represents a fundamentally undemocratic and 
unrepresentative  institution.  The  same  applies  to  the 
international  organizations  set  up  in  the  wake  of  the 
creation of the United Nations. We have to make them 
relevant  to  the  realities  of  the  present  era.  We  need 
action,  determination  and  commitment  to  set  things 
right,  to  make  all  of  them  relevant  to  the  century  we 
live in and to give true meaning to an all-inclusive and 
participatory democracy.
15-29437
21/26
A/70/PV.17 
29/09/2015
We  also  need  resolute  action  if  the  spirit  and 
essence  of  sustainable  development  is  to  be  truly 
embraced  globally.  Many  challenges  still  remain, 
especially  for  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS). 
We are the sentinels of nature and the guardians of the 
oceans. But the actions — or inaction, as the case may 
be  —  of  others  threaten  our  livelihood  and  our  very 
existence.  As  Pope  Francis  has  just  emphasized,  we 
must break the current growth model and give primacy 
to the protection of nature over consumerism, thereby 
minimizing  the  effects  of  climate  change.  Climate 
change  is  not  of  small  island  States’  making,  yet  we 
bear  the  full  brunt  of  it.  That  is  why  we  shall  never 
cease to raise the issue in every forum, including this 
one, because we are the conscience of the world.
The President’s acceptance speech (see A/69/PV.94) 
set  the  tone  for  a  new  commitment  to  action  and,  I 
believe, to determination. The two are indivisible. They 
form an appropriate backdrop to the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1).  The  2030 
Agenda sets realistic Goals, targets and a time frame for 
the creation of a better world, leaving no one behind. It 
is an all-inclusive Agenda, which makes it abundantly 
clear  that  there  can  be  no  sustainable  development 
without  peace  and  no  peace  without  sustainable 
development.
Sustainability  has  always  been  and  will  continue 
to  be  at  the  heart  of  the  development  efforts  of  the 
Seychelles.  Together  with  our  fellow  small  island 
developing  States,  we  have  been  actively  engaged  in 
this discourse to ensure that our concerns and needs are 
adequately  addressed.  The  engagement  of  the  United 
Nations under the Secretary-General’s bold leadership 
has given us a ray of hope. We have again seen many 
commitments and pledges. But will those alone resolve 
our challenges? No, not unless they are translated into 
concrete actions.
The application — or rather, the non-application — of 
the  principle  of  special  and  differential  treatment  for 
small  island  developing  States  is  one  of  our  major 
preoccupations.  It  is  not  because  some  of  us  have 
achieved  upper-middle-income  or  high-income  status 
that  our  development  efforts  are  thwarted  by  the 
non-provision  of  international  funds  at  concessionary 
rates.  A  one-size-fits-all  approach  to  development 
cannot be the order of the day. It is unjust and morally 
inacceptable.  We,  the  inhabitants  of  small  island 
developing States, will never cease to remind everyone 
of  this.  That  is  because  islands  remain  the  moral 
compass  of  the  world,  and  because  our  own  agenda 
is  inextricably  linked  to  that  of  humankind.  We  will 
always insist on the need for a more tailored approach 
in  tackling  the  specific  challenges  we  face,  one  that 
takes  our  vulnerabilities  into  account.  The  lack  of  an 
appropriate  vulnerability  index  that  can  be  applied 
effectively 
the  effective 
empowerment of small island developing States.
to  development  hampers 
Goal  14  of  the  2030  Agenda  is  of  particular 
importance to all SIDS and coastal States. It presents 
us  with  a  unique  opportunity  to  set  a  standard  for 
global  governance  of  the  oceans  and  seas.  The  Goal 
to  conserve  and  sustainably  use  the  oceans,  seas  and 
marine resources for sustainable development provides 
the thrust for the blue economy. That concept has been 
adopted  by  many  small  island  developing  States  as  a 
mechanism  for  realizing  sustainable  growth,  based 
on  an  ocean  economy  and  an  ocean  governance.  The 
Barbados Programme of Action, the Mauritius Strategy 
and 
the  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action 
(SAMOA) Pathway are key to this. For oceanic nations, 
the  sea  is  our  lifeblood  and  the  blue  economy  is  the 
catalyst through which we can learn to thrive.
But we cannot thrive in an environment of insecurity. 
Maritime  security  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to  the 
vast  majority  of  SIDS  and  to  coastal  States.  In  our 
part  of  the  world,  though  piracy  is  on  the  wane,  we 
must remain vigilant. As we have demonstrated in the 
case of piracy, however, global alliances have made a 
difference in providing security where there was none. 
In that regard, I would like to express my gratitude to 
the  United  Nations  and  other  international  partners 
for  all  their  support  in  our  fight  against  piracy  in 
the Indian Ocean. My hope is that this model will be 
replicated in order to tackle similar issues that threaten 
our collective resolve to build lasting peace. The likes 
of terrorist organizations pose threats that have lasting 
repercussions, 
reverberating  across  borders.  The 
growing  refugee  crisis  reminds  us  that  we  should  all 
shoulder the burden of fighting the ideologies of hate 
and embrace the bonds of fraternity and solidarity.
forward 
to 
Looking 
the  Climate  Change 
Conference  in  Paris,  let  us  use  the  little  time  that  is 
left to build further momentum and support in order to 
reach an ambitious and universal agreement to combat 
climate change. Paris is not just another international 
negotiation. It will be the crucial and decisive moment 
22/26 
15-29437
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.17
of  choice  for  all  of  us.  We  cannot  allow  ourselves  to 
be  condemned  to  the  wrong  side  of  history  by  our 
collective failure to reach an agreement. The stakes are 
too high. An agreement is within our reach, provided 
we  are  able  to  summon  the  collective  political  will 
and  leadership.  The  time  is  now.  We  can  make  it 
happen.  We  must  make  it  happen.  We  must  fulfil  the 
promises and commitments made, especially in terms 
of financing options to build climate resilience. In that 
regard,  we  call  on  all  developed  countries  to  honour 
their commitments for the mobilization of $100 billion 
annually  by  2020  for  the  operationalization  of  the 
Green Climate Fund.
Seychelles  is  one  of  the  smallest  Members  of  the 
United Nations family and will continue to play an active 
role in the Organization’s efforts to create a just and safer 
world. The observance of the seventieth anniversary of 
the United Nations is a unique opportunity to transform 
the  world  by  our  own  efforts  and  commitments  and 
to  ensure  that  collective  cooperation  and  partnership 
triumph  over  rivalry  and  mistrust.  In  that  spirit,  we 
salute the rapprochement between the United States of 
America and Cuba.
We  have  a  unique  opportunity  to  choose  the 
future we want for ourselves and for our youth and our 
children. We must give them a better deal because they 
deserve a better deal. Let us truly become what we are 
destined  to  be —  committed,  determined,  united  and 
empowered  nations  forging  our  future  together.  Yes, 
together.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Seychelles for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr. James Alix Michel, President of the Republic 
of  Seychelles,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Miloš Zeman, President of the 
Czech Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Czech Republic.
Mr. Miloš Zeman, President of the Czech Republic, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Miloš Zeman, 
President of the Czech Republic, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President Zeman: If a speaker has many topics in 
a short speech, he has none. If he has many priorities 
in his speech, he also has none. So let me concentrate 
on  a  one  topic  and  one  priority  —  the  fight  against 
international terrorism.
One  may  ask:  why  does  the  President  of  a  small 
Central  European  country  speak  about  terrorism? 
There  are  two  reasons.  First,  terrorism  is  outrage 
against human civilization and, at the same time, it is 
the  main  danger  for  human  civilization.  The  second 
reason is that today, as the Assembly is aware, nearly all 
European countries face a big migration wave that was 
provoked by and is a consequence of terrorist actions in 
the Middle East and in Africa.
It is wonderful to criticize terrorism. It is wonderful 
to organize demonstrations and manifestations against 
terrorism, and it is nice to prepare declarations protesting 
terrorism. I am sure that Mr. Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi, 
reading such declarations, will be careful. In any case, 
there are three illusions concerning terrorism.
The first illusion is that terrorism will vanish, that 
it  is  something  like  a  historical  fluctuation,  and  that 
we  can  eliminate  or  reduce  terrorist  actions  without 
human  endeavour  or  by  using  only  local  means.  On 
the  contrary,  the  terrorist  movement  is  growing  like 
a cancer. There is a diffusion of terrorism, a growing 
number  of  so-called  failed  States,  of  assassinations, 
cruelties,  murders,  annihilation  of  cultural  artefacts, 
such as the Palmyra ruins, and so on. We cannot deny 
this growing process.
The second illusion is that we can reduce terrorist 
organizations  to  the  so-called  Islamic  State  only.  But 
there  are  many  other  terrorist  organizations  —  for 
instance, Al-Qaida, the Taliban, Al-Nusra, Boko Haram 
and others. Two outstanding politicians from the Arab 
world told me that the cover organization is the Muslim 
Brotherhood.  If  so,  there  is  a  terrorism  network,  and 
that  network  cannot  be  reduced  simply  to  the  Islamic 
State.
The  third  illusion  is  based  on  a  standard  form  of 
warfare  against  terrorism.  We  know  that  nearly  all 
generals prepare for the previous war. What I propose 
15-29437
23/26
A/70/PV.17 
29/09/2015
for the fight against terrorism are no tanks, no infantry, 
no artillery. We need to seek new forms for the fight. 
Because  unilateral  actions  are  heavily  criticized  and, 
what  is  more,  have  been  completely  unsuccessful,  as 
in  the  case  of  Iraq,  I  do  not  recommend  any  massive 
occupation  of  any 
territory.  What  I  recommend 
is  a  coordinated  action,  under  the  umbrella  of  the 
Security  Council.  The  five  permanent  members  of 
the  Council  have  different  interests  but  one  common 
enemy,  and  nothing  unites  more  than  one  common 
enemy — terrorism. Here in New York, we remember 
11 September 2001; in Russia, we remember Beslan and 
Volgograd; in China we remember Xinjiang; in Europe 
we remember Madrid, London, Paris and Copenhagen; 
in India we remember Bombay, and so on.
There  is  one  good  precedent,  and  it  is  the 
unanimously  adopted  Security  Council  resolution 
2184  (2014),  concerning  pirates  in  Somalia,  including 
military  action  against  pirates.  Does  anyone  really 
think  that  the  pirates  are  more  dangerous  than  the 
terrorists? In the Charter of the United Nations, there 
are many, many Articles concerning the possibility of 
military action, and some of them are never activated. 
They  are  referred  to  as  the  sleeping  structures.  What 
we  need  is  to  activate  them.  We  need  small  military 
units equipped with drones, helicopters, cooperation of 
secret services, commandos or rangers — some kind of 
contingent of Blue Helmets — which would eliminate 
the  leaders  of  terrorist  organizations  and  their  nerve 
centres, and not the occupation of territory.
I firmly hope that some of the permanent members 
might propose such a resolution. If not, as a historical 
optimist,  I  might  add  a  conclusion  that  any  idea  goes 
through three phases. In the first phase, it is understood 
as  complete  nonsense.  In  the  second  phase,  it  is 
disputable,  and  in  the  third  phase,  it  is  as  evident  as 
the  Earth’s  movement  around  the  sun.  I  will  return 
next year, and deep in my heart, I do believe that my 
proposal will be disputable. When I come in 2017, I am 
sure that this proposal will be evident.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Czech  Republic  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr. Miloš Zeman, President of the Czech Republic, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour, 
President of the Republic of Yemen
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Yemen.
Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdrabuh 
Mansour  Hadi  Mansour,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Yemen, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Mansour (spoke in Arabic): On behalf of 
the people and the Government of Yemen, I would like 
to congratulate the President most warmly on presiding 
over the General Assembly at its seventieth session. I 
wish him every success.
I  have  come  today  from  the  brave  and  strategic 
city of Aden, which is experiencing great joy because 
it  has  been  liberated  from  the  Houthi  militia  and 
former  President  Saleh.  Yet  I  am  troubled  to  see  the 
degree  of  damage  that  was  left  in  the  wake  of  those 
criminal militias, including the destruction of the city 
and  the  violence  against  its  civilians.  The  tragedy  is 
continuing  in  the  cities  of  Taiz  and  Marib.  It  beggars 
the imagination to think that the number of martyrs just 
in Aden alone has reached 1,350, while the number of 
injured has reached 11,160. One can only imagine what 
the  numbers  are  in  Taiz,  Marib,  Al-Baydhah,  Abyan 
and other Yemeni cities.
Three  years  ago,  I  addressed  the  Assembly  and 
spoke of the different measures that we had undertaken 
in our country in order to ensure a successful political 
transition of power in a spirit of peace and in compliance 
with the initiative of the Gulf Cooperation Council and 
its implementation mechanism and pursuant to relevant 
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  (see  A/67/PV.9). 
I  said  then  that  Iran  was  hampering  that  process.  It 
was training Houthi militias and providing them with 
weapons, delivered by boat or by other vessels, in order 
to impose the Iranian model in Yemen.
Between  that  time  three  years  ago  and  today, 
we  have  worked  tirelessly  on  a  peaceful  political 
transition  aimed  at  preparing  the  broad,  year-long 
national  dialogue,  bringing  together  all  the  political 
forces  of  Yemen  and  setting  an  honourable  precedent 
24/26 
15-29437
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.17
in our country and the region. That was followed by a 
transparent process for drafting a secular, democratic 
modern  constitution.  The  Assembly  followed  the 
political time lines and dates as they arose and provided 
direct  support.  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  also 
provided  direct  support  and  visited  our  country.  All 
elements  of  Yemeni  society,  including  the  Houthis, 
were part of the process. In addition, there have been 
visits  by  the  Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General 
and  the  Security  Council,  as  well  as  the  adoption  of 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  and  presidential 
statements.
Despite all that, as the political transition process 
was drawing to a close and just when the constitution 
was supposed to be submitted to a popular referendum, 
the  Houthis  and  Saleh  staged  a  military  and  political 
coup d’état, occupying the capital, Sana’a, and wreaking 
havoc on hospitals, mosques, Quranic schools, homes 
and  residences.  Every  form  of  weaponry  was  used, 
including  arms  from  the  Yemeni  army.  The  tragedies 
in  Aden,  Taiz  and  Ad  Dali  could  be  characterized  as 
genocide. Indeed, it was a desperate attempt to impose 
the  Iranian  model  through  the  use  of  force.  Political 
leaders and thousands of citizens either disappeared or 
were killed. The media were also affected. Thousands 
of  children  were  forcibly  conscripted,  anti-personnel 
mines were planted and schools, public buildings and 
homes  were  converted  into  weapons  storage  facilities 
and  barracks.  Houthi  militia  threatened  to  spread  to 
neighbouring  countries,  thereby  endangering  regional 
and international peace and security.
We  attempted  to  have  a  dialogue  with  Saleh 
and  the  Houthis,  giving  them  immunity  and  every 
opportunity  and  including  them  in  national  dialogue, 
but they retained their weapons and refused to create a 
political party in accordance with established law. That 
was all accepted despite the events that took place in 
2004.  Saleh’s  fight  has  never  been  a  peaceful  one,  as 
was, for example, the peaceful southern movement, in 
Sa’dah province, which saw its citizens expelled. The 
Houthis seized military areas and took control by force. 
Despite our positive approach to that armed movement 
and various understandings with the Houthi movement, 
agreements were repeatedly cast aside and a coup d’état 
was  carried  out  against  the  State,  and  people  were 
maltreated and severely punished.
Nations.  We  appealed  for  assistance  in  tackling  the 
Houthi militias that were undermining and threatening 
national legitimacy. The response was courageous. Our 
brother  His  Majesty  Salman  Bin  Abdulaziz  Al-Saud, 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia,  acted  with  utter 
determination. On behalf of the Yemeni people, I would 
like to convey our sincere thanks to His Majesty King 
Salman  and  to  all  members  of  the  coalition  who  are 
pursuing  efforts  to  assist  the  Yemeni  people.  We  are 
joined together in blood in this battle for our country 
and for the legitimacy of the State in order to prevent 
the country from falling into the hands of Iran, which 
would like to see the destruction of the country and to 
control the Bab al-Mandab strait.
The Yemeni people have opposed attempts by the 
Houthis in Aden, Abyan, Al-Baydhah, Taiz, Hodeidah 
and other cities of Yemen. The people have upheld the 
law. I would like to commend the efforts of the brave 
national resistance and the national armed forces, who 
are  indeed  our  partners  in  struggle  and  in  victory, 
construction and development. The Assembly is aware 
of the human tragedy that has befallen our people as a 
result  of  the  blockade  imposed  by  the  militias,  which 
continue their coup d’état. The Assembly is also aware 
of the deterioration and destruction of public services 
in  liberated  provinces.  Greater  international  effort  is 
needed to alleviate the human suffering and to ensure 
that the Yemeni crisis is not forgotten. While the United 
Nations  has  announced  an  appeal  for  humanitarian 
assistance for Yemen, annual contributions continue to 
fall short and cover only a meagre portion of the actual 
need.
I therefore take this opportunity to appeal once again 
to donor countries to ensure that they provide promised 
assistance. The Government of the Republic of Yemen 
would like to see the arrival of emergency humanitarian 
assistance to provide for all provinces without exception. 
An oversight mechanism for humanitarian convoys, as 
proposed  by  the  United  Nations,  would  allow  for  the 
return of economic prosperity and would facilitate the 
arrival of humanitarian assistance through all Yemeni 
ports.  Furthermore,  the  Government  has  been  moved 
to  Aden.  I  believe  that  that  will  lead  to  better  living 
conditions for our citizens. It will also re-establish basic 
services, which have been destroyed by the militias of 
the Houthis and Saleh.
The actions of the Houthi militias, as well as those 
of Saleh, led us to appeal to neighbouring countries in 
the Gulf under Article 51 of the Charter of the United 
Without a doubt, and quite clearly, that remains the 
best way for me to remain side by side with my heroic 
and steadfast people. That has been our position since 
15-29437
25/26
A/70/PV.17 
29/09/2015
the very beginning of the conflict. We have cooperated 
with all genuine efforts on the part of the international 
community and, in particular, with those of Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  Mr.  Ismail  Ould  Cheikh 
Ahmed,  the  Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General, 
to  end  the  coup  d’état,  pursuant  to  Security  Council 
resolution  2216  (2015).  Since  that  resolution,  the 
political  process  has  been  resumed,  guided  by  the 
results  of  the  national  dialogue  and  facilitated  by  the 
Gulf Cooperation Council.
Allow  me  to  reiterate  that  all  efforts  to  achieve 
a  peaceful  settlement  of  the  political  crisis  should  be 
welcomed  and  supported.  Once  again,  I  would  like 
to  convey  to  the  rebels,  the  Houthi-Saleh  militias, 
that  they  must  lay  down  their  weapons,  act  in  line 
with  reason  and  implement  resolution  2216  (2015)  in 
earnest. I have come here to support peace and accord. 
I  am  talking  not  about  a  divisive  peace  but  rather  of 
a  permanent  peace  that  will  be  a  source  of  law  and 
order, cohesion and justice. Allow me to advocate for 
the literal implementation of the most recent Security 
Council  resolution,  namely,  resolution  2216  (2015), 
which bears the credibility of the Council itself. I hope 
that the efforts of the United Nations will be crowned 
with success. That will ensure that we act in accordance 
with  the  aspirations  of  our  people,  who  have  been 
exceedingly patient and sincere.
Terrorism represents a real threat to States. To the 
extent of our ability, we have tried to combat terrorism, 
against  which  we  have  conducted  a  determined 
campaign, in partnership with friendly countries. The 
coup  d’état  and  the  extremism  that  ensued  created 
a  breeding  ground  for  terrorism.  I  would  like  to 
reiterate,  however,  our  confidence  in  and  support  for 
the  Government,  which  is  leading  the  fight  against 
terrorism with international aid. Given the geographical 
and  strategic  location  of  Yemen,  the  stability  of  our 
country  buttresses  the  stability  of  the  region  and  the 
world.
The  seventieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
coincides  with  the  glorious  September  and  October 
revolutions of my country. I would like to express my 
thanks  and  gratitude  to  all  the  Yemeni  people,  who 
are a proud and patient people. I would like to restate 
my  commitment  to  achieving  the  goals  of  those  two 
glorious revolutions. We will not allow minority groups, 
Houthis or others, to repeat the Iranian experience in 
Yemen.  At  this  time,  70  years  since  the  birth  of  the 
United Nations, an Organization that has succeeded in 
lessening conflicts and wars through its very principles, 
we reiterate our commitment to working on behalf of 
future  generations.  That  represents  a  commitment  to 
those generations, as well as a commitment to making 
the world more prosperous, safer and free through unity 
and true determination to achieve the noble ambitions, 
on which our Organization was established.
The Republic of Yemen condemns in the strongest 
terms the systematic Israeli attacks against the Al-Aqsa 
Mosque. Once again, we express our permanent support 
for the Palestinian people, who are determined to protect 
the  Mosque.  A  question  necessarily  arises  regarding 
those recent events. A Government that was created by 
resolutions of the Security Council refuses to abide by 
those same resolutions. That is truly surprising.
I  would  like  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for his important efforts to achieve the noble 
ambition  of  our  Organization  to  ensure  international 
peace  and  security.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  him 
for his great and commendable efforts to promote the 
political  transition  in  Yemen,  reverse  the  coup  d’état 
and restore State authority. We wish every success to 
the General Assembly at its seventieth session.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Yemen for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
26/26 
15-29437
