United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
42nd plenary meeting
Wednesday, 28 October 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.42
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  González 
Franco (Paraguay), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 113
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and 
other elections
(a) Election of seven members of the Committee for 
Programme and Coordination
Note by the Secretary-General (A/70/355)
The  Acting  President:  Pursuant 
to  General 
Assembly  decision  42/450,  of  17  December  1987,  and 
upon nomination by the Economic and Social Council, 
the Assembly elects the members of the Committee for 
Programme and Coordination.
The  document  before  the  Assembly  contains  the 
nominations  by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to 
fill  the  vacancies  in  the  Committee  that  will  occur 
as a result of the expiration, on 31 December 2015, of 
the terms of office of Botswana, El Salvador, France, 
Peru, the Russian Federation and the United Republic 
of  Tanzania.  Those  States  are  eligible  for  immediate 
re-election.
I should like to remind members that, after 1 January 
2016, the following States will remain members of the 
Committee: Armenia, Belarus, Benin, Brazil, Burkina 
Faso,  Cameroon,  China,  Cuba,  Ethiopia,  Equatorial 
Guinea, Haiti, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Italy, Japan, 
Morocco, Namibia, Pakistan, Portugal, the Republic of 
Korea, Saudi Arabia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States 
of  America,  Uruguay  and  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela. Those 25 States are therefore not eligible in 
this election.
I  should  now  like  to  inform  members  that  the 
following States have been nominated by the Economic 
and  Social  Council:  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania 
and  Zimbabwe,  for  the  two  seats  among  the  African 
States; the Russian Federation, for the one seat among 
the  Eastern  European  States;  Argentina  and  Peru,  for 
the two seats among the Latin American and Caribbean 
States; and France, for one of the two seats among the 
Western European and other States.
In  accordance  with  rule  92  of  the  rules  of 
procedure, all elections should be held by secret ballot 
and there shall be no nominations. However, I should 
like to recall paragraph 16 of decision 34/401, whereby 
the  practice  of  dispensing  with  the  secret  ballot  for 
elections  to  subsidiary  organs  when  the  number  of 
candidates  corresponds  to  the  number  of  seats  to  be 
filled  should  become  standard,  unless  a  delegation 
specifically requests a vote on a given election.
In the absence of such a request, may I take it that 
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on the 
basis of dispensing with the secret ballot?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  The  number  of  States 
nominated from among the African States, the Eastern 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-33818 (E)
*1533818*
A/70/PV.42 
28/10/2015
European  States,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States,  and  the  Western  European  and  other  States  is 
equal  to  or  less  than  the  number  of  seats  to  be  filled 
in  each  of  those  groups.  May  I  therefore  take  it  that 
the Assembly wishes to declare those States nominated 
by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  —  namely, 
Argentina,  France,  Peru,  the  Russian  Federation,  the 
United Republic of Tanzania and Zimbabwe — elected 
members  of 
the  Committee  for  Programme  and 
Coordination for a three-year term of office beginning 
on 1 January 2016?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  I  congratulate  the  States 
that have just been elected members of the Committee 
for Programme and Coordination.
Members are reminded that the Economic and Social 
Council postponed the nomination of one member from 
the Western European and other States for election for a 
three-year term beginning on 1 January 2016. Members 
are also reminded that there remains one vacancy from 
among  the  Western  European  and  other  States,  for  a 
term  beginning  on  the  date  of  election  and  expiring 
on 31 December 2015, and one vacancy each from the 
Asia-Pacific States and the Western European and other 
States, for a term beginning on the date of election and 
expiring on 31 December 2017. The General Assembly 
will  be  in  a  position  to  act  on  these  vacancies  upon 
nomination by the Economic and Social Council.
We  have 
thus  concluded 
consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 113.
this  stage  of  our 
(e)  Election of eighteen members of the Human 
Rights Council
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
will now turn to sub-item (e) of agenda item 113 for the 
election of 18 members of the Human Rights Council 
to replace those members whose term of office expires 
on  31  December  2015.  The  18  outgoing  members  are 
as  follows:  Argentina,  Brazil,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Estonia, 
Ethiopia, Gabon, Germany, Ireland, Japan, Kazakhstan, 
Kenya, Montenegro, Pakistan, the Republic of Korea, 
Sierra  Leone,  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  the  United 
States  of  America  and  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela.
In accordance with paragraph 7 of resolution 60/251, 
of  15  March  2006,  those  Member  States  are  eligible 
for  immediate  re-election,  except  the  delegation  that 
has served two consecutive terms, namely, the United 
States of America.
The  18  vacant  seats  should  be  distributed  among 
the regional groups as follows: five seats for the African 
States, five seats for the Asia-Pacific States, two seats 
for  the  Eastern  European  States,  three  seats  for  the 
Latin American and Caribbean States, and three seats 
for the Western European and other States.
In  accordance  with 
The  General  Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  the 
election  of  the  18  members  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council. 
resolution  60/251, 
membership in the Council shall be open to all States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  and  the  members  of 
the  Council  shall  serve  for  a  period  of  three  years. 
The  members  of  the  Council  shall  be  elected  directly 
and  individually,  by  secret  ballot,  by  the  majority  of 
the  members  of  the  General  Assembly.  Accordingly, 
97 votes constitute a majority in the General Assembly, 
which has a membership of 193 States.
In accordance with paragraphs 4 and 5 of resolution 
65/281, of 17 June 2011, beginning in 2013 the Human 
Rights Council started its yearly membership cycle on 
1 January and, as a transitional measure, the period of 
office of members of the Human Rights Council ending 
in June 2015 was exceptionally extended until the end 
of the calendar year.
The following States will continue to be members 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council:  Albania,  Algeria, 
Bangladesh, 
the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia, 
Botswana,  China,  the  Congo,  Cuba,  El  Salvador, 
France,  Ghana,  India,  Indonesia,  Latvia,  Maldives, 
Mexico, Morocco, Namibia, the Netherlands, Nigeria, 
Paraguay,  Portugal,  Qatar,  the  Russian  Federation, 
Saudi  Arabia,  South  Africa,  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland and Viet Nam. The names 
of those States therefore should not appear on the ballot 
papers.
The  election  will  be  held  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant rules of procedure of the General Assembly on 
elections. For this election, rules 92 and 94 of the rules 
of procedure shall be applied.
Consistent  with 
the  practice  of 
the  General 
Assembly, if more than the required number of Member 
States  have  obtained  the  votes  of  the  majority  of  the 
members  of  the  Assembly  on  the  same  ballot,  those 
Member  States  that  have  obtained  the  largest  number 
2/5 
15-33818
28/10/2015 
A/70/PV.42
of votes above the required majority will be considered 
as elected, up to the number of seats to be filled.
Also, consistent with past practice, if, in case of a 
tie vote, it should become necessary to determine one 
candidate to be elected or that will proceed to the next 
round  of  restricted  balloting,  there  will  be  a  special 
restricted  ballot  limited  to  those  candidates  that  have 
obtained an equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
these procedures?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  Accordingly,  the  election 
shall  be  held  by  secret  ballot,  and  there  shall  be  no 
nominations.
Again,  I  should  like  to  repeat  that  the  18  vacant 
seats are to be filled from among the regional groups as 
follows: five seats from among the African States, five 
seats  from  among  the  Asia-Pacific  States,  two  seats 
from  among  the  Eastern  European  States,  three  seats 
from among the Latin American and Caribbean States, 
and three seats from among the Western European and 
other States. The ballot papers reflect that pattern.
I  have  also  been  informed  by  the  Secretariat  that 
voluntary pledges and commitments made by Member 
States,  in  accordance  with  paragraph  8  of  resolution 
60/251,  were  issued,  when  received  on  time,  before 
the  elections,  as  official  documents  of  the  seventieth 
session of the General Assembly.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that, pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly, no representative 
shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order 
on the actual conduct of the voting. In addition, ballot 
papers will be given only to the representative seated 
directly behind the country’s nameplate.
that,  during 
I  should  like  to  seek  the  usual  cooperation  of 
representatives  during  the  time  when  the  General 
Assembly  is  conducting  the  elections.  Please  be 
reminded 
the  voting  procedure,  all 
campaigning  should  cease  in  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. That means that, once the voting has begun, no 
more  campaign  material  can  be  distributed  inside  the 
Hall.  All  representatives  are  requested  to  remain  at 
their seats so that the voting process can proceed in an 
orderly manner. I should also like to remind delegations 
to refrain from extending congratulations in the General 
15-33818
Assembly  Hall  right  after  the  announcement  of  the 
elected members. This is disruptive to the distribution 
of ballot papers for any subsequent rounds of balloting. 
I thank all representatives for their cooperation.
I would also like to remind members of the media 
not  to  focus  their  cameras  on  delegations  during  the 
voting process, taking into account that this is a secret 
ballot in accordance with the rules of procedure of the 
General Assembly. I thank all representatives for their 
cooperation.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot 
papers marked “A”, “B”, “C”, “D” and “E” will now be 
distributed. Each ballot paper is assigned to one of the 
five regional groups and has the corresponding number 
of blank lines for the seats assigned to that region.
I  request  representatives  to  use  only  those  ballot 
papers  and  to  write  on  them  the  names  of  the  States 
for which they wish to vote. A ballot paper containing 
more names from the relevant region than the number 
of seats assigned to it will be declared invalid. A ballot 
paper will also be declared invalid if none of the names 
of  the  Member  States  on  that  ballot  belong  to  the 
relevant  region.  If  a  ballot  paper  of  a  region  includes 
both  the  names  of  Member  States  that  belong  to  and 
that are from outside of that region, the ballot remains 
valid,  but  only  the  names  of  the  Member  States  that 
belong to the relevant region will be counted. If a ballot 
paper  contains  names  of  Member  States  that  are  not 
eligible for re-election or that are currently members of 
the Council, the ballot remains valid but those names 
will not be counted.
At the invitation of the Acting President, Mr. Hajiyev 
(Azerbaijan),  Ms.  Mosli  (Brunei  Darussalam), 
Miss  Johnson  (Jamaica),  Mrs.  Oanţă  (Romania), 
Ms.  Lyngdorf  (Sweden)  and  Mr.  Katota  (Zambia) 
acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.35  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.55 a.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
as follows:
Group A — African States
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions: 
192
0
192
 0
3/5
A/70/PV.42 
28/10/2015
Number of members voting:  
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
Togo  
Ethiopia  
Côte d’Ivoire  
Kenya  
Burundi  
Uganda  
Cameroon  
Benin  
Lesotho  
Group B — Asia-Pacific States
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting: 
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
172
Mongolia  
159
United Arab Emirates  
147
Kyrgyzstan  
136
Republic of Korea  
113
Philippines  
105
Lao People’s Democratic Republic  
Pakistan  
105
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea   1
Kazakhstan  
1
1
Thailand  
Group C — Eastern European States
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
Slovenia  
Georgia  
Romania  
Hungary  
179
177
1
1
Group D — Latin American and Caribbean States
Number of ballot papers:  
192
0
Number of invalid ballots:  
192
Number of valid ballots:  
0
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
192
192
97
189
186
186
180
162
12
2
1
1
192
0
192
0
192
97
192
1
191
4
187
97
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
Panama  
Ecuador  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)  
Bahamas  
97
157
152
131
113
Group E — Western European and other States
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
192
2
190
7
183
97
Switzerland  
Germany  
Belgium  
Luxembourg  
Sweden 
176
174
172
1
1
The  Acting  President:  The  following  18  States 
have just been elected members of the Human Rights 
Council  for  a  three-year  term  of  office  beginning  on 
1  January  2016:  Belgium,  Burundi,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Ecuador,  Ethiopia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Kenya, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Mongolia,  Panama,  the  Philippines,  the 
Republic  of  Korea,  Slovenia,  Switzerland,  Togo,  the 
United Arab Emirates and the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela.
I congratulate those States that have been elected 
members of the Human Rights Council, and I thank the 
tellers for their assistance in this election.
The Assembly has thus concluded its consideration 
of sub-item (e) of agenda item 113.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  make  the 
following  announcement  concerning  the  work  of  the 
plenary. The consideration of agenda item 39, entitled 
“The  situation  in  Afghanistan”,  originally  scheduled 
for  Thursday,  29  October  2015,  will  now  take  place 
on Monday, 30 November. The joint debate on agenda 
item  119,  entitled  “Implementation  of  the  resolutions 
of the United Nations”, and agenda item 120, entitled 
“Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly”, 
originally scheduled for Monday, 2 November, will now 
take place on Tuesday, 3 November. The consideration 
of  agenda 
the 
item  118,  entitled  “Follow-up 
to 
4/5 
15-33818
28/10/2015 
A/70/PV.42
commemoration  of  the  two-hundredth  anniversary  of 
the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade”, originally 
scheduled  for  Tuesday,  3  November,  will  now  take 
place on Wednesday, 4 November.
The meeting rose at noon.
15-33818
5/5
