United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
5th plenary meeting
Friday, 25 September 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.5
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
High-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly
Agenda items 15 and 116 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
United Nations Summit for the adoption of the 
post-2015 development agenda
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Raimonds  Vējonis, 
President of the Republic of Latvia.
Mr. Raimonds Vējonis, President of the Republic of 
Latvia, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Vējonis: Today, we, the world’s leaders, 
take  on  a  great  responsibility.  The  peoples  whom  the 
United Nations stand to represent want to see if we are 
capable of transforming our world in order to overcome 
poverty and to ensure a decent life for all. The people 
we each represent at home should be informed that all 
countries and all stakeholders have worked together to 
design this truly universal agenda. The scope of current 
challenges is too broad and our vision is too grand to be 
achieved by any one country acting alone. We will help 
to do that by working effectively together. In one way 
or another, we are all on board, and we all should bring 
this ambitious plan into action. If left unattended, the 
challenges  will  become  progressively  more  difficult. 
That is why we are here to give guidance on the way 
forward.  The  new  agenda  reflects  evenly  shared 
challenges  for  policymaking  and  implementation.  It 
gives us a common destination and the comprehensive 
means for achieving it.
I am a biologist by training. But one does not need 
to be a biologist to be concerned about climate change, 
loss  of  biodiversity,  air  pollution  and  access  to  safe 
drinking  water.  One  does  not  need  to  be  a  lawyer  or 
a statesman to know that access to quality education, 
health  care  and  social  protection,  good  governance, 
justice and respect for human rights, will work for the 
benefit of all.
It is a great collective achievement that the rule of 
law and good governance are highlighted and recognized 
as universal principles in the new development Agenda. 
From  our  experience  with  transition,  Latvia  has  seen 
that  these  principles  are  the  backbone  of  social  and 
economic transformation and should be entrenched in 
the national value systems in promoting zero tolerance 
for corruption. If justice systems do not work, if public 
administration  is  inefficient  and  lacks  transparency, 
if  a  Government  disregards  human  rights,  the  very 
foundations  of  a  peaceful  and  safe  society  are 
undermined.
Modern technology and e-governance offer a unique 
opportunity  to  build  trust  between  policymakers  and 
civil society. In Latvia, citizens can propose initiatives 
to  the  Parliament  through  an  online  petition  platform 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29155 (E)
*1529155 *
A/70/PV.5 
25/09/2015
and, if a proposed initiative gathers enough signatures, 
the idea can be enacted into law. 
Inclusive  political  processes  and  responsiveness 
to  public  needs  are  woven  into  the  fabric  of  just  and 
stable  societies,  particularly  with  respect  to  women 
and girls, who represent half of the world’s population. 
The  new  Agenda  provides  us  all  with  an  opportunity 
to  end  the  persistent  inequalities,  discrimination  and 
violence that the world’s women and girls confront on 
a daily basis. Gender equality and the empowerment of 
women and girls is not only a matter of social justice, 
it also contributes to economic growth and sustainable 
development.
In  Latvia,  we  have  seen  how  that  works.  Women 
become  senior  Government  officials  and  reach  top 
positions  in  business  management.  Latvia  has  the 
seventh-highest  proportion  of  women 
in  middle 
and  senior  management  positions  in  the  world.  The 
empowerment of women in Latvia has occurred because 
the  Constitution,  our  education  system  and  public 
opinion support this goal. When men and women have 
equal rights and equal opportunities, societies function 
better. Domestically, we support gender equality with 
the  awareness  that  doing  so  makes  a  stronger  nation. 
Likewise, acknowledging gender equality as a universal 
value makes the United Nations stronger. With women 
and  men  having  equal  rights  to  participate  and  take 
on  leadership  roles  at  all  levels,  the  international 
community will become stronger and more efficient.
Today  we  come  to  terms  with  a  simple  truth: 
present and future social, economic and environmental 
challenges that our planet is facing are interlinked. We 
must  coordinate  our  efforts  more  fully  in  addressing 
these challenges. While each country has the primary 
responsibility  for 
its  own  economic  and  social 
development, it should be underlined that the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  have  been  developed  by  all 
countries and are applicable to everyone. Every country 
should  be  held  accountable  for  the  implementation  of 
these crucial goals. Each one of us has a decisive role to 
play in charting the course of history.
We are looking ahead to a time 15 years from now 
when we can proudly say that we have given people a 
real chance to rise above the poverty line and that we 
have done that on a global scale. 
The President: I thank the President of the Republic 
of Latvia for his statement. 
Mr. Raimonds Vējonis, President of the Republic of 
Latvia, was escorted from the rostrum. 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of El Salvador. 
Mr.  Salvador  Sánchez  Cerén,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  El  Salvador,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
President  Sánchez  Cerén  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
For  the  people  of  Salvador,  today’s  Summit,  which 
will define the fate of humankind, is taking place in a 
special year, the year of the beatification of our martyr 
Archbishop  Óscar  Arnulfo  Romero  y  Galdámez. 
The  beatification  of  his  universal  voice  will  assist  in 
fulfilling  the  objectives  of  this  international  meeting. 
Monsignor  Romero  worked  and  gave  his  life  for  the 
very  ideals  of  justice  and  human  dignity  that  we  are 
proposing today. The message of courage and peace of 
the blessed Romero also guides us in this Summit and 
give us momentum to build well-being and happiness 
in the world.
On  behalf  of  the  Government  of  El  Salvador,  I 
would like to say that we are honoured to be part of this 
historic moment for humankind. Today we begin a new 
stage where we undertake not to leave anyone behind, 
by  adopting  an  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
of universal character (resolution 70/1). We build upon 
the  major  efforts  made  to  achieve  the  objectives  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which 
allowed  substantial  progress  to  be  made  even  though 
all goals were not met at the global level. 
In  El  Salvador  we  made  significant  progress  in 
achieving the MDGs, even though we faced enormous 
environmental  and  economic  difficulties,  droughts, 
earthquakes  and  tropical  storms,  such  as    Tropical 
Storm 12E, which caused damage equivalent in value 
to 4 per cent of our gross domestic product in 2011. In 
spite of all that, El Salvador has made important strides 
in recent years on social issues and has achieved most of 
the objectives set forth in the Millennium Development 
Goals.  Since  2009,  we  have  decided  to  make  social 
issues  the  State’s  main  priority  by  implementing 
public  policies  related  to  equitable  socioeconomic 
inclusion, public safety and environmental protection. 
When  my  Government  came  to  power,  in  2014,  we 
strengthened  the  State’s  ability  to  fulfil  its  social 
responsibilities and improved the system for providing 
environmental  protection  and  gradually  recovering 
damaged  ecosystems.  We  strengthened  the  basis  of  a 
2/25 
15-29155
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.5
system of universal social protection with an emphasis 
on policies and strategies that favour vulnerable groups 
and improving infrastructure and basic services. 
living 
We are proud to tell the world that now in El Salvador 
all public school students receive educational materials, 
uniforms,  shoes  and  food  for  free.  We  have  achieved 
universality  in  the  delivery  to  our  people  of  quality 
public  health  services  with  a  human  touch.  In  2012, 
we  surpassed  the  goal  of  reducing  the  number  of 
households 
in  extreme  poverty.  By  2013, 
primary education covered 93 per cent of the applicable 
population, and with the commitment of thousands of 
young  volunteers,  we  worked  to  eradicate  illiteracy. 
El  Salvador  exceeded  the  targets  relating  to  reducing 
maternal mortality, increasing households with access 
to safe drinking water and promoting gender equality 
and the empowerment of women. We will continue to 
work  on  the  agreed  development  goals  and  the  new 
goals we have adopted today.
Humankind is going through great transformations 
in  all  areas,  and  there  is  a  growing  consensus  among 
nations  that  development  must  at  all  times  make  the 
human being the central focus and ultimate end of its 
objectives.  Based  on  the  painful  experiences  of  war 
and conflict that many countries, including ours, have 
suffered,  we  must  undertake  with  responsibility  and 
courage a commitment to life and peacebuilding.
Life on the planet, with all its biological and cultural 
diversity, continues to be in danger. Mother Nature is 
calling us on the centuries of abuse to which we have 
subjected her. This Summit represents an unprecedented 
opportunity,  as  the  resolution  we  have  adopted  is  the 
first-ever to have been drafted with contributions from 
every  country  and  involving  the  active  participation 
of civil society. We are presented with an opportunity 
to  decide  together  on  a  path  for  improving  the  lives 
of our peoples. We seize this opportunity. Experience 
has  taught  us  that,  to  achieve  essential  sustainable 
development, 
international  community  should 
address  equality  among  countries  and  regions  while 
respecting  sovereignty  and  the  principle  of  common 
but  differentiated  responsibility,  as  well  as  countries’ 
vulnerabilities and particular problems.
the 
to  achieve 
We  know  that,  for  the  fulfilment  of  the  post-
2015  Agenda  and 
the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  it  is  essential  to  build  a  new 
model  of  international  cooperation,  expand  South-
South cooperation and change the current structure of 
development financing. It is necessary that the review 
of  the  system  of  financing  for  development  be  based 
on  a  comprehensive  and  multifaceted  vision  in  terms 
of  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  It 
is  also  imperative  that  developing  countries  be  duly 
represented  in  the  process  of  reviewing  the  structure 
of  the  financial  system  in  order  to  increase  their 
participation in defining and establishing international 
standards and in decision-making.
The Government of El Salvador is implementing a 
five-year development plan based on the spirit embodied 
in the 2000 Millennium Summit. To realize this plan, 
we are relying on the valuable support and assistance of 
friendly countries and strategic partners with which we 
are carrying out high-impact projects, such as the City 
of Women, FOMILENIO II, a clean-energy-generation 
programme, the City of Childhood and Adolescence, a 
programme entitled “A Boy, A Girl, A Computer”, and 
much more in the areas of   health, public safety, justice 
and social inclusion and in strengthening dialogue and 
national  understanding,  which  are  key  to  deepening 
democracy.
I  welcome  in  particular  the  support  that  has 
contributed to sustainable development in my country. 
We hope that our partners will continue their invaluable 
contribution to ensuring that we comply with the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. I am convinced 
that  only  by  uniting  wills,  capabilities  and  resources 
can  we  achieve  the  objectives  and  targets  set  for  the 
next 15 years.
to  emphasize 
that 
To  conclude,  I  wish 
the 
commitments that we assume today do not apply only to 
future generations. They are a necessity for the present 
generation  as  well.  I  invite  the  General  Assembly  to 
make  the  transition  from  words  to  deeds  with  unity, 
courage and hope, and without hesitation. That is what 
our peoples expect from us.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic 
of El Salvador for his statement. 
Mr.  Salvador  Sánchez  Cerén,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  El  Salvador,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Togolese Republic. 
Mr. Faure Essozimna Gnassingbé, President of the 
Togolese Republic, was escorted to the rostrum. 
President Gnassingbé (spoke in French): I would 
like  to  commend  the  important  step  that  the  great 
15-29155
3/25
A/70/PV.5 
25/09/2015
United  Nations  family  has  made  in  taking  on  the 
global  vision  of  post-2015  development  as  set  out  in 
resolution 70/1. Even if it has been modest and uneven, 
the progress that the regions concerned have been able 
to accomplish to date opens for us the way to deal with 
the new Sustainable Development Goals we set today 
with renewed vitality.
The  first  factor  for  success  in  achieving  the  new 
goals is the ownership that the people we represent at 
this Summit take in them. If we are to fully realize our 
Agenda, we need to adapt the goals to our regional and 
national  contexts  and  to  the  diversity  of  our  cultures. 
In  that  context,  I  am  pleased  that  His  Holiness  Pope 
Francis  was  able  to  generously  share  with  us  this 
morning  (see  A/70/PV.3)  his  just  view  of  the  moral, 
human  and  religious  requirements  that  we  must  not 
lose sight of in our quest for sustainable and inclusive 
development. 
In  the  same  vein,  we  must  pay  close  attention  to 
the urgent appeal launched in June 2015 by the Bishops 
of  Africa  and  Madagascar.  Through  their  appeal, 
they  expressed  their  conviction  that  the  development 
that our people earnestly aspire to cannot come at the 
expense  of  their  core  values,  including  with  respect 
to  life  and  family.  That  is  why  the  Bishops  of  Africa 
and Madagascar offer us a more integral vision of the 
human person that takes into account the rich cultural 
heritage  of  Africa  and  the  moral  values    to  which  it 
remains committed.
Whatever  the  results  of  our  individual  countries 
in the implementation of the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs),  the  most  important  today  is  probably 
to  know  how  to  build  on  the  sum  of  the  experiences 
of  each  of  us  in  order  to  project  ourselves  resolutely 
into the future. In that context, I would like to express 
my  gratitude  to  the  Organization  for  involving  my 
country,  Togo,  in  the  process  of  preparing  the  post-
2015 development agenda. We are particularly pleased 
to have been selected, together with Belize, as a pilot 
country  for  trying  out  the  new  planning  approach  for 
integrating  sustainable  development.  Through  that 
initiative, Togo was able to assist in the consideration 
of  Agenda  2022.  It  also  strengthened  its  national 
programme  for  capacity-building  and  modernization 
of  the  State  for  sustainable  development.  Togo’s 
experience  in  this  field  has  demonstrated  once  again 
that development is based essentially on human factors. 
That  is  why  we  have  resolved  to  commit  for  the  long 
term  to  the  capacity-building  efforts  of  development 
actors at all levels.
I would like to recall the extent to which our fates 
are  now  linked.  The  effectiveness  of  the  national 
development effort also depends upon the international 
context.  It  depends  upon  our  ability  to  achieve  the 
security  prerequisites  without  which  no  sustainable 
action can be considered.
When we consider how much maritime insecurity 
and  the  major  environmental  risks  hanging  over  our 
marine areas are costing our economies, there is only 
one possible conclusion: the sea and oceans are at the 
heart  of  the  issues  of  sustainable  development.  Based 
on  that  observation,  the  African  Union  Commission 
and Togo have agreed to organize in 2016 the African 
Union  extraordinary  summit  on  maritime  security 
and safety and development in Africa. I therefore take 
this  opportunity  today  to  call  on  the  international 
community  to  remain  mobilized  so  that  the  Lomé 
conference  that  we  are  actively  preparing  will  be  a 
success. I am deeply convinced that such success will 
enable us to take a qualitative leap forward in achieving 
the Sustainable Development Goals.
The President: I thank the President of the Togolese 
Republic for his statement. 
Mr. Faure Essozimna Gnassingbé, President of the 
Togolese Republic, was escorted from the rostrum. 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Chile. 
Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of  the 
Republic of Chile, was escorted to the rostrum. 
President Bachelet Jeria (spoke in Spanish): Chile 
is pleased to sign onto this agreement, as it will allow 
us  to  work  for  a  better  present  and  future  for  all  the 
countries  that  make  up  the  General  Assembly.  From 
now on, we will have an Agenda that addresses the great 
challenges  of  a  reality  that  does  not  allow  for  further 
delay. What we do or fail to do today will determine our 
fate in the coming decades. 
We  acknowledge  the  enormous  value  of  the 
agreement  reached  because  it  is  commensurate  with 
the  demands  of  today’s  world  and  was  drafted  with 
the participation of civil society, which gives it greater 
strength. This Agenda did not come out of nowhere, nor 
is it naive. We have the experience of the Millennium 
Development  Goals,  which  allowed  us  to  make  our 
4/25 
15-29155
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.5
efforts  converge  and  achieve  results  with  respect  to 
shared goals. 
Among the various achievements reached in Latin 
America were the reduction of poverty by 20 percentage 
points,  better  income  distribution,  diminution  by  half 
of  the  proportion  of  people  suffering  from  hunger, 
guaranteed access for girls to primary, secondary and 
higher education, and the cutting by two thirds of the 
number of deaths among children under 5 years. 
Now,  with  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1),  we  have  committed 
to  an  action  plan  to  coordinate  national,  regional  and 
global efforts. We know that, because of the magnitude 
and  complexity  of  new  challenges,  the  individual 
actions  of  countries  will  need  to  be  accompanied  by 
efforts  to  work  together.  We  also  know  that  each 
country  can  participate  in  the  financing  mechanisms 
that  are  required,  in  accordance  with  its  abilities  and 
particularities. 
The point is that it is now time for action, so that 
our  efforts  are  consistent  with  the  17  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  It  is  a  commitment  that  in  Chile 
we are undertaking with reforms that are already under 
way. It is not an easy path, but we are working to ensure 
fully  paid-for  quality  education,  true  gender  parity, 
development that is harmonious with the environment, 
and  balanced  relationships  between  employer  and 
workers,  so  that  ultimately  there  is  a  solid  basis  for 
social cohesion.
Because  it  is  a  matter  of  specific  commitments, 
each  country  must  focus  its  strengths  on  the  urgent 
change that our times require and that this framework 
of  working  together  demands.  We  all  have  a  duty  to 
perform.  Accordingly,  Chile  will  continue  to  meet 
global challenges in Latin America and the Caribbean 
while  promoting  economic  integration,  security  and 
peace  and  programmes  in  favour  of  South-South 
cooperation.
We  should  not  forget  that  in  our  region  there  are 
still about 71 million people who remain destitute and 
that inequality continues to be the main problem to be 
solved. More than 7.5 million of children under the age of 
5 still suffer from chronic malnutrition, and gender gaps 
persist in the workplace and in political participation. 
We  are  committed,  together  with  the  United  Nations 
community, to meeting the obligation to move forward 
together in the fight against hunger, injustice, inequality 
and pollution of the land and oceans. As is required by 
the Sustainable Development Agenda, we must look at 
the  present  with  the  responsibility  of  one  who  comes 
to  a  decisive  crossroads  where  the  survival  and  the 
development of our peoples are at stake. 
Today we can take steps to build a more just world 
and  deliver  a  better  quality  of  life  for  millions  of 
inhabitants of the world. But if we do not act resolutely 
or with the gravity that the situation requires, we will 
surely not have the chance to do so tomorrow. That is 
the extent of the challenge being faced by our nations 
and our leaders. It is the scale of the challenge that we 
are  undertaking  in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  which  we  must  also  face  at  the 
twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change in Paris.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic 
of Chile for her statement.
Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of  the 
Republic of Chile, was escorted from the rostrum. 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Malawi. 
Mr.  Arthur  Peter  Mutharik,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi, was escorted to the rostrum. 
President Mutharika: It is a pleasure for me and 
my delegation to be part of this event, at which we have 
adopted the post-2015 development agenda (resolution 
70/1).
Malawi  welcomed  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) because they established the benchmark 
for  global  development  policy.  At  the  national  level, 
Malawi  implemented  the  MDGs  through  a  number 
of  medium-term  development  strategies  that  we,  as  a 
country,  developed.  Those  medium-term  development 
strategies  mainstreamed  the  MDGs  and  ensured  that 
their implementation was financed through the national 
budget  framework.  Therefore, 
the  mainstreaming 
into  national  strategies  simplified 
of 
implementation of the goals because they formed part 
of our sector activities.
the  MDGs 
I would now like to turn to the progress that Malawi 
has made in achieving the MDGs. It has become clear 
that Malawi has managed to achieve only four of the eight 
MDGs — namely, reducing child mortality; combating 
HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other  diseases;  ensuring 
environmental  sustainability;  and  developing  global 
partnerships  for  development.  Malawi  has  therefore 
15-29155
5/25
A/70/PV.5 
25/09/2015
not  been  able  to  attain  the  gender-related  MDGs, 
including  eradicating  extreme  poverty  and  hunger; 
achieving  universal  primary  education;  promoting 
gender equality and the empowerment of women; and 
improving maternal health. Therefore, as Malawi starts 
implementing 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs),  there  will  be  a  need  to  seriously  take  a  keen 
interest in implementing the gender-related goals. That 
will, inter alia, ensure that our women are empowered 
and that the girl child is assured of finishing her basic 
education.
We  learned  a  number  of  lessons  during  the 
implementation of the MDGs, including the importance 
of  localizing  international  commitments,  the  use  of 
“smart”  indicators  in  measuring  progress,  the  value 
of  the  multi-stakeholder  approach  in  implementing 
development  frameworks,  the  need  for  resources  in 
implementing the MDGs, the role of interlinkages within 
the  MDGs,  the  impact  of  emerging  natural  disasters 
on  the  attainment  of  MDGs,  and  the  importance  of 
sustaining progress once implementation has begun. 
Malawi was part and parcel of the intergovernmental 
consultations  that  shaped  the  SDGs.  My  country  was 
selected as one of 50 countries for initial consultations 
done to provide information that formed the post-2015 
discussions on “the future we want”. Malawi therefore 
does not have any problems with the SDGs negotiations 
outcome  document,  because  it  reflects  the  wishes  of 
Malawians.  I  therefore  have  no  doubt  that  Malawi’s 
adopting the SDGs in their current form will serve the 
interests of Malawians.
My  country  realizes  that  localizing  international 
commitments is a sure way of implementing international 
commitments,  because  they  are  implemented  as  part 
of  sector  activities.  In  view  of  that,  the  localization 
of  SDGs  will  be  an  important  aspect  of  developing 
the  successor  to  the  country’s  development  strategy. 
Finally, as we adopt the SDGs, let us not forget to learn 
the lessons from the shortfalls in the implementation of 
the MDGs, especially for us, the developing countries.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic 
of Malawi for his statement.
Mr.  Arthur  Peter  Mutharika,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Guyana.
Mr.  David  Arthur  Granger,  President  of  the 
Republic of Guyana, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Granger: The Cooperative Republic of 
Guyana  is  honoured  to  participate  in  this  worldwide 
observance of the seventieth anniversary of the founding 
of  the  United  Nations.  This  event  coincides,  happily, 
with  the  adoption  of  a  worldwide,  transformative 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1).  These  twin  events  provide  the  opportunity  for 
us to reaffirm both our resolve to respect the founding 
principles of the United Nations and our commitment 
to  the  renewal  of  our  promise  to  pursue  development 
for all.
We embark upon this new Agenda by building on 
the  achievements  and  experiences  of  many  countries 
across  the  globe,  including  my  own,  in  implementing 
the Millennium Development Goals. We are conscious 
that in doing so the imperatives of strong and effective 
monitoring, the full integration of the economic, social 
and environmental dimensions and early and concrete 
actions  to  give  effect  to  the  global  partnership  for 
development will be given particular relevance.
Guyana is conscious of the fact that achieving the 
sustainable development goals for all will require high 
levels  of  political  commitment.  This  Summit  is  only 
a  start.  We  must  continue  to  work  with  one  another 
as States in the international community and to work 
together  with  our  own  people  within  our  countries. 
Unity of effort is essential to confront the difficult but 
necessary choices that must be made to realize the goal 
of sustainable development. Vigilance will be required 
from us as leaders, and from all stakeholders.
A 
reformed  and 
revitalized  United  Nations 
development system and intergovernmental machinery, 
including  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
High-level Political Forum, will be needed to exercise 
core functions in such a manner as to provide impetus, 
enable accountability and actualize course correction. 
There must be policy integration to address competing 
priorities and demands. We count on the United Nations 
system for effective support and guidance in that regard.
The Cooperative Republic of Guyana is of the view 
that the same spirit of understanding and cooperation 
that  attended  the  preparation  of  this  Agenda  should 
mark its implementation. Success will require nothing 
less. We have laid the basis for the implementation of the 
2030  Agenda.  The  means  of  implementation  outlined 
in  the  Agenda,  in  conjunction  with  the  provisions  of 
6/25 
15-29155
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.5
the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, will be critical to the 
realization of the Sustainable Development Goals and 
targets. We recognize that all sources of financing will 
be required to contribute to the implementation of the 
2030 Agenda. All countries, developed and developing, 
will be required to play positive roles in accordance with 
their diverse circumstances, situations and resources.
Progress in implementing the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda  can  provide  a  strong  impetus  to  efforts  to 
implement the 2030 Agenda. That is especially pertinent 
to such service deliverables as implementing a new global 
social compact for the delivery of social protection and 
essential public services for all, increasing international 
cooperation in tax matters, ensuring debt sustainability, 
intensifying  efforts  to  end  hunger  and  malnutrition, 
bridging  critical  infrastructure  gaps,  operationalizing 
the  technology  facilitation  mechanism,  and  using  the 
Economic and Social Council forum for the follow-up 
to the third International Conference on Financing for 
Development.
the 
Guyana  recognizes 
links  between  peace, 
security  and  the  rule  of  law  and  the  successful 
implementation  of  this  Agenda.  Guyana  calls  on  all 
nations to eschew recourse to the threat or use of force 
in  the  resolution  of  controversies.  Guyana  urges  that 
friendship and understanding should underpin relations 
between  States  in  consonance  with  the  principles  of 
international  law  and  in  a  renewed  spirit  of  global 
solidarity and partnership.
At the national level, Guyana is richer for the many 
lessons of our collective development experience. Not 
the least has been our long embrace of the primacy of the 
pursuit of a path of sustainable development, including 
the effective integration of its three dimensions at all 
levels. Guyana will work tirelessly, in accordance with 
our national plans and aspirations, to build a modern, 
peaceful  and  prosperous  nation  in  which  all  citizens 
share equally in the benefits of development.
Guyana’s policy is to ensure inclusive and equitable 
quality education and to promote opportunities for all. 
Education, which is Sustainable Development Goal 4, 
is  the  mother  of  the  other  goals.  It  is  the  gateway  to 
reducing  inequality.  It  is  the  gateway  to  empowering 
all  women  and  girls,  which  is  Goal  5.  It  will  boost 
national efforts in the fight against poverty — Goal 1. 
Its  achievement  is  necessary  to  end  hunger.  Over  the 
next five years, Guyana will have as one of its foremost 
priorities  of  national  development  the  provision  of 
inclusive  and  equitable  quality  education  and  lifelong 
learning opportunities for all.
It  lies  within  our  collective  will  to  address  the 
defining  challenges  of  our  time  successfully.  The 
challenges  include  eliminating  trafficking  in  persons; 
eradicating poverty; promoting more inclusive, just and 
peaceful societies; and combating climate change. We 
must harness a spirit of understanding and cooperation 
to  ensure  the  successful  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  within 
the 
next  15  years.  The  Cooperative  Republic  of  Guyana 
declares  today  its  full  support  for  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  We  commit  to  working  
untiringly  for  its  full  realization.  We  are  determined 
to achieve all the Sustainable Development Goals and 
their targets — they represent the finest aspirations of 
humankind. The world we want for future generations 
is  within  our  grasp.  In  this  great  global  family,  the 
United Nations, no woman, no child, no one should be 
left behind.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic 
of Guyana for his statement.
Mr.  David  Arthur  Granger,  President  of  the 
Republic of Guyana, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Uhuru  Kenyatta, 
President  and  Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Defence 
Forces of the Republic of Kenya.
Mr.  Uhuru  Kenyatta,  President  and  Commander -
-in -Chief of the Defence Forces of the Republic of 
Kenya, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Kenyatta:  It  is  a  great  honour  and 
pleasure to join the General Assembly on this historic 
day  as  we  convene  to  adopt  a  new  development 
Agenda.  Let  me  commend  the  Member  States  and 
every  stakeholder,  all  of  whom  patiently  engaged  in 
the  negotiations,  whose  culmination  is  a  visionary, 
transformative  and  ambitious  blueprint.  Let  me  also 
thank the Assembly for the confidence shown in Kenya 
by bestowing on my country the honour of co-chairing 
the 
this 
outcome. I believe that the adoption of the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (resolution  70/1)  will  galvanize 
global action towards ending poverty in all its forms.
intergovernmental  process 
that 
led 
to 
Fifteen years ago, at the Millennium Summit, we 
adopted the Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2). 
Through that Declaration, we adopted the Millennium 
15-29155
7/25
A/70/PV.5 
25/09/2015
Development  Goals  (MDGs), 
through  which  we 
undertook to exert all efforts to reduce extreme poverty 
by the year 2015. Since then, we have made significant 
progress in poverty reduction. Many of the MDGs have 
been  achieved.  Between  1990  and  2002,  for  example, 
overall  incomes  rose,  and  there  was  a  sharp  decline 
in  the  number  of  people  living  in  extreme  poverty, 
as  well  as  in  child  mortality  rates.  Life  expectancy 
rose  from  age  63  to  nearly  65.  An  additional  8  per 
cent  of  the  developing  world’s  people  received  access 
to  water,  while  an  additional  15  per  cent  acquired 
access to improved sanitation services. Similarly, over 
100 million people have been uplifted from slums.
We know that today more girls than ever before are 
going to school at all levels. More women are joining 
the  ranks  of  formal  employment.  I  also  note  that  the 
spread of HIV/AIDS is being reversed: new infections 
fell  by  40  per  cent  between  the  years  2000  and  2013. 
Important milestones have also been reached in the fight 
against  malaria  and  tuberculosis.  Similarly,  efforts  to 
manage the global environment have been accelerated, 
with significant reductions reported in ozone-depleting 
substances.
However, we must acknowledge that progress has 
been  uneven  across  the  world  and  across  the  Goals. 
There  remain  huge  disparities  between  and  within 
countries.  Rural  poverty  remains  unacceptably  high 
within  countries,  while  urban  poverty  is  extensive 
and  underreported  via  traditional  indicators.  In  some 
parts  of  sub-Saharan  Africa,  child  and  maternal 
mortality  are  rising.  Even  where  progress  has  taken 
place,  consumption  patterns  and  their  impact  on  the 
environment  are  unsustainable.  The  world  continues 
to be under threat from the negative impacts of global 
warming  and  climate  change.  Millions  of  people 
worldwide  still  lack  access  to  quality  education  and 
health care.
In Kenya, we have made tremendous progress over 
the past decade. For instance, since the adoption of free 
universal  primary  education  in  the  year  2003,  gross 
enrolment rates have risen from 88 per cent to 96 per 
cent.  Even  more  significantly,  we  have  now  achieved 
gender  parity  in  the  primary  school  cycle,  while  the 
transition from primary to secondary and tertiary levels 
have greatly improved.
My  Government  has  also 
introduced  several 
measures 
to  promote  gender  mainstreaming.  For 
example,  by  legislation  and  Government  policy,  one 
third of all public appointments and legislative positions 
are  reserved  for  women.  The  Government  has  also 
established the Women Enterprise Fund and the Uwezo 
Fund to advance the cause of women’s entrepreneurship. 
My  country  has  also  reserved  at  least  30  per  cent  of 
all positions in the public sector for women, youth and 
people living with disabilities. We continue to promote 
appropriate  skills  to  increase  employment  for  women 
and youths.
In the health sector, we have eliminated user charges 
for  maternity  services  in  our  public  health  facilities. 
My  Government  is  also  providing  free  antiretroviral 
drugs  and  voluntary  counselling  and  testing  services, 
all  part  of  a  sustained  national  campaign  against 
sexually  transmitted  diseases.  That  mix  of  preventive 
and  curative  measures  has  ensured  important  gains 
in the health of our nation. The rate of immunization 
for children under 1 year old, for instance, has risen to 
85 per cent, while HIV/AIDS infections have fallen to 
6 per cent.
The lessons learned from the implementation of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  show  that  much  can 
be achieved when the world finds focus around shared 
common goals. The new Agenda we have adopted today 
is an ambitious plan for collective action to transform 
the  fate  of  humankind  by  lifting  all  people  out  of 
poverty while remaining in harmony with our planet.
Many  of  the  Goals  in  the  post-2015  development 
Agenda  strongly  resonate  with  Kenya’s  development 
aspirations as articulated in our development blueprint, 
which  we  call  Vision  2030.  We  are  convinced  that, 
under  this  Agenda,  a  world  free  from  poverty  and 
hunger  is  achievable  within  the  next  15  years.  We 
also  believe  that  a  world  in  which  development  is  in 
harmony with nature is also possible. The vision on the 
environment is therefore correctly rooted in the Agenda 
as  a  prerequisite  for  moving  our  societies  towards 
sustainable development.
The goals of this Agenda are extremely ambitious. 
They  therefore  require  an  equally  ambitious  means 
of  implementation.  Without  adequate  resources  from 
diverse  places  and  institutions,  the  Agenda  we  have 
adopted  today  might  never  be  realized.  Of  course, 
we  recognize  that  the  primary  responsibility  for 
development  in  our  countries  shall  first  and  foremost 
lie with us. However, resources from our development 
partners will also be critical. I urge them to substantially 
increase the resources that are available to developing 
countries  as  official  development  assistance. 
In 
addition, we should all address issues that have in the 
8/25 
15-29155
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.5
past  impeded  developing  countries  from  channelling 
adequate resources to the needs of the poor. I believe 
that  addressing  debt  sustainability  and  trade  reforms 
will  go  a  long  away  towards  addressing  these  needs. 
After  all,  trade  is  at  least  as  good  a  means  of  ending 
poverty as aid.
As I conclude my statement, I reiterate once again 
that the success of today’s Agenda in the years ahead 
will  require  new  ideas  and  courage.  The  effective 
mobilization  of  resources  in  the  context  of  a  global 
partnership will be critical in that effort. I am therefore 
happy  to  announce  that,  to  that  end,  Kenya  will  host 
the second high-level meeting of the Global Partnership 
for  Effective  Development  Cooperation  in  November 
2016. I am happy to welcome all Member States to that 
important meeting. I believe it will provide us with an 
important forum to exchange ideas on how to move this 
Agenda forward. Finally, I join the global community 
in adopting this important Agenda. 
The  President: 
the  President  and 
Commander -in -Chief  of  the  Defence  Forces  of  the 
Republic of Kenya for his statement.
thank 
I 
Mr.  Uhuru  Kenyatta,  President  and  Commander-
in Chief  of  the  Defence  Forces  of  the  Republic  of 
Kenya, was escorted from rostrum.
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
the 
address by the President of the Republic of Liberia.
Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Johnson-Sirleaf:  Our  new  global 
development  Agenda  (resolution  70/1)  —  entitled 
“Transforming  our  world: 
the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development” — is the result of the most 
consultative  process  in  history.  Consultations  and 
negotiations spanned many years, starting with the 2010 
Summit  to  adopt  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  and  proceeding  to  the  2012  Rio+20  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development, 
which  crafted  a  vision  of  the  future  we  want.  Our 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  targets  were 
formulated  following  protracted  negotiations  in  2013 
and  2014.  This  year’s  negotiations  culminated  in  the 
consensus document we adopted this morning. 
I  commend  Member  States,  regional  groupings, 
civil  society  organizations,  private-sector  actors  and 
all  stakeholders  who  worked  tirelessly  to  create  this 
new  framework.  Given  the  complex  nature  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  we  offer  deserving 
commendation to the outgoing President of the General 
Assembly  and  to  the  co-facilitators,  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Kenya  and  Ireland,  who  skilfully 
navigated  the  process.  We  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  leadership  in  guiding 
the  process,  and  we  appreciate  the  effective  work  of 
his Special Adviser. In 2013, I was honoured to serve, 
along with Prime Minister David Cameron of the United 
Kingdom and President Susilu Bambang Yudhoyono of 
Indonesia, as one of the three co-Chairs of the Secretary-
General’s  High-Level  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on 
the  Post-2015  Agenda.  We  worked  with  27  panellists 
from  around  the  world  to  set  the  vision  and  policy 
framework for a bold, strategic and universal agenda. 
The membership of the Panel included representatives 
from every segment of society, including Governments, 
academia,  civil  society  organizations  and  the  private 
sector.
Fifteen  years  ago,  the  MDGs  were  launched  with 
a  vision  to  build  a  better  world.  At  the  Millennium 
Summit in September 2000, we set time-bound targets 
to  address  critical  challenges.  The  world  has  made 
significant progress in achieving many of those targets. 
Average  overall  incomes  have  increased,  extreme 
poverty has declined, child mortality rates have fallen, 
life  expectancy  has  risen  and  more  people  in  the 
developing  world  have  access  to  improved  sanitation 
services.
But progress has been far from uniform across the 
world and across the Goals. Huge gaps remain across 
and  within  countries.  Poverty  remains  the  greatest 
challenge,  especially  in  rural  areas.  Urban  poverty 
is  also  extensive  and  underreported  by  traditional 
indicators.  We  are  grateful  that  the  new  development 
Agenda calls our attention to the unfinished business of 
the MDGs while broadening the vision to incorporate 
new  challenges.  That  is  why  every  segment  of  the 
global community contributed to making this Agenda 
a reality.
Co-Chair Museveni took the Chair.
In  Africa  in  2013,  the  African  Union  established 
a  high-level  committee  on  the  post-2015  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  which  I  was  honoured  to  chair. 
The  committee  launched  a  consultative  process  that 
culminated  in  the  adoption  of  a  common  African 
position  that  reflected  the  priorities  of  our  continent. 
I  am  very  pleased  to  acknowledge  today  that  our 
priorities are substantially integrated into both the post-
15-29155
9/25
A/70/PV.5 
25/09/2015
2015 Development Agenda and the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda. Together those documents demand a universal 
commitment to the shared vision of eradicating poverty 
and  hunger,  safeguarding  our  planet  and  opening  the 
door to prosperity for the benefit of people everywhere. 
Peaceful  societies  and  revitalized  global  partnerships 
are essential requirements for the achievement of those 
aspirations.
We must pursue single-mindedly the achievement 
of the Goals enshrined in this Agenda. It can be done. 
Our  world  has  never  been  richer,  more  integrated  or 
better educated than now. Therefore, with the resources 
at  our  disposal  and  the  creative  power  of  all,  we  can 
lift  those  at  the  margins  of  progress  —  women  and 
youth — and achieve success. Dignity for all, peaceful 
societies  all  around  the  globe  and  providing  every 
human being with the means to live to his or her full 
potential are well within our means. We cannot afford 
to fail. And we must truly leave no one behind.
The  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  provides  the 
toolkit  for  countries,  especially  poor  and  post-
conflict  countries,  to  galvanize  the  resources  needed 
to  implement  the  new  Agenda.  It  challenges  all  of 
us  to  take  concrete  measures  that  will  transform  our 
commitments into practical solutions that improve the 
lives of our people. Based on that common framework, 
with sustainability at its core, we will move forward in 
crafting  national  development  policies  and  strategies, 
but  with  the  recognition  that,  while  the  goals  and 
targets are universal in nature, every country will have 
to  develop  its  own  priorities  towards  achieving  the 
global ambition of a new world of peace and prosperity 
in a safe planet.
Given  its  scope  and  level  of  ambition,  the  post-
2015 development Agenda will require more effective, 
strengthened  and  improved  modes  of  development 
cooperation to support its implementation. We call for 
a  renewed  and  revitalized  global  partnership  among 
nations,  underpinned  by  North-South,  South-South 
and  triangular  cooperation,  with  specific  attention  on 
fair  trade,  taxation  and  technology,  while  combating 
illicit  financial  flows  and  terrorism.  At  the  core 
of  our  actions,  we  must  affirm  our  commitment  to 
transparency, accountability and mutual respect. Those 
are the fundamentals of genuine partnerships.
The  successful 
implementation  of 
the  2030 
Development  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
will depend largely upon the concrete measures taken 
at the subnational, national, regional and global levels. 
We  must  set  in  motion  national  processes  that  will 
guide our efforts to domesticate and integrate the new 
Agenda  into  local  content  that  will  engender  national 
ownership  in  the  implementation  process.  A  strong 
follow-up and review mechanism will enhance effective 
implementation and ensure that citizens have the means 
to  assess  progress.  We  must  also  embark  upon  a  data 
revolution  geared  towards  developing  capacities  for 
development planning, monitoring and evaluation.
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
Today  we  made  history  by  adopting  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  to  replace  the 
Millennium Development Goals. In so doing, we have 
assumed the challenge and responsibility to deliver to 
future  generations,  in  the  next  15  years,  a  world  free 
of  poverty  and  hunger  and  a  more  secure  planet  for 
everyone. This must be our legacy.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic 
of Liberia for her statement.
Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Anote  Tong, 
President,  Head  of  Government  and  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kiribati.
Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President,  Head  of  Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
Kiribati, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Tong:  It  is  an  honour  and  a  privilege 
for  me  to  address  this  historic  Summit  on  behalf  of 
the  Government  and  the  people  of  Kiribati.  Let  me 
greet  the  Assembly  formally:  “Na  bane  ni  mauri”. 
Today  indeed  marks  a  truly  momentous  occasion  as 
we,  representatives  of  our  peoples  from  all  corners 
of  the  globe,  gather  to  adopt  an  ambitious  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  for  our 
respective peoples for the next 15 years.
At  the  outset,  I  wish  to  commend  the  sterling 
leadership and commitment of Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon  in  steering  our  family  of  nations  forward 
and  in  pushing  our  ambition  to  achieve  sustainable 
development for all. I also wish to take this opportunity 
to congratulate the co-Chairs on their appointment to 
chair  this  historic  Summit.  And  I  commend  the  new 
President of the General Assembly on his assumption 
of  the  presidency  of  the  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
10/25 
15-29155
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.5
session. I also would like to commend his predecessor, 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
ninth  session,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  for 
his  leadership  in  guiding  the  massive  task  of  shaping 
the Agenda before us today. I would like to especially 
commend the co-facilitators, Ambassador Kamau and 
Ambassador Donoghue, for their outstanding leadership 
in  chairing  the  lengthy  work  of  the  Open  Working 
Group  on  intergovernmental  negotiations,  indeed  a 
massive, inclusive and consultative process that lasted 
more than two years. Allow me to congratulate them on 
a job well done.
This  is  truly  a  major  multilateral  achievement  as 
we celebrate the seventieth year of the United Nations. 
As  we  celebrate,  we  should  also  reflect  and  ensure 
that  this  premier  global  body  remains  responsive  to 
the needs of the most fragile and vulnerable of people 
in  its  membership.  That  is  the  real  litmus  test  for  the 
Organization’s  relevance  and  effectiveness.  The  new 
Agenda  we  have  adopted  at  this  Summit  presents  an 
agenda of hope for humankind, one underpinned by the 
overall goal of eliminating poverty and the key theme 
of leaving no one behind — an agenda that we hope can 
ensure that no one is left behind.
Some  critics  were  already  delivering  a  verdict 
even  before  the  adoption  of  this  new  Agenda,  saying 
that there were just too many goals and targets. There 
will always be critics, and who knows that better than 
we do as politicians. But the truth of the matter is that 
these  Goals  reflect  the  realities  and  the  multitude  of 
challenges  facing  humankind  across  the  globe  today. 
If  we  were  to  ask  the  question,  “What  are  the  root 
causes of the violent conflicts around the globe that are 
causing the senseless loss of tens of thousands of lives, 
the  massive  movement  of  refugees  now  experienced 
in  Europe,  the  emergence  of  fundamentalist  terrorist 
groups around the world, and the change in our climate 
system?”, many of the answers to those questions could 
be found in the lack of attention to the Goals in front 
of  us  in  this  new  Agenda.  These  Goals  are  not  new. 
Most, if not all, are in our national development plans 
and  strategies.  What  is  new  is  the  global  call  for  the 
international  community  and  national  Governments 
to  do  things  differently  to  effect  the  transformational 
changes  necessary  to  achieve  what  we  politicians 
promise our people every time before elections. That is 
crucial in an increasingly interdependent world where 
the decisions made and actions done in one country will 
have rippling effects elsewhere in other countries. That 
is  why  we  come  to  the  Assembly  every  year  to  share 
our  national  agendas  so  that  we  can  shape  the  global 
agenda  in  a  positive  way  as  an  agenda  that  would  be 
meaningful to all.
Let me therefore focus on the one key global goal 
for us in this Agenda: Goal 13, the need to take urgent 
action to combat the effects of climate change, which is 
particularly important for the most vulnerable countries 
such as mine, which are now already experiencing the 
impact of climate change. I do so because it poses an 
existential challenge for my people, and this goal is one 
that, if not given urgent attention now, has the potential 
to negate all efforts towards sustainable development, 
but  it  is  also  one  that  will  challenge  the  survival  of 
generations to come.
Over  the  years,  I  have  come  here  to  this  forum 
to  explain  the  vulnerability  of  our  people.  I  do  not 
want  to  repeat  what  I  have  said  year  after  year.  This 
is  the  last  time  I  want  to  do  it.  But  the  point  I  want 
to  share  is  that  things  are  happening.  Storm  patterns 
are  changing;  weather  patterns  are  changing.  We  are 
already  experiencing  extreme  storm  events  that  we 
never experienced in the past.
The real test of our commitment to the new Agenda 
will be the United Nations Climate Change Conference. 
The  new  sustainable  development  agenda  will  mean 
nothing if the Paris summit in December does not come 
up,  not  with  an  ambitious,  but  with  what  I  believe  to 
be  a  meaningful,  legally  binding  agreement  that  can 
address the urgent challenge for those of us on the front 
lines  of  the  climate  change  challenge.  We  must  step 
up our national and collective efforts to meaningfully 
reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. We must urge 
major greenhouse gas emitters to do their part.
We must also call with urgency on our development 
partners and on philanthropy from the private sector to 
assist those on the front line of the climate calamity to 
deal with the impacts of climate change and sea-level 
rise now being experienced in our countries to assist in 
our efforts to prepare our people for a very uncertain 
future. Let us call on those with the ability to assist and 
who have a contribution to make to join in the global 
dialogue — but, more important, in the call for urgent 
action to address this major challenge.
Business  as  usual  can  no  longer  be  considered  to 
be a path forward. Let us not limit ourselves to working 
within  the  shackles  and  boundaries  of  our  comfort 
zones.  The  challenge  of  climate  change  continues  to 
demand that we think outside the bounds of conventional 
15-29155
11/25
A/70/PV.5 
25/09/2015
thinking,  because  these  are  extraordinary  challenges 
that  call 
for  extraordinary  and  unconventional 
solutions.  We  need  to  take  bold  steps,  even  if  we  are 
not  sure  they  are  the  right  ones.  If  necessary,  we  can 
improvise on the way. But whatever we do, we cannot 
afford to be paralysed into inaction simply because of 
the apparent impossibility of the challenge confronting 
us. Time is running out, and the current alternatives are 
not acceptable.
It  is  most  gratifying  to  note  that  an  emerging 
glimmer of hope exists — that a shift in the wind in the 
dialogue on climate change has occurred. This morning 
we heard His Holiness Pope Francis speak on climate 
change. We welcome the messages and expressions of 
commitment from a growing number of quarters, from 
more capitals around the globe and from civil society, 
which  recognize  that  climate  change  poses  a  major 
challenge  and  requires  urgent  action.  We  from  the 
front-line  nations  welcome  that  most  gratifying  shift 
as  a  very  positive  development  in  the  right  direction. 
At  last,  the  international  community  has  heard  our 
messages  and  our  shared  stories  on  the  plight  of  our 
peoples.
But hearing our story and recognizing that climate 
change is a major challenge is not enough. We need to 
act on the problem with urgency. We may be on the front 
line now, but so will the millions of others in the times 
ahead. As we endorse our new Sustainable Development 
Agenda and celebrate the seventieth anniversary of the 
United Nations family, we must believe that no Member 
nation should have to plan on its own for a time when 
its people will no longer have a country and a place that 
they can call home. Merely saying and acknowledging 
that climate change is a challenge simply will not do. 
What is important is our response to the problem as a 
global community of moral human beings. The real test 
of the effectiveness and relevance of the new Agenda 
for Sustainable Development and of the United Nations 
family as we celebrate its seventieth anniversary is in 
ensuring that no one is left behind. Yet my people and 
those on the front line of climate change face the real 
possibility of being left behind.
I therefore call on this Summit and on the General 
Assembly at its seventieth session to lend their support 
to  the  voice  of  the  most  vulnerable.  We  call  on  the 
international community to establish an ambitious and 
meaningful, legally binding agreement that can begin 
to heal our one shared home and planet. I also call on 
this Summit to join our voice so as to ensure that the 
agreement  in  Paris  will  include  a  special  mechanism 
to  fast-track  urgent  action  for  those  countries  on  the 
front line of climate change that need such action now. 
It is no longer about who is to blame or what caused the 
problem, it is about urgently working together, within 
our  capabilities,  as  good  global  citizens,  to  urgently 
address  the  major  challenge  to  all  peoples  and  to  our 
one and only home: our planet Earth.
Let  me  conclude  by  sharing  with  the  Assembly 
our traditional Kiribati blessings of “Te mauri, te raoi 
ao te tabomoa”, which means “May health, peace and 
prosperity be with us all”.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
Kiribati for his statement.
Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President,  Head  of  Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
Kiribati, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Panama.
Mr. Juan Carlos Varela Rodríguez, President of the 
Republic of Panama, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Varela  Rodríguez  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
On  behalf  of  the  people  and  the  Government  of  the 
Republic of Panama, I have come to affirm our strong 
commitment  to  the  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  which  we  have  adopted  at  this  Summit 
(resolution 70/1). It is dedicated to uniting our efforts 
and  aligning  our  national  priorities  with  global  ones 
in  order  to  ensure  domestic  tranquillity,  welfare  and 
prosperity for present and future generations.
Above and beyond any differences that may arise 
between  countries,  Governments  must  seek  the  same 
criteria  and  work  together  to  tackle  the  problems 
facing  us,  both  within  and  beyond  our  borders.  That 
was the spirit of the seventh Summit of the Americas, 
held  in  April  this  year  in  Panama,  where  the  slogan 
was “Prosperity with equity”. The 35 countries of the 
continent sent a clear message that we stand ready to 
work  together  for  a  better  region  and  a  better  world. 
A  strong  global  alliance  among  countries,  bringing 
together  Governments,  civil  society  and  citizens, 
is  the  only  way  to  transform  the  lives  of  millions  of 
people  who  still  face  social  exclusion.  We  believe  in 
that vision, and in Panama we have set the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  as  the  official  guidelines 
12/25 
15-29155
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.5
for our Government, while ensuring the resources for 
its effective implementation.
resources to achieve our objectives but will also serve 
the world and global trade.
Our  Government  plan  is  in  line  with  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  It  is  backed 
up  by  a  strategic  plan  for  public  investment  that  will 
enable  us  to  move  steadily  towards  achieving  the  17 
Goals of the new Agenda. In order to eradicate poverty, 
we  have  strengthened  and  expanded  the  coverage  of 
the programmes of our social protection system, which 
currently serves 20 per cent of the population. Access 
to safe drinking water and basic sanitation is a priority. 
That  is  why  our  Administration  has  allocated  about 
30 per cent of total public investment for 2015-2019 to 
achieving that objective.
In  drawing  up  the  Goals  we  have  been  thinking 
of  future  generations.  For  them,  education  is  the  key. 
In our country we are allocating the resources needed 
for  full  secondary-school  coverage.  That  will  benefit 
young people, in particular young people at social risk 
and  school  dropouts,  so  that  they  can  return  to  the 
educational system and the job market. Our economy is 
still growing at approximately 6 per cent per year, and 
we  are  now  generating  more  better-paying  jobs.  And 
we are very close to becoming the first country in the 
region to be declared free of child labour.
The  efficient  use  of  State  resources  will  be  key 
to  meeting  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  That 
is  why  in  our  country  we  have  just  held  a  national 
dialogue  for  the  effective  coordination  of  the  public 
health  system,  which  will  make  it  more  effective  and 
will  improve  health  benefits.  New  technologies  and 
databases  must  be  used  constructively.  They  can  be 
used  to  measure  progress  in  achieving  the  Goals.  In 
Panama  we  decided  to  use  them  in  a  national  census 
on preventive health to determine the state of health of 
our people.
We  also  want  to  replace  the  shantytowns  in  our 
country. We want to make sure that all our citizens have 
decent housing. That is a goal that we hope to achieve 
by  2020,  jointly  with  the  private  sector,  via  a  project 
called “Roofs of Hope”.
to  provide 
We  also  need 
the  environmental 
departments  of  our  countries  enough  human  and 
economic  resources  for  them  to  protect  the  planet.  In 
Panama our goal is to restore 50 per cent of the deforested 
area  over  the  next  20  years,  as  well  as  to  protect  our 
oceans. Next year, the Panama Canal expansion project 
will  be  completed,  which  will  not  only  give  us  more 
The Sustainable Develoment Goals offer us a 2030 
Development Agenda from the perspective of solidarity 
among human beings. It is now up to us to respond to 
the  legitimate  hope  of  a  world  with  opportunities  for 
all and with sustainable development. Panama will do 
its  part,  and  our  country  will  participate  actively  in 
that  noble  undertaking,  which  is  the  main  challenge 
facing humankind. It is only by meeting the challenge 
of sustainable development that we will achieve peace.
I believe that all the members of the Government, 
as temporary administrators of the goods and resources 
of  our  peoples,  have  a  great  responsibility  to  ensure 
that  politics  is  understood  as  serving  others,  and  that 
public funds are used honestly, transparently and fairly 
to improve the quality of life of our citizens.
In conclusion, I want to confirm my commitment 
to move my country forward over the five years of my 
term so that we can achieve the 17 Goals. I appeal to 
Heads of State and all who share this responsibility to 
administer public funds honestly and transparently so 
that 15 years from now we can look back and feel that 
together  we  did  our  best  to  ensure  that  our  countries 
attain the Sustainable Development Goals.
The Acting President: I thank the President of the 
Republic of Panama for his statement.
Mr.  Juan  Carlos  Varela  Rodríguez,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Panama,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Federal Republic 
of Nigeria.
Mr. Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Buhari:  The  Declaration  that  we  have 
adopted  today  (see  resolution  70/1)  testifies  to  the 
urgency  of  and  the  need  for  action  by  all  of  us.  It  is 
not  for  want  of  commitment  that  previous  initiatives 
failed  or  could  not  be  fully  realized.  What  seemed 
to  be  lacking  in  the  past  were  political  will  and  the 
requisite global partnerships to pursue and implement 
the programmes to which we committed ourselves. 
Global consensus is needed. We agreed to deliver 
as one and to leave no one behind. That promise was 
kept. We have agreed to create viable partnerships and 
15-29155
13/25
A/70/PV.5 
25/09/2015
to adopt the means of implementation for the Goals and 
targets of a global Sustainable Development agenda in 
all  its  three  dimensions:  the  economic,  the  social  and 
the environmental. 
The  post-2015  development  agenda  and 
the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), together with 
the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, which we adopted in 
July 2015, offer us a unique opportunity to address the 
unfinished  business  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs). They also provide the basis for a new set 
of global development priorities to usher in a peaceful 
and prosperous world.
international 
Since  2000  we  have  witnessed  a  number  of 
areas  in  which  progress  has  been  made  in  meeting 
our  commitments.  Respect  for  human  rights  and 
accountability  for  gross  violations  are  now  at  the 
forefront  of  most  major 
initiatives. 
National efforts have been exerted to meet the MDGs 
and  rescue  millions  of  people  from  the  clutches  of 
extreme  poverty  and  want.  Illnesses  such  as  polio, 
tuberculosis  and  malaria  are  being  systematically 
attacked and eliminated from our countries. Maternal 
and  child  mortality,  as  well  as  mother-to-child 
transmission of diseases such as HIV/AIDS, are high on 
our national agendas. Through a concerted effort by the 
world community, Ebola in West Africa was contained, 
then overcome. 
The  prospect  of  wars  and  conflicts  between  and 
among States has for the first time in human memory 
been  considerably  reduced.  Threats  to  international 
peace and security are now caused more by non-State 
actors whose terrorist groups pose a more deadly threat 
by  drawing  national  armed  forces  into  neighbouring 
conflicts.  The  war  against  terror  is  now  the  most 
significant effort that we are all called upon to prosecute, 
in unison and with renewed determination and vigour. 
We must not lose sight of or diminish the fact that 
poverty poses a serious threat to global development. If 
we are truly committed to leave no one behind, we must 
then  translate  rhetoric  into  action  and  fight  poverty 
on  a  global  scale.  Illiteracy,  hunger  and  diseases  are 
associated with evils that go hand in hand with poverty. 
We must exert all efforts to eliminate those ills from our 
midst by 2030, as the Declaration loudly proclaims. The 
bottom billion that have neither a safety net nor social 
protection need to be rescued from their perpetual state 
of hopelessness, fear and indignity. 
that  bring 
Now that it has fallen on our shoulders to discharge 
that responsibility, we should do so with the enthusiasm 
and commitment worthy of the cause. We must create 
viable  partnerships 
together  national, 
regional  and  global  actors  with  shared  objectives  to 
carry them forward. We must also create an enabling 
environment  for  executing  this  global  Agenda  by 
developing  the  relevant  framework  for  working  with 
different types of partners and constituencies, one that 
recognizes the contributions of civil society, religious 
and cultural bodies, the private sector, academia and, 
most important, Government. 
Just as the success of the MDGs was underpinned 
by  national  ownership,  the  post-2015  and  the  SDG 
frameworks must also be guided by national priorities 
and  ownership.  Domestic 
resource  mobilization, 
supplemented  by  improved  terms  of  trade  between 
industrial and developing economies, should drive the 
implementation process in both streams. The facilitation 
of remittances by migrant and overseas workers, as well 
as efficient tax collection, are needed as complementary 
sources of financing for development.
to 
the  pursuit  of 
Mindful  of  that,  I  wish  to  reiterate  Nigeria’s 
transparent  and 
commitment 
accountable fiscal and economic management. We are 
taking measures to improve and streamline the internal 
generation  of  revenue  and  to  plug  all  loopholes  that 
have  led  to  illicit  capital  flight  from  Nigeria.  We  are 
also  putting  in  place  mechanisms  to  prevent  oil  theft 
and  other  criminal  practices  that  are  detrimental  to 
our economy. We are taking concrete steps to address 
environmental challenges, especially in cleaning up the 
greatest damage to ecosystems caused by oil spillage, 
land  erosion,  desertification  and  floods.  The  threat 
posed  by  climate  change  is  real  and  present  in  our 
country.
It  is  my  hope  that  as  we  embark  on  this  renewed 
journey  we  will  match  our  words  with  deeds,  so  that 
when the General Assembly meets in 2030, the people 
of all races and creeds will say that we have kept faith 
with each other.
The Acting President: I thank the President of the 
Federal Republic of Nigeria for his statement.
Mr. Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria, was escorted from the rostrum.
14/25 
15-29155
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.5
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Palau.
Mr.  Tommy  Esang  Remengesau,  Jr.,  President  of 
the Republic of Palau, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Remengesau:  It  is  my  great  honour  to 
join everyone here today to congratulate the Secretary-
General and, for that matter, the global community on 
the adoption of the post-2015 Agenda. It is a privilege to 
thank the General Assembly for that signal achievement. 
It  is  fitting  that  we  take  this  uniquely  important 
moment to recognize the hard work and dedication of 
literally thousands of people from all nations that has 
allowed us to gather here today. By virtue of that work 
by so many, we now have a strong set of imperatives for 
the  transformational  change  that  our  peoples  and  our 
countries need in order to safeguard our planet for the 
future of our children.
It is also with deep gratitude and humbleness that 
I  recognize  and  acknowledge  the  leadership  of  His 
Holiness Pope Francis for his inspirational remarks (see 
A/70/PV.4) and for his extraordinary encyclical Laudato 
Si’.  That  profoundly  important  document  laments 
the  careless  use  of  our  planet’s  resources  leading  to 
environmental  degradation  and  global  warming.  That 
encyclical on climate change, which calls for swift and 
unified  global  action,  is  an  inspiration  to  us  all  and 
is  already  beginning  to  change  hearts  and  minds  and 
to  focus  the  world’s  attention  on  the  most  vulnerable 
among us and on our mother Earth. 
The  encyclical  clearly  and  eloquently  states  a 
fundamental  truth:  what  we  do,  or  do  not  do,  about 
climate change today will affect the lives of countless 
people  for  many  generations  to  come.  His  Holiness 
speaks passionately of the impacts of climate change on 
the suffering of the poor. That also is fundamental. The 
people who contribute least to this crisis are suffering 
the most from it. That realization must be part of the 
solution  that  we  will  develop  in  Paris  at  the  end  of 
the  year.  There  is  still  time  to  tackle  climate  change, 
the greatest challenge of our times. Human suffering, 
and  the  suffering  of  all  creation,  will  deepen  with 
each moment of delay. At the same time, all countries 
and all peoples have a role to play in building a more 
sustainable future.
The eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
helped  drive  global  progress  in  developing  countries. 
Most assuredly, they helped to reduce extreme poverty, 
improve  health,  enhance  environmental  sustainability 
and address gender equality. Today we have before us 
the  new  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs).  The 
new SDGs are critically important as the next great step 
forward beyond the MDGs. These SDGs must raise the 
bar  of  our  global  commitment  to  finally  address  the 
root causes of poverty and environmental degradation.
As  we  all  know,  we  have  enormous  challenges 
ahead. Over 1 billion people on this fragile planet still 
live on less than $1.25 a day. Almost 1 billion people do 
not  have  enough  to  feed  themselves  or  their  families. 
Climate change is already wreaking havoc in my home, 
the Pacific. Our nations are at present feeling the effects 
from  rising  seas,  storm  surges,  droughts,  floods  and 
ocean acidification, which together threaten our water 
and food supplies, our marine biodiversity and our very 
livelihoods.
Those  enormous  challenges  are  not  limited  to 
my  region.  As  our  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  recognizes,  there  is  no 
region on Earth, no country and no people who are not 
suffering — and who will not continue to suffer — until 
we  take  effective  and  long-lasting  global  action.  Like 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals are but a blueprint for change and 
regeneration.  The  hard  work  lies  ahead  for  the  global 
community, rich and poor nations alike, to make those 
Goals real across the broad expanses of our planet and 
for all of our citizens.
In Palau, we are working hard to do our part and 
to take those next steps that will define our future. We 
have  committed  to  provide  20  per  cent  of  our  energy 
through renewable resources by 2020, and are already 
three quarters of the way there. We have also committed 
to  become  carbon-neutral  by  2050.  In  that  context, 
we  have  finalized  a  comprehensive  climate  change 
policy  and  will  soon  submit  our  intended,  nationally 
determined contribution.
We  are  working  hard  to  protect  our  ocean —  the 
foundation  of  our  culture  and  the  backbone  of  our 
livelihoods. We have created a comprehensive network 
of  near-shore  marine  protected  areas  and  are  in  the 
process  of  establishing  the  Palau  national  marine 
sanctuary, which will close 80 per cent of our exclusive 
economic  zone  —  an  area  the  size  of  France  —  to 
commercial fishing.
Representing  a  small  island  developing  nation,  I 
must particularly congratulate and thank the Assembly 
15-29155
15/25
A/70/PV.5 
25/09/2015
for  the  Sustainable  Development  Goal  on  the  oceans. 
That  SDG  is  enormously  important  to  all  of  us.  It 
will  pave  the  way  towards  a  healthier  global  marine 
environment  through  a  well-connected  system  of 
marine protected areas; the restoration of fish stocks and 
the elimination of illegal, unregulated and unreported 
fishing will be addressed.
While  small  nations  like  mine  are  taking  many 
actions on our own to stem the tide of environmental 
collapse,  it  is  only  through  a  true  global  partnership 
for  sustainable  development,  with  the  participation  of 
all countries, all stakeholders and all peoples, that we 
can implement our new list of Sustainable Development 
Goals with the speed and scale necessary to respond to 
our  urgent  situation.  To  move  forward,  we  will  need 
funding  and  technical  support  to  implement,  monitor 
and  strengthen  our  solutions.  And  we  will  need  that 
support sooner rather than later.
Global partnership is our only hope. Only through 
real partnerships at every level can we implement the 
SDGs in our generation to indeed transform the world. 
Only through partnerships can we hope to realize the 
promise of the future we want — a future we need for 
our children and all the generations to come.
God bless our mother Earth.
The Acting President: I thank the President of the 
Republic of Palau for his statement.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the 
Constitutional  President  of  the  Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia.
President  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional 
President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
President  Morales  Ayma  (spoke  in  Spanish): I 
greet all the heads of all delegations, representing their 
countries.  In  the  name  of  the  Bolivian  people,  I  note 
and pay tribute to the decision of the General Assembly 
to discuss and adopt the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1). 
that I would like to quickly explain that the policies of 
the capitalist system do not solve the current problems 
of life and of humankind. 
Wealth is concentrated not in just a few hands but in 
just a few States. The most developed countries are where 
the greatest wealth of the humankind is concentrated, 
but at the same time capitalism allows that a few citizens 
can gather the wealth of various countries and millions 
and  millions  of  human  beings.  Capitalism  uses  the 
environment for its own purposes by plundering natural 
resources  and  through  environmental  degradation. 
Capitalism uses the economy in the service of politics. 
The capitalist economy operates through a dictatorship 
of the financial system that favours the banks and robs 
the  peoples.  Capitalism  places  peoples  in  extreme 
poverty. 
War is the biggest business of capitalism. It cannot 
survive  without  producing  violence,  invading  peoples 
and  plundering  strategic  resources.  The  capitalist 
system underwrites the industry of death — weapons 
production,  military  expenditure,  military  bases  and 
the extraterritorial commerce in logistical and security 
systems. Today there are more wars in the world than 
in  the  past,  and  the  destructive  capacity  of  weapons 
and  technology  is  unparalleled  in  the  history  of 
humankind. Furthermore, more people than ever have 
been displaced by war, and military expenditures have 
risen to astronomical levels. Never before have we seen 
so  much  spent  on  destroying  people  in  such  a  short 
time.  For  example,  the  NATO  annual  budget  exceeds 
$1  trillion.  As  a  result  of  imperialist  wars,  today 
oceans have been converted into cemeteries of refugees 
perishing  at  sea.  Countries  have  become  trenches  of 
war. 
If war fuels the economy of a capitalist system, it 
feeds off a sham. Today wars are being manufactured 
and  leaders  demonized.  War  criminalizes  progressive 
States  having  an  anti-capitalist  orientation.  Worse, 
today this imperiousness creates real armies of religious 
fanatics that cannot be controlled, such as the army of 
the Islamic State. 
First,  we  have  to  assess  what  was  done  with  the 
Millennium Development Goals and ask ourselves why 
we  were  unable  to  achieve  them.  I  would  like  to  say 
that we have to debate thoroughly what are the causes 
of  poverty,  what  are  the  causes  of  inequality  in  the 
world, why is it that in some countries, some regions, 
poverty — extreme poverty — continues to grow. For 
To  survive,  the  capitalist  system  transfers  its 
crises  to  peoples,  sometimes  by  lowering  the  prices 
of oil and other raw materials, sometimes by invading 
States  through  supposedly  just  wars,  and  at  other 
times  by  imposing  economic  and  financial  models  to 
plunder their natural resources through global financial 
institutions. In the capitalist model, the major political 
16/25 
15-29155
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.5
and economic decisions are concentrated in the hands 
of  bankers,  businessmen  and 
industrialists,  and 
democracy concludes with the vote.
The President returned to the Chair.
To change the social situation in Bolivia, we worked 
politically to free ourselves from imperialist domination 
and economically to free ourselves from the neoliberal 
model.  In  doing  so,  we  promoted  a  comprehensive 
policy of living well, under the guidance and wisdom 
of our social movements, because the Bolivian people 
are organized in social movements. 
It is very important for us to regain ownership of 
our natural resources. We have nationalized our natural 
resources, and there is one important thing to keep in 
mind:  before  nationalization  and  modification  of  the 
hydrocarbons law, the oil revenue was just $300 million 
a year. Last year we reached $5.6 billion in oil revenues. 
Those  present  here  can  therefore  imagine  under  a 
neoliberal model how much money they stole from us, 
how  much  money  was  taken  by  the  international  oil 
companies who were masters of our natural resource.
Thanks to the Bolivian people, Bolivia is building 
a  truly  plurinational  State,  where  all  people  have  the 
same rights and duties. Earlier, the indigenous people 
were  completely  excluded.  Now  we  have  a  classless 
State. We had Governments that were imposed on us; 
now it is the people who are in power in Bolivia. 
As for participation in the national economy, earlier 
we  were  falsely  led  to  believe  that  the  private  sector 
would  solve  Bolivia’s  economic  problems  and  that 
the distribution of wealth would lead to equality with 
dignity,  deepening  democracy.  In  Bolivia  economic 
policies  are  debated  and  approved  with  the  social 
movements. For the first time, we are beginning to give 
added value to our natural resources.
We have a patriotic agenda. In 2025, Bolivia will 
celebrate  the  bicentennial  of  its  founding,  with  an 
agenda to deliver ourselves fully from domination. But 
I also want to say how important it is to democratize 
and redistribute the national economy. Before, our small 
economy was being privatized and exported. Today, the 
economy remains in Bolivia and is being socialized and 
democratized, through transfers and actions or through 
goods and revenues, for both grandparents and children.
Fortunately, thanks to those policies, in just a short 
period of time we have reduced extreme poverty from 
about  40  per  cent  to  17  per  cent,  and  I  would  like  to 
say that Bolivia has achieved most of the Millennium 
Development  Goals.  If  our  economic  resources  had 
remained  in  the  private  sector,  that  would  have  never 
been possible.
Lastly, I would like to say that, if we wish to end 
poverty  by  2030  and  achieve  development  for  our 
people,,  we  have  to  look  at  how  we  can  put  an  end 
to  the  values  of  the  capitalist  system  —  selfishness, 
individualism  and  consumerism.  All  of  us  want  to 
eradicate poverty. In order to do so, as elected officials 
in our countries, we have the obligation to put an end 
to  the  capitalist  system.  Thus  we  will  be  able  to  end 
poverty.
The  President:  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia for his statement.
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  President  of 
the 
Plurinational  State  of  Boliva,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  of  the  Socialist  Republic  of 
Viet Nam.
Mr.  Truong  Tan  Sang,  President  of  the  Socialist 
Republic of Viet Nam, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Truong Tan Sang (spoke in Vietnamese; 
English  interpretation  provided  by  delegation):  On 
behalf of the State and the people of Viet Nam, I extend 
my warmest greetings to the co-Chairs, the Secretary-
General and fellow leaders at this Summit.
At  the  dawn  of  the  millennium,  15  years  ago,  we 
adopted  a  political  declaration,  the  United  Nations 
Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2), and endorsed 
the actionable Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), 
expressing  a  strong  commitment  to  our  people’s 
development. Today the economy has witnessed varied 
progress,  yet  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs  has 
produced  encouraging  results  throughout  the  world, 
helping to change the lives of hundreds of millions of 
people. Nevertheless, more than 1 billion people still live 
in extreme poverty, and progress on several MDGs fall 
short  of  our  expectations.  Challenges  such  as  hunger, 
poverty,  epidemics,  social  injustice,  the  depletion  of 
natural resources, environmental degradation, climate 
change, conflicts, crises, escalating violence, instability 
and  tension  in  many  corners  of  the  world  are  serious 
threats to peace, security and sustainable development.
In  that  context,  we  gather  here  today  in  order  to 
express our strongest commitment to, and support for, 
15-29155
17/25
A/70/PV.5 
25/09/2015
a  truly  transformational  global  development  agenda. 
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  with 
its  17  Goals  and  169  targets,  presents  a  new  strategic 
fusion that reflects the aspirations of humankind to live 
in a world of peace, safety, equality and justice, a world 
where  development  is  green,  clean  and  sustainable. 
The Agenda creates a framework and sets the direction 
for  all  nations  to  collectively  respond  to  common 
challenges in the three pillars: the economic, the social 
and the environmental.
Viet Nam wholeheartedly supports the 2030 Agenda, 
and we pledge to do our level best to ensure its successful 
implementation.  We  will  mobilize  all  the  necessary 
resources.  We  will  engage  all  ministries,  sectors, 
localities and organizations in our communities. Three 
points require our particular attention.
First,  peace  and  development  are  intertwined. 
We  could  never  expect  the  MDGs  to  be  achieved  in 
circumstances of war, conflict and instability. Only by 
ensuring peace and stability can we pool the required 
resources and foster the partnership necessary for the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs).  Therefore,  maintaining  peace  and  security, 
on  the  basis  of  respect  for  international  law,  is  a 
precondition  for  the  successful  implementation  of  the 
SDGs. It is incumbent upon all of us to find peaceful 
and  satisfactory  solutions  to  conflicts  and  disputes, 
exercise restraint, refrain from the use or threat of force 
and strengthen cooperation among all countries on the 
basis of equality and mutual benefit.
Secondly,  having  achieved  most  MDGs  ahead 
of  schedule,  Viet  Nam  believes  that  the  successful 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  requires  strong 
political  will  and  the  full  and  effective  mobilization 
of  domestic  resources.  It  is  necessary  to  envision 
sustainable development as a long-term, people-centred 
final  goal  and  to  mainstream  the  SDGs  into  all 
national programmes and strategies, while taking into 
account  the  specific  conditions  and  circumstances  of 
each  country.  As  part  of  its  own  national  sustainable 
development  strategy 
the  period  2011-2020, 
Viet  Nam  is  committed  to  accelerating  economic 
restructuring  and  transforming  the  growth  model, 
in  order  to  enhance  growth  and  economic  efficiency, 
ensure  social  equality,  preserve  natural  resources, 
protect the environment and respond to climate change.
Thirdly,  it  is  imperative  to  strengthen  the  global 
partnership  for  sustainable  development.  The  United 
Nations  can  and  should  play  the  critical  coordinating 
for 
role,  along  with  other  international  organizations. 
Developed  countries  are  called  upon  to  take  the  lead 
in  supporting  developing  countries  in  implementing 
the  SDGs,  particularly 
through  capacity-building, 
technology  transfer,  trade  facilitation  and  access  to 
financial resources.
On  behalf  of  the  Vietnamese  people,  I  would 
like  to  thank  all  partners,  countries  and  international 
organizations for supporting Viet Nam in its social and 
economic development and MDG implementation over 
the past years. We look forward to further cooperation 
and  assistance  during  the  achievement  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Viet Nam is working with other States members of 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to 
build an ASEAN community by the end of 2015, and a 
South-East Asian nation of peace, stability, cooperation 
and  prosperity.  In  order  to  ensure  an  environment 
conducive  to  sustainable  development,  Viet  Nam  is 
working  with  ASEAN  and  its  partners  in  common 
efforts to maintain and consolidate peace and security 
in the region, including ensuring maritime safety and 
security and the freedom of navigation and overflight 
in the South China Sea — the main artery connecting 
ASEAN with other regions. It is our consistent policy 
that all disputes in the South China Sea can be resolved 
only through peaceful means — on the basis of respect 
for  international  law,  including  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, the effective 
and  full  implementation  of  the  Declaration  of  the 
Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea and the early 
conclusion of the code of conduct for the South China 
Sea.
I believe that, with strong conviction and political 
will,  we  will  be  successful  in  the  implementation  of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in the 
interests of all the peoples of the world, for a safer and 
better life of the children of today and tomorrow. Viet 
Nam pledges to be an active and responsible partner in 
that common endeavour, in order to make sure that no 
country or individual is left behind.
The President: I thank the President of the Socialist 
Republic of Viet Nam for his statement.
Mr.  Truong  Tan  Sang,  President  of  the  Socialist 
Republic  of  Viet  Nam,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  and 
address by the President of Hungary.
18/25 
15-29155
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.5
Mr.  János  Áder,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Hungary, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Áder  (spoke  in  Hungarian;  English 
interpretation provided by delegation): It has been over 
40  years  since  the  publication  of  the  Club  of  Rome’s 
report The Limits to Growth. For over 40 years, we have 
known  that  development,  which  we  had  once  thought 
was  without  limits,  is  very  difficult  to  sustain,  and  it 
has taken more than 40 years for us to finally agree on 
sustainable  development  goals.  That  happened  today, 
and  we  owe  our  gratitude  to  everyone  who  worked 
on  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1).
However, over the course of the past 40 years, the 
world  has  also  changed  considerably.  Today’s  world 
hardly  resembles  the  world  of  40  years  ago.  Over  the 
past 40 years, the population of the world has doubled, 
and greenhouse-gas emissions have also doubled. Over 
the past 40 years, the quantity of fresh water per capita 
has decreased by half, and, during those same 40 years, 
we have witnessed an annual loss of agricultural land, 
the area of which represents the size of Belgium. Over 
the past 40 years, some of the key freshwater sources of 
protein have decreased by 75 per cent.
Today we have adopted 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), with Goal 13 dealing with climate change. 
Nevertheless, the new Agenda leaves a number of other 
issues unresolved. Much work therefore remains to be 
done  on  the  road  to  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change  in  Paris  in  December.  Accordingly,  we  can 
safely  say  that  the  road  we  are  facing  is  a  long  one, 
while the time we have available is extremely short — a 
far cry from 40 years. Within a few days, there will only 
be 40 days left until we will have to reach an agreement 
in  Paris.  People  often  cite  an  East-African  saying,  to 
the  effect  that  we  have  not  inherited  the  Earth  from 
our ancestors to do with it whatever we want; we have 
borrowed  it  from  our  children.  However,  considering 
the  intended  nationally  determined  contributions  to 
the Paris Conference to date, if we do not come to our 
senses, we will wind up destroying and squandering the 
inheritance of our children.
Clearly,  we  have  adopted  impressive  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  in  other  areas.  If  the  climate 
objectives are not met, the consequences of that failure 
will render all the other Sustainable Development Goals 
hopeless. If we are not successful in Paris in reaching 
an  agreement,  if  we  continue  to  emit  unacceptable 
levels  of  carbon  dioxide,  if  we  continue  to  further 
overheat our planet and if we continue to increase the 
adverse impacts we cause, then the ideas of sustainable 
agricultural  food  production  and  sustainable  water 
management will remain only dreams. It is not terribly 
difficult to understand that if we continue to reduce the 
amount of agricultural land, we are also going to reduce 
the amount of food that can be produced. If we continue 
to reduce the natural circulation of water — known as 
the  hydrological  cycle  —  then  natural  disasters  will 
become  increasingly  frequent  and  impactful.  If  we 
continue to see the current rate of acidification of the 
seas  and  oceans,  we  will  endanger  the  primary  food 
source of over 1 billion people.
What  would  the  consequences  of  such  a  scenario 
be? Rather than decrease, poverty would grow. It would 
also entail an increase in social inequality. As a result, 
social tensions would also increase, which would not be 
conducive to good governance, security or peace— in 
fact, such a scenario would render them impossible. In 
the end, that could lead to wars and mass migrations on 
a scale much greater than that which we are currently 
witnessing.
This morning, His Holiness Pope Francis said the 
following in this very Hall:
“[men are] not authorized to abuse [creation], much 
less destroy it” (A/70/PV.3, p. 3).
He also went on to quote the words of his predecessor, 
Pope Paul VI, which were uttered in this Hall 50 years 
ago: “The real peril is in man” (A/PV.1347, para. 45). 
All  of  us  stood  up  and  gave  Pope  Francis  a  standing 
ovation for his words. We also gave a standing ovation 
for  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.
One  year  ago,  at  the  Climate  Summit  here  on 
23  September  2014,  we  all  stood  and  clapped  after 
hearing  the  words  of  Kathy  Jetnil-Kijiner,  who  came 
from Marshall Islands and asked us all to agree, as soon 
as possible, on the climate objectives — because if we 
did not, she and her fellow citizens would be forced to 
move away from Marshall Islands. If the enthusiasm of 
that moment or today’s is genuine, if the applause back 
then and now was not only for the moment, then I would 
ask  all  Member  States  to  reconsider  their  positions 
before  the  Conference  in  Paris.  Please  think  what  we 
stand to lose if we do not come to a tangible agreement 
at  the  end  of  the  year  in  Paris.  We  do  not  even  have 
15-29155
19/25
A/70/PV.5 
25/09/2015
two times 40 days to conclude an agreement that will 
substantially influence the future of our children.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic 
of Hungary for his statement.
Mr.  János  Áder,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Hungary, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of Mongolia.
Mr. Tsakhia Elbegdorj, President of Mongolia, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
President Elbegdorj: At the dawn of the new century 
we adopted — and have since then implemented — the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  have  achieved 
many targets, but have failed to achieve others. By and 
large, however, the global community passed the test. 
We have all learned lessons and made huge strides.
This 
the 
time, 
international  community  has 
produced  a  history-making  document  contained 
in  resolution  70/1.  The  entire  family  of  the  United 
Nations  agreed  on  the  road  map  towards  sustainable 
development.  Now  humankind  has  a  truly  universal, 
ambitious action plan for the next 15 years. Never before 
in human history has such a universal and unanimous 
agreement been reached. We agreed on urgent targets, 
on a broad range of economic and social challenges and 
on environmental exigencies. I would like to take this 
opportunity to express my heartfelt thanks to all those 
who made it possible. I thank Member States for their 
tireless  work,  sleepless  nights  and  firm  commitment. 
They have shouldered a mountain of responsibilities to 
produce the truly historic 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  for  humankind.  Now  the  responsibility 
is  on  us,  the  Member  States,  to  ensure  its  full 
implementation.
Mongolia’s commitment to international cooperation 
remains  strong.  The  success  of 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals will mainly depend on a revitalized 
global partnership, an active engagement on the part of 
Governments, as well as the resilience of and synergy 
with civil society and the private sector.
It  is  widely  recognized  that  each  country  has  a 
primary responsibility for its own development, but, at 
the same time, the world community should not forget 
that there are many countries, including the land-locked 
developing countries, that are still in need of a helping 
hand.
One  thing  is  certain:  every  nation  State  should 
always  strive  for  good  governance,  the  strict  rule  of 
law  and  a  sound  human  rights  policy.  In  order  to  put 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  into  practice,  we 
need  to  have  a  robust,  inclusive  and  open  mechanism 
and  policies,  as  outlined  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development and the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda  on  financing  for  development.  We  must  have 
reliable  implementing,  monitoring  and  accountability 
regulations and institutions in place.
Justice and fairness is the order of the day. Every 
nation and Government must actively contribute to the 
global good with its own capabilities and differentiated 
responsibility. We must also reach a global agreement 
on climate change later this year in Paris.
We need to mobilize our full potential to achieve the 
primary purpose of the founding of the United Nations, 
namely,  the  promotion  of  peace,  respect  for  human 
rights, and inclusive economic and social development.
I believe that, in the twenty-first century, the United 
Nations will remain at the heart of our humanity.
The President: I thank the President of Mongolia 
for his statement.
Mr. Tsakhia Elbegdorj, President of Mongolia, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  His  Majesty  Don  Felipe  VI,  King  of  the 
Kingdom of Spain.
His Majesty Don Felipe VI, King of the Kingdom of 
Spain, was escorted to the rostrum.
King Don Felipe VI (spoke in Spanish): It is again 
a  pleasure  and  a  great  honour  to  speak  to  the  United 
Nations on behalf of Spain. The Heads of Member States 
of the United Nations have come here to commit — on 
behalf of our peoples — to transform the world in the 
next 15 years and to rid it of the extreme poverty and 
hunger that still afflict a large portion of humankind. 
We will make a change for everyone, everywhere. That 
is our conviction and our commitment.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1), the agenda for change that we adopted 
today,  is  the  result  of  a  negotiation  among  equals.  It 
reflects the voices of millions of citizens. They are the 
ones who told us what they expect from us. They did 
so on behalf of a new generation of children who will 
turn 15 in 2030. We are here to solemnly promise those 
20/25 
15-29155
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.5
children that each and every one of them will be able 
to fully develop their abilities without the hindrance of 
discrimination.
Standing before them, we are committed to create 
sustainable  wealth,  while  giving  back  to  nature  what 
we haven take from her, because we are only her guests 
and temporary administrators. It is therefore essential 
that the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change to be held 
in Paris this coming December be a success and achieve 
results that rise to the challenge we face.
His Holiness Pope Francis, who has been so close 
to us today, teaches us in his encyclical letter Laudato 
Si’ that the interdependence that is typical of our time 
requires us to think in terms of a common project. To 
think of a single world requires us to act as one.
In that spirit, we have already taken decisive steps 
that  give  us  hope,  thanks  to  the  Millennium  Agenda 
initiated  15  years  ago.  However,  development  is  not 
and has never been a uniform process. Achieving it is 
not  guaranteed.  Wars  like  the  ongoing  one  in  Syria, 
natural disasters such as the earthquake in Nepal and 
epidemics such as Ebola can undo decades of progress 
achieved by developing countries, and they demand of 
us our solidarity and sustained attention.
Even 
in 
the  more  developed  countries, 
the 
experience of the recent global crises has exposed the 
fragility of many situations that we had thought were 
more  stable.  Above  all,  it  has  alerted  us  to  the  fact 
that no one is immune to the weaknesses of a growth 
model that we must now repair and improve, while at 
the same time preserving its strengths and eliminating 
its excesses.
The  globalization  of  finance,  technology  and 
information  will  have  to  be  accompanied  by  the 
globalization  of  solidarity,  knowledge,  equity,  liberty 
and human dignity.
The Agenda adopted today is therefore a universal 
one,  and  we  are  all  responsible  for  ensuring  its 
successful  completion.  Spain  will  contribute  to  that 
goal. My country has already vigorously supported the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  through  the 
MDG Development Goals Fund. Our contribution was 
in fact the largest made by any single country towards 
achieving the MDGs.
At  present,  we  are  firmly  committed  to  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  and  our 
commitment is illustrated by our actions. Working with 
the United Nations Development Programme, we have 
established  the  first  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
Fund,  which  is  already  promoting  projects  in  over 
17 countries.
Our  cooperation  policy  is  also  aligned  with  the 
2030  Agenda,  and  official  development  assistance  is 
one  of  its  pillars.  Together  with  the  European  Union, 
we  are  committed  to  the  goal  of  providing  0.7  per 
cent  of  our  gross  domestic  product  by  2030  —  with 
an  emphasis  on  the  least  developed  countries.  We 
cannot forget, however, that a great deal of poverty and 
marginalization  occurs  in  middle-income  countries. 
Accordingly,  we  will  continue  to  devote  part  of  our 
attention and resources to them.
It  is  essential  to  achieve  equitable  development, 
genuine  and  effective  enjoyment  of 
rights  and 
equal  opportunities  for  all.  That  requires  creating 
opportunities both in education — hence the importance 
of 
innovation  and 
technology — and in job creation, particularly among 
young  people,  an  area  in  which  Spain  is  particularly 
sensitive.
the  catalysts  of  knowledge, 
We must also ensure equal opportunities for women 
in parity with men. They deserve the same roles as men 
in the workplace, in the exercise of their political and 
social rights and in society in general.
The idea that we are all part of a global community 
ruled  by  law  and  oriented  towards  the  common  good 
was  put  forward  by  some  of  the  best  Spanish  minds 
at  the  beginning  of  modern  times,  including  Father 
Francisco de Vitoria, one of the founders of international 
law.  Seventy  years  ago,  when  the  Organization  was 
established,  the  world  took  a  giant  step  towards 
fulfilling that dream. Then as now, the goal that unites 
us  is  to  create  a  community  of  citizens  conscious  of 
their responsibilities in relation to their neighbours and 
the  planet  that  they  inhabit.  We,  the  people  of  Spain 
of twenty-first century, believe in that dream, and we 
would like to make it a reality. It is our conviction. It is 
our commitment.
The President: I thank His Majesty Don Felipe VI, 
King of the Kingdom of Spain, for his statement.
His Majesty Don Felipe VI, King of the Kingdom of 
Spain, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Swiss Federation.
15-29155
21/25
A/70/PV.5 
25/09/2015
Ms. Simonetta Sommaruga, President of the Swiss 
Federation, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Sommaruga  (spoke  in  French):  In  the 
framework of a unique process, 193 States have come 
here  today  and  agreed  on  an  ambitious  agenda  for 
a  sustainable  world.  They  were  not,  however,  alone 
in  putting  that  process  into  place.  International  civil 
society, the private sector, scientists as well as experts 
from  the  United  Nations  all  played  an  active  role. 
Consultations were held in over 100 countries, and more 
than  7  million  people  took  part  in  a  survey  that  gave 
them an opportunity to voice their needs and priorities. 
The  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1) is therefore an Agenda of the people, 
by  the  people  and  for  the  people.  We  all  know  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  is  not  a 
magic wand that will simply wish away all the world’s 
problems. However, I firmly believe that the Agenda is 
an extremely promising approach to resolving many of 
the world’s problems.
For  Switzerland,  the  following  points  became 
clear  from  the  very  beginning  of  the  process.  We 
could no longer remain satisfied with solely promoting 
development in the southern hemisphere, while what is 
known as the developed world carried on with business 
as  usual.  We  could  not  lose  sight  of  the  environment 
when we think about social and economic development. 
And development could be sustainable without respect 
for human rights and the protection of the rule of law.
People  are  at  the  heart  of  the  Goals  enshrined  in 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  We 
will  not  be  able  to  honour  that  often-cited  pledge 
unless  we  adhere  to  our  own  principle  of  leaving  no 
one behind, unless we pay special attention to the most 
marginalized  and  most  vulnerable,  unless  we  counter 
growing injustices with a culture of equity, unless we 
preserve our natural resources, and unless we provide 
young  people  with  future  job  prospects.  Switzerland 
has  accordingly  focused  its  efforts  on  the  following 
goals.
First, we have concentrated on the issue of water. 
That  extends  beyond  access  to  drinking  water  and 
sanitation  infrastructure.  Thanks  to  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals, 
the 
number  of  people  than  before  —  over  4.2  billion 
individuals — have access to piped drinking water.
today  more 
twice 
than 
Secondly,  Switzerland  has  also  advocated,  in  an 
ad  hoc  fashion,  in  favour  of  an  ambitious  goal  in  the 
area of gender equality. Over the past 15 years, gender 
equality  has  been  successfully  achieved,  to  a  large 
extent, among primary-school teachers. We must now 
achieve gender equality in all areas of society. In most 
countries, a woman’s salary still represents only 60 to 
75 per cent of a man’s average salary; and although the 
percentage of women members of national Parliaments 
has almost doubled over the past 20 years, women still 
represent only 22 per cent of all members of Parliaments 
in the world.
Thirdly,  Switzerland  has  also  committed  itself  to 
the goal of promoting inclusive societies fully dedicated 
to peace in order to strengthen the rule of law, access to 
justice, respect for human rights and the fight against 
violence and corruption.
and 
related 
Fourthly,  Switzerland  has  undertaken  a  goal 
specific to health care that addresses non-communicable 
diseases,  sexually  transmitted  diseases,  reproductive 
health 
rights.  Non-communicable 
diseases  are  responsible  for  over  60  per  cent  of  all 
deaths  —  a  phenomenon  that  is  particularly  present 
in  low-  and  middle-income  countries  —  even  though 
a  large  portion  of  non-communicable  diseases  can  be 
prevented.
Those goals must be implemented. For that reason, 
we  have  strongly  advocated  for  an  effective  follow-
up mechanism and review. We firmly believe that the 
High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development 
is well positioned to carry out that function.
In Switzerland we have a system of direct democracy, 
with very wide-ranging rights relating to political self-
determination.  Our  society  and  our  citizens  are  used 
to having a say in the political process. Over the past 
200 years, more than one third of all referendums held 
worldwide  have  taken  place  in  Switzerland.  For  us, 
therefore,  it  was  no  challenge  to  include  —  from  the 
very beginning — representatives of our civil society, 
the private sector and the scientific and political fields 
in  the  process  of  defining  our  priorities  for  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. In implementing 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  we  will  proceed 
with the same approach: while politicians will be left 
with the responsibility for guiding the process, citizens 
will be given the opportunity to have their voices heard.
As  we  all  know,  one  of  the  biggest  challenges  in 
this  globalized  era  consists  in  establishing  a  closer 
relationship and greater trust between citizens and the 
political  sphere  and  its  institutions.  That  is  why  the 
22/25 
15-29155
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.5
participatory  process  in  the  development  of  the  2030 
Agenda  was  so  important.  Now,  let  us  get  to  work 
together and for the common good.
The President: I thank the President of the Swiss 
Federation for her statement.
Ms. Simonetta Sommaruga, President of the Swiss 
Federation, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Honduras.
Mr. Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Honduras,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
President Hernández Alvarado (spoke in Spanish): 
Honduras has come to the General Assembly today to 
commit  its  political  will  and  efforts  to  achieving  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1).  One  year  ago  in  this  very  Hall,  I  spoke  of  the 
tragic  situation  of  migrants,  and  in  particular  that  of 
unaccompanied  minors,  from  the  northern  triangle 
of  Central  America  flowing  towards  the  United 
States  (see  A/69/PV.7).  They  are  people  driven  out 
by  violence  and  grinding  poverty,  the  result  of  drug 
trafficking  in  the  North  and  the  operations  of  cartels 
and international organized crime in the region. On that 
occasion, I proposed a plan, the Alliance for Prosperity 
in the Northern Triangle, intended to improve security 
and  create  opportunities  and  genuine  development 
along  our  immigration  route.  That  joint  initiative 
of  the  Governments  of  Guatemala,  El  Salvador  and 
Honduras was welcomed by President Obama and his 
Administration  and  by  many  members  of  the  United 
States House of Representatives and Senate. Currently, 
a generous proposal in support of that plan for prosperity 
of Central America is under consideration in the United 
States Congress.
We have made real progress in the areas of public 
safety  and  job  opportunities.  We  can  also  show 
real  improvements  in  combating  drug  trafficking 
and  insecurity.  That  can  be  clearly  seen  in  the 
reduction  in  the  murder  rate  and  in  drug  trafficking-
related  crimes.  We  have  dramatically  reduced  drug 
trafficking throughout our territory. We have destroyed 
clandestine  infrastructure,  such  as  aeroplane  landing 
strips and drug laboratories. We have apprehended and 
prosecuted many drug traffickers. We have extradited 
powerful  drug  lords  and  seized  their  ill-gotten  gains. 
Nevertheless, we will not rest until we have completely 
rooted out the drug scourge from our territory, which 
has done so much harm to our peoples and region and, 
indeed, all humankind.
On creating opportunities and combating poverty, 
we  have  developed  the  Vida  Mejor  programme  with 
the  goal  of  improving  the  living  conditions  of  poorer 
people.  Evidence  of  the  programme’s  effectiveness 
can  be  seen  every  day  in  Honduras.  Through  the 
Vida  Mejor  programme  and  the  legal  framework  of 
the  social  protection  system,  recently  adopted  by  our 
National Congress, we are working on the Sustainable 
Development Goals in the areas of income, education, 
health, quality of life, family housing and, in particular, 
in generating productive employment for women.
Today,  we  realize  that  that  is  the  most  effective 
way  of  channelling  resources  and  programmes  to 
fight poverty. As we had anticipated, the fewer drugs 
there  are,  the  more  security  there  is;  and  the  more 
development there is, the more opportunities there are, 
leading  to  a  reduction  in  the  migration  flowing  from 
Honduras into other countries. It is not just Honduras 
that  holds  that  view;  that  fact  is  also  affirmed  by  the 
migration authorities of Mexico and the United States.
those  gains,  we  still  face 
challenges. We must do more to reduce poverty, infant 
mortality  and  maternal  mortality  and  to  maintain 
disease control, particularly the control of HIV/AIDS. 
Those challenges constitute a social, economic, political 
and, above all, moral debt that cannot be ignored and 
cannot  be  delayed  in  its  repayment.  The  progress  we 
have made, on which we place such high hopes, has not 
been easy.
However,  despite 
In addition to the fight against drug trafficking and 
poverty, we must also deal with the challenging effects 
of climate change in Honduras. Our country is one of 
the  three  most  vulnerable  countries  in  the  world,  as 
noted in a risk index prepared by an organization called 
German  Watch.  I  repeat:  the  third  most  vulnerable 
country  in  the  world.  That  vulnerability  became 
evident with the onset of the El Niño phenomenon. For 
the second consecutive year, drought, the most severe 
recorded  since  the  middle  of  the  twentieth  century, 
has  generated  critical  risks  to  food  security  for  the 
Honduran  people  and  a  genuine  national  emergency. 
Such  an  emergency  is  a  serious  obstacle  in  our  fight 
against poverty, and it increases the risk of tragically 
exacerbating the undesirable migration processes.
What does the El Niño climate-change phenomenon 
represent  for  Honduras?  Most  of  our  harvests  have 
15-29155
23/25
A/70/PV.5 
25/09/2015
been  lost,  especially  food  crops.  We  are  losing  our 
livestock, and in many communities, water is becoming 
increasingly  scarce.  More  than  250,000  Honduran 
families  have  been  left  in  a  critical  situation.  Our 
Government  is  assisting  the  affected  families  with 
our own resources and with those that we hope will be 
generously  contributed  by  organizations  and  friendly 
Governments.  In  a  major  effort,  we  are  determined 
to  dedicate  nearly  one  third  of  our  territory,  or  more 
than 3 million hectares, to be protected areas so as to 
defend  the  health  of  planet  Earth  and  to  preserve  our 
environmental  heritage.  Today,  as  a  result  of  climate 
change,  a  severe  plague  of  bark  weevils  has  led  to 
the loss of 112,000 hectares of pine forests — almost 
7 per cent of the total coniferous forests in the country. 
Because  of  El  Niño,  and  climate  change  in  general, 
today  we  must  radically  change  our  production  and 
energy matrices, as we need to immediately implement 
our national master plan for managing water, soils and 
forests. We must do that now, not next year or within 
the next decade, but immediately, right now.
From this rostrum, one can look out at the Assembly 
and see that we all appear alike. Nevertheless, with all 
due respect, from the climate-change standpoint, we are 
not all the same. We are not the same with regard to the 
causes and effects of climate change. Today, it seems 
that  the  countries  in  the  worst  situation,  the  poorest 
countries,  the  countries  most  affected,  are  the  ones 
that have to pay for climate change. We could say that 
humankind will become mature only if we can accept 
that  there  are  common  and  shared  responsibilities, 
albeit  different  ones,  in  the  generation  of  climate 
change, so there must also be shared responsibilities in 
finding solutions.
Therefore,  those  who  have  contributed  the  most 
to  generating  the  crisis  should  contribute  the  most  to 
solving it. We must do that together, of course — together 
because  we  are  all  owners  and  inhabitants  of  planet 
Earth, and not one of us is planning to move anywhere 
else. On behalf of Honduras, I call upon all nations of the 
world, especially the most developed countries, to work 
to  achieve  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  to 
deal with the challenges and effects of climate change 
within  the  framework  of  co-responsibility,  which  all, 
without  exception,  should  recognize  as  the  principle 
guiding the actions of the international community. 
The time has come to assume our joint responsibility 
as  a  moral  and  political  imperative.  In  that  firm  but 
respectful belief, I call on the leaders of the world to 
work  together  to  preserve  this  nation  that  we  call  the 
Earth.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic 
of Honduras for his statement.
Mr. Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado, President 
of the Republic of Honduras, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe.
Mr.  Robert  Mugabe,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Zimbabwe, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Mugabe:  Fifteen  years  ago, 
in  a 
setting similar to today’s, we adopted the Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  which, 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  mobilized  global 
efforts  aimed  at  meeting  the  pressing  development 
challenges  we  faced  at  the  time.  On  balance,  some 
progress  has  been  made  in  meeting  those  goals,  but 
overall it has been unsatisfactory and insufficient. The 
uneven progress made within and among countries and 
regions  has  widened  inequalities  and  in  some  cases 
deepened poverty.
through 
Our  gathering  at  this  Summit  therefore  confirms 
our  shared  conclusion  that  the  battle  against  poverty, 
inequality,  exclusion  and  global  warming  is  far  from 
being won. It is also confirmation of our shared resolve 
to broaden the scope of our actions and launch an all-
out  war  whose  ultimate  goal  is  the  transformation  of 
the world we live in today. To say that our development 
agenda for the next 15 years is ambitious does not quite 
describe the enormity of the transformational vision we 
have set ourselves.
The success of the new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, which we have adopted today (resolution 
70/1), will depend on several factors. Key among them 
are the concrete actions we will take at the national level 
to domesticate this international Agenda. In Zimbabwe, 
following  a  series  of  multistakeholder  participatory 
consultations,  including  with  development  partners, 
we adopted a national position on how to align the new 
Agenda with our national development priorities. These 
are  contained  in  Zimbabwe’s  agenda  for  sustainable 
socioeconomic transformation, which is based on four 
pillars  —  food  security  and  nutrition,  social  services 
and  poverty  eradication,  infrastructure  and  utilities 
and, lastly, value addition and beneficiation. Zimbabwe 
acknowledges that the Sustainable Development Goals 
24/25 
15-29155
25/09/2015 
A/70/PV.5
are  integrated  and  indivisible.  But  due  to  our  limited 
resources,  there  are  severe  constraints  on  our  ability 
to implement all of them at the same time. Inevitably, 
therefore, we have had to prioritize their implementation. 
I  want  to  confirm  and  underline,  nevertheless,  that 
Zimbabwe  is  committed  to  implementing  all  the 
Sustainable Development Goals. As resources become 
available  we  will  naturally  adjust  the  basket  of  goals 
that we are implementing at any one time.
In the context of my country’s implementation of the 
new Agenda, our key priority and critical challenge is to 
put the economy back on a sustained growth trajectory. 
The  reforms  we  are  undertaking,  including  measures 
designed to attract investments, will materialize if the 
unjustified sanctions that Zimbabwe has been subjected 
to  for  the  past  15  years  are  removed.  In  the  spirit  of 
the transformative Agenda we are all about to subscribe 
to,  we  call  for  their  unconditional  and  immediate 
removal. Freed of the fetters of sanctions, my country 
stands a better chance of achieving its national vision 
of  sustainable, 
inclusive  growth,  human-centred 
development,  structural  transformation  and  poverty 
eradication. I repeat: remove these sanctions. They are 
harming our country.
In  pledging  that  no  one  will  be  left  behind  as 
we  embark  on  this  collective  journey,  our  Agenda  is 
a  truly  empowering  instrument  and  mechanism.  In 
Zimbabwe,  we  have  adopted  and  are  implementing 
several  programmes  aimed  at  empowering  our 
previously  disadvantaged  people.  A  key  component 
of  our  empowerment  agenda  has  been  a  land  reform 
programme that, in contradiction of its detractors, has 
lifted many families out of poverty. In the spirit of the 
new Agenda, we are determined to leave no one behind. 
We  will  therefore  continue  to  refine  and  adjust  our 
empowerment  programmes  so  that  they  reach  all  the 
vulnerable and disadvantaged groups in our country.
It  is  critical  that  adequate  financial  resources  be 
mobilized and made available if our new Agenda is to 
be  successfully  implemented.  The  focus  on  domestic 
public  resources  as  the  development  Agenda’s  major 
source  of  funding  corresponds  to  the  principle  of  the 
primacy of national ownership of it. In order to generate 
the  required  levels  of  resources,  national  economies 
must  grow.  For  growth  to  be  achieved,  in  addition  to 
appropriate  domestic  policies,  our  countries  need  a 
coherent  and  supportive  international  environment. 
This  transformative  Agenda  must  therefore  not  be 
limited to a national level but must also extend to the 
international  arena,  so  that  the  systemic  issues  that 
impede our countries’ development can be addressed.
We must reinforce international cooperation aimed 
at  stemming  the  haemorrhaging  of  Africa’s  resources 
that results from transfer pricing, tax evasion and other 
criminal  activities.  We  should  redouble  our  efforts  to 
agree  on  the  Doha  Development  Agenda  and  put  in 
place a universal, rules-based, predictable, transparent, 
inclusive,  non-discriminatory  and  equitable  trading 
system.  Reform  of  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  is 
long  overdue.  The  issue  of  debt  sustainability  calls 
for  urgent,  clear-headed  resolution.  These  are  not 
new issues; they have been with us for too long. They 
constitute a huge part of the baggage that we must shed 
if  the  transformative  new  Agenda  is  to  succeed.  We 
hope  that  in  adopting  it,  all  of  us  are  aware  of  what 
it entails. We hope that we are similarly committed to 
shedding old habits and contributing to ushering in the 
potentially glorious era that our new Agenda promises.
The success of our Agenda calls for more, not less, 
international cooperation and solidarity. The fact that 
we are enlarging the circle of our partnerships should 
not weaken existing ones or the mutual responsibilities 
we already share. In fact, it should strengthen them. The 
universality of this Agenda is not just that it applies to 
all of us but also that it belongs to all of us. It promises a 
brave new world, a new world that we must consciously 
construct, a new world that calls for the creation of a 
new  global  citizen.  I  want  to  believe  that  we  are  up 
to  this  task  that  we  have  voluntarily  and  collectively 
committed ourselves to. Our success and, in particular, 
the  promise  of  a  new  world  that  awaits  us  depend  on 
that commitment.
The President: I thank the President of the Republic 
of Zimbabwe for his statement.
Mr.  Robert  Mugabe,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Zimbabwe, was escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
15-29155
25/25
