United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
51st plenary meeting
Thursday, 12 November 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.51
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 111
Notification by the Secretary-General under 
Article 12, paragraph 2, of the Charter of the 
United Nations
Note by the Secretary-General (A/70/300)
The  President:  As  members  are  aware, 
in 
accordance with the provisions of Article 12, paragraph 
2,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  with  the 
consent of the Security Council, the Secretary-General 
is mandated to notify the General Assembly of matters 
relative  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security that are being dealt with by the Security 
Council  and  of  matters  with  which  the  Council  has 
ceased to deal. In that connection, the General Assembly 
has before it a note by the Secretary-General issued as 
document A/70/300.
May I take it that the Assembly takes note of that 
document?
It was so decided.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 111?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 30
Report of the Security Council
Report of the Security Council (A/70/2)
The  President:  It  is  a  pleasure  to  preside  over 
this important meeting of the General Assembly as it 
considers  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/70/2). The introduction to the report was prepared 
by  New  Zealand,  as  President  of  the  Council  in  July, 
and is presented today by the current President for the 
month of November, Ambassador Rycroft of the United 
Kingdom.  According  to  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, the annual report of the Security Council shall 
include  an  account  of  the  measures  that  the  Council 
has  decided  upon,  or  taken,  to  maintain  international 
peace and security. As we look around the world today, 
it is clear that the Security Council plays a fundamental 
role in the Organization as it seeks to prevent and end 
conflicts and tackle other threats to peace and security, 
including violent extremism.
The  Council  carries  out  its  mandates  on  behalf 
of  all  Member  States.  Therefore,  the  Assembly’s 
consideration of this report of the Council is an important 
aspect of the transparency and accountability that the 
wider membership expects with regard to the Security 
Council. The annual report was among the many issues 
discussed when I addressed the Security Council open 
debate on working methods last month (see S/PV.7539). 
While the report has improved in recent years, Member 
States have also called for further improvements in its 
analytical quality.
However,  the  report  is  only  one  of  the  many 
interactions  between  the  Assembly  and  the  Council, 
and  such  interaction  will  be  particularly  vital  during 
this  year  of  joint  activity.  As  Member  States  know, 
the  Presidents  of  the  Security  Council  and  General 
Assembly are tasked with bringing forward the process 
to  select  and  appoint  the  next  Secretary-General, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-36233 (E)
*1536233*
A/70/PV.51 
12/11/2015
and  I  hope  that  we  will  be  able  to  circulate  a  joint 
letter  clarifying  that  overall  process  very  soon.  The 
President of the Security Council and I have also been 
working  together  on  a  peacebuilding  review  and  the 
reappointment of co-facilitators in September to work 
toward concurrent and identical General Assembly and 
Security Council resolutions as the formal outcomes of 
that process.
I  look  forward  to  hearing  Member  States’  views 
on this year’s annual report of the Council, as well as 
proposals  on  how  best  to  make  it  a  more  useful  tool 
for  the  General  Assembly’s  consideration,  as  we  look 
to  continually  improve  the  interaction  between  the 
different organs of the United Nations.
I now give the floor to the President of the Security 
Council,  Ambassador  Matthew  Rycroft,  to  introduce 
the report of the Council.
Mr.  Rycroft  (United  Kingdom):  Let  me  begin  by 
congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  behalf  of  all  the  members 
of the Security Council, on your election as President 
of the General Assembly at its seventieth session, and I 
thank you for arranging today’s meeting.
As  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the 
month  of  November,  it  is  my  honour  to  introduce  the 
annual report of the Council (A/70/2), which covers the 
period from 1 August 2014 to 31 July 2015.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  entrusts  the 
Security  Council  with  the  primary  responsibility  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
Over  the  past  year,  with  the  support  of  the  United 
Nations membership, the Security Council has sought 
to  discharge  its  responsibilities  actively,  urging  the 
peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts  and  undertaking  a 
series of peacekeeping and peacebuilding activities all 
over the world.
In  keeping  with  recent  trends,  the  activity  of 
the  Security  Council  increased  during  the  reporting 
period.  During  the  period  under  review,  the  Council 
held  267  formal  meetings,  of  which  248  were  public. 
The Council adopted 65 resolutions and 27 presidential 
statements and issued 148 statements to the press. The 
Council also conducted three missions, one to Europe 
and Africa, which included Belgium, the Netherlands, 
South Sudan, Somalia and Kenya, in August 2014; one 
to  Haiti  in  January  2015,  and  one  to  Africa  in  March 
2015,  which  included  the  Central  African  Republic, 
Burundi and Ethiopia.
in 
regarding 
The  situation 
the  Middle  East 
featured 
prominently  on  the  Council’s  agenda.  The  Council 
followed  the  security  situations  in  Iraq,  the  Syrian 
Arab  Republic  and  Yemen  and  adopted  a  number  of 
resolutions.  On  Syria,  the  Security  Council  adopted 
resolution  2191  (2014),  in  which  the  Council  renewed 
decisions 
the  authorization  of  United 
Nations  agencies  to  deliver  humanitarian  aid  across 
borders and the implementation of related monitoring 
mechanisms,  and  demanded  that  all  parties  to  the 
Syrian domestic conflict comply with their obligations 
under international humanitarian law and international 
human  rights  law.  That  resolution  was  followed  by 
resolution  2209  (2015)  concerning  the  use  of  toxic 
chemicals, such as chlorine, as a weapon in the Syrian 
Arab Republic.
On  Yemen,  the  Council  adopted  resolution  2201 
(2015),  which  demanded  that  the  Houthis  withdraw 
their forces from Government institutions and engage 
in  United  Nations-brokered  negotiations;  resolution 
2204  (2015),  which  renewed  the  sanctions  measures 
introduced  by  resolution  2140  (2014),  after  the  first 
three 
in  November;  and 
resolution  2216  (2015),  which  listed  an  additional 
two  individuals,  Abdel-Malik  al-Houthi  and  former 
President  Ahmed  Ali  Abdullah  Saleh,  and  introduced 
an arms embargo on the individuals designated under 
the sanctions regime and those acting on their behalf or 
at their direction in Yemen.
individuals  were 
listed 
the  Council’s  agenda, 
Other  developments  in  the  Middle  East  figured 
prominently  on 
including 
the  Palestinian  question  and  the  United  Nations 
Disengagement  Observer  Force  and  Lebanon.  The 
Council also adopted resolution 2231 (2015), endorsing 
the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  on  Iran, 
following  the  diplomatic  efforts  by  China,  France, 
Germany, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom, 
the United States of America, the High Representative 
of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security 
Policy and the Islamic Republic of Iran.
The Council also regularly considered the situation 
in Ukraine and adopted resolution 2202 (2015).
Much of the Council’s activity focused on Africa, 
including  meetings  on  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  the 
Central African Republic, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, 
Somalia, the Sudan, South Sudan and Western Sahara. 
The Council also responded to the Ebola outbreak with 
the adoption of resolution 2177 (2014).
2/27 
15-36233
12/11/2015 
A/70/PV.51
Concerning  South  Sudan, 
the  Council  also 
established  a  new  subsidiary  body,  a  Committee  to 
oversee  a  travel  ban  and  asset  freeze,  pursuant  to 
resolution  2206  (2015).  The  Committee  subsequently 
imposed sanctions on six individuals.
Thematic, general and cross-cutting issues remained 
a priority for the Council, including non-proliferation 
and  the  Committee  established  pursuant  to  resolution 
1540 (2004); threats to international peace and security 
caused by terrorist acts; small arms and light weapons; 
the protection of civilians in armed conflict; children 
and  armed  conflict;  women  and  peace  and  security; 
peacekeeping 
peacebuilding; 
security-sector reform; sanctions; cooperation between 
the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  subregional 
organizations;  peace  and  security  in  Africa;  and  the 
rule of law.
post-conflict 
and 
The Council met regularly to address the threat posed 
by Al-Qaida, the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant 
(ISIL), the Al-Nusra Front, foreign terrorist fighters and 
the spread of violent extremism. The Council adopted 
resolution  2170  (2014)  to  cut  off  funding  for  ISIL, 
the  Al-Nusra  Front  and  all  other  individuals,  groups, 
undertakings  and  entities  associated  with  Al-Qaida, 
and  resolution  2199  (2015)  to  further  constrain  their 
financing, including new measures on the trade in oil 
and oil products for their benefit, as well as the looting 
and smuggling of antiquities from Iraq and the Syrian 
Arab  Republic.  In  addition,  the  Council  added  32 
individuals and five entities to the sanctions list of the 
Al-Qaida Sanctions Committee established pursuant to 
resolutions 1267 (1999) and 1989 (2011).
The  Council  also  adopted  resolution  2178  (2014), 
addressing the threat posed by foreign terrorist fighters 
and  requiring  States  to  establish  criminal  offences 
sufficient  to  enable  the  prosecution  of  specified 
offences and calling for States to enhance international 
cooperation in that regard; resolution 2178 (2014) also 
addressed the need to combat violent extremism as an 
essential  element  of  combating  the  threat  of  foreign 
terrorist  fighters.  In  addition,  the  Council  strongly 
condemned  the  escalation  of  attacks  by  Boko  Haram, 
and  expressed  concern  at  the  continuing  threat  posed 
by the group.
This year marks the seventieth anniversary of the 
founding  of  the  United  Nations.  The  Council  held  an 
open  debate  on  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security  in  February  2015  (S/PV.7389),  reiterating  its 
responsibility to uphold the purposes and principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations. The Council held two 
open  debates  on  women  and  peace  and  security,  one 
in October 2014 (see S/PV.7289) and the other in April 
2015  (see  S/PV.7428),  and,  at  a  debate  in  May  on  the 
protection  of  journalists  (see  S/PV.7450),  the  Council 
adopted the second-ever resolution on the subject in 10 
years, resolution 2222 (2015).
In  November  2014,  in  another  innovation  for  the 
Council,  the  Council  was  briefed,  for  the  first  time, 
on  the  role  of  policing  in  peacekeeping  and  post-
conflict peacebuilding, and adopted the Council’s first 
resolution dedicated to policing issues (resolution 2185 
(2014))  to  respond  to  the  contemporary  challenges  of 
peacekeeping operations.
In  conclusion,  consistent  with  usual  practice, 
the  introduction  to  the  report  was  prepared  by  New 
Zealand,  which  held  the  presidency  of  the  Security 
Council  in  July  2015.  Members  of  the  Council  also 
contributed  to  the  preparation  of  the  report.  I  extend 
thanks to the Secretariat for compiling the report and to 
all those involved in producing it. I look forward to this 
morning’s  discussion  of  the  report  by  Member  States 
and will convey the views of members of the General 
Assembly to my colleagues in the Security Council.
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  On 
behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM),  allow 
me,  at  the  outset,  to  express  NAM’s  appreciation  to 
you, Mr. President, for holding this debate, which will 
provide  the  General  Assembly  with  an  opportunity 
to  examine,  scrutinize  and  evaluate  the  report  on  the 
activities of the Security Council (A/70/2).
The provision in the Charter of the United Nations 
requiring the Council to report to the General Assembly 
was  designed  to  help  the  Assembly,  as  the  chief 
deliberative  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations, to exercise its mandate with regard to issues 
relating to the maintenance of international peace and 
security.
Member  States  have  conferred  on  the  Security 
Council the primary responsibility for the maintenance 
of international peace and security, pursuant to Article 
24, paragraph 1, of the Charter of the United Nations. 
In that context, the Council acts on behalf of Member 
States.  That  is  why  NAM  stresses  that  the  Council 
should  report  and  be  accountable  to  the  General 
Assembly,  in  accordance  with  paragraph  3  of  Article 
24 of the Charter.
15-36233
3/27
A/70/PV.51 
12/11/2015
NAM underscores the need for States Members of 
the  United  Nations  to  fully  respect  the  functions  and 
powers of each principal organ of the United Nations, 
in  particular  the  General  Assembly,  and  to  maintain 
the balance among those organs within their respective 
Charter-based  functions  and  powers.  NAM  also 
stresses  that  the  Security  Council  must  fully  observe 
all  provisions  in  the  Charter,  as  well  as  all  of  the 
General Assembly resolutions that clarify the Council’s 
relationship  with  the  Assembly  and  other  principal 
organs.  In  that  context,  we  affirm  that  Article  24  of 
the  Charter  does  not  necessarily  provide  the  Security 
Council  with  the  competence  to  address  issues  that 
fall  within  the  functions  and  powers  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council, 
including  in  the  areas  of  norm-setting,  legislation, 
administrative and budgetary matters, and establishing 
definitions,  bearing  in  mind  that  the  Assembly  is  the 
body primarily tasked with the progressive development 
of international law and its codification.
NAM  reiterates  its  concern  about  the  continuing 
encroachment by the Security Council on the functions 
and powers of the General Assembly and the Economic 
and Social Council, which it does by addressing issues 
that  traditionally  fall  within  the  competence  of  those 
organs.  NAM  is  also  concerned  over  the  attempts  by 
the Security Council to use thematic issues to expand 
its  mandate  into  areas  that  do  not  pose  a  threat  to 
international  peace  and  security.  NAM 
therefore 
urges  the  Council  to  confine  itself  to  its  mandate, 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Charter. 
All  organs  and  bodies  of  the  United  Nations  should 
carry out only those tasks that are established in their 
respective mandates.
NAM  urges  all  States  to  uphold  the  primacy  of 
and full respect for the provisions of the Charter of the 
United Nations pertaining to the functions and powers of 
the Assembly, and calls on the Presidents of the General 
Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the 
Security  Council  to  conduct  regular  discussions  and 
coordination  among  themselves  regarding  the  agenda 
and  programme  of  work  of  the  respective  principal 
organs  that  they  represent.  In  doing  so,  they  need  to 
establish  increased  coherence  and  complementarities 
among those organs in a mutually reinforcing manner 
and be respectful of each other’s mandates.
NAM also welcomes, as a step forward, the informal 
meetings  held  between  the  President  of  the  Council 
for July and States Members of the United Nations on 
the  preparation  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council, and calls for more regular interactions, each 
year,  between  the  President  of  the  Security  Council 
for  July,  when  the  report  is  prepared,  and  the  wider 
membership  of  the  United  Nations,  which  can  help 
enhance the quality of such reports.
For  years,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  has  noted 
that the annual reports of the Security Council continue 
to be a procedural overview of the meetings, activities 
and decisions of the Council. We call on the Security 
Council to submit a more explanatory, comprehensive 
and analytical annual report to the General Assembly, 
assessing  the  work  of  the  Council,  including  cases 
when  the  Council  has  failed  to  act,  and  the  views 
expressed by its members during the consideration of 
the agenda items under its consideration. Furthermore, 
NAM  calls  on  the  Security  Council  to  elaborate  on 
the  circumstances  under  which  it  adopted  particular 
outcomes,  ranging  from  resolutions  to  presidential 
statements, press statements and others.
Finally, we call on the Security Council to submit 
special reports, when necessary, for the consideration 
of  the  General  Assembly,  pursuant  to  Article  15, 
paragraph 1, and Article 24, paragraph 3, of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  The  Security  Council  should 
ensure that its monthly assessments are comprehensive 
and  analytical  and  issued  in  a  timely  fashion.  The 
General Assembly may consider proposing parameters 
for the elaboration of such assessments.
Mr.  Jürgenson  (Estonia):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak on behalf of the Accountability, Coherence and 
Transparency  (ACT)  group,  a  cross-regional  group 
comprised  of  the  following  25  small  and  mid-sized 
countries  working  together  to  improve  the  working 
methods of the Security Council: Austria, Chile, Costa 
Rica,  Denmark,  Estonia,  Finland,  Gabon,  Ghana, 
Hungary, Ireland, Jordan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, 
Maldives, New Zealand, Norway, Papua New Guinea, 
Peru,  Portugal,  Rwanda,  Saudi  Arabia,  Slovenia, 
Sweden,  Switzerland  and  Uruguay.  Currently,  three 
ACT members are serving in the Council and in 2016 
the number will remain the same.
Let  me  start  by  thanking  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  for  holding  this  debate  and  for  his 
dedication to the issue, most notably seen in his strong 
call  for  a  more  analytical  report  voiced  in  the  open 
debate on working methods (see S/PV. 7539) held in the 
Council this October.
4/27 
15-36233
12/11/2015 
A/70/PV.51
The ACT group expresses its appreciation to New 
Zealand for its efforts and commitment in preparing the 
introduction  to  the  report  (A/70/2),  and  to  the  United 
Kingdom  for  its  presentation.  The  report  summarizes 
past  activities  conducted  by  the  Council  and  signals 
its priority areas. In that regard, it is a clear and well-
organized  document.  However,  while  recognizing  the 
challenge  of  keeping  the  document  inclusive  and  yet 
concise,  we  would  have  welcomed  —  as  previously 
emphasized  —  a  stronger  focus  on  analysis.  Adding 
additional insights into the Council’s decision-making 
processes  would  help  the  General  Assembly  to  better 
capture  the  content  of  the  report  and  the  work  of  the 
Security Council.
ACT commends the efforts of the Security Council 
to enhance its transparency and effectiveness. In recent 
years, the Council has interacted with a great number 
of  outside  actors  —  civil  society,  non-governmental 
organizations, academics and others — through various 
types of innovative meetings, including Arria-Formula 
meetings  and  other  informal  interactive  dialogues. 
The overall number of open debates, public briefings, 
wrap-up sessions and reports to the General Assembly 
has  also  increased.  More  flexible  use  of  the  range  of 
Council  products,  particularly  press  and  presidential 
statements,  has  been  made  in  reaction  to  unfolding 
events.
The ACT group fully appreciates the introductory 
part  of  the  report,  the  five-page  section  on  thematic 
issues and the fact that part II of the report includes an 
overview  of  43  items  and  situations.  However,  in  our 
view, there is still room for improvement by making it 
more analytical. In doing so, both the Security Council 
and  the  General  Assembly  could  make  better  use  of 
the report, while fully respecting the tasks, mandates 
and competencies of the two bodies. To help with the 
aforementioned, last year at the Assembly meeting on 
the  same  issue,  the  ACT  group  offered  six  concrete 
suggestions on how the annual report could be drafted, 
the  nature  of  its  content  and  how  to  improve  the 
discussion  on  it  (see  A/69/PV.58).  As  those  proposals 
still  retain  their  relevance,  please  allow  me  to  point 
them out again.
First, how relevant is the number of open debates 
held,  if  the  exchange  of  views  and  specific  proposals 
are  not  included  in  the  report?  When  assessing  the 
impact  of  consultations,  the  Council  should  explicitly 
include  in  the  report  a  representative  selection  of 
the  views  expressed  by  non-members.  In  doing  so, 
preference  should  be  given  to  group  statements  that 
feature concrete suggestions.
Secondly, the adoption of the annual report by the 
Council could be an occasion for a public debate with 
Council members. Issues addressed in that open debate 
could include the decisions made by the Council and the 
positions of the various member States; challenges that 
the Council faces in the execution of its mandate and 
how it proposes to solve them; references to discussions 
on which the Council did not find agreement; and the 
reasons that led the Security Council not to take firm 
positions  on  important  issues  related  to  peace  and 
international  security.  ACT  recommends  that  both 
a  retrospective  and  a  prospective  focus  be  taken  into 
account  during  such  an  analytical  discussion  of  the 
Council’s work.
Thirdly,  annual  assessments  of  the  work  of  the 
Council’s  subsidiary  bodies  and  monthly  assessments 
by  Council  presidencies  that  provide  more  analytical 
material  than  the  current  annual  report  should  be 
compiled  and  form  an  integral  part  of  the  annual 
report.  These  assessments  could  play  an  important 
role in guiding the priorities of the Council month by 
month. Any disclaimers related to the positions of other 
Council members could be included.
Fourthly,  thematic  issues  are  not  stand-alone 
topics;  on  the  contrary,  they  are  an  integral  part  of 
the  consideration  of  country  situations.  Both  general 
underlying  themes  and  cross-cutting  issues  that  are 
relevant  through  the  work  of  the  Security  Council 
should therefore, despite not being formally part of the 
agenda, be linked through relevant cross-references to 
country situation analyses. In this vein, we especially 
encourage  more  efforts  by  the  Council  to  honour  and 
engage  other  relevant  United  Nations  stakeholders  in 
all its thematic engagements.
Fifthly, the annual report could also be a useful tool 
for accountability in the area of the working methods of 
the Council. Elements of evaluation in relation to key 
areas  of  the  Council’s  work  should  be  introduced.  A 
section of the report, therefore, should be dedicated to 
this topic and include a record of the progress made in 
the implementation of the presidential notes and other 
working  methods  as  recommended  by  other  Member 
States and ACT.
Lastly, the adoption of the annual report should be 
an excellent occasion not only to review and evaluate 
the  past,  but  also  for  all  parties  to  take  in  lessons 
15-36233
5/27
A/70/PV.51 
12/11/2015
learned  and  to  discuss  options  and  strategies  for  the 
future.  Any  discussion  of  the  annual  report  should 
not  be  mainly  a  retrospective  formal  exercise,  but  a 
prospective,  reform-minded  one.  ACT  suggests  as  a 
possible format a series of workshops clustered around 
country situations or larger thematic issues, or even in a 
less formal format than the Arria Formula setting.
Allow me also to say a few words on other matters 
related to the working methods of the Council. We would 
like  to  highlight  the  increase  in  the  number  of  open 
debates organized by each month’s Council President. 
At  the  same  time,  we  recall  that  they  should  also 
translate  into  meaningful  discussions.  We  encourage 
more spontaneous, lively and productive consultations 
within the Council.
We are gratified that 106 Member States, including 
nine members of the Security Council, have supported 
the code of conduct regarding Security Council action 
against  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  and  war 
crimes. We encourage all States that have not yet done 
so,  especially  those  seeking  election  to  the  Security 
Council,  to  sign  up.  Now  is  the  time  to  implement 
the commitments contained in the code of conduct by 
taking  more  consistent  action  to  prevent  or  end  the 
commission of atrocity crimes.
to  see  enhanced  cooperation  between 
As we are in the important year before the selection 
of  the  next  Secretary-General,  the  ACT  group  would 
hope 
the 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council on this issue by their sending the joint letter as 
requested in resolution 69/321 at the earliest.
In  conclusion,  let  me  stress  that  the  ACT  group 
welcomes all proposals aiming to improve the content 
and submission of the annual report, and in this regard 
we are looking forward to studying, among others, the 
Russian-Lithuanian proposal.
Finally,  we  encourage  future  Security  Council 
presidencies to strengthen efforts to enhance the report 
and make it a more useful tool for us all.
Mr.  Boukadoum  (Algeria):  I  should  like  at  the 
outset sincerely to thank British Ambassador Matthew 
Rycroft  for  his  excellent  presentation  of  the  report  of 
the Security Council to the General Assembly (A/70/2).
While renewing our commitment to and support for 
the statement made by the Permanent Representative of 
Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, I should 
like to add the following comments.
The  Assembly’s  consideration  of  the  Security 
Council’s  report  should  not  be  a  mere  formality,  in 
that it should provide the General Assembly, the chief 
deliberative body of the United Nations, with a valuable 
opportunity  for  an  in-depth  analysis  of  the  Council’s 
activities, as well as identify the measures that should 
be  taken  to  make  the  necessary  improvements  in  its 
working methods. It is also an opportune occasion for 
Member  States  to  express  their  views  on  the  way  in 
which the Council conducts its duties.
We believe that this interaction is also in the interest 
of the Security Council, which would benefit from it, 
by considering and using the ideas and constructive and 
innovative proposals that I am convinced will emerge 
from  this  debate.  Moreover,  as  is  its  prerogative,  and 
according to the Charter, the Assembly could even take 
any  action  it  considers  appropriate  at  the  end  of  this 
debate.
With  regard  to  the  format  of  the  report,  we  are 
pleased  that  it  now  contains  an  analytical  section 
on  the  work  of  the  Council  aimed  at  responding  to 
the  comments  and  criticisms  made  in  that  regard  by 
Member States throughout the years in this forum. The 
document before us indeed contains elements that are of 
interest to all Members of the United Nations. However, 
we have to underline the fact that the report is still far 
from  being  the  substantive  document  that  Members 
of  the  United  Nations  need  in  order  to  allow  them  to 
assess the work of the Council. We hope to see in future 
the  analytical  part  of  the  report  provide  indicators  of 
the  results  of  the  Council’s  work  as  well  as  a  section 
devoted  to  proposals  and  recommendations  aimed  at 
improving its work.
With  regard  to  the  functioning  of  the  Council,  a 
significant  number  of  Council  members  made  efforts 
during the period under consideration to improve both 
exchanges  with  all  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
and the transparency of that body’s working methods. 
In  order  to  limit  the  secrecy  in  the  Council’s  work, 
a  concerted  effort  needs  to  be  made  to  improve  the 
dissemination  of  information  on  the  activities  of  the 
Council  and  to  hold  more  open  briefings  in  order  to 
allow non-members of the Council to benefit from the 
information  provided  by  the  Secretariat  on  various 
situations and conflicts and to express their opinion on 
the decisions taken.
Algeria continues to believe that it would be wise, 
on a case-by-case basis, for the consultations preceding 
those meetings to be open to the parties interested or 
6/27 
15-36233
12/11/2015 
A/70/PV.51
involved  in  the  question  under  consideration  in  order 
to  obtain  their  views.  That  would  allow  the  Security 
Council  to  have  a  better  understanding  of  the  subject 
under  consideration  and  to  take  its  decisions  with 
better background information at hand. We appreciate 
the  monthly  holding  of  wrap-up  meetings  open  to 
non-members of the Council. We believe those meetings 
provide  opportunities  to  express  views  on  issues  of 
interest  in  an  analytical,  systematic,  open  and  candid 
way.
With  regard  to  the  substance  of  the  report,  it 
illustrates that during the period under consideration, the 
Council has not only reacted to threats to international 
and  regional  peace  and  security,  but  has  sometimes 
also  taken  direct  action  to  address  the  large  number 
of  problems  affecting  the  world.  It  has  demonstrated 
determination  and  follow-up  in  dealing  with  certain 
issues.  We  believe  that  Security  Council  missions  to 
areas in conflict are extremely important because they 
tackle  the  heart  of  the  problem.  Those  missions  have 
a  positive  impact  on  local  actors.  We  encourage  this 
type  of  initiative  and  actions  and  call  for  them  to  be 
formalized and expanded to other conflict areas.
On  a  less  positive  note,  we  regret  the  implicit 
endorsement  by  some  Council  members  of  Member 
States  that  do  not  respect  Council  resolutions,  which 
certainly compromises the Council’s authority, and in 
that  regard,  we  regret  the  fact  that  certain  important 
Security Council resolutions have not been followed by 
action. That state of affairs is often representative of a 
defiance of and lack of concern for the credibility of the 
Council. It is that very credibility of the Council that is 
in question today. That credibility will be further eroded 
if the Council does not succeed in reversing that trend 
and  in  demonstrating  to  the  entire  world  its  capacity 
to shoulder its responsibilities in the management and 
settlement of the disputes that have been on its agenda 
for a very long time and to no avail.
In conclusion, I should highlight the importance of 
strengthening and consolidating the cooperation among 
the United Nations, the African Union and the African 
Union  Peace  and  the  Security  Council,  because  we 
must spare no effort to equip the African Union with 
the capacity and the peacebuilding architecture needed 
to  ensure  the  success  of  its  missions  that  have  been 
deployed on the basis of a Council mandate.
Mr. Mukerji (India): Let me, at the outset, thank 
the  President  for  organizing  this  meeting  to  consider 
the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/70/2), 
covering  the  period  from  1  August  2014  to  31  July 
2015.  I  would  like  to  express  my  appreciation  for  the 
efforts  made  by  Ambassador  Gerard  van  Bohemen, 
Permanent  Representative  of  New  Zealand,  and  his 
team  in  preparing  the  annual  report  of  the  Council.  I 
would also like to thank Ambassador Matthew Rycroft, 
Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom, for 
presenting the report to the General Assembly.
Last  year,  my  delegation  proposed  that  the  issues 
raised  by  Member  States  in  this  annual  meeting  to 
consider  the  Security  Council’s  report  should  be 
followed  up,  so  that  the  Council  can  respond  to  this 
debate.  Several  other  delegations  also  made  the  same 
proposal.  While  paragraph  216  of  the  report  before 
us  today  indicates  that  the  President  of  the  Council 
provided Council members last year with a summary of 
the Assembly’s consideration of the annual report, that 
seems to have been the end of the matter, as far as the 
Council is concerned.
The attitude of the Council in that regard is highly 
objectionable. We expect the Council to take into account 
the  views  expressed  by  us  in  this  annual  exercise.  If 
the  Council  feels  that  our  views  are  not  relevant,  we 
expect  to  be  informed  of  the  reasons  why  that  is  the 
case.  Otherwise,  we  are  discussing  the  annual  report 
of  the  Council  without  any  reason,  and  the  valuable 
time and resources of the General Assembly are being 
wasted in the process. We note, in paragraph 1 of the 
report,  that  the  Council  held  267  formal  meetings,  of 
which 248 were public. It also adopted 65 resolutions 
and 27 presidential statements.
The question that we pose today is in how many of 
the open debates in which Member States participated 
did the Council adopt its outcome documents — whether 
resolutions  or  presidential  statements  —  after  the 
participation  of  non-Council  member  States?  The 
answer  is  quite  clear:  none.  All  the  resolutions  and 
presidential statements were adopted by the Council at 
its open debates before Member States, not represented 
in  the  Council,  took  the  floor,  making  a  travesty  of 
such open participation. Of late, that attitude, directed 
at  other  Member  States,  has  become  even  more 
worrying. At a recent open debate of the Council, we 
were  shocked  to  note  that  plenipotentiary  accredited 
envoys of Member States were given the opportunity to 
speak only after non-plenipotentiary representatives of 
non-Member State delegations.
15-36233
7/27
A/70/PV.51 
12/11/2015
The Council’s report gives impressive statistics, but 
those statistics only cloak the Council’s imperviousness 
to adapting its working procedures to the contemporary 
world, which would require it to meet the standards of 
transparency  and  accountability  and  be  responsive  to 
the  views  of  other  Member  States.  That  is  the  nub  of 
the problem.
The  Council’s 
report,  being  opaque 
and 
unaccountable, is therefore a halfway house. We read 
its  264  pages  without  really  understanding  why  the 
primary  organ  of  the  United  Nations  responsible  for 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security  has 
allowed  the  world  to  slide  further  down  the  road  to 
violence and conflict. Why have more than 60 million 
people become the victims of crises? Why is the world 
seeing so many refugees from crisis situations? We in 
the  General  Assembly  do  not  receive  any  answers  to 
such  questions,  nor,  for  that  matter,  does  the  general 
public.  The  consequence  is  a  severe  erosion  of  the 
credibility of the Council itself.
I  would  like  to  focus  on  three  major  areas  of  the 
Council’s  work,  as  contained  in  its  annual  report,  to 
offer  some  comments.  I  do  so  to  highlight  the  fact 
that the ineffectiveness of the Council imposes severe 
costs  on  all  of  us,  especially  developing  countries. 
Judging  from  its  report,  we  must  conclude  that  the 
Council  seems  unable  to  comprehend  the  nature  of 
the  socioeconomic  challenges  faced  by  developing 
countries resulting from the breakdown in international 
peace and security, especially now when we are on the 
cusp of implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1),  adopted  unanimously, 
with the goal of eradicating poverty within a generation. 
That is due to the fact that, for the past 70 years, only 
one developing country is represented as a permanent 
member  in  the  Council,  while  our  total  membership 
in  the  Assembly  is  more  than  134.  We  call  for  the 
urgent expansion of the Council, in order to add more 
developing-country members in both of its categories, 
so  as  to  offset  that  problem.  The  three  areas  of  the 
Council to which I refer are its implementation of United 
Nations  peacekeeping,  the  response  of  the  Council  to 
terrorism and the inability of the Council to discharge 
its primary task, enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations, namely, to resolve disputes peacefully.
With  regard  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping,  the 
annual report states that much of the Council’s activity 
focused  on  Africa.  Yet  none  of  the  peacekeeping 
missions mandated by the Council to operate in Africa 
have been successfully completed. Going by its routine 
rollover  of  the  mandates  of  peacekeeping  operations, 
the  Council  is  using  peacekeeping  as  an  open-ended 
mechanism, not as a means to bring about a sustainable 
peace, as recommended most recently in the report of 
the High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations 
(A/70/95).  That  brings  into  focus  the  fact  that  the 
Council  has  not  been  able  to  use  peacekeeping  as  a 
tool to secure peace. For peacekeeping in general, the 
Council continues to flout Article 44 of the Charter by 
not inviting troop-contributing Member States that are 
not represented in the Council to participate in decisions 
on how mandates for peacekeeping are drawn up.
We call on the Council to immediately implement 
Article 44 of the Charter, in its letter and spirit, so as to 
make United Nations peacekeeping more effective and 
cost-efficient. As far as crises in Africa are concerned, 
they  are  most  probably  due  to  the  fact  that  none  of 
the  permanent  members  of  the  Council,  who  exercise 
the  right  of  being  the  drafters  of  those  mandates,  or, 
as  they  call  themselves,  penholders,  is  from  Africa. 
That  is  a  major  shortcoming,  as  seen  from  the  report 
of  the  Council,  and  one  that  can  be  rectified  only  by 
expanding  the  membership  of  the  Council,  in  both 
categories. Mere increases in short- or, for that matter, 
long-term rotational seats are not the answer, in the real 
world, to the glaring shortcomings of penholdership.
Regarding  the  second  issue,  the  response  of  the 
Council to the threats posed by terrorism, especially in 
Africa and Asia, has been less than robust. In paragraph 
49 of the report, the Council notes the growing terrorist 
threat that affects the neighbouring countries of Libya 
and beyond. In paragraph 51, the Council calls for the 
terrorist  threat  to  be  addressed.  The  same  pattern  is 
evident  in  reading  paragraphs  121  and  127,  regarding 
Syria  and  Iraq.  In  addition  to  the  landmark  Council 
resolutions  adopted  earlier  against  terrorism,  such 
as  resolution  1267  (1999),  resolution  1373  (2001)  and 
resolution  1540  (2004),  we  note  the  reference  in  this 
report to more recent resolutions, such as resolution 2195 
(2014),  resolution  2170  (2014),  resolution  2178  (2014) 
and resolution 2199 (2015). Despite all its exhortations 
and resolutions, the report is silent on what the Council 
has actually done in terms of acting to meet that threat. 
The increasing number and brutality of terrorist acts, 
meanwhile, vividly illustrates the ineffectiveness of the 
Council in countering terrorism.
Last  year,  my  delegation  pointed  to  the  need  for 
the  Council  to  investigate,  prosecute  and  penalize 
8/27 
15-36233
12/11/2015 
A/70/PV.51
terrorist acts, especially those directed against United 
Nations  personnel  and  peacekeepers.  Regrettably,  the 
Council has not acted on that issue, and paragraphs 134 
to 140 of the report make for dismal reading regarding 
the  ineffectiveness  of  the  Council  in  that  regard.  The 
report does not reveal anything about the way in which 
the Council’s sanctions regimes against terrorism have 
functioned, which, by itself, is a significant omission, 
hidden from our scrutiny in the Assembly.
The third area where the Council’s report glosses 
over  the  Council’s  ineffectiveness  is  in  the  pursuit  of 
peaceful negotiations to resolve disputes. For example, 
efforts to use political negotiations to resolve crises are 
now occurring outside the Security Council, not in it. 
The  Council  has  watched  such  negotiations  from  the 
sidelines,  whether  they  concern  the  crises  in  Syria, 
South Sudan or Ukraine. We note that the negotiations 
have  been  conducted  by  Member  States,  not  all  of 
which are represented in the Council. That is a telling 
comment on the fact that, today, the Council is not the 
primary driver of resolving disputes through political 
processes,  which  is  its  core  competence  under  the 
Charter.  Such  a  trend  again  illustrates  why,  10  years 
ago, our leaders, in their wisdom, unanimously agreed 
that the Council needed urgent reforms to make it more 
representative in order for it to be more effective.
Against that broad backdrop, we note with concern 
the information in the report that the Council, rather than 
focusing on its primary responsibility for maintaining 
international  peace  and  security,  is  instead  venturing 
into  areas  that  are  in  the  domain  of  the  General 
Assembly. Paragraphs 98 to 100 of the report illustrate 
that trend clearly, especially when we recall that it was 
the General Assembly that successfully galvanized the 
international  response  to  the  Ebola  crisis  through  the 
Ebola  Trust  Fund,  to  which  my  country  was  a  major 
financial contributor.
In  conclusion,  the  report  illustrates  vividly  that, 
today,  the  Council’s  effectiveness  in  maintaining 
international peace and security, the reason for which it 
was set up by the Charter, has been severely undermined. 
The  solution,  from  our  vantage  points  here  in  the 
General Assembly, is to reform the Council as soon as 
possible, as was mandated by all our leaders at the 2005 
World  Summit.  We  are  hopeful  that  our  discussion 
today,  Mr.  President,  will  strengthen  your  resolve  to 
implement  that  mandate  during  your  presidency,  so 
that  we  will  be  able  to  correct  that  major  anomaly  in 
international  relations  by  the  time  we  conclude  the 
commemoration  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  our 
United Nations in September 2016.
Mr.  Mendoza-García  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Costa  Rica  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  Estonia  on  behalf 
of  the  Accountability,  Consistency  and  Transparency 
(ACT) group.
the  United  Kingdom 
Costa  Rica  would  like  to  thank  the  Permanent 
Representative  of 
for  his 
presentation  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council for the period from 1 August 2014 to 31 July 
2015  (A/70/2).  The  information  it  gives  us  about  the 
Council’s  huge  and  growing  workload  is  in  many 
ways  complete  and  useful.  My  delegation  would  also 
like to thank New Zealand for its efforts in preparing 
the  report’s  introduction.  In  that  regard,  we  want  to 
highlight the significant work that has been done by the 
Security  Council’s  current  non-permanent  members, 
who  are  responsible  for  much  of  the  energy  directed 
at  ensuring  the  Council’s  health,  transparency  and 
accountability.
The presentation of the Security Council’s annual 
report to the General Assembly is an important occasion 
that not only encourages accountability on the part of 
the  Council  but  also  gives  members  of  the  Assembly 
an opportunity to address some of the most urgent and 
compelling issues of the year in question. It is a year that 
has seen a number of deteriorating situations, especially 
in  Africa  and  the  Middle  East,  and  in  which  the 
Security Council has launched a number of prescriptive 
initiatives  on  the  protection  of  civilians  —  including 
journalists,  women,  girls  and  children  —  in  armed 
conflict.  It  is  a  year  in  which  the  Council  has  also 
displayed dynamism in its response to new challenges, 
as it showed in its renewed determination to work more 
closely  with  the  United  Nations  system  as  a  whole  in 
addressing terrorism and sexual violence, to cite only 
two of its most significant efforts.
Costa  Rica  appreciates  the  Council’s  efforts  each 
year to improve its annual report and urges it to continue 
to improve its quality and comprehensiveness. In that 
regard, I would like to make some specific, respectful 
recommendations that we hope can be put into practice 
in  order  to  improve  the  report’s  value,  particularly 
to  members  of  the  Assembly  in  general.  We  urge 
the  Security  Council  to  make  its  annual  report  more 
analytical and thoughtful, which would be a welcome 
change, because at present it is a statistical compilation 
15-36233
9/27
A/70/PV.51 
12/11/2015
of events and a bland summary of meetings and final 
documents.
We would be grateful if the Council could provide 
us  with  an  analysis  of  its  decision-making  processes, 
especially  where  viewpoints  diverge  and  converge. 
We  would  also  like  to  see  candid  assessments  of  the 
obstacles to the prevention and resolution of conflicts, 
including  some  discussion  of  the  circumstances  in 
which the Council decided to adopt particular types of 
texts,  whether  presidential  statements  or  resolutions. 
The hows, the whys and why nots are key for this type 
of report.
The  adoption  of  the  annual  report  should  also  be 
an opportunity for the Council to take note of lessons 
learned,  with  the  aim  of  discussing  options  and 
strategies  for  improving  its  performance  in  future.  In 
that regard, we would like to emphasize how important 
it is to have higher levels of substantive participation by 
the entire membership in the early stages of the drafting 
process. That can be done, for example, through open 
interactive  discussions  or  other  informal  formats,  in 
which views can be exchanged between the first draft 
of the report and the Council’s final approval of it.
As the report says, the Security Council has held 
a  significant  number  of  thematic  debates,  in  which 
participation has been open to the Organization’s entire 
membership.  However,  interactivity  in  those  debates 
is  virtually  non-existent,  and  any  resulting  document 
is  generally  agreed  on  by  the  Council  without  taking 
Member States’ views into account. We must find a way 
to ensure that the discussions in which the membership 
participates  have  more  impact  on  the  Organization’s 
policies.
The Security Council also plays a very important 
role  in  the  fight  against  impunity.  Costa  Rica  urges 
the  Council  to  strengthen  its  cooperation  with  the 
International  Criminal  Court,  especially  where 
atrocities  are  concerned,  so  as  to  empower  the  Court 
and enable it to fulfil its mandate, as well as to support 
the Court in its investigations and prosecutions and thus 
ensure  accountability  for  perpetrators.  In  that  regard, 
we would like to reiterate our proposal for establishing a 
uniform, predictable and transparent protocol whereby 
the Council can refer cases to the Court, while at the 
same  time  ensuring  that  the  Council  does  not  insert 
jurisdictional exceptions that could violate the principle 
of  equality  before  the  law  and  jeopardize  the  Court’s 
credibility.  Such  measures  would  help  to  strengthen 
the Court’s role, while safeguarding its independence. 
The  Court’s  concerns  about  financing,  security  and 
access all deserve the Council’s sustained attention if 
the  promise  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  is  to 
be fulfilled.
Because  human  lives  are  at  stake,  Costa  Rica 
supports the initiative of France and Mexico aimed at 
limiting  the  use  of  the  veto  when  mass  atrocities  are 
involved, a proposal that dates back to our membership 
in  the  “Little  Five”.  In  particular,  we  support  the 
complementary efforts led by Liechtenstein in the ACT 
group through the establishment of a code of conduct. 
Costa Rica is pleased that 106 States have joined that 
initiative,  and  we  encourage  more  Member  States  to 
accede  to  it,  especially  those  seeking  a  seat  on  the 
Security  Council.  We  would  also  like  to  reiterate  our 
call  on  the  Council’s  permanent  members  to  keep 
an  official  record  of  their  use  or  threat  of  use  of  the 
veto,  along  with  their  justification  for  its  use,  and  to 
regularly  circulate  such  information  to  all  Members 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  suggest  that  States  take  a 
State’s adherence to the code of conduct into account 
when deciding which States to support in elections to 
the Security Council and the Human Rights Council.
Costa Rica is proud to have been one of the first States 
to advocate for reforms in selecting and appointing the 
Secretary-General,  who  represents  the  entire  United 
Nations system. It is crucial to ensure that the General 
Assembly plays a proper part in the selection process. 
We cannot stress enough how urgently we need to be 
able to rely on a democratic and transparent process, if 
we are to ensure we can rely on our next leader — one 
who Costa Rica hopes will be a woman — a leader able 
to inspire the complete confidence of the United Nations 
family. Resolution 69/321 calls on the Presidents of the 
Security Council and the General Assembly to send a 
joint  letter  to  all  Member  States  to  begin  the  process 
of  requesting  nominations.  The  letter  should  contain 
a  description  of  the  entire  process  and  should  invite 
States  to  submit  nominations,  particularly  of  women, 
in a timely manner.
Costa  Rica  would  particularly  urge  the  United 
Kingdom,  as  the  current  President  of  the  Security 
Council  for  November,  to  launch  a  collaborative 
process  together  with  you,  Sir,  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly, to begin implementing that historic 
resolution.  Costa  Rica  views  that  process,  along  with 
consideration  of  the  Council’s  report,  as  an  excellent 
opportunity for strengthening the relationship between 
10/27 
15-36233
12/11/2015 
A/70/PV.51
the  two  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations.  All 
we need now is political will and the initiative of our 
leaders.
Mr.  Sobral  Duarte  (Brazil):  Let  me  begin  by 
thanking  the  Permanent  Representative  of  the  United 
Kingdom and President of the Security Council for the 
month of November, Ambassador Matthew Rycroft, for 
presenting  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/70/2).  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  New  Zealand,  Ambassador  Gerard 
van  Bohemen,  for  preparing  the  introduction  to  the 
report  in  his  capacity  as  President  of  the  Council  in 
July.
The report under discussion today is an important 
element in the overall effort to make the Council more 
accountable  to  the  broader  membership.  Delegations 
deserve  to  be  better  informed  about  the  Council’s 
deliberations. Brazil has been a long-standing supporter 
of measures to promote transparency and accountability 
for  the  benefit  of  the  178  Member  States  that  are  not 
part of the Council’s daily routine.
There are three reports currently under consideration 
by the broader membership that provide us with relevant 
inputs for reflection on the strengths and shortcomings 
of our collective security mechanism. The emphasis on 
the primacy of politics and on prevention proposed by 
the High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations, 
the  Advisory  Group  of  Experts  on  the  Review  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Architecture  and  the  authors  of  the 
Global Study on the implementation of resolution 1325 
(2000) is a welcome development. Bearing in mind that, 
as the Council’s annual report highlights, the Security 
Council is facing increasingly complex threats with an 
alarming rise in the number of civilian victims, we must 
put conflict prevention at the forefront of our strategies.
Among  the  various  tools  at  the  disposal  of  the 
United  Nations  for  promoting  conflict  prevention, 
the  role  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  deserves 
to  be  highlighted.  By  fostering  joint  international 
strategies  on  reconstruction,  institution-building  and 
policy  development  in  vulnerable  environments,  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  has  a  key  role  to  play  in 
averting  the  recurrence  of  conflict  and  in  promoting 
a culture of prevention of conflicts. That proved to be 
particularly true during last year’s Ebola crisis in West 
Africa, when the Commission issued an early warning 
to  the  Security  Council  on  the  destabilizing  regional 
implications  of  the  epidemic.  It  also  contributed  to 
raising awareness within the international community, 
thereby helping to prevent the public-health emergency 
from reversing the important peacebuilding gains that 
had been achieved in that part of the world.
One of the highlights of the Council’s work during 
the past year was the high-level review of the women 
and peace and security agenda, which culminated in a 
successful open debate held last month (see S/PV.7533), 
when resolution 2242 (2015) was adopted. A number of 
countries,  including  my  own,  presented  new,  specific 
measures  to  protect  and  empower  women  and  girls 
affected  by  conflict.  The  debate  was  inspired  by  the 
Global Study on the implementation of resolution 1325 
(2000) and its vital recommendations, not least of which 
is the imperative of avoiding the securitization and the 
militarization  of  the  women  and  peace  and  security 
agenda.
The situation in the Middle East further deteriorated 
during the period covered by the Council’s report, amid 
increasing  tensions  and  threats  to  international  peace 
and security. In Syria, the conflict has entered its fifth 
year. The spiral of violence and destruction continues 
to  worsen,  resulting  in  the  shocking  figures  of  more 
than 250,000 people killed, almost 8 million internally 
displaced persons and more than 4 million refugees. The 
indiscriminate attacks against the civilian population, 
including  the  use  of  so-called  barrel  bombs,  continue 
unabated. There are also persistent reports of chemical 
materials, such as chlorine, being used as a weapon.
Against  that  tragic  background,  the  Council’s 
recurring inability to act decisively to achieve a peaceful 
solution to the Syrian crisis is distressing. Despite the 
general recognition that there is no military solution to 
the conflict, we continue to see a disconnect between the 
priority that should be given to political initiatives and 
the level of hostilities and military engagement on the 
ground. Despite the adoption of important resolutions 
to address the humanitarian challenges and the use of 
chemical weapons in Syria, the Council has not truly 
dealt with crucial aspects of the conflict. It must act to 
prevent further militarization, stop the flow of weapons 
to all belligerent parties and move the political process 
forward.
In  the  same  vein,  we  are  once  again  witnessing 
a  severe  upsurge  in  violence  in  Palestine  and  Israel. 
While 
Israelis  and 
Palestinians  remains  stalled,  living  conditions  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories  have  deteriorated  and 
the  peace  process  between 
15-36233
11/27
A/70/PV.51 
12/11/2015
illegal actions and provocations have increased. Many 
delegations,  including  that  of  Brazil,  have  repeatedly 
called  on  the  Security  Council  to  fully  assume  its 
responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations 
and  to  actively  support  and  steer  the  peace  process 
towards a two-State solution. Not only has the Security 
Council  fallen  short  of  engaging  in  the  promotion  of 
a  durable  and  peaceful  solution  to  the  conflict;  it 
has  also  repeatedly  missed  opportunities  to  meet  its 
responsibilities.
Last  December,  the  Council  failed  to  act  when 
a  draft  resolution  on  the  issue  was  brought  to  a  vote. 
Just  a  few  weeks  ago,  a  draft  presidential  statement 
requesting  the  Secretary-General  to  provide  options 
for  a  temporary  international  observer  presence  in 
Jerusalem was presented, but so far no progress has been 
achieved. We were glad to hear that a non-permanent 
member has proposed a new draft resolution with the 
goal  of  relaunching  substantive  peace  talks.  We  hope 
that this time the Security Council will not stand still 
on  that  issue,  which  is  critical  to  the  stability  of  the 
entire Middle East.
The  situation  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
Congo  has  remained  a  concern  in  2015.  Efforts  to 
counter  certain  armed  groups  have  been  hindered  by 
the partial suspension of military cooperation between 
the  Congolese  armed  forces  and  the  United  Nations 
Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  (MONUSCO).  The  ongoing 
security-sector  reform  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the Congo, which is key to the sustainable withdrawal 
of MONUSCO, still faces considerable challenges and 
requires international attention.
Brazil stresses the need to develop and implement 
comprehensive and sustainable strategies to overcome 
the  root  causes  of  conflict  in  the  eastern  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  including  the  promotion  of 
socioeconomic development and the extension of State 
authority.  South-South  cooperation  also  has  a  role  to 
play in the process. In that regard, Brazil has worked 
together  with  the  United  Nations  and  civil-society 
organizations to provide assistance to victims of sexual 
violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
With  regard  to  the  situation  in  Haiti,  Brazil 
welcomes the ongoing progress achieved in recent years, 
which  has  allowed  the  United  Nations  Stabilization 
Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) to downsize. However, 
there  are  still  reasons  for  concern  with  respect  to 
security,  including  in  the  context  of  the  ongoing 
electoral process. In this sense, it is important that any 
assessment mission be deployed after the formation of 
a new Government and that the reconfiguration process 
be guided solely by conditions on the ground, as well 
as by the need to preserve the progress made in the past 
11 years.
Brazil also underlines the importance of the tools 
mandated to MINUSTAH to develop quick-impact and 
community violence reduction projects. The experience 
of Haiti has clearly shown that such activities directly 
benefit  the  local  population  and  assist  in  building 
confidence  in  the  peace  process  and  the  Mission 
throughout  its  life  cycle.  Any  future  presence  of 
the  Organization  in  Haiti  should  take  that  success 
story  into  account  and  ensure  the  continuity  of  such 
activities, so as to contribute to the sustainability of the 
reconstruction efforts.
Mr. González Franco (Paraguay), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
As  a  concluding  remark,  let  me  emphasize  how 
encouraged Brazil was by the significant participation 
in  the  General  Assembly  debate  on  Security  Council 
reform  held  a  few  days  ago  (see  A/70/PV.43).  As  we 
reiterated  on  that  occasion,  the  only  way  to  ensure  a 
more  efficient,  transparent  and  accountable  Security 
Council  is  through  comprehensive  reform  that  adapts 
the Council’s anachronistic structure to contemporary 
international  realities.  Brazil  is  confident  that,  under 
the leadership of the President of the General Assembly, 
we will be able to make substantive progress during the 
seventieth session.
Mr.  Mwinyi  (Tanzania):  My  delegation  would 
like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
for  convening  this  important  meeting  to  consider  the 
annual report of the Security Council (A/70/2), in line 
with  paragraph  3  of  Article  24  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.
As underscored in our statement made during the 
debate on the revitalization of the work of the General 
Assembly  (see  A/70/PV.45),  we  deem  the  continued 
interaction between the Assembly and other principal 
organs  of  the  United  Nations  to  be  absolutely  critical 
to  advancing  their  respective  Charter  mandates.  It  is 
in  that  regard  that  we  wish  to  thank  the  President  of 
the  Security  Council  for  his  excellent  presentation  of 
the annual report, and New Zealand for its preparation. 
We also wish to fully endorse and align ourselves with 
12/27 
15-36233
12/11/2015 
A/70/PV.51
the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement.
Tanzania recognizes the central role being played 
by  the  Security  Council  in  discharging  its  primary 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  We  are  aware  that  it  does  so  not 
on  its  own  behalf,  but  on  behalf  of  each  and  every 
State  Member  of  the  Organization.  For  that  reason, 
we are genuinely proud of the progress achieved over 
the  course  of  the  70  years  of  its  existence.  Similarly, 
we  are  gravely  concerned  about  the  failures  we  have 
met, the consequences of which must serve as lessons 
if we are to preserve the credibility and legitimacy of 
the  Organization.  In  other  words,  we  must  embrace 
and advance the comprehensive reform of the Security 
Council  with  a  view  to  making  it  more  effective, 
inclusive and reflective of contemporary global realities. 
We believe that Member States are at a decisive moment 
with  the  setting  in  motion  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  towards  text-based  negotiations.  Let  us 
forge  ahead  with  greater  zeal  and  determination  to 
achieve that important objective as soon as possible.
In  the  meantime,  we  welcome  measures  being 
taken to enhance the transparency and effectiveness of 
the Security Council. These include the open debates, 
which  Tanzania  has  been  attending  in  order  to  share 
its  perspectives.  We  hope  that  in  future  the  Council 
will arrange the debates in a way that would allow its 
members to take into account the views expressed by 
delegations  before  adopting  its  outcomes.  Initiatives 
proposed  by  France,  Mexico  and  the  Accountability, 
Coherence and Transparency group, aimed at limiting 
the use of veto in cases of atrocity crimes, are a step 
in  the  right  direction.  Whereas  the  code  of  conduct 
is  justifiable,  albeit  not  in  a  way  that  undermines  its 
validity  in  line  with  the  Charter,  the  bottom  line  is 
for the members of the Council, especially those with 
veto-wielding  power,  to  act  in  accordance  and  only 
in accordance with the purposes and principles of the 
United Nations.
We  call  on  the  Council  to  include,  in  its  future 
reports  to  the  Assembly,  an  assessment  of  its  actions 
and inactions, including due to the use of the veto, as 
well as the attendant repercussions thereof. It has been 
emphasized  repeatedly,  including  by  my  delegation, 
that  the  Council’s  annual  report  should  be  analytical 
and incisive. As a matter of fact, there have been many 
recommendations  from  the  Chamber  to  the  Council 
through  its  President,  including  those  incorporated  in 
the letter of the President of the General Assembly at 
its  sixty-ninth  session,  dated  4  December  2014.  My 
delegation is unaware of any feedback from the Council 
in  that  regard.  We  therefore  request  a  follow-up  to 
the  letter  and  the  proposals  contained  therein  by  the 
President of the Assembly at the current session.
We  welcome  the  Council’s  increased  interaction 
with external actors, including representatives of civil 
society, academia and others to discuss a wide range of 
topics. We note with regret, however, that in the recent 
past  some  of  those  meetings  have  covered  divisive 
topics  that  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  Council’s 
mandate.  We  wish  to  recall  that,  as  a  representative 
body with a mandate distinct from that of the General 
Assembly, the Council must refrain from entertaining 
such topics, which only serve to derail it from its core 
responsibility.
We  note  that  the  nature  and  scope  of  situations 
being addressed by the Security Council have evolved. 
Conflicts  have  become  complex,  fragmented  and 
intractable,  and  increasingly  involve  non-State  armed 
groups  that  employ  unconventional  and  gruesome 
methods  of  warfare.  United  Nations  peace  operations 
are also operating in perilous environments with little 
or no peace to keep. It is imperative, therefore, that the 
Council adapt accordingly. It must use all the tools at 
its disposal in discharging its Charter mandates. It must 
give ample prominence to political solutions and invest 
in conflict prevention and post-conflict peacebuilding. 
It  must  also  forge  stronger  ties  with  regional  and 
subregional  organizations  so  as  to  support  them,  as 
appropriate,  in  their  endeavours  towards  conflict 
prevention  and  resolution.  Finally,  it  must  strengthen 
cooperation  with  other  principal  organs  whose  role 
in  addressing  some  of  the  root  causes  of  conflicts, 
including poverty and chronic inequality, is vital.
In conclusion, we wish to underscore the importance 
of upholding the purposes and principles of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations;  of  fostering  friendly  relations 
and cooperation among States, in accordance with the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations;  and  of  strengthening 
cooperation among the principal organs of the United 
Nations  and  between  the  organs  and  regional  and 
subregional  organizations,  while  respecting 
their 
respective mandates.
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  Liechtenstein 
is  a  member  of  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and 
15-36233
13/27
A/70/PV.51 
12/11/2015
Transparency group and aligns itself with the statement 
delivered by the representative of Estonia. 
Our  comments  today  are  being  made  against  the 
background of the launch, three weeks ago, of the code 
of  conduct  regarding  Security  Council  action  against 
genocide,  war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity. 
In  signing  onto  the  code,  106  States  have  pledged  to 
support  timely  Security  Council  action  to  prevent  or 
end atrocity crimes and, specifically, not to vote against 
credible  draft  resolutions  to  that  end.  We  hope  that 
such commitment, which was also made by nine of the 
current members of the Security Council, will lead to 
an improvement in the Security Council’s track record 
in  that  respect.  We  have  reviewed  the  annual  report 
(A/70/2) with that in mind and would like to make some 
comments on the Council’s action in that regard.
in 
The  Council’s  sustained  engagement 
the 
situation  in  Burundi  during  the  reporting  period  was 
commendable  and  necessary.  Indeed,  the  Council’s 
visit  to  the  country  in  March  seems  to  have  been 
well timed. Nevertheless, the Council was not able to 
address  the  violence  that  accompanied  the  elections 
and  the  chaotic  circumstances  surrounding  them. 
Meeting  regularly  and  issuing  a  press  statement  did 
not  prove  to  be  an  adequate  response  to  a  crisis  that 
led  144,000  Burundians  to  flee  their  country  during 
the  reporting  period  alone.  The  inability  to  engage 
in  effective  preventive  diplomacy  has  resulted  in  the 
present  situation,  on  which  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights, the Special Adviser 
for  the  Prevention  of  Genocide  and  the  Prosecutor  of 
the International Criminal Court (ICC), among others, 
have commented and expressed their deepest concern. 
The Council is challenged to act with resolve to address 
an  explosive  situation  that  could  serve  as  a  test  of 
the  practical  application  of  the  code  of  conduct.  We 
therefore  welcome  the  fact  that  the  Security  Council 
has scheduled action on a draft resolution later today. 
The Council engagement in Darfur is long-standing 
and  yet,  despite  the  presence  of  one  of  the  largest 
peacekeeping  operations  in  the  history  of  the  United 
Nations,  targeted  sanctions  and  the  referral  of  the 
situation to the International Criminal Court, the conflict 
continues,  as  do  serious  violations  of  international 
human  rights  law  and  international  humanitarian 
law.  During  the  reporting  period,  the  Council  was 
confronted by reports of mass rape by members of the 
Sudanese armed forces in Thabit, Northern Darfur. No 
proper  investigation  was  commissioned,  the  African 
Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur was 
repeatedly denied access and the Sudanese Government 
even  demanded  its  eventual  withdrawal.  The  Council 
has  not  applied  sanctions  against  any  of  the  persons 
indicted  by  the  ICC  or  made  any  new  listings  in  the 
light  of  new  atrocity  crimes.  At  the  same  time,  the 
Government has continued its policy of non-cooperation 
with the ICC, to which the Council referred the situation 
10 years ago, without any response from the Council. 
Over time, all this has fostered a climate of impunity 
in  which  the  commission  of  atrocity  crimes  is  only  a 
logical  consequence.  We  share  the  frustration  of  the 
Prosecutor of the ICC, who has decided — despite the 
continued  commission  of  crimes  that  demand  urgent 
attention  —  to  direct  her  limited  resources  elsewhere 
in the face of Council inaction.
In  Syria,  too,  the  Council  has  not  been  able  to 
adequately  respond  to  what  has  become  the  defining 
conflict  of  the  decade.  It  adopted  two  resolutions 
during  the  reporting  period.  Resolution  2191  (2014), 
on the humanitarian situation, demanded, among other 
things, that
“all  parties  to  the  ...  conflict  comply  with  their 
obligations  under  international  humanitarian  law 
and  international  human  rights  law”  (Security 
Council resolution 2191 (2014), para. 1).
The  resolution  continues  to  be  manifestly  breached 
daily, and yet the Council is unable to respond. 
Resolution  2209  (2015)  addresses  the  issue  of 
chemical weapons, which, to be sure, constitutes one of 
the more morbid aspects of the conflict in Syria. And yet 
the Council’s one-sided focus on the chemical-weapons 
track is, at best, missing the larger point in a conflict 
that  has  killed  more  than  250,000  people.  At  worst, 
it  gives  the  impression  that  mass  killings  of  civilians 
perpetrated  by  other  means, 
torture, 
starvation  and  barrel  bombs,  deserve  less  attention 
than the use of weaponry prohibited under international 
law. On the humanitarian track, the Council has taken 
commendable  steps,  but  implementation  continues 
to  be  an  enormous  challenge,  of  which  the  ongoing 
large-scale  displacement  of  the  civilian  population  is 
but  the  most  obvious  manifestation.  Conspicuous  by 
their  absence  from  the  report  are  references  to  any 
attempt  to  provide  justice  to  the  victims,  establish 
a  credible  accountability  mechanism  and  provide 
effective protection to the civilian population.
including 
We  acknowledge  the  efforts  of  some  members  of 
the Council to move the Council to do the right thing in 
14/27 
15-36233
12/11/2015 
A/70/PV.51
each of these situations. There is, however, no way to 
avoid the conclusion that the Council has been largely 
unable  to  take  adequate  action  to  prevent  or  end  the 
commission  of  atrocity  crimes  in  spite  of  the  varied 
and impactful toolkit at its disposal. While it has used 
that  toolkit  most  creatively  in  some  situations  —  for 
example,  when  chemical  weapons  were  being  used 
in  Syria,  or  to  develop  world-wide  anti-terrorism 
sanctions — it has been unable to do what is required 
in  many  situations  involving  atrocity  crimes.  We 
are  concerned  in  particular  because  the  Council’s 
performance  is  key  to  the  overall  perception  of  the 
United Nations; an inability or unwillingness to act in 
the face of atrocity crimes is especially harmful for the 
Organization as a whole.
We  expect  the  Council  to  be  responsive  to  the 
demands of the membership as a whole and to conduct 
its  work  in  a  culture  of  political  accountability.  By 
supporting the code of conduct, 106 States have made it 
clear that they expect zero tolerance for atrocity crimes. 
The  Council  members  that  have  signed  the  code  of 
conduct have a special responsibility in that respect, but 
we hope that the Council as a whole will be responsive 
to the call for a change in culture. We look forward to 
reading about the start of such a change in next year’s 
report.
Mrs.  Del  Sol  Dominguez  (Cuba)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish):  Cuba  supports  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Our delegation thanks the President for convening 
today’s  meeting  to  consider  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security Council to the General Assembly, contained in 
document A/70/2. Unfortunately, the Assembly meets 
every  year  to  discuss  similar  reports  of  the  Security 
Council,  which  have  not  contained  and  still  do  not 
contain any real critical analysis of the work done by 
the  Council.  Once  again,  the  report  merely  describes 
the action taken by that organ.
Articles  15  and  24  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  state  that  the  Security  Council  shall  submit 
annual and special reports on its work. Unfortunately, 
special reports are still not being submitted. The annual 
report  this  year  once  again  takes  only  a  descriptive 
approach, listing the issues considered by the Council 
without  any  assessment  thereof.  Such  an  assessment 
would have enabled Member States to themselves carry 
out  a  real  assessment  of  the  causes  and  implications 
of  the  actions  undertaken  by  the  Council  in  each 
case,  and  also  of  its  non-action  in  cases  where  there 
was consideration of an issue representing a threat to 
international peace and security.
This  exercise  fails  to  provide  true  accountability 
of the Security Council to the General Assembly. How 
long will we continue with this purely formal exercise? 
Why are our repeated calls for change not heeded? Who 
benefits from continuing this formal exercise, with no 
real accountability to the most important organ of the 
United Nations?
its  concern  at 
Cuba  reiterates 
the  growing 
tendency  in  the  Security  Council  to  consider  issues 
and assume functions that are not within its purview, 
thereby  usurping  the  role  entrusted  by  the  Charter  to 
other  organs,  particularly  the  General  Assembly.  We 
stress the need to strike the right balance between the 
principal organs of the United Nations, in accordance 
with the Charter.
We once again urge Council members to review the 
Council’s agenda and adapt it to its mandated functions. 
The Council must strictly abide by the provisions of the 
Charter  and  all  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly, 
which  is  the  principal  deliberative,  policymaking  and 
representative organ of the United Nations.
One  of  the  main  problems  and  challenges  still 
facing the United Nations on its seventieth anniversary 
is  its  inability  to  carry  out  the  reform  the  Security 
Council  needs  to  make  it  into  a  truly  transparent, 
representative, democratic and effective body. Until the 
Security Council is thoroughly reformed, any reform of 
the United Nations itself will remain incomplete.
Cuba calls on all Member States to work urgently 
to  ensure  that  the  closed-door  consultations  in  the 
Security  Council  are  the  exception  to  the  rule;  that 
there is an increase in both categories of membership, 
permanent and non-permanent, in order to remedy the 
underrepresentation  of  developing  countries  in  the 
Council, using no selective or discriminatory criteria; 
and that an end is put to the obsolete and anti-democratic 
veto.
Urgent changes are required in the working methods 
of  the  Council  so  as  to  enable  genuine  participation 
by  all  Member  States  in  its  work  and  decisions.  This 
includes  formalizing  its  rules  of  procedure,  which, 
70 years on, remain provisional, so as to help to increase 
transparency and accountability.
15-36233
15/27
A/70/PV.51 
12/11/2015
Truly analytical annual reports on the work of the 
Security Council, and special reports, as provided for in 
the Charter, are essential if the Assembly is to be able 
to  discharge  its  mandate  of  maintaining  international 
peace and security. We believe that a more transparent 
Council  would  be  a  more  legitimate  Council.  A  more 
inclusive  and  accessible  Security  Council  that  truly 
takes into account the views of States Members of the 
Organization would be a much more effective Council.
Mr.  Mahmoud  (Egypt):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  thank  the  Permanent  Representative  of  the 
United Kingdom for presenting the annual report of the 
Security  Council  (A/70/2).  I  would  also  like  to  thank 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  New  Zealand  for 
having prepared the report’s introduction.
Egypt aligns itself with the statement made by the 
representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement and would also like to 
make the following additional remarks.
First, the Charter of the United Nations entrusts the 
Security  Council  with  the  primary  responsibility  for 
the maintenance of international peace and security, on 
behalf of the entire membership. Egypt therefore firmly 
believes that the work of the Security Council should 
be  based  on  transparency,  inclusivity  and  openness. 
We call for increased interactivity between the Council 
and the broader membership throughout the reporting 
cycle.
Secondly,  the  report  appears  to  be  more  of  a 
statistical compilation of the outcomes of the Council’s 
work. Future reports need to be analytical rather than 
descriptive and provide a deeper understanding of the 
stumbling  blocks  that  faced  the  Council  on  specific 
issues.
Thirdly,  we  note  the  growing  tendency  of  the 
Council to hold thematic debates on issues that do not 
constitute imminent threats to international peace and 
security. These debates often encroach on the territory 
of other organs of the United Nations and overlap with 
their  work.  In  this  regard,  we  underscore  the  role  of 
the General Assembly in norm-setting, legislation and 
administrative  and  financial  issues,  and  we  urge  the 
Council  to  maintain  the  balance  between  the  various 
organs of the United Nations as reflected in the United 
Nations Charter.
We also urge the Security Council to hold regular 
consultations with relevant States that are non-members 
of  the  Council.  Such  consultations  should  include  the 
active  participation  of  non-member  States  relevant  to 
the issue at hand. In this regard, it is crucial to actively 
engage  regional  stakeholders  in  Council  deliberations 
on  a  crisis  before  considering  taking  action  on  it. 
Moreover, troop-contributing countries should also be 
engaged in the Council’s discussions of a peacekeeping 
mandate prior to its adoption.
Finally, Egypt welcomes the continuous debate on 
the Council’s working methods and will continue, during 
its  coming  membership  in  the  Security  Council  for 
2016-2017, to contribute to strengthening transparency, 
inclusivity,  openness  and  the  democratization  of  the 
Security  Council’s  work,  as  it  is  indispensable  to  the 
credibility of the Council in carrying out its mandate 
and ensuring its effectiveness and ability to address the 
growing challenges.
Mr. Alday González (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
Mexico  would  like  to  thank  President  Lykketoft  for 
convening  this  meeting.  We  also  thank  New  Zealand 
for  having  prepared  the  annual  report  (A/70/2)  this 
year and the United Kingdom for introducing it to the 
Assembly.
The  Charter  states  that  the  Council  should  carry 
out  its  work  on  behalf  of  the  membership.  Given  the 
absence of any other opportunities, this debate should 
in principle be the best possible opportunity to further 
strengthen  dialogue  and  communication  on  the  work 
of  the  Council  and  the  perception  of  the  Council  by 
Member States.
However,  neither  the  format  nor  the  content  of 
the  report,  nor  the  way  in  which  this  debate  is  being 
held,  is  truly  conducive  to  a  truly  substantive  or 
interactive  dialogue.  We  acknowledge  the  limitations 
of  this  exercise  and  the  difficulties  faced  by  Council 
members in reaching agreement on the content of, and 
adopting,  the  report,  but  we  believe  that  there  could 
be an improvement if changes in working methods are 
incorporated.
The  proposals  that  have  been  made  for  years  by 
the  members  of  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and 
Transparency  group  and  its  predecessor,  the  “Little 
Five” group, are, in the view of my delegation, viable 
options  for  making  the  report’s  content  more  useful 
to  the  membership  and  strengthening  the  dialogue 
between  the  Council  and  the  other  Members  of  our 
Organization.
16/27 
15-36233
12/11/2015 
A/70/PV.51
In  its  current  format,  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council remains devoid of any analysis or high-quality 
information.  We  believe,  for  example,  that  were  it  to 
discuss,  in  a  factual  manner,  occasions  on  which  the 
Council  was  not  able  to  reach  agreement,  this  would 
provide  the  membership  with  a  more  accurate  and 
appropriate  record  of  its  deliberations.  Giving  equal 
weight to the views expressed by all members in those 
cases would, without prejudice, improve both the quality 
of the report and the transparency and accountability, 
the lack of which impacts the work and decisions of the 
Security Council, to the detriment of its credibility. The 
convening of an increasing number of briefings, open 
debates and interactive dialogues would be an important 
step  towards  realizing  transparency  and  effectiveness 
in  the  Council’s  work.  We  therefore  propose  that  the 
Security  Council  hold,  at  least  once  a  year,  an  open 
debate  accessible  to  all  Member  States  to  discuss  the 
content  of  its  annual  report  prior  to  its  adoption,  so 
that the final product submitted to the Assembly would 
incorporate the views of non-members of the Council.
On the question of the powers of the Council, my 
delegation  reiterates  that  the  Council  should  act  in 
accordance  with  its  mandate  under  the  Charter,  and 
avoid the temptation to expand into areas that are not 
within  its  purview  but  fall  clearly  within  that  of  the 
General Assembly or the Economic and Social Council. 
On  the  substance  of  the  Council’s  work,  we  welcome 
its overall sustained attention to a growing number of 
conflicts  around  the  world,  ranging  from  the  Central 
African Republic to the Middle East and from the Great 
Lakes region of Africa to Haiti, among others. We are 
concerned,  however,  that  the  dysfunctionality  of  the 
Council, when it cannot or will not act, exacerbates its 
chronic inability to fulfil its mandate, thereby making 
its  failure  to  act  an  additional  threat  to  peace  and 
international security.
The  work  of  the  Security  Council  must  not  only 
be  balanced,  objective  and  impartial,  it  must  also  be 
perceived  as  such  by  Member  States  and  our  citizens 
around  the  world.  Along  with  other  Member  States, 
Mexico  is  discussing  and  will  discuss  in  the  coming 
months a number of practical recommendations to build 
on efforts and proposals that are already on the table, 
to  be  presented  in  due  course  for  the  membership’s 
consideration.
In that vein, we have been encouraged by the broad 
tacit support that the membership has enthusiastically 
given to the French-Mexican initiative to limit the use 
of the veto and to the complementary proposal that has 
been launched with equal success by the Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  group.  Both  initiatives 
send a clear and strong message to the Security Council 
and constitute irrefutable evidence that most Member 
States want the Council to change its working methods.
Mr.  Jinga  (Romania):  Romania  welcomes  the 
adoption  on  20  October  of  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council (A/70/2), covering its activities for the period 
from 1 August 2014 to 31 July 2015. We congratulate 
New Zealand on preparing a comprehensive document, 
based  on  a  revised  approach,  in  order  to  provide  an 
accessible summary of the Council’s activities. We also 
appreciate the introduction of the report by the United 
Kingdom presidency of the Council.
Ambassador  Gerard  van  Bohemen  has  said  that 
he  “would  have  preferred  a  document  that  contained 
more  self-reflection  on  the  Council’s  performance” 
(S/PV.7538,  p.  2).  In  fact,  I  think  that  the  Permanent 
Representative of New Zealand did a great job and, in 
that respect, I suggest that we take a 70-year look back 
at the first such report, of 3 October 1946:
“The  first  twenty-three  meetings  of  the  Council 
were  held  in  London  and  the  remainder  in  New 
York  ...  Up  to  15  July  1946,  the  Council  had 
held  fifty  meetings  ...  In  fulfilling  its  primary 
responsibility for the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security,  the  Council  has  dealt  with  ... 
[five] questions.” (A/93, p. viii)
One may argue that at that time, we were dealing with 
other  realities,  different  from  those  of  today.  Indeed, 
according to the latest report,
“During the period under review, the Council held 
267 formal meetings, of which 248 were public. The 
Council adopted 65 resolutions and 27 presidential 
statements and issued 148 statements to the press” 
(A/70/2, p. 10).
Moreover,  we  just  heard  that  there  are  currently  66 
matters  relative  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security  that  are  being  dealt  with  by  the 
Council.
Romania is of the view that not only has the quantity 
of  the  Council’s  workload  significantly  increased;  so 
has its complexity. In that respect, I would like to refer 
to three particular aspects. First, let me recall that on 
16  October,  we  marked  the  10-year  anniversary  of 
Security Council resolution 1631 (2005), on cooperation 
15-36233
17/27
A/70/PV.51 
12/11/2015
between the United Nations and regional organizations 
in  maintaining  international  peace  and  security.  The 
theme  represented  a  priority  of  Romania’s  2004-2005 
mandate in its role as a non-permanent member of the 
Council.  Through  that  resolution,  my  country  made 
a  conceptual  and  practical  contribution  to  the  United 
Nations  efforts  in  maintaining  international  peace 
and  security,  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations.
Developments at the international level, including 
crisis  situations  that  emerged  in  the  aftermath  of  its 
adoption,  confirmed  the  viability  of  our  initiative. 
Regional  organizations  have  become 
increasingly 
profiled  as  privileged  partners  of  the  United  Nations 
in  maintaining  international  peace  and  security.  To 
give  but  two  examples,  I  will  cite  the  African  Union 
and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in 
Europe.  As  a  member  of  the  European  Union  (EU), 
Romania  also  welcomes  the  enhanced  cooperation 
between the EU and the United Nations, and reaffirms 
its willingness to further strengthen that process.
Secondly,  we  are  pleased  to  note  the  increased 
presence  of  the  members  of  the  Security  Council  on 
the  ground,  as  was  the  case  with  the  three  missions 
it undertook to Europe and Africa in August 2014, to 
Haiti  in  January  2015  and  again  to  Africa  in  March 
2015.  We  hope  that  this  approach  will  be  maintained 
because we consider it critical for Council members to 
interact directly with people affected by the conflicts 
that the Security Council takes action on.
Lastly, I would like to underscore the efficiency of 
United Nations activities by referring to the decisions 
to  reduce  the  overall  force  levels  of  the  Missions  in 
Haiti and Liberia, as a result of their positive outcomes. 
At  the  same  time,  I  think  it  is  worth  underlining  the 
capacity of the Security Council to adapt and respond 
appropriately  to  new  types  of  crises,  as  was  the  case 
with the first United Nations emergency health mission 
in  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone  and  Guinea  and  with  its 
leadership role in combating Ebola.
The  report  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  period 
from  1  August  2014  to  31  July  2015  is  more  than  a 
factual document. It is a mirror of its activities. We all 
need  a  Security  Council  that  is  involved,  committed, 
transparent and efficient in its work.
Allow  me  to  conclude  by  extending  our  deep 
appreciation 
former 
non-permanent members of the Council to Argentina, 
their  contributions  as 
for 
Australia,  Luxembourg, 
the  Republic  of  Korea 
and  Rwanda,  and  to  the  outgoing  members  Chad, 
Chile,  Jordan,  Lithuania  and  Nigeria.  I  also  take  this 
opportunity  to  wish  a  most  successful  mandate  to 
incoming  non-permanent  members  Egypt,  Japan, 
Senegal, Ukraine and Uruguay.
Mr. Mamabolo (South Africa): South Africa joins 
others  in  thanking  the  President  for  scheduling  this 
debate  on  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/70/2)  and  for  linking  our  discussion  to  Article  12 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  also  thank 
the Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom, 
Ambassador Matthew Rycroft, President of the Security 
Council for the month of November, for introducing the 
report, as well as the Permanent Representative of New 
Zealand,  Ambassador  Gerard  van  Bohemen,  and  his 
team for preparing the report.
While the report before us indeed provides a useful 
factual  account  of  the  work  of  the  Security  Council, 
South  Africa  is  once  again  disappointed  that  it  does 
not  provide  an  analytical  evaluation  of  the  Council’s 
work, in particular with respect to its effectiveness in 
discharging  its  mandate,  namely,  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. The Council’s annual 
reports  remain  too  clinical,  merely  conveying  events 
in a chronological, descriptive manner, with almost no 
analysis. We believe that a more analytical report would 
be  beneficial  to  the  broader  membership,  because  it 
would likely provide better insight into the challenges 
that the Council faces as it deliberates on the various 
situations  on  its  agenda,  as  reflected  in  its  ability  to 
resolve certain conflicts.
Furthermore, the report makes clear that very little 
has  changed  for  the  elected  members  of  the  Security 
Council, who constantly face numerous challenges that 
result  from  the  high-handed  tactics  of  the  permanent 
members of the Council. South Africa has also long been 
critical of the practice of having important resolutions 
drafted by a small group that often consists of countries 
that  do  not  serve  on  the  Security  Council.  Such  texts 
are then presented to members of the Council as faits 
accomplis. While we support broad consultation by the 
Council, its decisions should be open to debate among 
all members of the Council.
As  we  stated  in  the  recent  debate  of  the  Security 
Council on its working methods (see S/PV.7539), South 
Africa  is  pleased  with  the  Council’s  commitment 
to  enhanced  strategic  cooperation  with  the  African 
18/27 
15-36233
12/11/2015 
A/70/PV.51
Union Peace and Security Council. That is particularly 
relevant  in  the  context  of  the  Secretary-General’s 
most  recent  report  on  the  future  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations,  in  which  he  identifies  the 
need  for  institutional  cooperation  and  global-regional 
partnerships  “so  as  to  enable  consultation,  common 
early  warning  and  conflict  analysis,  and  coordinated 
responses  to  the  specific  dynamics  of  each  region” 
(A/70/357,  para.  46).  More  specifically  with  regard 
to  the  African  Union,  South  Africa  supports  the 
Secretary-General’s call to “institutionalize consultative 
processes  and,  where  appropriate,  joint  mechanisms” 
(ibid., para. 52), as well as the need to elaborate “early 
communication and procedures for crisis consultation” 
(ibid., para. 29). In that regard, we call on the Security 
Council  to  fully  implement  resolution  2033  (2012), 
which decides, among other things,
“to elaborate further ways of strengthening relations 
between  the  two  Councils,  including  through 
achieving  more  effective  annual  consultative 
meetings, the holding of timely consultations, and 
collaborative  field  missions  of  the  two  Councils, 
as appropriate” (Security Council resolution 2033 
(2012), para. 17)
and
“to  formulate  cohesive  positions  and  strategies 
on  a  case  by-case  basis  in  dealing  with  conflict 
situations in Africa” (ibid.).
Unfortunately,  the  annual  report  before  us  does 
not  reflect  the  commitment  to  regular  engagement 
and consultation, aside from the ninth annual meeting 
between  the  Security  Council  and  the  Peace  and 
Security  Council,  which  took  place  in  March.  We 
believe that this points to the selectivity with which the 
Security Council coordinates its positions with those of 
the African Union. South Africa reiterates its concern 
about the tendency in certain cases where the Security 
Council  selectively  picks  elements  of  decisions  of 
regional  organizations 
the  national 
interests of some Council members. It is important that 
the principle of subsidiarity be respected if we are to 
establish  better  synergies  for  enhancing  cooperation, 
especially on the African continent. We therefore call 
for  greater  consistency  from  the  Council  in  engaging 
with regional bodies.
that  advance 
With  regard  to  the  Security  Council’s  working 
methods  in  general,  we  join  other  delegations  in 
acknowledging  the  Security  Council’s  attempt  to  be 
more transparent in its functioning and the small steps 
taken in that regard, such as regularizing the briefings 
to  Member  States  at  the  beginning  and  end  of  each 
presidency, and the increased number of public briefings 
on the issues discussed. However, more needs to be done 
to include Member States in the Council’s deliberations, 
in particular those States directly affected by a specific 
conflict, We continue to believe that broader and more 
inclusive consultations by the Council with the larger 
membership  of  the  United  Nations  can  only  serve  to 
enhance the Council’s efficacy and credibility.
We  do  not  need  to  read  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security  Council  to  conclude  that  the  Council  has 
again  lapsed  into  dysfunction  and  has  not  been  able 
to  address  the  most  pressing  issues  on  its  agenda, 
including  the  question  of  Palestine  and  the  situation 
in Syria. In both instances the General Assembly has 
acted  where  the  Council  was  unwilling  or  unable  to 
respond, including with respect to the resumption of the 
General  Assembly’s  tenth  emergency  special  session, 
held  pursuant  to  the  Uniting  for  Peace  resolution  377 
A (V), to discuss the grave developments in Gaza, as 
well as the adoption of resolution 64/10, endorsing the 
recommendations  of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding 
Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  in  2009  and  2010,  and 
the appointment of a Special Envoy to Syria against the 
backdrop of a total deadlock in the Security Council in 
2012.
It is our firm opinion that measures to enhance the 
effectiveness of the General Assembly regarding its role 
in the maintenance of international peace and security 
should be discussed and adopted. South Africa does not 
wish to see the General Assembly usurp the role of the 
Security Council, but we advocate the need to improve 
on  the  balance  of  competence  between  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council, as members of the 
African  Union  called  for  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus. 
That is especially critical at the present session, when we 
will begin discussion on the selection and appointment 
of the next Secretary-General.
In  conclusion,  we  reiterate  our  view  that  the 
representative  nature  of  the  Assembly  makes  it  the 
ideal body to respond to and address issues of concern 
that affect the entire world. We are therefore committed 
to  seeing  closer  and  better  cooperation  between  the 
Security Council and the General Assembly.
Mr.  Fesko  (Ukraine):  First  of  all,  we  would  like 
to express our appreciation to Ambassador Gerard van 
15-36233
19/27
A/70/PV.51 
12/11/2015
Bohemen and his team for preparing the introductory 
part  of  the  Security  Council  report  (A/70/2),  and 
to  Ambassador  Matthew  Rycroft  for  providing  an 
excellent presentation.
As a newly elected member of the Security Council 
for  the  period  2016-2017,  Ukraine  takes  particular 
interest  in  the  report.  We  welcome  the  attempt  at 
making  the  document  more  concise.  We  believe  that 
shortening  the  introductory  part  is  a  step  in  the  right 
direction  in  the  preparation  of  a  document  for  which 
the  General  Assembly  has  long  been  calling,  namely, 
a more analytical and substantive paper and not a mere 
recollection  of  the  Council’s  proceedings  over  the 
reporting period.
It  is  our  strong  belief  that  the  membership  of 
the  United  Nations  must  be  informed  not  only  about 
what  happened  and  when,  but  also  why  and  how  a 
given  action  was  taken  or  not  taken.  That  aspect  is 
still missing from the traditional annual reports of the 
Council. Having answers to such questions would not 
only  enhance  Member  States’  understanding  of  the 
Council’s work, but could also prove beneficial to the 
Council by encouraging it to find workable solutions to 
specific situations.
Analysis  of  the  decision-making  processes  in 
cases  where  the  Council  either  failed  to  act  or  where 
its  actions  did  not  bring  about  the  expected  result  in 
the  form  of  a  peaceful  resolution  of  a  given  conflict 
could  help  identify  areas  for  improvement  in  the 
Council’s  methods  of  work.  That  would  facilitate  the 
search for more effective ways of addressing issues that 
are brought before the Council and dealing with them 
in a decisive and results-oriented manner, as opposed 
to following the dangerous trend of avoiding an issue 
up  to  the  point  of  ignoring  it.  In  other  words,  in  our 
opinion,  the  annual  report  should  provide  the  United 
Nations  membership  with  a  clear  answer  as  to  how 
successful  the  Security  Council  has  been  in  carrying 
out  its  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security.
A  candid  assessment  reveals  that  behind  many 
pages  of  fine  print  lurks  the  conclusion  that  the 
Security  Council  has  yet  to  rise  to  the  challenges  of 
today.  As  the  external  aggression  against  Ukraine 
clearly demonstrates, when the purposes and principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  are  violated, 
when  international  law  is  subject  to  frivolous  and 
selective  interpretations  and  when  perpetrators  avoid 
accountability,  the  world  needs  a  strong  Security 
Council that is capable of taking resolute action.
We  need  the  Council  both  to  protect  the  Charter 
and to follow it. Apparently, the second part of Article 
27, paragraph 3, of the Charter, which obligates a party 
to a dispute to abstain from voting, proved too high a 
mountain  to  climb  both  for  a  party  in  question  —  as 
was the case with the two Russian vetoes on the draft 
resolutions  concerning  Ukraine  —  and  the  Council 
itself, which shied away from proper consideration of 
the application of the relevant provision. In that regard, 
we  welcome  and  fully  support  the  code  of  conduct 
regarding  Security  Council  action  against  genocide, 
crimes against humanity or war crimes put forward by 
the Accountability, Coherence and Transparency group, 
as well as the French-Mexican initiative on limiting the 
use  of  the  veto. Those are  very timely initiatives  that 
may facilitate the transformation of the Council into a 
body in which the veto right is used responsibly in the 
interests of the world, and not abused to promote and 
protect the narrow interests of a single party.
Ukraine 
that 
recognizes 
the  aforementioned 
shortcomings are not the result of a lack of trying on the 
part of the overwhelming majority of Council members, 
including  permanent  ones,  but  rather  the  outcome  of 
all-too-clear institutional deficiencies in the Council’s 
composition and established working methods. In that 
regard, we encourage the Council to explore new ways 
and  approaches  to  improve  its  overall  performance. 
As  an  incoming  member,  Ukraine  stands  ready  to 
contribute to pertinent discussions on the subject, both 
within the Council and with the wider United Nations 
membership.
Mr.  Rakhmetullin  (Kazakhstan):  The  delegation 
of  Kazakhstan  welcomes  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council (A/70/2) and commends its outstanding work 
as one of the key entities responsible for regional and 
global peace and security. We acknowledge the sincere 
commitment and stewardship of each of its Presidents, 
and  we  commend  all  the  members  of  the  Council  for 
their  tireless,  year-long  efforts,  as  manifested  in  this 
comprehensive report on all aspects of the agenda.
The  Security  Council’s  outcomes  would  be  more 
effective  if  the  report  were  analytical  and  evaluative 
and  if  it  pointed  out  how  the  various  decisions  taken 
could have greater impact and how their accompanying 
processes  could  be  better  utilized.  It  would  also  be 
advantageous to have interim reports from the Council 
20/27 
15-36233
12/11/2015 
A/70/PV.51
in  addition  to  the  yearly  one,  to  allow  for  ongoing 
feedback.  The  report  describes  the  remarkable  work 
of  various  peacekeeping  operations.  It  would  also 
be  helpful  if  their  mandates  were  comprehensive, 
realistic  and  achievable  and  if  there  were  an  analysis 
of  how  they  could  be  more  effectively  implemented. 
The  Council  could  also  have  benefited  from  greater 
dialogue with troop- and police-contributing countries 
on their expanded mandates, mutual expectations and 
the  security  of  their  personnel.  The  Security  Council 
could  gain  much  from  lessons  learned  and  could 
reflect  greater  coordination  among  the  Department 
of  Peacekeeping  Operations  (DPKO),  international 
organizations,  regional  structures  and  neighbouring 
countries surrounding areas of conflict. Together with 
DPKO  and  regional  organizations,  the  Council  could 
mirror more analytically such operations in the field.
Kazakhstan  appreciates  the  fact  that  the  Council 
held  open  debates  on  a  vast  range  of  topics  —  on 
such customary topics as women, children and armed 
conflict,  inclusive  development,  the  protection  of 
journalists,  Ebola  and,  for  the  first  time,  the  security 
of  small  island  developing  States.  While  the  debates 
served  as  a  platform  for  airing  approaches,  there  is  a 
stark  need  to  further  plan  a  comprehensive  strategy 
rather  than  simply  to  archive  statements.  It  would 
help the Council to work in close cooperation with the 
Secretariat,  the  United  Nations  system,  the  General 
Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and 
other  international  regional  organizations.  The  work 
of  the  subsidiary  bodies  of  the  Council  could  also  be 
strengthened  through  close  cooperation  among  them 
and  United  Nations  specialized  agencies  and  other 
bodies  so  that  the  Council  becomes  more  robust  in 
addressing the various complex issues that continue to 
evolve. A greater number of field missions by Security 
Council  members  would  also  help  its  members  to 
appreciate the realities on the ground.
We  would  also  like  to  see  a  better  reflection 
of  the  Security  Council’s  response  to  the  various 
recommendations of the intergovernmental negotiations 
with respect to both individual and groups of countries, 
so  that  there  is  greater  momentum  towards  dynamic 
change.  Security  Council  reform  is  part  of  a  global 
process  of  reform  of  the  United  Nations  aimed  at 
enhancing its response capabilities in tackling complex 
and multidimensional issues. That must not lie outside 
the  responsibility  and  accountability  of  the  Council 
itself.
Since  2016  is  the  year  for  the  selection  of  the 
eighth  Secretary-General,  we  look  forward  to  seeing 
the  report  of  the  Security  Council’s  deliberations  on 
the  selection  process  in  close  coordination  with  the 
General Assembly.
Kazakhstan,  for  its  part,  will  continue  to  play  its 
role and to wholeheartedly support efforts to make the 
Council  more  responsive,  accessible  and  effective  in 
fulfilling its mandate as set forth in the Charter of the 
United Nations.
Mr.  Laassel  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  Allow 
me, at the outset, to thank the Permanent Representative 
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland  for  introducing  the  report  (A/70/2)  of  the 
Security  Council  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventieth  session.  I  also  thank  and  congratulate 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  New  Zealand  for 
coordinating  the  preparation  and  the  adoption  of  the 
introduction to the report.
My delegation aligns itself with the statement made 
by the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on 
behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
The  Security  Council  continues  to  face  new 
challenges  in  the  implementation  of  the  mandate 
conferred  on  it  by  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
A  number  of  those  matters  weigh  heavily  on  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  In 
fact, beyond the conflicts and regional disputes already 
on  its  agenda,  the  Council  is  increasingly  forced  to 
address  the  issues  associated  with  the  fight  against 
terrorism and extremism and combating transnational 
organized crime.
Faced with those global phenomena, it is important 
to note that the Security Council has reacted with one 
voice and in a concerted manner by taking appropriate 
measures  to  counter  those  threats,  in  particular  the 
threat of international terrorism. Moreover, the Security 
Council has maintained and strengthened the practice 
of holding public debates on thematic issues related to 
conflict  prevention,  peacebuilding  and  peacekeeping, 
women and peace and security, and the role of young 
people in the fight to combat violent extremism, among 
others.  Morocco  participated  in  almost  all  of  those 
debates and fully appreciates them, because they make 
it possible for the members of the Security Council to 
listen  to  and  interact  with  all  the  States  Members  of 
the United Nations. As we mentioned previously, it is 
15-36233
21/27
A/70/PV.51 
12/11/2015
important for the debate topics to be focused so that we 
can benefit as much as possible from them.
In  the  same  vein,  my  delegation  believes  that  the 
practice,  now  established,  of  holding  annual  debates 
on  the  Council’s  working  methods  is  a  positive  that 
contributes, specifically through the Ad Hoc Working 
Group dedicated to the issue, to imbuing its work with 
greater effectiveness, efficiency and transparency. My 
delegation  wishes  to  congratulate  the  members  of  the 
Council for the important improvements introduced in 
recent years in that principal organ’s working methods. 
We are persuaded that the latter will continue to address 
those questions with great interest.
Furthermore,  my  delegation  wishes  to  stress  the 
importance  of  strengthened  interaction  between  the 
Council and the Peacebuilding Commission (PBC) and 
its  country-specific  configurations.  The  briefings  by 
the Chair of the Commission and the country-specific 
configurations allow the Security Council to integrate 
the  related  peacebuilding  components  essential  to 
sustainable  peace  into  its  consideration  of  situations 
on  the  Commission’s  agenda  and  its  decisions  in  that 
regard.
The Security Council has continued to pay particular 
attention  to  the  African  continent.  In  that  regard,  my 
delegation welcomes the significant progress made by 
many African countries on the path of peacebuilding, 
improving  security  conditions  and  the  normalization 
of  political  life  and  the  implementation  of  national 
reconciliation processes.
With  regard  to  the  Central  African  Republic, 
the  period  under  review  includes  the  deployment 
of  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic 
in September 2014, nearly two years after the outbreak 
of  the  crisis  in  that  country.  Morocco,  in  accordance 
with  its  commitment  to  peace  and  stability  on  the 
continent,  worked  during  its  2012-2013  term  on  the 
Council  to  create  the  Mission  and  was  among  the 
first countries to send troops into the Central African 
Republic, initially to constitute the guard unit and then 
to strengthen its presence at the time the Mission was 
being established. Since then, significant progress has 
been  achieved,  notably  at  the  political  level,  with  the 
convening  of  the  Bangui  Forum,  which  for  the  first 
time brought representatives from all levels of Central 
African society to take important decisions, which we 
should ensure are implemented.
Morocco  also  chairs  the  PBC  country-specific 
configuration  on  the  Central  African  Republic  and 
works to strengthen peacebuilding in that country. The 
work of the configuration essentially focuses on support 
for  the  political  process,  particularly  the  financing  of 
elections,  but  also  on  national  reconciliation  projects 
and strengthening the rule of law. The Central African 
Republic remains in an unstable situation that requires 
our ongoing support and special attention, particularly 
on the part of the Council, to put the country back on a 
path to peace and stability.
With regard to the Sahel, Morocco has never ceased 
to  draw  the  international  community’s  attention  to 
the situation in the region. That role was pursued and 
strengthened during our Council term, which strongly 
supported  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations 
Integrated Strategy for the Sahel. We note that the hope 
and  the  approach  behind  the  implementation  of  the 
Strategy is constantly being eroded,  despite the fact that 
the deteriorating situation in certain regions of the Sahel 
demands increased and substantial support on the part 
of the international community. We hope that the next 
briefing by the Special Representative of the Secretary-
General, at the end of the month, will enable us to be 
informed  in  a  more  detailed  manner  on  the  progress 
made,  especially  on  the  difficulties  encountered  in 
implementing  the  Strategy.  It  is  important  to  think 
about  an  action  plan  to  implement  and  improve  the 
Strategy and to minimize its shortcomings.
The  Security  Council  has  continued  its  regular 
review of the Palestinian question, and my delegation 
has participated in all Council open debates on the issue. 
Nevertheless, we must take the opportunity afforded by 
the review of today’s report to note that, unfortunately, 
the  situation  continues  to  deteriorate  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories  in  general  and  in  Al-Quds 
Al-Sharif  in  particular,  following  an  escalation  of 
violence and repeated incursions by Israeli settlers on 
Haram Al-Sharif of the Al-Aqsa Mosque, in violation of 
the relevant resolutions of the Security Council and the 
General  Assembly.  In  that  regard,  on  the  instructions 
of His Majesty the King, as President of the Al-Quds 
Committee,  on  26  September,  on  the  sidelines  of  the 
seventieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  Morocco 
chaired  a  meeting  of  the  Organization  of  Islamic 
Cooperation’s  Ministerial  Contact  Group,  which 
adopted a declaration condemning the Israeli violations 
and calling for protecting Al-Quds Al-Sharif.
The  impasse  on  the  Palestinian  issue  must  not 
continue.  The  Security  Council  must  play  its  role  in 
22/27 
15-36233
12/11/2015 
A/70/PV.51
finding a solution to the Palestinian issue and bringing 
the two parties to the negotiating table to reach a lasting 
solution  to  enable  the  establishment  of  the  State  of 
Palestine, with East Jerusalem as its capital, based on a 
two-State solution and within the 4 July 1967 borders, 
living side by side in peace and security.
With regard to Libya, since the uprising of the Libyan 
people in February 2011, the Kingdom of Morocco has 
consistently supported the legitimate aspirations of the 
Libyan people to live in dignity and democracy. Also, 
at  the  request  of  the  Secretary-General,  His  Majesty 
King  Mohammed  VI  agreed  to  host  the  talks  for 
inter-Libyan peace in Skhirat, under the auspices of the 
Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Libya and 
Head of the United Nations Support Mission in Libya. 
The talks led to the initialling of the Skhirat political 
agreement on 11 July. In that regard, Council members 
expressed their gratitude to Morocco for its efforts to 
make  progress  on  the  agreement  and  welcomed  the 
Libyan  dialogue.  My  delegation  continues  to  call  all 
Libyan parties to persevere on the path of dialogue to 
reach a settlement to the situation in that country with 
the participation of all sectors of Libyan society.
The  Security  Council  has  devoted  a  major  part 
of its agenda and its meetings to the fight against the 
scourge of terrorism. That demonstrates the gravity of 
the  horrific  phenomenon  and  the  increasing  threat  it 
poses  to  the  international  community.  In  that  regard, 
my  delegation  welcomes  the  adoption,  during  the 
period  under  review,  of  Security  Council  resolutions 
2170 (2014), 2178 (2014) and 2199 (2015) and Security 
Council  presidential  statements  S/PRST/2015/4  and 
S/PRST/2015/14,  which  introduce  a  set  of  measures 
to counter terrorist groups, including Daesh and Boko 
Haram,  and  to  address  the  threat  posed  by  foreign 
terrorist fighters.
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  an  active  participant, 
responsible  and  respected  on  the  international  scene 
in the area of the fight against terrorism and religious 
extremism, has developed for that purpose an approach 
based on the following principles.
First, we must work to optimize security governance 
and  to  upgrade  the  legal  framework  for  combating 
terrorism.
Secondly,  we  must  combat  social  instability  and 
promote  sustainable  human  development.  We  must 
recall that His Majesty the King launched in 2005 the 
national initiative for human development, specifically 
to combat social gaps, exclusion and poverty.
Thirdly,  we  must  restructure  the  religious  area, 
particularly through the training of imams on the real 
teachings  of  Islam  based  on  tolerance,  coexistence, 
openness  and  respect  for  others.  We  should  note  in 
that  regard  that  the  countries  of  the  friends  of  Africa 
and  Europe  have  concluded  bilateral  agreements  with 
Morocco  for  the  training  of  imams  in  Morocco,  who 
later become trainers in their own respective countries. 
That experience, in its three dimensions, has led to the 
Moroccan  approach  to  combat  incitement  to  commit 
terrorist acts motivated by extremism and intolerance, 
which  was  shared  during  a  high-level  meeting  held 
in  30  September  2014  with  members  of  the  Security 
Council Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC), together 
with the Members of the United Nations, at the initiative 
of Morocco and the CTC Executive Directorate.
I  cannot  conclude  without  warmly  congratulating 
Egypt, Japan, Senegal, Ukraine and Uruguay on their 
well-deserved  election  as  non-permanent  members  of 
the Security Council for the period 2016-2017. I am sure 
they will fully and successfully contribute to the efforts 
of  the  Council  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security.
Ms.  Lodhi  (Pakistan):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President of the General Assembly for convening today’s 
meeting.  My  delegation  welcomes  this  opportunity  to 
express its views on the report of the Security Council 
(A/70/2).  This  annual  debate  is  useful  in  reviewing 
not just the work of the Security Council but also the 
manner in which the Council operates. We also thank 
Ambassador Matthew Rycroft of the United Kingdom 
for presenting the report in his capacity as the President 
of the Security Council for this month. 
The  Security  Council  is  the  premier  institution 
charged  with  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security — which does not, of 
course,  strip  the  General  Assembly  of  its  role  in  that 
regard. The Council acts on behalf of the broader United 
Nations membership, and is therefore accountable to it. 
Only with a substantive annual report by the Council 
and  a  two-way  communication  between  the  Council 
and the General Assembly can this debate on the report 
of  the  Security  Council  become  meaningful.  I  would 
like to outline our main observations and impressions 
about the Council’s report. 
15-36233
23/27
A/70/PV.51 
12/11/2015
We  believe  that  the  Security  Council  conducted 
its  business  reasonably  efficiently,  as  reflected  in  the 
number of meetings that it held as well as the substantial 
number  of  outcomes  that  it  was  able  to  agree  on.  We 
appreciate the Council’s ability to reach consensus and 
make  progress  on  counter-terrorism  issues.  Important 
work was done in that regard during the past reporting 
period. 
There has been a gradual yet perceptible increase 
in  the  number  of  public  meetings.  We  hope  that  such 
a  culture  of  transparency  will  continue  to  grow.  We 
are  also  pleased  to  note  the  continuation  of  wrap-up 
sessions  by  the  monthly  presidencies  of  the  Council, 
which  is  a  practice  that  Pakistan  revived  during  its 
presidency in January 2013. Seven such meetings were 
organized during the reporting period.
On  the  other  hand,  the  report  of  the  Council 
continues  to  be  a  compilation  of  documents  and 
information, and it lacks substance. More than a fourth 
of the report is made up of compendiums of meetings. 
While  we  understand  the  possible  difficulties  in 
preparing a substantive report, greater effort is required 
in  that  regard.  That  would  enable  all  delegations  to 
offer substantive comments and would make the debate 
on today’s agenda item more useful.
We  recognize  those  limitations  and  would  like  to 
share  some  observations  on  the  work  of  the  Security 
Council.  The  continuation  of  the  robust  work  of  the 
Council  in  peacekeeping  is  indeed  welcome.  As  a 
leading  troop-contributing  country  (TCC),  Pakistan 
takes pride in being a part of that important endeavour 
of  the  Council.  In  order  to  make  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  more  effective,  however,  we  believe 
that  closer  interaction  and  consultations  between  the 
Council and the TCCs is warranted. That continues to 
be a persistent shortcoming in the Council’s work. We 
remain  concerned  at  the  Council’s  tendency  to  use  in 
particular measures under Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations, without fully utilizing Chapter 
VI and Chapter VIII possibilities. 
inability 
The  Council’s 
to  act  effectively  or 
decisively,  or  even  to  pronounce  itself  clearly,  on 
the  situation  in  Palestine  is  inexplicable  and  frankly 
inexcusable. That inability imperils peace and security 
and contributes to aggression and violence. Importantly, 
it reinforces the perceptions of selectivity. An impression 
of double standards in its approach will undermine the 
effectiveness of the Council. The Council must not only 
stake its claim to being fair, unbiased and effective; it 
must also be perceived by others to be so. The Council 
would  also  enhance  its  credibility  if  it  were  able  to 
respond to the raging violence and spreading chaos and 
disorder elsewhere in the Middle East. 
The  Council  and  the  General  Assembly  should 
work  as  partners  in  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security. The General Assembly can discuss 
vexing issues that do not find a solution in the Council. 
The number of annual meetings of the Council clearly 
indicates the burden that it bears on a day-to-day basis. 
It  should  not  seek  to  further  burden  itself  by  trying 
to  assume  functions  that  other  United  Nations  bodies 
are  mandated  to  perform.  That  approach  not  only 
undermines  the  effectiveness  of  the  relevant  United 
Nations  bodies,  it  also  prevents  the  Security  Council 
from  devoting  more  focus  and  time  to  the  issues  that 
directly fall within its scope.
The  Council  needs  to  be  more  responsive  to  the 
membership’s  call  for  improvements  in  its  working 
methods.  We  acknowledge  some  progress  in  the 
Council’s  interaction  with  the  wider  membership, 
sharing  penholderships  with  non-permanent  members 
and  the  adoption  of  a  Pakistan-initiated  proposal  of 
intra-Council dialogue. However, most Member States 
agree that progress in those areas is far too slow. 
The Council’s working methods need to be in sync 
with the values promoted by the United Nations — the 
values of transparency, inclusiveness and participation. 
Pakistan made certain recommendations in that regard 
during  last  year’s  Assembly  debate  (see  A/69/PV.58) 
on this agenda item. We also proposed that a synopsis 
of the views of all Member States be circulated as an 
official document. We were pleased to see action taken 
by the President of the General Assembly at its sixty-
ninth session in that regard. 
The  foregoing  views  and  suggestions  can  still 
be  helpful  in  improving  the  working  methods  of  the 
Council.  Also,  a  joint  committee  of  the  Security 
Council and the General Assembly could be formed to 
examine implementation of our recommendations.
In conclusion, I would like to say that Pakistan is 
also  open  to  other  initiatives  that  could  promote  the 
values I have just outlined. To that end, we assure the 
President of our cooperation and support.
Ms. Zahir (Maldives): At the outset, my delegation 
wishes  to  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gerard  van 
24/27 
15-36233
12/11/2015 
A/70/PV.51
Bohemen, Permanent Representative of New Zealand, 
and  his  team  for  their  efforts  in  drafting  this  year’s 
report (A/70/2) of the Security Council. I also wish to 
express my appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Matthew 
Rycroft,  Permanent  Representative  of 
the  United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which 
currently holds the presidency of the Security Council, 
for introducing the document here today.
My  delegation 
takes  note  of 
the  activities, 
initiatives and decisions taken by the Security Council 
during the reporting period, which have had a positive 
impact in a number of situations across the globe that 
have and continue to pose threats to the maintenance of 
international peace and security. Maldives commends 
the  efforts  that  have  been  made  to  enhance  the 
accountability,  coherence  and  transparency  of  the 
Council. The efforts made to acknowledge the broader 
dimensions  of  international  peace  and  security  are 
greatly welcome and form the foundation for a Council 
that  is  truly  representative  of  the  Organization’s 
membership.  The  Arria  Formula  meeting  of  the 
Security  Council  in  June  on  the  security  dimensions 
of climate change and the open debate on the security 
concerns  of  small  island  developing  States  in  July  of 
this  year  (see  S/PV.7499)  are  two  recent  initiatives 
that embody a necessary recognition of the vast array 
of  security  concerns  faced  by  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations. It is important that the momentum that 
those events generated not be lost.
The  report  of  the  Security  Council  constitutes 
an  annual  exercise  of  summarizing  past  activities 
conducted  by  the  Council.  We  note  that  it  does 
not  effectively  underline  important  priority  areas. 
However, while debates in the General Assembly focus 
on  closer  cooperation  between  the  Assembly  and  the 
Security Council and on the Council’s ability to foster 
international peace and security, my delegation would 
welcome  a  more  analytical  and  reflective  approach, 
with a view to making the Council more effective in its 
future work.
The  Security  Council  is  a  principal  organ  of 
the  United  Nations,  and  the  adoption  of  its  annual 
report should be an occasion for more comprehensive 
engagement  on  the  part  of  the  entire  membership  of 
the  United  Nations.  Non-members  of  the  Security 
Council  should  be  afforded  an  opportunity  to  make 
their  suggestions  and  share  their  analyses  on  the 
efficacy  with  which  the  Council  has  represented  the 
Organization  for  the  year.  To  that  end,  my  delegation 
joins the call for an open debate of the Council to be 
held prior to the finalization of the Council’s report.
With  regard  to  the  substance  of  the  document, 
Maldives would like to highlight its deepening concern 
about  the  Council’s  inaction  on  a  number  of  issues 
that  are  of  dire  importance  to  international  peace 
and security. The inability of the Security Council to 
take  concrete  action  with  regard  to  the  situations  in 
Palestine and Syria and in countering the expansion of 
and the impacts caused by the so-called Islamic State 
represents one of the gravest failings of our time. That 
those  issues  have  not  been  meaningfully  addressed 
by the Council negates the principles enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations and in international law.
It is imperative that the report adequately analyse 
the  work  of  the  Council,  while  acknowledging  its 
shortcomings,  and  that  an  opportunity  be  given  for 
those  shortcomings  to  be  addressed  when  moving 
forward.  The  Council  acts  on  behalf  of  the  entire 
membership  of  the  Organization,  and  any  inability 
to  fulfil  its  mandate  calls  into  question  the  Council’s 
legitimacy and relevance. Any such inability therefore 
also  calls  into  question  the  legitimacy  and  relevance 
of  the  Organization  as  a  whole.  The  States  Members 
of  the  United  Nations  deserve  better.  The  people  of 
the world, whom we represent, deserve better as well. 
Maldives  looks  forward  to  continuing  its  engagement 
and advocacy in favour of a Council that is both truly 
reflective of the broader membership and representative 
of its views.
Mr.  Mohamed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to align myself with the previous 
speakers  who  affirmed  the  importance  of  improving 
the relationship between the Security Council and the 
General Assembly, which, as the principal consultative 
organ for States Members of the United Nations, is the 
forum in which they can express themselves and voice 
their opinions. 
In its annual report (A/70/2), the Security Council 
highlights its role as contributor to the maintenance of 
international peace and security pursuant to its mandate 
under the Charter of the United Nations. It is important 
to note, however, that the Security Council’s role does 
not  preclude  the  General  Assembly’s  own  role  as  a 
main  actor  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security.  Indeed,  the  General  Assembly’s  role  in 
terms of international peace and security should not be 
limited to briefings such as today’s, which are merely 
pro forma.
15-36233
25/27
A/70/PV.51 
12/11/2015
The report we have before us is simply a quantitative 
procedural  account  of  the  cases  and  situations  under 
review  at  the  Security  Council.  It  is  a  compendium 
of events that occurred during the period covered and 
of the activities undertaken by the Council in the past 
year.  We  believe  that  such  a  procedural  review  does 
not  reflect  the  true  role  that  could  be  played  by  the 
General Assembly together with the Security Council 
in dealing with questions related to international peace 
and  security.  We  have  therefore  stressed  in  all  of  our 
statements that a pivotal aspect of reforming the United 
Nations  would  be  to  reform  the  relationship  between 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  with 
a  view  to  implementing  a  better  and  more  effective 
relationship leading to the General Assembly’s taking 
its rightful place and playing its full role in that regard. 
We  also  reiterate  the  importance  of  taking  into 
account the concerns of those Member States that find 
themselves on the agenda of the Security Council, and 
call the Assembly’s attention to the fact that the State 
most  concerned  in  a  Security  Council  discussion  is 
often  completely  excluded  from  the  discussions  and 
consultations  on  it.  Furthermore,  the  new  practice 
that  gives  certain  States  the  right  to  be  an  exclusive 
penholder  revives,  in  essence,  an  outmoded  colonial 
methodology that is not supported by the Charter.
In  our  view,  reforming  the  working  methods  of 
the  Security  Council  and  its  procedures  is  vital  for 
achieving comprehensive reform, one that provides for 
the  just  geographic  distribution  of  membership  in  the 
Council among the continents of the world, in particular 
our  mother  continent,  Africa,  which  consists  of  54 
States. In fact, more than 67 per cent of the matters on 
the Council’s agenda are related to Africa. 
As  we  are  concentrating  today  on  the  procedural 
measures  needed  to  improve  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Security  Council  in  its  work,  we  reaffirm  what  has 
been  expressed  in  the  documents  of  the  ministerial 
conferences  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  countries, 
including the conference held in Bali in May 2010 on 
improvement of the Security Council working methods. 
We  also  support  the  implementation  of  the  note  by 
the  President  of  the  Security  Council  on  procedural 
measures,  contained  in  document  S/2010/507,  as  well 
as  the  circulation  of  the  Council’s  daily  programme 
of  work  in  the  United  Nations  Journal,  which  would 
make it accessible to all. In addition, transparency and 
objectivity require that the monthly programme of work 
of the Council also be circulated to all Member States 
at the beginning of each month. 
When  it  comes  to  briefings  by  members  of  the 
Secretariat  or  representatives  of  subsidiary  bodies 
of  the  Security  Council,  we  stress  the  importance  of 
making  written  texts  and  any  audiovisual  materials 
that accompany such briefings available to all Member 
States.  With  respect  to  official  documents  of  the 
Council, especially reports of the Secretary-General on 
peacekeeping  missions,  we  underline  the  importance 
of circulating such reports in all six official languages 
of the United Nations long enough before the start of 
Security Council deliberations for delegations to review 
them. In many cases such documents are circulated only 
in draft form and often only to members of the Security 
Council,  while  the  report  under  consideration,  which 
is an official document, is rarely circulated to Member 
States  before  the  day  itself  of  the  deliberations,    and 
sometimes even only afterwards.
With  respect  to  the  types  of  meetings  held, 
despite  the  relative  increase  in  the  number  of  open 
or  public  meetings,  it  goes  without  saying  that  the 
majority of Council meetings are in the form of closed 
consultations,  and  thus  are  exclusively  for  members 
of  the  Security  Council  and  their  invitees,  whose 
opinions are sought, for example representatives of the 
Secretariat. However, for objectivity and transparency 
to be ensured, at a minimum the State concerned should 
be allowed to take part in such consultations. We also 
stress  the  importance  of  the  principle  of  consultation 
and  cooperation  between  the  Security  Council  and 
regional  and  subregional  organizations,  including  the 
holding  of  joint  consultative  meetings  in  compliance 
with  Chapter  VIII  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  We 
would also note the right of Member States to participate 
in open meetings in accordance with Articles 37 and 39 
of  the  Charter  and  the  Security  Council’s  provisional 
rules of procedure.
the 
In  conclusion,  we  stress 
importance  of 
cooperation and coordination among the organs of the 
United Nations, including through consultations among 
the  Presidents  of  the  Security  Council,  the  General 
Assembly and the Economic and Social Council. Such an 
approach in no way violates the exclusive competencies 
and  mandates  of  each  organ.  We  look  forward  to  the 
first  fruits  of  reform,  in  particular  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  and  its  working  methods,  together 
with its relationship with the General Assembly. That 
26/27 
15-36233
12/11/2015 
A/70/PV.51
reform should be undertaken in a practical manner that 
revitalizes the role of the General Assembly as the main 
deliberative organ of the United Nations. 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
General  Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Security Council contained in document A/70/2?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m.
15-36233
27/27
