United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
28th plenary meeting
Saturday, 3 October 2015, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.28
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Hugo Roger Martínez Bonilla, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of El Salvador.
Mr.  Martinez  Bonilla  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  It  is  an  honour  to  address  the  Assembly  on 
this  very  important  occasion,  as  we  commemorate 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the 
international Organization, and we have entered a new 
phase related to the future of humankind by adopting the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1).
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  challenges  that  lie 
before  us  are  enormous,  and  consequently  we  have 
need  an  Organization  that  is  ever  more  democratic, 
participatory  and  effective.  We  must  move  forward 
in  the  still-pending  reforms  of  the  Organization.  We 
must work with renewed vigour on that task, especially 
with  regard  to  the  Security  Council.  The  adoption  of 
the  new  Agenda  imposes  on  our  countries  numerous 
challenges  to  which  we  are  committed,  but  it  also 
imposes  challenges  on  the  Organization,  particularly 
with regard to providing us with timely support to fulfil 
the historic responsibility that we have assumed.
We have concluded a stage in world history marked 
by  important  progress  in  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  However, 
that  progress  has 
not  been  sufficient.  The  fight  against  poverty  and 
inequality  goes  on.  Economic  and  financial  crises 
have  aggravated  the  vulnerability  of  the  poorest.  In 
addition,  the  proliferation  of  conflicts  throughout  the 
world and natural and human-made disasters have had 
an impact on the living conditions of many people in 
various  parts  of  the  world.  Those  conditions  demand 
that  we  bring  about  a  genuine  and  sustainable  global 
transformation,  which  must  include  the  restructuring 
of  the  international  financial  architecture,  as  well  as 
a  rethinking  of  cooperation  mechanisms  with  a  view 
to  transforming  them  into  transparent  and  efficient 
mechanisms that meet the needs of human development.
I believe that we must pay special attention to the 
issue  of  sovereign  debt.  The  negative  impact  of  debt  
servicing  on  development  needs  and  on  the  effective 
enjoyment of human rights in our countries is enormous, 
because  it  directly  affects  the  capacity  of  the  State 
to  generate  public  investment  and  stimulate  private 
investment. That in turn impedes the fulfillment of the 
goals related to development. It is therefore a priority to 
establish a debt restructuring mechanism that promotes 
a just and shared distribution of responsibility between 
debtors and creditors by adopting an approach centred 
on human needs. 
We  know  that  for  the  success  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  a  new  vision  of  international 
cooperation is required. To that end, we must work to 
change the current structure of development financing 
and strengthen South-South cooperation without delay.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29946 (E)
*1529946*
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
adopted  by 
in 
to  sustainable  development 
My country recognizes the importance of the fact 
that in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution  70/1), 
the  Sustainable 
Development  Summit,  special  mention  is  made  of 
migrants as a vulnerable group, and of their undoubted 
contribution 
the 
countries in which they live. El Salvador insists that the 
international  community,  the  organizations  involved 
in  migration  issues,  those  defending  migrants  and 
human  rights  in  general  —  but  especially  the  United 
Nations — should take up the challenge with courage 
and guide the actions of their agencies, resources and 
programmes  to  strengthen  cooperation  initiatives  in 
the field of international migration in all its facets. In 
the various migration crises we face, we must not lose 
sight of the fact that we are dealing with human beings, 
whose rights and development we should guarantee.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  highlight  the  special 
contribution  that  Latin  America  and  its  regional 
organizations  have  made  to  multilateralism.  Their 
valuable  proposals  and  initiatives  have  contributed  to 
promoting and making progress on issues that are very 
relevant to the international agenda, such as migration, 
the 
rights, 
gender  empowerment  and  equality,  and  sustainable 
development,  among  others.  All  of  the  efforts  that 
we  have  undertaken  as  a  region  have  been  extremely 
valuable in the progress of the multilateral agenda, and 
they  have  been  aimed  at  strengthening  solidarity  and 
cooperation among the peoples of the world. 
environment,  disarmament,  human 
In  that  context,  we  should  mention  the  regional 
efforts  made  by  the  Central  American  Integration 
System,  particularly  in  the  area  of  security,  which 
complement the regional efforts and the national efforts 
undertaken by each of our countries.
In  the  area  of  security,  as  members  know,  El 
Salvador  is  waging  an  unprecedented  war  against 
organized crime through its El Salvador Seguro plan, 
which,  like  the  Central  American  Security  Strategy, 
has  four  main  components:  crime  prevention,  crime 
prosecution,  rehabilitation  and  reintegration,  and  the 
strengthening  of  the  institutions  that  fight  crime.  We 
have committed a major part of our national resources 
to this effort, but the scope of the challenge forces us 
to come to the international community to request its 
strong support and solidarity, so that we may win this 
good  fight  against  criminal  groups  that  threaten  the 
peace of our families.
Moreover,  in  relation  to  the  global  drug  problem, 
I wish to emphasize the coming special session of the 
General  Assembly  on  drugs,  to  be  held  next  April  in 
this  Hall.  The  special  session  in  2016  will  give  us  an 
opportunity  to  revitalize  the  dialogue  and  exchange 
good  experiences  so  that  we  can  assess  the  progress 
made  in  complying  with  our  international  obligations 
to combat drugs and to work at the same time on the 
challenges to be overcome at the global level. 
El  Salvador  is  pleased  and  honoured,  as  the 
coordinator  of  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
Group, to have the opportunity to represent the Latin 
American  region  at  meetings  of  the  preparatory 
committee  for  that  event.  We  will  seek  close  and 
effective coordination so that the debates and dialogues 
move towards the definition of a comprehensive vision 
of  an  international  policy  against  drugs  based  on  the 
welfare  of  the  individual  and  respect  for  his  or  her  
rights.
Furthermore, in the context of the importance that 
my  country  attaches  to  controlling  the  arms  trade  as 
an  effective  means  of  reducing  the  violence  plaguing 
Central  America,  El  Salvador 
supportsrelevant 
international  regulation  to  combat  organized  crime 
so  as  to  prevent  the  human  suffering  caused  by 
irresponsible  transfers  of  weapons.  I  fervently  appeal 
to  the  international  community  to  work  together 
on  the  effective  implementation  of  the  Arms  Trade 
Treaty  and  its  universalization.  Let  us  not  forget  that 
decisive  action  in  that  area  means  nothing  less  than 
the difference between life and death for thousands of 
individuals in the world.
At the same time, El Salvador, as a country that has 
benefited  from  peacekeeping  operations,  recognizes 
that mechanism as a legitimate and effective measure 
for ending conflicts in countries and regions. On that 
count and as part of our staunch commitment to peace 
and international security, my country will continue to 
participate  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions 
through 
its  contributions  of  military  and  police 
personnel. We will continue to work to strengthen our 
participation by deploying units under their own flag. 
We also support all the initiatives aimed at ensuring the 
participation  of  women  in  the  various  contingents,  as 
provided for in Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) 
and subsequent Council resolutions.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  recall  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
2/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
must  be  aware  that  they  are  still  valid  and  should  be 
respected  by    all  Member  States  in  the  process  of 
change that we have begun. 
In  that  context,  we  should  also  mention  the 
process  of  detente  that  has  begun  between  Cuba  and 
the United States of America, a process that has had a 
positive  impact  not  only  on  the  relations  between  the 
two  countries,  but  also  on  the  continent  as  a  whole. 
El  Salvador  is  pleased  with  the  re-establishment  of 
diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States 
of  America  and  trusts  that  in  the  current  favourable 
climate,  the  will  expressed  to  lift  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba  will 
become a reality as soon as possible.
I am convinced that with a will and with effort, we 
can all build an international order based on promoting 
peace, security and sustainable development, protecting  
human  rights,  eradicating  poverty  and  reducing 
inequalities.  E1  Salvador  stands  ready  to  face  that 
challenge and is committed to working to that end.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Yousef  Bin  Al-Alawi  Bin  Abdulla,  Minister  of 
State for Foreign Affairs of the Sultanate of Oman.
Mr.  Abdulla  (Oman)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to congratulate you, Sir, and your 
country,  the  Kingdom  of  Denmark,  on  your  election 
as President of the General Assembly at its seventieth 
session. We trust that your diplomatic experience will 
greatly impact the success of this session. We are ready 
to work with you, Sir, and all the delegations of Member 
States  so  as  to  accomplish  our  goals  and  objectives, 
particularly in the maintenance of international peace 
and  security  and  in  the  achievement  of  sustainable 
development.
We are also pleased to express our appreciation to 
His Excellency Mr. Sam Kutesa, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the friendly Republic of Uganda, for his able 
stewardship  of  the  Assembly  at  the  previous  session. 
I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  pay  tribute 
once again to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
tireless efforts to improve the work of the Organization 
in order to meet the aspirations of all Member States.
This 
the 
session  coincides  with 
seventieth 
anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations. 
The  occasion  represents  an  opportunity  to  renew  our 
confidence  in  joint  international  action  through  the 
adoption of positive initiatives that could contribute to 
the creation of an international economic order based 
on justice for all States and nations.
Since  the  dawn  of  the  Omani  renaissance  on 
23  July  1970,  we  in  the  Sultanate  of  Oman  have 
embraced  peace  and  dialogue  as  basic  principles. 
That  is  because  we  are  convinced  that  dialogue  is 
the  most  logical  foundation  upon  which  all  forms  of 
conflict can be resolved. Throughout the history of the 
United  Nations,  humankind  has  sought  to  strengthen 
confidence through agreed and conciliatory ideas and 
the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  which 
help to deepen and widen common interests and mutual 
benefits.  We  also  believe  that  dialogue  is  a  peaceful 
means of settling disputes, and its use is preferable to 
resorting to confrontation and conflict.
From  that  perspective,  my  country  welcomed  the 
agreement reached between the P5+1 and the friendly 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  on  the  Iranian  nuclear 
programme.  Despite  the  fact  that  that  breakthrough 
took  great  effort  and  a  considerable  amount  of  time, 
it  can  serve  as  a  model  for  solving  controversial  and 
complicated issues among countries through dialogue, 
negotiation and the balancing of international interests. 
We hope that that historic agreement will have a positive 
impact on regional and international peace and security 
and  pave  the  way  for  a  new  era  of  relations  based  on 
cooperation, respect and mutual trust.
The raising of the flag of the State of Palestine as an 
observer State at the United Nations, though a symbolic 
gesture,  reminds  us  of  the  tragedy  of  the  Palestinian 
people  and  their  aspirations  to  attain  fulfilment  of 
their legitimate rights. We call on the Palestinians and 
the Israelis alike to return to the negotiating table and 
work on achieving the vision of two independent States 
living  side  by  side,  through  steps  that  would  secure 
the interests of both parties, based on the pillars of the 
Arab Peace Initiative and the relevant United Nations 
resolutions. We also call upon the United Nations and 
the parties sponsoring the peace process in the Middle 
East  to  make  greater  efforts  to  reach  an  agreement 
for  the  settlement  of  the  crisis,  instead  of  merely  to 
managing it.
My  country  also  follows  with  great  concern  the 
developments in the crisis in the brotherly Republic of 
Yemen, which has resulted in disastrous humanitarian 
tragedies.  While  we  understand  the  circumstances 
that  provoked  the  crisis,  we  continue  to  believe  that 
the political parties in Yemen are capable of restoring 
security  and  stability  to  the  country.  We  are  deeply 
15-29946
3/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
concerned that the continuation of violence in Yemen 
has  enabled  several  terrorist  organizations,  including 
those on United Nations watch lists, to use Yemen as 
a base for their terrorist activities. That poses a direct 
threat to the region’s security and stability.
the Treaty to fully implement the resolution of the 1995 
NPT Review Conference on making the Middle East a 
region  free  from  nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons 
of  mass  destruction.  That  would  help  safeguard  the 
credibility and universality of that important treaty.
We  call  upon  all  political  forces  in  Yemen  to 
support  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General’s  Special 
Envoy,  Ismail  Ould  Cheikh  Ahmed,  to  contribute  to 
the restoration of peace and stability in the Republic of 
Yemen and to enable the achievement of the aspirations 
of the brotherly Yemeni people to a safe and dignified 
life. My country also expresses its strong condemnation 
of the targeting of diplomatic and consular premises in 
Yemen’s capital, Sana’a. We call on all parties to respect 
the rules of international law and refrain from any acts 
that violate their international obligations, particularly 
those set forth in the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic 
Relations  of  1961  and  the  Vienna  Convention  on 
Consular Relations of 1963.
As the Syrian crisis has now entered its fifth year, 
the  Syrian  people  continue  to  suffer;  hundreds  of 
thousands have left their homes and risked their lives 
in  circumstances  unprecedented  in  modern  history. 
We  call  upon  all  Syrian  parties  and  neighbouring 
countries  to  support  the  mission  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  Special  Envoy,  Mr.  Staffan  de  Mistura,  to 
restore security and stability to that brotherly country 
and contribute to the eradication of the terrorism that 
has been able to find a foothold in Syria and currently 
poses a threat to regional and international security. My 
country reiterates its firm and uncompromising stance 
in condemning all forms of terrorism, without regard to 
their causes and motivations.
While  we  commend  the  humanitarian  efforts  by 
countries and regional and international organizations 
to  alleviate  the  suffering  of  the  Syrian  people,  we 
appeal to the international community to do even more 
to  protect  the  brotherly  Syrian  people  at  home  and 
abroad. In that respect, we would like to emphasize the 
continuation  of  the  humanitarian  programme  offered 
by the Sultanate of Oman to help Syrian refugees.
My country stresses the importance of maintaining 
the universality of the nuclear non-proliferation regime. 
That can be achieved only by strengthening the three 
pillars of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons (NPT), namely, nuclear disarmament, nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy.  In  that  context,  we  call  upon  the  sponsors  of 
Resolution  55/2,  containing 
the  Millennium 
Declaration,  is  considered  an  important  document, 
as  it  sets  forth  an  ambitious  international  programme 
to  assist  countries  achieve  high  levels  of  economic 
and  social  development.  However,  the  weakness  of 
the  global  economy  over  the  past  20  years  has  had 
serious  social  repercussions,  including  an  increase 
in  number  of  unemployed,  which  has  crippled  the 
ability  of  many  countries  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. Bearing that in mind, we call upon 
the  international  community  to  put  the  issues  of  the 
economy, trade and the environment at the forefront of 
the  urgent  issues  that  need  to  be  addressed.  The  first 
and foremost of those issues is the international energy 
trade, since it is crucial that the international trade in 
energy, specifically the price of oil and its by-products, 
be properly organized.
My country looks forward to the convening of the 
twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change in Paris. We hope that participating countries 
can agree on a balanced international programme that 
takes  into  account  the  concerns  and  interests  of  all 
developing and developed countries.
We are facing real challenges that we must tackle 
resolutely if we are to ensure that we are not hindering 
development  but  encouraging  it  in  a  way  that  helps 
us  to  achieve  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
We  therefore  believe  that  the  next  phase  of  joint 
international  action  requires  that  the  members  of  the 
international  community  expand  their  concept  of 
genuine partnership and shared destiny. We hope that 
this session succeeds and that the goals of the United 
Nations will be accomplished.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Péter  Szijjártó,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Trade of Hungary.
Mr.  Szijjártó  (Hungary):  I  am  pleased  to  be 
addressing  the  General  Assembly  on  the  occasion  of 
this seventieth anniversary. 
Seventy years ago, the United Nations was founded 
to promote cooperation among its Member States and 
4/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
to  establish  international  peace  and  security.  That 
would be a good reason to celebrate, but here we are, 70 
years later, and if we are frank with one another —and 
we  should  be  —  it  is  obvious  that  there  are  no  major 
reasons to be satisfied or to celebrate. That is because, 
on the seventieth anniversary of the foundation of the 
United Nations, it is not an exaggeration to say that in 
the years since the end of Second World War, Europe, 
where I come from, has not had to face at any one time 
challenges as numerous and as serious as those that it 
is facing now. And if we are talking about the world as 
the  whole,  putting  things  in  a  global  context,  we  can 
say that since the end of the Cold War, the world has 
not had to face as many simultaneous difficulties as it 
is facing now.
Over  the  past  five  years,  we  have  seen  15  wars 
and  armed  conflicts  launched  or  renewed.  And  now 
Europe is facing a war as well. A couple of years ago, 
we would not have thought that Europe would have to 
face  a  war  again  in  the  twenty-first  century,  but  now 
that has happened. There is a war going on in Ukraine, 
in  our  neighbourhood;  and  if  we  look  at  the  eastern 
region  of  Europe,  we  see  a  series  of  frozen  conflicts 
and  territorial  disputes.  The  European  Union  runs  a 
programme  called  the  Eastern  Partnership,  through 
which we promote cooperation with six former Soviet 
republics that would like to have some type of European 
perspective. But Belarus is the only country of the six 
that is not involved in some kind of territorial dispute 
or frozen conflict.
And  Europe  still  faces  economic  challenges.  I  do 
not want to discuss that in detail, since another entire 
general debate would not be enough to lay out all the 
economic  and  trade  challenges  that  we  have  been 
dealing with, but what I can say is that Europe, whose 
share of the world’s population is between 7 and 8 per 
cent,  produces  15  to  16  per  cent  of  the  world’s  gross 
domestic  product  and  at  the  same  time  contributes 
50 per cent of the world’s spending on social welfare. 
One does not have to be an economist to see that that is 
an unsustainable situation.
Currently,  however, 
is 
confronting  the  most  complicated  challenge  that  it 
has seen since its foundation, namely, mass migration. 
Unfortunately, we have not been able to find the right 
answers — yet. That is because we have no consensus 
in Europe, or worldwide either, about the nature, size 
and volume of this mass migration. 
the  European  Union 
In that regard, I should underline that what we are 
facing  is  not  a  refugee  crisis.  It  is  much  greater  and 
more  complicated  than  that.  We  are  situated  on  the 
most travelled migration route, and I have to say that 
this  mass  migration  is  composed  of  asylum  seekers, 
economic  migrants  and  also,  unfortunately,  some 
foreign fighters.
As far as its size is concerned, this mass migration 
has  an  unlimited  supply  of  people,  and  if  we  cannot 
stop the influx soon, the problem will stay with us for 
a long time. I totally agree with the statement made by 
the Secretary-General at the start of the general debate 
to the effect that there have never been so many people 
on  the  move  as  there  are  right  now  (see  A/70/PV.13). 
There are 60 million people all over the world who have 
had to leave their homes because of armed conflicts or 
wars,  and  in  2014  we  saw  the  biggest  increase  of  all 
in  the  numbers  of  migrants  and  refugees.  There  have 
not  been  this  many  refugees,  migrants  and  internally 
displaced persons (IDPs) at one time since the Office 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees 
was established.
There are two reasons for that. One is that there has 
been a series of bad international political decisions, in 
which Europe was not the only participant. The other 
is  that  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham  (ISIS) 
has been gaining additional territory. If we are honest 
with  one  another,  we  have  had  only  limited  success 
so far in fighting ISIS. Owing to those two reasons, a 
significant  part  of  the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa 
has been destabilized. As a result, more than 8 million 
people in Iraq and more than 12.2 million in Syria now 
live on humanitarian aid. 
In Afghanistan, after the mission of the International 
Security Assistance Force concluded, the international 
military  presence  there  was  to  be  reduced  by  90  per 
cent.  There  are  already  1  million  Afghan  refugees  in 
Iran  and  1.5  million  in  Pakistan.  We  have  not  even 
mentioned the struggles in Libya and the lack of a unity 
Government there; we have not mentioned Boko Haram 
or  sub-Saharan  Africa,  where  there  are  already  more 
than 12.5 million IDPs.
In the meantime, we also need to focus on the fight 
against  climate  change,  in  which  our  success  so  far 
has  also  been  limited,  since  the  average  temperature 
on Earth has increased by almost 1 per cent since the 
last century. Global warming leads to rising sea levels, 
which lead to extreme weather conditions, which lead 
15-29946
5/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
to  droughts,  a  lack  of  food,  and  because  of  that,  to 
further migration movements. Today, there are between 
25 and 30 million people who are migrants because of 
environmental conditions, and some forecasts say that 
by 2050 there could be around 100 million. 
The  overall  picture  we  are  seeing  is  one  of  a 
destabilized region in the Middle East and North Africa, 
with 15 new armed conflicts and wars in the past five 
years and limited success in combating climate change 
and  water  shortages.  And  it  is  obvious  that  for  those 
three reasons, a mass global migration has begun.
“Global” is the most important word here. We have 
to  agree  that  this  is  a  global  challenge.  And  if  mass 
migration is a global challenge, we need a global answer, 
a  global  solution  with  global  participation.  Currently, 
it  is  Europe,  or  more  precisely  the  European  Union, 
that is bearing most of the burden of the latest waves 
of  mass  migration.  I  have  to  say  that  if  that  does  not 
change, if we cannot regain control over our borders, if 
we cannot reduce the influx and the pressure, Europe 
could be destabilized as well, first at the periphery and 
then even at the centre. I would therefore like to stress 
again that this is a global challenge that needs a global 
answer, a global solution based on global participation.
What  should  be  done?  In  principle,  instead  of 
addressing  only  the  consequences,  we  should  handle 
the root causes. That is the key issue. For that we have 
a  five-point  proposal.  First,  we  have  to  increase  our 
international efforts to combat ISIS. Secondly, we have 
to stabilize the situation in the region of North Africa 
and the Middle East. Thirdly, we have to create a system 
of world quotas for the relocation of migrants. Fourthly, 
we  have  to  continue  and  strengthen  United  Nations 
missions. And fifthly, we have to fully implement the 
Sustainable Development Goals. If we are not able to 
comply  with  those  five  requirements,  I  doubt  that  we 
will be able to address the challenges entirely.
With respect to ISIS, we need to take into account 
that,  although  we  have  put  together  a  very  broad 
military coalition, we have so far achieved only limited 
success.  ISIS  is  still  acquiring  additional  territory, 
killing people and committing brutal crimes. We have 
all seen the videos. ISIS has caused more damage to our 
common historical heritage than all armed conflicts in 
the world since the end of the Second World War. So we 
have to increase our efforts and take coordinated action. 
There also needs to be close cooperation between the 
transatlantic community and the Russian Federation.
Hungary has already done its homework. We have 
deployed  112  troops  in  Iraqi  Kurdistan.  Our  original 
mission  was  to  act  as  a  force  protection  unit  but, 
based on a request from the United States, we are now 
participating in training Peshmerga troops as well. We 
must not forget that ISIS has committed crimes against 
humanity, so we urge the International Criminal Court 
to investigate and sanction those brutal crimes properly.
My second point was that we have to create stability 
in the region of the Middle East and North Africa. The 
major challenge there is Syria, but it is obvious that if we 
fail to make peace in Syria, then the migration pressure 
on  Europe  will  not  decrease.  The  only  acceptable 
means,  and  maybe  the  only  successful  means,  is 
through  negotiations.  There  I  agree  with  the  German 
Chancellor, who said that we have to ensure maximum 
political  inclusiveness.  That  might  be  the  successful 
way to settle the conflict in Syria. That returns us to 
the critical point that there will be no forward progress 
and  no  possibility  for  resolving  the  crisis  in  Syria 
unless there is agreement and cooperation between the 
transatlantic community and the Russian Federation. 
If we study the nature of mass migration, we see that 
migrants are usually transported by human traffickers. 
That  is  why  I  urge  the  international  community  to 
take  international  action  to  harmonize  and  tighten  its 
legislation against human trafficking.
Thirdly, there should be a system of world quotas. 
For that reason, we ask the Secretary-General to prepare 
a  proposal  to  ensure  that  we  address  the  challenge 
globally and that all major players in global politics and 
economics do their part to share the burden.
My fourth point was that we have to maintain and 
increase  the  efforts  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
missions. If we are successful in peacekeeping missions 
and if we are capable of creating peace in unstable parts 
of the world, then we can hope to successfully handle 
the migration crisis. Hungarian troops have taken part 
in  missions  in  Cyprus,  Western  Sahara  and  Lebanon. 
We  support  those  missions,  and  we  urge  the  United 
Nations to increase its efforts in that regard. However, 
until  long-term  solutions  are  in  place,  we  Europeans 
will have to take effective short-term measures to avoid 
becoming  unstable  ourselves  as  a  result  of  the  heavy 
pressure.
Our first task in that regard is to regain control over 
our borders. If we cannot regain control over Europe’s 
borders, we will not be able to stop the influx of migrants 
6/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
and  we  will  be  defenceless.  It  is  our  responsibilty  to 
establish  a  joint  European  Union  force  to  protect  the 
external  borders  of  the  European  Union.  Our  second 
task is that we must pay tribute to all those countries, 
such  as  Turkey,  Jordan  and  Lebanon,  that  have  been 
bearing enormous burdens to properly supply and treat 
refugees. We cannot, of course, expect them to bear that 
burden on their own. They are now caring for hundreds 
of thousands or even millions of migrants and refugees. 
So we propose that the European Union take over the 
financing of the refugee camps and, if more camps are 
necessary, then we must finance them. Here we would 
like to ask the Secretary-General to consider how the 
United Nations can increase its efforts to help Turkey, 
Jordan  and  Lebanon  and  how  it  can  share  the  burden 
relating to migrants and refugees.
Finally, I would like to draw members’ attention to 
the danger of anti-Muslim policies spreading throughout 
Europe or even beyond. We must stress that the Muslim 
faith has nothing to do with the root causes of this mass 
migration. I come from Hungary, a Christian country, 
and a Christian approach does not tolerate anti-Muslim 
policies. We honour and respect the Muslim faith, and 
we would like to cooperate, as we must, in addressing 
the root causes of mass migration.
To summarize, mass migration is a global challenge. 
We  must  respond  globally.  All  major  players  must 
contribute.  The  burden  must  be  shared.  The  United 
Nations  should  play  a  leading  role  in  that  initiative. 
We are ready to work together according to the agreed 
Sustainable Development Goals, which call for action 
to ensure that migration is safe, orderly and regulated.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Osman  Mohammed  Saleh,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the State of Eritrea.
Mr. Saleh (Eritrea): It is my pleasure, at the outset, 
to  warmly  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session. I also wish to extend my deep appreciation to 
your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Sam Kutesa, for 
his commendable efforts in conducting the business of 
the sixty-ninth session of the Assembly.
Seventy years after the birth of the United Nations, 
with  its  promise  of  peace,  justice  and  development 
for all and its call for all nations to act in concert for 
the  common  good,  it  is  undeniable,  however,  that  we 
continue  to  live  in  an  unfair  and  unequal  world  —  a 
world  where  conflicts  and  wars  rage,  where  extreme 
poverty persists in the midst of plenty, where children 
die from easily preventable diseases and where justice 
is routinely trampled.
The  United  Nations  is  itself  a  reflection  of  the 
unfair, unequal and undemocratic global order. In the 
United Nations, the overwhelming majority of Member 
States are marginalized. The General Assembly, which 
should  be  the  most  powerful  organ,  is  bereft  of  real 
power  and  influence.  Power  and  decision-making  are 
dominated by a few among the few. Two decades of talk 
to  reform  the  Organization  have  yielded  zero  results. 
The  resistance  of  those  who  believe  that  they  benefit 
from the current configuration is so stiff and the ranks 
of those who seek change are so divided by approaches 
driven by narrow national interests that the enthusiasm 
for reform is giving way to a disquieting paralysis.
Yet  all  Member  States,  peoples  and  political  and 
social  forces  that  thirst  for  peace,  justice,  equitable 
socioeconomic  development  and  the  protection  and 
enhancement of the environment must not give up. We 
need to persist in our efforts to rebuild and revitalize the 
United  Nations.  We  need  to  strengthen  our  solidarity 
and  defend  the  time-tested  principles  of  the  equal 
sovereignty of nations, respect for territorial integrity, 
peaceful  coexistence,  the  right  of  nations  to  choose 
their social and economic path of development, respect 
for  the  dignity  and  rights  of  citizens  and  migrants, 
and  fidelity  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
international  law.  We  need  to  work  and  cooperate 
at  the  national,  regional  and  global  levels  to  achieve 
sustainable and equitable development, a lofty goal that 
underpins peace and social justice.
We  need  to  fight  to  avert  an  environmental 
catastrophe  that  awaits  humankind  and  threatens 
human civilization. That will require more than human 
ingenuity and advances in science and technology. We 
must realize that there can be no technological fix to the 
environmental challenge. It will require radical change 
away  from  economic  and  social  systems  based  on 
greed, the maximization of profits for the few, massive 
inequality, and unsustainable and unhealthy patterns of 
consumption and gross wastage.
Eritrea  is  committed  to  striving  for  a  fair,  just, 
truly  representative  and  effective  United  Nations, 
because it was and still is a victim of the United Nations 
and the Powers that have dominated the Organization. 
Six decades ago, we were denied our inalienable right 
to  self-determination  and  independence.  For  three 
15-29946
7/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
decades,  we  were  savagely  bombed  from  the  air  and 
the  ground,  with  the  aim  of  crushing  our  liberation 
struggle;  and  today  we  are  being  subjected  to  unfair 
and  illegitimate  sanctions  and  baseless  accusations. 
The United Nations and its Security Council continue 
to countenance the illegal occupation of our sovereign 
territory  in  violation  of  international  law  and  several 
Security Council resolutions.
Despite that hostility and injustice, Eritrea achieved 
independence  by  dint  of  a  heroic  struggle  against 
tremendous odds. Today, Eritrea is making remarkable 
progress in building a nation based on citizenship and 
inclusiveness and respect for human dignity and rights. 
It is peaceful, stable, secure and harmonious, achieving 
unity in diversity, with its people animated by a common 
struggle  and  committed  to  a  common  future.  It  has 
avoided the pitfalls of sectarianism, radicalization and 
terrorism that have infected the surrounding region and 
many other areas in the world.
education, 
health, 
prioritizing 
Mr.  Alyemany  (Yemen),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
On  another  front,  Eritrea  is  building  a  solid 
basis  for  sustainable  development  with  social  justice 
by 
agriculture, 
industrialization, infrastructure, science and technology, 
all  within  a  framework  of  regional  cooperation  and 
integration in the Horn of Africa and the Gulf region 
across the Red Sea. Eritrea welcomes the adoption of 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  contained  in  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1), which are in accord with its development vision 
and priorities, and is determined to achieve them ahead 
of the 2030 deadline.
Maintaining  its  focus  on  development,  Eritrea  is 
fighting human trafficking and is working to stabilize 
illegal migration and give youth and women adequate 
opportunities to pursue a high quality of life and build 
their nation. Eritrea is also making its contribution to 
regional  peace,  stability  and  security  in  the  Red  Sea 
region  and  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Eritrea  sees  its  own 
efforts  to  promote  peace,  justice,  development  and 
environmental protection as part of the global struggle 
for  a  better,  fairer  and  more  equitable  world  and  for 
a  strong,  effective  and  truly  representative  United 
Nations.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now give 
the floor to His Excellency Mr. François Louncény Fall, 
Minister of State and Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
Guineans Abroad of the Republic of Guinea.
Mr.  Fall  (Guinea)  (spoke  in  French):  Seventy 
years ago, the United Nations was born with the aim of 
creating a world of peace, security and economic and 
social progress. Transformed by those noble ideals, we 
have  together  extinguished  many  hotbeds  of  tension, 
sown the seeds of trust among peoples, restored hope 
to the people and paved the way for prosperity for all 
nations.  Beyond  those  undeniable  achievements,  the 
state  of  the  world  motivates  us  to  consider  the  way 
forward  to  assure  our  people  of  true  tranquillity  that 
will  enable  them  to  thrive  in  harmony  in  a  safer  and 
more equitable environment.
Indeed,  peace,  security  and  human  rights  remain 
the  foundation  of  our  prosperity.  We  must,  therefore, 
recognize  that  the  prosperity  we  wish  to  share  is 
seriously  threatened  by  new  barriers  to  stability  and 
universal progress. Violence is resurfacing, driven by 
extremism and intolerance. Development for all remains 
a struggle owing to entrenched extreme poverty and its 
corollaries. Exclusion, a source of frustration, threatens 
democracy  and  good  governance.  There  are  so  many 
aspects that feed the tragic migration flows  — a true 
bleeding  of  the  productive  forces  of  the  South  that 
requires an urgent, comprehensive and lasting response.
Our  commitment  to  peacekeeping  materialized 
first in the Middle East, but that region is today once 
again  being  subjected  to  shocks  that  inflict  the  worst 
sort of suffering on its peoples by denying them their 
fundamental rights to freedom, dignity and well-being.
Palestine is still occupied. Its people should enjoy 
all their rights within the limits of a State with secure 
and  internationally  recognized  borders,  with  East 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  We  urge  the  international 
community 
the 
resumption of negotiations between Israel and the State 
of Palestine, which are fated to live side by side. That 
is the way to ensure security in that part of the world, 
which is plunged into the throes of a many-sided crisis 
with tragic humanitarian consequences.
to  do  everything  possible 
for 
Africa,  which  is  gradually  emerging  from  its 
stagnation  to  enjoy  renewed  growth,  is  investing  in 
mechanisms  for  capacity-building 
the  defence 
and  security  sectors  in  the  framework  of  responsible 
autonomy for the stability of its States. It goes without 
saying  that  our  efforts  will  seek  to  eliminate  all  the 
hotbeds of tension that stand in the way of democratic 
in 
8/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
progress at a time when we are witnessing a flare-up of 
terrorism whose ramifications from now on will leave 
no  region  untouched.  We  must  find  the  ways  and  the 
means to check that scourge, which strikes our peoples 
at  their  very  core,  attacks  our  national  symbols  and 
leads to profound humanitarian crises.
to  defining 
It  is  clear  that  this  wager  can  be  won  only  with 
a  participatory,  concerted  approach  on  the  part  of 
our  peoples  and  countries 
inclusive 
development  policies  and  programmes  as  a  bulwark 
against  marginalization,  which  causes  frustration 
and  withdrawal.  This  wager  also  depends  on  our 
determination  to  eliminate  economic  inequalities  and 
social disparities in order to maintain global stability. 
The  challenge  is  therefore  to  dedicate  democratic 
culture as a guarantor of human rights and fundamental 
freedoms  as  the  foundations  of  more  just  and  more 
equitable international relations.
We  have  just  adopted  the  post-2015  development 
agenda,  which  integrates  the  economic,  social  and 
environmental dimensions of sustainable development. 
Achieving  the  17  Goals  of  that  ambitious  programme 
will  clearly  demand  the  mobilization  of  resources 
sufficient to guarantee, inter alia, decent jobs for young 
people and to equip women with the skills necessary for 
their full potential and empowerment. 
However,  that  will  be  possible  only  in  a  healthy, 
protected  environment.  That  is  why  we  hope  that  the 
upcoming twenty-first session of the Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change  in  Paris  will  lead  to  a  binding 
agreement that ensures the survival of our planet. We 
urge all Member States and partners to contribute to the 
Green Climate Fund.
Prosperity  cannot  be  built  on  instability.  The 
international community has the obligation to assume 
the  responsibilty  for  making  our  planet  a  safe  place 
where the creative genius of humankind can flourish. 
It is up to us, under the umbrella of global partnership, 
to  strengthen  our  collective  action  to  spread  peace 
across the universe in order to crystallize the ideals that 
inspired  the  creation  of  our  Organization.  To  do  that, 
we must adapt our vision of the management of global 
affairs to the current reality. 
It  cannot  be  said  often  enough:  the  international 
system must be reformed. It must allow us all to fully 
participate in the world’s evolution. The time has come 
to  make    the  United  Nations  the  springboard  for  the 
emergence and spread of a truly global society. The time 
has come to turn this prestigious place into a mold for 
shared solidarity. It is high time to turn this marvellous 
tool  into  a  temple  for  the  promotion  of  peace,  equity 
and justice.
Guinea remains convinced of the need to strengthen 
the role of the General Assembly and to democratize the 
Security Council. That is why we welcome the initiative 
of France and Mexico to limit the use of the right of veto 
in cases of mass atrocities. Still, that measure aimed at 
preserving peace and respect for human rights must be 
universal, equitable and applicable to all regions of the 
world.
Détente, a key concept in international relations, is 
indispensable to the global equilibrium. The peaceful 
settlement  of  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue  and  the  long-
awaited  rapprochement  between  the  United  States  of 
America  and  Cuba  that  should  lead  to  the  lifting  of 
the embargo constitute important steps in establishing 
a  climate  of  peace  and  security  conducive  to  the 
promotion  of  mutually  advantageous  cooperation. 
History has demonstrated once again that by choosing 
the virtues of negotiation and dialogue over the use of 
force  it  is  possible  to  work  through  the  most  serious 
differences.
Our firm belief in the efficiency of multilateralism 
remains unshakeable. It is the only option for addressing 
the  ever  more  numerous  and  complex  challenges  that 
stand in the way of the progress our peoples so deeply 
yearn for. Our country will spare no effort to participate 
in that uplifting endeavour, above all at a moment when 
Guinea is joining the democratic dynamic by holding 
a  transparent  presidential  election  on  11  October. 
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  commend  the  leading 
role of the United Nations and all our partners in the 
dialogue process that led to the signing on 20 August of 
the comprehensive agreement between the presidential 
movement  and  the  opposition.  For  our  country,  this 
election  will  mark  a  new  beginning  towards  genuine 
economic and social development.
The President returned to the Chair.
Moreover,  Guinea  welcomes  the  goodwill  of  the 
international  community,  which  has  consistently 
supported  us  in  our  efforts  to  realize  the  legitimate 
hopes  of  our  people.  The  exceptional  mobilization  of 
the  international  community  in  the  fight  to  eradicate 
the  Ebola  epidemic,  along  with  its  commitment  to 
15-29946
9/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
supporting  our  reconstruction  programme,  is  part  of 
that spirit of solidarity. 
That 
is  why,  as  we  express  our  warmest 
congratulations  to  you,  Mr.  President,  we  already 
comprehend the immense task that awaits you, for which 
Guinea will provide unstinting support. You will surely 
benefit  from  the  positive  actions  of  your  predecessor, 
Mr. Sam Kutesa, whose dedication and accomplishment 
gave  greater  impetus  to  our  collective  commitment. 
Along  with  the  activity  of  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon,  who  has  earned  our  congratulations  and 
encouragement because of his invaluable contribution 
to 
actions, 
Mr.    President,  will  help  to  make  the  United  Nations 
more responsive to the legitimate hopes of humankind.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 
Ms. Francine Baron, Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
Caribbean  Community  Affairs  of  the  Commonwealth 
of Dominica.
strengthening  multilateralism,  your 
Ms. Baron (Dominica): Several weeks ago, as we 
prepared to address this historic seventieth session of 
the  General  Assembly  on  the  post-2015  development 
agenda and in the general debate, we pondered issues 
of  significance  to  our  country,  our  region,  small 
island  developing  States  (SIDS)  and  our  planet.  We 
decided then, as we have done in the past, that we must 
highlight the challenges brought about by the increasing 
concentration  of  greenhouse  gases  in  the  atmosphere 
and  the  resulting  changes  in  global  climate.  That  is 
a  major  threat  to  our  planet,  with  a  disproportionate 
impact on SIDS.
Our  concerns  have  been  magnified 
since 
27 August, when Tropical Storm Erika brought with it 
up to 18 inches of rain in 16 hours in Dominica, with 
a  concentration  of  heavy  continuous  rainfall  over  a 
five-hour  period.  The  intensity  of  the  rainfall  led  to 
rapid flash flooding and numerous landslides in several 
communities.  Dominica  was  severely  impacted,  with 
13  people  confirmed  dead  and  17  still  missing,  while 
roads,  bridges,  houses,  public  buildings  and  the  main 
airport were devastated. Two communities in the south 
of Dominica had to be evacuated, displacing hundreds 
of families.
According  to  an  initial  assessment  conducted  by 
the  World  Bank,  the  Government  of  Dominica  and 
other  partners,  Tropical  Storm  Erika  caused  losses 
and  damage  to  infrastructure  in  the  amount  of  up  to 
1.3 billion East Caribbean dollars, or $483 million. In 
less  than  24  hours,  90  per  cent  of  Dominica’s  gross 
domestic  product  was  wiped  out,  and  over  7,000 
people  were  severely  affected.  Most  of  the  damage 
was sustained in the transport, housing and agriculture 
sectors. 
Owing  to  the  magnitude  of  the  damage  and  the 
limited resources of our country, we had to depend on 
support  from  outside  Dominica  to  provide  immediate 
relief  to  those  who  were  affected.  The  outpouring  of 
support  allowed  us  to  bring  emergency  relief  to  all 
people  in  a  timely  manner.  On  behalf  of  the  people 
and  Government  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Dominica, 
and on my own behalf, I wish to extend our profound 
gratitude  to  all  the  countries,  governmental  and 
non-governmental  organizations  and  Dominicans,  at 
home and abroad, for their tremendous support during 
our time of need.
We  also  thank  those  partners  that  have  pledged 
their commitment to workingYay!! with us during the 
rebuilding  of  a  stronger  and  more  climate-resilient 
Dominica. My Government and people will forever be 
grateful to those who extended the hand of friendship to 
us. With the help of God, the international community 
and  the  resolve  and  resilience  of  the  Government 
and  people  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Dominica,  we 
will  build  a  stronger  and  more  resilient  Dominica.  In 
building  a  better  and  stronger  Dominica,  we  will,  of 
necessity,  have  to  factor  into  our  constructions  and 
settlements  measures  that  will  provide  resilience  and 
adaptation to the impact of climate change.
We  therefore  expect  that  replacing  and  restoring 
damaged  infrastructure  will  be  more  expensive  than 
it  has  been  in  the  past.  That  extra  cost  undermines 
our  progress  inY  achieving  sustainable  development, 
because  of  the  constant  need  to  re-allocate  resources 
from nationally identified priority areas to address the 
challenges — challenges brought about, to a large extent, 
by climate change. Those are factors that contribute to 
the high debt burden of small island developing States 
such as Dominica.
At times like these, in order to respond effectively 
to the disaster, we urgently need the assistance of the 
international community, to make available, in a timely 
manner, access to grants, concessionary financing and 
development assistance. That is of critical importance 
to  ensure  that  the  gains  we  have  made  in  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  are  not  reversed 
and  that  we  are  able  to  meet  the  agreed  Sustainable 
10/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
Development  Goals  (SDGs).  Beyond  the  immediate 
present,  the  Commonwealth  of  Dominica  calls  for  an 
international  natural-disaster-risk  fund 
to  provide 
financial  resources  to  small  island  developing  States 
that have been impacted by natural disasters. In the case 
of the Caribbean States, that could be in collaboration 
with or an extension to the catastrophic risk fund that 
exists in the Caribbean Development Bank. We propose 
that  that  special  natural-disaster-risk  fund  should  be 
capitalized by the annex I parties to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, other major 
greenhouse-gas  emitters  and  voluntary  contributions 
by other countries.
Over  the  past  decade,  the  impact  of  climate 
change  has  wreaked  havoc  on  Caribbean  SIDS.  In 
2004,  Hurricane  Ivan,  a  category  3  system,  wiped 
out  twice  the  value  of  the  gross  domestic  product  of 
Grenada — approximately $1 billion — and left 18,000 
people  without  shelter,  food  and  personal  belongings. 
On  24  December  2013,  we  were  violently  reminded 
of the impact of slow-moving weather systems on the 
lives of our Caribbean people. Dominica, Saint Lucia, 
and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines were set back by 
3.4 per cent, 1.4 per cent and 12.8 per cent of their gross 
domestic products, respectively. 
We  in  the  Caribbean  have  been  on  the  receiving 
end  of  the  impact  of  climate  change  for  decades.  We 
therefore  know  from  our  own  experiences  that  the 
impact of climate change represents a real and present 
danger  to  the  existence  of  small  island  States  like 
Dominica. We are living the effects of climate change. 
Even  as  recently  as  yesterday,  our  sister  Caribbean 
island  country  of  the  Commonwealth  of  the  Bahamas 
was  impacted  by  Hurricane  Joaquin.  We  stand  in 
solidarity  with  the  Government  and  people  of  the 
Bahamas, as they struggle to deal with the devastation 
that it has caused.
As  we  move  closer  to  the  twenty-first  session  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  (COP21) 
later  this  year,  we  trust  that  all  States  parties  are 
heeding  the  warnings  of  the  scientific  community 
and the plea of those of us who experience the impact 
of  climate  change  on  a  daily  basis,  and  that  they  are 
preparing  to  make  serious  commitments  to  reducing 
global warming. It will be crucial at COP21 to put in 
place a system that makes possible the achievement of 
the not-more-than 1.5°C goal, by agreeing to the highest 
possible  levels  of  mitigation,  ambition,  finance  and  a 
very  rigorous  system  for  transparency,  complemented 
by a compliance regime.
However, while such commitments are commendable 
and  should  reduce  and  hopefully  reverse  the  trend  of 
increasing global mean temperature, the slow onset of 
events of climate change will continue to have severe 
impacts on developing countries. We therefore call for 
the establishment at COP21 of a new loss and damage 
mechanism  that  will  take  into  account  the  impact 
of  climate  change  and  provide  resources  for  SIDS  to 
respond to those challenges.
The  recently  concluded  Summit  on  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  laid  out  a  highly  robust  and 
people-centred framework that we must all commit to 
implementing for the sake of a better tomorrow for our 
citizens  and  future  generations.  We  must  participate 
and play our individual and collective roles in ensuring 
that  all  17  of  the  Agenda’s  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  and  its  169  targets  are  not  merely  aspirational 
but also achievable. We were gratified to see several of 
our priority issues reflected in the text, such as a need 
to build resilience and to conserve and sustainably use 
oceans  and  seas;  food  security;  water  and  sanitation; 
affordable,  reliable  and  sustainable  energy;  crime; 
climate  change;  and  sustainable  consumption  and 
production, among others.
It is up to all of us, individually and collectively, to 
ensure the realization of the SDGs. The Commonwealth 
of Dominica is therefore encouraged by the strides that 
small  island  developing  States  are  making  towards 
the  attainment  of  SDG  7,  on  affordable  and  clean 
energy.  Just  a  few  days  ago,  on  27  September,  SIDS 
demonstrated their leadership, by creating the first-ever 
intergovernmental  organization  for  SIDS,  the  Small 
Island Developing States Sustainable Energy Initiative 
(SIDS  DOCK).  The  statute  came  into  force  with  a 
membership  of  32,  creating  a  sustainable  energy  and 
climate-resilient organization. SIDS DOCK is intended 
to  provided  a  collective  voice,  financial  leverage  and 
implementation mechanisms to transform our national 
energy sectors into catalysts for sustainable low-carbon 
economic  development  and  help  us  meet  the  urgent 
need to mitigate, adapt and build resilience to climate 
change.  The  Government  of  the  Commonwealth  of 
Dominica is proud to have had the opportunity to serve 
as the Chair of the steering committee responsible for 
the  establishment  of  this  first-ever  intergovernmental 
organization of SIDS.
15-29946
11/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
On behalf of the States members of SIDS DOCK, we 
wish to express our gratitude to our partners, Denmark 
and Japan, which have made our initiative possible. We 
also  extend  our  thanks  to  the  Government  of  Austria 
and  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
for  being  genuine  partners  in  the  spirit  of  the  SIDS 
Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  (SAMOA)  Pathway 
and  establishing  the  earliest  centres  for  renewable 
energy  and  energy  efficiency  in  the  Caribbean  and 
Pacific. We also thank the Government of Sweden for 
its support for the development of the project pipeline. 
We look forward to their continued partnership in that 
and other initiatives aimed at achieving the SDGs.
SIDS  are  equally  concerned  about  sustainably 
utilizing  and  conserving  local  resources,  such  as  our 
oceans,  seas  and  marine  resources,  for  the  benefit  of 
all our people. SDG 14 creates an opportunity for SIDS 
to have more control over the vast marine area, which 
when combined is six times larger than the land mass of 
the European Union. For small island States — or, more 
appropriately, large ocean States — we are the oceans. 
We therefore endorse the We Are the Ocean initiative 
being developed and co-chaired by the Marshall Islands 
and  Grenada,  with  the  Commonwealth  of  Dominica 
playing  a  major  coordinating  role.  As  a  response  to 
that  need,  a  few  days  ago,  at  the  annual  meeting  of 
the  Clinton  Global  Initiative,  SIDS  DOCK,  together 
with  partners,  launched  the  Blue  Guardians.  We  look 
forward to participating in that initiative.
The  Commonwealth  of  Dominica  is  encouraged 
by the emphasis that the Addis Ababa Action Agenda 
has placed on the mobilization of support for the post-
2015 development agenda. A combination of financing 
modalities and sources is essential to assist developing 
countries  meet  their  development  goals  by  providing 
access  to  essential  public  services,  ending  hunger, 
reducing poverty and enhancing the lives of all people. 
Dominica  is  therefore  committed  to  and  supports  the 
call for us to incorporate sustainable development and 
the pursuit of equity, including gender equality, women 
and  girls’  empowerment,  and  social  inclusion,  in  our 
domestic  policies.  Those  policies  are  consistent  with 
the goals my Government has been committed to and 
has been promoting since the dawn of the century.
Our  efforts  notwithstanding,  middle-income  SIDS 
like  Dominica  are  a  special  category  that  must  be 
recognized  and  dealt  with  in  a  manner  that  reflects 
our  realities.  The  measure  of  per  capita  income 
as  a  qualifier  for  determining  access  to  official 
development  assistance  and  concessionary  financing 
distorts  the  true  situation  of  SIDS  and  ignores  our 
special vulnerabilities. The public debt stock is another 
essential indicator that must be factored in when the true 
state of middle-income SIDS is considered. High debt 
overhang makes it difficult for SIDS to provide essential 
public services. That is compounded by the fragility of 
our  economies  and  the  constant  threat  and  impact  of 
natural disasters, which make us especially vulnerable. 
In  fact,  according  to  a  recent  report  by  the  United 
Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and 
the Caribbean, it is estimated that the economic cost of 
natural disasters in Caribbean countries over the 2000-
2014 period exceeded $30.7 billion.
Furthermore,  I  am  advised  that  at  least  40  per 
cent  of  the  debt  burden  of  Caribbean  States  is  due  to 
debt  incurred  in  responding  to  natural  disasters.  A 
single  major  natural  disaster  can  set  back  one  of  our 
small  islands  for  more  than  a  decade  by  obliterating 
the  country’s  gross  domestic  product  overnight.  The 
recent  cases  of  Grenada  and  Dominica  illustrate  that 
point  vividly.  In  order  for  financing  for  sustainable 
development  to  be  effective,  durable  and  genuine, 
there  must  be  partnerships  based  on  mutual  respect. 
Development  partners,  especially  intergovernmental 
agencies  and  financial  institutions,  must  be  more 
responsive to the needs of SIDS. Interventions therefore 
must  reflect  the  aspirations  of  the  people  and  be 
informed by genuine participation and local ownership.
The  traditional  North-South  relationship  must  be 
reset  to  embrace  collaboration  and  cooperation  rather 
than  prescription  and  dictation.  The  new  approach 
should  be  enhanced  by  South-South  and  triangular 
cooperation.  We  therefore  encourage  countries  in  the 
South that have the means to do so to support South-
South  and  triangular  cooperation,  to  build  essential 
public  infrastructure,  to  provide  financing  and  to 
participate  in  science  and  technology  innovation  and 
capacity-building.
The  People’s  Republic  of  China,  for  example, 
has  emerged  as  a  leader  in  South-South  cooperation. 
The  South  has  been  benefiting  from  China’s  role  in 
economic  and  social  development  through  bilateral 
cooperation. We commend the efforts by the People’s 
Republic of China for its role in establishing the Asian 
Infrastructure  Investment  Bank,  thereby  creating  a 
multilateral  platform  for  South-South  cooperation  as 
an extension to its excellent bilateral cooperation. Our 
cooperation  with  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  has 
12/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
brought  about  major  improvements  in  our  country’s 
infrastructure, education, health care, sports, national 
security  and  agriculture.  We  thank  China  for  its 
contribution to the people of Dominica.
South-South  cooperation 
in  some  cases  has 
created economic space for our countries to implement 
infrastructure  and  social  programmes  for  the  benefit 
of  our  people.  A  case  in  point  is  the  PetroCaribe 
arrangement by the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, 
in which Latin American and Caribbean countries are 
provided with a reliable supply of oil and oil products 
under  favourable  terms  and  conditions.  That  spirit 
of  solidarity  is  a  shining  example  of  South-South 
cooperation. The leadership of Venezuela has also led 
to  the  creation  of  the  Bolivarian  Alternative  for  the 
Peoples  of  Our  America  (ALBA).  ALBA  has  funded 
and  continues  to  fund  development  programmes  in 
agriculture,  infrastructure,  education  and  health  care 
in Dominica and its other member States, especially in 
the Caribbean.
Similarly, the Republic of Cuba has been a leader 
in  South-South  and  triangular  cooperation.  Cuba  has 
provided tremendous support to countries in the Latin 
America and Caribbean region and as far away as Africa, 
thanks to its vast pool of human resources, especially in 
health care and education. At the same time, Cuba has 
provided capacity-building and technology transfer in 
essential areas.
We applaud the actions taken by President Barack 
Obama  to  normalize  relations  between  Cuba  and  the 
United  States.  The  removal  of  Cuba  from  the  United 
States  list  of  countries  that  sponsor  terrorism  is  an 
endorsement of the call that Dominica, the Caribbean 
Community and the majority of the States Members of 
the  United  Nations  have  been  making  for  almost  two 
decades. Those steps are undoubtedly steps in the right 
direction, that is, towards the full integration of Cuba 
into the international, economic, financial and trading 
systems.  We  appeal  to  the  legislative  branch  of  the 
United States Government to allow President Obama to 
complete the process by lifting all sanctions on Cuba.
Almost  70  years  ago,  on  24  October  1945,  the 
United  Nations  came  into  existence  when  29  nations 
ratified the Charter of the United Nations. The impact 
of two major wars in short succession had devastated the 
world, leaving millions dead. The world vowed “never 
again”. The world of today is far different than it was 
70 years ago. There are far more Member States and the 
balance  of  power  has  shifted  slightly,  with  the  South 
playing  a  greater  role.  Human  development  has  been 
unprecedented,  moving  more  people  out  of  poverty, 
and  yet  so  much  more  needs  to  be  done.  We  have 
placed our planet in peril from the existential threat of 
climate change. The rise of terrorism and radicalization 
throughout the world, especially in Iraq and Syria, is an 
attack on peace and security everywhere.
We  therefore  must  resolve  to  enhance  the  role  of 
the United Nations in resolving matters that go beyond 
borders and affect all of humankind and our planet. That 
requires changes to the working methods of the General 
Assembly and a more representative Security Council 
to  reflect  today’s  realities.  We  must  continue  to  call 
for the protection of our planet. We must listen to and 
heed the cries of those who are suffering throughout the 
world. We must create and adopt policies that address 
the  pressing  needs  of  the  most  vulnerable  among  us. 
Above  all  else,  we  must  continue  to  work  to  resolve 
the  issues  that  threaten  the  peace  and  stability  of  our 
nations.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 
Excellency Ms. Dunya Maumoon, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Maldives.
Ms.  Maumoon  (Maldives):  The  first  three  words 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  reads  “We  the 
peoples”. Those words make it clear that human life is 
at the heart of the Charter of the United Nations. It must 
remain the key principle guiding our work.
This year, we mark the seventieth anniversary of the 
adoption of the Charter, 70 years since the establishment 
of the United Nations. There is not a more opportune 
time to ask ourselves, “Have we served ‘we the peoples’ 
well?” The answer to that question is probably “yes”. 
I  say  that  because  succeeding  generations  have  been 
saved from the scourge of inter-State war. 
Yet we remain unable to counter intra-State conflict. 
Our faith in fundamental human rights is reaffirmed in 
principle, yet the equal rights of men and women and of 
nations large and small are ignored. The rule of law and 
the values of good governance are advocated for some 
but ignored for others. We promised to promote social 
progress and better standards of life, and, yes, extreme 
poverty has been reduced significantly; more children 
than  ever  are  going  to  school.  Yet  the  gap  between 
the  rich  and  the  poor  is  widening,  and  ignorance  and 
intolerance are rampant. The Charter failed to recognize 
15-29946
13/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
the environment as an issue of importance, and we fail 
the environment every day.
Despite all that, the United Nations is the best hope 
for humankind. And it must remain relevant. If we want 
the United Nations to become more resilient, face the 
emerging challenges of our time, give hope to the many 
who perish in dire situations, inspire courage in the face 
of adversity and protect the rights of nations regardless 
of size, then the United Nations must be reformed.
Last  week,  we  adopted  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1),  which 
recognizes at its core that development must be holistic, 
that  poverty  is  a  multidimensional  problem,  and  that 
what matters is the human being, whose rights must be 
protected and promoted. Yet here in the United Nations 
we  remain  trapped  in  silos,  hiding  away  behind  the 
excuse  of  mandates.  Why  is  it  that  the  only  issue  the 
Security Council can discuss is guns and bombs, that 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  cannot  discuss  war 
and  peace,  that  development  and  war  cannot  have  a 
human rights dimension, that specific issues have to be 
confined to a specific body?
We believe that every problem can and should be 
looked  at  from  every  angle.  That  is  the  only  way  of 
responding to crises in a sustainable manner. In the real 
world, neither real problems nor real solutions fit neatly 
into separate compartments. A new way of approaching 
the global challenges of our time is necessary, so let us 
start organizing our work differently. 
One important way of doing that is to redefine the 
concept of security: to include all issues that threaten 
all of humankind, including climate change. For us in 
the  Maldives,  climate  change  is  a  security  threat.  It 
damages  our  economy,  deprives  us  of  our  rights,  our 
land and our way of life and threatens the very existence 
of our nation. When young children play by the beach, 
the waves lapping at their feet, when a fisherman looks 
to the sea for the day’s catch and when we feel the cool 
breeze of the ocean caressing us, it seems inconceivable 
that those same waters may become our watery grave.
The  Maldives  is  ready  to  act.  We  have  always 
been the first in line. Together with other small island 
developing States (SIDS), we have taken urgent action 
to keep the rise of global temperature below 1.5°C . We 
are  reducing  our  emissions.  We  are  working  in  good 
faith towards a legally binding agreement in Paris this 
year. If we, the smallest can act, why cannot the biggest?
The  health  of  the  oceans  is  another  issue  that 
demands  attention.  The  oceans  are  intimately  linked 
with our lives and livelihoods. Oceans and their wealth 
are the drivers of our economy, the source of our food 
and the backbone of our heritage and traditions. Unless 
we  sustain  the  wealth  of  the  oceans,  we  can  achieve 
nothing.  That  is  why  the  Maldives  banned  turtle 
poaching  in  the  early  eighties,  declared  a  biosphere 
reserve  in  2012  and  made  its  entire  area  a  shark 
sanctuary. We understand the value of our oceans and 
all  the  treasures  they  contain.  Our  oceans  are  home 
to  some  of  the  most  valuable  marine  habitats  in  the 
world, yet the illicit exploitation of natural resources, 
maritime piracy and other criminal activities threaten 
and undermine the peace and security of our countries.
Building the resilience of our people must remain 
at the centre of all our efforts, abroad and at home. That 
is  why  President  Abdulla  Yameen  Abdul  Gayoom’s 
Government has embarked on a national development 
programme  based  on  empowerment,  especially  of  the 
young  and  of  children  and  women.  We  believe  that 
investing in people is the best way to promote human 
rights, to guarantee a brighter future for the generations 
to come and to ensure that the democratic gains we have 
made are consolidated and further enhanced. 
The Maldives is a nation that is governed by the rule 
of law. Our strong commitment to upholding the rule of 
law will continue, regardless of a person’s position in 
society and even in cases where it is most inconvenient 
to do so. I can assure Member States that we will not 
fail in that endeavour.
The United Nations rose from the ashes of war and 
destruction  at  a  time  when  swarms  of  refugees  were 
crossing  borders  and  seas,  leaving  everything  behind 
to seek safety and security and to save their own lives 
and their children’s. We have gone through those times 
and built a better, more integrated, more tolerant world. 
Fear of the other did not overtake humankind. 
Today,  as  we  see  similar  pictures  of  girls  and 
boys,  women  and  men  seeking  safety  from  war  and 
certain death, I urge everyone to show compassion. A 
good start can be made by using the right term: it is a 
refugee, not a migrant, crisis. The refugees are running 
away from senseless violence — barbarism that is being 
carried  out  by  terrorist  groups  in  the  name  of  Islam. 
The Maldives condemns the acts of those groups, which 
are not only un-Islamic but also anti-Islamic. They are 
fuelling  the  rise  of  Islamophobia  around  the  world. 
14/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
The international community must not let those groups 
redefine our beautiful religion of peace, tolerance and 
compassion.
We thought that apartheid had been dismantled, yet 
Israel pursues apartheid policies in occupied Palestine 
and  the  world  remains  indifferent.  Three  days  ago, 
we  witnessed  the  raising  of  the  Palestinian  flag  here 
at the United Nations. That was indeed a historic step, 
but if Palestine were to attain full membership in the 
United Nations that would be a much more significant 
step. A permanent solution would involve the complete 
withdrawal of Israel and the establishment of the State 
of Palestine, with East Jerusalem at its capital, within 
the 1967 borders.
The small island developing States of the world are 
different from the large States. We face different kinds 
of  challenges  that  require  very  different  responses. 
That is a fact that everyone now recognizes. However, 
the  international  architecture,  including  the  United 
Nations  system,  is  not  designed  to  accommodate  the 
unique features of small States. That needs to change, 
and changes need to happen now. We, the small States, 
do not want to be defined only by our vulnerabilities. 
We are ready to be part of the solution. In Samoa last 
year, the SIDS called for the building of partnerships as 
the way forward. Alone we might be weak, but united 
we can move mountains.
We in the Maldives have always believed that we 
can  do  anything  we  set  our  mind  to,  as  long  as  we 
remain sincere in our intention and unwavering in our 
commitment. And the United Nations has never failed 
to inspire us in our resolve. That is why the Maldives 
joined  the  United  Nations  less  than  two  months  after 
gaining independence. Just a few days ago, we celebrated 
50  years  of  our  membership.  The  United  Nations  has 
served us well, and we are committed to expanding and 
further strengthening that valuable partnership. 
Though  short  of  finances,  we  have  no  shortage 
of  smart  ideas.  Our  former  President,  Mr.  Maumoon 
Abdul Gayoom, was the first to speak about the issue 
of  sea-level  rise  from  this  rostrum.  We  were  the  first 
to introduce the concept of the security of small States 
to the United Nations and the first to start advocating 
here in the Assembly for the link between human rights 
with climate change. And we remain relentless in our 
pursuit of those issues, not only because it is good for 
the Maldives, but because it is also good for humankind.
Fifty years ago, when we applied for United Nations 
membership, some doubted our ability to survive and 
questioned our capacity to contribute. After 50 years of 
United Nations membership, I say to those sceptics that 
we are not only willing, we are also able. We are not 
only viable, we are also valuable. And as Maldivians, 
we are proud of what we have achieved.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 
Ms. Niermala Badrising, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Suriname.
Ms. Badrising (Suriname): On behalf of President 
Desiré  Delano  Bouterse  and  the  Government  and 
the  people  of  the  Republic  of  Suriname,  I  would 
like  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session,  a  landmark  anniversary  for  our  global  body 
of  nations.  We  pledge  our  full  support  to  you  in  the 
successful  execution  of  your  duties.  We  also  wish  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  salute  your  predecessor,  His 
Excellency Mr. Sam Kutesa, for his skilful leadership 
and  commitment  in  helping  to  shape  the  new  global 
agenda, and we wish him well in his future endeavours. 
And we would like to pay tribute to Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  sterling  efforts  in  guiding  our 
Organization  through  these  challenging  times  for 
international peace, prosperity and security.
At 
its 
inception  70  years  ago, 
the  United 
Nations  made  a  commitment  to  saving  succeeding 
generations from the scourge of war, reaffirming faith 
in  fundamental  human  rights,  establishing  global 
justice  and  promoting  social  progress.  The  ensuing 
seven  decades  have  unquestionably  brought  many 
achievements.  The  United  Nations,  in  collaboration 
with its Member States, specialized organizations and 
other relevant stakeholders, including civil society, has 
promoted and assured access to education for boys and 
girls around the world, brought humanitarian relief to 
those in need, assisted societies in restoring democracy 
and supported defenders of human rights. It has given 
a voice to marginalized groups, especially the elderly, 
women, young people, indigenous peoples and persons 
with disabilities, and played a crucial role in the fight 
against  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and 
related intolerance.
However,  despite  such  advances, 
there  still 
remain  challenges  such  as  armed  conflicts,  the  rise 
of  fundamentalism,  disregard  for  fundamental  human 
rights and freedoms and global health concerns such as 
15-29946
15/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
HIV/AIDS and non-communicable diseases, as well as 
the  devastating  effects  of  climate  change  and  natural 
disasters. My Government therefore applauds the timely 
and inspiring themes chosen for this general debate and 
for the session as a whole: “The United Nations at 70: 
a new commitment to action” and “The United Nations 
at  70:  the  road  ahead  for  peace,  security  and  human 
rights”. Given that context, it was only fitting that we 
should  adopt  our  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1). In that spirit, therefore, 
we, the global community, must recommit to the ideals 
of  peace  and  security,  human  rights  and  sustainable 
development.
Combating  climate  change 
is  high  on  my 
Government’s  national  agenda.  Last  Wednesday,  my 
President  reiterated  its  importance  for  our  country’s 
development and future in his address to Parliament on 
the  occasion  of  the  presentation  of  our  annual  budget 
and  our  Government  policy  statement  for  the  period 
2015-2020. 
Although  Suriname  is  South  America’s  smallest 
country, we are home to about 8 per cent of the world’s 
untouched  tropical  forest.  With  around  94  per  cent 
of  the  country  covered  by  rainforest,  we  can  proudly 
inform the Assembly that we are the greenest nation on 
Earth. Approximately 12 per cent of our total acreage, 
including  the  Central  Suriname  Nature  Reserve,  a 
UNESCO World Heritage Site, has been designated a 
natural protected area. Our rivers carry between 10 and 
15 per cent of the world’s supply of fresh water. We can 
be seen as almost unique, since we are one of the few 
carbon-negative countries in the world.
Despite  such  wondrous  natural  blessings,  my 
country  continues  to  see  the  first  effects  of  climate 
change. Suriname has 239 miles of low-lying coastline 
and is listed as one of the seven countries in the world 
most vulnerable to the effects of the rising sea level. My 
Government looks forward to the establishment of a new 
global agreement on climate change in Paris later this 
year. It should include specific actions aimed at meeting 
mitigation  and  adaptation  commitments.  It  will  be 
necessary to make the provision of financial resources 
a  priority,  especially  for  small  island  developing 
States  and  countries  with  low-lying  coasts,  if  we  are 
to  implement  the  necessary  measures  effectively.  In 
that regard, we welcome the further implementation of 
the Green Climate Fund, including the ongoing efforts 
to create a logical framework model for financing for 
Reducing  Emissions  from  Deforestation  and  Forest 
Degradation in Developing Countries, or REDD-plus. 
In  the  context  of  its  intended  nationally  determined 
contribution,  the  Republic  of  Suriname  will  submit 
a  new  climate  action  plan  to  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change.
The Americas are committed to peace and security 
as  a  precursor  of  sustainable  development.  The 
proclamation of Latin America and the Caribbean as a 
zone of peace is testimony to our use of a multifaceted 
approach  to  assure  the  long-term  development  of  our 
continent  and  peoples.  My  Government  underscores 
the  critical  importance  of  the  processes  of  dialogue 
and  diplomacy  as  essential  contributing  elements 
to  democracy,  peace,  stability  and  security.  My 
Government 
the  peaceful  and 
negotiated  settlement  of  various  types  of  dispute, 
including border disagreements.
therefore  supports 
My Government welcomes the positive steps taken 
towards  normalizing  bilateral  relations  between  the 
Republic  of  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of  America. 
Suriname has a longstanding friendship with the people 
of Cuba, and we are of the view that the ongoing process 
of strengthening relations will help to enhance peace, 
stability,  unity  and  development  in  the  Americas.  We 
agree with the international community that lifting the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo on Cuba 
should be a top priority.
Decades  ago,  the  United  Nations  adopted  the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a cornerstone 
document  that  has  inspired  the  adoption  of  various 
standard-setting  human  rights  instruments  at  the 
international and regional levels. 
My  Government  is  concerned  about  the  loss  of 
life  and  destruction  resulting  from  current  violence 
and  ongoing  armed  conflict.  We  are  also  concerned 
about  the  current  humanitarian  crisis  caused  by  the 
huge numbers of refugees fleeing the Middle East and 
Africa.
Issues 
related 
to  gender  equality  and 
the 
empowerment of women, particularly that of increasing 
women’s political participation at all levels, continue to 
be of particular interest to the international community. 
My  Government  applauds  the  commitments  made 
in  that  regard  by  the  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
at  last  week’s  global  leaders’  meeting  here  in  New 
York.  It  is  vital  that  we  undertake  the  necessary 
measures to prevent all forms of discrimination at all 
16/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
levels,  including  establishing  relevant  legislative  and 
administrative frameworks.
Despite  the  many  positive  developments  with 
respect  to  shaping  the  international  agenda  over  the 
past seven decades, the socioeconomic development of 
and  existing  social  inequality  in  a  number  of  regions 
still  remain  alarming.  My  Government  is  of  the  view 
that human-centred economic development policies are 
instrumental  in  guaranteeing  the  realization  of  social 
developmental goals for the benefit of our peoples and 
countries. My Government emphasizes that there is an 
urgent need for an international enabling environment, 
including access to financing for development, in order 
to alleviate all forms of poverty and to create economic 
opportunities  that  enable  all  peoples  and  countries  to 
prosper.
Indeed, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
can  fulfil  a  critical  role  in  gradually  advancing 
sustainable  development  and  equality.  At  the  national 
level, my Government adopted the integrated Strategy 
for  Sustainable  Development,  which  emphasizes  the 
centrality  of  the  human  being  in  our  developmental 
efforts.
The  United  Nations  at  70  is  at  a  critical  stage  to 
become a more efficient and effective global institution, 
adequately resourced and fit for the challenges ahead. 
We the peoples of the world have to carry forward the 
renewed  hopes  and  aspirations  of  the  Organization. 
Suriname stands ready to play its part in strengthening 
multilateralism  in  partnership  with  other  States  and 
civil society to protect and preserve the planet and to 
ensure that everyone has a fair chance to develop his or 
her fullest potential for a better life.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Daniel  Jean,  Deputy  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Canada.
Mr. Jean (Canada): I am honoured to appear before 
the Assembly today to deliver these remarks on behalf 
of  the  Government  of  Canada  in  this,  the  seventieth 
anniversary year of the United Nations.
As  a  founding  Member  of  the  United  Nations, 
Canada  played  a  constructive  role  in  drafting  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  creating  the 
Organization  before,  during  and  after  the  1945  San 
Francisco  Conference.  There  can  be  little  doubt  that 
over  the  past  seven  decades,  through  the  General 
Assembly, other United Nations bodies and the myriad 
of  agencies,  funds  and  programmes  associated  with 
the United Nations, the Organization has often helped 
to  improve  the  lives  and  prospects  of  people  around 
the  world.  It  has  done  so  even  as  Member  States  and 
the United Nations itself have struggled to realize the 
Organization’s  most  fundamental  aspirations.  Since 
that  time,  Canada  and  Canadians  have  been  steadfast 
supporters of the United Nations and deeply engaged in 
its work to deliver results for the benefit of our common 
future.
One  of  the  ways  in  which  the  United  Nations  led 
the  way  in  its  early  years,  and  in  which  it  continues 
to  light  the  path  ahead,  has  been  in  the  vital  area  of 
international development. Canada is proud to support, 
in  word  and  deed,  the  commitments  in  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). 
The  Organization  and  the  international  community  it 
represents  deserve  our  praise  for  aiming  to  eliminate 
poverty  on  a  global  scale.  It  is  an  objective  that 
will  require  innovative  new  approaches  and  new 
partnerships. We will also need to promote fundamental 
freedoms, the rule of law and accountable governance 
in those parts of the world where the critical building 
blocks for sustainable development are weak or absent.
Canada looks forward to collaborating with others 
to sustain the momentum already underway as a result 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to  move 
forward with renewed determination. The Government 
of Canada has identified maternal, newborn and child 
health as a priority for development, in support for which 
we have committed $3.5 billion over the next five years. 
There has been progress, to be sure, but there remains 
much to do. Canada welcomes the inclusion of maternal, 
newborn and child health in the 2030 Agenda as a means 
to follow through on the commitments made under the 
2010 Group of Eight Muskoka Initiative, adopted at the 
Saving  Every  Woman,  Every  Child  Summit,  held  in 
Toronto in 2014, and the renewed Global Strategy for 
Women’s, Children’s and Adolescents’ Health.
As 
the 
international  community  commits 
to 
implementing the 2030 Agenda, one of the most critical 
questions we still face is how to finance the Sustainable 
Development Goals. While current official development 
assistance  will  retain  its  important  role,  current  and 
projected levels fall well short of the trillions of dollars 
required to implement the Goals. We need to find new 
ways to blend financing from donors, foundations, the 
private sector and other sources to fill the gap. 
15-29946
17/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
The  Global  Financing  Facility  (GFF)  in  support 
of  Every  Woman,  Every  Child  is  an  excellent  model 
of  how  the  private  sector  can  be  brought  on  board  to 
collaborate  with  national  Governments  to  sustainably 
finance maternal, newborn and child health initiatives. 
The additional investment generated through the GFF 
and other innovative financing mechanisms will set the 
course for increasing funding from the current billions 
of  dollars  allocated  for  development  finance  to  the 
trillions  required  if  we  want  to  achieve  the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  Canada  will  continue  to  play  a 
leading role in helping to establish those mechanisms to 
secure sustainable financing and leverage the expertise 
and  resources  of  the  private  sector  in  support  of  the 
development outcomes.
(spoke in French)
Humanitarian  assistance  is  even  more  important, 
as progress in development can be wiped out overnight 
by natural disasters, political violence and international 
conflicts  or  crises  linked  to  acute  food  insecurity  or 
the spread of disease. When considering the first-ever 
World Humanitarian Summit, to be held in May 2016, 
we all must strive to increase countries’ determination 
to  respect  international  humanitarian  law,  to  protect 
civilians and to strengthen resilience when faced with 
possible crises, in particular by ensuring that national 
Governments will be equipped to deal with those crises.
In responding to the needs of humankind, Canada 
always  strives  to  act  with  generosity,  speed  and 
efficacy  to  save  lives,  to  alleviate  suffering  and  to 
preserve  the  dignity  of  the  people  most  affected.  In 
2014,  Canada  increased  by  32  per  cent  its  financial 
contribution to humanitarian assistance in response to 
the  ever-increasing  needs  in  the  world,  especially  for 
countries in crisis, such as Iraq, Syria, the Philippines, 
Ukraine,  the  Central  African  Republic,  South  Sudan 
and Yemen. Similarly, Canada has played a leading role 
in the prompt and effective action by the international 
community to the Ebola epidemic in certain regions of 
West Africa.
As  shown  at  numerous  times  in  the  past,  Canada 
has  the  capacity  and  the  will  to  assist  and  deal  with 
the crisis of refugees and migrants currently affecting 
Europe. Since the establishment of the United Nations, 
the international community has been confronted with 
many  situations  brought  about  by  the  voluntary  and 
involuntary  displacement  of  people.  In  some  cases, 
such as those of individuals trying to escape the crisis 
in  Syria,  the  issue  is  urgent.  In  others,  it  is  part  of  a 
long-term phenomenon. We work in collaboration with 
our partners to address those difficulties, including by 
accelerating  the  resettlement  process  of  Syrians  and 
Iraqis in our own country this year.
We know that Canadians will support those efforts 
with the same spirit of generosity that has characterized 
the assistance they have provided when others were in 
distress and affected by disasters. However, we cannot 
stop there; we must also take on together human rights 
violations and promote stability, peace and prosperity 
in regions subjected to instability or violent conflicts.
The United Nations, rooted in respect for fundamental 
rights  and  freedoms,  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law, 
was established specifically for that purpose. 
Without  the  strong  and  collective  commitment  of 
all  Member  States  to  those  principles,  the  edifying 
words  of  the  Preamble  to  the  Charter  risk  becoming 
simply hollow and meaningless words. In the words of 
the Prime Minister of Canada:
“Where  human  misery  abounds,  where  grinding 
poverty is the rule, where justice is systematically 
denied, there is no real peace — only the seeds of 
future conflict.” (A/69/PV.11, p. 11)
Canada continues to support a wide range of initiatives 
and  measures  established  by  the  United  Nations  to 
promote peace and security, including the most recent 
efforts to combat terrorism and to identify new ways to 
combat violent extremism.
Innocent  civilians  suffer  the  most  in  internal  and 
international  conflicts,  as  we  see  today  in  Iraq  and 
Syria,  where  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham 
(ISIS) and other terrorist groups are sowing destruction. 
We are concerned by the resurgence of the Taliban in 
northern  Afghanistan,  by  the  scale  of  the  ambition 
shown by Daesh and their expanding networks in South 
Asia,  the  Middle  East,  North  Africa  and  the  Sahel, 
as well as by their subsidiaries, such as Boko Haram. 
The  international  community  must  continue  to  take 
significant steps to combat terrorism together. 
Faced with that situation, Canada’s action includes 
not only its role in the military coalition that is fighting 
against the immediate threat posed by Daesh, but also 
efforts  to  provide  humanitarian  assistance.  Canada 
will continue to support ethnic and religious minorities 
whose very existence is threatened.
18/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
the  Secretary-General  on  Sexual  Violence 
We are committed to drawing everyone’s attention 
to  the  consequences  of  sexual  violence  and  other 
barbaric abuses perpetrated by ISIS against women and 
girls.  Last  July,  we  hosted  the  Special  Representative 
of 
in 
Conflict, Ms. Zainab Bangura, who presented graphic 
and detailed conclusions of her assessment mission to 
the Middle East to members of the Global Coalition to 
Counter ISIL, gathered in Quebec City. At that meeting, 
Canada announced an additional financial contribution 
for  the  survivors  of  abuses  committed  by  Daesh  and 
in  support  of  the  essential  work  being  carried  out  by 
Ms. Bangura.
Canada has long been determined to work for the 
independence of women and girls and for greater respect 
for  their  rights  in  conflict  situations.  That  is  why  we 
support  a  high-level  review  of  the  implementation  of 
the  programme  on  women  and  peace  and  security,  as 
we  have  done  for  the  past  15  years,  that  is,  since  the 
adoption  of  Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000), 
the  first  resolution  on  that  issue.  Canada  has  played 
a  leading  role  in  the  global  campaign  to  eliminate 
child  marriage,  early  marriage  and  forced  marriage, 
a  widespread  and  harmful  practice  that  threatens  the 
lives  and  the  future  of  girls  around  the  world,  with 
devastating consequences not only for them but also for 
their communities.
(spoke in English)
Our  rules-based  international  system  must  be 
preserved. International guarantees lose their meaning 
if  rules  are  flagrantly  violated.  We  must  face  acute 
challenges  to  security  and  human  rights,  such  as  in 
Iraq  and  Syria,  as  well  as  the  abuses  that  follow  in 
the  wake  of  acts  of  aggression,  such  as  the  Russian 
invasion of Ukraine, the illegal annexation of Crimea 
and the continued interference in eastern Ukraine. This 
rostrum  must  not  be  used  by  leaders  to  subvert  the 
principles on which this Organization was established. 
This platform should be used to respond to, and tackle, 
these global threats.
Two countries that persistently violate international 
standards in this area and whose Governments oppress 
their  own  people  and  threaten  their  neighbours, 
as  well  as  global  peace  are  Iran  and  North  Korea. 
Non-compliance  over  the  course  of  decades  raises 
questions  about  ambitions  and 
intentions.  Verbal 
pledges or paper promises are not enough. There must 
be  verifiable  evidence  of  compliance  and  meaningful 
penalties for continued defiance. 
In  that  regard,  while  we  appreciate  the  efforts  of 
the P5+1, the real test of the Joint Comprehensive Plan 
of  Action  concerning  Iran,  or  any  similar  agreement, 
will be in its concrete implementation and independent 
verification.  Actions  speak  louder  than  words.  To 
that  end,  it  is  vital  to  support,  sustain  and,  where 
necessary,  enhance  the  monitoring  capabilities  of  the 
relevant  agencies,  such  as  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency, and ensure that verifiable deeds match 
conciliatory words. Nothing less than the credibility of 
the United Nations is at stake on such matters.
As with any organization, it is vital for the United 
Nations to reassess what it does and how it pursues its 
goals  in  the  light  of  the  remarkable  changes  since  its 
founding.  Canada  wholeheartedly  supports  the  high-
level review of peace operations. We cannot always rely 
on the instruments of the past to deal with the crises of 
today.
Freedom,  peace  and  stability  pave  the  way  to 
lasting  prosperity.  As  we  all  know,  the  path  to  real 
sustainable development requires action at many levels 
and with many partners. Private-sector-led growth is a 
key ingredient for achieving that goal and for reducing 
poverty. Trade and investment are at the heart of that 
effort. That is why Canada is a firm supporter of a free 
and open trading system that fosters growth, contributes 
to  development  and  supports  poverty  reduction  in  all 
regions of the world.
Perhaps no issue reminds us that we are all part of 
one world more than the threat to our collective well-
being posed by climate change, a global challenge that 
requires global solutions. Canada takes the challenge of 
climate change seriously and is working with all parties 
under  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change to reach an effective post-2020 climate 
change  agreement  at  the  twenty-first  session  of  the 
Conference of the Parties to the Framework Convention, 
to  be  held  later  this  year  in  Paris.  For  Canada,  an 
effective agreement must address both mitigation and 
adaptation, and, most importantly, such an agreement 
must include a commitment to mitigation actions by all 
of the world’s major emitters of greenhouse gases. 
On  15  May,  Canada  announced  its  post-2020 
climate change target — an economy-wide reduction of 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  by  30  per  cent  below  2005 
levels by 2030. That is an ambitious target that is in line 
15-29946
19/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
with  other  major  industrialized  countries  and  reflects 
our national circumstances, including Canada’s position 
as a world leader in clean electricity generation.
Canada recognizes that financing is a key part of 
the discussion and, moving forward with our partners, 
we will, as we have done in the past, continue to support 
international  climate-change  financing.  Canada  has 
already  pledged  $300  million  to  the  Green  Climate 
Fund, in addition to a previous investment of $1.2 billion 
that  we  provided  under  quick-start  climate-change 
financing, which has supported a number of beneficial 
projects in more than 70 developing countries.
Mr.  Alyemany  (Yemen),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
From  the  beginning,  Canada  has  been  one  of  the 
largest  and  most  reliable  financial  contributors  to  the 
United  Nations.  In  the  light  of  that  support,  it  should 
come as no surprise that the Government of Canada and 
Canadians  expect  that  money  to  be  spent  wisely  and 
that the United Nations should be held accountable for 
its expenditures.
As I said at the outset, the overarching aims of the 
United Nations since its creation have been remarkably 
consistent,  namely,  to  help  achieve  greater  prosperity 
and  security,  to  advance  mutual  respect,  fairness  and 
good international conduct, and, ultimately, to inspire 
and sustain the hopes of people everywhere for a better 
future.  With  our  friends  and  partners  in  the  global 
community,  we  have  striven  to  make  this  world  a 
better  place  and  to  make  the  United  Nations  a  better 
instrument for achieving those goals. We look forward 
to working together with other nations, as we have done 
for seven decades, in pursuit of that common purpose.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Daniele  Bodini, 
Chair of the Delegation of the Republic of San Marino.
to 
congratulate the President on his election as President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session.  I 
also  wish  to  commend  the  work  of  His  Excellency 
Mr. Sam Kutesa, President of the General Assembly at 
the sixty-ninth session, and to express sincere thanks to 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his tireless efforts 
in leading the United Nations. The result of such efforts 
culminated  in  the  very  successful  United  Nations 
Summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development 
agenda and this general debate, as well as the historic 
Mr.  Bodini  (San  Marino):  I  would 
like 
visit  of  the  Holy  Father,  Pope  Francis,  to  the  General 
Assembly  (see  A/70/PV.3).  Moreover,  San  Marino 
appreciates the constant and impartial attention that the 
Secretary-General has paid to all States Members of the 
United Nations.
After  70  years,  the  United  Nations  has  not  only 
passed the test of time, but it continues to represent a 
shining beacon of hope for all our countries. I believe 
that in future we will have to be even more willing and 
inspired  to  strengthen  and  improve  the  role  that  this 
great institution plays. In fact, the first and last line of 
defence for San Marino, a small State without an army 
and with limited territory and resources, is the United 
Nations.
Even  the  strongest  and  largest  countries  cannot 
deal  with  the  complexity  and  the  multitude  of  today 
problems  all  by  themselves.  They  need  the  United 
Nations  too.  With  the  help  of  the  United  Nations 
system,  we,  the  Member  States,  have  over  the  years 
built  the  foundations  for  peace  by  preventing  and 
ending numerous disputes. We have been able to free 
millions of people from extreme poverty and have made 
important  progress  in  advancing  human  rights  and 
democracy and in promoting justice and international 
law.
Unfortunately, despite all our efforts and successes, 
the international community continues to face the same 
challenges:  wars,  poverty,  inequality,  discrimination 
and violence against women and children. In addition, 
today we face new global challenges, such as climate 
change,  economic  and  financial  crises,  unrelenting 
unemployment, international migration and terrorism. 
Those  new  threats  are  interdependent,  and  we  should 
work together with the United Nations to take them on 
and defeat them.
Around  the  world,  our  people  look  to  the  United 
Nations for leadership. That is why reform of the United 
Nations is fundamental and must remain at the core of 
our  collective  efforts  during  the  seventieth  session  of 
the General Assembly. We must make the Organization 
more  effective,  while  preserving  its  integrity  and 
enhancing its status.
Every  day,  we  witness  the  tragic  migration  from 
Africa and Asia towards Europe. Those desperate people 
have  left  their  countries  and  their  families  behind, 
fleeing  from  conflicts,  violence  and  persecution. 
Thousands  of  them  have  died  in  the  Mediterranean 
Sea.  We  are  pleased  that,  a  few  days  ago,  the  high-
20/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
level side event here at Headquarters on strengthening 
cooperation  on  migration  and  refugee  movements  in 
the  perspective  of  the  new  development  agenda  was 
organized.
San  Marino  cannot  remain  silent  about  what  is 
happening in Iraq and Syria, where an ongoing inhuman 
ethnic and religious cleansing is being carried out with 
unprecedented  ferocity.  We  hope  that  under  the  able 
stewardship  of  Mr.  Staffan  de  Mistura,  a  diplomatic 
solution will be found in the near future.
San Marino believes that one of the most important 
tasks  for  us  to  deal  with  is  the  total  elimination  of 
nuclear  weapons,  thousands  of  which  are  ready  to  be 
employed  at  any  time.  We  cannot  afford  to  wait  any 
longer.
San Marino strongly believes in further revitalizing 
and  empowering  the  General  Assembly,  the  forum 
where solutions to today’s challenges can be found and 
where consensus on issues of common interest must be 
reached. We commend the Security Council for all the 
delicate and challenging work that it has accomplished 
over  the  years  in  favour  of  peace  and  security. 
Nevertheless,  it  is  time  for  a  reform.  We  believe  that 
Security Council reform should include an enlargement 
of the category of non-permanent members and a more 
balanced geographical distribution. We are convinced 
that, for that reform to be legitimate, it must be achieved 
with the widest possible consensus.
We  welcome 
the  new  post-2015  development 
agenda adopted a few days ago as the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). It represents 
a  unique  opportunity  to  prepare  a  brighter  future  for 
our citizens. The Goals at the core of the new Agenda 
are  ambitious;  they  will  guide  our  efforts  in  pursuit 
of  poverty  eradication,  the  empowerment  of  people, 
the safeguarding of human dignity, shared prosperity, 
decent jobs for all, and the protection of our planet. It is 
important that each country, after adopting its national 
agenda, assume responsibility for its own citizens and for 
the international community in working to implement 
the new Agenda. San Marino welcomes the fact that the 
high-level political forum on sustainable development 
and the Economic and Social Council will be assessing 
the  progress  of  that  implementation.  However,  it  is 
critical that a comprehensive and effective mechanism 
for review and accountability be established.
The  Republic  of  San  Marino  has  always  paid 
special attention to the most vulnerable groups, such as 
women, children, the elderly and the disabled. Today, 
women  are  still  the  victims  of  discrimination  and 
violence  in  many  parts  of  the  world,  including  in  the 
most developed countries. Trafficking in women is an 
issue that is far from having been solved. Women living 
in conflict and post-conflict situations are often subject 
to  sexual  violence,  torture  and  summary  execution. 
Children,  the  most  vulnerable  group,  are  also  subject 
to  violence,  abuse  and  exploitation.  A  large  number 
of  children  all  over  the  world  do  not  yet  have  access 
to basic services, health care and education. We have 
the  duty  to  protect  and  help  our  children.  Moreover, 
the  international  community  must  strive  for  the  full 
inclusion  and  participation  of  the  elderly  and  people 
with  disabilities  in  the  economic,  social  and  cultural 
life of our communities.
Freedom  and  peace  have  always  represented  the 
core  values  of  the  Republic  of  San  Marino  over  its 
centuries-old  history.  San  Marino  is  a  small  country, 
but  one  strongly  committed  to  the  implementation 
of  the  universal  values  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
principles enshrined in its Charter. We are honoured to 
offer our contribution to the United Nations community.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Carlos  Raúl  Morales 
Moscoso, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic 
of Guatemala.
Mr.  Morales  Moscoso  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  I  come  before  this  highest  forum  of  the 
United Nations as the representative of the Government 
of  Guatemala  and  of  the  President  of  the  Republic, 
Alejandro  Maldonado  Aguirre.  I  greet  Mr.  Mogens 
Lykketoft,  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventieth session. With his vast experience and well-
known skill he can lead ably.
I  want  to  begin  my  statement  by  expressing  the 
grief and sorrow of the people and the Government of 
Guatemala after the tragedy that occurred last Thursday 
night, 1 October, when a landslide buried at least 125 
homes, and in two hours killed 33 people and caused 
the disappearance of approximately 600 other citizens, 
as well as a considerable number of injured, in a town 
near  Guatemala  City.  The  landslide  occurred  as  the 
result of the heavy rains that have plagued Guatemala 
after nearly 12 weeks of extreme drought, which caused 
serious damage to the country’s agricultural sector. Our 
rescue  teams  are  now  searching  for  survivors.  More 
than  616  rescuers  are  participating,  and  the  citizenry 
15-29946
21/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
is providing invaluable and exemplary support. We are 
grateful for the international solidarity that the world 
has shown following that tragedy.
During 
the  United  Nations 
Sustainable 
Development Summit, the Vice-President of Guatemala 
described the momentous events that have taken place 
in  our  country  over  the  past  several  months,  which 
represent a watershed in our political history (see A/70/
PV.6). He described how, beginning in April, the people 
of  Guatemala  took  to  the  streets  in  huge  numbers  to 
demonstrate their complete rejection of corruption and 
their indignation at the collapse of an economic, social 
and political system that was incapable of overcoming 
poverty and segregation of all kinds that revealed grave 
flaws in our system of governance. 
It is important to stress the pluralistic, mass nature 
of  the  civic  movement  and  especially  its  peaceful 
character. There was not a single incident of violence 
during four months of protest. In fact, the protests lasted 
22 weeks, during which the collective civic behaviour 
was exemplary, without incidents of any sort, without 
vandalism and without a single act of aggression of any 
kind.
That great popular movement led to the resignation 
and  trial  of  the  Vice-President  and,  subsequently,  the 
President of the Republic, along with other Government 
officials and individuals. In that regard, it is important 
to stress the role that the United Nations played through 
the  International  Commission  against  Impunity  in 
Guatemala  —  known  as  CICIG  —in  support  of  the 
Public Prosecutor’s Office. As a result of the foregoing, 
and  with  our  Political  Constitution  as  its  framework,  
a  process  was  developed  that  culminated  in  the 
appointment of President Alejandro Maldonado Aguirre 
on 3 September and the election of Vice-President Juan 
Alfonso Fuentes Soria on 16 September. They now have 
the  responsibility  of  leading  the  country  towards  the 
transfer of presidential power on 14 January 2016.
I  would  like  to  underscore  that  despite  the 
serious  challenges  that  arose,  our  laws  and  legally 
constituted  institutions  responded.  The  constitutional 
order remained intact and no laws were violated. The 
constitutional  mechanisms,  the  system  of  justice,  the 
electoral  system  and  the  social  media  all  functioned, 
and  in  general  terms,  our  participatory  democracy 
proved its strength.
All  of  these  factors  affected  the  results  of  the 
general  elections  held  on  6  September  and  had  an 
impact  on  voter  turnout,  which  was  the  highest  it 
has been since the return to democracy 30 years ago. 
Those important gains belong to all Guatemalans, who 
are  demanding  deep  and  immediate  changes.  Their 
expectations  are  high,  and  they  hope  to  see  concrete 
results benefiting citizens in a short time, both from the 
current transitional Government and from the one that 
will be elected in the second round of voting, which we 
will hold on 25 October.
The  various  sectors  of  Guatemalan  society  are 
demanding the urgent reform of certain laws, including 
those governing the civil service, the electoral process 
and political parties, legal education and State contracts. 
But  perhaps  the  most  important  aspect  is  the  social 
impact  of  the  collective  realization  that  Guatemala 
needs to aim for a future built on a genuine, solid rule 
of  law.  As  we  stated  when  we  took  the  floor  during 
the Summit to adopt the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1):
“The 
invisible  Guatemala,  made  up  of 
indigenous  peoples  and  peasants  who  have  been 
marginalized by the system, has not been satisfied 
with the resigned approach taken by their leaders; it 
has flooded the streets to warn that the amendment 
of a few laws is not enough. They demand reforms 
of  the  State  for  a  profound  transformation  of  the 
economic,  social  and  political  system  that  would 
allow  them  to  overcome  poverty,  exclusion  and 
racism,  thereby  developing  a  true  concept  of 
national  and  international  solidarity,  an  essential 
element of peace and security.” (A/70/PV.6, p. 4)
It is therefore important for the Guatemalan State 
to respond appropriately to the population’s demands to 
be able to consolidate our democracy on the foundation 
created by that extraordinary movement and to achieve 
a more peaceful, less exclusionary and more equitable 
society.
Another of the main challenges facing the State of 
Guatemala  is  to  create  better  living  conditions  for  its 
citizens in order to avoid the exodus of so many who 
must seek better horizons abroad. Migration should be 
an option, not aan obligation. Approximately 2 million 
Guatemalans  currently  live  outside  the  country,  most 
of  them  in  the  United  States  of  America.  That  is  a 
long-standing phenomenon, but now one of the biggest 
concerns  is  the  growing  migration  of  boys  and  girls 
who  travel  by  themselves,  primarily  with  the  goal  of 
family  reunification.  Our  countries  should  do  their 
22/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
best to see that such children remain at home instead of 
risking their lives.
Guatemala,  Honduras  and  El  Salvador  make  up 
Central America’s Northern Triangle. With the support 
of  the  Inter-American  Development  Bank  and  the 
Government of the United States of America, we have 
been developing the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity, 
whose goal is to deal with the deepest roots of migration 
and to serve as a framework that offers new and better 
economic prospects; build the conditions for better civil 
security;  create  a  social  safety  network  for  the  most 
vulnerable groups of our societies; and strengthen our 
democratic institutions. In our draft budgets for 2016, 
the  three  countries  have  planned  for  approximately 
$2.8 million to implement the Plan. 
There is shared responsibilty among the countries 
of  origin,  transit  and  destination.  Comprehensive 
immigration reform in the United States of America is 
inevitable.  It  is  a  matter  of  principles  and  respect  for 
human  rights.  We  appreciate  the  efforts  of  President 
Barack Obama, and I take this opportunity to reiterate 
my  Government’s  call  for  the  approval  of  Temporary 
Protected  Status,  known  as  TPS,  for  Guatemalan 
immigrants. The State of Guatemala, for its part, needs 
to  broaden  its  consular  network  as  soon  as  possible, 
especially in the countries of North America, in order 
to offer protection and consular services to its citizens.
One  of  the  main  causes  of  migration  is  natural 
disasters. This year again, the long drought and the delay 
in rains in the first harvest have impacted food security 
in  the  most  vulnerable  homes.  More  than  120,000 
families  are  currently  affected,  reprepresenting  more 
than 600,000 people who lack food for subsistence. We 
are grateful for the cooperation that we have received 
and call for more, basically because on top of chronic 
poverty come natural disastres, and now the effects of 
the man-made crisis, which the citizens have rejected. 
Nevertheless, our great strength is without a doubt the 
desire  for  civic  participation,  which  the  transitional 
Government  must  support  and  respond  to  effectively 
with an extreme shortage of resources.
At  the  same  time,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the 
State’s commitment to the communities affected by the 
development of the Chixoy Hydroelectric Dam. We are 
committed to making reparations to the affected groups 
and expect to begin making the first payments in the 
coming weeks as part of a process that we hope to bring 
to a successful conclusion.
I would like now to mention a few subjects relating 
to our foreign policy. First, I am pleased to report that 
we  have  continued  to  make  progress  in  our  bilateral 
relations with our neighbouring countries. 
With  respect  to  Belize,  we  have  committed  to 
appearing before the International Court of Justice to 
seek definitive resolution of our territorial, island and 
marine  dispute,  as  both  countries  have  agreed.  We 
look forward to the entry into force of the 13 bilateral 
agreements signed in December 2014 and the protocol 
to the special agreement of 2008, signed in May.
With  Mexico  we  maintain  a  robust,  significant 
agenda and an unprecedented dynamic of cooperation. 
Recently  12  agreements  were  signed  on  economic 
issues,  trade,  border  modernization  and  energy,  in 
addition  to  addressing  jointly  challenges  such  as 
migration and organized crime. 
With  Honduras,  we  have  made  progress  on  a 
customs union, a commitment  that has been pending 
for  many  years  in  the  Central  American  integration 
process.  It  will  be  the  first  customs  union  of  the 
American hemisphere.
The President returned to the Chair.
Moreover,  Guatemala  welcomes  the  restoration 
of diplomatic relations between the United States and 
Cuba as an important step towards the strengthening of 
hemispheric cooperation. In that connection, we trust 
that  the  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  for  over  50  years 
will end.
We  also  applaud 
the  reconciliation  and 
the 
growing  climate  of  cooperation  generated  among  the 
parties  separated  by  the  Taiwan  Strait.  We  hope  that 
that atmosphere of cooperation can be extended to the 
global effort to fight climate change.
Turning  now  to  our  position  on  some  of  the 
challenges  facing  the  United  Nations  as  this  session 
begins,  I  want  to  reiterate  our  deep  concern  over  the 
instability in the Middle East, above all the protracted 
conflict in Syria. It has had a huge cost in human life 
and suffering, as demonstrated by the terrible images of 
the current migration exodus.
At  the  same  time  I  would  like  to  highlight  the 
central role played by peacekeeping operations and to 
reiterate our full support for their basic principles, which 
remain relevant and should be preserved. Guatemala’s 
contribution  to  such  missions  is  a  testament  to  our 
strong commitment to international peace and security. 
15-29946
23/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
We believe that an imortant step has been taken in 
the review and assessment of those operations through  
the  work  of  the  High-level  Independent  Panel  on  all 
aspects of United Nations peace operations, as well as 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  implementation 
of  the  Panel’s  recommendations  (A/70/357),  and  we 
stand ready to start a serious discussion of all measures 
that  could  improve  our  contribution  to  peacekeeping 
and the success of such operations.
We agree with other delegations that the adoption 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1)  was  an  important  step  to  carry  into 
the  future  the  unfinished  tasks  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  We  join  in  the  clamour  for  a 
response in the Paris Climate Summit to the enormous 
challenges posed by climate change and hope that it will 
produce  a  legally  binding  instrument.  I  wish  to  share 
with the Assembly the fact that Guatemala has already 
played its part. It has already approved some important 
laws and national documents to present at the Summit.
We  have  followed  the  debate  on  reforming  the 
principal organs and reviewing their working methods. 
We recognize that the international community is faced 
with  limited  resources  and  a  plethora  of  needs  and 
vulnerable populations to deal with. While recognizing 
the  invaluable  role  played  by  the  United  Nations  for 
humankind,  we  warn  that  the  Organization  has  been 
lagging in adapting to the conditions of the twenty-first 
century. Let us unite efforts to advance this ambitious 
agenda for future generations.
Faced  with  the  loss  of  so  many  lives  in  conflicts 
around  the  world,  as  well  as  new  threats,  it  is  timely 
for    Member  States  to  ask  ourselves  whether  we  are 
fulfilling the promise on which the Organization was 
founded  —  “to  save  succeeding  generations  from  the 
scourge of war”. But we reiterate our faith in the United 
Nations as we commemorate its 70 years, and we trust 
that it is in the hands of all the Member States to secure 
its growing relevance for the future so as to focus on 
peace, security and human rights.
The President: I now give the floor to the Chair of 
the Delegation of the Republic of Palau.
Mr. Otto (Palau):  On  behalf  of  President  Tommy 
Esang  Remengesau  Jr.,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Palau, I have the honour to make the following remarks 
before the General Assembly at its seventieth session.
At  the  outset,  Palau  would  like  to  congratulate 
you, Sir, on your election to lead our work during the 
seventieth session. We pledge our support for the work 
ahead. May we also take the opportunity to express our 
sincere  gratitude  to  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  for  his  sterling 
leadership during the sixty-ninth session.
We meet here today in perilously challenging, yet 
still  hopeful,  times.  The  principles  enshrined  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations are more critical to our 
common  future  than  ever  before.  We  must  not  only 
reaffirm our faith in fundamental human rights and the 
equal  rights  of  men  and  women  and  of  nations  large 
and small, but also redouble our efforts to uphold those 
rights. Our collective determination to promote social 
progress and better standards of living must be matched 
by  our  on-the-ground  partnerships  to  fight  poverty, 
protect the most vulnerable among us and protect the 
one planet we call home.
So  while  the  challenges  —  violence  and  war, 
poverty and disease, rising seas and wildfires as well 
as droughts caused by climate change — are enormous, 
so  too  is  the  resolve  that  I  share  with  all  here  today 
to make good on our commitment to transforming our 
world through the urgent and effective implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1).
I would like to congratulate the Secretary-General, 
the  co-facilitators  and  the  thousands  of  people  whose 
dedicated  work  made  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals in the 2030 Agenda a strong set of imperatives 
for transformational change that all of our peoples so 
urgently need to preserve our cultures, our economies 
and  our  environment  and  to  ensure  a  sustainable  and 
prosperous future for our children.
Let me also briefly express my President’s sorrow 
at the plight of the countless refugees who are seeking 
havens of peace and prosperity for themselves and for 
their families as they search for refuge and protection 
away  from  their  motherlands,  which  have  been  torn 
by  strife  that  was  sparked  and  worsened  by  internal 
conflict and/or environmental degradation and climate 
change.
The theme of the general debate at the seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations,  “The  United 
Nations  at  70:  a  new  commitment  to  action”,  is  very 
appropriate for this year’s high-level event, the United 
Nations  Summit  for  the  adoption  of  the  new  post-
2015 development agenda. It took place just before the 
24/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
general  debate  and  adopted  resolution  70/1,  entitled 
“Transforming  our  world: 
the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development”, containing the Sustainable 
Development Goals.
Just prior to the Summit, His Holiness Pope Francis 
addressed  the  General  Assembly  (see  A/70/PV.3), 
reiterating the theme of his papal encyclical, Laudato 
si’, wherein he criticized the careless use of our planet’s 
resources  leading  to  environmental  degradation  and 
global  warming.  Let  his  commentaries  serve  as  an 
inspiration to us all that will change hearts, minds and 
actions  for  a  better  future  that  will  focus  the  world’s 
attention on the most vulnerable among us and on our 
Mother Earth.
My  friends,  we  can  only  hope  that  a  generation 
from now, this session of the General Assembly will be 
remembered as the defining event when the nations of 
the world decided, with the greatest resolve, to reverse 
the tide of the unchecked development and exploitation 
of our planet and redouble their efforts to end poverty 
and  protect  the  most  vulnerable  among  us  and  truly 
committed to transformative action.
Fifteen years ago, 189 nations and 23 international 
organizations  committed  to  moving  forward  with 
the  eight  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs). 
The  Goals  served  as  the  framework  for  a  new  global 
commitment  to  reducing  extreme  poverty,  improving 
health,  enhancing  environmental  sustainability  and 
addressing gender equality. We now know that progress 
towards achieving these Goals has been impressive but 
uneven. Our work to augment these Goals and adopt a 
new set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals reflects 
a very clear recognition that the results of the MDGs 
would have been more impressive had they addressed 
the  underlying  causes  of  poverty  and  environmental 
degradation,  and  had  Goal  8,  on  partnerships,  been 
better realized.
Through 15 years of experience, we now recognize 
that  it  is  only  through  international  cooperation  and 
partnership with a wide variety of stakeholders that we 
can scale up the urgent action needed to realize the full 
potential of sustainable development for our people and 
for the oceans, forests and coastal areas that sustain our 
cultures and livelihoods. I am hopeful that now, in 2015, 
we  will  all  embrace  the  overarching  goal  represented 
by the new Sustainable Development Goals, that is, our 
commitment to revitalizing the global partnership for 
sustainable development.
The  third  International  Conference  on  Financing 
for Development, held in Addis Ababa in July, was the 
first test of the degree of commitment on the part of the 
developed  countries  to  endowing  the  new  sustainable 
development  agenda  with  the  means  needed  to  meet 
the new proposed level of ambition. Unfortunately, the 
Addis Ababa Action Agenda merely reiterated, by and 
large, the commitments made to the outgoing agenda of 
the Millennium Development Goals and failed to bridge 
the  gap  between  grand  speech-making  and  down-to-
earth expanded financial commitments.
A  more  ambitious  and 
reinvigorated  global 
partnership  is  clearly  required.  The  annual  report 
of  the  MDG  Gap  Task  Force,  including  the  recently 
released  2015  report,  highlighted  several  shortfalls  in 
international efforts to achieve the MDGs and provided 
sobering  reminders  of 
to  substantially 
step  up  efforts  to  meet  long-standing  international 
commitments.
the  need 
Over four and a half decades ago, the international 
community  committed  to  transferring  0.7  per  cent  of 
the gross national income of the rich countries to the 
poorer  countries  in  the  form  of  official  development 
assistance. To date, the rich nations of the world have 
generally  fallen  short  of  that  commitment.  In  the 
coming  decades,  affordable  and  equitable  access  to 
technology will be ever more critical if we are to attain 
the designated levels of human progress and sustainable 
development in many areas, including enhancing food 
security,  improving  health,  including  mental  health 
and  well-being,  and  preventing  non-communicable 
diseases. Technology will be the bedrock for aggressive 
action  in  climate-change  mitigation  and  adaptation, 
which remain urgent.
Let me reiterate an important point. If our collective 
will to implement the 2030 Agenda is sincere, then it is 
essential to greatly enhance the means and mechanisms 
of implementation on a much greater scale than those 
recommended  in  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda. 
That is the only way to achieve the promise of a more 
inclusive  and  sustainable  world  free  from  hunger  and 
where poverty is eradicated. Let me say it again. That 
will be achieved only through expanded, genuine and 
durable partnerships.
Fortunately,  my  country  has  a  history  of  strong 
partnerships.  The  United  States  continues  to  support 
Palau in its development and movement toward economic 
independence.  We  continue  to  be  strong  friends,  and 
15-29946
25/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
we  recognize  the  unique  relationship  that  we  share. 
We  look  forward  to  completing  our  Compact  of  Free 
Association  agreement  with  the  United  States,  which 
reflects that close and special relationship. We wish to 
express our special gratitude to the United States and 
our many other global partners for their support of Goal 
14, on oceans, and for the ongoing support towards the 
preservation of our largest global resource through the 
set-aside of 10 per cent of our global oceans as marine 
protected  areas.  Finally,  we  thank  the  United  States 
for  its  continued  and  increased  assistance  to  Palau’s 
expanded marine surveillance and enforcement efforts. 
That  is  critical  if  we  are  to  successfully  protect  the 
proposed new Palau National Marine Sanctuary.
Palau  would  also  like  to  acknowledge  the  great 
friendship that it has with Japan and the very significant 
economic  support  that  we  have  received  from  Japan 
over  the  years.  We  also  wish  to  express  our  sincere 
gratitude  for  Japan’s  generous  support  and  enhanced 
public and private assistance to our marine surveillance 
and  enforcement  efforts.  We  continue  to  express  our 
support  for  the  expansion  and  reform  of  the  Security 
Council and for Japan’s permanent membership in the 
Council.
Palau  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Republic  of 
China  on  Taiwan  for  its  friendship  and  economic 
support  in  assisting  Palau  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  Palau  also  wishes  to  recognize 
Taiwan’s  commitment  to  lowering  carbon  emissions 
by 50 per cent by 2050, compared to 2005 levels. We 
urge  the  United  Nations  system  to  involve  Taiwan  in 
the  process  of  implementing  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  Additionally,  we  advocate 
in  favour  of  Taiwan’s  participation  in  the  relevant 
international  environmental  mechanisms,  such  as  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change.  Taiwan  possesses  technical  capacities  in 
many  areas  that  can  be  shared  with  the  world.  It 
should therefore also participate in other international 
meetings,  mechanisms  and 
frameworks  such  as 
the  World  Health  Organization,  International  Civil 
Aviation  Organization,  the  Trans-Pacific  Partnership 
Agreement and the Regional Comprehensive Economic 
Partnership, among others. 
The success and implementation of the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  will  rest,  in  great  part,  on  the 
strength of partnerships, which means inclusion rather 
than exclusion. Taiwan has been a valuable partner to 
Palau  in  achieving  our  MDGs,  and  we  look  forward 
to  our  continued  partnership  with  that  country  as  we 
embark upon the great challenge of implementing the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
We would like to express our special gratitude to 
India for its recent efforts to expand relations with the 
Pacific Community and to enhance regional cooperation 
aimed  at  achieving  mutual  goals  of  environmental 
recovery  and  economic  development.  Palau  reiterates 
its  support  for  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  so 
as  to  allow  the  Council  to  reflect  more  closely  the 
issues  of  today’s  world,  including  the  security  needs 
and concerns of the Asia-Pacific region. In that respect, 
expanding  the  permanent  membership  category  to 
include India would be welcome.
Finally,  we  would  like  also  to  recognize  the  very 
broad  list  of  partners  across  the  globe  that  make  our 
efforts towards a sustainable future possible, including 
the  Governments  of  Australia  and  New  Zealand 
and 
the  European  Union,  private  organizations, 
non-governmental organizations and civil society.
With 
the  adoption  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  we  have  reaffirmed  the 
commitment  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations to fundamental human rights. Inherent in that 
commitment  is  an  obligation  to  provide  appropriate 
support for the realization of that commitment. As my 
President often says, at the end of the day the success 
of the 2030 Agenda will depend on the strength of the 
partnerships we develop.
It is now time for the world community to develop 
those  partnerships  and,  through  them,  to  commit 
to  a  much  expanded  and  more  accessible  financing, 
technology  and  human-resource  capacity.  We  must 
now  match  our  collective  determination  to  promote 
social  progress  and  better  standards  of  living  with 
on-the-ground partnerships to fight poverty, protect the 
most  vulnerable  among  us  and  protect  the  one  planet 
that we call home.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Claude Stanislas Bouah-Kamon, Chair 
of the Delegation of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire.
Mr.  Bouah-Kamon  (Côte  d’Ivoire)  (spoke  in 
French):  On  behalf  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alassane 
Ouattara, President of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, and 
myself, I, like the Heads of State and Government who 
have preceded me in this Hall, would like to congratulate 
you  warmly,  Mr.  President,  on  your  election  to  the 
26/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session and to assure you of our support as you carry 
out your important and noble mission. I also wish to pay 
tribute  to  your  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam 
Kutesa,  for  the  excellent  work  accomplished  during 
his  tenure.  And  I  am  especially  pleased  to  salute  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  the  Secretary-General 
of our Organization, for his continued commitment to 
peace, security and development around the world.
As  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United  Nations,  which  coincides  with  the  adoption  of 
a new cycle of development — a bearer of hope — it is 
impossible not to feel moved by the intolerable human 
tragedy  of  migration  that  is  taking  place  before  our 
eyes, and I take this opportunity to bow to the memory 
of so many who have been lost in the Mediterranean. 
In the face of that unprecedented humanitarian drama, 
the  international  community  must  take  a  concerted, 
comprehensive  and  coherent  approach  to  finding  a 
humane  response  to  the  crisis  of  the  migrants  and 
refugees  who  are  risking  their  lives  to  flee  poverty, 
misery,  violence  and  wars.  We  must  all  share  in  that 
common responsibility.
In  1945,  when  the  world  was  still  just  emerging 
from the greatest military and humanitarian tragedy of 
our time, a few States, joined later by others, brought 
the United Nations to the baptismal font. The adoption 
of our Organization’s founding Charter inspired a great 
hope  in  the  nations  and  peoples  of  the  world,  a  hope 
of seeing humankind freed from the scourge of war to 
able to build a new world of peace, security and social 
progress. The theme of this year’s general debate, “The 
United  Nations  at  70:  a  new  commitment  to  action” 
offers us an excellent opportunity to take stock of the 
Organization’s achievements in relation to its Charter, 
and to consider its future in a world assailed by every 
possible kind of change.
The  United  Nations  enjoys  enormous  authority 
and  plays  an  irreplaceable  role  in  helping  humankind 
to  progress  on  the  basis  of  the  Organization’s  three 
essential pillars: peace, security and development. The 
70  years  of  its  existence  have  unquestionably  been 
marked  by  its  continually  growing  involvement  in 
promoting democracy and the independence of nations. 
The  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  adopted 
in 1948, called the world’s attention to cases of torture 
and  massive  violations  of  human  rights  and  created 
unprecedented 
international  pressure 
for  greater 
respect for human rights on a global scale.
When  considering 
the  Organization’s  major 
achievements,  it  is  also  important  to  note  the  end  of 
apartheid in South Africa, in which the United Nations 
was one of the main architects. It has played a similar 
role in promoting the rights of women, and in that regard, 
we should emphasize the historic World Conference on 
Women,  held  in  Mexico  in  1975,  and  the  memorable 
Fourth  Conference  in  Beijing  in  1995,  which  enabled 
us to define priorities and standards for women’s rights 
and gender equality.
In  the  area  of  peace  and  security,  peacekeeping 
operations  around  the  world  have  helped  save  many 
lives and restore stability. In that connection, I would 
like  to  reiterate  the  Ivorian  people’s  gratitude  for  the 
invaluable  role  that  the  United  Nations  played  and 
continues  to  play  at  our  side.  Thanks  to  its  valuable 
support,  Côte  d’Ivoire  has  begun  to  make  progress 
again, once again finding itself on the road to stability, 
growth and economic and social development.
threat.  Transnational  crime 
The  successes  that  have  been  achieved  under  the 
leadership of the United Nations should not blind us to 
the many challenges still facing the Organization and 
humankind. Indeed, peace and security are everywhere 
under 
is  expanding 
and  threatening  international  trade.  Incitement  to 
extremism,  including  by  terrorist  groups,  is  gaining 
ground. Boko Haram, which has become what amounts 
to  the  Islamic  State  in  West  Africa,  continues  to  sow 
desolation  and  terror.  Cybercrime  is  growing,  and 
poverty,  despite  efforts  to  eradicate  it,  remains  an 
abiding concern and an obstacle to the development and 
well-being of peoples.
Besides  such 
threats,  we  are  witnessing 
the 
persistence of internal and regional conflicts in many 
parts of the world. The international community must 
be vigilant regarding the conflicts in the Middle East 
and the situations in Syria, Libya and Western Sahara. 
Concerning the issue of Western Sahara, Côte d’Ivoire 
would  like  to  affirm  its  support  for  the  negotiation 
process  being  conducted  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United  Nations,  and  we  call  on  the  parties  to  display 
a  spirit  of  compromise  in  order  to  settle  the  dispute 
within the framework of the relevant Security Council 
resolutions and Morocco’s autonomy plan.
Our  peoples  have  great  and  urgent  expectations, 
and  they  believe  that  it  is  up  to  the  United  Nations 
to  demonstrate  a  new  commitment  to  action.  That 
commitment should be embodied in the implementation 
15-29946
27/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
of the programmes of the new post-2015 development 
agenda in the form of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1),  which  the  Assembly 
adopted at the special Summit devoted to promoting the 
new Sustainable Development Goals. 
new  consensual  paradigm  for  development,  the  most 
difficult task is still ahead of us. Each State needs to 
operationalize  all  of  those  programmes  through  the 
establishment of appropriate policies and reforms at the 
national level.
The new 2030 Agenda gives us a historic opportunity 
to promote an ambitious development programme aimed 
at  significantly  reducing  poverty  and  hunger  around 
the world, improving people’s health and education and 
fighting the adverse effects of climate change together. 
It  should  also  promote  good  governance  measures, 
which will help to redistribute wealth to the poor and 
vulnerable  and  bring  back  a  genuine  partnership  for 
development so that we can build a world of prosperity, 
equality, security and peace, in the spirit and letter of 
the Charter of the United Nations. 
Poverty,  terrorism,  epidemics,  food  and  climate 
insecurity — today’s new threats to international peace 
and security — make fertile ground for the intolerance, 
fundamentalism  and  extremism  of  every  sort  that 
threaten the fragile edifice of world peace to which our 
populations legitimately aspire.
We  cannot  deny  that  the  world  is  facing  a  time 
of  great  challenges,  but  it  is  also  true  that  we  have  a 
historic  opportunity  to  strengthen  the  foundations 
for  inclusive  development  and  a  better  world  for  both 
current and future generations. I am therefore delighted 
that  this  seventieth  anniversary  coincides  with  a  year 
that  gives  us  hope.  Indeed,  the  third  International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development,  held  in 
Addis Ababa from 13 to 16 July, enabled us to agree on 
ways to implement the 2030 Agenda that we have just 
adopted. We need to finish the job at the twenty-first 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
to be held in December in Paris, in order to achieve a 
binding global commitment that will enable us to fight 
effectively against global warming.
The new development programme that we have just 
adopted capitalizes on the experience of the Millennium 
Development Goals and holistically integrates the three 
dimensions  of  sustainable  development,  namely  the 
economic, social and environmental dimensions. It puts 
us on the right path to make the transition to a better 
world for all humankind. 
While  we  are  justified  in  celebrating  the  new 
Agenda and its Sustainable Development Goals as the 
That  is  the  underlying  purpose  of  the  national 
development  plan  that  has  been  drawn  up  by  the 
Ivorian  Government  for  the  period  2016-2020  with 
a  view  to  making  Côte  d’Ivoire  an  emerging  country 
by 2020. Our objective is to halve the poverty rate in 
our  country.  With  regard  to  the  economy,  according 
to  the  World  Bank’s  report  Doing  Business  2015,  for 
the  second  consecutive  year  Côte  d’Ivoire  is  among 
the  10  countries  in  the  world  that  have  implemented 
the largest number of reforms to improve the business 
environment.
As  a  result  of  those  reforms,  Côte  d’Ivoire  has 
been among the front-runners of high-growth countries 
in  Africa  and  throughout  the  world  since  2012.  The 
average growth rate of the gross domestic product for 
the period 2012-2014 was above 9 per cent. During the 
past three years the per capita income has improved by 
about 20 per cent. In education, after introducing free 
schooling  in  2011,  the  Government  has  made  school 
attendance  compulsory  for  all  children  aged  from  6 
to  16  years,  beginning  with  the  current  school  year, 
in  order  to  translate  into  reality  the  right  of  all  girls 
and boys in our country to high-quality education and 
training.  With  regard  to  health,  in  order  to  provide 
medical  coverage  for  all  Ivorians,  we  have  initiated  a 
system of universal health coverage, thereby enabling 
the  most  disadvantaged  to  be  treated  in  the  various 
health units of our country.
The  year  2015,  which  is  slipping  rapidly  away, 
is  pivotal  also  because  on  25  October  our  open 
and  inclusive  general  elections  will  begin.  In  that 
connection,  I  welcome  the  decision  of  the  Security 
Council in resolution 2226 (2015), of 25 June 2015, to 
authorize the United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire 
to  provide  logistical  support  to  Côte  d’Ivoire  during 
the  elections.  For  its  part,  the  Government  of  Côte 
d’Ivoire, which has established a permanent framework 
for  dialogue  with  the  opposition,  will  do  everything 
possible to ensure the credibility of the electoral process 
in order to consolidate the newly found peace.
With regard to the national reconciliation process, 
the  National  Commission  for  Reconciliation  and 
Compensation  for  Victims,  which  the  Government 
28/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
established  to  complete  the  work  of  the  Dialogue, 
Truth  and  Reconciliation  Commission,  is  currently 
in 
the  process  of  compensating  victims.  The 
demobilization, disarmament and reintegration process 
has  been  successfully  completed  with  an  85  per  cent 
reintegration  rate  of  ex-combatants.  All  those  results 
will be sustainable only if the economy performs well. 
The economic recovery we have seen over the past four 
years,  with  a  constantly  increasing  growth  rate,  has 
benefited from the support of our partners, and I would 
like to thank them.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  emphasizing  that  the 
image  of  a  better  world  conjured  up  by  the  founding 
fathers  of  our  Organization  is  more  compelling  than 
ever. Our adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development opens up new prospects for development, 
for  the  benefit  of  peoples  everywhere.  We  therefore 
appeal to the proven leadership of the United Nations 
and call for the decisive impact it can make in helping 
to  push  back  the  frontiers  of  poverty  and  to  provide 
humankind with better access to safe drinking water, 
a  rapid  reduction  in  infant  mortality,  enhanced  food 
security and a healthy environment.
Time  is  of  the  essence.  The  time  has  come  for 
action.
The President: We have now heard the last speaker 
in the general debate.
I should like to make some closing remarks as we 
conclude our debate.
We  have  reached  the  end  of  a  historic  nine  days 
at  the  United  Nations  and  a  historic,  comprehensive 
general  debate.  This  year  we  saw  the  highest  number 
of Heads of State and Government ever gathered here 
to  discuss  challenges  and  opportunities  relating  to 
global peace, security, development and human rights. 
As  we  commemorated  the  seventieth  anniversary,  the 
fact that leaders recalled and reaffirmed the spirit and 
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and 
confirmed their faith in the central role of the United 
Nations  in  international  cooperation  was  fitting  and 
appropriate. The fact that a meeting with His Holiness 
Pope Francis and the Summit at which Member States 
adopted  the  universal  2030  Agenda  on  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  preceded  the  general 
debate was also apt. The 2030 Agenda is a truly seminal 
commitment by our community of nations.
At  the  outset,  let  me  thank  all  the  speakers  who 
addressed  generous  words  and  congratulations  to  me 
and promised their support. The seventieth session will 
be an exceptionally busy one, and the general debate has 
helped to identify the specific issues that the Member 
States  feel  deserve  our  dedicated  attention.  Since  the 
Summit  had  focused  on  sustainable  development,  I 
suggested that the general debate should focus on the 
road ahead for peace,security and human rights. 
One  of  the  matters  most  consistently  raised  over 
the past six days was the plight of refugees, internally 
displaced  persons  and  migrants  right  across  our 
world.  Speakers  stressed  again  and  again  that  this 
unprecedented crisis of global dimensions calls for an 
unprecedented global response rooted in international 
law  and  international  solidarity.  Building  on  the 
Secretary-General’s  meeting  this  week,  therefore,  I 
will attend the 2015 annual meetings of the World Bank 
Group  and  the  International  Monetary  Fund  in  Lima 
next Friday, at which finance ministers will be present. 
There, I will highlight the need for an immediate focus 
on  financing  the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals and the even more urgent need for 
a  comprehensive  financing  response  to  the  ongoing 
humanitarian  crisis.  Furthermore,  in  mid-  to  late 
November I will hold a meeting dedicated to the global 
refugee crisis.
The tragic humanitarian emergency in many parts 
of  the  world,  not  least  in  Syria  and  its  neighbouring 
countries,  was  repeatedly  highlighted  in  the  general 
debate. In relation to the Syrian conflict, many called 
for  a  renewed  effort  from  global  and  regional  Powers 
to  find  the  necessary  peaceful  political  solution.  The 
situation  in  other  parts  of  the  Middle  East,  including 
the  now  stalled  Middle  East  peace  process,  was  also 
highlighted as a major source of concern. In addition, 
many Member States stressed the need to address the 
particular obstacles to peace in Africa, parts of Europe 
and  beyond  that  stemmed  from  instability,  violent 
conflict  and  the  spread  of  extremism  and  terrorism. 
The radical actions of the Islamic State in Iraq and the 
Levant, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaab and other extremist 
groups were unanimously denounced and rejected as an 
affront to our common humanity.
With regard to the capacities of the United Nations 
itself for maintaining international peace and security, 
many acknowledged the Secretary-General’s initiative 
launching a review of United Nations peace operations, 
stressing  the  importance  of  prevention  as  key  to 
preserving peace and stability and the need to address 
the root causes of conflict. The growing role of regional 
15-29946
29/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
and  subregional  organizations  in  safeguarding  peace 
and security was highlighted.
Numerous  Member  States  also  highlighted  the 
critical  importance  of  addressing  challenges  related 
to  disarmament,  ranging  from 
threats  posed  by 
small  arms  and  light  weapons  all  the  way  to  nuclear 
non-proliferation.  In  that  connection,  the  nuclear 
agreement between Iran, the five permanent members 
of  the  Security  Council,  Germany  and  the  European 
Union was widely recognized as an important step and 
a significant diplomatic achievement. Similarly, many 
welcomed the re-establishment of diplomatic relations 
between Cuba and the United States.
The  pressing  need  to  address  climate  change  by 
reaching  an  agreement  in  Paris  at  the  forthcoming 
twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change was repeatedly raised by delegations, not least 
those  of  small  island  States  and  others  particularly 
vulnerable  to  the  effects  of  climate  change.  Indeed, 
since the beginning of the Summit last week, more than 
70  countries  have  submitted  their  intended  nationally 
determined contributions, bringing to 146 the number 
of parties that have demonstrated their belief that Paris 
can and must succeed, and that it can and must bring 
hope and opportunity to millions of people across the 
globe.
Looking  ahead,  many  leaders  identified  the  need 
for a successful conclusion to the 10-year review of the 
World  Summit  on  the  Information  Society.  They  also 
expressed hope that the special meeting on the global 
drug problem will be able to deliver concrete outcomes.
Concerning  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
numerous leaders recalled that universal implementation 
is now imperative, and that financing — including the 
need  for  developed  countries  to  meet  their  minimum 
target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income  for 
aid  —  as  well  as  technology  and  the  fight  against 
corruption are essential pieces of the puzzle.
In the field of health, we heard encouraging news 
from  West  Africa,  where  the  Ebola  epidemic,  while 
not  yet  over,  has  been  addressed  with  courage  and 
determination by the affected countries, with assistance 
from the United Nations and the wider world.
In  the  area  of  human  rights,  some  recalled  the 
challenges  around  the  world  related  to  discrimination 
against  various  groups  and  to  the  protection  of  the 
space in which civil society operates. Many also noted 
the importance of making further progress in realizing 
the  rights  of  women  and  girls.  The  high-level  review 
and  global  study  of  the  implementation  of  Security 
Council  resolution  1325  (2000),  on  women  and  peace 
and security, were highlighted by many as an important 
process for the coming year.
Turning to organizational and institutional matters, 
numerous  interventions  stressed  the  pressing  need 
to  reform  the  Security  Council  if  it  is  to  be  able  to 
effectively fulfil its mandate and reflect the geopolitical 
realities  of  the  world  of  today  and  tomorrow.  In  the 
same vein, hopes were expressed about the possibility 
of establishing a transparent process over the coming 
year in order to identify the next Secretary-General.
That is merely a synopsis of the many issues raised 
in  the  past  six  days.  The  breadth  and  depth  of  the 
discussions demonstrate once again that the task ahead 
of  our  Organization  is  enormous.  As  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  historic  seventieth  session,  I 
would  like  to  assure  members  that  I  will  do  all  I  can 
to  help  everyone  make  real  and  significant  progress 
across each of the three pillars.
In conclusion, I would like to express my sincere 
appreciation to all the staff of the United Nations who 
have  made  this  week  such  a  success.  In  particular,  I 
would  like  thank  our  colleagues  in  the  Department 
of  General  Assembly  and  Conference  Management, 
including  the  interpreters,  and  the  security,  catering 
and maintenance staff and others. Their professionalism 
has  been  outstanding  and  a  credit  to  themselves  and 
this great Organization.
Several  representatives  have  asked  to  speak  in 
exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  I  would  like  to  remind 
members  that  statements  in  exercise  of  the  right  of 
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention 
and five minutes for the second, and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Ms. Gae Luna (Indonesia): My delegation is taking 
the  floor  to  exercise  its  right  of  reply  to  statements 
made by the delegations of Tonga and Solomon Islands 
on  29  September  and  1  October,  respectively  (see 
A/70/PV.18  and  A/70/PV.23).  My  delegation  objects 
strongly  to  references  made  in  those  statements  to 
the so-called human rights issue in West Papua. They 
are  dangerously  misleading  and  therefore  compel  my 
delegation to set the record straight.
30/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
The  protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights 
has  always  been  one  of  my  Government’s  priorities. 
Indonesia’s  Constitution  and  national  laws  provide 
a  solid  guarantee  of  respect  for  the  human  rights  of 
every  person  in  Indonesia.  It  is  my  delegation’s  firm 
conviction that no country, big or small, developed or 
less  developed,  is  free  from  human  rights  problems, 
and  Indonesia  is  no  exception.  However,  as  a  mature 
democracy, the fourth largest in the world, Indonesia has 
put in place a robust national human rights protection 
system  and  continues  to  strengthen  its  human  rights 
institutions and legislation.
It  has  also  been  the  long-term  practice  of  the 
Government  of  Indonesia  to  work  together  with 
its  vibrant  national  civil  society  and  human  rights 
institutions  to  promote  and  protect  human  rights. 
Those institutions provide the checks and independent 
reviews  necessary  to  ensure  that  human  rights  are 
properly monitored and protected. In other words, the 
evolving national mechanisms in Indonesia are reliable 
and  capable  of  addressing  in  a  democratic  manner 
any  human  rights  issues  whenever  they  may  emerge, 
including  those  that  persist.  Indonesia  also  remains 
actively engaged regionally and globally, and continues 
to make meaningful contributions in the field of human 
rights, including by sharing its experiences in the areas 
of capacity-building and best practices in the protection 
and promotion of human rights.
We  respect  expressions  of  concern  made  by 
any  party  about  human  rights  situations  anywhere, 
including  in  Indonesia  generally  or  in  certain  parts 
of  the  country.  My  delegation  is  not  convinced, 
however,  that  the  references  in  the  statements  by  the 
aforementioned  delegations  are  appropriate  or  have 
any merit. Indeed, they contain inaccurate allegations 
concerning the human rights situation in certain parts 
of  Indonesia  and  indicate  political  motivation  beyond 
human rights considerations. Furthermore, they include 
a misrepresentation of the facts.
The  Government  of  Indonesia  continues  to  invest 
significant resources in and to pay close attention to the 
development of all areas of life in its provinces of Papua 
and  West  Papua,  and  this  includes  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights.  The  two  provinces  enjoy 
wide-ranging  autonomy,  guaranteed  by  national  laws, 
including in the election of governors and other heads 
of regional governments. The Government continues to 
do its utmost to be accountable to the peoples of Papua 
and West Papua, including in the areas of human rights.
The  Government  of  Indonesia  attaches  great 
importance to its relations with Pacific Island countries, 
as some peoples of Indonesia have strong commonalities 
with  the  peoples  of  the  Pacific  Islands  region.  It  has 
been  our  national  policy  to  cherish  commonalities  as 
a way of bridging diversity. Therefore, let me reiterate 
that  the  Government  of  Indonesia  is  committed  to 
continuing its engagement, in good faith, with Pacific 
Island  countries  for  common  peace  and  prosperity  in 
the region.
Mr.  Va’inga  Tone 
thank  you, 
Mr.  President,  for  giving  me  the  opportunity  to 
respond  to  the  comments  made  by  the  representative 
of Indonesia.
(Tonga): 
I 
At  the  outset,  let  me  state  that  Tonga  values  its 
diplomatic  relations  with  Indonesia.  It  recognizes  the 
sovereignty  of  Indonesia  over  its  population  and  its 
affairs.  However,  Tonga,  having  received  reports  of 
alleged  human  rights  violations,  has  concerns  about 
these  reports.  It  proposes  the  holding  of  a  friendly 
dialogue  among  Indonesia,  Tonga  and  other  Pacific 
Island  countries  to  improve  understanding  and  to 
conduct a fact-finding mission, with the cooperation of 
Indonesia, to learn more about these allegations.
Tonga holds Indonesia and its diplomatic relations 
with  Indonesia  in  high  regard  and  simply  would  like 
to  register,  as  has  been  said  by  my  Prime  Minister, 
its  concerns  about  the  allegations  concerning  human 
rights  violations.  However,  there  is  room  for  further 
dialogue. As part of the proposed solution for this and 
to address its concerns, Tonga would like to engage in 
further dialogue with Indonesia.
Mrs.  Vadiati  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I 
requested the floor to speak in exercise of the right of 
reply in reaction to the baseless remarks made by the 
representative of Bahrain in his statement yesterday in 
this Assembly (see A/70/PV.25). He repeated fabricated 
allegations, accusing Iran of intervening in the domestic 
affairs  of  Bahrain.  We  reject  these  allegations  and 
reiterate that they are illusory and fabricated.
The  accusations  that  the  Bahraini  representative 
levelled  against  Iran  are  all  the  more  worthless  in 
that  they  amount  to  desperate  efforts  to  cover  up  the 
violation by his Government of the basic rights of the 
majority of the Bahraini people. In those efforts, he also 
sought to justify the rule of the minority on the island 
and the blatant trampling of the rights of the majority, 
who are deprived of any meaningful participation in the 
15-29946
31/33
A/70/PV.28 
03/10/2015
running of the country. There should be no doubt that 
as long as a minority continues to suppress the right of 
the  majority  of  the  population,  no  attempt,  including 
putting the blame on outsiders, will ever help to resolve 
the problems.
More  outlandish  and  bizarre  were  the  comments 
by  the  representative  of  Bahrain  and  later  by  the 
representative of the United Arab Emirates (see A/70/
PV.26) in reaction to Iran’s remarks about the way the 
Hajj pilgrimage was organized in Mecca this year and 
the  way  the  pilgrims  were  treated.  It  is  obvious  that 
the  statements  made  by  those  two  representatives  are 
unwarranted  and  certainly  unhelpful,  as  that  issue  is 
none of their business.
A wrong appellation was used by the representatives 
of  Bahrain  and  the  United  Arab  Emirates  in  their 
statements, apparently in reference to the body of water 
situated between the Arabian peninsula and the Iranian 
plateau.  They  should  know,  as  the  entire  world  does, 
that the historical and formally recognized appellation, 
including by the United Nations, for that body of water 
is the Persian Gulf. It has been so since the fifth century 
B.C. and has remained the same to the current day. The 
same proper name was also used by the Arab people of 
that time and in all Arab texts up through the political 
turmoil in the 1960s. It is unfortunate that, despite the 
fading of the political rationale behind this distortion, 
some Arab officials still continue to use this outdated 
and  Cold  War-tainted  term.  Needless  to  say,  that 
politically motivated change in geographical names is 
rejected by the relevant United Nations committees and 
conferences,  as  it  creates  tension  and  has  many  other 
adverse consequences. 
Similarly, with respect to the remarks on the issue 
of  the  three  Iranian  islands,  the  Government  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran reiterates its full sovereignty 
over  the  Iranian  islands  of  Abu  Musa,  Greater  Tunb 
and  Lesser  Tunb  in  the  Persian  Gulf  and  underlines 
that decisions and measures applied in those islands by 
the Iranian authorities have always been based on the 
principle of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of 
Iran. Therefore, any claims to the contrary are deemed 
as interference in the internal affairs of Iran, which is 
categorically rejected.
The  Government  of  Iran  has  always  pursued  a 
policy of friendship and good neighbourliness with all 
neighbouring countries and, in this context, once again 
expresses its readiness to engage in bilateral talks with 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  with  a  view  to  continuing 
to  strengthen  bilateral  relations  and  removing  any 
misunderstandings  that  may  exist  between  the  two 
countries. Meanwhile, it is obvious that the territorial 
integrity  and  sovereignty  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran over the said islands is not negotiable.
Iran  categorically  rejects  the  allegations  that  the 
representative  of  Canada  levelled  againt  my  country 
earlier in this meeting. From his remarks, it is clear how 
deeply Canada’s conservative Government grieves the 
loss of the smokescreen it needed to hide its years of 
pursuing  a  policy  of  distorting  facts  directed  against 
the Islamic Republic of Iran and how deeply they resent 
the  nuclear  deal  between  Iran  and  the  P5+1,  because 
it  undermines  their  policy  of  Iranophobia.  It  is  no 
wonder  that  Canada,  with  a  very  questionable  human 
rights record — in particular with regard to the rights 
of  immigrants,  African  Canadians  and  indigenous 
people  —  and  also  as  a  relentless  supporter  of  the 
Israeli  crimes  against  the  Palestinians,  has  pursued 
the old, worn-out policy of the so-called champion of 
human rights.
Mr.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands):  In  response  to  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Indonesia 
in  right  of  reply,  Solomon  Islands  would  like  to  first 
reiterate  our  deep  respect  for  Indonesia’s  sovereignty 
and our relations with that country. We also take note of 
the statement made by the representative of Indonesia.
We  would  like  to  reiterate  that  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  is  based  on  three  pillars:  peace 
and  security,  human  rights,  and  development.  My 
delegation also wishes to reiterate that all States have a 
legal duty and a moral responsibility to uphold, respect 
and  promote  human  rights  and,  when  necessary,  take 
preventive,  protective  and  punitive  measures  against 
human rights abuses and violations, in accordance with 
the Charter and applicable international law.
On  the  issue  of  human  rights  violations  in  Papua 
and  West  Papua,  we  have  made  it  clear  in  our  prior 
statement  to  the  General  Assembly  (see  A/70/PV.23) 
that  we  would  like  to  work  with  Indonesia  and  with 
all  members  of  the  United  Nations  Human  Rights 
Council  —  that  is,  within  the  multilateral  system  —
on  this  particular  issue.  We  therefore  welcome  what 
has  been  said  by  the  representative  of  Indonesia.  We 
welcome  Indonesia’s  commitment  to  work  in  good 
faith not only with Solomon Islands, not only with the 
Pacific  Islands  Forum  countries,  but  with  all  of  us  in 
32/33 
15-29946
03/10/2015 
A/70/PV.28
terms of addressing human rights violations wherever 
they may occur.
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to 
consider this sub-item directly in plenary meeting?
In this respect, I wish to underscore that we seek 
dialogue and cooperation with Indonesia, as alluded to 
by the leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum, and would 
like to work with that country in order to address some 
of these issues within the framework of the Charter of 
the United Nations and international law.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 8?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 7 (continued)
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items
Second report of the General Committee 
(A/70/250/Add.1)
The  President:  In  paragraph  1  (a)  of  its  second 
report, the General Committee decides to recommend 
to  the  General  Assembly  that  an  additional  sub-item 
entitled 
the  Under-Secretary-
General  for  Internal  Oversight  Services”  be  included 
in  the  agenda  of  the  current  session  under  heading  I, 
“Organizational, administrative and other matters”.
“Appointment  of 
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides 
to  include  this  sub-item  in  the  agenda  of  the  current 
session under heading I?
It was so decided.
The  President:  In  paragraph  1  (b),  the  General 
Committee  further  recommends  that  the  sub-item  be 
considered directly in plenary meeting.
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  should  like  to  inform  members 
that the sub-item entitled “Appointment of the Under-
Secretary-General  for  Internal  Oversight  Services” 
becomes sub-item (i) of item 114 on the agenda of the 
current session.
In  paragraph  2  (a)  of  the  report,  the  General 
Committee recommends to the General Assembly that 
an  additional  item  entitled  “Observer  status  for  the 
Union for the Mediterranean in the General Assembly” 
be included in the agenda of the current session under 
heading  I,  “Organizational,  administrative  and  other 
matters”.
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to 
include  this  item  in  the  agenda  of  the  current  session 
under heading I?
It was so decided.
The  President:  In  paragraph  2  (b),  the  General 
Committee  further  recommends  that  the  item  be 
allocated to the Sixth Committee. May I take it that the 
General Assembly decides to allocate this item to the 
Sixth Committee?
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  should  like  to  inform  Members 
that  the  item  “Observer  status  for  the  Union  for  the 
Mediterranean in the General Assembly” becomes item 
174 on the agenda of the current session. The Chair of 
the Sixth Committee will be informed of the decision 
just taken by the General Assembly.
The meeting rose at 12.35 p.m.
15-29946
33/33
