United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
21st plenary meeting
Wednesday, 30 September 2015, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.21
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Michel Tommo 
Monthe (Cameroon), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.40 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Trade of the Independent State of Samoa
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister and Minister for 
Foreign Affairs and Trade of the Independent State of 
Samoa.
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele 
Malielegaoi, Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign 
Affairs and Trade of the Independent State of Samoa, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Malielegaoi (Samoa): Last Friday ushered in a 
new era in our search for an innovative plan of action for 
people and the planet. The significant milestone event 
was the adoption by the United Nations of the new set 
of Sustainable Development Goals as part of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1).
Our  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  are 
inspirational and ambitious. They are global in nature 
and  universally  applicable  to  every  United  Nations 
Member State, developed and developing alike. Every 
Goal is important and deserves priority attention. They 
are  interrelated,  they  carry  equal  weight  and  they  all 
matter. Achieving some Goals at the expense of others 
is  not  a  preferred  option.  All  Goals  must  be  realized, 
which should be the overriding objective.
In  my  firm  belief  in  the  importance  of  the  work 
of our Organization, I have tried to attend the annual 
General  Assembly  debates  as  often  as  possible  since 
becoming  Samoa’s  Prime  Minister.  I  am  therefore 
acutely  aware  of  the  diversity  and  gravity  of  issues 
confronting our Organization and the need sometimes 
to refer to them in one’s statement. However, partly in 
recognition of the new Agenda we have now agreed to 
implement and as a gesture to the seventieth anniversary 
of our Organization and the imminent danger of climate 
change  for  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS), 
my  statement  in  essence  is  devoted  to  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  13,  “Take  urgent  action  to  combat 
climate change and its impacts”. That is also a priority 
goal enshrined in the SIDS Accelerated Modalities of 
Action  (SAMOA)  Pathway,  the  outcome  document  of 
the third International Conference on SIDS.
Climate  change  will  continue  to  be  the  major 
preoccupation  and  priority  policy  determinant  for 
Samoa well into the future. I think that the same would 
be true for all our Pacific island countries and the wider 
SIDS. Thus, to contextualize our perspective on climate 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29701 (E)
*1529701*
A/70/PV.21 
30/09/2015
change, allow me to share with representatives a part of 
our narrative.
First, here are some givens. Climate change is the 
single most urgent challenge confronting humankind; it 
is facilitated largely by human-induced activities driven 
for the most part by profit motives, with some degree 
of insensitivity to the consequences of such action on 
others, particularly those vulnerable to the impacts of 
climate  change,  who  are  usually  ill-prepared  to  adapt 
and in most cases had barely contributed to the causes 
of climate change in the first place.
Climate  change  is  not  a  future  phenomenon.  It  is 
real,  irreversible  and  is  already  happening  with  far 
more  frequency.  It  is  no  longer  a  question  of  when; 
rather, it is about the severity of the magnitude of the 
impacts and the full cost society must bear. Even now 
in  my  country,  we  are  suffering  drought  conditions. 
These will give way to the onset of the cyclone season, 
which is predicted to have a high likelihood of severe 
cyclones in our Pacific region.
As this is a cross-cutting issue, ambitious actions 
or solutions at the national and international levels to 
try  to  address  the  root  causes  of  climate  change  will 
inevitably  end  up  either  being  compromised,  watered 
down or put aside due to political, social and economic 
considerations  taking  precedence  over  basic  climate 
logic. Climate change is not a concern of small island 
developing States alone; it impacts every country, but 
some — such as small island developing States — more 
extensively  like  than  others  because  our  capacity  to 
respond  quickly  and  effectively  is  constrained  by  our 
realities.
In  summary,  climate  change  cannot  be  wished 
away.  It  is  real,  irreversible  and  already  happening. 
It  has  significant  security  implications  and  its  impact 
threatens the continued existence and viability of some 
small  island  developing  States.  Even  those  countries 
that to date have been in denial of the climate change 
phenomenon  must  surely  now  accept  the  weight  of 
scientific evidence.
Samoa  is  a  small  island  developing  State  of  the 
Pacific,  a  region  recognized  and  acknowledged  as 
most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. Our 
islands  contributed  the  least  to  the  causes  of  climate 
change, yet stand to suffer the most and are least able to 
adapt effectively to the adverse impacts.
Climate  change  is  a  security  risk  of  far  greater 
proportions than many people are prepared to admit. For 
some  of  the  low-lying  Pacific  islands,  climate  change 
may well lead to their eventual extinction as sovereign 
States.  Just  a  few  months  ago,  I  was  privileged  to 
attend the special Security Council open debate on the 
security  concerns  of  SIDS  (see  S/PV.7499).  It  was  an 
important opportunity to highlight in the Council the 
security threat posed by climate change to all our small 
island developing States.
Against  the  backdrop  of  the  existential  threat 
climate  change  poses,  especially  to  atolls  and  low-
lying islands, SIDS have long advocated for ambitious 
mitigation efforts to be undertaken by Member States 
with  the  capacity  to  do  so,  and  for  a  global  goal  of 
limiting the rise in average global temperature to well 
below 1.5°C in order to prevent some of our low-lying 
islands  from  being  submerged  by  sea-level  rise.  We 
have  also  consistently  called  for  a  loss  and  damage 
mechanism to be anchored in a new Paris agreement to 
be treated separately from adaptation. With the gradual 
operationalization  of  the  Green  Climate  Fund,  we 
have asked SIDS representatives on the Green Climate 
Fund  Board  to  ensure  that  the  spirit  and  letter  of  the 
governing  instrument  of  the  Fund,  as  they  relate  to 
those areas that will be beneficial to SIDS, are retained 
and not compromised.
Our pleas over the years on the 1.5°C and the loss 
and  damage  caused  by  climate  change  have  largely 
gone  unnoticed.  At  least  the  countries  our  messages 
had been intended for have remained unconvinced, but 
I hope not uninterested. Part of this, I think, is due to 
some  misguided  notion  that  climate  phenomena  and 
related  events  affect  small  island  developing  States 
only. Some might have concluded already that climate 
change is not life-threatening and does not affect them, 
either because their countries are huge in size or have 
well-developed infrastructure to shield them from any 
real damage from climate change impacts.
It  may  also  be  that  there  is  an  implied  sense  that 
if  the  large  problems  of  the  bigger,  stronger,  more 
populous  and  well-developed  countries  are  solved, 
then  the  solutions  to  the  afflictions  of  SIDS  will 
automatically  follow.  As  a  result,  challenges  facing 
SIDS  are  conveniently  viewed  by  others  through  the 
same lens that blurs the distinctions and fails to bring 
out the truth about the urgency and dire consequences 
of the problems we face because of climate change.
2/28 
15-29701
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.21
But times are changing and the world has witnessed 
in recent months and years an epic outbreak of horrific 
natural disasters unprecedented in the 70-year history of 
our  Organization.  Tsunamis,  hurricanes,  earthquakes, 
flooding, bush fires and droughts have resulted in the 
loss of countless lives and untold sorrow and suffering. 
Especially  noteworthy  is  the  fact  that  developed 
countries  are  no  longer  insulated  from  the  reach  and 
destructive  force  of  these  events.  Some  countries  and 
regions have been visited by climate-related and natural 
events like cyclones, bush fires, flooding, earthquakes, 
volcanic eruptions, droughts, tornados, and so on.
What  is  happening  across  our  planet  is  quite 
significant because it discredits the perception long held 
by some that climate change is a small island developing 
States concern only. Nothing could be further from the 
truth. Events of the recent past have demonstrated that 
climate-related  disasters  do  not  discriminate  between 
poor and rich countries, big or small. Climate change 
affects  us  all,  developed  and  developing  countries 
alike, although in varying degrees. I submit therefore 
that this realization should shape our overall approach 
going forward to the Paris Climate Change Conference 
in  December  and  beyond.  It  should,  I  hope,  also  help 
to  shift  the  focus  in  the  relationship,  in  the  specific 
context of climate change, from that of donor/recipient 
or  donor/victim  to  one  of  partner/partner  in  a  joint 
partnership.
While  that  may  sound  overly  simplified,  its  real 
value  lies  in  the  change  of  perspective  which  this 
reorientation  should  bring  and  in  how  we  view  our 
respective roles when trying to address climate change. 
This, I think, should be beneficial to all. Because we 
are  now  all  affected  by  climate  change  in  one  way 
or  another,  that  should  energize  everyone  to  do  their 
utmost,  either  as  current  or  future  victims  of  climate 
change impacts, so as to ensure that we address the root 
causes urgently and in a decisive manner.
After all, human nature tells us that when we are 
asked  to  do  something  for  a  friend  or  someone  else, 
the impact is not the same because there is no sense of 
obligation, commitment or urgency. But when we have 
to  do  something  because  it  will  affect  us  personally, 
our  children  or  family,  nothing  will  prevent  us  from 
doing all that is possible within our power, especially if 
it affects our own safety and future. I hope that Member 
States, imbued not just with the projections of science 
but now with the advanced evidence of actual events, 
will be prepared to go the extra mile to do the maximum 
possible for their own future survival.
Climate  change  is  a  societal  problem  requiring 
a  decisive  response  from  the  global  community.  It 
is  a  challenge  that  should  unite  us,  not  divide  us.  No 
country  can  deal  with  this  problem  alone.  We  must 
work  cooperatively  in  a  partnership  of  common  but 
differentiated responsibilities and respective capability 
if  we  are  to  succeed.  But  true  partnerships  should 
be  underpinned  by  trust.  Without  trust,  they  cannot 
be  sustained.  Apportioning  blame  for  past  wrongs 
would  be  counterproductive;  it  would  not  restore  our 
environment to its pre-industrial state.
Clearly we want leaders who view the world as a 
single constituency where everyone must work together 
within  the  limits  of  their  capacity  and  capability 
to  be  part  of  the  total  solution.  Sadly,  some  in  our 
global  community  have  been  dismissive  and  remain 
unconvinced. Others, through their actions, have been 
indifferent  and  unsympathetic.  But  there  is  hope, 
and  our  whole  focus  is  on  Paris.  What  is  needed  is 
principled  action.  The  Paris  agreement  will  require  a 
new brand of cooperation and a broader outlook. The 
narrow pursuit of self-interests, the use of economic and 
political expediencies should be set aside and must not 
be allowed to derail the goal of concluding a universal, 
ambitious and legally binding agreement.
Climate  change  is  also  everyone’s  job.  While 
acknowledging  that  historical  responsibility  is  real, 
allowing  it  to  get  in  the  way  of  making  decisions  to 
reach  a  comprehensive  agreement  would  be  a  grave 
mistake. A durable climate change agreement in Paris 
will therefore be a test of multilateral solidarity. Time is 
running out. The impacts of climate change are getting 
worse  daily.  Playing  the  blame-and-shame  tactics  or 
waiting to be led but not willing to lead are no longer 
options, for no single nation, no single group of nations 
and no single organization on its own can win the war 
against climate change. The divergent, yet inextricably 
linked interests of Member States demand that we seal 
a good deal in Paris.
The Paris agreement should focus on bold national 
action  and  the  inclusion  of  all  stakeholders;  it  should 
be  a  timely  reminder  that  no  action  is  too  small  or 
insignificant.  All  contributions  matter  and  every 
action counts, irrespective of the source. Importantly, 
it  must  place  the  responsibility  of  addressing  climate 
change squarely on every individual leader in terms of 
15-29701
3/28
A/70/PV.21 
30/09/2015
what national actions he or she can commit to deliver 
as  his  or  her  country’s  contribution  to  our  collective 
task. Samoa is putting the final touches to its intended 
nationally  determined  contributions,  which  are  quite 
ambitious  and  will  be  submitted  in  due  course  to  the 
secretariat in Bonn.
Often at times we blame others for our misfortunes 
and  the  current  status  of  our  development,  including 
by  telling  others  what  they  should  do,  by  when  and 
how, but rarely saying what we can contribute to make 
a  change.  So  when  my  country  and  our  people  are 
continuously exposed to the impacts of climate change, 
we  want  to  be  part  of  the  solution  by  committing  to 
doing everything possible for the benefit of our people, 
our  generation  and  those  to  follow.  That  must  be  our 
universal message, simple and unambiguous.
As for those suggesting that they are implementing 
bold actions for the sake of our vulnerable small island 
developing States, they should instead be reminded to 
take time to inform their constituencies and supporters 
alike,  especially  those  who  deny  climate  change,  that 
in the final analysis the actions being recommended, if 
implemented, will ultimately benefit their economies, 
their own people and the survival of their own countries.
The United Nations remains our last best hope to 
provide the political will and the commitment necessary 
to turn the tide against climate change. Samoa calls upon 
those States Members of our Organization in a position 
of  world  leadership  to  lead  the  charge  in  finding  and 
implementing solutions to the causes of climate change. 
As present custodians of our world’s environment, we 
owe it to our children and future generations to do what 
needs to be done quickly and decisively before we run 
out of time. It is therefore imperative to complete the 
Paris  climate  agreement  in  time  for  the  twenty-first 
session  of  the  Conference  of  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
in December to adopt an agreement that is ambitious, 
universally  applicable,  effective,  binding,  capable 
of  swift  implementation  and  universally  owned  and 
respected by all Member States.
In the same way that nations in leadership roles are 
called on to do the right thing for our world, so must 
all  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations  uphold  their 
part of the bargain in the work that needs to be done. 
Without  that  cooperation  on  the  part  of  all  Member 
States, reaching the objectives we all know should be 
achieved will continue to elude us.
International terrorism is a global menace. It creates 
an  atmosphere  of  collective  fear  and  intolerance.  It 
preys on the innocent, vulnerable and defenceless, and 
disrupts any progress towards peace and development. 
Terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations  should 
always  be  condemned  unreservedly.  Over  the  past 
several weeks, we have witnessed the tragedy of people 
fleeing  their  countries  mired  in  the  destruction  from 
war  and  terrorism.  Obviously,  a  credible  and  long-
term  response  is  needed  to  this  grave  crisis,  which 
has  cost  so  many  lives  and  affected  so  many  people. 
The individual actions of States cannot in themselves 
provide a solution. We must shoulder our responsibility 
to act together to meet the threat through the concerted 
multilateral  action  that  underpins  the  spirit  of  the 
Organization.  Ideally,  it  must  start  in  the  Security 
Council, which is entrusted with the responsibility of 
maintaining world peace.
The  coherence  of  the  response  of  the  United 
Nations  depends  on  the  work  and  cooperative  spirit 
of the Security Council to see the larger picture of the 
future  of  our  world.  The  reforms  to  our  Organization 
must therefore be given priority and take account of the 
concerns of our full membership. Our world has enjoyed 
peace and security for 70 years by faithfully observing 
and  following  the  Charter  of  our  Organization.  As 
world  leaders,  it  is  our  moral  duty  and  responsibility 
to ensure that our people continue to live in peace and 
harmony for many more years to come.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish 
the  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of  the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
thank 
to 
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the 
Independent State of Samoa, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Haider Al Abadi, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Iraq
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Iraq.
Mr. Haider Al Abadi, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Iraq, was escorted to the rostrum.
4/28 
15-29701
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.21
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Haider Al Abadi, Prime 
Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Iraq,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Al  Abadi  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
seventieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  being 
held amidst the grave challenges the world is facing on 
more  than  one  level,  especially  in  fighting  terrorism, 
foremost among which is the terrorism of the Islamic 
State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham  (ISIS).  We  in  Iraq  stand 
steadfastly and patiently with the world to ward off the 
monstrosity of those whose actions affect our country, 
the  region  and  the  world.  This  is  happening,  while 
international efforts continue to strengthen the pillars 
of peace and security, promote communication among 
the peoples of the world and attain human development. 
These  efforts  are  all  made  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United Nations, which has worked tirelessly to uphold 
its  major  pillars  of  health  care,  education  and  raising 
living standards.
Since the United Nations Development Programme 
launched  its  first  Human  Development  Report  in 
1990, the countries of the world, including Iraq, have 
anticipated improvements in their human development 
levels. We have pursued this goal so that people would 
become  the  means  and  targets  of  the  development 
process. As a result of the flawed policies of the past 
dictatorial regime of Saddam Al-Hussein, the standard 
of  human  development  fell  after  a  series  of  wars  that 
were  fought  by  that  regime  and  the  deprivations  and 
siege  that  Iraq  suffered  as  a  result  of  international 
sanctions.
The  situation  improved  after  the  political  regime 
changed  and  once  a  democratic  atmosphere  was 
promoted, particularly with the assistance provided by 
the United Nations, its specialized agencies and other 
international  organizations.  Our  national  institutions 
tried  to  bridge  the  development  gap  in  fulfilment  of 
the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  adopted 
by the leaders of the world at the General Assembly in 
2000 by concentrating on targets that were supposed to 
have been achieved by 2015.
We  in  Iraq  made  tangible  progress  in  decreasing 
mortality rates, increasing school enrolment, reducing 
gender  inequality  and  improving  living  standards. 
However  the  ill-will  of  terrorist  groups,  foremost 
among which are Al-Qaida and ISIS, as well as those 
associated with the old Ba’ath regime who joined them, 
obstructed  our  development  process  and  spread  death 
and  destruction  on  our  people  and  infrastructure.  In 
persisting  in  their  atrocities,  those  terrorists  did  not 
distinguish  between  an  infant  and  an  elderly  person, 
or  between  a  man  and  a  woman.  These  evil  forces 
terrorized  civilians  throughout  Iraq  and  pursued  a 
policy  of  ethnic  cleansing,  particularly  in  those  areas 
that  they  claimed  to  support.  Many  people  who  once 
lived in the western and northern parts of Iraq are today 
refugees  or  displaced  internally  by  these  merciless 
gangsters. They are suffering with those who are still 
besieged in their villages and cities.
While  we  highly  appreciate  the  support  and 
solidarity  extended  to  us  by  the  United  Nations  and 
the  international  community  in  our  just  war  against 
terrorism, we also recognize the tireless efforts made to 
restore stability to the regions that have been liberated 
by our armed forces, the popular mobilization forces and 
the tribal fighters. We also look forward to an effective 
contribution on the part of countries and international 
organizations  to  repairing  our  infrastructure  and 
helping our reconstruction efforts.
Despite  all  this,  Iraq  is  pursuing  its  democratic 
policies  to  promote  respect  for  the  Constitution,  the 
peaceful  transition  of  power,  freedom  of  expression, 
and  the  elimination  of  racial  ethnic  and  sectarian 
discrimination.  Despite  the  challenges,  we  are  aware 
of  public  demands  and  have  worked  to  establish  an 
organizational  framework  known  as 
the  Popular 
Mobilization Committee, which receives its instructions 
from  the  President  of  the  Republic  and  the  armed 
forces.  Thus,  the  popular  mobilization  forces  operate 
within  the  law  as  they  fight  terrorists  and  organized 
crime,  particularly  those  who  carry  arms  outside  the 
framework  of  the  State.  The  Iraqi  Constitution  bans 
carrying arms outside the legal framework of the State.
The  Iraqi  security  forces  protect  demonstrators 
and give them full freedom to express their demands. 
While we may be in a state of war, many governorates 
have  peaceful  demonstrations  and  there  are  excellent 
relations  between  the  demonstrators  and  the  security 
forces. This is a unique experience indeed. I personally 
decided to entrust a working task force to follow up the 
demands of the demonstrators so that we can assist in 
implementing these demands.
The  Iraqi  Council  of  Representatives  has  enacted 
the  Government’s  programme  of  work.  The  Council 
represents  the  Iraqi  people.  We  have  adopted  a 
15-29701
5/28
A/70/PV.21 
30/09/2015
progressive vision of reform, sanctioned by the highest 
religious  authority.  We  have  listened  to  the  demands 
that our people expressed over the past two months. We 
have therefore provided economic, administrative and 
financial  reform  packages.  We  have  started  working 
to  invigorate  the  private  sector  in  our  country.  We 
have  provided  financing  for  small  and  medium-sized 
projects,  despite  the  difficulties  we  experienced  after 
the  huge  drop  in  oil  revenues,  which  account  for 
92  per  cent  of  our  income.  The  reform  package  was 
respectfully  accepted  by  our  people,  who  expressed 
their views in detail. The reform enjoys the support of 
the highest religious authorities and other stakeholders 
in  society.  We  are  determined  to  pursue  our  reform 
without disregarding our important role in directing the 
security and military effort to fight ISIS.
On behalf of the Iraqi people, I should like to salute 
the  efforts  of  the  brotherly  and  friendly  countries  in 
the  international  coalition  in  our  war  against  terror. 
Providing more support is very important because it is 
the Iraqis who are fighting this war. We therefore thank 
the  brotherly  countries  that  have  provided  assistance, 
but  would  request  further  assistance  to  address  the 
problems of refugees. Increased logistical and military 
support would bring us closer to our ultimate victory 
and promote peace and security in all countries of the 
world.
Iraq  understood  the  importance  of  international 
efforts  to  draft  a  new  development  document  to  be 
adopted  by  the  United  Nations  after  the  Millennium 
Declaration.  Iraqi  experts  and  national  institutions 
participated  in  the  international  efforts  made  in  our 
region  to  draft  the  new  Declaration  adopted  in  the 
context of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution 70/1). The importance of the Declaration is 
not limited to the pursuit of development for the human 
individual. It focuses on sustainability, which includes 
advocating a clean environment, the preservation of the 
rights of future generations, the promotion of peace and 
security, the elimination of poverty and discrimination, 
improving  the  health  and  educational  standards  of 
children and achieving wider freedoms, living in peace 
and  bridging  the  gap  between  the  poor  and  the  rich. 
These are only some of the reforms that we are trying 
to  attain  in  Iraq  today  by  bridging  these  gaps  and  by 
redressing the injustice experienced by many sectors in 
our society and the world.
The  important  items  included  in  the  post-2015 
Sustainable Development Goals and their achievement 
by 2030 require us all to work more tirelessly to achieve 
further cooperation among the peoples and countries of 
the  world,  instead  of  fighting  each  other.  That  would 
provide the United Nations with sufficient opportunity 
to  work  constructively  in  order  to  expedite  the 
achievement of these objectives and share its expertise 
through programmes to be undertaken throughout the 
world. Iraq will earnestly and enthusiastically work to 
achieve the Sustainable Development Goals within the 
time  frame  assigned.  We  know  that  this  development 
will affect not just Iraq alone but all countries, because 
no country can achieve sustainable development unless 
it is enjoyed by neighbouring countries as well.
Iraq expects all countries of the world to implement 
Security  Council  resolutions  2170  (2014),  2178  (2014) 
and  2199  (2015),  which  call  for  ending  all  support, 
financing  and  arming  to  terrorist  groups.  I  also  cite 
General  Assembly  resolution  69/281,  adopted  on 
25 May 2015 to salvage the cultural heritage of Iraq, the 
implementation of which would allow Iraq to rebuild its 
country and achieve development.
The  Government  and  people  of  Iraq  understand 
the  importance  of  communicating  with  the  peoples 
and Governments of the world. We are eager to build 
peace  and  understanding  in  our  region,  and  therefore 
we  seek  to  open  prospects  for  new  relations  with  the 
countries  of  the  region  and  to  promote  such  relations 
without interfering in the internal affairs of others so 
as to guarantee a bright future for us all.
The  political  process  in  Iraq  is  democratic  and 
governed  by  the  peaceful  turnover  of  power.  Five 
Governments  have  succeeded  each  other  in  Iraq;  our 
Government  is  the  latest  of  these  and  therefore  takes 
pride in our democratic processes. However, there are 
political blocs that have different points of view. We are 
proud of the fact that others have the right to express 
their  opinions,  which  shows  that  there  is  a  political 
sphere for the free expression of opinion.
Our  problem  in  Iraq  is  not  an  internal  one.  Our 
problem is that a terrorist group has crossed our border 
from  a  neighbouring  country.  That  organization  is 
supported and armed by others, has occupied vast areas 
of  Iraq  and  killed  thousands  of  Iraqis  and  violated 
their  rights.  ISIS  continues  to  recruit  thousands  of 
volunteers from throughout the world, but particularly 
from countries that have stressed their solidarity with 
Iraq. This terrorist organization receives assistance and 
weapons  and  continues  to  fight  us,  so  our  problem  is 
6/28 
15-29701
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.21
really an external one, embodied in the support enjoyerd 
by such terrorist organizations.
While  the  popular  mobilization  forces  in  Iraq 
are  a  legitimate  organization  that  is  supported  by  the 
Iraqi State, ISIS and associated entities are illegitimate 
terrorist  groups  that  do  not  respect  the  State  or  the 
law and kill anyone who happens to think differently. 
Even those who happen to confess the same faith have 
been killed and displaced by ISIS. More than 3 million 
people  have  been  displaced  by  ISIS  from  the  cities 
they once called home. We are eager to build relations 
with  our  neighbouring  countries.  We  respect  their 
sovereignty and do not interfere in their internal affairs. 
We therefore call on them to promote the same quality 
of  relationship.  We  want  them  not  to  interfere  in  our 
affairs and to respect Iraqi sovereignty and our right to 
uphold the sanctity of Iraqi lives.
In  conclusion,  I  thank  the  United  Nations  and 
other international organizations for supporting Iraq’s 
efforts to achieve development, and salute the efforts of 
international organizations and all other world leaders 
and their representatives. It is truly my hope that next 
year  we  will  meet  in  better  circumstances.  I  urge  all 
countries  of  the  region  to  work  together  to  achieve 
peace  instead  of  killing  and  destruction.  We  believe 
that each and every leader of the region must assume 
responsibility to stop the bloodshed. The leaders of the 
region have a responsibility to end this killing, which is 
an evil visited on humanity at large.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Iraq for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Haider Al Abadi, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Iraq, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Valeriu Strelet, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Moldova
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Moldova.
Mr. Valeriu Strelet, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Moldova, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Valeriu  Strelet,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Moldova, and inviting him 
to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Strelet  (Moldova):  I  am  most  delighted  and 
indeed honoured to represent my country for the first 
time  at  this  high  rostrum  and  to  address  the  General 
Assembly  at  this  anniversary  session.  The  seventieth 
anniversary of the signing of the Charter of the United 
Nations gives us the opportunity to learn lessons from 
the past and to reflect on the ways and means we need 
to  face  today’s  and  tomorrow’s  challenges  and  build 
together a better future for the coming generations.
We  are  all  proud  that  today  the  United  Nations 
remains the leader in maintaining peace and security and 
promoting sustainable development and human rights. 
The  Organization  also  remains  durably  at  the  core  of 
effective  multilateralism,  the  prominent  confirmation 
of which is the outcome document ( resolution 70/1) of 
the United Nations Summit on the adoption of the post-
2015 development agenda, held a few days ago here in 
New York.
In that respect, I have great pleasure in highlighting 
the fact that, throughout the entire preparatory process 
and  during  the  Summit,  the  Republic  of  Moldova 
advocated  the  adoption  of  the  new  development  road 
map,  which  bears  on  the  present  and  future  of  our 
planet.  The  integration  of  the  economic,  social  and 
environmental  pillars  of  the  new  framework  Agenda 
is  the  key  to  an  old  issue  that  the  United  Nations 
has  debated  for  years  —  the  essence  of  sustainable 
development and how to put it into practice.
With 
the  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, the United Nations and its Member States 
are  engaging  in  an  advanced  model  of  sustainable 
development for humankind that will address poverty 
and inequality and combat climate change. We support 
the United Nations and Member States’ initiatives and 
actions directed at addressing climate change through 
ambitious  measures  to  promote  clean  power  at  the 
national  and  international  levels.  We  believe  that  if 
everyone  put  their  shoulders  to  the  wheel,  we  would 
be more likely to reach the targets and create a better 
world.
The  Republic  of  Moldova  is  making  its  own 
contribution to the effort. The Sustainable Development 
Goals constitute an important chapter in the governing 
programme  for  the  future.  Among  many  of  our 
endeavours, we seek to increase the ratio of domestic 
renewable  energy  consumption  to  20  per  cent  by 
2020  and  to  promote  a  green  economy.  My  country 
is  on  track  to  ratify  the  Low-Emission  Development 
15-29701
7/28
A/70/PV.21 
30/09/2015
Strategies  and  Plans  and,  at  the  twenty-first  session 
of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  in  Paris, 
intends to support the European Union’s mechanisms for 
reaching these goals. Moreover, the implementation of 
the European Union-Moldova Association Agreement, 
concluded  last  year  in  Brussels  along  with  the  Deep 
and  Comprehensive  Free  Trade  Area  (DCFTA)  as  its 
component part, represents the strategic direction that 
complements our sustainable development efforts.
The  European  Union  agenda  and  the  United 
Nations  commitments  go  hand  in  hand  and  embody 
our  affiliation  with  the  universality  of  goals  and 
responsibilities  for  development  and  peace  by  way  of 
embracing  European  core  values  and  principles  and 
strengthening our partnerships in the region. The first 
anniversary  of  our  Association  Agreement  with  the 
European Union entitles us to assert that the progress 
achieved  in  different  fields  confirms  once  again  the 
sagacity of the choice made by the Republic of Moldova 
on  its  way  forward  to  European  integration.  The 
gradual implementation of the Association Agreement 
and  the  creation  of  the  DCFTA  zone  have  brought  us 
politically  and  economically  closer  to  the  European 
Union and helped us to advance in the development and 
modernization of the country and of Moldovan society 
in the spirit of European and universal values.
Although  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  given  its 
geographical  position  and  dimensions,  does  not  often 
manage  to  influence  the  international  agenda,  our 
experience  in  migration  managing,  gained  during  the 
implementation  of  the  action  plan  for  liberalizing  the 
visa  regime  and  the  Mobility  Partnership,  allowed 
us  to  become,  inter  alia,  an  important  voice  in  the 
Global  Forum  on  Migration  and  Development  and 
in  the  discussions  on  the  United  Nations  post-2015 
development agenda.
Nevertheless, much remains to be done. Reiterating 
the commitment assumed by the Republic of Moldova 
to  continuing  reforms  and  bringing 
the  country 
into  the  big  European  family,  we  are  fully  open  to  a 
further  efficient  dialogue  with  our  European  partners 
on  the  implementation  of  our  priorities,  including 
macrofinancial  stabilization,  reform  of  the  judiciary 
and prosecution systems, the fight against corruption, 
deepening  reform  of  public  administration,  education 
and social areas, and the consolidation of cooperation 
in ensuring energy security and the interconnection of 
transport  networks.  This  progress  has  been  achieved 
with the help of our development partners, and we are 
grateful to the European Union and its member States, 
especially our neighbour, Romania, and to the United 
States  for  their  continued  financial  and  technical 
assistance and unprecedented political support.
From the same perspective, in attaining the strategic 
objectives of European integration and the sustainable 
socioeconomic  development  of  the  country  we  also 
count  on  the  support  of  all  development  partners  and 
United  Nations  funds,  programmes  and  specialized 
agencies. In this respect, the cooperation and assistance 
programmes  of  the  International  Monetary  Fund  and 
the  World  Bank  are  of  invaluable  importance  to  my 
country. We firmly believe that, with the support and 
assistance of our development partners, we will firmly 
pursue the path of European integration.
The  world  we  live  in  is  becoming  increasingly 
turbulent  and  unsafe.  Illegitimate  military  force  and 
other forms of violence are widely used by States and 
non-State actors as a means to promote their interests. 
Gross  violations  of  international  law  and  a  dramatic 
decrease in trust among States have already undermined 
the central pillars of the international system.
Regrettably,  after  a  period  of  relative  stability, 
the system of security and cooperation in Europe has 
been  seriously  shaken.  The  annexation  of  Crimean 
by  the  Russian  Federation,  in  flagrant  violation  of 
international  law,  and  the  outbreak  of  armed  conflict 
in  the  eastern  regions  of  the  Ukraine  have  directly 
challenged  international  peace  and  security.  These 
major  negative  developments  have  reactivated  a 
fundamental question on our agenda: What should be 
done to restore order and ensure respect for the norms 
and principles of international law?
The  search  for  an  answer  will  take  time,  but  this 
exercise  is  very  much  needed.  In  the  meantime,  it  is 
critical to bring the military hostilities in the Donbas 
region  of  Ukraine  to  an  end.  The  continuation  of  the 
conflict  will  cause  more  suffering,  more  victims  and 
more  destroyed  infrastructure.  There  is  one  simple 
truth to be kept in mind — the longer a conflict goes 
on, the harder it is to find a sustainable solution. In this 
respect, the Republic of Moldova supports the peaceful 
settlement of the conflict in Donbas in accordance with 
the Minsk agreements and respect for the sovereignty 
and territorial integrity of the Ukraine. We express our 
solidarity  with  the  Ukrainian  people  at  this  difficult 
time.
8/28 
15-29701
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.21
The Republic of Moldova has also gone through a 
conflict.  For  more  than  two  decades,  my  country  has 
been divided as a result of the Transnistrian conflict. 
But  in  spite  of  external  and  domestic  challenges,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova  will  firmly  pursue  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  this  conflict.  By  restoring  trust  and 
promoting  dialogue,  we  should  move  step  by  step 
to  a  comprehensive  resolution  of  the  Transnistrian 
conflict.  The  solution  should  be  based  on  respect  for 
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic 
of  Moldova,  and  on  identifying  a  special  status  for 
the  Transnistrian  region  within  the  internationally 
recognized  borders  of  my  country.  We  express  our 
hope  that  all  our  external  partners  will  make  efforts 
to advance the conflict-resolution process towards that 
goal.
Additionally,  we  reiterate  our  firm  position  with 
regard  to  the  imperative  of  Russia’s  withdrawing 
its  military  forces  and  munitions  from  the  territory 
of  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  in  accordance  with 
the  constitutional  provisions  of  my  country  and 
international  commitments.  In  the  same  context,  we 
believe  that  the  existing  peacekeeping  operation  has 
fulfilled its mandate and needs to be transformed into a 
civilian mission with a relevant international mandate.
The  Republic  of  Moldova  fully  supports  all 
measures  taken  by  the  United  Nations  in  the  field 
of  combating 
terrorism,  promoting 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation,  and  pleads  for 
the  active  participation  of  all  Member  States  in  their 
implementation.  My  country  has  ratified  and  our 
delegation  has  deposited  with  the  Secretary-General 
its  ratification  instrument  of  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty. 
The  Treaty  should  not  only  ensure  transparency  and 
accountability in transfers of conventional weapons, but 
should also prevent illicit arms trafficking, especially 
to  unrecognized  separatist  entities.  In  the  context  of 
the complex security situation in the Eastern European 
region, this is of vital importance.
international 
Being convinced that the security deterioration in 
our  region  calls  for  an  effective  mechanism  for  small 
arms and light weapons control, we are also engaged in 
implementing the United Nations Programme of Action 
to  Prevent,  Combat  and  Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in 
Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  in  All  Its  Aspects, 
and support the relevant Security Council resolutions. 
Today,  we  are  pleased  to  state  that  during  the  past 
three years, with the support of our partners, we have 
succeeded in destroying all stocks of cluster munitions 
and anti-personnel mines in our country.
We  also  share  the  international  community’s 
concerns about the emergence of new terrorist threats to 
our democratic values, human rights and world peace. 
As a sponsor of Security Council resolution 2178 (2014) 
on foreign terrorist fighters, the Republic of Moldova 
is  in  favour  of  the  adoption  of  appropriate  measures 
for  its  implementation.  In  the  same  vein,  apart  from 
the fact that the Republic of Moldova has participated 
for  many  years  with  military  observers  in  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  in  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Liberia,  the  Sudan,  South  Sudan  and  the  Central 
African Republic, starting from 2014 our country has 
contributed a contingent of more than 40 servicemen to 
the multinational peacekeeping Kosovo Force.
During the past year, important progress has also 
been  made  in  cooperating  with  the  European  Union 
in the field of a common security and defence policy, 
particularly  by  participating  for  the  first  time  in  the 
European  Union-led  crisis  management  missions  and 
operations  including  the  European  Union  Training 
Mission  in  Mali  in  2014  and  the  European  Union 
Military  Advisory  Mission  in  the  Central  African 
Republic  in  2015.  Thus,  the  Republic  of  Moldova 
is  transitioning  from  being  a  security  observer  and 
beneficiary  to  becoming  an  active  participant  and 
contributor to establishing security building, peace and 
stability  in  Europe  and  in  the  world.  As  a  European 
Union-associated  State,  the  Republic  of  Moldova  is 
determined  to  contribute  to  the  consolidation  of  the 
European  Union’s  position  as  a  regional  and  global 
actor.
When  humankind  is  confronted  with  deepening 
crises,  raising  increasing  human  rights  implications, 
and  the  needs  of  people  are  evolving,  United  Nations 
expertise  and  independent  assessment  are  crucial. 
Especially  for  that  reason,  the  Republic  of  Moldova 
welcomes  the  innovative  approach  of  the  United 
Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human 
Rights  to  brief  Member  States  on  new  developments 
in  a  prompt  manner,  which  will  contribute 
to 
strengthening  prevention  and  early  warning.  My 
country stands for universal respect for the principles 
of international law and human rights that arise from 
their  indivisibility  and  interdependence,  and  believes 
that  ensuring  the  availability  of  efficient,  solid  and 
rapid  reaction  mechanisms  to  foster  respect  for  and 
15-29701
9/28
A/70/PV.21 
30/09/2015
promote fundamental freedoms without exception is of 
crucial importance.
The  seventieth  anniversary  could  and  should 
become an influential incentive for further real reforms 
and  for  the  reaffirmation  and  strengthening  of  the 
role and work of the United Nations. We welcome and 
support every concrete effort directed at ensuring the 
reform of all United Nations structures, including the 
General Assembly, its subsidiary bodies, the Economic 
and Social Council and the Security Council, with the 
purpose  of  enhancing  their  efficiency,  effectiveness, 
accountability,  transparency  and  equitable  regional 
representation. Along this line, we particularly reiterate 
previously  expressed  positions  on  the 
imperative 
of  allocating  one  non-permanent  seat  in  a  reformed 
Security  Council  to  the  Eastern  European  Group  of 
States  and  of  ensuring  equitable  regional  rotation  in 
the  process  of  the  election  of  the  Secretary-General 
by entrusting for the first time the highest position in 
the  Secretariat  to  a  national  coming  from  an  Eastern 
European country.
Finally, having had this privilege of congratulating 
the  entire  United  Nations  family  on  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  Organization,  we  express  our 
conviction that all Member States will further engage by 
uniting efforts and resources to confront the new threats 
and challenges, thereby safeguarding peace, humanity 
and our planet, as the founders of the United Nations 
urged us to do. Pledging to constructively contribute to 
the attainment of this noble assignment, my delegation 
and  my  country  are  confident  that  this  anniversary 
session  will  lead  to  the  advancement  of  sustainable 
peace  and  development  and  to  environmental  and 
human rights protection for the benefit of the world.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Moldova for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Valeriu Strelet, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Moldova, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Royal Highness Prince Moulay 
Rachid of Morocco
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Moulay 
Rachid of Morocco.
Prince  Moulay  Rachid  (Morocco)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  King  Mohammed  VI  has  mandated  me 
to  convey  his  congratulations,  his  esteem  and  his 
greetings. He also asked me to deliver this royal speech 
to the General Assembly at its seventieth session.
The  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is 
particularly important because it has seen the adoption 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1).  It  is  an  opportunity  to  reiterate  our 
collective  commitment  to  achieving  one  of  the  lofty 
objectives  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
to  fulfil  the  aspirations  of  peoples  throughout  the 
world. This session also coincides with the celebration 
of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations 
establishment  at  a 
international 
community is facing serious, unprecedented challenges 
and challenges that require joint, efficient and integrated 
action. The Kingdom of Morocco’s position regarding 
these  challenges  and  the  spectrum  of  regional  and 
international issues will be laid out during the General 
Assembly’s committee meetings and at the ministerial 
discussions that will take place on the sidelines of the 
General Assembly.
time  when 
the 
The preparation of the development Agenda for the 
next 15 years must be based on an objective assessment 
of what we have done since 2000. Have we managed to 
improve the day-to-day life of the poor? Are the results 
achieved  solid  and  sustainable  enough  to  withstand 
tensions,  wars  and  social  and  economic  crises?  The 
review  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  shows 
that tangible progress has been made between 1990 and 
2015, yet the remaining gaps among regions throughout 
the  world  and  within  certain  countries  remain  a 
legitimate  cause  of  concern.  This  situation  tarnishes 
the image of international cooperation and casts doubt 
on our collective action within the United Nations.
But  that  does  not  necessarily  mean  that  we  have 
failed. This situation should rather lead all stakeholders 
to consider the best means to promote development and 
to  correct  the  malfunctions  that  affect  international 
cooperation. In this context, the Kingdom of Morocco 
hopes  that  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  will 
contribute to developing an ambitious Agenda that can 
improve the situation at all levels — national, regional 
and international.
However  relevant  and  promising  the  Sustainable 
Development  Agenda  is,  its  credibility  will  depend 
on  our  ability  to  find  the  financing  necessary  for  its 
implementation.  International  cooperation  therefore 
has  to  keep  pace  with  the  new  international  reality. 
10/28 
15-29701
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.21
It  needs  to  shake  off  the  legacy  and  geopolitical 
calculations of the past and refrain from imposing near 
impossible conditions for accessing support. The Ebola 
crisis  showed  that  besides  expressions  of  solidarity 
dictated  by  circumstance,  the  international  support 
to  the  countries  affected  was  far  from  sufficient  and 
did not rise to the level of commitment required by the 
gravity of the situation.
Development does not come through bureaucratic 
decisions  or  by  means  of  technical  reports  that 
lack  credibility.  Development 
the  deep 
understanding of the realities of peoples’ existence and 
their  characteristic  capacities,  as  well  as  an  objective 
analysis  of  the  context  in  which  they  live.  It  also 
requires  serious  work  to  respond  to  their  aspirations 
and genuine concerns.
requires 
I  am  very  familiar  with  the  difficult  situation  in 
Africa  and  I  think  I  know  what  I  am  talking  about. 
Many  Africans  are  indeed  living  in  very  difficult 
conditions. The reality is infinitely more cruel and bitter 
than  is  indicated  in  the  reports  of  some  international 
governmental  and  non-governmental  organizations. 
The life of these Africans is a struggle and subject to 
daily  challenges  and  scant  resources,  but  at  the  same 
time they live with dignity and have a sincere patriotic 
commitment to a better future.
To  address  this  situation,  we  must  develop  an 
inclusive  and  consistent  mid-term  approach  with 
complementary measures. Urgent, practical initiatives 
are  also  required  because  deteriorating  conditions 
and daily pressing needs cannot wait for international 
bureaucracy  to  wake  up  and  take  the  necessary 
decisions. From that perspective, Africa must be at the 
heart of international development cooperation in order 
to  help  the  continent  free  itself  from  its  colonial  past 
and unlock its potential. Morocco therefore calls on the 
United Nations and regional and international financial 
institutions  to  draft  an  action  plan  for  the  economic 
transformation  of  Africa  and  the  provision  of  steady 
resources for its financing.
Despite its promise, Africa stands at a crossroads 
because without substantial and tangible international 
support, the continent will major inequalities will emerge 
among its countries. Some countries will progress and 
develop  while  others  continue  to  have  problems  and 
sink into poverty, ignorance and instability. We call for 
peace and stability to be made top priorities in order to 
prevent conflicts, tackle extremism and terrorism, and 
resolve the migration problem through an approach that 
takes  into  account  the  dignity  of  migrants,  preserves 
their basic rights, and addresses the root causes of this 
phenomenon.
exclusion 
This  year  in  my  country,  we  are  celebrating  the 
tenth anniversary of our national human development 
initiative,  which  has  contributed  to  reducing  poverty, 
marginalization, 
interregional 
disparities.  It  also  enabled  Morocco 
to  achieve 
Millennium Development Goal 1 in 2013. International 
organizations  have  therefore  ranked  Morocco  third 
among the five countries in the world to have adopted 
the  best  public  welfare  programmes  and  initiatives. 
We are ready to put our experience in this field at the 
service of our partners, in particular in Africa.
and 
Because of its geographical location and its strategic 
choices, the Kingdom of Morocco is actively involved 
in addressing all global issues and concerns, including 
migration,  human  rights,  climate  change,  sustainable 
development and the fight against terrorism. Morocco 
national response to each has made a sound contribution 
to  international  efforts  to  face  these  unprecedented 
global challenges.
to  addressing 
Morocco’s  commitment 
these 
universal  issues  is  reflected  particularly  in  the  fight 
against climate change, one of the most serious threats 
facing  humankind  as  a  whole.  We  participated  in  the 
Rio Summit in 1992 and have since worked to develop 
a  national  environmental  policy  based  on  involving 
all  relevant  stakeholders  and  on  the  effective  use  of 
financial  resources  dedicated  to  climate  issues.  This 
policy is reflected in our adoption of a national charter 
for  environment  and  sustainable  development  and  in 
the  Green  Morocco  Plan  as  well  as  in  our  ambitious 
programmes  for  solar  and  wind  renewable  energy, 
which  aim  to  meet  42  per  cent  of  Morocco’s  energy 
needs by 2020.
our 
intended 
nationally 
We  are  also  faithfully  meeting  our  commitments 
in the field of the environment, and in 2015 officially 
presented 
determined 
contribution.  This 
includes  strong  and  ambitious 
commitments  to  its  participation  in  setting  up  an 
international  environmental  order  that  is  fair  and 
solidarity based. In this respect Morocco is proposing 
to  host  in  Marrakesh  in  2016  the  twenty-second 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change.
15-29701
11/28
A/70/PV.21 
30/09/2015
We should like to take this opportunity to reiterate 
our  support  for  France’s  efforts  to  achieve  a  global, 
comprehensive,  sustainable,  balanced  and 
legally 
binding  agreement  at  the  twenty-first  session  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. Therefore 
we  see  the  Paris  and  Marrakesh  Conferences  as  two 
complementary  steps  towards  making  a  qualitative 
improvement  in  the  fight  against  climate  change 
and  avoiding  previous  failures  caused  by  a  lack  of 
coordination and cooperation among stakeholders.
We therefore stress the importance of the call issued 
on 20 September in Tangier by Morocco, together with 
President  François  Hollande  of  France,  for  collective, 
solidarity-based international action on climate change. 
The  choice  of  Morocco  to  launch  this  joint  initiative 
was  not  incidental  but  a  demonstration  of  the  esteem 
in  which  our  country  is  held  in  its  position  at  the 
vanguard  of  the  efforts  of  African  nations  to  adopt 
efficient  national  strategies  in  the  field  of  renewable 
energy.  Consistent  with  this  solidarity-based  policy, 
Morocco  will  spare  no  effort  to  broadcast  the  voices 
and  concerns  of  the  African  continent  and  the  small 
island developing States, which are the most vulnerable 
to climate change.
is 
today  celebrating 
The  United  Nations 
its 
seventieth  anniversary  and  has  reached  the  age  of 
maturity,  wisdom  and  responsibility.  Those  same 
principles  and  values  should  govern  the  action  of  the 
international  community  in  resolving  the  regional 
disputes it faces. The Organization’s work must not be 
a  destabilizing  factor  for  countries  that  contribute  to 
multilateral cooperation and action. Morocco therefore 
rejects any irresponsible or risky course of action with 
regard to the regional dispute over the Moroccan Sahara. 
Indeed, many international Powers fully realize that the 
unrealistic plans that have been drawn up inside offices 
and the erroneous proposals that have been made can 
only undermine the situation in the region.
We  have  high  hopes  that  the  United  Nations  will 
maintain  its  efforts  to  resolve  disputes  by  peaceful 
means  and  remain  committed 
the 
sovereignty and territorial integrity of States in order 
to establish the peace, security and stability to which 
the peoples of the world aspire.
to  upholding 
Address by Mr. Lionel Zinsou, Prime 
Minister in Charge of Economic Development, 
Evaluation of Public Policies and the Promotion 
of Good Governance of the Republic of Benin
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister 
in  Charge  of  Economic  Development, 
Evaluation  of  Public  Policies  and  the  Promotion  of 
Good Governance of the Republic of Benin.
Mr.  Lionel  Zinsou,  Prime  Minister  in  Charge  of 
Economic  Development,  Evaluation  of  Public 
Policies and the Promotion of Good Governance of 
the Republic of Benin, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Lionel 
Zinsou,  Prime  Minister 
in  Charge  of  Economic 
Development,  Evaluation  of  Public  Policies  and  the 
Promotion  of  Good  Governance  of  the  Republic 
of  Benin,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mr.  Zinsou  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Organization turns 70 this year, and on this birthday we 
welcome  its  call  for  a  “Strong  United  Nations,  Better 
World”. This celebration is an opportunity to welcome 
and  take  stock  of  all  the  progress  made  in  promoting 
the  fundamental  principles  of  the  Charter.  The  goals 
and ideals of the Organization today face a globalized 
and  often  dangerous  world  that  is  experiencing  a 
turbulent  time  in  its  history.  We  are  in  a  multipolar 
world.  Climate  change  has  become  tangible  in  terms 
of its harmful effects, especially on the least developed 
countries. Fortunately, there is public opinion and there 
are peoples with aspirations for a prosperous, long-term 
future who know how to achieve it.
I commend the President of the General Assembly on 
his personal qualities. His country, Denmark, where he 
is a senior leader, continues to be very close to countries 
such as our own. He is an excellent Ambassador to the 
United  Nations  and  of  the  international  community’s 
resolve to stand in solidarity.
I also wish to pay tribute to the outgoing President of 
the General Assembly, His Excellency Mr. Sam Kutesa 
from  the  brother  country  of  Uganda.  His  personal 
qualities allowed undeniable progress to be made and 
strong consensus to be reached on important issues. I 
pay tribute to him together with the current President.
When  it  comes  to  peace,  security  and  human 
rights  — 
this  seventieth  general 
debate — we are certain that considerable progress has 
themes  of 
the 
12/28 
15-29701
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.21
been  made  but  it  is  still  possible  to  go  further.  That 
is  what  we  want  to  discuss.  Yes,  our  world  has  made 
considerable  progress,  but  the  threat  of  terrorism  has 
been  mentioned  many  times  from  this  rostrum.  Just 
a  few  minutes  ago,  we  heard  about  its  prevalence  in 
Iraq, but we also know it from our own experience in 
Africa. There is strong financial instability and crises 
in  Africa  —  food  crises,  energy  crises,  mass  youth 
unemployment  —  that  are  affecting  the  youngest  and 
the  oldest  in  all  countries.  There  are  pandemics,  that 
other  globalization  of  the  day.  There  are  the  rising 
sea levels and coastal erosion that we feel as a coastal 
country,.
Clearly everyone has their own challenges, but the 
United  Nations  system  is  at  the  front  line  and  we  are 
proud and confident in the United Nations action. We 
also  have  problems  that  run  deep  in  all  our  countries 
concerning  good  governance,  which  sometimes  poses 
major  obstacles  to  development  policies  and  good 
responses to the challenges of the day. They need to be 
addressed.
The  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  opens  new 
possibilities  of  cooperation  for  Africa  in  combating 
the vast international corruption that is hitting us hard 
with mass tax evasion and illicit financial flows. The 
struggle against such corruption requires a coordinated 
judicial  effort.  We  need  to  counter  its  harmful,  far-
reaching  effects.  It  is  an  obstacle  to  growth  and  to 
investment. We must deny the perpetrators of economic 
and financial crimes the possibility of taking refuge in 
the sanctuaries of tax havens. We are pleased that the 
United Nations system, working with the Group of 20, 
is coordinating with the full commitment of the African 
Union to combat this corruption.
But  in  each  of  our  countries,  we  know  that 
corruption at the domestic level is also a very important 
hindrance. Benin has decided to address it and attack 
it  using  institutional  means  by  establishing,  through 
a  law  enacted  in  2011,  an  effective  national  authority 
for combating corruption, and in 2015 a general audit 
office  designed  to  improve  administrative  practices. 
With  the  help  of  its  technical  and  financial  partners 
and  the  United  Nations  system,  which  has  been  very 
vigilant and very effective, Benin seeks justice to find 
better  means  to  prosecute  and  eradicate  the  impunity 
that  often  goes  with  corruption  at  the  domestic  level, 
even in the institutions of the Republic itself.
If we look at things more broadly, we hope that the 
United Nations, which has helped us in all these subjects, 
will  be  ever  more  effective  in  conflict  resolution.  No 
State, powerful though it may be, can prevent or resolve 
conflict alone. On our continent, the security issue is 
ever present. It is a serious obstacle to the development 
of  the  countries  in  the  grip  of  these  conflicts.  Often 
it  is  a  reflection  on  our  borders  and  our  territory  of 
conflicts that in reality are cross-border in nature. They 
are often linked to religious fundamentalism, all kinds 
of  terrorism,  human  trafficking,  drug  smuggling,  and 
maritime piracy.
Africa  knows  these  problems.  Africa  is  getting 
organized but needs the help of the rest of the world. We 
still  need  security  assistance,  which  is  a  primary  and 
critical priority component of development assistance. 
Our  country  advocates  a  comprehensive  approach  to 
cooperation  among  States  that  is  political,  economic, 
legal  and  diplomatic.  We  find  that  such  assistance  is 
making  solid  progress,  especially  among  African 
countries or between Africa and other continents, with 
the United Nations system as guarantor and stakeholder.
Similarly, we wish to stand in solidarity and also 
be an actor. It will be noted that in recent years Africa 
has increasingly been a key actor in the prevention and 
resolution of conflicts. I must apologize today for the 
absence  at  this  General  Assembly  of  the  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Benin,  Mr.  Thomas  Boni  Yayi,  who 
left  a  few  hours  ago.  In  his  capacity  as  a  mediator 
for  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
(ECOWAS),  he  was  summoned  to  finish  mediating 
the  internal  conflict  in  Burkina  Faso  and  to  help  the 
people  of  that  country  in  their  quest  to  resolve  their 
internal problems. The President is on his way, ever the 
optimistic.
That is one example of what we can do, but we also 
contribute to the task force constituted by the brother 
countries  of  Nigeria,  the  Niger,  Cameroon  and  Chad 
to  fight  Boko  Haram  together  in  a  resolute  manner. 
Eight hundred Beninese soldiers, many of them trained 
for  action  and  intervention  as  part  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping operations, shall take their place beside 
to their sisters and brothers in arms.
Conflict  prevention  is  very  important.  Let  me 
highlight  an  initiative  that  the  United  Nations  has 
strongly  supported.  We  met  in  Cotonou  from  26  to 
28  May  at  a  symposium  on  education  for  peace  and 
interreligious  dialogue.  We  have  the  opportunity  as 
15-29701
13/28
A/70/PV.21 
30/09/2015
a  people  to  be  a  nation  of  peaceful  and  constructive 
coexistence  for  development  among  our  traditional 
religions and the religions of the Book. That symposium 
led to the adoption of a manifesto that proposes ways 
forward  to  create  this  harmony  and  determination 
to  live  together  that  are  key  elements  in  preventing 
future  conflicts  and  threats.  I  should  like  to  thank 
the  United  Nations  for  its  support  and  call  on  the 
international community to draw inspiration from and 
substantively assist us in following up on this reflection 
on interreligious dialogue with its roots in African soil.
The  President  of  the  Republic  of  Benin  was  the 
driving  force  behind  the  coordination  of  the  offer  to 
provide the least developed countries with the services 
of  the  Secretary-General.  in  that  regard,  I  thank  the 
Organization and especially the Secretary-General for 
their assistance. We have thus been able to improve the 
plight of the least developed countries. Here, too, it is 
vital  that,  in  the  historic  adoption  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  our  least  developed  countries 
received a certain number of very strong commitments 
in economic development, earmarked to their specific 
cases.
In terms of the way the United Nations is evolving, 
let  me  just  say  that  Benin  is  very  attached  to  seeing 
ever-stronger cooperation with the African institutions. 
When the President of the Republic of Benin assumed 
the presidency of the African Union in 2012, we saw in 
the situation in Mali how perfect coordination between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  African  Union,  with  the 
assistance  of  ECOWAS,  yielded  favourable  results 
in  terms  of  stabilization  and  appeasing  an  eminently 
dangerous situation.
Institutionalizing  relations  between  the  African 
Union  Peace  and  Security  Council  and  the  United 
Nations  Security  Council  is  obviously  a  goal  that  we 
want  to  see  pursued  effectively.  In  speaking  of  the 
Security Council, we clearly share the African position 
which seeks to remedy the historic injustice of Africa’s 
lack of representation among the permanent members 
of the Security Council, and sometimes on the Security 
Council in any guise.
If  the  Security  Council  wants  to  be  effective,  it 
is  hard  to  leave  more  than  1  billion  people,  who  will 
become  2  billion  people  in  the  space  of  a  generation, 
outside  the  Council.  It  is  hard  to  remain  committed 
to  privileges  dating  back  to  1945.  Those  opposed  to 
equitable  representation  of  Member  States  within  the 
Security  Council  need  to  use  the  fact  that  we  have 
entered  our  seventy-first  year  to  truly  modernize  the 
Council. It will make it more effective given the major 
contemporary political problems before us.
In that respect I should like to say that we believe 
that  major  progress  has  been  made  on  a  number 
of  subjects  on  which  we  need  to  move  forward  on 
further. We welcome the call for the establishment of 
an independent Palestinian State, a fully-fledged State 
Member, living in good relations with its neighbours, 
Israel.  We  are  convinced  that  this  would  create  an 
impetus  to  ease  tensions  in  that  part  of  the  world  so 
that we could then declare the Middle East a nuclear-
weapon-free zone the next day.
But  we  were  also  very  encouraged  by 
the 
negotiations that ended on 14 July 2015 in Vienna with 
the  resolution  of  what  could  have  been  a  very  grave 
conflict, which saw the Islamic Republic of Iran and the 
five permanent members of the Security Council plus 
one  reaching  an  agreement  on  the  nuclear  issue  that 
maintains the possibility of the peaceful use of nuclear 
energy  for  the  welfare  and  well-being  of  the  people 
while at the same time avoiding the considerable risks 
that were crystallizing.
We also noted with emotion during this session of 
the  General  Assembly  to  see  we  are  moving  towards 
a  complete  lifting  of  the  United  States  embargo  on 
Cuba  and  the  progress  made.  We  want  to  commend 
both President Raul Castro Ruz and President Barack 
Obama  for  their  spectacular  courage  in  being  able  to 
wipe the slate clean and being able to build a future of 
hope for the two peoples. It is vital, and the whole world 
should benefit from it.
I  should 
like 
to  conclude  by  returning 
to 
the  question  of  good  governance  and  combating 
corruption.  The  post-2015  agenda  is  very  demanding, 
and that is as it should be. With a country like Benin, 
a  least  developed  country,  what  we  have  to  do  in  15 
years  is  something  that  humankind  has  never  done. 
There  will  be  more  than  150  million  new  inhabitants 
in a few years in Africa, with all that means in terms 
of  the  balance  of  our  ecosystems,  social  equilibrium, 
needs for education, and for infrastructure in terms of 
urbanization. What lies ahead, no one has ever done. The 
goals that we are proposing no one has ever proposed. 
That is a considerable step forward, and the success of 
the Millennium Development Goals in many countries 
and  in  our  own  from  —  all  the  people  —  ensured 
14/28 
15-29701
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.21
that  significant  progress  was  made  on  all  of  them. 
In  Bangladesh  they  achieved  all  the  goals.  That  is  an 
extraordinary feat and is rather dizzying because it now 
faces something even more demanding. We will need 
all  the  aid  from  the  international  community,  but  we 
ourselves will need to draw on our own strengths and 
the best possible governance.
The President of the Republic of Benin is coming 
to  the  end  of  his  two  constitutional  mandates,  in 
compliance with the Constitution. He is ensuring that 
the  elections  to  take  place  six  months’  time  in  Benin 
will follow the example for all previous elections, just 
like the last two at municipal legislative levels that have 
just taken place. The democratic changeovers that the 
country has seen over the past five years should once 
again be marked with success and dignity.
We  are  but  a  small  example,  but  an  example  of 
democracy and of governance that knows its limits and 
shortcomings but is getting better. We are an example 
of democracy for Africa, and we think that today that is 
the primary ingredient of any successful development 
policy  given  the  challenges  that  lies  ahead.  We  seek 
to  be  there  in  the  spirit  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  in  Charge  of  Economic  Development, 
Evaluation  of  Public  Policies  and  the  Promotion  of 
Good  Governance  of  the  Republic  of  Benin  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Lionel  Zinsou,  Prime  Minister  in  Charge  of 
Economic  Development,  Evaluation  of  Public 
Policies  and  the  Promotion  of  Good  Governance 
of  the  Republic  of  Benin,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gilles  Tonelli, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the 
Principality of Monaco.
Mr.  Tonelli  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
successful  outcome  of  the  United  Nations  Summit 
to  adopt 
the  post-2015  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  coincided  with  the 
seventieth anniversary of the Organization and reflected 
the  joint  resolve  to  face  up  to,  over  the  15  years,  the 
many  obstacles  and  global  challenges  that  impede 
sustainable development for all. The Heads of State and 
Government adopted a historic agreement whose goals 
aim at eradicating poverty and restoring dignity to each 
individual  so  that  all  might  enjoy  their  freedoms  and 
rights.
The 
should  meet 
twenty-first  century 
the 
expectations  of  peoples  for  higher  social  justice  and 
for  shared  prosperity  and  a  healthy  environment  that 
is respectful of future generations, as was quite rightly 
underlined by His Holiness Pope Francis in front of the 
General Assembly (see A/70/PV.3). The proliferation of 
conflicts and crises and the millions of victims caught 
up  in  their  destructive  wake  further  strengthen  our 
determination to pursue the transformation of current 
models, whose ambition is to match the challenges we 
are facing.
The  continuing  tragedy  in  Syria  and  the  barbaric 
means  used  by  extremist  groups,  which  is  being 
propagated  in  West  Africa  and  the  Middle  East, 
fill  us  with  horror.  Such  groups  indiscriminately 
target  religious  minorities,  civilians,  women  and 
children  —  the  latter  always  being  the  most  common 
victims.  In  addition,  the  international  community 
cannot remain indifferent in the face of the destruction 
of our common human heritage, such as the temples in 
Palmyra. They are a symbol of the Middle East as the 
cradle of a culture for thousands of years. We therefore 
strongly  support  the  Secretary-General’s  “Rights  Up 
Front” initiative and his endeavour to establish a plan 
of action on preventing violent extremism.
In  that  regard,  I  should  like  to  remind  members 
that Monaco co-sponsored Security Council resolution 
2178 (2014), on foreign terrorist fighters and combating 
violent  extremism.  The  Principality  of  Monaco  is 
already implementing Security Council resolutions on 
freezing  assets  and  imposing  economic  sanctions  on 
people who might be connected to terrorist networks. 
Furthermore, Monaco is currently reinforcing its legal 
framework  in  the  area  of  national  security.  We  are 
also  actively  participating  in  the  fight  against  money 
laundering for funds coming from illicit activities.
We  are  aware  of  the  importance  of  cooperation 
between the United Nations and regional organizations. 
Monaco  therefore  continues  to  support  a  peaceful 
solution  to  the  crisis  in  Ukraine.  We  did  so  over  the 
course  of  the  last  three  months  of  2014,  when  we 
chaired the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in  Europe  (OSCE)  Forum  for  Security  Co-operation, 
15-29701
15/28
A/70/PV.21 
30/09/2015
and we continue to do so today by supporting the work 
of the OSCE Observer Mission.
The past few months have seen flows of migrants in 
Europe that have been unprecedented since the Second 
World  War.  The  dire  humanitarian  consequences 
require  a  coordinated  multilateral  approach.  The 
European Union plan in that regard provides a timely 
response. The principle of the responsibility to protect 
was  endorsed  by  His  Serene  Highness  Prince  Albert 
10 years ago from this high rostrum; it must be the basis 
for our collective action in the face of genocide, ethnic 
cleansing and other crimes against humanity.
The primary responsibility bestowed by the charter 
of the Security Council to maintain international peace 
and  security  brings  me  to  commend  the  courageous 
initiative taken by France and Mexico in calling for the 
voluntary and collective suspension of the right of veto 
by its five permanent members when dealing with mass 
atrocities.  I  take  this  opportunity  today  to  announce 
Monaco’s official support for that initiative, as well as 
the one presented by the Accountability, Coherence and 
Transparency group to develop a code of conduct that 
would apply to all Member States.
Let  me  also  express  our  gratitude  to  those  who 
promote such specific and ethical measures to reinforce 
the  effectiveness  of  the  Security  Council  and  make 
its  decisions  more  convincing  in  the  face  of  public 
opinion.  All  of  the  efforts  made  to  promote  better 
representation  in  the  Security  Council  merit  support. 
My Government welcomes the recent developments in 
the intergovernmental negotiation process.
In one month’s time we will celebrate the fifteenth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution  1325  (2000),  on  women  and  peace  and 
security,  when  the  results  of  the  global  study  on  its 
implementation will be released. Unfortunately, we are 
too  sadly  familiar  with  the  devastating  consequences 
of conflicts for women, who are often the first victims 
when  they  are,  however,  not  responsible  for  such 
conflicts. Along with children, they also represent the 
majority of refugees and displaced persons. Convinced 
of  the  importance  of  the  full  and  active  participation 
of women on an equal footing in preventing conflicts 
and  peacefully 
in 
peacebuilding and peacekeeping, we therefore call for 
the implementation of specific measures.
them,  as  well  as 
resolving 
The issues to be tackled by the first humanitarian 
summit  proposed  by  the  Secretary-General  are  of  the 
utmost  importance,  and  all  the  more  given  that,  in 
addition  to  the  human  tragedy  I  have  just  mentioned, 
we  must  also  address  the  issues  of  the  victims  of 
climate  change,  natural  disasters  and  a  health  crisis. 
In that regard, the international community will have 
to  define  a  new  humanitarian  deployment  framework 
that can respond to the growing and complex needs, can 
support  financing  and  can  complement  operations  by 
providing planning and long-term development.
Regional  consultations  have  already  highlighted 
the concerns of various stakeholders. They will allow 
for  adequate  responses  to  be  found  not  only  that 
meet  the  complexity  of  the  humanitarian  crises  but 
also the specificity of each of the crises. Monaco has 
participated  actively  in  that  preparatory  work,  in  line 
with our commitment in the context of our international 
cooperation policy and as part of the major mobilization 
by  our  non-governmental  organizations  and 
the 
Monegasque Red Cross.
The magnitude of the Ebola virus epidemic served 
once  again  to  demonstrate  the  absolute  need  to  build 
effective  sustainable  health  systems  that  can  face  up 
to extraordinary situations. In that regard, Monaco has 
already  expressed  its  support  for  the  reform  that  has 
been begun by the World Health Organization.
The Addis Ababa Action Agenda was developed to 
facilitate  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  with  its  17  Goals  and  169 
targets. The aim is to find an effective way to transform 
our  lifestyles.  The  technology  facilitation  mechanism 
launched  during  that  summit  reflects  a  spirit  of 
collaboration  among  all  development  stakeholders 
for  the  benefit  of  developing  countries.  It  also  bears 
witness  to  the  will  of  the  international  community  to 
build capacity in a specific manner.
However, those efforts will not be successful without 
an ambitious and legally binding universal agreement 
that  allows  us  to  fight  climate  change  effectively  and 
to move towards low-carbon and resilient societies and 
economies.  The  Principality  of  Monaco  is  convinced 
that the twenty-first Conference of Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Chage, 
to be held in Paris, will be part of that trend and will 
help  us  to  achieve  a  global  crimate  agreement.  Such 
an  agreement  is  a  sine  qua  non  condition  for  the  full 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.
16/28 
15-29701
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.21
That  is  why  Prince  Albert  has  committed  the 
Principality  to  reducing  its  greenhouse-gas  emissions 
by 50 per cent by 2030, as compared with 1990 levels. He 
has also renewed his commitment to carbon neutrality 
by  2050.  In  setting  those  objectives,  the  Principality 
demonstrates its willingness to take a full part in the 
collective  effort  needed  to  face  one  of  humankind’s 
biggest challenges. Despite its low emissions footprint, 
Monaco  will  continue  to  promote  innovative  means 
of  transportation  and  consumption,  as  well  as  urban 
planning that is as green as possible.
Oceanographic 
We  cannot  talk  about  the  climate  without  talking 
about the issue of the oceans, which play a central role 
in  regulating  the  world’s  climate.  That  is  the  reason 
that  has  led  the  Principality  of  Monacto  to  support 
the  2015  ocean  and  climate  platform  of  UNESCO’s 
Intergovernmental 
Commission. 
Monaco  is  pleased  to  see  that  this  is  an  integral  part 
of  the  sustainable  development  programme,  which 
strengthens the implementation of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  —  a  veritabale 
constitution  of  the  oceans.  That  is  the  sense  behind 
the personal commitment of Prince Albert and also of 
his  leadership  of  his  Government’s  actions  in  favour 
of healthy and productive oceans and seas. To ensure 
the  implementation  of  this  agenda,  Monaco  proposes 
to  convene  conferences  every  three  years  from  2017 
onwards.
For small island developing States the ocean is not 
just a source of economic and social benefit, it is also an 
integral part of their identity. For that reason, Monaco 
has  increased  its  cooperation  for  climate  change 
adaptation  and  for  the  preservation  of  biodiversity 
as  well  as  for  access  to  water,  the  development  of 
sustainable tourism and for capacity-building.
In conclusion, I should like to take this opportunity 
to  remind  the  Assembly  that  for  several  years  now 
Monaco  has  proposed  increasing  the  protection  of 
marine  mammals  from  the  growing  threat  caused 
by  human  beings.  We  hope  that  this  proposal  will  be 
included in the omnibus draft resolution on oceans at 
this current session.
In  70  years,  the  United  Nations  has  worked  to 
honour the goals bestowed on it by the Charter. It has 
repeatedly  adapted  itself  to  emerging  challenges  that 
have  transformed  the  world  since  its  creation.  The 
political will that prevailed during the United Nations 
Summit  to  adopt  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
has  served  to  encourage  us  to  further  strengthen  the 
Organization by giving it the means to pursue its noble 
mandate.  We  have  thus  reaffirmed  the  legitimacy  of 
the values and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations in today’s world. The Principality of Monaco 
remains more than ever convinced that this is necessary, 
and  it  will  continue  to  make  its  modest  but  resolute 
contribution to building a better world while respecting 
our differences.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency Mr. Elmar Maharram oglu Mammadyarov, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
Azerbaijan.
Mr. Mammadyarov (Azerbaijan): At the outset, I 
should like to congratulate Mr. Mogens Lykketoft on his 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
at its seventieth session and to wish him every success 
in fulfilling that highly responsible duty. We are also 
grateful  to  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  for  all  his  hard  work  in 
presiding over the Assembly at its sixty-ninth session.
Over  the  past  70  years,  the  United  Nations  has 
decisively established itself as a universal Organization 
working for the noble cause of maintaining international 
peace and security, developing friendly relations among 
States  and  achieving  international  cooperation.  The 
ability  of  the  United  Nations  to  respond  to  a  rapidly 
changing 
international  environment  by  constant 
adaptation  is  remarkable.  It  gives  us  confidence  to 
believe that the Organization will succeed in addressing 
the challenges it faces.
Azerbaijan condemns terrorism, violent extremism 
and  separatism  in  all  their  forms  and  manifestations. 
In  situations  of  armed  conflict  or  political  crisis 
involving  inter-State  relations,  no  solution  can  be 
reached that is inconsistent with international law and 
legal  order  —  particularly  where  fundamental  norms 
are  concerned,  such  as  the  obligation  to  respect  the 
sovereignty, territorial integrity and the inviolability of 
the internationally recognized borders of States.
With a view to contemporary developments, I have 
to  express  our  deepest  concern  over  the  unfolding 
refugee  crises  fuelled  by  the  armed  conflicts  in  the 
Middle  East  and  Africa.  We  are  equally  alarmed  by 
increasing cases of religious intolerance, in particular 
Islamophobia, and attempts to associate religions with 
terrorism.
15-29701
17/28
A/70/PV.21 
30/09/2015
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter 
of the United Nations, Azerbaijan is making concrete 
contributions to the activities of the United Nations. For 
more than 15 years, my country has been participating 
in  United  Nations-mandated  peacekeeping  operations 
conducted under the command of regional organizations 
or  individual  Member  States  —  in  Kosovo,  Iraq  and 
Afghanistan.  We  look  forward  to  further  supporting 
the  United  Nations  peacekeeping  activities,  including 
by providing training facilities in Azerbaijan.
The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were 
of key importance in promoting development worldwide. 
In  that  regard,  we  are  confident  that  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) will be an effective tool in 
global efforts to achieve peace, prosperity and growth.
Over  the  past  years,  Azerbaijan  has  achieved 
impressive  results  on  many  MDG  targets,  especially 
on  eradicating  extreme  poverty  and  hunger,  ensuring 
universal  primary  education  and  promoting  gender 
equality. Currently, Azerbaijan is adapting its national 
sustainable development strategy to take into account 
the SDG targets aimed at developing a more sustainable, 
inclusive  and  diversified  economy.  In  recognition  of 
Azerbaijan’s  outstanding  commitment,  determination 
and continuous efforts towards the implementation of 
the MDGs, my country received the 2015 South-South 
Award.
Despite  the  global  economic  and  financial  crises 
encountered  by  many  countries  of  the  region,  in  the 
first  half  of  2015  Azerbaijan  registered  economic 
growth of 5.7 per cent, while the growth in the non-oil 
sector  was  9.2  per  cent.  My  country  has  managed  to 
become one of the crucial players of the global market 
in  energy  infrastructure  projects,  such  as  the  Baku-
Tbilisi-Ceyhan  oil  pipeline,  through  the  construction 
of  trans-Anatolian  and  trans-Adriatic  natural  gas 
pipelines  and  the  Southern  Gas  corridor,  which  will 
connect  the  energy  pipeline  networks  of  Azerbaijan, 
Georgia, Turkey, Greece, Albania and Italy.
Azerbaijan  has  also  initiated  strategic  transport 
infrastructure networks, such as the Baku-Tbilisi-Kars 
railroad project, which will connect the railway systems 
of Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey, and the new Baku 
international sea trade port, allowing short and efficient 
connection between East and West, reviving the ancient 
Silk Road.
Azerbaijan considers information and communication 
technologies  as  a  driving  force  of  development  and 
has  initiated  the  Trans-Eurasian  Information  Super-
Highway  within 
is 
designed to provide affordable and reliable broadband 
connectivity 
landlocked  countries  of  Eurasia, 
including Afghanistan and Central Asian States.
the  United  Nations,  which 
to 
On the human dimension, Azerbaijan continues to 
promote tolerance, multiculturalism and understanding 
among  peoples.  We  are  proud  that  the  first  European 
Games  in  the  history  of  the  European  continent  were 
held this year in Baku, with the participation of more 
than  6,000  athletes  from  50  countries.  In  2017,  my 
country  will  host  the  Islamic  Solidarity  Games.  We 
are also planning to hold the seventh Global Forum of 
the  United  Nations  Alliance  of  Civilizations  in  Baku 
in 2016.
Yesterday  the  President  of  Armenia  delivered  a 
statement  at  the  general  debate  (see  A/70/PV.17)  that 
was  full  of  the  usual  set  of  falsifications,  distortions 
and  misinterpretations,  and  in  which  he  attempted 
once  again  to  lecture  others  about  principles  and 
values,  which  in  reality  his  Government  disregards 
and opposes. The international community still recalls 
brutal  massacres  by  invading  Armenian  troops  on 
Azerbaijani  civilians,  including  children,  women  and 
the elderly, as well as the establishment of the military 
dictatorship  in  Armenia  after  murdering  the  entire 
political  elite  of  the  country  and  killing  a  number  of 
peaceful  demonstrators  protesting  rigged  presidential 
elections.
It  is  well  known  that  Armenia  unleashed  the  war 
and used force against my country and occupied almost 
one  fifth  of  the  territory  of  Azerbaijan,  including 
the  Nagorno-Karabakh  region  and  seven  adjacent 
districts,  carried  out  ethnic  cleansing  of  the  seized 
areas  by  expelling  about  1  million  Azerbaijanis  from 
their  homes  and  committed  war  crimes  and  crimes 
against humanity during the conflict. The international 
community  has  consistently  deplored  in  the  strongest 
terms the use of force by Armenia against Azerbaijan 
and the resulting occupation of its territories.
the 
occupation 
of 
In  1993  the  Security  Council  adopted  resolutions 
822  (1993),  853  (1993),  874  (1993)  and  884  (1993), 
territory 
condemning 
of  Azerbaijan  and 
for 
the 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  Azerbaijan 
and  the  inviolability  of  its  internationally  recognized 
borders. In those resolutions the Security Council also 
confirmed that the Nagorno-Karabakh region is part of 
the 
respect 
reaffirming 
18/28 
15-29701
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.21
Azerbaijan and demanded an immediate, complete and 
unconditional withdrawal of the occupying forces from 
all the occupied territories of my country.
Other  international  organizations  have  adopted 
a  similar  position  and  resolutions.  In  its  landmark 
judgement in the case Chiragov and Others v. Armenia, 
the  European  Court  of  Human  Rights  held  Armenia 
fully responsible for the occupation of the territories of 
Azerbaijan and in violation of the rights of Azerbaijani 
internally  displaced  persons.  In  total  disregard  for 
that  judgement  and  the  norms  and  principles  of 
international law, Armenia continues its efforts aimed 
at further consolidating the status quo of the occupation 
by  altering  the  physical,  demographic  and  cultural 
characteristics of the occupied territories and denying 
the  right  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Azerbaijani 
forcibly displaced persons to return to their homes and 
access to their properties.
On  26  September  this  year,  the  President  of 
Armenia  made  an  even  more  remarkable  statement, 
referring to the occupied Nagorno-Karabakh region of 
Azerbaijan as a part of Armenia. We categorically reject 
that fallacious and bellicose statement, which testifies 
to Armenia’s apparent disregard of its obligations under 
the Charter of the United Nations and international law, 
and  represents  yet  another  admission  at  the  highest 
level  of  the  aggression  perpetrated  by  the  Republic 
of  Armenia  against  the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan  and 
demonstrates  how  the  leadership  of  Armenia  is  far 
from  engaging  in  a  constructive  search  for  peace.  In 
that  statement,  the  Armenian  President  even  boasted 
that his country was one of the most militarized areas 
of the world.
Against  that  background,  Armenia’s  speculations 
on  confidence-building  measures  are  curious, 
to 
say  the  least.  In  fact,  the  real  reasons  for  the  lack  of 
confidence  are  Armenia’s  overt  territorial  claims  to 
neighbouring countries, aggression against Azerbaijan, 
occupation and ethnic cleansing of its territories, denial 
of its responsibility for atrocious crimes committed in 
the course of the conflict, opposition to direct contacts 
between the Azerbaijani and Armenian communities of 
the  Nagorno-Karabakh  region  of  Azerbaijan,  and  the 
reluctance even to cooperate seriously on the issue of 
missing persons.
In  reality,  for  effective  confidence-building,  it  is 
crucial first and foremost to implement without further 
delay  the  plan  of  withdrawal  of  the  armed  forces  of 
Armenia  from  the  occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan. 
As  for  the  ideas  of  elaborating  a  mechanism  for 
investigating  incidents  along  the  line  of  contact,  we 
should  note  that  the  major  cause  of  those  incidents  is 
the  continuing  unlawful  presence  of  the  Armenian 
troops in the occupied territories of Azerbaijan. Such an 
investigation mechanism must be an integral component 
of the above-mentioned withdrawal. Otherwise, it will 
serve  only  for  consolidating  the  status  quo,  which 
even  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation 
in  Europe  Minsk  Group  co-Chair  countries  have 
repeatedly stated to be unacceptable and unsustainable.
The  Nagorno-Karabakh  region  has  always  been, 
and will remain, an inalienable part of Azerbaijan. We 
will  never  acquiesce  to  the  seizure  of  our  territories. 
The  conflict  can  be  resolved  only  on  the  basis  of  the 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  Azerbaijan 
within its internationally recognized borders.
The  military  occupation  of  the  territory  of  my 
country  does  not  represent  a  solution,  and  will  never 
produce a political outcome desired by Armenia. The 
sooner Armenia reconciles with this reality, the earlier 
the  conflict  will  be  resolved  and  the  countries  and 
peoples  in  the  region,  including  Armenia,  of  course, 
will  benefit  from  the  prospects  of  cooperation  and 
economic development.
Azerbaijan  is  the  most  interested  party  in  the 
earliest negotiated settlement of the conflict. However, 
if  the  negotiations  fail  to  bring,  as  an  outcome,  the 
complete  and  unconditional  withdrawal  of  Armenian 
troops, Azerbaijan will be compelled to use its inherent 
right of self-defence, guaranteed under Article 51 of the 
Charter of the United Nations, to ensure the restoration 
of  its  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  within  the 
internationally recognized borders.
Azerbaijan highly appreciates the principled stance 
of the States Members of the United Nations that has 
been  repeatedly  expressed  on  issues  that  are  of  the 
utmost importance for my country and pertaining to its 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity.  We  count  on  the 
continued  resolve  of  the  international  community  in 
defending  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter, 
as well as its strong solidarity with the just position of 
Azerbaijan.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency Mr. José Manuel García Margallo, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Spain.
15-29701
19/28
A/70/PV.21 
30/09/2015
Mr. García Margallo (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 
There is a famous etching by Goya called “The Dream of 
Reason Produces Monsters”. Goya taught us that when 
reason deserts us, when it literally falls asleep, it leaves 
space free for the worst demons of our nature to take 
hold. Seventy years ago humankind awoke not from a 
dream,  but  from  a  nightmare.  The  unbridled  exercise 
of power without the check of law or the calmness of 
reason produced the monsters of the Second World War 
and of the Shoah.
Law  is  the  reason  of  States.  I  am  referring  to 
the  law  expressed  through  the  formal  foundations 
of  a  democratic,  lawful  State  by  the  legitimate 
representatives  of  national  sovereignty.  When  those 
foundations are overwhelmed, when the reason of law 
is  flouted,  the  monsters  of  Goya  are  always  lying  in 
wait. Seventy years ago, humankind, represented by the 
United Nations at San Francisco, learned its lesson. The 
founders of the United Nations reached the conclusion 
that,  just  as  States  have  constitutions  that  govern  the 
norms  of  coexistence  among  their  citizens,  it  was 
necessary  for  the  international  community  to  acquire 
its own supreme law, its own Magna Carta.
The  San  Francisco  Charter  is  the  constitution 
of  humankind.  Its  Preamble  and  its  purposes  and 
principles underpin the edifice that is home to us all. 
Among them, respect for the sovereignty and territorial 
integrity of States is essential to ensure the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  If  those  pillars 
are  weakened,  neglected  or  substituted  by  a  will  that 
considers itself above the law, that edifice literally will 
crumble on top of us and leave us out in the cold.
“A  strong  United  Nations,  a  better  world”  is  the 
motto with which we are commemorating the seventieth 
anniversary of the United Nations. There are those who 
will deny that. For them the United Nations is a weak 
Organization, one unable to respond to the challenges 
and threats of our time. I do not think that is true. It is 
clear that there are reasons for hope.
The  nuclear  agreement  reached  with  Iran  and  the 
restoration of diplomatic relations between the United 
States and Cuba and the prospect of a peace agreement 
in Colombia soon show that situations that have festered 
for far too long can be resolved. Spain welcomes that. 
Now  we  need  to  take  a  further  step  forward  so  that 
both Iran and Cuba, proud countries with very defined 
identities and highly qualified populations, can become 
catalysts  for  change  and  contribute  to  stability  and 
progress in their respective regions.
If  it  is  possible  to  reach  agreement  in  situations 
that  many  considered  were  unresolvable,  as  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the  Kingdom 
of Spain, it would be remiss of me not to mention the 
dispute  over  Gibraltar,  the  last  colony  on  European 
territory.  We  want  to  re-initiate  with  the  United 
Kingdom  bilateral  dialogue  on  the  decolonization  of 
Gibraltar  based  on  the  parameters  established  by  the 
United Nations and the Brussels Declaration of 1984.
On  a  different  tack,  my  country  hopes  that  the 
United Kingdom will respond to the Spanish proposal 
of  establishing  a  new  local  cooperation  mechanism 
in the interests of social well-being and the economic 
development  of 
include 
participation  by  the  local  competent  Gibraltarian 
authorities  and  the  competent  local  and  regional 
Spanish authorities.
the  region.  That  would 
Light  predominates  over  the  darkness  in  other 
areas  too.  I  am  thinking  of  the  challenge  of  climate 
change. It is true that time is running out, but also that 
there are well-founded hopes that at the Paris summit 
in December we will achieve results that will allow us 
to stop the process of the deterioration of our common 
home and decisively turn things around. We therefore 
need a sustainable growth model, one that is equitable 
and leaves no one behind.
Once again, hopes have begun to turn into reality 
thanks  to  the  recent  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). His Majesty 
the  King,  who  was  present  at  the  Summit  where  the 
Agenda  was  adoped,  reiterated  the  commitment  of 
our  country  to  its  implementation  —  a  commitment 
already translated into acts with the establishment of a 
Sustainable Development Goals fund, which is initially 
being financed by Spain but is open to all other States 
and to the private sector.
I  consider  myself  to  be  among  those  who  believe 
that  the  twenty-first  century  will  be  the  century  of 
the woman, but that will only be so if we all play our 
part.  For  as  the  President  of  Chile,  Michelle  Bachelet 
Jeria, has said, equality will not happen by itself. That 
is why Spain has for some time been encouraging the 
participation and leadership of women in all dimensions 
of collective life. To that end, our strategic plan for equal 
opportunities 2014-2016 has been allocated €3.1 billion.
20/28 
15-29701
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.21
We  will  be  bringing  our  national  commitment  to 
equality  to  our  presidency  of  the  Security  Council. 
During our presidency, on 13 October, we will hold a 
high-level open debate on Security Council resolution 
1325 (2000), on women and peace and security, to be 
presided  over  by  the  President  of  the  Government  of 
Spain. I invite everyone to take part at the highest level, 
because the occasion merits it.
Terrorism is the main threat to the model of the just, 
prosperous, equitable and open society that we seek to 
build  for  the  peace  and  security  of  the  international 
community. Spain has been hit hard by both domestic 
and international terrorism. Back in 1960, 55 years ago, 
as a result of the explosion of a bomb placed in a railway 
station by the Euskadi Ta Askatasuna terrorist group, 
a 22-month-old child, Begoña Urroz, died. Since then 
850 human beings — men, women and children — have 
lost their lives as a result of the terrorist madness. All 
terrorism is born from hatred and disdain for life and 
is a crime against humanity. That is the basis that we 
work on.
But  it  is  also  true  that  evil  manifests  itself  in 
different  forms  depending  on  the  circumstances  and 
the  historical  times.  In  our  lifetime  jihadist  terrorism 
is at its most lethal insidious form. Spain too suffered 
at its hands. On 11 March 2004, 190 people of various 
nationalities,  the  majority  workers,  were  killed,  and 
more than a 1,800 people were injured.
In the case of Daesh we are up against a terrorist 
movement that has sought to control a territorial base 
from  which  it  seeks  to  launch  attacks  and  to  destroy 
our model of civilization. Because all of us are targets, 
we must all form a common front against Daesh. There 
can  be  no  negotiation  with  terrorists;  they  must  be 
defeated — only lawfully, but with all of the law. That 
is  why  Spain  did  not  hesitate  to  join,  right  from  the 
beginning, the international coalition fighting against 
Daesh  in  Iraq  at  the  side  of  the  Government  and  the 
people of Iraq.
But military intervention is not enough. It is also 
necessary  to  combat  radicalization,  which  leads  so 
many youngsters to fill their ranks. Spain placed at the 
disposal  of  this  common  struggle  its  own  experience 
in  multilateral  initiatives  such  as  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations, the Vienna King Abdullah International 
Centre  for  Interreligious  and  Intercultural  Dialogue 
and the Union for the Mediterranean.
From  its  own  experience  we  know  that  saving 
and  keeping  alive  the  memory  of  the  victims  is  vital 
to  prevent  a  repetition  of  such  horrors.  On  too  many 
occasions we have seen the victims presented as being 
the  guilty,  as  though  bringing  their  sacrifice  upon 
themselves.  If  I  may,  another  personal  experience  I 
should like to recall is that until 1997, the year that saw 
the  assassination  of  Miguel  Ángel  Blanco,  we  had  to 
bury our dead virtually in secret. In order for that not 
to be repeated, and so that the voice of the victims can 
reach all corners of the planet, on 21 October we will 
open  up  the  Security  Council  for  the  sake  of  dignity, 
memory and justice.
To 
joining  forces 
the  same  end, 
to  combat 
radicalization  and  extremism,  the  Madrid  Club  has 
invited about 100 former Heads of State or Government 
on  27  and  28  October.  Their  experience  will  be 
incredibly useful to us.
Now let me refer to impunity. Spain and Romania 
have  decided  to  propose  the  establishment  of  an 
international criminal court against terrorism. We think 
it is necessary for the United Nations to consider this 
proposal in all its scope. This would be an international 
jurisdictional  mechanism  to  combat  the  crimes  of 
international terrorism using the tools of international 
law. Such a court would complement the action of the 
International  Criminal  Court  and  would  intervene 
when a State is not in a position to carry out trials itself.
Conflicts  in  regions  such  as  the  Middle  East  and 
in  parts  of  Africa  are  the  origin  of  the  most  serious 
migratory  crisis  Europe  has  seen  since  the  Second 
World  War.  The  images  of  this  immense  tragedy 
rightly  move  our  hearts,  but  it  is  our  reason  that  can 
provide  solutions.  Of  course,  what  is  most  urgent  is 
the  humanitarian  response  —  saving  lives,  providing 
shelter, healing and feeding. But it is important also to 
draw up a comprehensive asylum and integration policy 
that  sets  out  the  concepts  of  asylum  and  economic 
migration  and  that  takes  into  account  the  rights  and 
dignity of people who risk their lives to find a better 
future for themselves and their children. I think that the 
time has come to begin thinking about a global covenant 
under  United  Nations  auspices  in  which  countries  of 
origin, countries of transit and host countries would all 
participate. Migration is a global challenge that we can 
solve only by working together.
I said earlier that the origin of the current migratory 
crisis  were  the  festering  conflicts,  conflicts  often 
15-29701
21/28
A/70/PV.21 
30/09/2015
exacerbated by lack of response from the international 
community and as a result of the brutality of the parties. 
The  paradigmatic  case  is  that  of  Syria  —  four  and  a 
half  years  of  conflict;  250,000  lives  lost;  12  million 
people  in  desperate  need  of  humanitarian  assistance; 
7.6  million  internally  displaced  persons;  4  million 
refugees  in  neighbouring  countries  —  the  statistics 
have been calling out to us for too long.
A  solution  to  the  conflict  is  urgent.  We  must 
work  on  two  fronts:  first,  by  providing  an  immediate 
humanitarian response to assuage the suffering of the 
Syrian people, and, secondly, supporting the inclusive 
political process propposed by the Special Envoy of the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Staffan de Mistura.
There  is  similar  urgency  with  regard  to  the 
conflict in Libya. We support the work of the Special 
Representative of the Secretary-General, my compatriot 
Bernardino León, and we continue with impatience to 
seek an agreement for the formation of a Government of 
national accord. We call for courage and for all parties 
to come together to overcome the fracture of a country 
divided in two, and where on the horizon we can already 
see the black flag of Daesh just a few kilometres from 
our coast. Let me say that the partition of Libya would 
be the worst possible solution.
Of  course,  in  the  Middle  East  we  continue  to  be 
committed  to  an  agreement  between  Israelis  and 
Palestinians  that  goes  via  the  two-State  solution  with 
mutually agreed borders. We must revitalize the peace 
process.  Spain  will  always  be  willing  to  support  the 
parties to return to the path of direct negotiations.
In Africa the situation in Mali, the Central African 
Republic and elsewhere troubles us greatly. But it is not 
all darkness in that continent; there are bright spots. The 
response  to  the  Ebola  epidemic  and  the  development 
and rebuilding plans presented by the countries affected 
by Ebola fill us with hope. Spain continues to be very 
optimistic when it comes to Africa’s future.
In Europe the main shadow, but with certain bright 
spots,  continues  to  be  the  crisis  in  Ukraine,  where  it 
is  vital  to  implement  the  Minsk  agreements  and  to 
continue building a climate of trust so as to put an end 
to a conflict of a different time. We call on the parties 
to seek that path.
Finally,  I  am  convinced  that  today  the  United 
Nations is stronger in a world that, while it is still far 
from perfect, is better than that world of 70 years ago. 
To keep moving forward towards perfection it is crucial 
to  respect  the  values  and  the  purposes  and  principles 
of the Charter, including territorial integrity. Violation 
thereof, as history has taught us, is one of the preferred 
instruments of the monsters of Goya to put us to sleep. 
To avoid this it is necessary for the reason of law and 
that the law of reason should remain ever alert. Among 
the foundations are always dialogue, reconciliation and 
cohabitation.  Without  them  we  will  be  left  out  in  the 
cold.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Samuel  Rangba, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  African  Integration  and 
Francophonie of the Central African Republic.
Mr.  Rangba  (Central  African  Republic)  (spoke 
in  French):  The  Head  of  State  of  the  Transition,  Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Catherine  Samba  Panza,  was  to  have 
spoken  to  here  at  the  General  Assembly  personally 
in order to thank the United Nations for its extremely 
valuable  support  to  the  process  of  transition  in  the 
Central  African  Republic.  Alas,  the  resurgence  of 
violence  since  25  September  in  the  capital,  Bangui, 
has meant that she has had to return home earlier than 
intended. She has therefore asked me to give her speech 
as follows.
It is an honour and great pleasure for me to share 
with the General Assembly the vision that my country 
has on the major issues facing the world and to report 
on developments in the situation in the Central African 
Republic. The serious situation obtaining today in my 
country means that I must spare addressing international 
issues in order to call the attention of world leaders to 
the  new  tragedy  affecting  the  people  of  the  Central 
African Republic.
I  should  like  first  of  all  sincerely  to  congratulate 
His Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft on being elected 
as President of the General Assembly at its seventieth 
session. He may rest assured of the full support of the 
delegation of my country for the success of this session, 
which  also  marks  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United Nations.
I  am  also  grateful  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam 
Kutesa,  his  predecessor,  who  by  his  leadership  and 
example conducted the work of the sixty-ninth session 
and  the  preparatory  work  for  the  current  session. 
My  gratitude  also  goes  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon. I should like to encourage him in his constant 
commitment to peace, security and development in the 
22/28 
15-29701
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.21
world and congratulate him particularly on his personal 
involvement in endeavours to resolve the crisis in the 
Central African Republic.
A  year  ago,  the  Head  of  State  of  Transition 
outlined  before  the  Assembly  (see  A/69/PV.15)  the 
tragic  situation  in  my  country  while  appealing  to  the 
international community to mobilize and come to the 
help  of  the  Central  African  Republic,  beset  by  the 
indiscrimiate  and  savage  violence  by  non-regulated 
armed  groups.  Given  the  cruelty  of  the  atrocities  and 
heinous  crimes  hitherto  unknown  in  the  history  of 
my  country,  the  United  Nations  did  not  hesitate.  The 
international  community  unanimously  committed  to 
support  the  Transitional  Government,  which  had  just 
been  established.  That  commitment  was  reflected 
in  the  adoption  of  several  resolutions  of  the  Security 
Council,  one  being  resolution  2149  (2014),  authorized 
the deployment of the United Nations Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African 
Republic (MINUSCA).
commitment 
from 
that 
Supported  by 
the 
international community, the Head of State of Transition 
worked to the utmost to establish dialogue among the 
various protagonists in order together to find the way 
to social cohesion and stabilization for the country. It 
was a question of ensuring a peaceful climate, one of 
confidence, so that we could live together.
The crisis was far-reaching and complex. It required 
a vigorous and global response, which the Transitional 
Government  alone  was  not  able  to  provide.  In  order 
to  break  the  deadlock,  the  Transitional  Government, 
with  the  support  of  the  international  community, 
drew  up  a  road  map  with  the  following  priorities: 
the  re-establishment  of  security  and  the  building  of 
peace;  humanitarian  assistance;  the  re-establishment 
of State authority throughout the national territory; the 
recovery  of  the  economy  and  the  improvement  of  the 
management of public finances; and the organization of 
free, transparent and democratic elections for a return 
to constitutional order. Considerable progress has been 
made in 18 months of transition.
Politically,  after  the  signing  of  the  agreement  on 
the  cessation  of  hostilities  in  Brazzaville  on  23  July 
2014,  grassroots  consultations  organized  throughout 
the  entire  country  made  it  possible  to  hold  a  national 
forum  from  4  to  11  May,  which  brought  together  all 
forces in the nation, including the armed groups. That 
led  to  the  adoption  of  significant  recommendations 
and the signing of commitments by the armed groups 
to  renounce  violence.  The  electoral  process  is  taking 
place  normally  and  the  Government  has  undertaken 
to organize elections in accordance with the timetable 
established  by 
the  national  elections  authority, 
establishing  a  deadline  for  the  end  of  December  this 
year. That process is an irreversible one. The people of 
the Central African Republic are determined to go to 
the ballot box to choose their leaders democratically.
In  2011,  while  the  country  was  at  peace,  the 
number of registered voters stood at 1,6 million. Today, 
despite the crisis, the number is 1.59 million registered 
voters. That shows the desire of the people to return to 
constitutional order.
As far as security matters go, since the deployment of 
MINUSCA, on 15 September 2014, until the most recent 
sad  events  the  situation  was  becoming  progressively 
more  normal  throughout  the  entire  country.  Bangui 
began  to  find  once  again  its  charming  way  of  life 
with the resumption of economic and social activities. 
While  awaiting  for  the  disarmament,  demobilization 
and reintegration (DDR) process to begin, a pre-DDR 
programme was launched via the cantonment of former 
armed groups, who were employed in community work.
On  the  humanitarian  front,  the  situation  has 
once  again  become  alarming  since  the  terrible  date 
of  25  September.  The  number  of  internally  displaced 
persons  had  been  considerably  reduced,  but  now  we 
see  a  horrendous  spike,  which  means  that  there  are 
now  more  than  30,000  internally  displaced  people  in 
Bangui.  Nevertheless,  the  number  of  refugees  has 
decreased  from  1  million  in  2014  to  about  460,000 
since  the  voluntary  return  policy.  The  international 
community has lent very strong support to the Central 
African  Republic  in  order  to  help  its  people  go  back 
home.
In  economic  terms,  the  growth  rate,  which  had 
dropped by 37 per cent at the height of the crisis in 2013, 
grew by 1.3 per cent in 2014. The forecast for 2015 is of 
the order of 5.5 per cent. That progress is attributable 
to  the  support  of  the  international  community,  which 
created the necessary conditions to mobilize domestic 
resources,  as  well  as  the  contributions  from  bilateral 
and multilateral partners.
After a year of untiring efforts by the Transitional 
Government and the international community, we were 
able to state happily a week ago that the bad times were 
over  and  the  Central  African  Republic  was  gradually 
15-29701
23/28
A/70/PV.21 
30/09/2015
recovering from its travails and taking its place among 
the community of nations.
Alas, just as we came to tell the United Nations of 
those  encouraging  results  of  the  Transition,  which  is 
moving to its end with the organization of elections at 
the end of this year, the enemies of peace once again 
dealt a harsh blow to the process on 25 September by 
savage violence, killings and terrible crimes leading to 
the loss of many human lives and destruction as well as 
the massive displacement of people.
That  situation  clearly  shows 
that  peace  and 
reconciliation  are  still  tenuous  and  require  strong 
supported  action  in  order  that  my  country  will  not 
once again be drawn into a vicious cycle of violence, 
challenging  the  progress  made  so  arduously  during 
the  Transition  thanks  to  the  determination  of  the 
Government and the people and the constant support of 
the international community. We ask the international 
community,  an  in  particular  the  United  Nations,  to 
make it possible for there to be a stronger presence in 
the  Central  African  Republic,  stronger  action  to  help 
to  staunch  destruction  and  widespread  crime.  For 
18  months  the  legitimate  aspiration  of  the  people  for 
stability and development has remained dependent on 
the security situation, which is still very uncertain as 
proven by the current outbreaks of violence in Bangui.
I  am  aware  that  the  outbreaks  of  crisis  have 
multiplied in the world today and that the Organization 
is facing many challenges on all fronts and resources are 
diminishing ever more. But remember the thousands of 
children, women, old people and sick people and other 
vulnerable groups so hatefully killed in such a cowardly 
way, raped, humiliated or required to leave their homes 
to  find  refuge  in  unhealthy  places  under  rain  without 
shelter, just because a handful of individuals decided to 
put into practice their nefarious plans to destabilize an 
entire country to assuage their hunger for power.
That then is why I call upon the Security Council to 
reinforce MINUSCA’s mandate to better combat these 
enemies of peace and give hope once again to the sorely 
tried people of my country. That is why I demand that the 
Security Council consider lifting the sanctions regime, 
particularly  regarding  the  training  and  equipment  of 
our defence and security forces within the framework 
of bilateral cooperation with friendly countries ready to 
help the Central African Republic.
Against  that  backdrop,  speeding  up  the  reform 
of  the  security  sector,  the  pre-DDR  and  DDR  efforts 
are  the  immediate  absolute  priorities  as  we  move 
towards  rebuilding  a  national  multi-ethnic  army  that 
is representative of all regions of the country and able 
to  lend  its  support  to  the  actions  of  the  international 
forces.
I  also  remain  deeply  disturbed  by  the  matter 
of  impunity,  which  continues  despite  the  sanctions 
pursuant  to  Security  Council  resolutions  2127  (2013) 
and 2134 (2014), pertaining to certain Central African 
citizens  at  the  root  of  the  crisis  today.  The  failure  to 
implement  the  provisions  of  those  resolutions  is  one 
of  the  causes  of  the  lasting  violence  of  armed  groups 
and  the  violence  in  our  country.  That  is  why  the 
Government has established a special criminal court in 
order to try all those responsible for mass atrocities and 
the destruction seen in the country today.
This is the right forum to pay tribute to MINUSCA 
and  to  all  those  who  have  made  their  contribution  in 
order  to  give  new  hope  to  the  people  of  the  Central 
African  Republic,  inter  alia,  the  member  countries  of 
the Security Council, the African Union, the European 
Union,  the  Economic  Community  of  Central  African 
States,  the  Central  African  Monetary  and  Economic 
Community, the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, 
the  International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes 
Region, France, the United States of America and the 
Kingdom of Morocco.
This  seventieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
is being held against a backdrop of generalized threats 
affecting  all  countries  that  want  to  see  justice  and 
peace,  whether  we  are  talking  about  Al-Qaida  in  the 
Islamic  Maghreb,  Al-Shabaab,  Boko  Haram  or  the 
Islamic State, terrorism remains a threat to the entire 
world and must grasp the attention of all world leaders, 
who, regardless of their ideological or religious beliefs, 
must work to eradicate this scourge.
The  Central  African  Republic  is  not  spared  those 
threats  because,  in  addition  to  the  armed  groups 
slaughtering 
the  civilian  population  and  going 
unpunished, my country has, for more than a decade, 
been  facing  Joseph  Kony’s  Lord’s  Resistance  Army 
laying waste to the south-east of the country. The porous 
borders in the north-east and north-west of the country 
mean  that  the  Central  African  Republic  is  a  potential 
sanctuary, indeed a very likely sanctuary, for terrorists 
in  particular  from  Boko  Haram,  at  present  in  Nigeria 
and  Cameroon.  That  is  why  the  re-establishment  of 
security and State authority throughout our country is 
24/28 
15-29701
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.21
of the greatest priority in order to prevent the Central 
African Republic becoming an area where terrorists can 
fall back, recruit new members and gain new supplies.
In  addition  to  armed  conflict  and  terrorism  we 
must  also  face  poverty  and  the  HIV/AIDS  and  Ebola 
pandemics, which render the situation of the majority of 
the planet’s people ever more precarious. That requires 
increased  international  solidarity  among  countries  a 
sustained partnership between Governments and civil 
society to bring about eradication.
Another  major  challenge  we  face  today  is  that  of 
climate  change.  This  only  exacerbates  geographical, 
social  and  ecological  inequalities,  with  their  sad 
consequences  of  poverty,  the  migration  crisis  and 
the  reduction  of  resources  for  future  and  current 
generations.  My  country,  which  is  part  of  the  Congo 
Basin, contributes by way of its forests preserving the 
ecological  balance  in  the  world.  Nevertheless,  we  are 
classfied as one of the poorest countries in the world, 
and therefore one of the most vulnerable.
Our  development  priorities  remain  adaptation 
to  the  negative  impact  of  climate  change  by  means 
of  support  from  the  international  community  to  gain 
access for southern hemisphere countries to additional 
funding and the transfer of technology. In that regard, 
the  outcome  of  the  upcoming  meeting  to  be  held  in 
Paris  in  December  will  send  a  strong  signal  to  the 
decision-makers of the planet to work together to provide 
future generations with a world where it will be good 
to live. The Central African Republic strongly supports 
that process and will participate in the meeting.
Other  challenges,  such  as  related  to  respect  for 
human rights, the rule of law and good governance, are 
preconditions for peace and lasting security. However, 
respect  of  human  rights  must  not  be  an  excuse  for 
impunity.  There  must  be  a  framework  of  equitable 
justice,  meaning  that  those  responsible  for  serious 
crimes can be held to account.
rights 
also  means 
Respecting  human 
the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  respect  for  freedom 
of  expression  and  the  preservation  of  the  territorial 
integrity of States. In that regard, the Central African 
Republic remains of the belief that conflict prevention 
and conflict settlement by peaceful means are the best 
ways  to  maintain  and  ensure  international  peace  and 
security.
That  is  why  my  country  continues  to  support  the 
principle  of  the  political  settlement  of  the  question 
of  the  Moroccan  Sahara  within  the  framework  of  the 
guidelines defined by the United Nations. My country 
welcomes  the  encouraging  positions  of  the  Security 
Council  expressed  through  the  several  resolutions 
that have been adopted since 2007, which lay down a 
credible  basis  for  a  political  settlement,  one  mutually 
acceptable to the various parties. The Central African 
Republic  remains  firmly  committed  to  this  process 
under the aegis of the United Nations.
The  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations 
provides  us  with  an  opportunity  to  think  about 
reforming the organs of the Organization to adapt them 
to  the  realities  of  today’s  world.  We  therefore  have 
to  move  towards  a  new  way  to  achieve  world  peace 
and security with a reform of the principal organ, the 
Security  Council,  to  make  it  more  democratic  and 
more representative of the various continents, as well 
as  more  accessible  to  the  countries  of  the  South.  The 
Central African Republic supports the process of such 
reform, which will mean that it will prove easier for the 
United  Nations  to  meet  the  expectations  of  countries 
when it comes to responding to international issues. My 
country  also  calls  for  limiting  the  use  of  the  veto  in 
situations of conflict or disaster where there are risks of 
mass crimes and crimes against humanity. My country 
strongly  supports  the  initiative  of  France  and  Mexico 
in that regard.
I  wish  to  express  the  hope  that  this  seventieth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  will  be  a  historic 
occasion  on  which  world  leaders  will  unanimously 
and bravely enter into a commitment to revitalize the 
Organization  with  the  same  determination  as  their 
forebears 70 years ago.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the general debate for this meeting.
Before giving the floor to speakers in the exercise 
of  the  right  of  reply,  may  I  remind  members  that 
statements in the exercise of the right of reply are limited 
to 10 minutes for the first statement and to 5 minutes 
for the second and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr.  Abishek  Singh  (India):  It  is  regrettable  that 
the  delegation  of  Pakistan  has  once  again  chosen  to 
misuse  the  high-level  segment  of  this  session  of  the 
General Assembly to distort reality and portray a false 
sense of the picture of the challenges in our region (see 
15-29701
25/28
A/70/PV.21 
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.19). Pakistan claims to be the primary victim 
of terrorism. In truth, it is actually a victim of its own 
policies of breeding and sponsoring terrorists. To seek 
to mask its activities as though an outcome of domestic 
discontent in the Indian State of Jammu and Kashmir 
carries no credibility with the world.
It was stated that Jammu and Kashmir was under 
foreign  occupation.  It  is,  except  that  the  occupier  in 
question is Pakistan. In fact, India’s reservations about 
the  proposed  China-Pakistan  economic  corridor  stem 
from  the  fact  that  it  passes  through  Indian  territory 
illegally occupied by Pakistan for many years.Pakistan 
apparently  regrets  that  the  dispute  over  Jammu  and 
Kashmir  remains  unresolved  and  that  our  dialogue 
has not progressed. If that is so, it is because Pakistan 
has  chosen  to  disregard  its  commitments,  whether 
under  the  1972  Shimla  agreement,  the  2004  joint 
declaration  forswearing  terrorism,  or,  more  recently, 
the understanding between our Prime Ministers at Ufa. 
On each occasion, it is India that has extended the hand 
of friendship. India remains open even today to engage 
Pakistan on outstanding issues in an atmosphere free of 
terrorism and violence.
Reference  was  made  to  ceasefire  violations  and 
the  exchange  of  fire  along  the  Line  of  Control  and 
the  international  boundary.  The  world  knows  that  the 
primary reason for firing is to provide cover to terrorists 
crossing  the  border.  It  requires  no  imagination  to 
figure out which side initiates such exchanges. It is not 
uncommon  for  States,  when  confronted  with  serious 
challenges, to shift responsibility on to others. That is 
the  case  with  Pakistan  and  terrorism,  which  reflects 
an  inability  to  recognize  that  this  is  a  home-grown 
problem that has begun to bite the hand that fed it. We 
agree that terrorism has underlying causes: in this case 
poverty of wisdom and ignorance of consequences.
The heart of the matter is a State that regards the 
use of terrorism as a legitimate instrument of statecraft. 
The  world  watches  with  concern  as  its  consequences 
have spread beyond its immediate neighbourhood. All 
of us stand prepared to help if only the creators of this 
monster wake up to the dangers of what they have done 
to themselves.
Mr. Kazhoyan (Armenia): It was not my intention 
to take the floor today, but I was forced to do so because 
of the accusations that were made by the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan.
Let me start with a quote from a favourite band of 
mine, Iron Maiden:
“Ever had a conversation that you realize you’ve 
had before? Have you ever talked to someone, and 
you  feel  you  know  what’s  coming  next?  It  feels 
pre-arranged,  ‘cause  you  know  that  you’ve  heard 
it before, and you feel that this moment in time is 
surreal, ‘cause you know when you feel deja-vu.”
I was feeling déjà vu today, because it seemed that 
whatever  I  heard  today  I  went  through  it  a  few  days 
ago  —  yesterday,  the  day  before  yesterday,  the  other 
day — and it seems to be the same constant accusations. 
Strangely  enough,  a  few  weeks  ago  was  the  one 
hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the publication of 
Lewis Carroll’s Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland and 
Through the Looking Glass. Surprisingly, the statement 
that has been delivered at this meeting is exactly from 
that fairy tale. Everything was vice versa. Everything 
was  confusing.  Everything  was  upside  down.  I  was 
wondering if that is also the case of “the best defence is 
good offence”. Probably that is the idea behind all these 
accusations.
There  is  probably  a  problem  with  short  memory. 
But the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan is not 
too  young  to  himself  remember  what  happened  20  or 
25 years ago — how Azerbaijan initiated the war against 
Armenia,  against  the  people  of  Nagorno-Karabakh. 
But it is also not surprising, because no one is left in 
Azerbaijan to write the truth today. Everybody is behind 
bars. Any free speech, any journalist, any blogger who 
is  willing  to  write  about  the  truth  in  Azerbaijan  is 
immediately arrested.
Let  me  touch  upon  a  couple  of  issues  that  were 
raised  in  the  statement.  Just  before  coming  to  New 
York, and I am from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, I 
had a meeting with representatives of the International 
Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and discussed the 
issues of the possibility of finally arranging a meeting 
between  the  two  countries’  committees  on  missing 
persons.  Armenia  has  been  repeating  this  appeal 
through the ICRC to Azerbaijan for the past 10 years, 
probably  constantly.  We  passed  on  our  request  to  the 
ICRC.  The  response  is  constant.  Unfortunately,  the 
Azerbaijani committee on missing persons has refused 
to hold the next meeting. That has been the response for 
the last 10 years.
With  regard 
to  militarization,  I  was  simply 
the  Azerbaijani 
surprised  at 
the  accusations  of 
26/28 
15-29701
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.21
Minister  —  again  putting  everything  upside  down. 
The Azerbaijani President’s statement recently calling 
Armenia,  including  its  capital,  Yerevan,  its  own  land 
is  simply  surprising  and  appalling.  I  would  simply 
suggest that the Azerbaijani speech writers have a look 
at the maps — ancient maps, mediaeval maps, maps of 
the pre-Soviet Union times, but definitely not the ones 
that are drawn in Azerbaijan based on the imagination 
of  Azerbaijani  scholars,  one  of  whom  has  declared 
even that Noah was of Azerbaijani origin. Nowhere is 
it acceptable, no militaristic rhetoric is acceptable and 
logical.
Do not frighten us with the possibility of war. It was 
the result of that war of Azerbaijan trying to annihilate 
the  Armenian  population  that  they  lost.  Instead  of 
that,  think  about  negotiations  based  on  compromises. 
Azerbaijan  has  also  probably  forgotten  the  fact  of 
the  mujahideen  and  other  mercenaries  fighting  in 
the  Azerbaijani  army  against  Armenia,  and  killing 
peaceful civilians.
Maybe the Azerbaijani Minister is also not aware 
of hundreds of its citizens fighting among fighters of 
the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  Syria,  who  every  now 
and  then  also  appear  on  the  Armenian  border  or  the 
border  of  Nagorno-Karabakh.  If  Azerbaijan  wanted 
peace  in  the  region,  they  definitely  would  be  willing 
to allow international observers along the international 
border and the line of contact to have an impartial body 
announce  who  is  responsible  for  ceasefire  violations. 
But  they  will  not  allow  that.  The  Armenian  Ministry 
of Defence has always confirmed its readiness to do it. 
That says a lot, I think.
Let me, in conclusion, paraphrase the words of the 
Azerbaijani  speaker’s  statement.  Nagorno-Karabakh 
has  never  been  and  will  never  be  part  of  Azerbaijan, 
regardless of how many times that is repeated.
Finally,  I  should  also  like  to  address  briefly  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Turkey  (see 
A/70/PV.19). It was mentioned that major conflicts in 
the greater Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe area remained unresolved, and that aTurkey 
was  determined  to  continue  its  efforts  to  facilitate  a 
peaceful  resolution  to  those  conflicts  on  the  basis  of 
respect  for  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  the 
inviolability  of  internationally  recognized  borders. 
What about the people’s right to self-determination, I 
would ask? If that is the position of Turkey, I can assure 
the Assembly that no one can facilitate a solution based 
on  a  one-sided,  biased,  predetermined  or  prejudged 
approach.
(Azerbaijan): 
It 
is 
Mr.  Mammadov 
indeed 
regrettable  that  we  need  to  take  the  floor  at  such  a 
late  hour.  In  fact,  the  slanderous  statement  by  the 
representative of Armenia prompted us to take the floor. 
I would appreciate it if the representative of Armenia 
limited himself to entertaining with fairy tales, rather 
than trying to mislead the General Assembly here.
As for history, of course we appreciate history in 
our region. I should just like to remind him that, only 
100  years  ago,  Armenia  was  a  vibrant,  multi-ethnic 
area  where  Armenians  constituted  a  minority  of  4  to 
5 per cent of the population, including its now capital, 
Yerevan.
As for the comments on human rights, a country, 
half of whose population left, has no right whatsoever 
to  speak  on  human  rights.  All  major  human  rights 
activists left the country. They simply fled the country, 
including  fleeing  to  Azerbaijan.  Just  recently  one  of 
them came to Azerbaijan.
In terms of the responsibility of Armenia, it is well 
established, including as noted by my Minister in the 
recent  judgement  of  the  European  Court  of  Human 
Rights,  whose  jurisdiction  Armenia  has  voluntarily 
accepted, and many other international organizations in 
addition to the United Nations, such as the Non-Aligned 
Movement,  some  declarations  of  the  Conference  on 
Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia 
and  so  on.  Lastly,  the  President  of  Armenia  himself 
admitted the fact of occupying Azerbaijan territories.
As  for  terrorism,  Armenia  is  probably  the  only 
country in the world that venerates convicted terrorists, 
erects  monuments  to  them  and  receives  convicted 
terrorists  at  the  highest  political  level,  including  by 
Prime Ministers.
Azerbaijan,  contrary  to  what  Armenia  tries  to 
present,  is  not  against  any  type  of  investigation  that 
brings about the truth. Azerbaijan has been pressing for 
a long time for an investigation into all the violations 
of international law, most notably war crimes, crimes 
against  humanity  and  crimes  against  peace.  That  is 
something  in  the  interests  of  Azerbaijan  and  in  the 
interests of the international community, but not in the 
interests of the military junta of Armenia, which is led 
by  war  criminals.  It  would  be  in  the  best  interests  of 
Armenia and the people of Armenia if its Government 
15-29701
27/28
A/70/PV.21 
30/09/2015
puts  an  end  to  aggression  and  engages  in  good-
neighbourly  relations  with  its  neighbours,  and  thus 
works  towards  the  prosperity  and  development  of  its 
own population and the region.
Mr.  Kazhoyan  (Armenia):  It  is  difficult  to  argue 
with words that basically do not make any sense and, 
surprisingly,  also  are  harassing.  I  would  call  upon 
the  presidency  to  stop  or  interrupt  meetings  when 
the  leadership  of  a  neighbouring  country,  or  any 
other  country,  is  making  some  sort  of  incriminating 
accusations.
First  and  foremost,  I  should  like  to  recall  that 
I  represent  a  country  that  is  home  to  12  national 
minorities who live happily and peacefully in Armenia. 
Among  some  of  those  nationalities  are  those  who  do 
not  have  their  own  State  but  who  have  all  the  rights 
and  privileges  of  the  citizens  of  Armenia;  also,  no 
Armenian national is currently residing in Azerbaijan. 
In  Baku  —  a  city  that  was  populated  by  Armenians, 
Russians and Jews in the early twentieth century, where 
the entire oil industry was started by Armenians — is 
today  devoid  of  a  single  Armenian.  Luckily,  with  the 
collapse  of  the  Soviet  Union  and  the  demisre  of  the 
republics,  Nagorno-Karabakh  was  able  to  declare  its 
independence  and  became  home  for  the  Armenian 
population of Nagorno-Karabakh and many Armenians 
who  fled  from  the  massacres  in  Baku,  Sumqayit  and 
Kirovabad.
The  only  international  organization  that  has  a 
real mandate to negotiate a peaceful settlement on the 
Nagorno-Karabakh conflict is the Minsk Group of the 
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. 
The co-Chairs of the Minsk Group — Russia, France 
and the United States, are doing a wonderful job. They 
have been negotiating and mediating very hard among 
the parties to find a solution based on compromise and 
the principles of international law, which includes the 
interests of all parties and those of self-determination, 
territorial integrity and, first and foremost, the non-use 
of force or the threat of force.
The  best  solution  is  not  to  engage  in  counter-
attacks,  counter-offensives,  especially  in  the  artillery 
fight  on  the  border,  but  to  engage  truly  and  sincerely 
in  negotiation.  That,  of  course,  is  if  the  opposing 
party is really interested in finding a solution, and not 
continuing its militaristic policy.
Mr.  Mammadov 
(Azerbaijan):  The 
second 
statement  by  the  representative  of  Armenia  is  again 
full of distortions — or outright lies — and is contrary 
to the spirit of constructive debate here at the United 
Nations.
As  for  statistics,  in  our  day  they  are  widely 
available: w refer to the official statistics of Armenia. 
How can a country 99.9 per cent of whose population 
belongs  to  one  titular  nation  be  called  multi-ethnic? 
It  is  a  mono-ethnic  country.  While  mono-ethnicity  is 
not  bad  in  itself,  it  has  been  achieved  through  ethnic 
cleansing. That is the point.
As for violations across the front line and the zone, 
Azerbaijan  is  for  the  withdrawal  of  all  illegal  armed 
formations  from  its  own  territories,  and  all  foreign 
military  forces  taht  are  unlawfully  stationed  in  the 
territory of Azerbaijan. It would be more appropriate if 
the representative of Armenia did not misinterpret the 
substance of the peace process and the proposals of the 
co-Chairs of the Minsk Group.
The  principles  that  the  Armenian  representative 
tried  to  misinterpret  have  nothing  in  common  with 
what they are in reality, including the principle of self-
determination  —  a  famous  Organization  for  Security 
and  Cooperation  in  Europe  principle  that  clearly 
sets  forth  self-determination  in  conformity  with  the 
territorial integrity of States. In any case, it would be 
in  the  best  Armenian  interests  and  in  the  interests  of 
the United Nations and the international community if 
the illegal use of force against the territorial integrity 
and sovereignty of Azerbaijan were terminated so that 
good-neighbourly relations in our region could become 
a reality.
The meeting rose at 9.55 p.m.
28/28 
15-29701
