United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
25th plenary meeting
Friday, 2 October 2015, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.25
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Ruiz  Blanco 
(Colombia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
Address by Mr. Antoni Martí Petit, Head of 
Government of the Principality of Andorra
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of 
Government of the Principality of Andorra.
Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit,  Head  of  Government  of 
the  Principality  of  Andorra,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Antoni 
Martí  Petit,  Head  of  Government  of  the  Principality 
of  Andorra,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mr.  Martí  Petit  (Andorra)  (spoke  in  Catalan; 
Spanish text provided by the delegation): It is my honour 
to  represent  my  country,  the  Principality  of  Andorra, 
before the Assembly, which this year is celebrating its 
seventieth anniversary.
Over  the  past  seven  decades,  we  have  listened 
to  speakers  talking  from  this  very  this  rostrum,  year 
after year, of peace, social justice and, more recently, 
of  sustainable  development.  If  we  have  talked  about 
those  themes  for  so  long,  perhaps  that  is  because 
something has not been going as planned. Perhaps the 
international  community  has  not  done  well  and  has 
been unable to make sufficient progress in promoting 
the values   that are part of the philosophy and charisma 
of the United Nations. Clearly, with the United Nations, 
the international community has made unprecedented 
progress. However, to recognize that not all has gone 
smoothly and that there is much room for improvement 
is  the  first  step  towards  meeting  present  and  future 
challenges in a realistic and effective manner.
the 
The  world  has  changed  a  great  deal  in  the  past 
70  years.  Seven  decades  ago, 
international 
community  came  to  an  agreement  to  prevent  a  third 
world  war  that  would  have  devastated  the  future  of 
humankind.  To  prevent  that,  the  major  Powers  were 
able to choose consensus and harmony over unilaterally 
imposing  their  own  order,  because  solutions  that  are 
concerted,  balanced  and  fair  are  much  more  lasting 
than those imposed through coercion or the unilateral 
use of power.
As we heard President Obama say a few days ago 
before  the  Assembly  (see  A/70/PV.13),  no  country 
can  claim  to  solve  the  world’s  problems  unilaterally, 
and no country can remain isolated and think that the 
problems affecting the rest of the world will not affect 
it. A country as small as Andorra understands, perhaps 
better than others, the deeper meaning of those words.
Over  the  past  70  years,  Andorra  has  made  the 
transition  from  isolation  to  openness.  Seven  decades 
ago,  our  country  was  only  beginning  to  overcome  its 
cloistered past. For centuries Andorra was a reclusive 
country, surrounded by its mountains — both isolated 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29816 (E)
*1529816*
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
and protected by its environment. The construction of 
roads that connected us with the neighbouring regions 
of  France  and  Spain  were  the  way  we  overcame  our 
isolation. Thanks to that geographical opening, various 
sectors  developed  in  Andorra,  such  as  tourism,  trade 
and  finance.  That  provided  opportunities  to  the  local 
population, as well as to the thousands of people from 
neighbouring countries who sought new opportunities 
in  our  country  and  who  have  helped  enrich  the 
Principality of Andorra and make it greater.
Andorra’s  history  is  the  history  of  its  ongoing 
adaptation  to  its  environment.  It  is  also  the  history 
of  continuous  change.  In  the  1980s  and  1990s,  my 
country aligned its institutional systems to others. That 
too  was  a  change  and  an  opening.  In  my  generation, 
our  mission  has  been  to  open  up  and  harmonize  our 
economic  system.  Three  years  ago,  we  proposed  and 
approved  an  economic  law  that  removed  restrictions 
on  foreign  investment  and  conferred  full  economic 
rights to foreign nationals starting on their first day of 
residency. In parallel with that, Andorra has opted for 
cooperation and transparency. We have approved a new 
fiscal model that is in line with others. We have made 
and will continue to make progress in exchanging tax 
information, and we have begun to build a network for 
double taxation agreements.
The world is changing, and Andorra must change 
with  the  world.  We  have  chosen  to  become  a  more 
open, more competitive and more transparent country, 
because we are convinced that increasing economic ties 
among countries is a way to establish the foundations of 
a more cooperative, more just and more peaceful world. 
That was in fact the spirit that guided the construction 
of the European Union over the past 60 years. 
Andorra  is  currently  negotiating  an  Association 
Agreement with the European Union that establishes a 
stable horizon for opportunities and prosperity for our 
citizens.  We  do  so  in  the  same  spirit  of  cooperation, 
healthy  competition  and  transparency  that  we  have 
brought  to  our  economic  reforms  in  recent  years. 
Andorra  needs  broader  horizons  than  those  fixed  by 
our mountains, and that will also happen through the 
European Union. To opt for a more interrelated and open 
world, with stronger economic, cultural and social ties 
among nations, is also to opt for peace and harmony. As 
President Obama said yesterday, the great challenges of 
our time, including economic ones, must be addressed 
jointly, and that is what we our trying to do in Andorra.
Andorra  believes  that  after  its  first  70  years,  the 
United Nations also should promote a process of reform. 
That is why we have supported the political declaration 
on  suspending  the  right  to  the  veto  in  the  Security 
Council in cases of mass atrocities, an initiative that has 
been and is being promoted by the French Republic and 
the United Mexican States. It is important that France, 
as a permanent member of the Security Council, is part 
of that initiative. 
Here, I would like to commend France’s initiative, 
as  expressed  on  Monday  through  President  Hollande 
(see  A/70/PV.13).  France  could  retain 
the  major 
Powers’  right  to  the  veto,  but  it  understands  that  that 
right should be moderated under certain circumstances, 
because  institutions  are  here  to  serve  the  values,  and 
not  the  reverse.  And  international  institutions  should 
be at the service of people and the universal values of 
peace, solidarity and justice.
In  extreme  situations,  when 
the  survival  of 
thousands  of  people  is  at  stake,  the  international 
community  cannot  remain  deadlocked.  The  balances 
that  gave  birth  to  the  United  Nations  cannot  be  used 
to  excuse  deadlock  in  situations  that  are  extreme  for 
humankind. The citizens of this great global city that 
is  the  world  demand  solutions,  and  institutions  must 
always be part of the solution, not part of the problem. 
That  is  why  we  must  address  the  matter  of  Security 
Council  reform.  We  must  move  the  United  Nations 
forward,  adapt  it  to  the  changing  times  and  reform  it 
to improve it, without making radical changes yet in a 
resolute, effective way. We need to do that now, without 
waiting  for  another  humanitarian  crisis  or  a  new 
stalemate to reveal our shortcomings and weaknesses.
In extreme situations such as that in Syria during 
recent  years,  the  international  community  must  be 
able  to  provide  effective  and  fair  responses.  And,  let 
us say clearly, so far we have been unable to do that. 
That creates an image of frustration and impotence that 
we should avoid. When there is a massacre, there is no 
middle ground: one is either part of the problem or one 
is  part  of  the  solution.  The  international  community 
must always be part of the solution. The consequence 
of our failure to respond in time to the crisis in Syria 
is  obvious  every  day  on  Europe’s  borders,  where 
thousands of refugees arrive in flight from massacres. 
This  is  not  a  migration  phenomenon  motivated  by 
socioeconomic factors. What we are seeing is an exodus 
of people fleeing war and fleeing death. They are not 
seeking  a  better  life;  they  are  seeking  simply  to  live. 
2/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
And that calls directly and bluntly to the very essence 
of the United Nations.
Andorra is committed and sensitive to the situation 
we are witnessing in Syria. That is why the Government 
that I have the honour to head has decided to join the 
effort to host refugees. Our country wants to be faithful 
to  its  tradition  of  hospitality  and  integration,  and  we 
want to be part of the solution — a balanced solution 
agreed in the European framework because, once again, 
global problems require global solutions. Andorra, from 
its modest position, will be part of that global solution. 
The desperate cry of refugees, wherever they may come 
from, calls us all. It is sad that the developed countries 
have taken longer to react than have those less favoured. 
As we heard on Monday from President Hollande, it is 
the  least  developed  countries  that  have  most  quickly 
welcomed the refugees fleeing the war and the tyranny 
of the various conflicts that unfortunately affect many 
places on our planet.
Because we in the more developed countries have 
been slower to react, we must move decisively to enact 
reforms that guarantee that an atrocity such as that in 
Syria will not be repeated. Governments need to carry 
out forward-looking policies. In the international arena 
also,  the  best  policy  for  promoting  peace  is  clearly 
conflict  prevention.  Accordingly,  Andorra  commends 
the  recent  agreement  between  the  United  States  and 
Iran on the nuclear issue, which shows that no matter 
how far apart positions may be, there is always room for 
cooperation and harmony.
The fact that we are a small country is not in any 
way  incompatible  with  the  fight  against  atrocities  of 
war. In that connection, Andorra accepted the Kampala 
amendments, a text that defines the crime of aggression 
and establishes the conditions in which the International 
Criminal  Court  can  exercise  jurisdiction  over  such 
crimes so that they do not go unpunished.
Some years ago, in this very Hall, in speaking about 
the conflicts in Libya and Syria, we discussed whether 
effectiveness  or  justice  was  preferable  in  resolving 
conflicts.  That  is  an  open  question,  but  I  believe  that 
the  way  in  which  events  have  unfolded  demonstrates 
that it is an artificial debate. We must be both effective 
and just, because justice, if not effective, is just a pretty 
word. And effectiveness without justice winds up being 
ineffective. As His Holiness Pope Francis said from this 
rostrum last month (see A/70/PV.3), justice is a will that 
is effective, practical and constant, with concrete steps 
and immediate measures.
There  are  no  lasting  solutions  without  justice. 
In  that  regard,  regimes  and  tyrants  who  continue  to 
perpetrate  massacres  and  repeatedly  violate  human 
rights cannot be part of the solution, because they are 
ultimately part of the problem. The victims of conflicts 
cannot live knowing that they have not been taken care 
of adequately by the international community.
From  the  time  of  its  founding,  the  fundamental 
goal of the United Nations has been the promotion of 
peace  and  the  prevention  of  conflicts.  The  founders 
soon  realized,  however,  that  peace  and  justice  cannot 
be disassociated from education, opportunities, social 
rights  and  the  rational  and  sustainable  use  of  the 
environment.  Andorra  has  accordingly  committed 
itself to other fields such as education and sustainable 
development.
Our  country  has  long  experience  in  welcoming 
immigrants  and  in  dealing  with  diversity.  Proof  of 
that  can  be  seen  in  our  educational  system,  which 
incorporates 
the  French,  Spanish  and  Andorran 
educational  systems  and  has  resulted  in  a  trilingual 
society, prepared for a global world. On that account, 
our  country  has  become  meaningfully  involved  in 
the Global Education First initiative, promoted by the 
Secretary-General, which advocates universal primary 
education, quality teaching and the promotion of global 
citizenship.  We  must  always  bear  in  mind  the  values 
that are part of that initiative.
The  need  to  tackle  problems  from  a  global 
perspective is more apparent than ever in environmental 
concerns.  There  are  problems  that  we  can  attempt  to 
solve unilaterally, and we might achieve an imperfect 
and short-term solution. Global warming is not one of 
those problems. Either there will be a global solution, 
or there will be no solution at all. That is why we cannot 
lose  sight  of  the  notion  of  global  citizenship  within 
a  global  village,  which  President  Dilma  Rousseff 
evoked in her opening statement in the Assembly (see 
A/70/PV.13).  Small  countries  such  as  ours  perhaps 
better  understand  the  notion  of  a  global  village,  for 
Andorra  is  both  a  country  and  a  village.  Who  better 
than we can act on the slogan that says we must think 
globally and act locally?
As a small country, it is clear that Andorra needs 
its natural environment and the help of others to reverse 
the situation and resolve issues. In Andorra, the effects 
of  global  warming  concern  and  affect  us  in  a  very 
specific way. The average temperature in the Pyrenees 
is rising at a rate of 0.2°C per decade, and precipitation 
15-29816
3/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
has  been  annually  decreasing  by  2  litres  per  square 
metre. Experts’ calculations predict that by 2050, our 
water  reserves  will  be  reduced  by  18  per  cent.  Those 
statistics  are  of  particular  concern  to  a  country  that 
lives on the tourism of snow and of mountains.
The  major  climate  change  agreements  must  be 
integrated into the national policies of every country. For 
some time Andorra has been working in that direction, 
and in recent years we have seen the improvement of 
all  environmental  indicators.  But  we  also  know  that 
the reach of national policies is reduced, especially in 
a country like ours. We need global solutions that can 
be  applied  locally.  For  that  reason,  Andorra  was  one 
of the first countries to make its national contribution 
to the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  to  be 
held  in  Paris  in  December.  Andorra  has  committed 
to  reducing  its  emissions  of  carbon  dioxide  and  other 
greenhouse gases by 37 per cent by 2030. That metric 
places us within the global commitment to ensure that 
the  increase  in  global  average  temperature  remains 
below 2°C.
We  endorse  the  statement  made  by  President 
Hollande in urging countries that have not yet submitted 
their contribution to the Conference of the Parties to do 
so by December. At the Conference, we must provide 
the  international  community  with  the  necessary  tools 
to  be  able  to  confront  the  tremendous  environmental 
challenges  of  the  future  and  come  away  with  a  new 
paradigm  for  the  energy  and  environmental  policies 
of  every  country.  At  times,  within  the  international 
community it seems as though there is little sensitivity 
to  national  problems  and  that  national  policies  lack  a 
global  vision.  As  our  fellow  leader  and  President  of 
the French Republic said, if in Paris we put off finding 
solutions,  later  will  be  too  late.  The  citizens  of  the 
nations we represent are calling on us. We cannot allow 
failure  to  reach  an  effective  and  definitive  agreement 
in Paris.
Seventy years ago, the world was coming out of a 
half-century marked by two world wars. It was a world 
of delicate balances. This is not the time for balances, 
but  rather  for  firm  commitments.  It  is  time  to  forge 
more policies among nations and leave behind disunity 
in  decision-making.  For  seven  decades,  the  United 
Nations has been the guarantor of peace, human rights, 
justice and sustainable development. When it is time to 
take a determined decision, each country and each ruler 
knows that the international community and the world 
are  watching.  As  representatives  of  the  international 
community,  we  must  also  be  aware  that  the  world  is 
watching  us  and  that  our  decisions  will  be  judged  by 
future generations. To those future generations we must 
leave a more just, prosperous, peaceful and sustainable 
world.
For 70 years, heads of State, prime ministers and 
ministers have stood and spoken at this rostrum. They 
have done so to talk about peace and promoting human 
rights and justice. There will come a day when we will 
no  longer  need  to  defend  those  values  so  vehemently, 
because we will have made them into a reality.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Head of Government of the Principality of Andorra for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit,  Head  of  Government  of 
the Principality of Andorra, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Nikola Gruevski, President 
of the Government of the former Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President 
of the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia.
Mr. Nikola Gruevski, President of the Government 
of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Nikola 
Gruevski,  President  of  the  Government  of  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and inviting him to 
address the General Assembly.
(spoke 
Mr.  Gruevski  (the  former  Yugoslav  Republic 
in  Macedonian;  English 
of  Macedonia) 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  my 
privilege  to  participate  in  the  general  debate  in  the 
year  in  which  we  mark  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the establishment of the United Nations, the twentieth 
anniversary of the Beijing Conference, a decade and a 
half since the adoption of the Millennium Declaration 
(resolution  55/2)  and  a  decade  since  the  2005  World 
Summit.
Since  1945  and  the  end  of  the  devastating  war 
that  took  the  lives  of  more  than  50  million  people, 
4/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
the  United  Nations,  firmly  committed  to  promoting 
freedom from want and fear, has established itself as a 
determined and driving force behind the international 
community and positive changes in the world. Critics 
of  the  United  Nations  mission  say  we  live  in  a  world 
in  which  conflicts  in  many  regions  are  perpetuating 
and affecting the lives of millions while new conflicts 
emerge and affect the lives of millions more; a world 
where arms proliferation jeopardizes innocent lives and 
undermines economic development; a world of extreme 
poverty, lacking a collective will to agree on the issues 
affecting  us  all,  such  as  climate  change.  We  live  in  a 
world with tens of millions of refugees and displaced 
persons.
Despite  all  of  that,  I  do  not  think  that  the  United 
Nations  has  failed  in  its  mission.  On  the  contrary,  it 
has resolved or mitigated difficult situations and issues 
that no one could handle alone, and it continues to do 
so. That is why we gather regularly here in New York 
to  discuss  and  develop  instruments  that  demonstrate 
how  the  United  Nations  can  better  cope  with  various 
existing  and  emerging  challenges.  The  failures  do 
not  fall  only  on  our  Organization,  but  predominantly 
on Member States, due to a lack of political will, and 
sometimes courage, to take bold but essential decisions.
Our  common  efforts  with  regard  to  human  rights 
should focus on reinforcing the system that guarantees 
human  rights  both 
individually  and  collectively. 
We  should  support  endeavours  aimed  at  ensuring 
the  protection  of  human  rights  as  the  essence  of  the 
strategies  and  operational  activities  of  the  United 
Nations.  What  we  need  for  the  present  and  for  the 
future is for the United Nations to continue to exercise 
its global leadership role for the benefit of mankind. In 
that  context  it  is  encouraging  that  the  Member  States 
decided to give a greater role to the General Assembly 
in the upcoming election of the next Secretary-General. 
Given the fact that no Secretary-General has ever been 
elected from the Group of Eastern European States, we 
stand firmly in support of our Group’s request in that 
regard.
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  remains  a  staunch 
supporter of multilateralism with the United Nations at 
its heart, and believes in the benefits of multilateralism 
to the world. It remains the core principle of our foreign 
policy.
While we live in an era of unprecedented technology, 
with  immense  innovations  that  make  our  lives  easier 
and  with  examples  of  the  dedication  of  the  scientific 
community,  such  as  the  work  on  the  Ebola  vaccine 
that  brought  hope  and  a  possible  cure,  humankind  is 
still confronted with issues that threaten international 
peace and stability. They threaten our development and 
prosperity, and they threaten our future.
In this ever more globalized world, where today’s 
news is already in the past, where no one individual is 
isolated from the problems of the others, we need a bold 
shift in our policies. To resolve problems, the policies 
of  commitment,  cooperation  and  wisdom  should  be 
our  common  choice,  with  a  proactive  approach  and 
maximum engagement. High moral standards must be 
the main pillars that articulate a new world reality. In 
their essence they embody freedom and human rights 
and  solidarity  for  humankind.  The  United  Nations 
must  continue  with  this  principle  in  mind:  to  protect 
democracy.
Those  standards  must  remain  at  the  heart  of  our 
new  policies  today,  and  we  must  keep  this  solidarity 
in mind. That is essential. The past 70 years of United 
Nations  experience  have  led  us  to  understand  that  all 
Member  States  must  be  committed  to  the  process  of 
United  Nations  reform.  The  future  world  should  be 
multipolar and avoid the senseless wars that have caused 
so many nations to suffer. We should face reality and 
prepare the future for the coming generations.
The region of South-East Europe is now entering a 
phase of positive development, and, in general, national 
and regional primary objectives have been fulfilled or 
are within reach. Despite that progress, it is clear that 
certain  longstanding  unresolved  or  partially  resolved 
bilateral issues are negatively affecting our present and 
on our near future. The Republic of Macedonia is facing 
an open dispute that has become a serious obstacle to 
our  integration  in  international  organizations.  That 
dispute  presents  an  obstacle  to  progress  in  building 
capacity aimed at preventing breakdowns in stability in 
times of great global stress.
Our  region  faces  two  key  strategic  and  global 
challenges. The first is the refugee and migrant crisis, 
and the second and more dangerous one concerns the 
aspirations  of  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham 
(ISIS)  to  penetrate  to  a  greater  extent  into  Europe, 
which brings with it a more serious danger to European 
economies and to sustainable development. Even worse, 
the ISIS agenda is to destroy societies that are based on 
universal values and principles protected by the United 
Nations.
15-29816
5/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
Today,  not  just  my  country,  but  the  whole  of  the 
Balkans  and  Europe  are  faced  with  thousands  of 
refugees — children, women, elderly people and entire 
families  who  are  fleeing  the  bloodshed  in  their  home 
countries. Since the beginning of 2015, nearly 200,000 
people,  mainly  Syrians,  have  transited  through  the 
Republic  of  Macedonia.  Syria’s  neighbours  Lebanon, 
Turkey and Jordan are also heavily affected. The first 
signs of that heavy social burden are now being felt in 
the  Balkan  countries,  whose  economies  cannot  cope 
with the situation on their own.
For our part, we will  do everything  in our  power 
to  help  those  people  who  have  needs  and  people  who 
seek  peace  and  cherish  the  hope  for  safe  travel  and 
for a safe and decent life. Regardless of the economic 
and sustainability aspects, we are trying to help them 
by  overcoming  certain  weaknesses  in  the  established 
system,  with  a  strong  commitment  to  contributing  to 
the creation of positive solutions for the people based 
on  their  needs.  However,  we  cannot  do  the  job  alone. 
The  problem  requires  stronger  engagement  from 
the  European  Union  in  cooperation  with  the  Balkan 
countries.  Such  a  commitment  would  also  be  quite 
significant for the enhancement of cooperation on other 
practical levels.
In that manner, the challenge we face will have some 
positive effects. Besides helping the people in need, it 
will also mean significant improvements in standards 
in  the  Balkan  countries  and  the  implementation  of 
European  values  and  approaches  through  cooperation 
on solutions. What is also crucial — indeed the only way 
to resolve the refugee crisis — is for Europe to urgently 
address  the  main  reason  for  their  suffering  —  in  this 
case, the Syrian conflict. The existing differences with 
regard  to  solutions  must  be  put  aside.  We  need  unity 
and a concerted United Nations and Security Council 
position,  such  as,  for  example,  that  which  achieved 
positive  results  in  the  agreement  on  the  elimination 
of  Syria’s  chemical  weapons,  a  situation  in  which 
diplomacy accomplished a great victory.
The situation in the Middle East is growing worse. 
The appearance of ISIS has worsened the situation even 
more. The security situation, aggravated by the presence 
of foreign fighters, has brought a new challenge for us in 
dealing with religious intolerance and extreme hatred. 
ISIS  is  not  a  threat  only  to  the  Middle  East  but  is  a 
global threat to which no country is immune, especially 
the  countries  of  South-East  Europe,  where  there  is  a 
bigger risk of greater penetration by ISIS and of greater 
influence on the population. Those facts can have very 
serious consequences, leading to the destabilization of 
multi-ethnic societies. That is why peace in the Middle 
East in particular is an issue of the utmost importance. 
The P5+1 agreement with Iran is a positive development 
for the region, since it serves as a model that could be 
followed for the situation in Syria.
We need to pursue a policy of prevention, which is 
precisely what we have been discussing in the United 
Nations and in our region. That is why, through the joint 
efforts of the United Nations in the collective security 
area, especially the security services within the region, 
we must prevent the manifestation of extremism in the 
region  by  heading  off  isolated  conflicts  or  efforts  to 
destabilize the region. Actions to repress the core ISIS 
forces  are  a  positive  step  forward.  But  we  must  also 
continue to address the populations in the region, based 
on social inclusion and the values of the United Nations, 
because extremist groups target them for recruitment.
tighten 
South-East  Europe  must 
its  security 
arrangements  and  move  forward  to  solve  outstanding 
questions in accordance with the principles of the United 
Nations. That strategic effort must be an urgent priority 
for  the  United  Nations.  The  Republic  of  Macedonia 
remains a positive, instructive actor, seeking to make a 
positive contribution to good neighbourly relations and 
regional  cooperation  in  ways  that  unite  cooperation 
with security. This year, our country is serving as the 
President of the Central European Initiative, and we are 
focusing  on  promoting  regional  interconnections  and 
the development of infrastructure connections. 
The main strategic and foreign policy priority of the 
Republic of Macedonia remains our membership in the 
European Union and in NATO. All reforms undertaken 
in the country bear that goal in mind. All problems are 
being resolved in that spirit. Despite the challenges we 
face, allow me to stress that we expect no obstacles on 
our path to the North Atlantic community.
One unanswered question relating to the permanent 
stability  of  our  region  that  directly  influences  my 
country and remains on the United Nations agenda is 
the difference we have with Greece on the name of my 
country, that is, the difference we have with regard to 
our  constitutional  name,  the  Republic  of  Macedonia. 
Resolving  that  issue  with  our  neighbour  is  a  priority 
that should be pursued in accordance with the relevant 
United Nations resolutions and international law, which 
are defined. We seek discussions on a mutually agreed 
solution.
6/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
Our position is clear. There is the reality that we are 
Macedonians, that we speak the Macedonian language 
and that we live in a country whose constitutional name 
is the Republic of Macedonia. International law must be 
abided by all and in all cases, not just in certain cases. 
That is why the decision of the International Court of 
Justice, handed down in favour of my country, must be 
respected by all Members of the Organization, precisely 
because the Court was founded by the United Nations 
and must be seen as a guarantor of the execution of the 
law and the bilateral agreements concluded under the 
auspices of the United Nations. Otherwise, trust in the 
United  Nations  will  fall  and  sceptics  who  attack  the 
validity of the Organization will gain strength.
that 
In  the  25  years  since  gaining  independence, 
my  country,  the  Republic  of  Macedonia,  has  seen 
a  transformation  of  its  region  and  of  Europe.  The 
impression  has  arisen,  unfortunately,  both  in  my 
country  and  elsewhere, 
the  United  Nations 
is  resisting  dealing  with  our  problem  and  is  even 
an  obstacle  to  progress  on  that  and  other  issues  in 
my  country.  Such  an  approach  by  the  international 
community can set precedents and can, unfortunately, 
be  easily  manipulated  to  cause  broad  instability. 
Serious commitment is required if Greece is going to 
be motivated to improve its performance on the issue.
Its  inertia  stems,  at  least  partly,  from  its  economic 
problems.
The international community’s failure to focus on 
my country has allowed key players to give minimum 
priority  to  the  issue.  As  two  friendly  nations  that, 
except  for  this  issue,  do  not  have  any  other  problems 
with  each  other,  we  have  to  find  a  solution.  We  must 
respect and talk to each other and cooperate with each 
other in a positive spirit of friendship and cooperation 
with all countries in the region. My country will work 
towards that end, both for its own sake and for the sake 
of the region.
As  we  have  done  before,  I  would  like  to  call 
upon  the  new  Government  in  Greece,  in  the  spirit  of 
the  good-neighbourly  relations,  to  resolve  this  issue 
as  neighbours,  respecting  the  1995  Interim  Accord 
between Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia, which is the cornerstone of our relations. 
The Accord is an agreement made under the auspices of 
the United Nations, and it by now should have brought 
about a resolution of the dispute, not its postponement. 
We  have  recently  developed  a  new  approach  that 
should  take  us  forward  and  create  a  positive  climate 
for resolving the issue. I hope that that approach will 
be  pursued  with  the  new  Greek  Government  and  that 
prejudices can be overcome.
Today’s  generation  of  politicians  should  use  the 
Accord,  which  was  created  24  years  ago  as  a  purely 
political instrument and a road map. We need to move 
towards a commonly agreed solution supported by the 
citizens  of  both  countries,  which,  while  helping  the 
Republic  of  Macedonia  to  move  forward,  will  be  a 
positive step for Greece and contribute to the positive 
atmosphere in the region. Such a solution will strengthen 
the region, so that it can deal with the challenges posed 
by  radical  elements  and  provide  a  better  response  to 
humanitarian crises.
We  seek  a  permanent  resolution  of  the  issue, 
one  that  opens  economic  possibilities  in  the  form  of 
increased  investment  in  our  countries  and  the  region. 
We  must  expand  our  ambitions  to  include  large-scale 
infrastructure projects that involve the efforts of several 
countries and that will lead to growth in the economies 
of all countries in the region and the creation of tens of 
thousands of new jobs. Similarly, we will move forward 
on the strategic goal of lowering unemployment in our 
country,  which  has  been  a  fundamental  goal  in  my 
political life.
Many of us have had great economic successes in the 
past year. Although I may not sound humble in saying 
so, my country is one of the economic surprises of the 
past few years. We have attracted a lot of investment, 
including  investments  in  large-scale  projects,  which 
has accelerated the economic progress of our citizens, 
developed education and improved standards in almost 
every sphere, which will naturally benefit the country 
and the region.
I  would  reiterate  once  again  here,  from  this 
rostrum,  as  we  invoke  the  purposes  and  principles 
of  the  United  Nations,  that  it  is  incumbent  on  my 
country  and  our  neighbour  to  the  south  to  make  full 
use of international law and justice so as to responsibly 
resolve the outstanding issue between us. As we try to 
overcome the issue for the sake of European values and 
our common future, the positions of both our countries 
must nevertheless be respected.
In  this  anniversary  year,  under  the  leadership 
of  President  Lykketoft,  the  General  Assembly  will 
address  issues  of  critical  importance  for  all  of  us.  I 
would like to emphasize our support for him and wish 
him  every  success.  The  Republic  of  Macedonia  will 
15-29816
7/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
continue to work together with all States Members of 
the  United  Nations  to  strengthen  international  peace 
and  security,  promote  human  rights  and  achieve  the 
global development goals.
of my delegation for the sterling manner in which his 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  so  ably 
guided  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  during  its 
sixty-ninth session.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  express  our  gratitude  for 
the Secretary-General’s leadership and tireless efforts 
aimed at taking our Organization forward.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Nikola Gruevski, President of the Government 
of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Freundel Stuart, Prime 
Minister, Minister for National Security, 
the Public Service and Urban Development 
of Barbados
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister,  Minister  for  National  Security,  the  Public 
Service and Urban Development of Barbados.
Mr. Freundel Stuart, Prime Minister, Minister for 
National  Security,  the  Public  Service  and  Urban 
Development  of  Barbados,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Freundel  Stuart,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
National  Security,  the  Public  Service  and  Urban 
Development of Barbados, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly.
Mr.  Stuart  (Barbados):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
congratulating  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  on  his  election 
to the presidency of General Assembly at its seventieth 
session.  He  represents  a  country,  Denmark,  whose 
service to the United Nations and the global community 
has  been  exemplary.  I  anticipate  that  in  upholding 
those  fine  traditions,  Mr.  Lykketoft  will  guide  us 
judiciously  as  we  embark  on  the  journey  towards  the 
Organization’s  centenary.  I  assure  him  of  Barbados’ 
full support as we begin to implement the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), striving 
collectively  to  address  the  diverse  challenges  that 
States Members of the United Nations are facing. I also 
take this opportunity to express the sincere admiration 
Three  score  and  ten  years  ago,  50  delegations, 
assisted  by  a  temporary  Secretariat,  gathered  in  San 
Francisco to sign the Charter that established the United 
Nations. That was a moment whose consequences have 
been  felt  across  space  and  time  and  resonate  with  a 
unique power to this day. Of course, Barbados, like the 
overwhelming  majority  of  countries  that  today  make 
up  the  United  Nations,  was  not  among  the  countries 
represented  in  San  Francisco  on  26  June  1945.  Only 
50  delegations  gathered  then,  representing,  generally 
speaking, the victors of the Second World War. In stark 
contrast to that select group gathered on that summer 
day  in  1945,  the  membership  of  this  Organization 
today  totals  193  States  and  represents  virtually  all  of 
humankind.
In  Paris  in  December,  196  delegations,  including 
that  of  Barbados,  will  gather  for  the  twenty-first 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change. 
At  that  meeting,  we  will  agree  on  collective  action 
that  will  make  possible  the  continued  survival  of  our 
planet. That is an existential issue for all countries, but 
in  particular  for  those  like  mine  that  are  small  island 
developing States. Our countries stand on the edge of 
the  yawning  abyss  opened  up  by  climate  change.  For 
those  who  framed  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
the cessation of global wars was the single existential 
threat.  While  that  threat  undeniably  remains  today,  it 
would be to our peril not to accord climate change the 
same deadly capacity to threaten our planet.
Barbados  and  all  the  countries  of  the  Caribbean 
Community  have  made  clear  their  views  on  what 
should  be  the  outcome  of  the  twenty-first  session  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Climate  Change 
Convention.  All  parties  should  commit  to  taking 
individual  and  collective  action  to  curb  greenhouse 
gas emissions in line with our ambitious goal to hold 
the average global temperature increase to well below 
1.5°C above pre-industrial levels, and all parties should 
commit  to  cooperating  on  taking  such  action  and 
submitting  to  regular  five-year  cycles  of  reporting, 
verification and updating on mitigation commitments. 
All  parties  should  also  commit  to  supporting  the 
particularly vulnerable countries, which are the small 
island  developing  States  and  the  least  developed 
8/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
countries.  In  short,  we  need  an  ambitious,  high-
performance,  legally  binding  agreement  with  global 
participation.
The tragedy that struck our sister Caribbean nation 
of  Dominica,  battered  last  month  by  Tropical  Storm 
Erika,  highlights  the  urgency  of  an  effective  global 
response to climate change. As we have often seen, a 
single  natural  or  man-made  disaster  in  a  small  island 
developing  State  can  have  catastrophic  economic, 
infrastructural and humanitarian effects on a national 
scale, It has been estimated that the damage caused by 
Erika set Dominica’s development back by 20 years. As 
Chairman of the Conference of Heads of Government 
of  the  Caribbean  Community,  I  take  this  opportunity 
to express the region’s unwavering solidarity with and 
commitment  to  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  Dominica, 
and I call on the international community to continue 
to help Dominica in its hour of need.
History is a superb teacher. Seventy years on from 
the creation of the United Nations, it is appropriate that 
we reflect on the path that small States like mine have 
helped to prepare. It is a path made possible in large part 
by the principles that this Organization has embraced 
from its inception, which are embodied in the Charter 
and in the many treaties, resolutions and plans of action 
of the United Nations. It is a path from exclusivity to 
universality,  a  path  that  has  seen  a  near  quadrupling 
of  the  Organization’s  membership  in  70  years,  and  a 
path towards an international legal order that seeks to 
balance the rights of States with their responsibilities, 
including their responsibilities to their citizens.
Without  question, 
those  changes  combine 
to 
reflect  a  significant  and  positive  transformation  of 
the  international  system  —  a  transformation  that  has 
seen  the  country  that  I  have  the  honour  to  represent 
move from subordination under colonial status to full 
sovereignty.  In  2016,  Barbados  will  proudly  celebrate 
the fiftieth year of its independence and its membership 
in the United Nations. The United Nations has provided 
a forum where all countries, irrespective of their size or 
geopolitical influence, can meet, discuss and sometimes 
argue, always on an equal footing.
The  transformation  of  the  United  Nations  has 
provided  the  necessary  but  hardly  the  sufficient 
conditions 
the 
extraordinary  promise  expressed  in  the  Preamble 
and  Article  1  of  the  Charter.  Member  States  have  by 
and  large  failed  to  eliminate  the  scourge  of  war,  and 
the  Organization 
for 
to 
realize 
relations  among  nations  are  not  everywhere  friendly. 
International cooperation has not, by itself, solved many 
international economic, social, cultural or humanitarian 
problems, nor has it everywhere encouraged respect for 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  The  United 
Nations  has  not  proven  able  to  harmonize  the  actions 
of  nations  in  the  attainment  of  those  common  ends. 
And  for  small  developing  countries  in  particular,  the 
promised emphasis on development has yet to be fully 
realized.
Development is a plant of tender growth and cannot 
flourish  in  an  environment  where  there  is  no  peace. 
It  is  therefore  heartening  to  learn  of  the  reduction  of 
tensions between the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela 
and  the  Cooperative  Republic  of  Guyana,  which  was 
facilitated  by  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations. Over the years the tensions between those two 
countries  had  the  effect  of  stymying  the  development 
potential of Guyana. I should like to take advantage of 
this  opportunity  to  express  my  country’s  unwavering 
commitment to the territorial integrity of Guyana and 
to state our support for a juridical solution to a dispute 
that has lasted far too long.
Is  it  permissible  to  inquire  whether  the  world  is 
a  safer  and  more  peaceful  place  today  than  it  was  in 
1945? While there have been no world wars of the kind 
that  precipitated  the  founding  of  this  Organization, 
proxy  wars  and  internecine,  fratricidal  conflicts  have 
proliferated.  The  United  Nations  has  registered  many 
successes in addressing the myriad challenges to peace 
and  security  that  have  confronted  the  international 
community over the past 70 years. However, as Member 
States, it is our responsibility, and ours alone, to ensure 
that the United Nations is equipped and empowered to 
do much more.
Like many around the world, we in the Caribbean 
are  deeply  concerned  about  the  connected  crises  of 
refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons.  We  regret 
that the international community has failed to take the 
firm political action necessary to bring those crises to 
an end. We underscore that if people are able to live in 
peace and security and in an environment that respects 
their  human  rights,  they  will  feel  less  compelled  to 
flee their countries, which they have often done under 
conditions  that  place  their  lives,  and  those  of  their 
children,  in  peril.  We  cannot  afford  to  be  indifferent. 
As Nobel Laureate Elie Wiesel has noted: “Indifference 
is  always  the  friend  of  the  enemy,  for  it  benefits  the 
aggressor.”
15-29816
9/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
I  have  described  the  contours  of  an  international 
system  radically  different  from  the  one  established 
when  the  United  Nations  was  born  70  years  ago. 
Collectively  and  individually,  we  struggle  to  address 
many of the problems that we now face. 
In 2013, the General Assembly adopted the Arms 
Trade Treaty (resolution 68/31) to regulate international 
trade  in  conventional  weapons,  with  the  expectation 
that it will contribute to the prevention and eradication 
of  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light  weapons. 
Through  the  determined  efforts  of  the  countries  of 
the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM)  and  other 
like-minded States, small arms and light weapons and 
their ammunition, parts and components were included 
in  the  scope  of  the  Treaty.  Barbados  was,  therefore, 
pleased to ratify the Arms Trade Treaty in May of this 
year.
to  oppose, 
In July of this year, under the presidency of New 
Zealand, the Security Council held its first-ever open 
debate on the particular peace and security challenges 
facing small island developing States (see S/PV.7499). 
At that meeting, Barbados indicated that it has always 
opposed,  and  continues  strongly 
the 
proliferation and use of nuclear, biological and chemical 
weapons.  However,  for  countries  like  Barbados,  the 
real  weapons  of  mass  destruction  are  small  arms  and 
light weapons, and our focus is necessarily on the trade 
in  those  weapons,  which  often  goes  arm-in-arm  with 
the traffic in illicit drugs and other forms of organized 
crime. Both have the capacity to seriously undermine 
our economies and destabilize our societies. Barbados 
welcomes  the  initiative  and  persistence  that  made 
possible  the  adoption  of  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  and 
commits to playing its part in addressing global peace 
and security challenges.
Also  in  July  of  this  year,  we  adopted  the  Addis 
Ababa  Action  Agenda  (resolution  69/313,  annex), 
which  provides  a  series  of  bold  measures  to  overhaul 
global  finance  practices  and  generate  investments  for 
tackling a range of economic, social and environmental 
challenges.
Finally,  last  week  we  adopted  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1),  which 
formulates a new development agenda based on the 17 
Sustainable Development Goals. The link between the 
2030  Agenda  and  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  is 
clear: the former sets out the Goals and the latter the 
means  of  their  attainment.  One  without  the  other  is 
bereft of meaning.
I take this opportunity to connect those important 
initiatives  to  a  concern  that  the  countries  of  the 
Caribbean Community and others have been expressing 
for  some  time,  most  recently  during  our  meeting  of 
Heads of Government in July, which, this year, Barbados 
had  the  honour  to  host.  The  United  Nations  and  the 
international  financial  institutions  must  address  the 
matter  of  the  graduation  of  middle-income  countries, 
such  as  Barbados,  from  access  to  concessionary  and 
grant-based  financing.  Now,  we  contend,  is  the  time 
to  develop  and  utilize  appropriate  measurements  for 
development that go beyond a simplistic reliance on a 
country’s gross domestic product per capita.
It was with especial pleasure that we received the 
news  earlier  this  year  that,  43  years  after  Barbados 
and three other CARICOM member States —Trinidad 
and  Tobago,  Jamaica  and  Guyana  —  had  ended  their 
diplomatic  isolation  of  Cuba,  the  United  States  of 
America  has  decided  to  do  the  same.  For  Barbados, 
that must be seen as a positive development, as we have 
been  calling  consistently,  insistently  and  persistently 
since  1972  for  an  end  to  the  economic  embargo, 
which has not only retarded the development of Cuba 
but  has  also  cheated  its  people  of  the  opportunity  to 
fulfil  their  aspirations,  as  they  should.  My  delegation 
congratulates  President  Barack  Obama  of  the  United 
States of America for the hindsight, the insight, and the 
foresight that informed his decision and looks forward 
to  the  process  of  Cuba’s  total  embrace  through  the 
removal, in the near future, of the economic embargo.
In a similar vein, it is not without significance that 21 
months before we adopted the 2030 Agenda, the General 
Assembly adopted resolution 68/237, which proclaimed 
the  International  Decade  for  People  of  African 
Descent, under the theme, “People of African descent: 
recognition,  justice  and  development”,  commencing 
on 1 January 2015 and ending on 31 December 2024. 
The  Decade  was  launched  by  the  Secretary-General 
in December 2014, with the keynote address delivered 
by  Barbadian  Professor  Sir  Hilary  Beckles,  then  Pro-
Vice  Chancellor  of  the  University  of  the  West  Indies. 
My  delegation  confidently  expects  that  as  we  pursue 
the Sustainable Development Goals, due regard will be 
accorded to the reparative justice contemplated not only 
by the theme of that very important Decade, but also by 
its specific mention in the programme of activities for 
the implementation of the Decade.
Permit  me 
to 
into  our 
Organization’s history, for it continues to illuminate our 
reach  back  again 
10/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
present and to set out the way forward for our future. 
When he took office as the first Secretary-General of 
the  United  Nations,  the  Norwegian  diplomat,  Trygve 
Lie, said at one of the earliest meetings of the General 
Assembly, on 2 February 1946: 
“The  purpose  of 
the  United  Nations 
is 
the  maintenance  of  peace  in  an  atmosphere  of 
international  security  and  general  well-being  … 
But there is a close connection between the peace 
problem and the economic and social conditions of 
the countries of the world.” (A/PV.22, p. 325)
Barbados, a small island developing State, has been 
and remains a staunch supporter of the United Nations, 
committed to the principles of multilateralism and the 
sovereign  equality  of  States  and  to  the  inextricable 
link between peace and security, on the one hand, and 
economic and social development, on the other. Today 
those principles, we are proud to say, are nowhere better 
reflected  than  in  the  ideals  to  which  States  Members 
of the United Nations still subscribe in their collective 
march to promote, for the peoples of the world, social 
progress and better standards of life in larger freedom.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister,  Minister  for  National  Security,  the 
Public Service and Urban Development of Barbados for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr. Freundel Stuart, Prime Minister, Minister for 
National  Security,  the  Public  Service  and  Urban 
Development  of  Barbados,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Michel Kafando, 
President of the Transition, President of Faso and 
Minister of National Defense, Veterans Affairs and 
Minister of Security of Burkina Faso
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Michel  Kafando,  President  of  the  Transition, 
President of Faso and Minister of National Defense and 
Veterans Affairs  and  Minister  of  Security of  Burkina 
Faso.
Mr.  Michel  Kafando,  President  of  the  Transition, 
President of Faso and Minister of National Defense 
and  Veterans  Affairs  and  Minister  of  Security 
of  Burkina  Faso,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Michel 
Kafando, President of the Transition, President of Faso 
and Minister of National Defense and Veterans Affairs 
and Minister of Security of Burkina Faso, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Kafando  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  my 
honour  to  address  the  Assembly  as  President  of  the 
Transition of Burkina Faso. I wish to convey my warmest 
and most sincere appreciation to the General Assembly 
and  to  congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  to 
preside  over  the  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session. 
I  should  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to  his  predecessor, 
Mr. Sam Kutesa, for his clear-sighted guidance of the 
work of the sixty-ninth session.
Since  the  transition  that  I  am  leading  resulted 
from  a  popular  uprising  in  October  2014,  which  said 
“no” to the arbitrariness, nepotism and injustice of an 
undemocratic  regime,  I  have  come  here  to  promote 
liberty  and  democracy.  Here,  before  the  Assembly,  I 
have  come  to  extol  the  virtue  of  liberty,  true  liberty, 
the  liberty  that  the  French  revolutionaries  of  1789 
dreamed about and an ideal that so many human beings 
today  still  aspire  to.  I  want  to  call  for  liberty,  plain 
and simple. As I was deprived of liberty for a time, I 
know how precious it is. I have come here to pay tribute 
to  democracy,  which  today  has  become  a  universal 
canon  —  except  in  Burkina  Faso,  where  praetorians 
of  another  age  were  trying  to  row  against  the  tide  of 
history and attempted to seize our democracy in order 
to serve their sordid ambitions.
Thanks  to  the  international  community,  which  is 
the defender of those values   I just mentioned, I speak 
here freely before Member States. That was unthinkable 
only  two  weeks  ago,  when  I  was  jailed  during  the 
military  uprising.  On  16  September,  my  country, 
Burkina Faso, was the victim of a heinous coup d’état 
perpetrated by officers bought by vengeful politicians. 
Moreover,  that  happened  just  before  the  launch  of 
our  electoral  campaign.  The  wishes  of  the  people  of 
Burkina Faso were not taken into account. The national 
and spontaneous response of the people was impressive. 
They tried to block the path that those adventurers were 
attempting to take. Regrettably, that led to a tragic loss 
of life and many wounded. On that occasion, the people 
of Burkina Faso, and its youth in particular, showed an 
unprecedented level of patriotism.
15-29816
11/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
The  international  community  also  promptly  came 
forward to unanimously condemn the coup and support 
the  transition.  From  this  rostrum,  I  wish  to  thank  all 
the countries, without exception, and the international 
organizations, civil society organizations and journalists 
from  around  world  that  came  together  so  quickly  to 
frustrate the coup d’état, thereby enabling a return to 
normalcy and legitimacy. The people of Burkina Faso 
have asked me to speak to the Assembly, to the nations 
of  peace,  and  to  convey  our  deep  appreciation  to 
Member States. We ask them to continue to support our 
efforts to implant genuine democracy in Burkina Faso 
through the holding of free and transparent elections, 
which we will be organizing shortly.
I  have  spoken  at  length  about  my  country,  but 
now  I  wish  to  address  some  major  concerns  on  the 
international scene.
First,  the  global  economic  situation  continues  to 
develop unfavourably and thus makes demands of us, 
particularly with regard to our common commitment to 
eradicate  poverty,  especially  in  developing  countries. 
It  is  completely  obvious  that  we  are  far  from  having 
successfully  risen  to  the  challenge  of  fulfilling  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  although  several 
Member  States  have  made  significant  progress.  We 
must  thus  redouble  our  efforts  and  take  robust  action 
in  order  to  improve  the  living  conditions  of  our 
populations.  “A  new  commitment  to  action”  —  the 
theme we have chosen for our session calls on us to act 
quickly to attain tangible results through programmes 
that are  ambitious and, above all, pragmatic.
We  should  note,  in  that  context,  that  the  Addis 
Ababa Action Agenda adopted at the third International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  lays  the 
groundwork  for  the  effective  implementation  of  the 
post-2015  development  agenda  that  we  have  recently 
adopted (see resolution 70/1). We welcome the holding of 
that Conference, and we hope that the consensus forged 
around  a  new  generation  of  Sustainable  Development 
Goals will bring about social and economic well-being 
for our populations.
Climate change, a key parameter of development, 
merits  particular  attention.  That  is  why  the  tthe 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held 
in Paris in December, is so important. The environment 
pact  that  should  result  from  that  event  should  enable 
us  to  strengthen  the  protection  of  our  planet  against 
climate disasters and environmental agression arising 
from the abuses of a consumer society.
In  70  years  of  its  existence,  the  United  Nations 
has  unflaggingly  endeavoured  to  work  for  a  world  of 
peace,  a  world  that  is  safe.  Burkina  Faso  reaffirms 
its  determination  to  resolutely  support  peacekeeping 
efforts  around  the  world.  We  are  already  actively 
participating in peacekeeping operations, in our sister 
Republic  of  Mali,  for  example,  where  the  mission 
is  twofold:  to  ensure  security  in  the  country  and  to 
combat  terrorism.  We  contribute  to  the  international 
community’s  efforts  to  combat  terrorism  and  violent 
extremism,  as  the  eradication  of  those  phenomena 
requires a global coalition.
On  the  issue  of  disarmament,  we  must  continue 
our efforts to strengthen confidence among our States. 
Such confidence facilitated the conclusion of the Joint 
Comprehensive Plan of Action of 14 July 2015 on the 
Iran  nuclear  issue,  which  reassured  the  international 
community  with 
fears 
to 
concerning nuclear proliferation.
legitimate 
regard 
its 
We  encourage  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations likewise to move towards a peaceful resolution 
of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
With regard to Western Sahara, my country, which 
has always encouraged a negotiated political solution, 
reaffirms its endorsement the initiative of the Kingdom 
of  Morocco  promoting  a  status  of  autonomy  for  the 
Sahara region, as a credible and realistic alternative in 
the conclusion of that dispute. 
With regard to the American sanctions imposed on 
Cuba,  Burkina  Faso  favours  its  total  lifting.  We  also 
welcome  the  recent  positive  developments  between 
Cuba and the United States of America, which augure 
well for a definitive normalization of bilateral relations 
between the two countries.
A  full  Member  of  our  Organization,  Burkina 
Faso  endorses  the  reforms  aimed  at  streamlining  the 
functioning of the United Nations. On Security Council 
reform,  we  reiterate  our  full  support  for  the  African 
position,  which  is  based  on  the  Ezulwini  Consensus 
and the Sirte Declaration.
Always  respectful  of  the  ideals  of  the  United 
Nations, which are based on the principles of peaceful 
coexistence,  dialogue  and  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
disputes, we welcome and encourage a rapprochement 
12/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
between  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and  the 
Republic of China on Taiwan.
Development  Unit  of  the  Republic  of  Mauritius,  and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Before concluding, I wish to convey my appreciation 
for the international solidarity shown in eradicating the 
Ebola virus. We must not relax our vigilance. We must 
intensify  international  cooperation  to  maintain  those 
results and ensure that the countries severely affected 
by that disease can recover. The virtues of international 
solidarity and dialogue among nations must continue to 
inspire the United Nations so that together we can meet 
the challenges of our time.
In  the  tremendous  task  before  us  of  building  an 
international  society  that  is  more  democratic  and 
humane, Burkina Faso can always be found in the front 
ranks.  Burkina  Faso  wishes  to  reiterate  its  good  will 
and deeply thank the Assembly, yet again.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Transition,  President  of  Faso  and  Minister  of 
National  Defense,  Veteran  Affairs  and  Security  of 
Burkina Faso for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Michel  Kafando,  President  of  the  Transition, 
President of Faso and Minister of National Defense 
and  Veteran  Affairs  and  Minister  of  Security  of 
Burkina  Faso,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Sir Anerood Jugnauth, Prime 
Minister, Minister of Defence and Home 
Affairs, Minister of Rodrigues and National 
Development Unit of the Republic of Mauritius
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister,  Minister  of  Defence  and  Home  Affairs, 
Minister of Rodrigues and National Development Unit 
of the Republic of Mauritius.
Sir Anerood Jugnauth, Prime Minister, Minister of 
Defence and Home Affairs, Minister of Rodrigues 
and National Development Unit of the Republic of 
Mauritius, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Sir Anerood 
Jugnauth,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of  Defence  and 
Home  Affairs,  Minister  of  Rodrigues  and  National 
Sir  Anerood  Jugnauth 
(Mauritius):  Twelve 
years  ago,  I  bade  farewell  to  the  Assembly,  as  I  had 
decided to retire from active politics thereafter, which 
I did. However, destiny and the wish of the people of 
Mauritius brought me back into the political arena, and 
I stand here anew as Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Mauritius, following my electoral victory in December 
2014 through free and fair elections.
This  is  yet  another  affirmation  of  the  fact  that 
Mauritius  upholds  a  high  tradition  of  democracy, 
respect for human rights, the rule of law and peaceful 
coexistence. We will solemnly continue to uphold those 
universal  values,  which  require  our  careful  nurturing 
as States Members of the United Nations. For indeed, 
there can be no better tribute to the United Nations, as 
we celebrate the seventieth anniversary of the Charter, 
than  to  see  nations  working  together  to  sustain  those 
values and to promote the establishment of peace and 
security.
In that context, we commend the Secretary-General 
for the timely setting up of the High-level Independent 
Panel on Peace Operations to review the United Nations 
peace architecture. We are particularly supportive of the 
recommendation  for  stronger  and  deeper  partnerships 
among  global  and  regional  organizations  aimed  at 
promoting international peace and security. For we in 
Mauritius have witnessed how the collective efforts of 
the  United  Nations,  the  African  Union,  the  Southern 
African  Development  Community,  the  Indian  Ocean 
Commission and other regional economic communities 
unlocked 
in  Madagascar, 
enabling  our  neighbour  and  brother  nation  to  pursue 
its path to development. Similar collaboration has also 
enabled the African Union to deploy robust operations 
in  complex  situations  in  Mali,  the  Central  African 
Republic and Somalia.
the  political  stalemate 
Mauritius  strongly  condemns  the  recent  coup  in 
Burkina Faso and appreciates the current initiatives of 
the  United  Nations,  the  African  Union  and  Economic 
Community of West African States to keep that country 
on the path of democracy. Mauritius is fully committed 
to the implementation of Agenda 2063 of the African 
Union,  which  represents  the  collective  vision  of 
Africans for a peaceful, united and prosperous Africa.
We  congratulate  the  Palestinian  Authority  on 
the  occasion  of  the  formal  recognition  by  the  United 
15-29816
13/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
Nations  of  Palestine  as  an  Observer.  Mauritius  calls 
on the international community to put in even greater 
efforts to ensure that the two independent, secure and 
viable  States  of  Palestine  and  Israel  live  peacefully 
side  by  side.  Similarly,  we  wish  to  see  an  end  to  the 
phenomenon  of  refugees  fleeing  one  tragedy  only  to 
face an even greater disaster.
The  spread  of  armaments,  nuclear  proliferation, 
terrorism  and  piracy  remain  important  threats  to 
world  peace  and  require  our  constant  vigilance.  My 
country  will  therefore  pursue  its  fight  against  piracy 
as  a  member  of  the  Contact  Group  on  Somali  Piracy 
and  welcomes  the  decision  to  review  the  boundaries 
of  the  High  Risk  Area,  so  as  to  reduce  inflationary 
pressures on maritime and freight costs. We welcome 
the agreement reached on the Iranian nuclear issue and 
call for the implementation of the Joint Comprehensive 
Plan  of  Action,  as  it  can  contribute  to  international 
peace and security.
Let  me  share  with  the  Assembly  the  fact  that 
Mauritius  acceded  to  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  in  July, 
and yesterday I deposited our instrument of accession 
to  the  Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions.  As  we  deal 
with the issue of armaments, we must remain conscious 
of  the  fact  that  the  biggest  weapon  of  all  remains 
fear  —  the  fear  that  terrorists  use  so  extensively  to 
curtail freedom of thought, freedom of expression and 
impose  their  intolerance  upon  those  who  dare  to  be 
different. Mauritius unreservedly condemns terrorism, 
in  all  its  forms  and  remains  committed  to  combating 
intolerance  and  extremism,  whether  at  the  domestic 
level or internationally.
As we focus on peace and security, let us continue to 
let ourselves be inspired by the life and deeds of Mahatma 
Gandhi,  whose  birth  date  we  are  commemorating 
today. We have another golden opportunity here to pay 
tribute to the Mahatma, the apostle of nonviolence, the 
man who shunned intolerance and who asked us to live 
simply so that others may simply live.
As  a  small  island  developing  State  (SIDS)  that  is 
vulnerable to natural hazards, Mauritius believes that 
the  greatest  challenge  to  peace  and  security  in  the 
years to come will be climate change, which requires 
our utmost attention now. If we do not act collectively 
and in a spirit of solidarity, if we are unable to reach a 
binding climate agreement at the coming United Nations 
Climate Change Conference that would limit the world 
temperature  increase  to  less  than  1.5°C  compared  to 
1990,  we  will  be  failing  in  our  duty  towards  Mother 
Earth and future generations.
Let  there  be  a  space  carved  out  for  small  island 
developing  States,  the  most  vulnerable  of  all,  for  the 
least  developed  countries  (LDCs)  and  for  Africa 
to  enable  them  to  implement  fully  the  necessary 
mitigation  and  adaptation  measures.  Let  financing  be 
available  and  predictable,  in  addition  to  the  sharing 
of  technology  to  address  a  collective  threat.  In  this 
respect, Mauritius is pleased to host the Commonwealth 
Climate Finance Skills Hub, which will be launched at 
the forthcoming Commonwealth Heads of Government 
Meeting in Malta. This mechanism aims to assist SIDS 
and  LDCs  access  much-needed  funds  for  adaptation 
and mitigation.
Mauritius  particularly  welcomes  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  5,  relating  to  women’s  and  girls’ 
empowerment. Mauritius has made steady progress on 
this  agenda  and  continues  to  put  in  place  appropriate 
strategies  to  further  promote  gender  equality  in  all 
spheres  of  development.  I  am  proud  to  announce  that 
for  the  first  time  in  history,  my  country  has  three 
women  in  high  positions:  President  of  the  Republic, 
Vice-President, and Speaker of the National Assembly 
of Mauritius.
There can be no democracy without human rights 
and no human rights without development. A balance 
needs to be maintained in the trident of peace, human 
rights and development. 
We are living at a time of uncertainty when not a 
single nation is immune from external shocks, but some 
are more exposed than others.
As a small developing State, my country is highly 
vulnerable to external shocks and a high current account 
deficit.  We  depend  on  foreign  markets  for  tourism, 
trade and investments, and we have limited fiscal space 
to  manoeuvre.  In  addition,  our  ageing  population  not 
only leads to a reduction of our productive capacity, but 
also costs significant resources in terms of health care 
financing and retirement benefits. However, against this 
bleak backdrop, my Government is making sure that the 
welfare State, of which we are so proud, is maintained. 
We are re-engineering our economy. We have pledged 
to  achieve  an  average  gross  domestic  product  (GDP) 
growth  of  5.5  per  cent  annually  as  from  2017  on  the 
back of a technology- and innovation-driven economy 
focusing on sustainability and human development.
14/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
More  than  ever,  Mauritius  needs  the  support  of 
the  international  community  to  untangle  itself  from 
the  middle-income  web  and  reach  the  high-income 
country status. Financial institutions and development 
partners need to look beyond our relatively high GDP, 
which  obscures  the  real  cost  that  we  have  to  pay  for 
our  development  and  precludes  us  from  accessing 
vital  development  finance  and  support.  Development 
partners  should  not  forget  that  the  specific  and 
unique  vulnerabilities  of  SIDS  have  been  reiterated, 
highlighted  and  acknowledged  by  world  leaders  in 
the SIDS Accelerated Modalities of Action (SAMOA) 
Pathway and now in the post-2015 agenda.
Mauritius 
It  is  gratifying  to  note  that  the  Addis  Ababa 
International Conference on Financing for Development 
has pledged to support the economic transformation of 
SIDS and LDCs through domestic resource mobilization, 
catalytic  use  of  official  development  assistance  and 
strong  trade  commitments.  These  promises  should  be 
effectively translated into reality to drive forward our 
sustainable development agenda.
is  committed 
to  upholding  good 
governance,  transparency  and  the  rule  of  law  at 
all  levels.  We  have  been  very  active  in  ensuring 
effective implementation of international standards of 
transparency and exchange of information, with a view 
to combating tax evasion, money laundering and other 
malpractices. Mauritius was one of the earliest States 
to sign a Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement 
with  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development  (OECD), 
to  automatically  exchange 
information  on  financial  matters,  and  in  June  we 
reaffirmed  our  commitment  by  officially  signing 
the  OECD’s  multilateral  Convention  on  Mutual 
Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters.
In  March  this  year,  Mauritius  was  privileged  to 
host  the  signature  ceremony  for  the  United  Nations 
Convention on Transparency in Treaty-based Investor-
State Arbitration (resolution 69/116, annex), otherwise 
known as the Mauritius Convention on Transparency. 
By  being  the  first  country  to  sign  and  ratify  the 
Convention,  we  are  forcefully  demonstrating  our 
commitment to democratic participation, transparency 
and good governance.
The rule of law should be promoted not only at the 
national, but also at the international, level. We need to 
pursue meaningful efforts to reform the United Nations 
to make it more responsive to the needs and aspirations 
of  all  the  Member  States.  If  our  Organization  is  to 
remain  legitimate,  there  should  be  a  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  The  status  quo  is 
not  an  option.  The  legitimate  aspiration  of  Africa  for 
permanent  representation  in  the  Council  should  not 
be denied. Mauritius reaffirms its commitment to the 
African Common Position, enshrined in the Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration.  Small  island 
developing  States,  which  represent  over  a  quarter  of 
United  Nations  membership,  deserve  representation 
on  the  Council.  Likewise,  Mauritius  supports  India’s 
rightful  aspiration  to  a  permanent  seat  in  a  reformed 
Security Council.
firmly  supported 
Mauritius  has  always 
the 
resolution of disputes by peaceful means, as inscribed 
in the Charter of the United Nations. We believe that, 
in  accordance  with  resolutions  of  the  Assembly,  it  is 
high time to complete the process of decolonization in 
Africa.
It  is  also  high  time  to  resolve  the  situation  that 
prevents  Mauritius  from  effectively  exercising  its 
sovereignty over the Chagos Archipelago and the island 
of Tromelin, which form an integral part of the territory 
of  Mauritius.  The  Chagos  Archipelago  was  illegally 
excised  by  the  United  Kingdom  from  the  territory 
of  Mauritius  prior  to  its  accession  to  independence, 
in  breach  of  international  law  and  resolutions  of  the 
Assembly.  In  the  wake  of  that  illegal  excision,  the 
Mauritians who were residing at the time in the Chagos 
Archipelago  were  forcibly  evicted  by  the  British 
authorities, in total disregard of their human rights. Most 
of  them  were  moved  to  the  main  island  of  Mauritius. 
The Government of Mauritius is fully sensitive to their 
plight  and  to  their  legitimate  aspiration,  as  Mauritian 
citizens, to resettle in the Archipelago.
Mauritius  welcomes  the  Award  of  the  Arbitral 
Tribunal  delivered  on  18  March  against  the  United 
Kingdom, under the United Nations Convention on the 
Law  of  the  Sea.  We  welcome  the  Tribunal’s  decision 
that  the  Marine  Protected  Area  purportedly  declared 
by the United Kingdom around the Chagos Archipelago 
was  established  in  violation  of  international  law.  We 
also  welcome  the  Tribunal’s  unanimous  recognition 
that  Mauritius  has  an  interest  in  significant  decisions 
bearing  upon  the  uses  of  the  Archipelago  pending  its 
return to the effective control of Mauritius.
This  arbitral  proceeding  was  the  first  occasion 
on  which  any  international  judge  or  arbitrator  has 
considered the facts and history lying behind Mauritius’ 
entitlement to sovereignty over the Chagos Archipelago. 
15-29816
15/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
Mauritius appreciates the fact that two arbitrators have 
confirmed the opinion that the United Kingdom is not 
the coastal State in relation to the Chagos Archipelago. 
That view has not been contradicted by any other judge 
or arbitrator. It unquestionably confirms our stand that 
the  Chagos  Archipelago  is  and  always  has  been  an 
integral part of the territory of Mauritius.
The  Tribunal  underscores  the  United  Kingdom’s 
legally binding obligations to Mauritius. It establishes 
beyond  doubt  that  under  international  law  Mauritius 
has  real,  firm  and  binding  rights  over  the  Chagos 
Archipelago and that the United Kingdom must respect 
those  rights.  The  Tribunal  recognized  that  Mauritius 
has  a  legal  interest  in  the  Chagos  Archipelago  such 
that decisions affecting its future use cannot be taken 
without the involvement of Mauritius.
Despite  the  Tribunal’s  clear  ruling,  we  regret 
that  the  United  Kingdom  appears  to  be  adopting  a 
different  approach  to  Mauritius’s  rights.  It  recently 
launched  a  so-called  consultation  exercise  on  the 
potential  resettlement  of  Mauritians  of  Chagossian 
origin  in  the  Chagos  Archipelago  under  conditions 
that  again  amount  to  a  gross  violation  of  their  most 
basic  human  rights.  Mauritius  rejects  this  purported 
consultation exercise unreservedly. We wish to assure 
the international community that once Mauritius is able 
to effectively exercise its sovereignty over the Chagos 
Archipelago,  our  brothers  and  sisters  of  Chagossian 
origin who resettle there will be able to live in dignity 
and enjoy their basic human rights, as they currently do 
in Mauritius.
Considering  the  Tribunal’s  decision,  we  urge  the 
United  States  of  America,  which  is  currently  using 
Diego  Garcia  for  defence  purposes,  to  engage  in 
discussions  with  Mauritius  regarding  the  long-term 
interests  of  Mauritius  where  the  Chagos  Archipelago 
is  concerned,  particularly  in  view  of  the  affirmation 
by the President of the United States when he said so 
earnestly  in  his  address  to  the  Assembly  on  Monday 
that  “we  cannot  stand  by  when  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity  of  a  nation  is  flagrantly  violated” 
(A/70/PV.13, p. 12).
The  Government  of  Mauritius 
to  making  every  effort 
is 
resolutely 
committed 
that  accords 
with  international  law  to  enable  it  to  effectively 
exercise its sovereignty over the Chagos Archipelago, 
including  the  possibility  of  having  further  recourse 
to  judicial  or  arbitral  bodies.  We  urge  the  Assembly 
and the international community in general to support 
Mauritius in its legitimate endeavours. The Assembly 
has a direct institutional interest in the resolution of the 
matter.
The  Assembly  has  of  course  historically  played  a 
central  role  in  addressing  decolonization  through  the 
exercise  of  its  powers  and  functions,  especially  in 
relation  to  Chapters  XI  through  XIII  of  the  Charter 
of the United Nations. In its resolution 1514 (XV), of 
14 December 1960, on the granting of independence to 
colonial countries and peoples, the Assembly declared 
that  any  attempt  to  disrupt  the  territorial  integrity  of 
such  a  country  was  incompatible  with  the  purposes 
and principles of the Charter. In resolution 2066 (XX), 
of  16  December  1965,  which  dealt  specifically  with 
Mauritius, the Assembly drew attention to the duty of 
the administering Power not to dismember the territory 
or violate the territorial integrity of the then colony. 
The Assembly therefore has a responsibility to help 
to complete the historic process of decolonization that it 
so successfully instigated and oversaw in the second half 
of the twentieth century. That is why we are convinced 
that  the  Assembly  should  now  establish  a  mechanism 
to  enable  and  monitor  the  full  implementation  of  its 
relevant resolutions.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
Mauritius’s  deep  appreciation  for  the  unflinching 
support it has consistently received from members of the 
African Union, the Non-Aligned Movement, the Group 
of  77  and  China,  and  other  friendly  countries  on  the 
issue of its sovereignty over the Chagos Archipelago.
As  regards  Tromelin,  we  urge  France  to  pursue  a 
dialogue with Mauritius in order to quickly resolve the 
dispute over that island in the spirit of friendship that 
has always characterized the relationship between our 
two countries.
(spoke in French)
We know we can count on France’s nobility and its 
ideals of justice and fraternity to ensure that Mauritius 
can exercise effective sovereignty over Tromelin.
(spoke in English)
I  will  conclude  by  saying  that  for  peace,  security 
and  inclusive  and  sustainable  development  to  prevail 
in  our  countries,  we  must  act  from  our  hearts.  Only 
then  will  we  succeed  in  building  the  world  we  all 
dream of. We should take inspiration from the wisdom-
packed message of Pope Francis, who blessed us with 
16/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
his presence in the Assembly last week. As he said so 
magnanimously:
“It  must  never  be  forgotten  that  political  and 
economic  activity  is  only  effective  when  it  is 
understood  as  a  prudential  activity,  guided  by 
a  perennial  concept  of  justice  and  constantly 
conscious  of  the  fact  that,  above  and  beyond  our 
plans  and  programmes,  we  are  dealing  with  real 
men and women, just like the Government leaders, 
who live, struggle and suffer, and are often forced 
to  live  in  great  poverty,  deprived  of  all  rights.” 
(A/70/PV.3, p. 4)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister, Minister of Defence and Home Affairs, 
Minister of Rodrigues and National Development Unit 
of  the  Republic  of  Mauritius  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Sir Anerood Jugnauth, Prime Minister, Minister of 
Defence and Home Affairs, Minister of Rodrigues 
and National Development Unit of the Republic of 
Mauritius, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Timothy S. Harris, 
Prime Minister, Minister for Sustainable 
Development, National Security, People 
Empowerment and Constituency Empowerment 
of Saint Kitts and Nevis
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister,  Minister 
for  Sustainable  Development, 
National  Security,  People  Empowerment 
and 
Constituency Empowerment of Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Mr. Timothy S. Harris, Prime Minister, Minister for 
Sustainable Development, National Security, People 
Empowerment and Constituency Empowerment of 
Saint Kitts and Nevis, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Timothy  S.  Harris,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Sustainable  Development,  National  Security,  People 
Empowerment  and  Constituency  Empowerment  of 
Saint Kitts and Nevis, and inviting him to address the 
Assembly.
Mr.  Harris  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  It  is  indeed 
an  honour  for  me  to  address  this  organ  of  the  United 
Nations  in  my  capacity  as  Prime  Minister  of  Saint 
Kitts  and  Nevis,  a  privilege  of  service  bestowed  on 
me following our people’s historic victory at the polls 
in February of this year. I take pleasure in sharing the 
perspectives  of  the  Government  and  people  of  Saint 
Kitts and Nevis on matters that are before the General 
Assembly at its seventieth session.
My delegation is pleased that the focus of the general 
debate, “The United Nations at 70: a new commitment 
to  action”,  will  shed  special  light  on  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, which form the basis of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). 
We  are  in  full  agreement  with  the  Assembly  that  the 
new  partnerships  for  sustainable  development  will  be 
at  the  centre  of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  until 
the  year  2030.  We  are  optimistic  that  the  post-2015 
development  agenda,  when  taken  in  conjunction  with 
the recently adopted Addis Ababa Action Agenda and 
a forward-looking and responsible outcome at the Paris 
Climate Change Conference in December, represents a 
courageous  step  forward  for  humankind  that,  if  fully 
implemented,  will  yield  the  kind  of  future  that  our 
children and grandchildren deserve.
So onward with action — the action that is required 
to create decent jobs for our people, build schools for 
our  children,  deliver  quality  health  care  for  all  and 
provide affordable homes to our working mothers and 
fathers.  Be  assured  that  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  stands 
committed to the process of implementation, which of 
course must include a robust, systematic and effective 
monitoring and review process.
Ms.  Mejía  Vélez  (Colombia),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Climate change is of utmost importance for us. It 
must never be placed on the proverbial back burner. I dare 
submit that for small island developing States (SIDS), 
like  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  it  remains  an  existential 
threat.  Our  economic,  social  and  environmental  well-
being  is  threatened  by  natural  disasters,  including 
devastating floods and persistent droughts, by sea-level 
rise, coastal erosion and ocean acidification. Those acts 
of nature have the capacity to undermine our economic 
growth, threaten food security and bring hardships on 
our people. The challenge to our vital tourism industry 
is unsettling, and the loss of entire coastal communities 
is  devastating  to  our  islands.  The  current  situation  in 
Dominica  represents  what  islands  face  when  dealing 
with  climate  change.  We  call  on  the  international 
community to do more to help small island developing 
States  adapt  and  adjust.  We  would  like  consideration 
15-29816
17/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
to  be  given  not  just  to  climate  change  adaptation  and 
mitigation, but also to disaster response, recovery and 
insurance.
When  we  speak  of  adaptation  to  climate  change 
and  the  wider  issue  of  disaster-risk  mitigation,  it  is 
incumbent on us to underscore the significant financial 
burden  that  is  placed  on  national  budgets  by  projects 
designed to build resilience and increase our chances of 
survival in the face of climate events. Access to global 
funding mechanisms such as the Green Climate Fund 
is  of  critical  importance  to  us.  For  too  long  we  have 
been  hamstrung  by  complex  application  procedures 
that have prevented us from accessing the vital funds 
needed to enable us to achieve sustainable development. 
We  appreciate  the  recent  decision  by  the  Green 
Climate Fund Board to aim for a floor of 50 per cent 
of the adaptation allocation for particularly vulnerable 
countries. We also appreciate the importance placed on 
filling capacity gaps in assessing and managing climate 
finance.  Access  to  finance,  if  it  is  to  be  meaningful, 
must be simplified and it must be timely.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  establishment  of  the 
SIDS  DOCK  facility  for  sustainable  energy,  which 
will  serve  as  a  clearing  house  for  the  implementation 
of  climate-related  projects  in  small  island  developing 
States.  We  acknowledge  the  assistance  provided  by 
our  partners  in  development.  We  are  convinced  that 
working closely with our partners to build effective and 
meaningful partnerships will accelerate the pathway to 
achieving sustainable development in all its dimensions.
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  has  emerged  as  a  leader  in 
renewable energy development in the Caribbean. Even 
now, our country has a mix of wind and solar power in 
our energy grid. By 2016, we shall add a waste-to-energy 
programme and by 2018 we shall add geothermal energy 
on the island of Nevis. We are working assiduously to 
reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and so reduce our 
carbon footprint. In that ambitious agenda, I thank all 
our international partners who have lent their technical 
assistance  and  expertise  in  advancing  the  renewable 
energy trust in my country.
The  Government  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  is 
fully  committed  to  social  equity,  justice,  people’s 
empowerment, good governance, transparency and, of 
course, prosperity for all. We are a people’s Government, 
born  out  of  the  desire  to  put  the  development  of  our 
people first. We therefore are hoping to build broader 
constituencies  of  support  on  several  fronts  to  address 
the problem of crime. 
At home, we instituted a six-point plan in our fight 
to reduce violent crime, in particular. We are investing 
in  new  equipment  and  training  to  support  our  law 
enforcement professionals in the prevention, detection 
and  solving  of  crimes.  We  are  working  hard  to  build 
a  new  professional  culture  among  and  between  our 
law enforcement agencies. We are encouraged by new 
statistics  pointing  to  a  decline  in  major  crimes  in  the 
Federation  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  while  accepting 
at the same time that much more still needs to be done.
Our  Government  is  determined  to  aggressively 
confront the issues of crime. We will work on multiple 
tracks,  including  working  to  empower  families  and 
communities  through  education,  skills  development 
initiatives  and  civic  programmes.  We  will  work  in 
schools,  with  non-governmental  organizations,  with 
our  religious  leaders  and  with  the  youths  themselves, 
especially  those  most  likely  to  become  targets  or 
perpetrators of criminal behaviour. We will offer them 
alternatives  and  opportunities  for  personal  growth, 
decent  work  and  constructive  engagement  in  our 
society. It is a challenge to which we are committed and 
which we have to win.
However,  if  small  States  are  to  overcome  the 
challenges  posed  and  exacerbated  by  transnational 
criminal  activities,  we  must  work  in  partnership. 
We  need  the  support  of  gun-producing  countries  to 
restrict  the  movement  of  illegal  guns,  light  weapons 
and ammunition. Those who produce firearms must do 
more to stop them from reaching our shores. We must 
share information and improve access to opportunities, 
education  and  employment,  because 
sustainable 
development  is  not  achievable  in  an  environment  of 
crime and violence. Prosperity must be built brick by 
brick, day by day, and is realizable solely in the context 
of peaceful and safe societies.
Saint Kitts and Nevis, like the rest of the Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM),  has  consistently  lent  its 
voice  to  the  clarion  call  for  greater  attention  to  the 
harmful impact of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) 
on our main resource: our human capital. We continue 
to  wrestle  with  the  high  incidence  of  diseases  like 
cancer, heart disease, diabetes and hypertension in our 
country and, indeed, throughout the CARICOM region. 
We  wish  to  reiterate  our  call  for  a  stronger  global 
response  in  combating  NCDs  in  developing  countries 
like  ours.  We  remain  hopeful  that  the  inclusion  of 
NCDs  in  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  the 
implementation  of  the  targets  and  indicators  at  the 
18/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
national level will reverse the high incidence of NCDs 
at the national, regional and global levels. The famous 
adage “A nation’s health is a nation’s wealth” resonates 
well  with  us.  We  therefore  urge  the  United  Nations 
system to play a leading role in that regard through its 
specialized agencies and regional offices.
We are pleased with the work of the Joint United 
Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS and our Pan Caribbean 
Partnership against HIV/AIDS in CARICOM, and we 
call  for  continued  global  solidarity  in  that  endeavour. 
My  own  country  is  on  track  to  achieve  zero  mother-
to-child  transmission  by  the  end  of  2015,  and  we  are 
committed  to  the  aim  of  making  CARICOM  the  first 
region in the world to end AIDS by 2030.
My Government is pleased to draw the international 
community’s  attention  to  the  invaluable  contribution 
by  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  China  on 
Taiwan  in  the  areas  of  international  cooperation, 
health, technology and peace and security. We live in 
an  age  when  global  partnership  is  a  prerequisite  for 
solving  complex  problems  at  the  international  level. 
The Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis is proud to 
announce  that  a  relationship  established  more  than 
three decades ago has yielded benefits in every area of 
sustainable  development.  Such  a  level  of  engagement 
between  a  developing  country  and  its  partner  in 
development  is  indeed  a  model  fit  for  consideration 
by small States such as ours in their quest to achieve 
sustainable development.
As  we  looked  for  models  and  arrangements  that 
would advance our global agenda, we found pragmatic, 
beneficial  value  in  our  PetroCaribe  agreement  with 
Venezuela in support of poverty alleviation and social 
cohesion.  Venezuela,  under  President  Chávez  and 
now  under  President  Maduro,  must  be  commended 
for  showing  the  world  that  there  can  be  a  better  and 
more  helpful  way  to  drive  the  development  agenda. 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  is  of  course  cognizant  of  the 
territorial issues that exist between Venezuela and our 
fellow CARICOM member State of Guyana. We expect 
the  leaders  of  Venezuela  and  Guyana  to  resolve  their 
issues peacefully and in accordance with international 
law. My Government stands willing to assist alongside 
CARICOM in resolving those very challenging issues.
Saint Kitts and Nevis is indeed pleased by the recent 
decision  of  the  Governments  of  Cuba  and  the  United 
States of America to re-establish diplomatic relations, 
a solution that CARICOM has long advocated. It is an 
opportune time for us to usher in a new era of regional 
partnership  and  cooperation.  My  own  country  has 
benefited  substantially  from  capacity-building  in  the 
areas of education and health thanks to our partnership 
with  Cuba.  We  applaud  several  prescriptions  outlined 
in  the  address  of  President  Castro  to  the  Assembly 
(see  A/70/PV.14)  that  call  for  better  arrangements  for 
Caribbean  countries  and  for  special  and  differential 
treatment. 
We  concur  that  the  issue  of  reparation  must  be 
seen  in  the  broader  context  of  the  evil  of  slavery  and 
its lingering negative impact on the development of the 
Caribbean. Reparation has to be considered a pathway 
to addressing the continuing disadvantages that slavery 
has inflicted on our economies and societies.
As part of our development agenda, Saint Kitts and 
Nevis will work daily to ensure that every citizen has 
access to high-quality health care, a twenty-first-century 
education, decent work and an improved quality of life 
consistent with the Sustainable Development Goals of 
the 2030 Agenda. We remain eager to work within the 
United  Nations  system,  but  the  United  Nations  must 
be  re-energized,  retooled  and  refocused  to  meet  the 
challenges of the twenty-first century. In fact, we want 
to see a United Nations strengthened and reflective of 
the  reality  of  our  world,  the  needs  of  its  membership 
and the wishes of our diverse and swelling populations.
In Saint Kitts and Nevis, we are building a modern, 
responsible and responsive society, rooted in democracy 
and the rule of law. We are optimistic that in the months 
and years ahead, the United Nations and its specialized 
agencies  will  be  more  robust,  nimble,  modern  and 
responsive  in  order  to  complement  our  work  and  be 
better  able  to  prevent  crises  in  ways  that  effectively 
improve lives. Through such commitments and actions 
we  will  transform  our  beloved  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis, 
the United Nations and indeed the world. God bless the 
country and people of Saint Kitts and Nevis.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister, Minister for Sustainable Development, 
National  Security,  People  Empowerment 
and 
Constituency  Empowerment  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Timothy  S.  Harris,  Prime  Minister,  Minister 
for  Sustainable  Development,  National  Security, 
People 
Constituency 
Empowerment  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Empowerment 
and 
15-29816
19/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
Address by Mr. Edi Rama, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Albania
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Albania.
Mr.  Edi  Rama,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Edi 
Rama, Prime Minister of the Republic of Albania, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Rama (Albania): One year ago, Pope Francis 
began his visits around Europe in Albania. Last week, 
we  saw  here  in  America  the  hope  and  joy  he  could 
bring to the richest and most powerful country in the 
world.  Imagine  the  joy  he  brought  to  us,  not  least  by 
the  praise  he  bestowed  on  Albania  in  saying  that  we 
were  proof  that  a  peaceful  and  fruitful  coexistence 
between  persons  and  communities  of  believers  of 
different  religions  is  not  only  desirable,  but  possible 
and realistic. We are rightly proud of that heritage; of 
coexisting  as  fraternal  communities  at  a  time  when 
religious extremism, violence and terrorism are causing 
unspeakable suffering — violence and extremism that 
have  put  multitudes  of  people  on  the  move  in  scenes 
reminiscent  of  the  exodus  of  biblical  times,  with 
children,  women  and  men  arriving  in  their  thousands 
on our doorsteps in the Balkans as they seek safety and 
protection in Europe.
As  everyone  here  probably  knows,  ethnically 
motivated  conflicts  and  violence  are  by  no  means 
unknown to us in the Balkans. Today, however, we as 
a region can finally dare to look ahead with hope and 
show that another way forward is possible. 
Last year, for the first time after 100 years of frozen 
or  live  conflicts  and  confrontation  in  the  Balkans, 
no  guns  were  pointed  at  anyone’s  window.  After  a 
century  scarred  by  conflict,  we  have  finally  seen  a 
year of cooperation aimed at making the peace we have 
achieved a peace worth living. 
The talks between Serbia and Kosovo, a new State 
contributing to stability in the region, have enabled the 
two countries to find common solutions to a series of 
issues, for the good of their peoples. And here I would 
like  to  call  on  all  those  in  this  Hall  that  have  not  yet 
recognized Kosovo to do so, and by so doing to make a 
straightforward contribution to strengthening stability, 
peace and cooperation in a region that last year became 
a significant success story, a region in which hopes and 
dreams for the future are prevailing over the fears and 
nightmares of the past. Full recognition of Kosovo by 
every nation in this Assembly will be good for Serbia 
as well.
Moreover,  last  year  I  made  the  first  visit  of  an 
Albanian Prime Minister to Belgrade in 68 years. And 
since the Western Balkans Summit, held in Vienna in 
August, our region has been successfully collaborating 
in  a  number  of  areas,  including  youth  exchanges 
promoted  by  Albania  and  Serbia  and  inspired  by  the 
model of youth exchanges between France and Germany 
after the Second World War. We are focusing on this in 
particular because it is crucial for our young people to 
be aware of what history has taught us: that it is better 
to celebrate our differences than to fight over them and 
to learn from our past than to live in it, no matter the 
place, no matter the language, no matter the colour and 
no matter the religion.
In  an  unprecedented  approach, 
the  United 
Nations  has  engaged  in  conversation  with  hundreds 
and  thousands  of  young  people.  In  developing  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  it  has  taken  into 
account  their  hopes  and  expectations.  As  we  affirm 
our  pledge  to  achieve  these  Goals,  let  us  focus  our 
attention  on  the  young.  Let  us  —  countries  large 
and  small  —  come  together  to  begin  the  process  of 
developing a global charter that puts the education of 
our young and our determination to give them a better 
future at its heart. We are going to introduce a reform in 
Albania that will include in the school curriculum such 
a  charter  of  values.  We  have  also  been  working  hard 
to  make  progress  on  important  reforms  in  a  number 
of  areas,  including  education,  public  administration, 
energy,  economic  development,  justice  and  the  fight 
against crime.
Albania is eager to be part of the global team that 
will meet this December in Paris to decide on measures 
to protect the environment in line with the objectives of 
sustainable development and the purposes to be served 
by  the  intended  nationally  determined  contributions. 
This unprecedented event will be effective if we act as 
a great team and all play their parts. Yet, in an era beset 
by  enormous  challenges  like  climate  change,  violent 
extremism,  poverty,  inequality,  corruption  and  illicit 
trafficking, first and foremost let us ensure the future by 
teaching young people the values of tolerance, respect 
20/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
and  understanding  no  matter  the  place,  the  language, 
the colour or the religion.
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Syrian Arab Republic.
I  was  an  artist  before  being  elected  to  political 
office.  Every  day  I  still  like  to  pick  up  a  pencil  or  a 
pen or a paintbrush, even for a few minutes, and draw, 
doodle or paint. All of us are trying to paint our own big 
picture in our different ways, to set out a clear vision 
and to work towards it.
If  the  world  were  a  painting,  today  it  would 
probably be more grey than black or white. There are 
few certainties. And many splashes of glaring and harsh 
colours would warn us of the many dangers and threats 
we  face.  But  here  in  this  place,  there  are  values  and 
principles that we can apply to all the challenges in the 
world, and we need them now more than ever. At a time 
of  tragic  events,  with  the  sounds  of  war  around  him, 
Winston  Churchill  noted:  “Words  are  the  only  things 
that last forever.” Let us all depict in words in our school 
curricula these values and principles of tolerance and 
respect  for  the  diversity  of  faiths,  identities,  cultures, 
histories and beliefs, thereby recognizing the common 
humanity that we all share.
Obviously, global principles and values of tolerance, 
written in black on the white paper of a global charter, 
cannot wipe out violent extremism, hatred, stereotypes, 
discrimination  and  the  scars  they  have  caused.  Yet 
these values, when they are put into words and taught in 
our schools, can bridge differences and inspire hearts 
and minds to take common action and usher in a better 
future for our world. The hearts and minds of our young 
people represent the best insurance for a better future. 
If we show them the right path, they will take it.
Let us also try to be a better team and demonstrate, 
first  and  foremost,  that  we  —  men  and  women, 
individuals and peoples — are joined together by our 
common  humanity  and  must  work  together  to  build  a 
common  and  sustainable  future  for  all,  no  matter  the 
place, no matter the language, no matter the colour and 
no matter the religion.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Albania  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Edi  Rama,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted from the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Walid Al-Moualem, Deputy 
Mr.  Al-Moualem  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Mogens 
Lykketoft  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at the seventieth session and to wish 
him success in leading the work of this session. I would 
also like to thank his predecessor for his presidency at 
the previous session.
I  greet  the  Assembly  of  this  great  international 
Organization, which was originally established, with all 
its agencies, in order for peace and security to prevail 
in  the  world.  I  come  from  a  country  where  security 
has been disrupted and peace has been disturbed — a 
country that has been experiencing a brutal war for more 
than  four  years.  I  greet  the  Assembly  from  a  land 
baptized  by  the  blood  of  its  people,  who  are  fighting 
terrorism  and  defending  their  fellow  citizens  against 
terrorism, while waiting for the United Nations to fulfil 
its  promises  and  implement  its  resolutions  aimed  at 
combating terrorism.
The  resolutions  adopted  by  the  Security  Council 
under Chapter VII are still just ink on paper, mentioned 
only  in  press  releases  and  media  statements,  while 
on  the  ground  the  countries  funding,  sponsoring  and 
supporting terrorism are still fuelling extremism in the 
region, still arming and training terrorists and sending 
them to Syria and are indifferent to and unconcerned 
about the implementation of those resolutions.
I ask the Assembly, on behalf of the Syrians who 
are resisting this scourge, how long will the powerful 
Member  States  continue  to  intimidate  other  Member 
States  committed  to  international  law  and  to  ignore 
States  that  disregard  Security  Council  resolutions? 
What  has  the  international  community  done  to  stop 
those  States  from  committing  criminal  acts  against 
the  Syrian  people?  Why  is  there  all  this  silence?  The 
international  community  watched  as  this  extremist 
ideology  spread  until  it  reached  Europe  and  struck 
there as it is striking the Middle East now. It watched 
while  sleeper  cells  were  awakened  and  bombings  and 
assassinations  re-emerged  in  the  West.  The  people  of 
those  countries  are  not  guilty,  yet  they  are  beginning 
to pay the price for some of their politicians’ support 
of terrorism.
Everyone here knows better than most that terrorism 
is an ideology that recognizes no boundaries, and that 
when this monster is on the move, it is not limited to 
15-29816
21/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
particular countries. The terrorism of the Islamic State 
in  Iraq  and  the  Sham  and  of  the  Al-Nusra  Front  and 
other  Al-Qaida-affiliated  terrorist  organizations  is 
killing the innocent, capturing women and bombarding 
civilians  with  mortar  shells.  This  terrorism  is  cutting 
off drinking water and destroying historic and cultural 
landmarks, including those on the World Heritage List, 
which form part of the heritage of all humankind. The 
most recent of such crimes was the destruction of the 
temples of Baal Shamin and Bel and the brutal killing 
of archaeologists.
Why do some countries support other countries that 
are accustomed to exporting their crises beyond their 
borders?  Why  do  they  support  them  while  knowing 
that  they  only  cause  destruction?  How  can  developed 
countries that hold elections and have parliaments align 
themselves with countries that do not have parliaments 
and do not recognize the rights of women, who represent 
half  of  society?  How  can  the  former  accept  such 
practices  as  sexual  jihad,  slaughter,  cutting  off  hands 
and  the  systematic  destruction  of  history,  monuments 
and culture?
In the light of that situation, I affirm that Syria will 
continue to fight terrorism in word and deed. The Syrian 
armed  forces  are  capable  of  cleansing  the  country  of 
terrorists, despite the sacrifices involved and the high 
prices they have already paid and are continuing to pay. 
Syrian people from all backgrounds have also paid with 
their lives and in every other way in terms of security, 
the economy and their livelihood.
Now is the time for honesty and truth. It is the duty 
of the international community to stop the flow to Syria 
of  terrorists,  who,  according  to  United  Nations  data, 
are  coming  from  100  countries  to  create  a  caliphate 
State.  That  State,  as  members  all  know,  will  not  be 
limited to Syria or Iraq. Those who wish to lead such 
a  caliphate  have  frequently  stated  that  their  goal  is  a 
State  that  stretches  from  Mecca  throughout  Europe, 
a State that, according to them, will restore the glory 
of  the  caliphate.  If  the  international  community  does 
not stop States from supporting terrorism and sending 
terrorists, the fire that has broken out in Syria, Iraq and 
Libya will continue to spread.
Syria has not stopped advocating political dialogue 
and practising what it preaches. Its earlier vision — that 
the fight against terrorism must take priority if progress 
is  to  be  made  on  other  tracks  —  has  proved  to  be 
correct.  The  Government  cannot 
implement  any 
democratic  political  measures  related  to  elections,  a 
constitution  or  the  like  while  terrorism  is  striking  at 
home and threatening innocent civilians in the country. 
How can it ask the Syrian people to head to the ballot 
boxes when they are not safe either in the streets or in 
their homes because of the missiles and mortar shells 
launched against them by terrorist groups supported by 
countries whose identities are well known?
Nevertheless,  we  were,  and  still  are,  believers  in 
political  dialogue  within  the  parameters  known  to 
all,  namely,  the  preservation  of  national  sovereignty, 
the  unity  of  Syria’s  territory  and  people,  and  the 
maintenance  of  State 
institutions,  which  may, 
nonetheless,  be  developed  and  improved.  Moreover, 
there  has  to  be  an  understanding  that  the  only  way 
to  achieve  a  political  solution  is  through  a  Syrian-led 
national dialogue without any foreign interference. On 
the basis of those conditions, Syria agreed to participate 
in a second Geneva conference on Syria and the first 
and second round of talks on Syria held in Moscow.
In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  announce  that 
Syria  agrees  to  participate  in  the  four  brainstorming 
committees of experts proposed by the Special Envoy 
Staffan  de  Mistura.  Mr.  De  Mistura  has  repeatedly 
confirmed that the role of these committees is mainly to 
exchange ideas and that they will conduct non-binding 
preliminary consultations whose agreed outputs can be 
used to prepare for the launching of the third Geneva 
conference on Syria.
Some  imagine  that  Syria’s  acceptance  of  the 
political  track  —  regardless  of  the  form  it  takes,  the 
initiative it is based on and the name it is given — stems 
from  what  they  term  the  weakness  of  Syria’s  army 
and people on the ground. To them I say that Syria is 
strong  and  continues  to  fight  terrorism,  and  that  the 
Syrian  army  and  the  Syrian  people  are  united  in  the 
face of terrorism. Let no one think that, after all Syria’s 
sacrifices and steadfastness over more than four years, 
its adversaries can obtain through political means what 
they could not win militarily or that they will achieve 
at the negotiating table what they failed to achieve on 
the  ground.  The  decision  of  the  Syrian  people  lies  in 
the hands of the Syrian people alone, and no one can 
deny them that right. I repeat: the decision of the Syrian 
people lies in their hands alone and no one can strip them 
of that right. The Syrian armed forces have astonished 
the world with their power, faith and persistence.
The important invitation of His Excellency President 
Vladimir Putin aimed at establishing an international/
regional  coalition  to  counter  terrorism  received  the 
22/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
attention  and  support  of  the  Syrian  Government. 
Terrorism cannot be fought only from the air, and all the 
previous operations to combat it have merely led to its 
spread and to further outbreaks. Air strikes are useless 
unless they are conducted in cooperation with the Syrian 
armed forces, which currently are alone in combating 
terrorism in Syria. Russian air strikes in Syria, which 
were  launched  at  the  request  of  and  in  coordination 
with the Syrian Government, are effectively supporting 
the Syrian efforts to combat terrorism.
the occupied Syrian Golan, in clear violation of relevant 
Security Council resolutions, in particular resolutions 
497 (1981) and 465 (1980). Furthermore, Syria confirms 
that  the  issue  of  Palestine  is  of  central  concern  to 
the  Syrian  people,  who  support  the  inalienable  and 
legitimate  rights  of  the  brotherly  Palestinian  people, 
in  particular  the  right  of  return,  the  right  to  self-
determination and the right to the establishment of an 
independent State on their own land, with Jerusalem as 
its capital.
The  so-called  Arab  Spring  was  a  spring  only  for 
Israel and its covert and known allies. Israel continues 
to  attack  Syria  while  the  world  watches.  Israel  is 
arming the terrorists and treating them in its hospitals. 
It  is  helping  them  with  its  intelligence  services  and 
supporting them, so that they will stand between it and 
the Syrian armed forces across the border. While those 
terrorists are being weakened, it is intervening directly 
through air strikes and artillery shelling, just as Turkey 
did and is still doing, whether in Aleppo or Idlib, and 
just as Saudi Arabia and Qatar, which are eager to shed 
Syrian blood by various means, are doing.
their  attacks  on  citizens 
The  continued  support  for  terrorists  and  the 
in  most 
escalation  of 
regions  and  cities  of  Syria  have  led  to  shortages  of 
basic  commodities  and  services  in  many  areas.  The 
inhuman  sanctions  imposed  by  the  European  Union 
and the United States of America have exacerbated the 
hardships of Syrian civilians.
My  Government  is  cooperating  with  the  United 
Nations  and  its  humanitarian  agencies  within  the 
framework  of  response  plans,  agreed  with  the  Syrian 
Government,  to  meet  the  basic  needs  of  our  citizens, 
especially  those  forced  by  terrorist  activities  to  flee 
their homes, many of whom have gone to neighbouring 
countries. Some of those countries have accommodated 
them  in  camps  for  weapons  training  or  in  places  that 
resemble detention and isolation facilities. I stress that 
the Syrian Government guarantees a safe return and a 
decent  life  for  all  citizens  who  are  willing  to  return. 
At the same time, Syria continues to make every effort 
to  deliver  aid  from  international  organizations  to  all 
Syrian citizens, without discrimination, wherever they 
may be.
The  Syrian  Arab  Republic  reiterates  its  support 
for the full restoration of the occupied Syrian Golan to 
the line of 4 June 1967. It also emphasizes its rejection 
of all actions taken by Israel, the occupying Power, to 
alter the geographic or demographic characteristics of 
At  the  end  of  2013,  Syria,  acting  on  a  proposal 
made  by  the  President  of  the  Russian  Federation, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Vladimir  Putin,  acceded  to  the 
Convention  on  the  Prohibition  of  the  Development, 
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons 
and on Their Destruction, with the aim of establishing 
in the Middle East a zone free of nuclear weapons and 
all  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  It  also  wanted  to 
demonstrate  to  the  whole  world  its  opposition  to  any 
use of chemical weapons. Syria fulfilled the obligations 
that resulted from its accession to the Convention and 
completed  its  commitments  despite  the  prevailing 
difficult  situation.  Thanks  to  Syria’s  cooperation,  the 
Joint Mission of the Organization for the Prohibition of 
Chemical Weapons and the United Nations was able to 
complete its task.
The Syrian Arab Republic would like to commend 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  for  its  steadfastness 
in  achieving  the  historic  agreement  that  fulfils  the 
aspirations  of  the  brotherly  people  of  Iran.  The 
agreement recognizes Iran’s right to use nuclear energy 
for peaceful purposes and lifts the sanctions imposed 
against Iran and the freeze on its assets. It also opens up 
international  relations  for  that  brotherly  country.  The 
agreement proves that a diligent and serious diplomatic 
approach can be successful in overcoming all obstacles 
and can lead to a peaceful and just solution to a difficult 
issue.
Syria  stresses  that  establishing  a  zone  free  of  all 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East  is 
unachievable  unless  Israel,  the  only  nuclear  Power  in 
the  region,  accedes  to  all  the  treaties  banning  such 
weapons.  Furthermore,  with  respect  to  its  nuclear 
facilities, Israel should conclude a safeguards agreement 
with  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency.  At  the 
same time, Syria emphasizes the right of all countries 
to acquire and develop nuclear technology for peaceful 
purposes.
15-29816
23/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
The imposition of unethical, unilateral and coercive 
measures by the United States and the European Union 
contradicts  the  rules  of  international  law  and  the 
principles of free trade. On that basis, we congratulate 
Cuba on reaching an agreement with the United States 
that lifts the blockade imposed on it. It remains for all 
unilateral, coercive measures imposed on Syria and on 
the people of other countries, such as the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela and Belarus, to be lifted.
Finally,  all  those  who  claim  to  care  about  the 
security and safety of the Syrian people should know 
that  if  we  are  to  achieve  victory  over  terrorism  and 
accomplish  economic  and  political  reforms,  it  is 
essential  that  the  counter-terrorism  resolutions  of  the 
Security  Council  be  fully  and  honestly  implemented. 
Only  then  can  we  begin  the  countdown  to  the  end  of 
war  in  Syria.  Only  then  will  we  arrive  at  the  final 
moments and can prepare to implement what has been 
agreed through political dialogue.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish): I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gunnar  Bragi  Sveinsson, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Iceland.
Mr.  Sveinsson  (Iceland):  The  world  has  changed 
enormously  since  the  establishment  of  the  United 
Nations 70 years ago. It has become a real world body 
with  193  Member  States.  The  United  Nations  has 
established  a  peacekeeping  structure,  overseen  the 
development of a strong human rights framework and 
set  up  key  agencies  for  development,  humanitarian 
issues  and  the  environment.  And  we  have  seen  the 
codification of international law under the auspices of 
the United Nations through such landmark treaties as 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. 
Over the same period, the United Nations has witnessed 
the agonies and tragedies of several generations around 
the world —tragedies brought on by poverty, conflict 
and natural disasters.
The  United  Nations  has  not  always  met  our 
expectations,  but  it  is  the  only  organization  through 
which  all  countries  can  work  to  solve  the  problems 
that  we  face  today  and  to  prevent  potential  problems 
in the future. This anniversary year provides a striking 
example of how the world’s nations, within the forum of 
the United Nations, can work together to chart a future 
for  our  peoples.  The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  the  Addis  Ababa 
Action  Agenda  are  achievements  of  which  we  should 
be  proud.  Iceland,  together  with  many  other  Member 
States,  worked  hard  to  achieve  the  balanced  result 
we  see  today.  We  are  particularly  pleased  with  the 
prominence  of  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment 
of women, which are key to sustainable development.
that 
the 
We  are  also  pleased 
sustainable 
management  of  natural  resources  is  central  to  both 
those  Agendas.  Eliminating  hunger  will  require  food 
security.  That  can  be  achieved  only  by  safeguarding 
and sustainably managing the only two sources of food 
we  have:  the  ocean  and  the  land.  Inefficient  fisheries 
management and the lack of infrastructure in that field 
cost our societies around $50 billion every year. Also, 
arable land the size of South Africa becomes degraded 
every year. We now have a blueprint for fixing that, and 
Iceland is committed to contributing to those efforts.
Another  highly  significant  aim  in  terms  of  the 
sustainable  management  of  natural  resources  is  Goal 
7,  on  affordable,  reliable,  sustainable  and  modern 
energy  for  all.  We  need  to  aim  for  the  elimination  of 
carbon-based fuels and, in the meantime, to channel the 
enormous amount of subsidies granted in the fossil-fuel 
sector — some $14.5 billion a day — towards renewable 
energy resources. That would be a good start, and here, 
those who count need to be counted.
Iceland  also  worked  hard  with  others  to  include 
in 
the  2030  Agenda 
that  deals  with 
non-communicable  diseases,  including  neurological 
disorders. 
language 
The  universal  nature  of  our  new,  common  Goals 
requires each of our States to contribute at the national, 
regional  and  global  levels.  None  of  us  can  succeed 
alone.  Iceland  is  committed  to  playing  its  part  in 
reaching those ambitious Goals.
Everywhere  we  are  witnessing 
the  drastic 
consequences  of  climate  change.  Last  month,  with 
participants from other Arctic countries, I took part in 
the Global Leadership Conference in Alaska, aimed at 
drawing attention to the impacts of climate change, which 
are particularly revealing in that region. Temperatures 
in  the  Arctic  are  increasing  at  more  than  twice  the 
average  global  rate.  The  region’s  fragile  ecosystem 
is  increasingly  at  risk,  and  Arctic  communities  are 
experiencing at first hand the challenges of dealing with 
a  rapidly  changing  climate.  The  consequences  are  far 
reaching, as shrinking glaciers in the North contribute 
to higher sea levels in the South.
There  is  still  time  to  turn  things  around.  The 
meeting on the United Nations Framework Convention 
24/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
on  Climate  Change  in  Paris  in  December  will  be  a 
chance  —  maybe  our  last  one  —  to  put  ourselves  on 
track towards a sustainable future and to take decisions 
based on best available science. Iceland is committed to 
an ambitious, long-term global climate agreement and 
intends,  working  collectively  with  other  countries  in 
Europe, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40 per 
cent in 2030.
We have been asked to focus on the road ahead for 
peace, security and human rights. When injustice is the 
everyday experience of a large part of the population, 
and when people have no voice, peace and security are 
at  risk.  And  without  peace  and  security,  we  will  not 
achieve  sustainable  development.  At  the  same  time, 
peace and security considerations cannot be used as a 
justification for violating human rights. 
The imposition of the death penalty should not be 
justified  by  the  pretext  of  needing  to  maintain  order 
and security. In that regard, the case of Ali Mohammed 
al-Nimr  in  Saudi  Arabia,  a  minor  when  his  alleged 
crimes  took  place,  is  particularly  worrying.  I  call  on 
Saudi Arabia to uphold its international obligations and 
commute his sentence.
One  characteristic  of  a  just  and  humane  society 
is  the  way  it  treats  its  minorities  and  the  most 
vulnerable.  Iceland  will  continue  to  work  with  others 
for non-discrimination, including on the basis of sexual 
orientation and gender identity. Human rights are for all 
men, all women, all girls and all boys, not just for some. 
“We the people” includes everyone.
Mr. Alrowaiei (Bahrain), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
Iceland  will  continue  to  be  a  champion  of  gender 
equality and the empowerment of women, as are many 
other  committed  Member  States.  At  the  beginning  of 
the year I co-hosted, with my colleague from Suriname, 
a successful Barbershop Conference here at the United 
Nations.  The  aim  was  to  get  others  to  join  in  getting 
men to be more active on the issue of gender equality. 
I  saw  it  also  as  support  for  the  He  For  She  campaign 
run by UN-Women. In the light of that success, Iceland 
intends  to  host  Barbershops  in  other  international 
organizations of which we are members.
The small size of our world is being set into sharp 
relief  by  the  ongoing  migrant  and  refugee  situation. 
Particularly  in  Europe,  well  before  the  Syrian  crisis, 
we  witnessed  the  desperate  efforts  of  men  and 
women  fleeing  their  own  countries,  often  with  tragic 
consequences, in search of a safe future for themselves 
and their children. The search for a better life is nothing 
new.  About  one  fifth  of  Iceland’s  population  left  our 
country  in  the  late  nineteenth  century  in  the  face  of 
extreme poverty and harsh weather conditions. For many 
Icelanders and millions of European who undertook the 
perilous  journey  to  North  America,  emigration  was  a 
matter of survival. Others were escaping injustice and 
political systems in which they had no voice.
The 
current 
crisis, 
refugee 
however, 
is 
unprecedented  in  recent  times.  The  term  migration 
hardly captures the severity of the situation. This is an 
exodus. We have all seen the figures. This year alone, 
some  500,000  refugees  and  migrants  have  crossed 
the  Mediterranean  to  Europe,  and  millions  have  fled 
to  neighbouring  countries.  Here,  I  would  like  to  pay 
tribute  to  Syria’s  neighbours,  who  have  quietly  and 
resolutely  given  shelter  to  the  great  majority  of  the 
refugees. The conflict in Syria, with its complex roots 
in  the  larger  conflicts  in  the  region,  has  produced  a 
scale of suffering that we all hoped never to see again. 
The long-term solution has to be to solve the conflict in 
Syria, and others like it, by political means.
The  Security  Council  bears 
the  primary 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  We  call  on  all  Security  Council 
members,  in  the  words  of  the  Charter,  to  “unite  their 
strength” to halt the bloodshed in Syria. The situation 
is already having consequences far beyond the region. 
Meanwhile,  it  is  the  humanitarian  duty  of  the  rest  of 
the  world  to  seek  ways  to  reduce  the  suffering  of  the 
refugees. These are extreme circumstances and call for 
extraordinary measures. 
The Icelandic Government has decided to allocate 
$16  million  to  deal  with  the  crisis  and  to  support  the 
vital work of front-line United Nations institutions, like 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Refugees, the World Food Programme and UNICEF, 
and  to  welcome  increased  numbers  of  refugees  to 
Iceland. This is, however, not a numbers game. There 
are different circumstances in different countries. But 
we  all  have  to  do  what  we  can.  These  are  defining 
moments in history.
Iceland  reiterates  its  strong  conviction  that  the 
only path to peace between Israel and Palestine is the 
two-State solution. Both sides need to commit fully to 
that  solution,  and  they  must  refrain  from  actions  that 
undermine  it.  Of  continuing  and  deep  concern  is  the 
humanitarian situation of the Palestinians, particularly 
15-29816
25/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
in  Gaza,  where  we  continue  to  call  for  the  lifting  of 
the blockade. Israel must abide by its obligations under 
international humanitarian law and human rights law. 
That  includes  an  immediate  halt  to  the  demolition  of 
Palestinian  homes  and  an  end  to  the  displacement  of 
Palestinians  from  their  land.  Terrorist  activity  on  the 
part of Palestinian elements is also totally unacceptable 
and can only undermine peace. We condemn all acts of 
violence against civilians. The safety and well-being of 
civilians on both sides must always be ensured. 
While  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  region 
gives  little  cause  for  optimism,  there  has  recently 
been  a  triumph  of  diplomacy  over  conflict.  I  would 
like  to  congratulate  all  the  parties  that  achieved  the 
breakthrough  agreement  on  the  Joint  Comprehensive 
Plan of Action on Iran’s nuclear programme. We hope 
to see that agreement contribute to greater stability in 
the  region.  We  should  be  careful  not  to  forget  other 
disputes, which, if not attended to, could flare up. Here, 
I am thinking of the Western Sahara.
On  this  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  foundation 
of  the  United  Nations,  we  should  recall  the  basic 
tenets of the Charter of the United Nations and related 
instruments. They include refraining from “the threat or 
use of force against the territorial integrity or political 
independence  of  any  State”.  It  is  a  matter  of  grave 
concern  when  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council  acts  to  undermine  the  territorial  integrity 
of  another  State.  The  rule  of  law  and  the  peaceful 
resolution of disputes are of existential importance for 
small States like mine.
The  United  Nations  is  not  perfect.  I  would  like, 
however, 
to  compliment  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  on  the  determination  with  which  he  has 
approached  the  Organization’s  shortcomings.  There 
is important work under way to revitalize the General 
Assembly. Iceland welcomes resolution 69/321 on that 
topic,  in  particular  with  regard  to  the  appointment  of 
the Secretary-General. After a succession of eight men 
in the position of Secretary-General, it is high time for 
qualified female candidates to be seriously considered 
for  that  most  important  international  position.  The 
same  applies  to  the  position  of  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly. The gender imbalance in high-level 
positions  must  be  addressed  if  we  wish  to  strengthen 
the credibility of the United Nations.
Iceland  has  long  supported  an  expansion  in  the 
permanent  and  non-permanent  seats  in  the  Security 
Council. It is a difficult process, but we cannot ignore 
the current increasingly indefensible situation, in which 
the Security Council represents the world as it was in 
1945. The danger is that its authority will gradually be 
undermined if it does not better reflect the world as it 
is.
Iceland is ready to look at all options for squaring 
the  circle.  In  the  meantime,  Iceland  has  stated  its 
support  for  the  initiative  by  France  and  Mexico  on 
regulating the use of the veto and for the code of conduct 
on Security Council actions against genocide and other 
crimes against humanity, drafted by the Accountability, 
Coherence and Transparency group of States.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Shaikh  Khalid  Bin  Ahmed 
Al-Khalifa,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the 
Kingdom of Bahrain.
Shaikh  Al-Khalifa  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
At the outset, it is my pleasure to warmly congratulate 
the President and his friendly country, the Kingdom of 
Denmark,  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventieth session. I wish him sustained 
success in directing the work of the General Assembly 
and  in  bolstering  the  role  that  the  Assembly  plays 
in  addressing  the  challenges  that  the  world  and  the 
international community as a whole face today. I also 
wish to express my appreciation to his predecessor, His 
Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at the sixty-ninth session, for all his efforts 
in  conducting  the  business  of  that  session  and  for  his 
concrete  initiatives  aimed  at  attaining  our  common 
goals.
I would also like to express my deep appreciation 
for the hard work of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, 
who  spares  no  effort  to  improve  the  effectiveness 
of  the  Organization  in  the  face  of  the  increasingly 
complex problems and crises in the world. I commend 
his  comprehensive  annual  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization (A/70/1) and the important steps that he 
has taken to address the numerous challenges on issues, 
including  sustainable  development,  climate  change, 
conflicts, humanitarian disasters and the refugee crisis, 
in addition to the deadly diseases, poverty and hunger 
in many developing countries.
At this juncture, I wish to totally submit myself to 
the will of Allah and express our heartfelt condolences 
to the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, His Majesty 
King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud of the brotherly 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and to the Muslim nation as 
26/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
a  whole,  following  the  tragic  stampede  that  occurred 
during  this  year’s  Hajj  a  few  days  ago.  We  highly 
value the great and historic role played by the sisterly 
Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  and  its  blessed  efforts  as 
guardian of that holy land and as servant of the guests 
of  the  sacred  shrine,  dedicating  all  means  necessary 
to  the  organization  of  the  Hajj  and  Umrah  and  their 
rites. Anyone who denies that fact ignores the scope of 
the responsibilities that the sisterly Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia  discharges  so  ably.  We  strongly  deplore  the 
false  allegations  made  by  President  Hassan  Rouhani 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran in his statement before 
the General Assembly (see A/70/PV.13) and reject any 
offense against or belittling of the tremendous efforts 
made over the years by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
A  few  days  ago,  the  General  Assembly  took 
an  important  step  for  the  welfare  of  humankind  by 
adopting the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution  70/1).  We  made  it  a  point  to  participate  in 
the  process,  which  is  consistent  with  our  full  support 
for  United  Nations  actions  aimed  at  furthering 
development goals and with the Kingdom of Bahrain’s 
record  of  achieving  remarkable  results  in  the  fields 
of  education,  health,  youth  empowerment,  poverty 
alleviation,  literacy  and  the  enhancement  of  human 
rights, as documented in international reports.
Bahrain,  as  a  pioneering  country,  has  been 
classified  in  the  United  Nations  Human  Development 
Index  as  being  among  the  countries  with  a  very  high 
level of human development. It has scored a 5 per cent 
economic growth rate over the past five years, thanks 
to  the  reform  process  instituted  by  His  Majesty  King 
Hamad bin Issa Al Khalifa of the Kingdom of Bahrain 
and his profound interest in meeting the aspirations of the 
people of Bahrain at the political, economic and social 
levels. We shall persevere in our development efforts by 
devising plans and programmes for the implementation 
of the new post-2015 sustainable development agenda. 
In  the  context  of  our  efforts  to  enhance  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  contained  in  the  new 
Agenda, my country will host, on 6 and 7 December, 
the  Ministerial  Conference  on  the  Implementation  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  in  the 
Arab States. It will be the first regional conference to 
be  held  anywhere  following  the  adoption  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The  world  testified  to  the  success  and  excellent 
record  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  in  the  field  of 
sustainable development when, here in New York, the 
International  Telecommunication  Union  conferred 
an  Information  and  Communications  Technologies  in 
Sustainable Development Award for 2015 on His Royal 
Highness  Prince  Khalifa  bin  Salman  Al  Khalifa,  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  thereby 
confirming the esteem in which the Kingdom and His 
Royal  Highness  are  held,  as  evidenced  by  a  series  of 
distinguished awards in the recent past.
Given  that  the  environment  is  one  of  the  three 
dimensions  of  sustainable  development,  we  want  to 
stress  the  importance  of  solidarity  and  joint  action 
to  address  the  major  challenges  of  climate  change. 
We  look  forward  to  the  twenty-first  session  of  the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held 
later this year in Paris. We hope that the session will 
result  in  a  binding  and  ambitious  agreement  to  deal 
with that dangerous phenomenon and its repercussions, 
especially on small island developing States.
The  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
coincides with the seventieth anniversary of the United 
Nations,  an  Organization  that  we  all  cherish,  whose 
indispensable role we all appreciate and which, for us, is 
indispensable. We shall relentlessly endeavour to attain 
its  goals,  especially  in  the  light  of  the  tragedies  and 
hardships faced by humankind at the end of the Second 
World War, with its huge toll in lives, the displacement 
of  peoples  and  the  obliteration  of  a  great  number  of 
cultural  monuments  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  All 
of that should make us firmly united, cooperative and 
transparent, so as to avoid the recurrence of such past 
tragedies and to lay strong foundations for international 
cooperation leading to safe future for humankind.
It  is  no  secret  that  the  Organization’s  noble 
humanitarian  goals  have  not  been  fully  attained,  yet 
we still maintain the hope of achieving them, thereby 
closing  a  painful  and  cruel  chapter  and  inaugurating 
a  new  era  without  wars.  Our  region  has  had  its  share 
of  wars —  war  after  war,  albeit  of  various  types  and 
objectives  —  and  all  were  destructive.  We  have  seen 
confrontations with occupiers. We have seen opposition 
to  foreign  interference  that  has  sought  to  impose 
hegemony, undermine national sovereignty and exploit 
extremist  groups  and  organizations  as  well  as  those 
financing  them  in  order  to  jeopardize  any  national 
gains, destroy cultural heritage and obliterate national 
and regional midentities.
Taking on those challenges is not easy, nor is the 
way  carpeted  with  flowers.  Rather,  it  is  a  long  and 
15-29816
27/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
arduous road, requiring uninterrupted work, persistent 
efforts and collective confrontation with the difficulties 
that  need  to  be  overcome.  Paramount  among  them  is 
the  disregard  by  some  –  Iran,  for  example  —  of  the 
principles  of  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs 
of  other  States  and  of  good-neighbourliness.  There  is 
also the exploitation of extremist groups, the provision 
of  safe  havens  to  fugitives,  the  opening  of  training 
camps for terrorist groups and the smuggling of arms 
and  explosives.  My  country  has  experienced  that 
directly. Bahraini citizens and expatriates, the security 
personnel protecting them, and the nation at large have 
been the targets of murder and other criminal acts that 
have  claimed  the  lives  of  16  security  personnel  and 
injured some 3,000 people.
Those  dangerous  criminal  acts  go  even  further.
Barely  two  days  ago,  the  security  authorities  in  the 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain  discovered  a  cache  of  locally 
made bombs in the heart of a densely populated area. 
The cache included some 1.5 tons of highly explosive 
material destined for use in the manufacturing of such 
potent explosives as C4, RDX and TNT, together with 
other  chemical  substances  and  a  number  of  explosive 
devices  ready  for  use,  automatic  weapons  and  guns, 
hand grenades, ammunition and wireless equipment.
For  that  reason,  I  would  like  to  state  that  the 
Kingdom of Bahrain and a number of sisterly countries 
in  the  region  have  attempted,  through  various  ways 
and  means,  to  invite  Iran  to  seek  normal  neighbourly 
relations  based  on  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and 
independence of nations and non-interference in their 
internal  affairs.  The  security  and  stability  of  a  State 
cannot  be  detrimental  to  those  of  another  State.  Iran 
would be better advised not to squander the resources 
of  its  people  on  foreign  adventures  but  rather  to  use 
those  resources  to  achieve  development  and  progress 
and build bridges with its neighbours, so that all may 
live together in peace. Iran has responded in a negative 
manner, however, and we were left with no choice but 
to recall the Kingdom’s Ambassador to Iran and declare 
the chargé d’affaires of the Iranian Embassy a persona 
non  grata,  as  part  of  the  measures  we  have  taken  to 
protect our people and interests.
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  and  its  sister  countries 
of  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  (GCC)  have  not 
hesitated to support Yemen in response to a request by 
His Excellency Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  that  we  help  the 
brotherly people of Yemen, who have been confronted 
with  rebel  groups  that  benefit  from  Iranian  support. 
Those  groups  failed  to  live  up  to  their  commitments 
and took over the institutions of the Yemeni State. Our 
aim  was  to  curb  the  deterioration  in  the  security  and 
humanitarian situation there. The position taken by the 
GCC in support of Yemen is a matter of principle and a 
long-standing position arising from our conviction that 
Yemen’s  security  and  stability  constitute  an  integral 
part, not only of the security of the Arabian peninsula 
but also of the entire region at large.
That  has  inevitably  led  to  military  confrontation, 
as  we  had  no  other  choice  available  to  us.  All  roads 
were blocked by the obstinacy of the rebel groups and 
their  belligerent  designs  with  regard  to  the  people  of 
Yemen and the region. To paraphrase my brother, the 
late  Prince  Saud  Al  Faisal,  we  are  not  warmongers, 
but when the war drums are beaten, we will be ready. I 
say that to show that the GCC countries are, and have 
always been, advocates of peace, not war.
We  are  steadfast  in  our  efforts  to  fulfil  the 
aspirations of the Yemeni people, and we shall remain 
faithful  to  our  position  until  those  who  have  taken 
up  arms  have  laid  them  down,  until  those  who  have 
overthrown the legitimate Government have abandoned 
their  greed  and  put  an  end  to  the  occupation  of  the 
State  institutions,  and  until  those  who  have  broken 
the  2014  peace  agreement  have  come  back  to  their 
senses.  Only  then  can  the  situation  be  conducive  to 
bringing together all the factions of the Yemeni people 
through a constructive national dialogue based on the 
GCC  Initiative  and  its  implementation  mechanism, 
the  outcome  of  the  comprehensive  national  dialogue 
and  the  Riyadh  conference  and  the  unconditional 
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution  2216 
(2015), which provides the basis for a settlement of the 
Yemeni crisis.
We  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  in 
that  respect.  While  we  appreciate  the  humanitarian 
efforts of the United Nations in favour of Yemen and 
its people and the remarkable role played by the King 
Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Centre in Yemen 
in  conjunction  with  assistance  provided  by  the  GCC 
and other friendly countries, we urge the international 
community to intensify its assistance and alleviate the 
suffering of the Yemeni people.
We regret that many States have become a breeding 
ground  for  terrorist  groups  and  organizations,  which 
have expanded under the cover of various sectarian and 
religious affiliations with the sole purpose of advancing 
28/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
their  own  agendas  aimed  at  controlling  nations  and 
obliterating the will of peoples. The Syrian experience 
is  an  abiding  example.  That  country  has  become  an 
arena  for  confrontation  among  terrorist  organizations 
such  as  Daesh,  Hizbullah  and  others,  which  has  led, 
inter alia, to the destruction of ancient cultural sites in 
the country.
As Syria goes down this treacherous and slippery 
slope, we call for an end to the situation and the return 
of that sisterly country to its previous condition of unity, 
harmony,  security  and  stability.  To  that  end,  foreign 
military  intervention  must  cease,  and  a  unanimously 
accepted political settlement, consistent with the final 
communiqué of the Action Group for Syria (A/66/865, 
annex), must be reached.
Reference 
to  Syria  automatically  draws  our 
attention to a related humanitarian crisis that requires 
all Member States to take concrete and tangible action 
to  address  it.  I  speak  now  of  the  crisis  of  the  Syrian 
refugees and displaced persons. It represents the worst 
ramification of the current situation in Syria and is a 
major  humanitarian  disaster,  unprecedented  since  the 
Second World War.
The  GCC  member  States  have  not  remained  idle 
in  the  face  of  that  tragic  situation.  They  have  taken 
comprehensive  and  practical  humanitarian  action  by 
hosting  around  3  million  Syrian  brothers  and  sisters 
and granting them permits to stay, with all the attendant 
rights, such as free education, health care, the right to 
employment  and  an  acceptable  standard  of  living.  In 
that respect, we also appreciate the major contribution 
of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, which is providing 
Syrians with care and opportunities for a decent life. We 
also call for concerted efforts to support Jordan and to 
share the great burden that it has taken up. I should also 
mention the considerable efforts of Egypt, Lebanon and 
Turkey in bearing that humanitarian burden.
With  regard  to  the  sisterly  country  of  Iraq,  we 
hope  that  the  great  efforts  of  Prime  Minister  Haider 
Al  Abadi  to  unite  the  Iraqi  people  and  overcome  the 
challenges  facing  his  country  at  this  critical  juncture 
will be crowned with success and that stability, security 
and peace will be restored. We call for the protection 
of  Iraq’s 
to  foreign 
interventions, especially by Iran, and the preservation 
of  Iraq’s  stability.  We  call  for  an  all-out  war  against 
terrorist groups such as Daesh and other armed militias 
that have found in Iraq favourable conditions for their 
activities.
integrity,  an  end 
territorial 
Libya  is  not  immune  to  the  threats  posed  by 
international  terrorist  groups,  and  the  situation  there 
has deteriorated, as we all know. The only way out is for 
all of the parties to the Libyan crisis to commit to giving 
precedence to the highest interest of the nation in order 
to restore its security, stability and unity. We welcome 
the text for the framework to create a Government of 
National Accord so as to put an end to the fighting and 
bloodshed in this sisterly country.
We reiterate the consistent position of the Kingdom 
of  Bahrain,  which  rejects  terrorism  in  all  its  forms, 
regardless  of  its  motivations  or  the  entity  backing  or 
financing it. Terrorist acts by Daesh are unprecedented 
and constitute crimes against humanity. Such terrorism 
will stop only if a collective effort is made at all levels 
to  destroy  its  sources  of  financing.  That  is  consistent 
with our commitment to combating that threat, which 
jeopardizes the security and safety of our countries, as 
well as our shared humanity. 
The Kingdom of Bahrain, in cooperation with the 
countries of the region and with the support of our allies, 
will work to defeat that threat. To that end, we have ben 
participating  in  the  efforts  of  the  Global  Coalition  to 
Counter  Daesh,  militarily,  logistically,  intellectually 
and in the field of communications.
In that context, in November last year, the Kingdom 
of Bahrain hosted the Manama Meeting on Combating 
the  Financing  of  Terrorism.  This  November  we  will 
host  a  conference  on  the  protection  of  civil  society 
institutions  against  the  risk  of  being  exploited  as 
channels for funds intended for terrorists. In the near 
future, we will also organize a conference on protection 
against  improvised  explosive  devices,  which  are  the 
favourite and most frequently used weapons of terrorist 
groups all over the world.
What  is  taking  place  today  in  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif 
offends the feelings of all Muslims around the world, as 
they witness the violations committed by the occupying 
Israeli authorities and Israeli extremist groups against 
the  sanctity  of  the  holy  Al-Aqsa  Mosque  Compound. 
Such illegal and inhuman acts run the risk of wrecking 
any chance for peace. Instead they create an atmosphere 
filled  with  more  tension,  violence,  extremism  and 
hatred,  all  of  which  do  not  contribute  to  building  the 
human  relations  and  mutual  respect  that  all  religions 
advocate. 
Nor  do  such  acts  contribute  to  building  peaceful 
societies  that  preserve  national  dignity  and  a  culture 
15-29816
29/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
of  peaceful  coexistence.  To  quote  Egyptian  President 
Anwar Sadat’s iconic phrase before the Israeli Knesset, 
“no one can build his happiness at the expense of the 
misery of others”.
Attaining  that  happiness  will  be  possible  only 
when the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people are 
granted  through  the  establishment  of  an  independent 
Palestinian  State,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
within  the  borders  of  4  June  1967.  Occupation, 
coercive practices and the construction and expansion 
of  settlements  should  come  to  an  end.  The  right  of 
Palestinians  to  return  to  their  towns  and  villages, 
consistent  with  the  relevant  international  resolutions, 
the  two-State  solution  and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative, 
must be acknowledged. 
In  that  connection,  we  welcome  the  raising  of 
the  Palestinian  flag  at  United  Nations  Headquarters 
as  a  first  step  of  great  symbolic  value,  underscoring 
international  support  for  the  right  of  the  Palestinian 
State to full membership in the United Nations, which 
we look forward to in the near future.
We want to reaffirm the importance of the agreement 
between Iran and the P5+1 group on the Iranian nuclear 
programme. We hope that it will contribute to security 
and  stability  in  the  region.  However,  we  believe  that 
the agreement does not eliminate all sources of tension 
resulting from Iran’s attitudes towards the countries of 
the region. It covers some future issues, but it does not 
touch on the real problems that we face today, since Iran 
will attempt to destabilize the region and its security by 
providing support to terrorist organizations, including 
by smuggling weapons and explosives, as I mentioned 
earlier  in  detail.  Iran  is  also  openly  interfering  in 
the  internal  affairs  of  our  States.  It  has  occupied  the 
three  islands  belonging  to  the  United  Arab  Emirates, 
namely, Abu Musa and the Greater and Lesser Tunbs, 
and  refuses  to  end  that  occupation  either  through 
direct  negotiations  or  by  accepting  arbitration  by  the 
International Court of Justice..
In  that  context,  we  reaffirm  the  importance  of  a 
Middle  East  nuclear-free-zone,  including  the  Arabian 
Gulf region, as well as the need for Israel to adhere to 
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons 
and to place its nuclear facilities under comprehensive 
safeguards if tge International Atomic Energy Agency. 
I  regret  that  no  agreement  was  reached  at  the  2015 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, recently held in 
New York .
The Kingdom of Bahrain reiterates its full support 
for the Arab Republic of Egypt and the tireless efforts of 
President Abdel Fattah Al Sisi to achieve development, 
progress  and  prosperity  for  the  Egyptian  people, 
consolidate  the  foundations  of  a  modern  State  and 
combat terrorism. The building of a new Suez Canal and 
the other major projects decided at the Sharm El-Sheikh 
Conference  to  support  the  Egyptian  economy  clearly 
demonstrate  the  determination  to  enhance  genuine 
development so that Egypt, the land of civilization, will 
remain a source of security and prosperity for all and 
a pillar of the Arab world. In that way, it can continue 
playing its leading role in our common Arab endeavours 
to defend our cause and our national security.
Similarly,  we  would  like  to  put  on  record  our 
the 
consistent  and  principled  position  vis-à-vis 
Moroccan Sahara question. We express our support for 
the territorial integrity of Morocco and the efforts of the 
United Nations to find a negotiated political settlement 
accepted  by  all  parties  on  the  basis  of  the  Moroccan 
initiative on self-government.
Confronted  with  such  daunting  challenges  to  our 
region’s  long-term  security  and  stability,  we  need 
more than ever to reflect deeply and seriously on how 
to  create  a  mechanism  for  collective  action  that  can 
bring all Middle Eastern States together with a view to 
consolidating security and stability. We need to discuss 
among  ourselves,  with  clarity  and  transparency,  all 
those  issues  and  reach  solutions  to  build  confidence 
through  practical  policies  and  steady  progress.  We 
would  then  be  able  to  preserve  what  we  have  already 
achieved  for  our  peoples  and  countries  in  terms  of 
construction,  comprehensive  development  and  mutual 
understanding  and  cooperation.  Such  a  mechanism 
would  preserve  the  sovereignty  of  our  countries  and 
their  territorial  integrity  and  ensure  non-interference 
in their internal affairs. 
Better relations would also ensue, based on mutual 
respect for the principles of good-neighbourliness and 
the non-use or threat of use of force. We would be able 
to  build  on  the  common  characteristics  that  unite  us, 
including  our  religious  and  cultural  heritage  and  our 
diversity.  That  would  allow  for  better  management  of 
our collective resources so as to achieve food and water 
security, build a genuine and lasting peace for all and 
achieve  economic  and  development  progress  in  the 
context of peaceful coexistence.
I  want  to  conclude  by  stating  that  the  many 
achievements of the Kingdom of Bahrain confirm our 
30/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
confidence in our approach and our persistence in our 
policy  of  perpetual  improvement  and  comprehensive 
growth,  while  enhancing  our  country’s  security  and 
preserving our identity. We defend ourselves with one 
hand and work to build a modern State with the other, 
a State based on justice, the rule of law and plurality, 
and  popular  participation  in  the  decision-making 
process,  without  exclusion  or  discrimination.  Our 
foreign relations are wide open and are built on strong 
foundations and principles, most notably respect for the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  efforts  at  the  regional 
and  international  levels,  and  cooperation  with  our 
brothers aimed at achieving a peaceful life and a lasting 
and comprehensive peace for all.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call on Her Excellency Ms. Aurelia Frick, Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs,  Minister  for  Education  and  Minister 
for Cultural Affairs of the Principality of Liechtenstein.
Ms.  Frick  (Liechtenstein):  It  is  an  honour  to  be 
back  in  the  Assembly,  especially  as  Liechtenstein 
is  celebrating  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  its 
membership  in  the  United  Nations.  We  may  not  have 
been  among  the  earliest  countries  to  join  the  United 
Nations, but we certainly were and remain among those 
who did so with full conviction. Today, United Nations 
membership  is  a  key  platform  for  our  Government’s 
foreign  policy.  The  Organization  enjoys  strong 
approval  among  our  population,  two  thirds  of  which 
have expressed favourable views in recent polls.
For  people  to  approve  of  the  United  Nations  is 
important,  of  course.  After  all,  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  is  explicitly  written  on  behalf  of  the 
peoples  of  the  world.  But  we  must  ask:  what  about 
people who are more directly affected by its work than 
the  population  of  Liechtenstein?  In  celebrating  the 
seventieth anniversary of the United Nations, we must 
ask  ourselves  what  would  approval  ratings  be  among 
the people of Syria, Haiti, the Central African Republic, 
Ukraine or Sri Lanka. Are we achieving the purposes 
of the Charter that we fought so hard for seventy years 
ago in San Francisco?
There  is  much  to  be  proud  of  even  when  just 
looking  back  at  the  recent  past.  The  United  Nations-
led  response  to  the  Ebola  crisis  in  West  Africa  saved 
thousands  of  lives,  and  it  has  prepared  us  to  act  with 
even  more  resolve  in  the  future.  The  Millennium 
Development Goals have had a catalytic effect on our 
development  efforts  and  paved  the  way  for  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), 
a visionary blueprint for sustainable development. The 
United Nations continues to provide emergency relief, 
education,  health  care  and  other  services  to  millions 
of  people  around  the  globe.  The  United  Nations  is 
the  strongest  symbol  for  human  rights,  the  rule  of 
law,  gender  equality  and  the  protection  of  vulnerable 
populations.
People  around  the  world  place  their  faith  in 
the  Organization,  but  all  too  often,  they  have  been 
disappointed. It is true that the United Nations has a huge 
task. Mistakes are unavoidable, and at times, perhaps, 
the same can even be said of failure. Nonetheless, there 
can be no justification when the Organization fails at 
the  very  core  of  its  mission.  There  is  no  justification 
when  the  very  people  who  should  be  protecting 
civilians and children exploit them instead in the most 
abusive way possible. There is no justification for the 
failure of diplomacy in Syria, with civilians suffering 
from  unspeakable  violence  and  terrorist  extremism 
taking  over  an  entire  region.  We  should  not  look  for 
justifications. We need to look for solutions. We need 
to do better.
The  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  is  at  the 
heart  of  the  Charter.  Therefore,  in  the  eyes  of  the 
world, the work of the Security Council has a decisive 
effect on whether the Organization as a whole is seen 
s a success or a failure. Like many others, we want the 
Security  Council  to  act  with  resolve  and  be  effective 
and be guided by a common sense of purpose. That is 
primarily the task of the Council members themselves. 
Others, however, must contribute, as well. The Council 
works on our behalf, and we are bound to carry out its 
decisions.  In  other  words,  we  are  all  in  this  together, 
both in times of success and in times of failure.
Some  of  the  Council’s  most  damaging  failures 
have occurred in the face of atrocity crimes. Rwanda, 
Srebrenica  and  now  Syria  sadly  stand  out  in  that 
respect. When we celebrate the seventieth anniversary 
of the Organization later in October, we should clearly 
acknowledge the damage done, and we should commit 
ourselves,  therefore,  to  taking  decisive  action  in  the 
future  when  it  is  needed.  To  that  end,  Liechtenstein 
has led the discussion in the Accountability, Coherence 
and Transparency group, which has resulted in a Code 
of  Conduct  regarding  Security  Council  action  against 
genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes. That 
Code of Conduct is a voluntary political commitment 
that any State can enter into.
15-29816
31/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
The pledge is twofold. First, it is aimed at supporting 
timely and decisive action in the Security Council and 
at ending or preventing mass atrocity crimes — in other 
words,  at  being  constructive.  Secondly,  it  is  aimed  at 
not opposing credible draft resolutions put forward for 
the purpose of preventing such crimes — that is, at not 
being obstructive. Fifty-nine States have already made 
that commitment. I hope that many more will be on the 
list when we launch the Code of Conduct on 23 October, 
and I hope that that will give impetus to efforts aimed 
at finding agreement among the permanent members, 
who have the right of veto, in pursuit of the objective of 
preventing mass atrocity crimes.
Preventing mass atrocities is so important because 
their effects are irreversible. They have no remedy. How 
can one possibly make compensation for the slaughter 
of civilians, the mass rape of women or the brutalizing 
of children? Our primary objective must be to prevent 
those  crimes  from  happening.  That  is  a  complex  and 
long-term task, involving all parts of the United Nations 
system,  but  when  volatile  situations  move  closer  to 
escalation,  preventive  diplomacy  remains  one  of  the 
most powerful tools at our disposal. Clearly, however, 
we need to make much stronger investments in it, both 
politically and financially.
As we consider how we can sharpen our tools for 
conflict  prevention  and  resolution,  one  conclusion  is 
already clear. We must get better at including women 
and their perspectives in those processes. The fifteenth 
anniversary  of  the  women  and  peace  and  security 
agenda,  laid  out  in  Security  Council  resolution  1325 
(2000),  therefore  marks  a  bittersweet  moment.  That 
agenda  sets  out  a  comprehensive  vision  for  how  to 
include women in peaceful solutions and how to protect 
them from the effects of armed conflict. It is in itself 
a remarkable achievement. Yet, we have, by and large, 
been unable to fulfil the promise made fifteen years ago. 
Girls born into a post-resolution 1325 (2000) world still 
suffer from abuse, sexual violence, forced recruitment 
and  displacement.  Let  us  take  decisive  steps  forward 
when we meet later this month in the Security Council.
These  are  turbulent  times,  not  just  for  the  United 
Nations  but  also  for  an  institution  closely  affiliated 
with  it,  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC). 
As  the  first  treaty-based  international  court  with 
jurisdiction over the worst crimes under international 
law,  it  is  shouldering  a  massive  responsibility.  In  just 
over  ten  years,  the  Court  has  established  itself  as  the 
world’s  central  player  in  the  fight  against  impunity. 
It  is  an  independent  judicial  institution  and  therefore 
does not engage in political calculations. Quite often, 
however, it finds itself forced to navigate a politically 
charged environment. We must, therefore, step up our 
support  for  the  Court.  More  States  should  join  the 
family of the current 123 parties to the Rome Statute. 
Consistent  support  should  come  from  those  who  can, 
should  or  must  cooperate  with  the  Court,  including 
the Security Council. We must also intensify and give 
greater assistance to national efforts to investigate and 
prosecute.
to 
thanks 
The link between the ICC and the United Nations 
will  soon  get  stronger, 
the  Kampala 
Amendments  on  the  crime  of  aggression,  which  will 
enable the ICC to help enforce a core provision of the 
Charter of the United Nations, namely, the prohibition 
against the use of force. The most serious forms of the 
illegal  use  of  force  are  no  longer  merely  breaches  of 
the  Charter;  they  also  entail  criminal  accountability 
for those responsible for such acts. We are only a little 
over a year’s time and a handful of ratifications away 
from activating the Court’s jurisdiction over that crime. 
We look forward to more States ratifying the Kampala 
consensus. It will be a big step, both for international 
criminal justice and for the United Nations.
Finally, 
thoughts  on 
let  me  offer  some 
the 
unprecedented  levels  of  the  displacement  of  persons 
in the world, which is quickly turning into one of the 
biggest  challenges  for  the  United  Nations.  Countries 
close  to  the  conflicts  have  been  grappling  with  that 
issue  for  quite  some  time  already.  More  recently, 
Europe has been impacted in ways that test the fabric 
of  our  region.  Even  though  we  are  not  a  member  of 
the  European  Union,  Liechtenstein  feels  strongly  that 
Europe  is  not  just  a  continent.  It  is  also  a  symbol  of 
common  values  and  a  promise  to  address  challenges 
together,  irrespective  of  our  models  of  political  and 
economic integration. We therefore want to contribute 
to a sustainable solution based on international law and 
human rights. 
Regional  approaches  will  remain  key  to  such 
solutions.  But  migration  and  refugee  flows  are  not 
simply a regional phenomenon, and by far the largest 
share  of  people  who  have  left  their  homes  are  still  in 
developing  countries.  A  truly  global  discussion  is 
therefore  required,  as  well.  The  World  Humanitarian 
Summit  next  year  seems  to  offer  a  good  and  timely 
platform.
32/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
The President took the Chair.
We are confronting daunting challenges, yet to lose 
hope  is  not  an  option.  Therefore,  in  closing,  I  would 
like to share with you the perspective of a man whom 
I greatly admire and who has extensively collaborated 
with  Liechtenstein.  In  1944,  he  landed  on  the  shores 
of  Normandy,  he  participated  in  the  liberation  of  the 
concentration  camps,  and  he  led  the  prosecution  in 
history’s biggest murder cases at the Nuremberg trials. 
He is now 95 years old and continues to fight for law, not 
war, as he has done all his life. His name is Benjamin 
Ferencz, and he has three pieces of advice for all of us: 
“Never give up. Never give up. Never give up.”
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Wilfred Elrington, Attorney General and Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Belize.
Mr.  Elrington  (Belize):  Allow  me  at  the  outset 
to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  assumption  of  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session and to assure you of Belize’s steadfast support 
and  cooperation.  I  deem  it  both  fortuitous  and  fitting 
that  I  am  accorded  the  privilege  of  addressing  the 
Assembly on the occasion of the International Day of 
Non-Violence.
The theme of this session, “The United Nations at 
70: the road ahead to peace, security and human rights”, 
provokes  the  question  of  whether  the  United  Nations, 
as presently constituted, is up to the task of providing 
the  world  community  with  the  protection  that  it  will 
so genuinely need in the coming years and expects to 
obtain. While the events that gave rise to the founding 
of  the  United  Nations  seventy  years  ago  are  in  many 
respects similar to some of the events we see today, it 
can legitimately be argued that the world of 1945 was 
neither  confronted  with,  nor  could  it  contemplate  a 
phenomenon as potentially intractable and catastrophic 
as  climate  change.  Does  it  therefore  follow  that  the 
United Nations is not imbued with the resilience to deal 
satisfactorily or adequately with that most ominous and 
dreaded phenomenon?
Thanks  to  the  information  age  and  the  attendant 
communication  revolution, 
the  ubiquitous  media, 
both  mass  and  social,  incessantly  publish  disquieting 
global  events  widely  and  instantaneously.  The  events 
accentuated by the media are, for the most part, those 
that  speak  to  the  multifarious  threats,  misfortunes 
and  disasters  being  experienced  on  a  daily  basis  by 
humankind.  Those  threats  have  their  roots  in  human-
made causes. The accelerated phenomenon of climate 
change — giving rise to the inexorable melting of the 
glaciers,  the  rising  and  warming  of  the  oceans  and 
seas,  the  spawning  of  super  typhoons,  hurricanes, 
tornadoes and floods, droughts, desertification, and the 
indiscriminate  igniting  of  conflagrations  of  gigantic 
proportions - is increasingly attributed to anthropogenic 
interference with the climate system.
The  senseless  violence  and  excesses  of  terrorists, 
religious extremists, rogue soldiers, police and security 
personnel,  human  and  drug  traffickers,  and  regimes 
that brutally, mercilessly and wantonly slaughter their 
own  citizens  and  citizens  of  other  countries  who  in 
their view pose a clear and present danger to them or to 
their vital interests — all these constitute human-made 
threats to the world’s population.
Of  all  those  threats,  however,  the  one  that  poses 
the  greatest  existential  threat  to  our  entire  planet  and 
all  living  things  thereon  is  climate  change.  Eminent 
scientists  opine  and  predict  that  the  damage  that  will 
be  done  to  the  world’s  marine  life  and  ecosystems 
caused by, for example, melting glaciers and rising sea 
temperatures  alone  are  incalculable  and  irremediable. 
They  predict  that  there  will  be  a  similar  impact  on 
the world’s flora and fauna and terrestrial ecosystems 
indiscriminate  deforestation 
from 
and  desertification.  One  obvious 
consequence, 
among  others,  of  such  occurrences  could  be  a  severe 
curtailment  in  the  world’s  vital  food  supply  and  the 
advent of the spectre of massive starvation worldwide. 
Such occurrences would unquestionably have a negative 
impact on all of humanity, for we all inhabit the same 
planet  and  share  the  same  core  needs,  adequate  food 
supply being only one of them.
large-scale  and 
Even  as  the  United  Nations  endeavours  to  deal 
with  the  dire  consequences  of  climate  change,  it  still 
must  dutifully  serve  the  aspirations  of  our  peoples 
to  enhance  their  economic  and  social  development. 
Although globally we can claim some success in poverty 
eradication,  the  current  unprecedented,  desperate  and 
perilous flight of hundreds of thousands of people from 
the  perennially  impoverished  South  to  more  affluent 
regions is irrefutable evidence of the most urgent need 
to do more for the poor and the powerless.
It  is  axiomatic  that  in  times  of  deep  personal 
crisis,  such  as  when  someone  is  diagnosed  with  a 
terminal  illness,  one  does  not  stop  to  count  the  cost 
of  finding  a  cure.  On  the  contrary,  strenuous  efforts 
are immediately initiated in search of one, even if that 
15-29816
33/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
entails the exhaustion of one’s life savings. Given the 
clear  and  present  existential  threat  posed  by  climate 
change, it is imperative that that threat be treated with 
no  less  urgency  and  gravity  than  that  with  which  a 
diagnosis of a terminal illness is treated. And we must 
do  so  in  tandem  with  our  ongoing  quests  to  vest  our 
people  with  hope,  opportunities  and  a  chance  for  the 
future that they deserve.
To that end, our world community must be prepared 
to  deploy  whatever  resources  that  may  be  required 
without  counting  the  costs.  It  would  be  most  unwise 
for the wealthy nations — whose historic responsibility 
it is to furnish those necessary resources without this 
proof  —  to  regard  contributions  made  to  meet  these 
challenges  as  simply  an  exercise  in  philanthropy  or 
altruism. Nothing could be further from the truth. Such 
contributions  are  vital  investments  in  the  survival  of 
planet Earth and of all living things therein.
Some countries are evidently in greater and more 
immediate danger than others from the effects of climate 
change at this time. What is happening in the Bahamas 
as  we  speak  and  what  happened  in  Dominica  and  in 
still earlier in Vanuatu are constant and incontestable 
reminders of the particular vulnerability of small island 
developing States (SIDS) and low-lying coastal States, 
like my own country, Belize. My Government expresses 
its deep solidarity with our fellow SIDS and assures the 
Assembly of our fullest support for them. Today, they 
are  on  the  front  lines;  tomorrow  it  will  be  us.  For  no 
country will escape the devastating impacts of climate 
change, which does not defer to size, borders or wealth, 
or lack thereof.
The  lessons  of  history  are  salutary.  The  tragic 
sinking of the mighty Titanic reminds us that whereas 
those  passengers  berthed  in  the  lower  decks  were 
the first to perish as that giant ship made its perilous 
descent toward the dark depths of the Atlantic on that 
fateful day of 10 April 1912, ultimately all passengers 
on that ill-fated ship who had not been rescued in life 
rafts  perished  by  drowning,  including  those  berthed 
on  the  top-most  deck.  We  cannot  afford  to  forget  for 
one  moment  that  all  of  us  human  beings  are  merely 
passengers  on  planet  Earth,  sailing  ceaselessly  in  the 
celestial firmament.
Belize  is  ever  mindful  that  our  community  of 
nations,  not  unlike  the  proverbial  chain  that  is  only 
as  strong  as  its  weakest  link,  is  only  as  strong  as  the 
weakest of its members. Small and weak though they 
may be, nations like my own form an integral part of 
humankind’s food chain and security ecosystem. Any 
impairment  of  that  food  chain  or  security  ecosystem 
potentially imperils the security of humankind globally.
In  its  70-year  history,  the  United  Nations  has 
undeniably  made  notable  inroads  to  combat  climate 
change  and  promote  sustainable  development.  It  has 
galvanized  attention  to  climate  change  and  adopted  a 
Framework Convention to fashion a global response to 
stabilize greenhouse gas emissions without jeopardizing 
global development. The United Nations has marshalled 
financial,  scientific  and  technological  support  for 
countries in need of it and, with the adoption of 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), 
signaled a global transformation for planet, people and 
prosperity.
But the jury is still out on the United Nations record 
of achievements. Notwithstanding a global commitment 
to  tackle  climate  change,  our  efforts  have  been  less 
than  ambitious,  and  achieving  a  successor  global 
emission  reduction  regime  hangs  in  the  balance,  not 
least because finance and technology are conspicuously 
wanting. Worse yet, the failure of the world’s Powers to 
agree to hold the global average temperature increase 
to well below 1.5°C relative to pre-industrial levels will 
certainly condemn small island developing States and 
low-lying coastal States.
the  vulnerable  paying 
Our  misses  in  peace  and  security  are  no  less 
grave,  with 
the  price  of 
political  expediency.  Through  our  awesome  power 
of  communication  the  world  is  stricken  with  the 
unanswered cries of men, women and children suffering 
from indiscriminate acts perpetrated in Syria, Palestine, 
Israel, Nigeria, Ukraine and beyond.
This condition brings me back to the question posed 
at the beginning of my statement regarding the capacity 
of the United Nations to address the most pressing global 
challenges. Belize entertains no doubt that the power, 
wealth  and  knowledge  that  lie  within  the  collective 
membership of the United Nations make it capable of 
achieving stupendous feats. But we must first commit 
to working together and with all stakeholders — large 
and  small,  public  and  private.  Unity  is  strength.  The 
might of the United Nations rests in its universality and 
the  endurable  values  enshrined  in  its  Charter.  Belize 
readily  shoulders  its  responsibilities  as  a  member  of 
this community of nations.
We  are  committed  to  doing  everything  in  our 
power  that  will  promote  the  containment,  if  not  the 
34/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
reversal,  of  climate  change.  We  have  joined  with  our 
brothers  and  sisters  of  the  small  island  and  low-lying 
developing States in a pioneering initiative — the Small 
Island Developing States Sustainable Energy Initiative, 
which Belize proudly hosts — to foster our transition 
to low-carbon and climate-resilient economies. We also 
commit to pushing for a robust and ambitious regime 
in Paris that will have all of us working in lockstep to 
stabilize  greenhouse  gas  emissions  and  safeguard  the 
planet and the sustainable development of our people.
Likewise, we stand ready to provide every support 
to United Nation initiatives that will bring the warring 
factions  in  Syria,  and  in  Israel  and  Palestine,  to  the 
table  to  find  peaceful  solutions  to  their  differences. 
We  are  committed  to  combating  terrorism,  and  we 
unreservedly  condemn 
the  atrocities  perpetrated 
against women and girls in Nigeria by Boko Haram. We 
express  our  solidarity  with  the  Nigerian  Government 
on its efforts to dismantle that criminal gang and bring 
its members to justice.
Belize  supports  the  ongoing  initiatives  to  reform 
the United Nations to make it more representative and 
better  able  to  maintain  peace  and  resolve  conflicts. 
We  continue  to  call  for  the  United  Nations  to  engage 
with  Taiwan,  whose  23  million  people  stand  ready 
to  contribute,  especially 
through  United  Nations 
specialized agencies, to resolving the world’s problems 
and  who  have  every  expectation  that  their  interests 
should be heard and represented.
We welcome the unanimous support for the Security 
Council  decision  to  terminate  seven  resolutions  that 
inflicted sanctions on Iran upon receipt by the Council 
of  a  report  from  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency.
Belize  also  welcomes  the  re-establishment  of 
diplomatic  relations  between  the  United  States  and 
Cuba,  and  we  urge  the  United  States  to  now  proceed 
expeditiously  to  ending  the  very  damaging  embargo 
against  Cuba  and  to  return  Guantanamo  Bay  to  the 
Cuban Government.
We call upon powerful arms-producing nations to 
refrain  from  selling  arms  and  weapons  to  those  who 
use them to oppress others, and to warlords in war-torn 
countries.
Belize has always taken peace, security and respect 
for  human  rights  very  seriously.  Our  Constitution  is 
modelled on the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights, in which the protection of fundamental rights 
and  freedoms  is  enshrined.  The  Belize  Government 
assiduously respects the rule of law.
Belize also endeavours to be a good global citizen. 
Our  laws  have  evolved  to  reflect  international  norms 
and  standards,  covering  areas  from  human  rights  to 
finance,  creating  enabling  environments  that  promote 
and  protect  the  fundamental  freedoms  of  our  people, 
and  fostering  socially  responsible  investment  in  our 
country.  Our  National  Assembly  has  recently  enacted 
a  new  and  robust  Banking  Act  and  has  improved 
regulations for our Ship Registry to bring them in line 
with global efforts, including those of the Organization 
for Economic Cooperation and Development, so as to 
enhance  transparency  and  strengthen  our  legislative 
framework.
Our  Government  has 
in 
investing  millions  of  dollars 
focused  very  heavily 
on  improving  the  lives  of  ordinary  Belizeans.  We 
are 
improving 
infrastructure countrywide, including the construction 
and  refurbishment  of  schools,  sporting  facilities, 
hospitals  and  roads.  We  are  investing  heavily  in  road 
safety  to  reduce  injuries  and  deaths  associated  with 
traffic accidents. Access to public health services has 
been expanded throughout the country. We have made 
it  easier  for  Belizeans  to  access  affordable  credit  by 
ensuring  an  unprecedented  reduction  in  interest  rates 
through  the  establishment  of  our  very  own  National 
Bank of Belize. Unemployment has been significantly 
reduced, by 10 per cent, while at the same time we have 
been able to keep the inflation rate among the lowest in 
our region.
Belize  believes  fervently  in  integration  and  in 
peaceful  coexistence.  To  that  end,  we  are  also  doing 
our  part  to  ensure  that  peace  and  security  prevail  in 
our part of the world. Together with all Latin American 
and  Caribbean  countries,  we  have  jointly  designated 
our region as a zone of peace. Alongside the Caribbean 
Community,  we  stand  in  solidarity  with  our  brothers 
and  sisters  in  Haiti  as  they  deal  with  the  human 
rights impasse with their sister nation, the Dominican 
Republic. We also stand in solidarity with our brothers 
and  sisters  in  Guyana  and  Venezuela  as  they  work 
towards an amicable solution to their territorial dispute.
Earlier this year, we signed a protocol to the Special 
Agreement  between  Belize  and  Guatemala,  to  submit 
Guatemala’s  territorial  insular  and  maritime  claim  to 
our  country  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  We 
expect that will facilitate and speed up the process to 
finally  and  definitively  put  an  end  to  the  unfounded 
15-29816
35/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
claims that have plagued us and our region for far too 
long.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 
Ms.  Clarice  Modeste-Curwen,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Grenada.
Ms. Modeste-Curwen (Grenada): I am pleased to 
bring our usual warm greetings from the Government 
and  the  people  of  Grenada,  on  whose  behalf  I  am 
privileged  to  address  this  renowned  institution  and 
distinguished  gathering.  I  am  also  pleased  to  join 
esteemed  colleagues  who  preceded  me  in  thanking 
the  outgoing  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  of  Uganda,  for  his 
energetic  and  focused  leadership  in  the  sixty-ninth 
session. I commend that session for blazing a trail that 
gives us no choice but to follow as we strive to deliver 
and implement a transformative post-2015 development 
agenda.
I also congratulate and thank Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon for his extraordinary leadership of the United 
Nations  and  express  our  deep  gratitude  especially  for 
the  keen  interest  he  has  shown  in  the  developmental 
challenges facing small island developing States (SIDS).
To  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventieth session, Mr. Mogens Lykketoft of Denmark, 
I wish to say: please be assured, Sir, of my delegation’s 
fullest cooperation and support as you embark on the 
road ahead for peace, security and human rights.
As is the custom, our themes reflect the current state 
of international affairs, as indeed they must. It should be 
no surprise that matters of peace, security and human 
rights continue to feature in the international discourse. 
Indeed, without those fundamental pillars of an orderly 
international system it would be colossal waste of time 
to  even  start  to  think  of  improving  the  quality  of  the 
lives of our people. Therefore, at this historic juncture 
of the United Nations at 70, the President is accepting a 
new commitment to action for transforming our world. 
Interestingly, recent history has shown us that without 
peace, security and human rights, development cannot 
be sustained.
The  impacts  of  climate  change  are  already  being 
felt  the  world  over,  and  without  a  successful,  legally 
binding agreement in Paris, we will see climate change 
continue  unabated.  We  will  see  more  floods  and 
droughts, more hurricanes and cyclones, more hunger, 
more insecurity, more troubled spots around the world 
and  more  economies  in  crisis.  As  leaders  and  as  a 
community of nations, we will take actions from today 
onwards that will dictate whether we bequeath to others 
a world where peace, security and human rights can be 
assured, or a world where human tragedy and suffering 
become the norm.
The General Assembly has recognized the unique 
vulnerabilities of SIDS. Grenada endorses the Security 
Council’s  initiative  to  discuss  the  challenges  facing 
SIDS.  We  strongly  urge  the  Council  to  give  greater 
consideration to the special circumstances of SIDS in 
relation to both traditional and non-traditional security 
concerns.  Climate  change  is  a  critical  issue,  not  only 
for  intellectual  debate,  but  in  its  manifestation  as  a 
major, multidimensional security threat to small island 
developing  States.  The  foundation  of  our  sustainable 
development  platform 
is  undermined  by  climate 
change. The recent experience of our sister nation, the 
Commonwealth of Dominica, is ample evidence.
Let  us  now  commit,  ahead  of  the  twenty-first 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 
Paris, to adopting a new, legally binding global climate 
change agreement that will hold the global temperature 
rise  well  below  2°C,  or  1.5°C  above  pre-industrial 
levels.  A  framework  for  climate  change  cannot  wait. 
We  need  immediate  consensus  on  climate  change, 
including financing.
We  wish  to  place  on  record  our  gratitude  to  our 
international  partners  for  their  support  in  developing 
our  capacity  for  climate  change  adaptation  and 
mitigation  in  Grenada.  We  reaffirm  our  commitment 
to Agenda 21 and the SIDS Accelerated Modalities of 
Action (SAMOA) 2Pathway.
Grenada strongly supports convening the Triennial 
Oceans and Seas Global Conferences, for the duration 
of  the  2030  Agenda  on  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1), to coincide with World Oceans Day, 
beginning  with  the  June  2017  Conference  in  Fiji.  We 
further  suggest  that  initiatives  like  the  Small  Island 
Developing  States  Sustainable  Energy 
Initiative 
be  used  as  a  global  platform  for  Governments  and 
relevant  stakeholders  to  ensure  financing  for  the  full 
implementation  of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  14 
and its targets.
A  little  over  two  years  ago,  the  Government 
of  Grenada,  with  the  support  of  the  international 
community, initiated a programme of fiscal adjustment 
and structural reforms to boost economic growth and 
36/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
competitiveness,  restore  fiscal  and  debt  sustainability 
and  strengthen  the  financial  sector.  We  have  made 
significant  progress  thus  far,  and  our  achievements 
have  been  documented  in  published  reports  of  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  and  others.  The  success 
of  the  programme  derived  from  a  social  compact 
initiated  by  government  to  include  our  churches, 
non-governmental  organizations,  trade  unions,  the 
private sector and political parties.
We  now  call  upon  the  international  community 
to  make  good  on  its  unkept  promises  of  0.7  per  cent 
official  development  assistance,  notwithstanding  that 
0.2 per cent goes to SIDS, such as Grenada. We urge 
the  international  community  to  share  in  the  sacrifice 
that  is  required  at  this  difficult  period  in  our  history. 
However, the unilateral graduation of many small island 
developing States to middle-income status is premature 
and  has  resulted  in  significant  budgetary  shortfalls. 
I  therefore  reiterate  the  call  for  a  more  holistic  and 
comprehensive set of indicators for classifying States. 
The point is that per capita income as a sole measure, 
without the context of climate vulnerability and other 
inherent  structural  challenges,  does  more  harm  than 
good.
We  must  reaffirm  that  the  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) will depend on 
revitalized and enhanced global partnerships. Together, 
Governments, civil society, the private sector and the 
United Nations system must embrace all stakeholders, 
and  we  must  get  delivery  on  the  commitments  made 
on the Samoa Pathway. Our people and our planet can 
realize  prosperity  and  peace  only  through  reliable 
partnerships  and  frameworks,  which  are  assured  by 
trust.
Small island developing States like Grenada — already 
disadvantaged  by  small  economies  of  scale,  climate 
impact  caused  mainly  by  developed  countries,  and 
high  indebtedness  —  only  seek  a  level  playing  field 
that takes our disadvantages into account. However, we 
are  disheartened  by  the  fact  that  the  same  developed 
partners  with  whom  we  sit 
transparent 
intergovernmental engagement to find ways to develop 
our  capacity  revert  to  suspiciously  blacklisting  and 
declaring all jurisdictions to be harmful tax havens. We 
call  for  developed  countries  to  carefully  weigh  their 
interactions  with  small  and  vulnerable  island  States 
to  ensure  that  we  are  in  no  way  unjustly  victimized 
economically  and  in  reputation,  especially  when  we 
in  our 
have  worked  assiduously  to  comply  with  stipulated 
requirements.
Grenada  asserts  that  partnerships  for  sustainable 
development must be based on global solidarity, which 
affirms that none among Member States is more equal 
than the others. Grenada seeks to safeguard the fiscal 
performance  achieved  with  the  necessary  support  of 
partners and stakeholders.
History  dictates  that  we  must  embrace  our  grave 
responsibility, daunting though it may be, to ensure a 
peaceful and sustainably developed planet for posterity. 
The carnage being committed around the world as we 
speak,  demonstrated  by  the  persistent  disregard  for 
human life, and the quest for dominance concealed by 
any faith cannot be condoned. The concept or definition 
of peace begs for global consensus. A peaceful world is 
not just one without a world war. Authority and power 
must mean caring, not killing.
The  plight  of  displaced  people  driven  from  their 
habitat — in extremely inhumane conditions, in search 
of peace and a better life, free of fear — is regrettable 
and  warrants  our  collective  and  decisive  action  to 
avert a wider and more destructive wave of migration. 
The  spectacle  of  drowning  and  dying  people,  lost 
and  displaced  children,  the  abuse  of  the  weak  and 
the  elderly  and  sexual  violence  against  women  are 
disgraces  to  humankind.  Their  stories  remind  us  of 
our  interconnectedness  as  a  global  village  and  of  our 
common humanity. In the words of the late Dr. Martin 
Luther  King  Jr.,  “Injustice  anywhere  is  a  threat  to 
justice everywhere.”
Mr. Gumende (Mozambique), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
Grenada condemns the atrocities and crimes against 
humankind. Human dignity must be maintained in our 
world as one vital element to ensure the future we want. 
Our cities and human settlements must remain inclusive 
and safe, resilient and sustainable. Therefore, Grenada 
appeals to all Member States to embrace SDG 11 and 
to promote dialogue and diplomacy in the resolution of 
conflicts. In that regard, Grenada applauds the progress 
made  in  the  recent  rapprochement  between  Cuba  and 
the United States. Grenada sees this peaceful resolution 
through dialogue as an example to be emulated between 
and  among  all  States  where  violence,  conflicts  and 
disputes  prevail.  Nevertheless,  Grenada  joins  in  the 
call for the total lifting of the commercial and financial 
embargo imposed on the sister island of Cuba.
15-29816
37/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
Grenada  supports  objective  assessments  of  the 
role of the United Nations in the modern world so as to 
consolidate  its  established  knowledge-based  authority 
and  legitimacy  as  the  premier  global  political  forum. 
However,  it  is  time  to  update  our  GPS.  Maintaining 
the status quo in the Security Council should not be an 
option. But the Security Council, as a pillar of global 
security, must be carefully handled. In this regard, our 
Organization  should  take  stock  of  the  contributions 
made  by  all  Member  States  to  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council, bearing in mind that a strengthened 
Council will be better obtained and maintained through 
global consensus. Grenada also applauds the efforts to 
strengthen the role of the General Assembly to ensure 
lasting peace, security and human rights.
Ambitious  though  it  may  be,  the  agenda  set  for 
the  post-2015  era  dictates  that  we  must  succeed.  If 
we have the courage to start, we have the capacity to 
successfully  implement  the  SDGs  for  our  planet,  for 
prosperity today and for posterity.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Jean-Claude Gakosso, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Cooperation of the Republic of the Congo.
Mr.  Gakosso  (Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  His 
Excellency Mr. Denis Sassou Nguesso, President of the 
Republic of the Congo, has bestowed on me the great 
honour  of  representing  him  at  the  Assembly.  On  his 
behalf  and  on  behalf  of  the  delegation  accompanying 
me,  I  would  like  to  take  this  solemn  opportunity  to 
sincerely  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mogens 
Lykketoft  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session.  I  also  pay  tribute 
to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Sam Kahamba 
Kutesa,  for  his  leadership.  I  recognize  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon’s 
in 
guiding  the  affairs  of  the  Organization,  and  I  renew 
the indestructible support of my country, the Republic 
of the Congo, for his constant efforts to bring about a 
world characterized by peace, freedom, democracy and 
development for all.
tireless  commitment 
In creating the United Nations, the founding fathers 
did not intend just to preserve future generations from 
the scourge of war, but also — and this is stated in the 
San  Francisco  Charter  —  to  promote  social  progress 
and better standards of life for the multitude.
In  the  past  70  years  tremendous  human  progress, 
with spectaculer scientific and technological advances in 
various areas, has opened up unexpected opportunities 
for  humankind.  People  everywhere  have  become 
thirsty  for  democracy  and  freedom.  Many  Bastilles 
have  been  stormed  and  the  walls  of  totalitarianism 
have  crumbled.  There  are  many  countries  like  mine 
that, since the beginning of the 1960s, have been able 
to  enjoy  their  inalienable  right  to  self-determination, 
shrugging  off  the  yoke  of  colonalism  and  joining 
the  large  family  of  the  free,  right  here  in  the  concert 
of  nations.  The  emergence  of  new  Powers,  a  historic 
development of which we are privileged witnesses, has 
birthed  a  multipolar  world.  Since  then,  international 
cooperation  has  experienced  a  tremendous  expansion 
through activities in varied areas.
Over  the  past  70  years,  humankind  has  not 
experienced tragedy on the scale of that of the Second 
World War. This long period of peace since 1945 — quite 
similar  to  that  which  began  following  the  famous 
Congress  of  Vienna  in  1815,  two  centuries  ago,  and 
which lasted until the start of the First World War — is 
owed  largely  to  the  United  Nations,  the  Organization 
that has often served as a catalyst and central forum for 
harmonizing the efforts of peaceloving nations. When 
we draw up the balance sheet of the last 70 years, it can 
be said that the United Nations has more than kept its 
promise and given proof, if proof were needed, of how 
much it is needed and how relevant it is to history.
My country, the Republic of the Congo, welcomes 
the  resumption  of  relations  between  Cuba  and  the 
United States. We believe that this easing of relations 
between  the  two  countries  goes  in  the  direction  of 
history. My country’s Government fervently hopes that 
this courageous and thoughtful process will lead fairly 
quickly to the lifting of the economic embargo that has 
had a stranglehold on the Cuban people for far too long. 
We call on that generous humanism that the American 
people have demonstrated in crucial periods of history, 
such as during the Second World War.
My country, the Republic of the Congo, welcomes 
the recent conclusion of the Iranian nuclear agreement 
because  it  represents  a  further  step  towards  a  world 
free of destructive arsenals, indeed towards a world of 
peace.
Along  with  this  inarguable  progress,  we  cannot 
ignore the weaknesses that have often characterized the 
actions  of  our  Organization  and  that  sometimes  have 
reduced  its  ability  to  influence  the  course  of  events. 
We  still  have  not  managed  to  ward  off  the  spectre  of 
war  or  all  forms  of  armed  conflict —  conflicts  often 
fuelled by non-State actors, by nebulous networks that 
38/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
feed terrorism, by widely dispersed small groups that 
take  religious  proselytism  to  extremes,  by  reckless 
drug  cartels  or  by  pirates  of  misery  who  plunder  the 
waterways.
Climate change and its dangerous repercussions for 
the  environment,  endemic  poverty,  migration  crises, 
inequalities between States and within States, to stick 
with  iconic  and  contemporary  examples,  are  today 
real threats to the stability of States and world peace. 
Central Africa, the region that I hail from, has not been 
spared by these plagues, in view of the attacks by the 
Lord’s Resistance Army and the unspeakable atrocities 
committed  in  Nigeria,  the  Niger,  Cameroon  and 
Chad by the sadly infamous sect called Boko Haram. 
Given the gravity of this new genre of terrorist threat, 
the  States  of  the  region  have  recognized  the  need  to 
oppose  it  with  a  common  response,  which  is  why  we 
in the Economic Community of Central African States 
have  mobilized  to  fight  that  irredentist,  terrorist  and 
sectarian  organization.  To  this  worrying  picture  we 
might  add  the  ongoing  tensions  in  Mali  and  South 
Sudan,  which  continue  despite  the  signing  of  several 
peace agreements.
With respect to the Central African Republic, His 
Excellency Mr. Denis Sassou Nguesso, as is well known, 
is steadfastly leading the international mediation in the 
crisis  that  this  brotherly  country  has  been  facing  for 
many years. The national reconciliation forum held in 
Bangui  in  May  resulted  in  findings  that  demonstrate 
the  willingness  of  Central  Africans  to  turn  the  page 
on the recurrent crises that have marked the history of 
their country.
to 
However,  their  legitimate  aspiration  for  peace 
remains  subject 
the  successful  conclusion  of 
the  electoral  process,  for  which  the  support  of  the 
international community as a whole remains necessary if 
we want to see that country achieve the transition, token 
of lasting stability, before 31 December. Unfortunately, 
the  painful  events  of  recent  days,  which  have  been 
punctuated with unheard-of violence, could jeopardize 
all the efforts to help the country recover lasting peace 
and stability. The serious incidents that shook Bangui 
recently and the recurrence of intercommunal violence 
can  only  reinforce  the  widely  shared  impression  that 
the transition process as it stands today remains fragile. 
That is why our commitment to that country is so highly 
sought after.
In  this  decisive  phase  of  the  transition  process, 
President Denis Sassou Nguesso, international mediator 
of  the  crisis,  is  dedicated  more  deeply  than  ever  to 
his  mission.  With  the  support  of  all  partners,  he  will 
spare no effort to meet the Central African Republic’s 
innumerable  challenges,  almost  all  of  which  can  be 
characterized as a high priority or an emergency.
the  ongoing  commitment  of 
I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  international 
community  for 
the 
International Contact Group, and also salute the tireless 
efforts of all the peacekeeping forces deployed in Central 
African  Republic  since  the  beginning  of  the  crisis, 
first in the framework of the African-led International 
Support Mission in the Central African Republic, then 
under the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic, 
then  under  Operation  Sangaris,  and  finally  under  the 
European  Union-led  peacekeeping  force.  At  the  same 
time,  I  wish  to  salute  the  memory  of  all  the  brave 
soldiers who have sacrificed their lives for the sake of 
peace and international solidarity.
Peace  and  stability,  both  at  the  national  and 
international  levels,  as  we  know  well,  cannot  be 
effective without a minimum of economic development 
that benefits the greatest number of people, especially 
in developing countries. As we celebrate the seventieth 
anniversary of our Organization, the adoption a few days 
ago  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1)  is  in  all  respects  a  decisive  step  in 
building the brighter future we want for our planet, for 
our people, for posterity.
for 
sustainable  development, 
By  establishing  an  effective  strategy  for  funding 
and  planning 
the 
Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda,  adopted  in  July  at  the 
third  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development, puts us squarely on track for cooperation 
for  development  for  all.  The  Republic  of  the  Congo 
completely aligns itself with this viewpoint and hopes 
to see significant progress in the implementation of that 
comprehensive new programme.
My  country  is  among  those  that  have  a  national 
strategy  for  sustainable  development,  which  is  an 
essential  instrument  for  strategic  planning.  It  is  also 
one of those countries where the practice of democracy 
is  being  consolidated  and  strengthened  every  day,  in 
particular  through  a  continuous  process  of  regular 
citizen consultations between opposition and majority 
parties, with a view to peaceful elections.
With the peace and stability it enjoys, and aware that 
sport contributes to the promotion of education, health, 
15-29816
39/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
development and peace, our Government successfully 
organized,  from  4  to  19  July  2015,  the  eleventh  All-
Africa Games, of which our capital Brazzaville is the 
historic birthplace.
At  the  2005  World  Summit  our  senior  leaders 
clearly  expressed  their  decision  to  see  the  United 
Nations  reformed,  starting  with  its  spearhead,  the 
Security  Council.  That  decision  demonstrates  the 
steadfast  collective  will  to  put  our  Organization  in  a 
new  historic  perspective.  We  firmly  believe  that  the 
United  Nations  vitally  needs  greater  transparency, 
justice, equality and internal democracy, while strictly 
respecting  the  sovereign  equality  the  dignity  of  each 
State. By defining and adopting a common position in 
the framework of the Ezulwini Consensus, Africa has 
clearly shown the way for the necessary reform that it 
resolutely calls for.
The Republic of the Congo here solemnly renews 
its commitment to the United Nations, in the footsteps 
of  the  founding  fathers  and  in  accordance  with  the 
Preamble of the Charter. On behalf of the Republic of the 
Congo, I exhort the community of nations gathered here 
to consolidate its efforts more than ever to definitively 
make manifest the noble ideals of freedom and equality, 
justice and peace, solidarity among peoples and human 
generosity.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency Mr. Manuel Salvador dos Ramos, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs, Cooperation and Communities of 
the Democratic Republic of Sao Tomé and Principe.
Mr. Dos Ramos (Sao Tomé and Principe) (spoke in 
Portuguese;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): 
It is my distinct honour and privilege to participate in 
the proceedings of the General Assembly on behalf of 
and representing the Democratic Republic of Sao Tomé 
and Principe.
At 
like 
the  outset,  I  would 
to  respectfully 
congratulate  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  on  his  election 
to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventieth  session  and  to  express  our  full  support  for 
him throughout his term. May it be highly successful. 
His election is a result of the recognition by the States 
Members of the United Nations of his noble humanity, 
vast political experience and unblemished professional 
history.
Before  we  begin  to  address  the  various  topics 
that  are  of  crucial  importance  as  contributions  to  a 
better  world,  we  must  remember  that  this  year  marks 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  this  Organization.  That 
should provide Member States with the opportunity to 
deeply reflect on the road that has brought us this far 
and  on  the  different  reforms  that  must  be  introduced 
to  make  it  more  representative,  legitimate,  dynamic, 
efficient and inclusive and ever more responsive to the 
reality  and  challenges  imposed  by  armed  conflicts, 
climate changes, migrant and refugee crises, economic 
deregulation, endemic diseases, poverty and hunger.
Against that backdrop, we welcome the relevance 
of the themes of this session, which reflect the reality 
of  our  times.  The  post-2015  development  agenda  and 
the  proper  framing  and  resolution  of  climate  change 
issues  will  surely  create  a  path  towards  sustainable 
development  for  developing  countries,  particularly  on 
the African continent.
We  further  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  the  competent, 
selfless  and  zealous  manner  in  which  he  has  led  our 
Organization. We also pay tribute to outgoing President 
Sam  Kutesa,  who  led  our  General  Assembly  with 
dedication and strength during the past 12 months.
(see 
For 
Gathered at Headquarters from 25 to 27 September, 
world  leaders  adopted  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals 
resolution  70/1).  The  Millennium 
Development  Goals  proved  to  be  a  good  catalyst  to 
mobilize  synergies  and  achieve  progress  in  social 
development  —  the  reduction  of  poverty,  hunger  and 
disease;  advances  in  maternal  health;  and  access  to 
drinking  water.  During  that  period  there  were  major 
geopolitical  and  economic  shifts.  We  believe  that  the 
multidimensional  nature  of  poverty  and  fragility  has 
changed. We hope that the development process in this 
new phase may be more inclusive, qualitative and, as the 
name suggests, sustainable for all, with all regions of 
our planet taking ownership and making commitments.
its  path 
towards  economic  and  sustainable  development,  six 
pillars  that  are  important  to  mention  here  and  with 
which  Sao  Tomé  and  Principe  identifies:  structural 
economic 
inclusive  growth; 
science,  technology  and  innovation;  people-centred 
development; 
natural 
resources and natural disaster management; peace and 
security; and finances and partnerships.
this  purpose,  Africa  chose,  as 
transformation  and 
environment, 
sustainable 
We  believe  that  in  erecting  those  pillars  Africa 
will take significant and necessary steps to guide the 
continent  towards  fulfilling  the  legitimate  aspirations 
40/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
of its peoples, thereby ensuring ever greater integration, 
prosperity  and  peace,  under  African  leadership,  with 
top  priority  given  to  the  dignity  and  identity  of  our 
sons  and  daughters.  That  will  enhance  the  capacity 
for creativity, innovation and production and will have 
an  immediate  and  direct  impact  on  the  economy  and 
sustainable  human  development  because  it  will  be 
properly sustained.
Our  country,  Sao  Tomé  and  Principe,  believes  in 
the  above  and  urges  the  United  Nations  to  adapt  its 
programmes to the specific realities of Africa, without 
losing  sight  of  the    continent’s  accomplishments  in 
achieving some of the eight Millennium Development 
Goals by some countries.
Unfortunately,  we  continue 
to  see  persistent 
hotbeds of tension and the emergence of new ones with 
humanitarian  repercussions  of  alarming  proportions 
throughout  the  world.  In  Mali  and  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  efforts  undertaken  by 
regional  organizations,  the  African  Union  and  the 
United  Nations  have  introduced  some  stability  to 
the  conflict  zones.  These  efforts  must  continue  to  be 
coordinated and channelled in order to consolidate and 
reinforce the achievements.
The perennial issue of Western Sahara remains on 
the  international  stage  and  therefore  requires  greater 
engagement from all of us in the search for a permanent 
solution for that negotiation process, which has dragged 
on and stagnated for some time. However, to the credit 
of  the  parties,  armed  conflict  has  not  resumed.  We 
appeal to them to return to the negotiations and find a 
mutually acceptable political solution.
We  are  heartened  by  the  recent  resolution  of 
the  political  situation  in  the  Republic  of  Guinea-
Bissau,  where  a  serious  political  crisis  has  been 
overcome  without  recourse  to  violence  and  in  strict 
accordance  with  the  rule  of  law.  That  bears  clear 
testimony to the democratic maturity that our brothers 
and sisters have achieved.
As  terrorism  continues  to  be  a  central  issue  in 
international  politics,  and  in  light  of  renewed  acts 
of  terrorism  throughout  the  world,  we  believe  the 
international  community  must  act  in  a  coordinated 
manner. Only then will we be able to fight this global 
scourge. We clearly and strongly condemn the repeated 
and  hideous  crimes  that  the  Boko  Haram  group  has 
been perpetrating in our neighbour, the sisterly nation 
of Nigeria.
In  our  opinion,  nothing  can  justify  the  atrocities 
that  Boko  Haram  terrorists  have  committed,  and  we 
take the opportunity in this privileged forum to reiterate 
our unequivocal condemnation of such practices, which 
are unacceptable in every way. We wish to express the 
unwavering  support  for  and  heartfelt  solidarity  of  all 
Santomeans  with  our  Nigerian  brothers  and  sisters, 
and  we  congratulate  the  people  and  Government  of 
Nigeria on their successes in the fight against terrorism 
perpetrated by Boko Haram.
Unfortunately,  in  the  Middle  East  we  continue  to 
see bloody conflicts and loss of lives with the ongoing 
hositlities  between  Israel  and  Palestine.  Therefore  we 
appeal  again  for  a  peaceful  and  negotiated  solution 
that  upholds  both  the  Palestinian  people’s  right  to 
self-determination  and  the  State  of  Israel’s  right  to 
exist, in accordance with the pertinent United Nations 
resolutions, with two free and sovereign States living 
by side in peace and cooperating fully for development.
Similarly,  we  cannot  fail  to  comment  on  the 
persistence  of  the  domestic  conflict  in  Syria  and  its 
disastrous  consequences.  We  again  appeal  to  the 
international community to make all efforts to achieve 
a  cessation  of  hostilities,  thus  opening  the  way  for  a 
frank dialogue toward a political solution to re-establish 
a lasting peace.
However, the prevailing situation is an opportunity 
for  deeper  reflection,  in  light  of  the  migration  crisis 
that is centred on the Mediterranean as the main access 
point  to  Europe.  Indeed,  the  waves  of  people  of  all 
ages who are reaching Europe from war zones are not 
migrants.  They  are  refugees.  They  are  not  evading 
poverty  or  hunger;  they  are  literally  running  away 
from death. When a mother places a young child in a 
precarious  boat  for  a  difficult  journey  across  a  rough 
sea, with criminals at the helm, she does so because she 
considers that to be safer than the terra firma that she 
left behind. Therefore, we must seriously reflect on such 
episodes  and  the  lessons  they  teach  us  regarding  the 
signs of the new times, and draw our conclusions. We 
must refrain from promoting or exporting democracy in 
an outsider’s meddling manner or, worse still, through 
aggression and/or violence.
We believe that everybody will agree with us when we 
affirm that global security is vital to ensure sustainable 
development for our countries, and that it should begin 
at the regional and local levels. Located on the Gulf of 
Guinea, where we have seen a fresh outbreak of acts of 
maritime piracy, terrorism, drug trafficking, oil heists 
15-29816
41/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
and other transnational organized crimes, São Tomé and 
Príncipe understands that the international community 
must combine its efforts to stop such acts. Therefore, 
allow me to mention the various existing partnerships, 
both bilateral and multilateral, and cooperation, among 
the  Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States, 
the Economic Community of West African States and 
the  Gulf  of  Guinea  Commission  in  implementing  the 
recommendations of the Yaoundé Summit, which have 
made  significant  progress  possible  in  the  relentless 
fight against this type of criminal organization in our 
region.
With  respect  to  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change that will take place this year in Paris, São Tomé 
and Príncipe believes that it is imperative that we reach 
a global agreement on climate change, as our country 
is already being affected by its nefarious effects, even 
though we are not an active polluter. Our vulnerabilities 
include,  for  example,  a  reduction  in  rainfall  and,  as 
a  consequence,  diminished  flows  in  our  rivers,  as 
well  as  floods  and  the  gradual  erosion  of  our  coasts. 
Those warning signs are already causing concern with 
respect to our country’s climate problems, and we have 
been  combating  them  by  stopping  deforestation  and 
protecting our coastal areas.
Therefore,  we  welcome 
the  determination  of 
Germany and France to reach a climate agreement that 
is  ambitious,  broad  and  binding  on  all  parties  and  is 
in  accordance  with  the  general  rules  of  international 
law,  with  the  ultimate  objective  of  limiting  the 
increase  in  the  global  temperature  to  2°C  at  most,  as 
compared to pre-industrial levels. In our opinion, that 
constitutes  a  responsibility  shared  among  developing 
and developed countries. We hope that the agreement, 
once reached, will enhance the international obligation 
of  all  signatory  parties  to  make  funds  available  for 
ongoing  scientific  monitoring  of  climate  issues  and 
the  transfer  of  technology  to  developing  countries  as 
a way of improving actions to achieve the Framework 
Convention’s goals.
In December 2014, São Tomé and Príncipe effusively 
welcomed  the  announcement  on  the  re-establishment 
of relations between the United States of America and 
Cuba,  and  we  joined  the  world  in  jubilation  over  the 
recent opening of diplomatic missions in both capitals, 
which  thus  resumed  full  diplomatic  relations.  As 
we  did  then,  we  express  the  wish  that  both  countries 
continue  to  strengthen  their  relationship  on  the  path 
of  economic,  social  and  cultural  progress  for  the 
benefit  of  their  peoples  and  humanity  in  general. 
To  that  end,  one  issue  remains  pending  —  the  trade 
embargo  imposed  against  Cuba.  It  made  no  sense  in 
the  past,  and  it  makes  no  sense  now.  For  that  reason, 
São Tomé and Príncipe appeals again for the lifting of 
the  embargo,  which  would  be  a  sign  of  a  relationship 
without  handicaps  and  would  allow  both  countries  to 
take  fair  and  equitable  advantage  of  bilateral  trade 
relations,  on  an  equal  footing  with  other  countries 
around the world.
In conclusion, we must acknowledge and welcome 
the  political  progress  achieved  by  both  sides  of  the 
Taiwan  Strait,  with  a  clear  reduction  of  tensions, 
ever  greater  openness  and  broad  trade  exchanges. 
In  addition,  given  Taiwan’s  manifold  potential,  we 
recommend  that  Taiwan  participate  in  the  United 
Nations specialized agencies, as it already does in the 
World Health Organization.
Finally,  we  reiterate  our  country’s  readiness  to 
continue participating in efforts to mobilize wills and 
synergies  to  realize  the  fundamental  principles  and 
noble  objectives  that  guided  the  establishment  of  the 
United Nations.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency Mr. Ibrahim Ahmed Abd al-Aziz Ghandour, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Sudan.
Mr.  Ghandour  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to congratulate the President on his 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its  seventieth  session.  We  trust  that  his  expertise  and 
efficiency will guide our deliberations in achieving the 
goals to which we all aspire. I express my thanks and 
appreciation to his predecessor for his patient and clear-
sighted  manner  in  steering  our  deliberations.  I  also 
thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  his  team 
for their commendable efforts at the previous session to 
establish peace and advance the development goals so 
that all peoples can enjoy security and stability.
I 
take 
to  congratulate 
this  opportunity 
the 
President,  Government  and  people  of  the  State  of 
Palestine on the raising of the Palestinian flag at United 
Nations Headquarters, and we call on the international 
community to enable the Palestinian people to establish 
their free and independent State, with East Jerusalem 
as its capital.
42/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  people  of  the 
Sudan, I convey to the Assembly the greetings of the 
President of the Republic, Field Marshall Omar Hassan 
A. Al-Bashir, and reiterate our intention to contribute 
positively  to  the  success  of  this  important  session 
of  the  General  Assembly,  which  coincides  with  the 
celebration of the seventieth anniversary of the United 
Nations under the slogan “The United Nations at 70: the 
road ahead for peace, security and human rights”.
Clearly, the agenda for our debate this year reflects 
the  concerns  and  aspirations  of  millions  of  people 
around the world for a better tomorrow and a brighter 
future,  from  surmounting  crises  caused  by  conflicts 
and  hostilities  in  many  hotspots  around  the  world 
to  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) . For all those reasons, humankind has 
great hopes for our upcoming discussion based on the 
solid  foundation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1),  which  we  adopted  last 
week.
The Government of the Sudan paid close attention 
to  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  post-
2015  development  agenda,  which  culminated  in  the 
document  adopted  after  lengthy  negotiations.  We 
therefore  welcome  the  adoption  of  the  document,  in 
whose  negotiations  we  participated.  The  Sudan  has 
begun to implement measures with a view to attaining 
those Goals. The Agenda has been mainstreamed into 
our  national  and  regional  programmes.  We  want  to 
bolster the complementary role of the United Nations, 
its country teams, relevant funds and agencies, whose 
role in implementing those plans we commend.
However,  we  reaffirm  our  resolve  to  ensure 
that  those  Goals  complement  the  process  of  peace, 
stability  and  growth  in  our  country,  despite  the  fact 
that we remain subject to unilateral coercive economic 
sanctions  that  hinder  our  ambitions  to  achieve  those 
noble Goals. From this rostrum, we strongly reject the 
coercive  and  unilateral  sanctions  imposed  on  certain 
countries, as clearly and explicitly stated in the Agenda.
In  the  wake  of  signing  and  implementing  the 
Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement  in  2005  and  the 
signing  of  the  Doha  Document  for  Peace  in  Darfur 
in  2011, 
that 
the 
international  community  would  give  special 
consideration to its overarching concerns and economic 
problems,  especially  regarding  the  alleviation  of  the 
debt  burden  that  is  a  serious  economic  impediment. 
With  regard  to  resuming  development  aid,  the  Sudan 
the  Sudan  had  great  expectations 
also anticipates treatment equal to that enjoyed by other 
countries emerging from conflicts.
However,  to  its  utmost  dismay,  my  country’s 
reward  for  achieving  peace  and  stability  and  for  all 
its  sacrifices  has  been  endless,  politically  motivated 
pressure,  sanctions,  boycotts  and  unilateral  and 
coercive  measures  that  lack  any  legal  justification 
whatsoever.  To  make  matters  even  worse,  obstacles 
have been set up to bar the Sudan from benefiting from 
certain  constructive  initiatives,  such  as  the  Heavily 
Indebted  Poor  Countries  Initiative,  also  for  purely 
political reasons unrelated to reality.
Despite the unfavourable conditions created by the 
embargo and boycott that unfairly target our people, we 
have made strenuous efforts to achieve the Millennium 
Development Goals and have given high priority to the 
elimination  of  poverty  in  its  various  manifestations 
and the mitigation of its effects. However, our gains in 
increasing  per  capita  income  have  been  offset  by  the 
fallout  from  the  independence  of  South  Sudan,  after 
which the optimal share of our oil revenues went to the 
fledgling  State,  in  addition  to  the  negative  effects  of 
the global economic crisis and the economic embargo.
those  difficulties,  we  have  achieved 
reasonable success in educational services. Enrolment 
rates  in  basic  and  secondary  education  have  greatly 
increased,  as  has  the  proportion  of  female  students, 
reflecting  our  growing  interest  in  female  education 
following  the  implementation  of  national  incentive 
policies  and  awareness  programmes.  The  growth  in 
the proportion of female students coupled with a State 
gender  policy  have  led  to  a  marked  increase  in  the 
female  employment  rates,  which  significantly  exceed 
those of men in some sectors, such as health care.
Despite 
With  regard  to  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security,  my  Government  is  on  track  to  consolidate 
democracy  and  good  governance.  As  Member  States 
might  have  seen,  the  presidential  and  parliamentary 
elections  conducted  in  the  Sudan  last  April  were 
peaceful,  fair  and  transparent  and  were  monitored  by 
a  number  of  regional  and  international  centres.  The 
people elected a President and members of Parliament 
and other legislative bodies throughout the country for 
the first time in the history of modern Sudan since its 
independence in 1956.
We  recall  the  comprehensive  national  dialogue 
initiative launched by the President of the Republic on 
27 January 2014, to which a total of 87 political parties 
15-29816
43/45
A/70/PV.25 
02/10/2015
responded  positively.  All  agreed  to  meet  and  discuss 
issues pertaining to peace, the economy, the alleviation 
of  poverty,  unity,  identity,  foreign  policy,  civic  rights 
and  duties,  human  rights,  freedoms  and  political 
practices.
Member  States  might  also  have  taken  note  of  the 
adequate  and  effective  safeguards  guaranteed  by  the 
Government to the remnants of the armed rebel groups 
in a bid to secure their safe participation in the dialogue, 
without restriction or precondition. In that context, on 
21 September 2014 the President of the Republic issued 
two presidential decrees on the renewal of amnesty for 
all armed individuals and the extension of a unilateral 
moratorium for an additional two months as an incentive 
to  the  armed  groups  and  individuals  to  participate  in 
the comprehensive national dialogue process, which is 
open to all.
With  regard  to  safeguarding  human  rights,  the 
Government  of  the  Sudan  has  made  commendable 
achievements  in  the  past  and  has  taken  many  steps 
to  safeguard  and  protect  those  rights,  including  the 
adoption, more than one year ago, of a comprehensive 
10-year  human  rights  development  plan,  which  now 
represents  a  comprehensive  strategy  and  course  of 
action for all relevant ministries and State institutions.
With  regard  to  the  protection  of  women’s  rights, 
especially  their  right  to  participate  in  political  life, 
the  aforementioned  presidential  and  parliamentary 
elections  bear  witness  to  the  inclusion  of  women, 
which proved to be critical at all stages to ensuring the 
success of the elections. Women hold 30 per cent of all 
parliamentary seats.
In  respect  of  cooperation  with  United  Nations 
mechanisms and relevant envoys, the Government of the 
Sudan maintains constant cooperation and coordination 
with the Independent Expert on the situation of human 
rights  in  the  Sudan  and  participates  actively  in  the 
universal periodic review of the Human Rights Council 
in Geneva.
In  the  field  of  combating  cross-border  crime,  the 
Government of the Sudan has signed several bilateral 
agreements  with  neighbouring  countries,  including 
Libya,  Chad,  the  Central  African  Republic,  South 
Sudan and Ethiopia, with a view to tightening border 
controls,  preventing  trafficking  in  arms  and  stopping 
the infiltration of organized crime, including trafficking 
in  persons.  In  October  2014  my  Government  hosted 
and co-organized the Regional Conference on Human 
Trafficking and Smuggling in the Horn of Africa, and 
has  enacted  a  national  law  to  combat  trafficking  in 
human beings, which entered into force last year.
Our  discussion  on  human  rights  brings  us  back 
to  the  issue  of  unilateral  sanctions,  in  the  context  of 
which  we  would  like  to  mention  the  study  conducted 
by  the  Human  Rights  Council  two  years  ago  on  the 
human rights implications of such sanctions. The study 
concluded that innocent people, not Governments, are 
the primary victims of sanctions regimes.
The  Sudan  has  always  been  an  active  partner 
in  international  efforts  to  combat  terrorism.  At  the 
national level, we have made considerable progress in 
ensuring that our laws and legislation fully comply with 
international law and the international instruments on 
terrorism to which the Sudan became a party more than 
a decade ago. The Sudan adheres strictly to their norms 
and provisions.
In  that  connection,  we  categorically  reject  all 
attempts  to  politicize  and  circumvent  the  provisions 
of  international  law.  I  cite  the  relationship  between 
the  Security  Council  and  the  International  Criminal 
Court, in respect of which experience has shown again 
and again that the scourge of politicization has turned 
the  Court  into  a  tool  for  targeting  African  leaders  in 
particular. In that regard, members may have noted the 
decisions adopted by the African Union, notably those 
adopted  at  its  Summits  in  Sirte,  Libya,  and  in  Addis 
Ababa, which were subsequently endorsed at the most 
recent Summit, in Johannesburg.
Our  world  will  not  be  healed  in  the  absence  of  a 
fair, equitable and universally acceptable international 
order. However, it has been clear for decades that the 
current  international  system  can  no  longer  cope  with 
the developments and major transformations occurring 
worldwide.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that  we  embark 
on  an  in-depth  reform  and  reconsider  agreements  in 
accordance  with  the  circumstances  surrounding  us 
today.  Therefore,  my  country  strongly  calls  for  the 
expeditious implementation of structural reform of the 
United Nations and the Security Council, in conformity 
with the principle of fair and equitable representation of 
all countries.
The  daunting  challenges 
facing  our  world 
today  require  an  overriding  international  will  and 
demonstrate the urgent need to do more to meet them. 
That fact needs to be reiterated on the anniversary of 
the adoption of the Charter of the United Natins. The 
44/45 
15-29816
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.25
United  Nations  system,  and  the  Security  Council  in 
particular,  need  reform  that  will  ensure  the  African 
continent’s  representation 
the  permanent  and 
non-permanent seats of the Council in a process free of 
politicization, selectivity and double standards.
in 
In  that  context,  we  note  that  the  fight  against 
impunity is a noble goal, around which the international 
community should converge in good faith. However, as 
a rule, mixing justice and politicization is inconsistent 
with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  international  law.  It  makes 
the  delivery  of  international  justice  a  platform  for 
achieving  narrow  political  goals  that  have  no  relation 
whatsoever  to  those  noble  objectives.  In  that  context, 
my  delegation  calls  for  strengthening  and  supporting 
regional  mechanisms  and  enhancing  preventive 
diplomacy to address all conflicts and their root causes 
within the framework of fighting poverty and achieving 
a fair balance in the field of international politics and 
economics.
The meeting rose at 2.10 p.m.
15-29816
45/45
