United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
48th plenary meeting
Thursday, 5 November 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.48
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 75 (continued)
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/70/4)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/70/327)
Mr.  Mendoza-García  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to  participate  once 
again in the annual meeting of the General Assembly 
to  consider  the  work  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice (ICJ), the only international court of a universal 
character with general jurisdiction.
My delegation congratulates Judge Ronny Abraham 
on his recent election as President of the Court. Ae are 
grateful for his presentation of the report on the work of 
the Court (A/70/4) for the period 2015-2015 and for his 
presence here in the Assembly.
During  this  reporting  period,  the  work  of  the 
Court was once again very intensive. It delivered one 
judgment,  handed  down  nine  orders,  held  two  public 
hearings,  was  seized  of  a  new  contentious  case  and 
following up on 12 pending proceedings. The fact that 
these  cases  originate  from  every  continent  is  a  clear 
reflection  of  the  universal  character  of  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction.
As the peaceful settlement of international disputes 
is  a  vital  objective  of  the  United  Nations,  the  role  of 
the  Court  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security and the promotion of the rule of law at the 
international level is a key one, hence the responsibility 
of the United Nations and its Member States to support 
the  ICJ  in  the  fulfilment  of  its  tasks.  This  support 
calls  for  the  Organization  to  ensure  that  the  Court  is 
able to deal effectively and objectively, with complete 
procedural  and  judicial  independence,  with  the  cases 
submitted to it and that it has the resources necessary 
to discharge its mandate, bearing its workload in mind.
A  key  requirement  for  the  strengthening  of  the 
rule of law and of the Court itself is for States to act 
throughout the process in accordance with the principle 
of  good  faith  and  to  respect  and  comply  with  the 
Court’s decisions, both judgments and orders, as well 
as  all  precautionary  measures  imposed,  without  any 
exception.  Such  compliance  must  be  complete  and 
in  good  faith  so  as  to  guarantee  the  integrity  of  each 
process and thereby strengthen the indisputable role of 
the Court in ensuring peace and justice.
In that vein, we welcome the statements made by 
several States that spoke before me that reaffirmed their 
commitment  to  fulfilling  the  obligations  emanating 
from  the  Court’s  decisions.  I  cannot  but  reiterate 
how  important  it  is  for  the  Organization  to  seriously 
consider  options  to  follow  up  on  these  decisions  and 
highlight  cases  of  non-compliance  in  order  to  avoid 
such situations, which contravene the rule of law.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  fact  that  in  2015, 
two  States,  Greece  and  Romania,  made  respective 
declarations recognizing as compulsory the jurisdiction 
of the Court, as contemplated by article 36, paragraphs 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-35224 (E)
*1535224*
A/70/PV.48 
05/11/2015
2 and 5, of its Statute. However, although 193 countries 
are parties to that Statute, to date only 72 have accepted 
its jurisdiction. Costa Rica has accepted as compulsory 
its  jurisdiction  since  1973  and  therefore  takes  note  of 
this fact this with concern. It respectfully calls on those 
States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  consider  making 
use of the mechanism provided for in article 36 of the 
Statute of the Court.
Throughout the years, the Court has made significant 
contributions  to  the  development  of  international  law 
through  its  judgments  and  advisory  opinions  since  it 
resolved the first dispute, on the Corfu Channel. Today, 
on  the  eve  of  celebrating  its  seventieth  anniversary, 
we  are  certain  that  the  Court  will  continue  to  work 
diligently in order to resolve the disputes submitted to 
it in a fair and impartial fashion, in accordance with the 
lofty legal mission entrusted to it by States through the 
Charter of the United Nations.
Costa  Rica,  which  disbanded  its  armed  forces  in 
1948, depends solely on international justice to defend 
its sovereign rights. On that account and in accordance 
with  our  traditional  respect  for  the  instruments  and 
bodies  of  international  law,  we  reiterate,  once  again, 
our commitment to faithfully abide by all the decisions 
that  issue  from  those  bodies,  reaffirming  our  full 
confidence  that  the  Court  will  continue  to  strengthen 
peace and justice through the objective exercise of its 
duties.
Mr.  Drobnjak  (Croatia):  Croatia 
the 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge 
Ronny Abraham, for his report (A/70/4) on the work of 
the Court over the past year.
thanks 
During  the  reporting  period,  the  Court  rendered 
its  judgment  in  the  case  brought  before  it  by  Croatia, 
Application  of  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and 
Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide  (Croatia  v. 
Serbia),  and  deliberated  on  a  number  of  other  cases 
brought before it by other States, as elaborated in detail 
by Judge Abraham. In that regard, Croatia continues to 
closely follow the work of the Court and all its activities.
Adherence to the rule-of international law is pivotal 
to ensuring the peaceful settlement of disputes between 
States and the avoidance of conflict. The International 
Court of Justice, as the principal judicial organ of the 
United Nations, has a central and fundamental role to 
play in strengthening the rule of law on the international 
level. Its task in that regard is indispensable.
Seen  more  broadly,  international  adjudication, 
in  addition  to  its  original  and  primary  purpose  to 
decide  disputes  between  States,  contributes,  by  its 
very existence, to the idea that there is an alternative 
to the unlimited exercise and misuse of power. That is 
why  international  adjudication  needs  to  be  developed 
in  accordance  with  the  highest  standards,  legal  and 
moral  alike.  Jurisprudence,  within  the  framework  of 
applicable  international  law  and  its  predictability, 
must be a powerful instrument in settling disputes by 
peaceful means and in accordance with the Charter of 
the United Nations.
Let  me  emphasize  that  States  need  to  have 
confidence  that  their  disputes  will  be  decided  upon 
competently,  independently  and  impartially,  within 
the  framework  of  the  highest  legal  and  ethical  and 
professional  standards.  The  confidence  of  States  that 
ongoing disputes will be settled through international 
adjudication  according  to  the  highest  standards  is  of 
paramount  importance  for  the  willingness  of  States 
to turn to judicial settlement for the resolution of their 
disputes  and  for  their  choice  of  the  legal  framework 
over  any  other  means.  Indeed,  the  entire  architecture 
of  international  adjudication  rests  upon  that  pivotal 
premise.
In  conclusion,  let  me  extend  Croatia’s  support  to 
the Court and its important work.
Ms. Mesquita Borges (Timor-Leste): Allow, me at 
the  outset,  to  thank  the  President  of  the  International 
Court of Justice, Judge Ronny Abraham, for presenting 
the report (A/70/4) on the work of the Court and or his 
work at the Court over the past year.
Timor-Leste  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
(see A/70/PV.47) delivered by the representative of the 
Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement.
The International Court of Justice, as the principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  is  tasked  with 
promoting  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  in 
accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
Furthermore,  it  is  the  only  international  court  of  a 
universal character with general jurisdiction.
The  universal  nature  of  the  Court  is  reflected  in 
the  diversity  of  the  cases  coming  before  it.  As  stated 
in  the  Court’s  report,  the  current  docket  includes 
cases  brought  by  sovereign  parties  from  all  regional 
groups.  That  highlights 
importance  attached 
the 
2/27 
15-35224
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.48
globally  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international 
disputes, as enshrined in the Charter, and to ensuring 
that  international  peace  and  security  and  justice  are 
not  endangered.  There  has  also  been  an  increase  in 
the  confidence  and  trust  placed  upon  the  Court,  in 
particular  by  developing  countries  and  small  States. 
The  reliance  of  small  States  on  the  Court  to  protect 
their sovereignty is a testament to its ability to resolve 
international disputes in conformity with the principles 
of  justice  and  international  law.  It  is  our  experience 
that  international  law  serves  well  in  protecting  the 
rights and interests of small States. That is why Timor-
Leste is such a strong supporter of the United Nations 
and  international  law.  The  multilateral  system  and 
international law guide fair behaviour and can provide 
States  with  options  for  dispute  resolution.  To  date, 
72 Member States have made declarations recognizing 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court. Timor-Leste 
is  in  that  group  and  expresses  its  strong  support  for 
and faith in the Court. That is exemplified by the case 
brought  before  the  International  Court  of  Justice  by 
Timor-Leste,  Questions  relating  to  the  Seizure  and 
Detention  of  Certain  Documents  and  Data  (Timor-
Leste v. Australia).
The  United  Nations  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
Rule  of  Law  at  the  National  and  International  Levels 
(see  A/67/PV.5)  recognized  the  positive  contribution 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  the  value  of 
its  work  for  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law,  which 
it  carries  out  through  its  judgments  and  advisory 
opinions,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  and,  in 
particular,  in  accordance  with  Articles  33  and  96.  In 
its role in promoting and clarifying international law, 
the Court has contributed to the development of law in 
the following areas: interference in the domestic affairs 
of  States,  the  violation  of  territorial  integrity  and 
sovereignty, and economic rights, among others. Timor-
Leste acknowledges the role of the Court in capacity-
building through the provision of information to both 
States  and  organizations  regarding  the  procedures  of 
the Court.
In  conclusion,  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United  Nations  provides  an  opportunity  to  renew  our 
commitment  —  the  commitment  of  the  international 
community  —  to  the  pacific  settlement  of  disputes 
and  to  the  work  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice. 
Only  through  such  a  commitment  can  we  ensure  the 
promotion of the rule of law in international relations 
by the United Nations.
Mr.  Cheong  Loon  Lai  (Malaysia):  Malaysia 
associates  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement (see A/70/PV.47).
We  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  to  Judge 
Ronny  Abraham,  President  of  the  International  Court 
of Justice, for the report (A/70/4) and for his briefing to 
the General Assembly on the work of the Court. We also 
thank the Secretary-General for his report (A/70/327).
Judge Abraham’s briefing has provided the General 
Assembly  with  a  better  understanding  of,  and  insight 
into,  the  work  of  the  Court.  We  furthermore  wish  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  commend  the  judges  of  the 
Court for their unwavering sense of duty in upholding 
the rule of law. We view international law as the legal 
bedrock governing and regulating inter-State relations. 
It is in that regard that, in our view, the International 
Court of Justice, as the principal judicial organ of the 
United Nations, played an important and major role in 
the maintenance of international peace and security by 
providing  a  forum  for  the  adjudication  and  peaceful 
resolutions of disputes between States and by handing 
down advisory opinions of the Court on questions and 
interpretations of law. The rulings and decisions of the 
International Court of Justice epitomize the application 
of the rule of law at the international level. Furthermore, 
the  rulings  and  decisions  of  the  Court  undoubtedly 
enrich the corpus of knowledge regarding international 
law.  The  increasing  number  of  cases  referred  to  the 
Court serves to provide further testament of the faith 
and  confidence  that  the  international  community  has 
in  the  Court’s  ability  to  discharge  its  adjudicative 
functions fairly and impartially, in accordance with the 
recognized  principles  of  international  law,  including 
the Charter of the United Nations and the Statute of the 
Court.
The  International  Court  of  Justice  plays  an 
important  role  in  the  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes 
through its adjudication process. We view the apolitical 
nature of the Court in the discharge of its functions as 
an important element contributing to the just and fair 
adjudication  of  the  cases  before  it.  It  is  our  view  that 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, as principal organs of the United Nations, are 
working towards achieving the same goal, namely, the 
maintenance of international peace and security.
We firmly and steadfastly believe that States should 
resolve  their  differences  through  peaceful  means, 
15-35224
3/27
A/70/PV.48 
05/11/2015
as  provided  for  in  international  law,  and  not  by  the 
threat or use of force. If dialogue fails and a negotiated 
settlement cannot be achieved, we view the Court, in 
addition  to  the  other  dispute  settlement  mechanisms 
available  to  the  parties,  as  an  avenue  for  the  parties 
to  a  dispute  to  peacefully  resolve  their  differences. 
Because of our commitment to the peaceful resolution 
of  disputes  and  our  confidence  in  the  Court’s  fullest 
application of the rule of law, Malaysia and its immediate 
neighbours agreed to submit to the jurisdiction of the 
Court  two  cases  regarding  disputes  on  sovereignty 
concerning  several  maritime  issues.  Our  confidence 
in  the  impartiality  of  the  adjudication  process  is 
reflected  in  our  full  acceptance  of,  adherence  to  and 
respect for the decisions of the Court. In addition, on 
two separate occasions, Malaysia also availed itself, in 
the General Assembly, of the advisory opinion entitled 
Legal  consequences  of  the  construction  of  a  wall  in 
the  occupied  Palestinian  Territory  (A/ES-10/273)  and 
another advisory opinion entitled Legality of the threat 
or use of nuclear weapons (A/51/218, annex).
We  furthermore  regard 
the  Court’s  outreach 
programmes, including its encouragement of visits by 
Member  States,  its  publications  and  its  other  online 
resources, as important tools for raising the awareness 
of the international community with regard to the work 
and function of the International Court of Justice. We 
view the briefings by the President of the Court to the 
General  Assembly  as  important  elements  in  support 
of  our  mutual  commitment  to  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. We therefore reiterate 
our fullest support for the work of the Court.
Mr. Atlassi (Morocco) (spoke in French): Allow me, 
at the outset to thank Judge Ronny Abraham, President 
of the International Court of Justice, for his exhaustive 
report  (A/70/4)  covering  the  Court’s  activities  from 
1 August 2014 through 31 July 2015. I would also like 
to take this opportunity to congratulate the re-elected 
judges,  namely  Judges  Mohamed  Bennouna,  Joan 
Donoghue  and  Kirill  Gevorgian,  along  with  those 
newly  elected  in  the  context  of  renewing  the  Court’s 
composition on 6 November 2014 (see A/69/PV.39).
My delegation associates itself with the statements 
delivered by the representative of the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran,  on  behalf  of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries, and by the representative of South Africa, on 
behalf of the Group of African States (see A/70/PV.47). 
I would like, however, to make several remarks in my 
national capacity.
The International Court of Justice, established by 
the Charter of the United Nations in June 1945, is the 
main  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  The  basic 
texts  of  the  Court  are  therefore  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and its own Statute, which is also part 
of the Charter. As of 31 July 2015, 193 States were party 
to  that  Statute.  Those  States,  in  full  exercise  of  their 
sovereignty,  may  seize  the  Court  with  an  application 
seeking  resolution  of  any  manner  of  dispute,  whether 
bilateral or multilateral, thanks to its character as the 
sole  international  arbiter  with  universal  jurisdiction 
in  both  contentious  cases  and  advisory  proceedings, 
which makes it more accessible and more sought after 
for its opinions on the differences and disputes among 
States.
The disputes that the Court has considered concern, 
among  other  matters,  territorial  and  maritime  issues, 
violations  of  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty, 
genocide,  environmental  damage,  the  preservation  of 
biological resources, the interpretation and application 
of  international  conventions  and  treaties,  and  the 
demand for a ban on nuclear weapons. That variety of 
issues serves to demonstrate the general character of the 
Court’s jurisdiction as the principal judicial organ of the 
United Nations and affirms its universality. Moreover, 
more  than  300  bilateral  and  multilateral  treaties  or 
conventions provide for the Court’s jurisdiction ratione 
materiae  in  resolving  differences  that  concern  the 
implementation or interpretation of those agreements. 
The  Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly,  as 
well as other United Nations organs, are authorized to 
ask the Court for advisory opinions on all legal issues 
pursuant to Article 96, paragraph 1, of the Charter. As 
a result, the International Court of Justice is the judicial 
organ par excellence of the United Nations system.
The  Court  has  an  important  role  to  play  in  the 
promotion  and  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Charter,  in 
particular  Chapter  VI  and  Articles  33  and  94.  It  can 
also play a role in encouraging parties to come to the 
negotiating table and by delivering transactional justice, 
which  offers  parties  an  opportunity  to  resolve  their 
differences on their own. In doing so, the Court renders 
an invaluable service to parties in dispute parties and 
plays an invaluable role as a facilitator of negotiations.
The  impact  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
goes  well  beyond  the  judgments  and  opinions  that  it 
delivers. Indeed, many disputes have found their way to 
resolution simply because one of the parties suggested 
4/27 
15-35224
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.48
having recourse to the Court. That is all the more true 
inasmuch as the Court is an integral part of an overall 
process that seeks the peaceful resolution of disputes, 
on the one hand, and the promotion of the rule of law, on 
the other. Through its decisions and advisory opinions 
the  Court  contributes  to  strengthening  and  clarifying 
international  law  and  to  the  primacy  of  the  law  itself 
in  promoting  peace.  The  Court’s  jurisprudence  has 
broadly  contributed  to  the  gradual  development  of 
the rules of international law. That is particularly true 
inasmuch  as  the  Court  plays  a  key  role  through  its 
mutually beneficial complementarity with the Security 
Council in the maintenance of international peace and 
security. Moreover, its practice shows that some disputes 
submitted  to  the  Court  have  achieved  resolution  not 
through  a  decision  by  the  Court,  but  simply  because 
preliminary  measures  contributed  to  their  resolution. 
In  addition,  the  dissemination  and  publication  of  the 
Court’s  judgments,  advisory  opinions  and  decisions 
contributes  to  promoting  the  values  and  principles  of 
the  peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts  and  of  preventive 
diplomacy.
In conclusion, the Kingdom of Morocco appreciates 
the important role played by the Court in the peaceful 
resolution  of  disputes  and  its  valuable  contribution  to 
reinforcing and implementing the rules of international 
law.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the debate on this item.
May I take it that the General Assembly takes note 
of the report of the International Court of Justice?
It was so decided.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 75?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 78
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (A/70/350)
Reports by the Secretary-General (A/70/317 
and A/70/346)
The President: I welcome to the General Assembly 
Judge  Silvia  Alejandra  Fernández  de  Gurmendi, 
President of the International Criminal Court.
The International Criminal Court was established 
as  an  independent  permanent  international  court  in 
relationship  with  the  United  Nations  system,  with 
jurisdiction  over  the  most  serious  crimes  of  concern 
to  the  international  community  as  a  whole,  with  a 
view to ending impunity for the perpetrators of those 
crimes. The Court is the leading international reference 
for  justice  with  regard  to  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity and war crimes, and is a fundamental actor 
in  efforts  to  deter  future  atrocities.  The  International 
Criminal  Court  represents  a  voluntary  gathering  of 
nations in a mosaic of values and aspirations for a more 
secure world on the path towards ending impunity.
It is now my honour to invite Judge Fernández de 
Gurmendi to take the floor.
Ms.  Fernández  de  Gurmendi  (International 
Criminal Court) (spoke in Spanish): It is a great honour 
to present to the General Assembly the eleventh annual 
report  (see  A/70/350)  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court (ICC).
This  is  the  first  time  that  I  appear  before  the 
Assembly  in  my  capacity  of  President  of  the  Court, 
but  it  is  not  my  first  time  in  the  Hall.  As  a  former 
representative of my country to the United Nations, I am 
very familiar with, and immensely appreciative of, the 
important work that goes on in the General Assembly 
and  its  Main  Committees.  I  also  had  the  privilege  of 
participating  directly  in  the  negotiation  of  the  Rome 
Statute  under  the  auspices  of  the  Organization.  The 
support  of  the  United  Nations  was,  and  continues  to 
be, extremely important for the International Criminal 
Court.
The  Rome  Statute  reaffirms  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
establishment  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
was based primarily on the recognition that atrocious 
crimes  that  offend  the  international  community  as 
a  whole  threatened  international  peace  and  security 
and  undermined  the  essential  values  that  the  United 
Nations  endeavours  to  promote.  Through  the  Statute 
of the International Criminal Court, States reaffirmed 
the primary responsibility of national jurisdictions for 
investigating and prosecuting such crimes. However, in 
establishing the Court, States also recognized that there 
are  times  when  domestic  courts  alone,  for  a  variety 
reasons,  cannot  cope.  The  International  Criminal 
Court  is  complementary  to  national  systems  in  such 
situations,  with  the  goal  of  avoiding  impunity  for  the 
15-35224
5/27
A/70/PV.48 
05/11/2015
most  serious  crimes,  as  well  as  contributing  to  their 
prevention. The creation of a permanent International 
Criminal Court to judge such crimes brought to fruition 
a  long-standing  aspiration,  and  its  establishment  was 
not  an  easy  process.  It  required  enormous  diplomatic 
and  technical  efforts  to  achieve  broad  agreement  on 
the Court’s jurisdiction, its substantive and procedural 
legal  framework  and  its  cooperation  and  enforcement 
regime.  Today,  there  is  a  widespread  expectation  that 
atrocious  crimes  must  not  go  unpunished,  and  the 
Court has a central role in upholding that expectation 
of the international community and the hope of victims 
all over the world.
Against that background, I can assure the Assembly 
that, as President of the International Criminal Court, 
I  recognize  the  enormous  responsibility  that  rests  on 
the  Court.  The  Court  must  fulfil  its  mandate,  but  it 
is  clear  that  it  cannot  meet  those  expectations  alone. 
The  Court  relies  heavily  on  the  cooperation  of  States 
and  organizations  at  every  step  of  the  process,  from 
investigation to arrests and from witness protection to 
the enforcement of sentences. However, just as the Court 
expects cooperation from the international community, 
we recognize that the Court is expected to do its part 
efficiently,  by  providing  high  quality  justice  in  a 
timely manner. For that reason, I have made it the main 
priority  of  my  mandate  to  enhance  the  effectiveness 
and efficiency of the International Criminal Court. All 
organs of the Court are actively engaged in important 
reforms  with  that  goal  in  mind.  Over  recent  months 
the  judges  in  particular  have  made  unprecedented 
collective  efforts  to  expedite  the  criminal  process  by 
adopting best practices and revising working methods. 
It  is  important  to  note  that  those  efforts  have  already 
yielded very positive results. As President, I intend to 
deploy  all  available  efforts  to  complete  all  necessary 
reforms.
(spoke in English)
Let me now provide a concise update on the Court’s 
judicial developments. More details can be found in the 
written report that members have before them.
We reached several milestones during the past year. 
The Court issued its first two final appeals judgments 
on  the  merits,  as  well  as  the  first  appeals  judgments 
on  sentencing  and  reparations.  Two  new  trials  have 
recently  commenced  hearings  of  evidence  before  the 
Court,  and  a  third  trial  is  due  to  commence  early  in 
2016. Together with one existing trial, that means that 
in 
next year we expect to have up to four trials running 
at once, involving a total of 10 accused persons — the 
Court’s busiest year so far in terms of trial proceedings.
In  addition  to  those  cases,  two  further  suspects 
were  transferred  to  the  ICC  this  year.  Mr.  Dominic 
Ongwen,  an  alleged  brigade  commander 
the 
Lord’s  Resistance  Army  in  Uganda,  was  transferred 
to  the  Court  almost  10  years  after  the  arrest  warrant 
against him was originally issued. And more recently, 
Mr.  Ahmad  Al-Faqi  Al-Mahdi  was  surrendered  to 
the  Court  on  charges  of  war  crimes  regarding  the 
destruction  of  historical  and  religious  monuments 
in  Timbuktu.  Pre-trial  proceedings  in  both  cases  are 
currently  under  way.  In  that  connection,  it  is  helpful 
that we will be moving into the ICC’s new permanent 
premises next month, which will provide more capacity 
for handling the Court’s growing caseload, as well as 
better facilities for public access.
to  open  an 
In  September  2014,  the  Prosecutor  opened  her 
ninth  investigation,  following  a  second  referral  from 
the  Central  African  Republic,  this  time  with  respect 
to  crimes  allegedly  committed  on  its  territory  since 
2012.  The  Prosecutor  also  recently  requested  judicial 
authorization 
the 
situation  in  Georgia,  covering  the  period  from  1  July 
to 10 October 2008, for war crimes and crimes against 
humanity  allegedly  committed  in  and  around  South 
Ossetia.  That  matter  is  currently  before  the  Pre-Trial 
Chamber, which will consider whether or not there are 
reasonable grounds to proceed with an investigation in 
accordance with the Statute.
investigation 
into 
During  the  past  year,  the  ICC  reached  some 
important  milestones  in  the  implementation  of  its 
unique reparations mandate, which gives unprecedented 
attention  to  the  rights  of  the  victims  of  international 
crimes.  The  first  appeals  judgment  on  reparations, 
in  the  case  of  Mr.  Thomas  Lubanga,  provided  more 
clarity  on  the  principles  to  be  applied  to  reparations 
cases under the Rome Statute and, in the circumstances 
of  this  particular  case,  instructed  the  Trust  Fund  for 
Victims  associated  with  the  Court  to  produce  a  draft 
implementation  plan  for  collective  reparations  in 
accordance with the Trust Fund’s mandate. The Trust 
Fund  filed  its  draft  implementation  plan  earlier  this 
week, and the matter is now in the hands of the Trial 
Chamber. Reparations proceedings are also under way 
in the case of Mr. Germain Katanga, whose conviction 
for crimes against humanity and war crimes committed 
6/27 
15-35224
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.48
in the Ituri district of the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo became final last year.
Regarding  other  activities  during  the  reporting 
period,  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims  has  been  actively 
carrying  out  its  assistance  mandate.  Psychological, 
physical  and  material  support  remains  central  in 
responding to the needs of victims under the jurisdiction 
of the ICC. The Trust Fund, in conjunction with locally 
based  partners  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo and Uganda, has assisted a total of over 50,000 
beneficiaries of psychological rehabilitation, over 1,300 
beneficiaries of physical rehabilitation and over 2,500 
beneficiaries  of  material  support.  The  Trust  Fund’s 
assistance programme integrates several cross-cutting 
themes, such as supporting the advancement of women’s 
rights,  restoring  the  dignity  of  victims,  promoting 
peacebuilding,  supporting 
the  rights  of  children 
affected  by  armed  conflict,  mobilizing  communities, 
managing  crises  and  addressing  the  impact  of  sexual 
and  gender-based  violence.  The  ability  of  the  Trust 
Fund  for  Victims  to  provide  general  assistance  and 
to  supplement  reparations,  where  necessary,  depends 
entirely  upon  donations  and  the  generous  voluntary 
contributions of States. I would like to warmly thank 
those States that have supported the ICC’s Trust Fund 
for Victims to date, and encourage others to consider 
doing  so,  in  the  interests  of  the  victims  and  their 
affected communities.
the 
In  recognition  of 
important  relationship 
between  the  ICC  and  the  United  Nations,  the  Court’s 
report  addresses  at  greater  length  than  before  the 
various  aspects  of 
the  cooperation  between  our 
organizations.  It  ranges  from  logistical  assistance  in 
the field to administrative and personnel arrangements, 
judicial assistance and the provision of services such as 
those relating to security, satellite communications and 
the use of conference facilities. In accordance with the 
relationship agreement between the United Nations and 
the International Criminal Court, the Court reimburses 
the  Organization  for  the  assistance  that  it  receives. 
Cooperation also works in the other direction, and the 
Court has on occasion provided logistical and security 
support to the United Nations.
In  summary,  the  relationship  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Court  is  doing  well,  and  the  Court 
is  very  grateful  for  the  support  it  receives.  I  would 
like  to  emphasize  that  the  cooperation  of  the  United 
Nations,  as  well  as  the  cooperation  of  its  funds, 
programmes  and  specialized  agencies,  is  important 
to  the  Court’s  activities.  Nonetheless,  there  are  some 
ongoing challenges. One is the continuing lack of full 
cooperation  in  relation  to  the  two  situations  that  the 
Security  Council  referred  to  the  Prosecutor,  namely, 
Darfur and Libya. During the reporting period, the Court 
made three judicial findings of non-cooperation — two 
with respect to the Sudan and one with respect to Libya. 
That brings to 11 the total number of non-cooperation 
findings referred to the Council. For the Court to be able 
to  effectively  discharge  its  mandate,  full  compliance 
with  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  is 
required. The Court alone is not in a position to secure 
that  compliance,  so  we  look  to  the  Council  for  active 
support in that regard.
(spoke in French)
In  addition  to  the  important  relationship  with  the 
United Nations, the Court has continued to develop its 
interaction  and  cooperation  with  other  international 
and regional organizations, institutions and entities, as 
well as with States in all parts of the world. The Court 
has cooperation agreements with the European Union, 
the Organization of American States, the African-Asian 
Legal Consultative Organization, the Commonwealth, 
the  International  Organization  of  La  Francophonie, 
and  the  Parliament  of  Southern  Common  Market, 
among  others.  We  continue  to  engage  with  various 
regional  organizations  in  order  to  foster  support  for 
our  activities.  Just  two  weeks  ago,  the  Court  and  the 
African Union held a joint technical seminar at African 
Union  headquarters  in  Addis  Ababa  —  the  fourth  in 
a  series  of  seminars  that  started  in  2011.  We  are  also 
deeply  grateful  for  the  excellent  cooperation  that  we 
have received from States in all regions of the world. 
To further enhance that vital relationship, we have held 
cooperation seminars in various regions, with the kind 
assistance  of  donors,  and  look  forward  to  continuing 
that practice.
It has been an eventful year in terms of institutional 
developments at the ICC. Six new judges were elected 
to  the  Court  in  December  2014,  and  sworn  in  on 
10  March  2015.  Their  contributions  have  already 
been  outstanding,  and  I  am  sure  that  they  will  serve 
the  Court  well  during  their  nine-year  mandate.  The 
Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute elected 
Mr. Sidiki Kaba, Minister of Justice of Senegal, as the 
new  President  of  the  Assembly  for  a  three-year  term. 
Minister Kaba enjoys the full support of the Court in 
the important role that he has assumed at the helm of 
the Court’s parent body.
15-35224
7/27
A/70/PV.48 
05/11/2015
Since  the  Court’s  previous  report  to  the  United 
Nations  (see  A/69/321),  the  number  of  States  parties 
to  the  Rome  Statute  has  increased  to  123,  with  the 
accession of the State of Palestine on 2 January 2015. 
There  have  also  been  several  new  ratifications  of  the 
amendments to the Rome Statute adopted at the Review 
Conference  in  Kampala  in  2010.  To  date,  a  total  of 
26  States  have  ratified  the  amendments  to  article  8, 
concerning the use of poison weapons and expanding 
bullets  in  non-international  armed  conflicts,  and  24 
States  have  ratified  the  amendments  on  the  crime  of 
aggression.  In  addition,  two  States  —  Senegal  and 
the  State  of  Palestine  —  have  ratified  the  Agreement 
on  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  bringing  the  total  number  of  parties 
to the Agreement to 74. I encourage all the remaining 
States  parties  and  other  interested  States  to  consider 
ratifying the Agreement.
As a judicial institution, the International Criminal 
Court  is  a  distinct  kind  of  international  organization. 
The  Rome  Statute  explicitly  requires  the  judges  to 
be  independent  in  the  performance  of  their  functions 
and  requires  the  Prosecutor  and  her  staff  not  to  seek 
or  act  on  instructions  from  any  external  source.  The 
independence  of  judicial  and  prosecutorial  functions 
from  external  influence  is  essential  for  ensuring  the 
Court’s  identity  and  the  achievement  of  its  goals. 
Without independence, the Court’s whole raison d’être 
is compromised. That independence does not, however, 
mean  unfettered  freedom.  At  all  times,  the  Court’s 
activities  are  defined  by  the  legal  framework  within 
which it operates.
The Rome Statute is the Court’s constitution. It sets 
the limits of what we can and cannot do. The Court is 
accountable  to  States  parties,  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties  and  the  international  community  at  large.  But 
when it comes to the Court’s judicial and prosecutorial 
functions, 
independence  must  be  maintained. 
The  Court  must  act  within  its  legal  framework  and 
cannot  step  outside  its  legal  boundaries  in  order  to 
accommodate political objectives.
its 
Joining  the  Rome  Statute  is  a  sovereign  decision 
for each State to make. I know that 72 Member States 
among those seated in this Hall have so far not decided 
to  take  that  step.  I  would  like  to  recall  that  they  can 
nonetheless contribute to the work of the Court and the 
broader Rome Statute system. Indeed, non-party States 
can provide us with valuable cooperation and regularly 
attend meetings of the Assembly of States parties in an 
observer capacity. I know that many of the non-party 
States  are  actively  contemplating  ratification  or 
accession to the Rome Statute and are making concrete 
efforts towards that goal. I hope to welcome many of 
them to the International Criminal Court family during 
my  term  as  President.  Only  with  global  participation 
can the Court be fully effective in intervening whenever 
core international crimes are committed with impunity. 
Our deterrent effect equally depends on the competence 
of our jurisdiction.
As I mentioned earlier, before the end of the year, 
the Court will move to its new permanent premises in 
The  Hague.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
extend  an  invitation  to  all  members  of  the  Assembly 
to visit us there. Our doors are open to everyone. Let 
us  cooperate  towards  the  attainment  of  our  shared 
objectives, namely, the rule of law, peace, security and 
prevention.
The  President:  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
International Criminal Court for her briefing.
I now give the floor to the observer of the European 
Union.
Mr. Marhic (European Union) (spoke in French): 
I have the honour to speak on behalf of the European 
Union and its member States. The candidate countries 
of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Serbia 
and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association process Bosnia and Herzegovina; and the 
potential candidate countries the Republic of Moldova 
and Georgia, align themselves with this statement.
At  the  outset,  we  wish  to  congratulate  President 
Fernández de Gurmendi on her election and to thank her 
for  her  presence  in  New  York  and  her  comprehensive 
briefing.  We  also  thank  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  for  its  annual  report  (see  A/70/350)  to 
the  United  Nations,  which  covers  the  period  from 
1 August 2014 to 31 July 2015 and provides details on 
what  is  described  as  a  new  year  marked  by  a  heavy 
workload  for  the  ICC.  We  are  staunch  supporters  of 
the International Criminal Court, and our strong policy 
in that regard has a firm institutional foundation in a 
detailed 12 July 2011 European Council decision on the 
International  Criminal  Court  and  a  2011  action  plan 
on  implementation,  which  is  adapted  to  the  evolving 
activities of the Court.
We  acknowledge  from  this  year’s  report  that, 
with  21  cases  in  eight  situations  at  different  stages 
8/27 
15-35224
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.48
investigation  by 
of  procedure,  with  10  situations  under  preliminary 
examination  and  one  new 
the 
Prosecutor,  the  ICC  is  facing  an  increased  workload. 
We also note the important legal developments during 
the  period  —  the  transfer  of  Mr.  Dominic  Ongwen 
and  his  initial  Court  appearance  in  January  2015;  the 
decisions on the Court’s first two appeals for judgment 
on the merits relating to the situation in the Democratic 
Republic  of  Congo,  in  December  2014  and  February 
2015,  respectively;  and  the  confirmation  of  charges 
against Mr. Charles Blé Goudé in December 2014. With 
regard to the situation in Mali, we welcome the fact that 
the Office of the Prosecutor has paid special attention 
to  allegations  related  to  the  attacks  directed  against 
historic monuments, notably those inscribed on the list 
of  World  Heritage  sites.  We  note,  in  that  regard,  that 
on 30 September 2015, Mr. Ahmad Al Faqi Al Mandi 
appeared before the ICC on charges related to attacks 
against such buildings.
The latest report of the ICC describes the efforts that 
the Court has made to fulfil its mandate, the positive 
developments  and  the  challenges  it  faces.  Looking  to 
next  year,  we  note  that  an  unprecedented  number  of 
four trials will be held simultaneously, covering trials 
that focus on allegations of crimes involving more than 
10,000 victims. The Court thus continues to give hope to 
the victims of the most grievous crimes. We emphasize 
that the participation of victims and the reparations for 
victims are key components of the ICC’s legal system.
In the context of the increasing workload of the ICC, 
we stress the importance of a truly efficient and effective 
functioning of the Court. While the proceedings before 
the Court must be fair and must be implemented in full 
compliance  with  the  highest  standards  of  justice,  the 
Court’s activities must be based on financial analyses 
and meticulous budgeting processes.
The universality of the Rome Statute continues to 
present one of the main challenges facing the ICC, as 
universality is essential so as to ensure accountability 
for  the  most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to  the  entire 
international  community.  The  perpetrators  of  such 
crimes,  regardless  of  their  status,  must  be  held 
accountable  for  their  actions.  A  key  element  in  the 
Rome  Statute  is  that  it  applies  equally  to  all  persons, 
without any distinction based on official capacity. We 
must  continue  to  work  tirelessly  to  make  the  Rome 
Statute truly universal.
On 1 April 2015 we saw the Palestinian accession 
to the Rome Statute of the ICC, and we took note of the 
decision  of  the  ICC  Prosecutor  to  open  a  preliminary 
examination  of  the  situation  in  Palestine.  There 
were  two  additional  accessions  to  the  Agreement  on 
the  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  six  States  ratified  the  amendment  to 
article 8 of the Rome Statute and eight States ratified or 
accepted the amendments to the Statute on the crime of 
aggression, including the following European member 
States: the Czech Republic, Latvia, Malta, Poland and 
Spain. We also note the declaration lodged by Ukraine 
under article 12, paragraph 3, of the Rome Statute, on 
8 September, accepting the jurisdiction of the Court for 
an  indefinite  duration,  which  represents  an  important 
step towards universality.
During  the  reporting  period,  we  continued  to 
engage  in  promoting  the  universality  of  the  Rome 
Statute and in increasing participation in the Agreement 
on the Privileges and Immunities of the Court, as well 
as  promoting  a  better  understanding  of  the  Court’s 
mandate  through  démarches  and  dialogues  with  third 
States and international organizations, the organization 
of dedicated local or regional seminars, the systematic 
inclusion  of  an  ICC  clause  into  agreements  with 
third  countries  and  financial  support  to  civil-society 
organizations.
The primary responsibility for bringing offenders 
to  justice  lies  with  States  themselves,  in  conformity 
with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute. 
Complementarity  is  a  core  principle  in  the  Rome 
Statute. In order to make it operational, all States parties 
need to prepare and adopt effective national legislation 
to  implement  the  Rome  Statute  in  national  systems. 
Through  various  assistance  instruments  and  projects, 
we support initiatives that focus on encouraging States 
to cooperate in the fight against impunity for atrocity 
crimes. We welcome the positive dynamic in terms of 
complementarity regarding the situation in Guinea, as 
described in the report. We commend in particular the 
fact that the quality and pace of national proceedings 
increased  significantly  during  the  reporting  period, 
owing to the efforts of the Office of the Prosecutor, the 
United Nations system, civil society and the Guinean 
authorities.
Another  continuing  fundamental  challenge  lies 
in  the  necessity  of  ensuring  cooperation  with  the 
ICC,  and  in  particular  how  to  react  to  instances  of 
non-cooperation by States that are thereby in violation 
15-35224
9/27
A/70/PV.48 
05/11/2015
of their obligations with regard to the ICC. Cooperation 
with the Court and the enforcement of its decisions are 
equally essential if the Court is to be able to carry out 
its  mandate.  That  applies  to  all  States  parties  to  the 
Rome  Statute,  as  well  as  when  the  Security  Council 
has referred a situation to the Court in accordance with 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
We note with concern that a certain number of arrest 
warrants issued by the Court remain outstanding — some 
since  2005.  We  recall  that  non-cooperation  with  the 
Court  with  regard  to  the  execution  of  arrest  warrants 
constitutes a violation of international obligations and 
stifles  the  Court’s  ability  to  deliver  justice.  We  call 
upon all States to take consistent actions to encourage 
appropriate  and  full  cooperation  with  the  Court, 
including  the  prompt  execution  of  arrest  warrants. 
We also reiterate the critical importance for all States 
of  refraining  from  helping  to  shelter  or  hide  the 
perpetrators of the most serious crimes and of taking 
the necessary steps to bring those perpetrators to justice 
in order to end impunity.
We  welcome  the  actions  undertaken  by  States, 
international organizations and civil society to increase 
their cooperation with, and assistance to, the ICC. We 
welcome  in  particular  the  cooperation  of  the  United 
Nations  with  the  Court,  at  Headquarters,  at  the  level 
of United Nations specialized agencies and at the field-
missions level, which is described in the report. We note 
with  appreciation  the  fact  that  the  Rule  of  Law  Unit 
of  the  Secretariat,  the  Office  of  the  Rule  of  Law  and 
Security Institutions and the rule of law components of 
peacekeeping missions have proven useful in promoting 
international  justice,  in  particular  in  countries  in 
which the Court has been active. We acknowledge the 
recommendations in the report for mainstreaming the 
Court  in  the  United  Nations  system,  in  particular  the 
fact that the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution 70/1) could provide an important platform for 
strengthening national jurisdictions. We also note that 
the Court continues to welcome the updated guidelines 
of the Secretary-General on contacts with persons who 
are the subjects of arrest warrants or summonses issued 
by the Court.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States,  for 
their part, are committed to pursuing their efforts in the 
area of the fight against impunity, including by giving 
the Court their full diplomatic support.
Our common goal continues to be the same: to further 
strengthen  the  Court  so  that  it  can  fulfil  its  mandate 
effectively.  There  are  States  parties  to  the  ICC  in  all 
parts of the world, and all States parties share a feeling 
of  ownership  of  the  Rome  Statute.  We  will  continue 
to encourage the broadest possible participation in the 
Rome Statute, and we are determined to safeguard the 
integrity  of  the  Statute,  support  the  independence  of 
the  Court  and  ensure  cooperation  with  the  it.  We  are 
also committed to fully implementing the principle of 
complementarity,  enshrined  in  the  Rome  Statute,  by 
facilitating effective and efficient interaction between 
national justice systems and the ICC in the fight against 
impunity.
Ms.  Aching  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  I  have  the 
honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
14  member  States  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM).
CARICOM wishes to congratulate the President of 
the International Criminal Court (ICC) on her election. 
We also take this opportunity to reiterate our steadfast 
commitment to cooperating with all the organs of the 
Court  as  they  seek  to  fulfil  the  mandate  of  the  ICC 
and  improve  its  effectiveness  and  efficiency.  We  also 
express  our  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
the reports and the note on the International Criminal 
Court contained in documents A/70/346, A/70/317 and 
A/70/350, respectively.
We  wish  to  express  our  unwavering  commitment 
to  the  ICC  based  on  its  primary  objectives,  namely, 
to help put an end to impunity for perpetrators of the 
most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to  the  international 
community,  to  contribute  to  the  prevention  of  the 
atrocious  crimes  listed  under  article  5  of  the  Rome 
Statute  and  to  ensure  that  the  perpetrators  of  the 
most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to  the  international 
community  are  brought  to  justice,  thereby  preventing 
impunity.
CARICOM recognizes the importance of the ICC 
in  promoting  the  rule  of  law,  encouraging  respect  for 
human rights and achieving sustainable peace and the 
further  development  of  nations,  in  accordance  with 
international  law  and  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  CARICOM  agrees 
that  the  success  of  the  Court  is  intrinsically  linked 
to  the  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute.  We  believe 
that,  through  increased  cooperation,  the  Court  would 
be  better  able  to  effectively  discharge  the  mandate 
10/27 
15-35224
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.48
entrusted  to  it  by  States  parties.  To  that  end,  we 
reiterate our commitment to promoting the universality 
of the Rome Statute. In addition, we urge all States that 
have not yet done so to ratify and fully implement the 
Rome Statute of the ICC with a view to promoting its 
universality.
We  also  welcome  the  number  of  ratifications  of 
the  Rome  Statute  and  the  Kampala  amendments.  We 
remain optimistic that the required 30 ratifications will 
be achieved before 2017 so as to facilitate the entry into 
force of the Kampala amendments, which would enable 
the Court to exercise its jurisdiction over the crime of 
aggression.  We  also  recognize  the  most  recent  States 
parties  to  accede  to  the  Agreement  on  the  Privileges 
and Immunities of the ICC.
Mr. Gumende (Mozambique), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
Cooperation  with  the  Court  remains  at  the  centre 
of the Rome Statute and falls not only to States parties 
but also to all States Members of the United Nations, 
especially  when  referrals  by  the  Security  Council  are 
involved. Those who argue in some quarters that the ICC 
is an obstacle to achieving lasting peace and security 
must be reminded that, consistent with the doctrine of 
complementarity  enshrined  in  the  Rome  Statute,  the 
jurisdiction of the ICC is invoked only when States are 
unable or unwilling to prosecute those individuals who 
are accused of perpetrating the most severe crimes of 
concern to the international community. In other words, 
no individual or State should fear the ICC, because it is 
a court of last resort.
CARICOM remains concerned about the failure of 
some States to honour their legally binding obligations 
to  cooperate  with  the  Court  in  the  execution  of 
outstanding arrest warrants aimed at bringing to justice 
those  who  have  committed  the  most  severe  crimes  of 
concern  to  the  international  community.  We  wish  to 
underline  that  those  who  fail  to  cooperate  with  the 
Court  are  contributing  to  impunity,  which  not  only 
undermines  the  rule  of  law  but  also  constitutes  an 
affront to the victims of grave crimes.
CARICOM  remains  deeply  concerned  that,  while 
the workload of the Court increased significantly over 
the  past  year,  a  similar  increase  in  resources  has  not 
been  observed.  The  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
makes it clear that 2016 will be the busiest year in the 
history  of  the  Court,  with  an  unprecedented  number 
of  four  cases  taking  place  simultaneously,  covering 
alleged crimes involving more than 10,000 victims. We 
therefore reiterate our call for the ICC to be provided 
with  the  necessary  resources  to  properly  execute  its 
mandate.
CARICOM  urges  those  States  that  have  not  yet 
done  so  to  pay  their  outstanding  contributions  in 
order  to  ensure  that  the  Court  is  able  to  carry  out  its 
responsibilities in an effective and efficient manner. We 
also encourage States to make voluntary contributions 
to the Trust Fund for Victims, with a view to ensuring 
that  victims  are  provided  with  adequate  reparations. 
Further, in accordance with Article 115, sub-paragraph 
b, of the Rome Statute of the ICC and the relationship 
agreement  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC, 
CARICOM stresses that funds for expenses associated 
with  referrals  by  the  Security  Council  should  be 
provided by the United Nations. We therefore reiterate 
our call for the United Nations to honour its obligations 
to  meet  the  costs  associated  with  Security  Council 
referrals to the ICC.
CARICOM  also  underscores  the  importance  of 
proper  follow-up  by  the  Security  Council  to  ensure 
cooperation, in particular with regard to the arrest and 
surrender  of  individuals,  as  without  that  cooperation 
justice will not prevail. We fully agree with the mention 
in the report of the Secretary-General that a perception 
of inactivity by the Council in terms of taking further 
measures to ensure that appropriate cases be brought to 
court could risk undermining the credibility of both the 
Court and the Council.
CARICOM 
takes  note  of 
the  preliminary 
examinations undertaken by the Office of the Prosecutor 
on  situations  in  various  parts  of  the  world  and  the 
conclusion  of  preliminary  examinations  elsewhere. 
We  also  acknowledge  the  fact  that  investigations  and 
judicial  proceedings  are  ongoing  in  eight  States.  We 
also commend the Prosecutor for seeking to discharge 
her mandate in a manner consistent with the provisions 
of the Rome Statute of the ICC.
remains 
to 
CARICOM 
fully  committed 
the 
progressive  development  of  the  relationship  between 
the United Nations and the ICC as part of our overall 
support for the maintenance of an international regime 
based  on  respect  for  the  inalienable  human  rights  of 
individuals, respect for the territorial integrity of States 
and  the  need  to  bring  to  justice  those  who  commit 
serious breaches of the provisions of the Rome Statute 
15-35224
11/27
A/70/PV.48 
05/11/2015
and other laws, which, in our view, represent customary 
international law.
to hold perpetrators of mass crimes accountable and to 
ensure justice for victims.
In  conclusion,  CARICOM  once  more  reiterates 
its  steadfast  support  for  the  Court  as  it  continues  to 
discharge its sacred mandate.
Ms. Lehto (Finland): I have the honour to speak on 
behalf of the five Nordic countries, namely, Denmark, 
Iceland, Norway, Sweden and my own country, Finland.
I would like to start by thanking the International 
Criminal Court (ICC) for its annual report to the United 
Nations  (see  A/70/350).  I  would  also  like  to  thank 
Judge  Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  President  of  the  ICC, 
for personally giving us a thorough presentation of the 
main issues contained in the report.
The  Nordic  countries  would  like  to  express  their 
sincere  appreciation  to  the  Court  for  its  significant 
contribution  to  the  fight  against  impunity  worldwide. 
From the report and President Fernández de Gurmendi’s 
introduction, it is clear that the caseload of the Court 
has continued to increase.
conducted 
preliminary 
During  the  reporting  period,  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor 
examination 
activities in 10 situations, in Asia, Africa, the Middle 
East,  Europe  and  Latin  America.  Investigations  by 
the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  now  number  eight,  with 
the  opening  of  a  new  investigation  in  the  situation  of 
Central African Republic. We also note that the Office 
of  the  Prosecutor  recently  requested  authorization  to 
open  a  ninth  investigation,  in  Georgia.  In  total,  the 
Court  is  now  seized  of  23  cases  in  nine  situations. 
Those numbers are unprecedented in the history of the 
Court. The activities of the Court are becoming truly 
worldwide. We commend the President, the Prosecutor 
and  the  entire  Court  for  the  dedicated  and  highly 
professional manner in which they carry out their work.
The  Court  is  the  most  important  international 
actor  in  efforts  to  fight  impunity  and  in  developing 
international criminal law. We stress the importance of 
strong cooperation by States in order for the Court to 
be truly able to carry out its task in the most effective 
way. Only in that way is it possible for the international 
community and the Court to pursue the aim of ending 
impunity  for  past  crimes  and  preventing  future  ones 
from taking place. Both the Court and the States parties 
are  part  of  the  Rome  Statute  system  of  international 
criminal 
the  principles  of 
complementarity, cooperation and shared responsibility 
justice,  built  upon 
It  is  a  cause  for  concern  that  the  number  of 
outstanding arrest warrants remains high. States parties 
have  a  legal  obligation  under  the  Rome  Statute  to 
cooperate fully with the Court. In addition, we strongly 
urge all States to strengthen their efforts to cooperate 
fully  and  effectively  with  the  Court,  in  line  with  any 
applicable  Security  Council  resolutions.  States  have 
the primary responsibility to investigate and prosecute 
crimes, as the ICC is a court of last resort. We must, 
however, acknowledge that many States affected by such 
complex  and  large-scale  crimes  as  genocide,  crimes 
against  humanity  and  war  crimes  lack  the  resources, 
capacity  or  motivation 
investigations 
and  conduct  appropriate  criminal  proceedings.  The 
Nordic  countries  are  prepared  to  assist  States  parties 
that  are  willing  to  strengthen  their  national  legal 
capacities  in  that  area.  In  that  context,  we  highlight 
the  complementarity  programme  of  the  Justice  Rapid 
Response  facility,  which  offers  assistance,  mentoring 
and modelling to States that are willing to investigate 
conflict-related international crimes.
initiate 
to 
We  welcome  the  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  ICC,  as  described  in  the  report.  We 
note, however, that greater support to the Court on the 
part of the Security Council is still needed. That is true 
in particular in cases of non-cooperation with the Court 
and  where  there  is  a  need  for  more  effective  follow-
up  of  cases  referred  to  it  from  the  Security  Council. 
While  respecting  the  independence  and  integrity  of 
the  Court,  the  Security  Council  must  play  its  part  in 
ensuring  accountability  when  gross  violations  and 
abuses  of  international  humanitarian  law  and  human 
rights law have occurred in any part of the world, as is 
most acutely now the case in Syria. We strongly appeal 
to the Security Council to refer the Syrian situation to 
the ICC. We also call upon Iraq to accede to the Rome 
Statute as a matter of priority. Persons responsible for 
war  crimes  and  other  serious  international  crimes  in 
the region must be held accountable.
In  order  for  the  Court  to  be  able  to  carry  out  its 
task in the most efficient way, it needs to be properly 
funded.  The  Court’s  budget  will  be  dealt  with  in  the 
Assembly of the State Parties later this month, but we 
wish to underline the global activities of the Court. They 
are  reflected  in  the  Court’s  report.  It  is  our  common 
responsibility  to  ensure  that  the  Court  has  sufficient 
resources to carry out its important mandate in a time 
12/27 
15-35224
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.48
of  ever-increasing  demand.  The  Court’s  budget  needs 
to reflect adequately its increased caseload.
Victims  are,  and  should  be,  at  the  core  of  the 
Court’s  concern  in  its  operations;  they  are  a  priority 
for  the  Nordic  countries.  We  especially  commend  the 
efforts of the Court, in cooperation with States and the 
United  Nations,  to  strengthen  international  capacities 
to  investigate  and  prosecute  sexual  and  gender-based 
crimes in order to bring justice to the victims of those 
atrocious  crimes.  The  surge  in  examinations  and 
investigations is likely to increase the need to mobilize 
more resources to help victims, and we encourage States 
to contribute to the ICC’s Trust Fund for Victims. We 
also  encourage  the  mobilization  of  private  resources 
through  public-private  partnerships.  We  believe 
that  that  source  of  funding  is  likely  to  become  even 
more  important  in  the  future,  considering  the  current 
economic outlook in many countries.
The full realization of victims’ rights to reparations 
and their procedural rights are an important aspect of 
the  continuing  success  and  relevance  of  the  Court. 
We  commend  the  important  work  of  the  Trust  Fund 
in the various assistance projects for victims and their 
families in the field. We also note the work being done 
by  the  Trust  Fund  in  relation  to  the  first-ever  draft 
implementation plan for reparations for victims, which 
will be an important milestone for the Court.
Let  me  conclude  by  renewing  our  pledge  that  the 
Nordic countries will remain staunch supporters of the 
Court. We are committed to continuing our support to 
the Court’s independence and integrity.
Mr.  Zellweger  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 
At  the  outset,  I  want  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) for her report (see 
A/70/350),  which  has  provided  us  with  an  excellent 
basis for discussion today.
Recently,  many  States  have  expressed 
their 
commitment  to  the  role  played  by  the  International 
Criminal Court in combating impunity. Mali has asked 
the  ICC  to  investigate  the  destruction  of  religious 
structures,  and  the  Niger  handed  over  a  suspect 
implicated  in  the  same  affair.  The  Central  African 
Republic  has  encouraged  the  ICC  to  examine  crimes 
recently  committed  within  its  territory.  Ukraine  has 
allowed the Court to expand the scope of its preliminary 
examination.  And  Palestine  has  ratified  the  Rome 
Statute, bringing the number of States parties to 123, or 
two thirds of all States in the world.
the  Court 
throughout 
to  situations 
The  ICC  itself  is  making  every  effort  to  combat 
impunity.  Currently, 
is  undertaking 
preliminary  examinations,  investigations  and  judicial 
proceedings  relating 
the 
world:  in  Afghanistan,  the  Central  African  Republic, 
Colombia,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the Congo, Georgia, Guinea, Iraq, Kenya, Libya, Mali, 
Nigeria, Uganda, Palestine, the Sudan and Ukraine. The 
Court has also issued important preventive statements, 
as  was  the  case  during  the  tensions  that  arose  during 
elections in Burundi. Moreover, the ICC is examining 
hundreds  of  communications  concerning  numerous 
other places throughout the world.
What  can  we  conclude  from  the  those  facts?  It 
is  clear  that  the  mission  of  the  ICC  and  the  support 
it  provides  are  of  a  global  scale.  While  some  accuse 
the ICC of being a political tool directed against high-
ranking  officials,  it  is  in  fact  an  independent  judicial 
institution  serving  thousands  of  victims.  For  that 
reason, the Court requires and deserves our support.
Recently,  there  have  been  repeated  discussions 
of  whether  it  would  be  appropriate  to  establish  ad 
hoc  international  tribunals  when  States  have  neither 
the  will  nor  capacity  to  prosecute  the  perpetrators  of 
international crimes. That may be an option when the 
ICC  has  no  jurisdiction  ratione  temporis,  as  would 
have been the case for the crimes committed in Chad 
in  the  1980s.  In  other  situations,  recourse  to  the  ICC 
is an obvious solution because of its established legal 
framework,  fully  funded  budget  and  highly  qualified 
personnel. The decision to establish an international ad 
hoc  tribunal  because  it  is  politically  more  convenient 
in the short-term will prove to be unsatisfactory in the 
longer term. However, even when the ICC is resorted to, 
it will be able to try only perpetrators who bear primary 
responsibility.  Therefore,  the  creation  of  specialized 
national  courts  to  hear  crimes  not  dealt  with  by  the 
ICC,  as  in  the  case  of  the  Central  African  Republic, 
is to be welcomed. It breathes life into the principle of 
complementarity and allows for justice to be accorded 
to victims.
I would now like to address the issue of cooperation 
between the ICC and the United Nations. As the report 
of the Court illustrates, such cooperation is increasingly 
broad and deep. All the relevant United Nations entities 
work regularly with the Court. Switzerland welcomes 
in  particular  the  cooperation  between  the  ICC  and 
United  Nations  commissions  of  inquiry,  groups  and 
expert panels, as well as efforts to institutionalize such 
15-35224
13/27
A/70/PV.48 
05/11/2015
cooperation. We also welcome the joint work towards 
building  capacity  in  national  jurisdictions  so  as  to  be 
able to address the most serious crimes.
While  cooperation  is  effective  at  that  level,  the 
relationship with the Security Council is not as clear-cut. 
On the one hand, the Council mandates peacekeeping 
missions  to  support  arrests  being  made,  or  even  to 
execute  them  directly.  On  the  other  hand,  there  are 
areas in which the Council could develop and support 
the  fight  against  impunity  more  than  it  is  currently 
doing.  The  most  striking  example  in  that  respect  is 
the decision by the Council not to refer the situation in 
Syria to the ICC. The lack of response to the numerous 
ICC communications about non-cooperation in referred 
situations  also  attests  to  the  apparent  reluctance  of 
the  Security  Council  to  support  the  ICC  fully.  We 
welcome the fact that the Court’s report addresses the 
issue of sanctions. Switzerland believes that we could 
strengthen  cooperation  between  the  Court  and  the 
Council on sanctions issues and that dialogue should be 
initiated in that regard.
The  Court  is  facing  an  ever  growing  number 
of  judicial  activities.  It  is  also  confronted  with 
growing,  and  at  times  conflicting,  expectations  from 
stakeholders.  Their  expectations  must  be  matched  by 
political  and  financial  support.  In  order  to  maximize 
its  impact,  the  Court  needs  to  work  as  efficiently  as 
possible.  Switzerland  therefore  strongly  supports  the 
President of the Court, the Prosecutor and the Registrar 
in  their  efforts  to  enhance  the  efficacy  of  judicial 
procedures and other processes at the ICC.
In  conclusion,  we  encourage  all  States  parties  to 
ratify  the  Kampala  amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute, 
which consist of expanding the notion of war crimes in 
non-international armed conflicts and defining crimes 
of  aggression.  Switzerland  ratified  those  amendments 
early in September. We also support a timely activation 
of  the  competencies  of  the  ICC  by  the  Assembly  of 
States Parties with respect to crimes of aggression, for 
the  very  simple  reason  that  preventing  wars  prevents 
war crimes from being committed.
Mr.  Adank  (New  Zealand):  We  welcome  the 
2015 annual report (see A/70/350) of the International 
Criminal  Court.  We  also  appreciate 
the  annual 
opportunity  at  the  General  Assembly  to  discuss  the 
Court’s activities, and in particular its relationship with 
the United Nations.
We welcome the election of seven new judges. We 
congratulate  Judge  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi  of 
Argentina on her election as President of the Court, and 
support the observation that she made in March that the 
success of the Court depends on both the cooperation 
of  the  international  community  and  the  performance 
of  the  Court.  We  look  forward  to  engaging  with  her 
on  such  issues  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  Court  is  as 
effective and efficient as it can be.
including 
We  also  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sidiki  Kaba, 
Minister  of  Justice  of  Senegal,  who  was  elected 
President  of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties,  for  his 
recent  efforts  to  strengthen  the  relationship  between 
the  Court  and  States  parties, 
through 
in-country  visits.  We  welcome  his  commitment  to 
working with all States parties to create the conditions 
necessary  for  a  constructive  dialogue  that  is  focused 
on  our  common  goal  of  ending  impunity  for  crimes 
of  concern  to  the  international  community  as  a 
whole  through  national  and  international  measures  of 
cooperation. Looking ahead, we see value in providing 
a regular space for constructive dialogue to take place, 
whether  in  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  or  other 
more informal forums. In addition to the dialogue on 
relationship  issues,  we  acknowledge  the  President  of 
the  Court’s  important  work  aimed  at  promoting  the 
complementarity and universality of the Rome Statute, 
which she spoke about today.
The  workload  of  the  Court  is  ever  increasing. 
The  Court  is  currently  seized  of  21  cases  and  eight 
situations.  During  the  reporting  period,  the  Office  of 
the  Prosecutor  conducted  preliminary  examination 
activities  in  seven  situations  and  opened  one  new 
investigation. We welcome the efforts of the Office of 
the Prosecutor to develop its strategic plan for the period 
2016-2018, which will build on the lessons learned from 
the current plan and identify pathways for the future.
A critical success factor for the Court is its ability to 
cooperate and work with the United Nations at all levels. 
Cooperation  is  central  to  the  relationship  agreement 
between the two organizations. We welcome the extra 
attention that the Court paid to that issue in its report, 
and we encourage it to continue to focus on practical 
matters in future reports. It is important that all United 
Nations offices, funds and programmes implement the 
obligation  to  cooperate,  including  through  simple  but 
significant  actions  such  as  continuing  the  practice  of 
high-level consultations and ensuring that requests are 
responded  to.  Such  efforts  and  others,  in  particular 
14/27 
15-35224
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.48
the  Court’s  suggestions  in  relation  to  sanctions,  are 
essential for a sustainable relationship built on mutual 
trust and respect.
As the Court notes, peacekeeping missions provide 
valuable  assistance  to  the  Court’s  work  and  to  host 
States.  Consistent  with  their  mandates,  such  missions 
lend  essential  support  to  host  States  that  are  trying, 
often  with  limited  capabilities,  to  cooperate  with  the 
Court and ensure that the persons most responsible for 
international crimes are held to account. As a member 
of the Security Council, New Zealand is ever cognizant 
of the link between conflict prevention, peacebuilding 
and 
crimes. 
Non-cooperation with binding Council resolutions that 
refer situations to the Court is not only a critical issue 
for the Court, but also goes to the heart of the Council’s 
own credibility. As previously expressed in the General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  referrals  need  to 
be carefully considered, and the Council needs to have 
a genuine commitment to support the implementation 
of the referrals it makes.
accountability 
international 
for 
New  Zealand  shares  the  view  of  many  present  in 
this  Hall  that  countries  need  to  be  empowered  and 
equipped  with  the  tools  to  investigate  and  prosecute 
crimes at the domestic level, in line with the principle 
of  complementarity.  We  were 
reminded  several 
times  today  that  the  Court  is  a  court  of  last  resort. 
Accountability ought to be pursued at a range of levels 
and  in  a  manner  that  is  appropriate  to  the  specific 
country context.
The international community grappled for decades 
with  the  question  of  whether  the  establishment  of  a 
court with permanent standing and jurisdiction over the 
most  serious  international  crimes  was  possible.  Since 
the adoption of the Rome Statute, in 1998, we have seen 
the  International  Criminal  Court  develop  its  place  in 
the  international  legal  landscape.  Given  the  breadth, 
depth and technical complexity of the Court’s work, the 
future will not be without its challenges.
New Zealand remains committed to working with 
others to ensure that the Court continues to be regarded 
and  perceived  as  a  sustainable  and  effective  judicial 
institution.
Mr.  Pírez  Pérez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The  delegation  of  Cuba  takes  note  of  the  report  (see 
A/70/350)  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  on  its 
activities in 2014 and 2015. We express our commitment 
to the fight against impunity for crimes of concern to 
the international community.
The  current  international  situation  and  the  events 
that  have  taken  place  in  recent  years  are  irrefutable 
proof  of  the  need  for  an  autonomous  international 
juridical  institution  to  maintain  the  fight  against 
impunity for the gravest crimes. However, given article 
16  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  and  the  broad  powers  granted  to  the  Security 
Council  with  regard  to  the  work  of  the  Court,  the 
reality that we see is not exactly that of an independent 
institution.  That  problem,  besides  undermining  the 
essence  of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction,  also  violates  the 
principle  of  the  independence  of  judicial  bodies,  as 
well as the transparency and impartiality needed in the 
administration of justice.
Referrals  to  the  Court  by  the  Security  Council 
confirm the negative trend that my country has witnessed 
and mentioned on several occasions. In the process of 
the  referrals  by  the  Security  Council,  international 
law  is  constantly  violated  and  developing  countries 
are  attacked  in  the  name  of  the  alleged  fight  against 
impunity.  That  is  why  Cuba  reiterates  its  position  for 
the establishment of an impartial criminal jurisdiction 
that is not selective, but effective, fair, complementary 
to  national  justice  systems,  truly  independent  and 
thereby  free  from  subordination  to  political  interests 
that could undermine its very essence.
Unfortunately,  the  results  of  the  first  Review 
Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which  took  place 
in Kampala in 2010, did not resolve the issues I have 
mentioned. The Court, as an organ with international 
criminal  jurisdiction,  continues  to  be  subjected  to 
the illegitimate, undemocratic and abusive acts of the 
Security Council, which violate international law. It is 
also deplorable that some Security Council resolutions 
stipulate that crimes committed by the forces of some 
of  the  Powers  that  are  Security  Council  members  but 
non-parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  are  excluded  from 
investigation.  Such  referrals  by  the  Security  Council 
are  offensive  to  the  international  community.  They 
constitute evidence of the political double standards in 
the  Security  Council,  and  they  violate  the  procedural 
principles of the International Criminal Court.
The  delegation  of  Cuba 
the 
International  Criminal  Court 
ignore 
international treaties and the principles of international 
law. The Court must respect the legal principle relating 
reiterates 
cannot 
that 
15-35224
15/27
A/70/PV.48 
05/11/2015
to the consent of the State to be bound by a treaty, which 
appears in article 11 of part 2 of the Vienna Convention 
on the Law of Treaties, of 23 May 1969.
Cuba reiterates its serious concern at the precedent 
created  by  the  decisions  of  the  Court  to  initiate  legal 
proceedings  against  nationals  of  States  not  party  to 
the  Rome  Statute,  which  have  not  even  accepted  its 
jurisdiction in accordance with article 12 of the same 
treaty. As numerous reports and speakers have stressed, 
the Rome Statute was never intended to replace national 
courts. We should not forget that the jurisdiction of the 
International  Criminal  Court  must  be  independent  of 
the political organs of the United Nations, and always 
function  in  a  complementary  manner  in  relation  to 
national penal jurisdictions.
The people of Cuba have been the victims of the most 
diverse  forms  of  aggression  for  50  years.  Harassment 
and aggression have left thousands of people dead and 
injured  in  Cuba,  hundreds  of  families  have  lost  their 
children,  parents,  siblings,  and  innumerable  trade, 
financial and material losses have occurred. However, 
the  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression  reached  at 
the  first  Review  Conference  fell  far  short  of  taking 
into  account  some  of  the  elements  I  have  mentioned. 
The  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression  should  be 
formulated  in  a  generic  manner  and  encompass  all 
forms of aggression that occur in international relations 
between  States.  It  should  not  be  limited  to  the  use  of 
armed  force,  as  aggression  also  affects  sovereignty, 
territorial  integrity  and  the  political  independence  of 
States.
The  International  Criminal  Court  must  report  its 
activities to the General Assembly on the basis of the 
provisions  of  the  relationship  agreement  between  the 
International  Criminal  Court  and  the  United  Nations. 
Cuba, although not a party to the International Criminal 
Court, is ready to continue actively participating in the 
negotiation processes relating to the Court, especially 
under  the  agenda  item  “Report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court”,  which 
the  General  Assembly 
considers every year.
Cuba  reaffirms 
to  combat 
impunity and maintains its commitment to international 
criminal justice and its attachment to the principles of 
transparency,  independence  and  impartiality  and  the 
unrestricted  application  and  respect  for  international 
law.
its  determination 
Ms. Cooper (Australia): At the outset, I would like 
to  thank  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court (ICC), Judge Sylvia Silvia Alejandra Fernández 
de  Gurmendi,  for  her  informative  presentation.  I  also 
congratulate  her  on  her  election  as  President  and  on 
being the first woman to hold that position.
This  year  we  are  celebrating 
the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  fitting, 
in  this  anniversary  year,  to  reflect  on  the  many 
accomplishments of the United Nations. It is also time 
to take stock and consider how the United Nations and 
Member States can do more to respond to unanswered 
challenges,  including  our  failure  to  end  impunity  for 
serious  international  crimes.  Unimaginable  atrocities 
are being perpetrated daily in all corners of the globe: 
from  the  forced  cannibalism  recorded  in  the  African 
Union’s commission of inquiry on South Sudan to the 
indiscriminate bombing documented in the latest report 
(A/HRC/30/48)  by  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  Independent 
International Commission of Inquiry on the Syrian Arab 
Republic. Yet to date those most responsible for those 
shocking  acts  have  not  been  held  to  account.  That  is 
despite the fact that history has demonstrated time and 
again that the investigation and prosecution of serious 
international crimes is critical to the re-establishment 
of an inclusive and lasting peace and, in that way, to the 
prevention of the recurrence of such crimes.
those  facts 
the 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  propose  the 
establishment  of  a  permanent  criminal  court  in  the 
early  years  of  the  United  Nations.  The  recognition  of 
those facts also led States to conclude the Rome Statute, 
which established the International Criminal Court as 
a  critical  part  of  the  international  peace  and  security 
architecture some 50 years later.
The  acknowledgment  of 
led 
The Court’s services are more in demand than ever. 
Nine  situations  are  currently  before  the  Court,  and 
another nine are under preliminary examination. Each 
of those situations has come before the Court because 
States with jurisdiction were either unwilling or unable 
to take action to hold alleged perpetrators to account.
As the President of the Central African Republic, 
Catherine Samba-Panza, explained when she addressed 
the  latest  meeting  of  the  ICC’s  Assembly  of  States 
Parties,  her  Government  made  a  referral  to  the  Court 
because  it  recognized  that  the  Government  could  not 
deliver  justice  alone.  The  Interim  Government  was 
16/27 
15-35224
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.48
convinced that reconciliation and lasting peace required 
that justice be done, but accepted that the foundations 
of the judicial system in the Central African Republic 
had  collapsed.  It  therefore  called  on  the  Court  for 
assistance — a brave decision that Australia commends.
Australia  does  not  shy  away  from  recognizing 
that the Court has been asked to undertake a complex 
mandate. Collecting evidence in the midst of ongoing 
conflicts,  providing  protection  to  witnesses  half  way 
around  the  world  and  bringing  forward  cases  against 
those  sitting  atop  chains  of  command  are  all  tasks 
that  entail  obvious  challenges.  But,  distressingly,  one 
of the greatest challenges facing the Court is a lack of 
cooperation from the same actors that have pledged to 
save  succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge  of  war 
and affirmed that the most serious crimes of concern 
to the international community as a whole must not go 
unpunished.
The  Court’s  success  in  combating  impunity  for 
serious  international  crimes  hinges  on  the  degree  of 
cooperation that it is afforded, not just by States parties 
and States obliged to cooperate with the Court by virtue 
of  Security  Council  resolutions  but  also  by  non-party 
States  and  regional  and  international  organizations, 
including the United Nations. For that reason, Australia 
once  again  calls  on  States  that  have  not  done  so  to 
ratify  the  Rome  Statute,  as  amended  by  the  Kampala 
amendments,  in  order  to  send  a  clear  and  universal 
message  to  would-be  perpetrators  that  Rome  Statute 
crimes will not be tolerated.
We call on States to support a strong draft resolution 
on the International Criminal Court this session, so as 
to  demonstrate  the  commitment  of  Member  States  to 
the Court. We call on the Security Council to enhance 
its  cooperation  with  the  Court,  including  by  taking 
follow-up  action  in  relation  to  those  situations  that  it 
has referred to the Court, in order to turn the Council’s 
rhetoric on accountability into action.
Secretary-General  Dag  Hammarskjöld  famously 
said  that  the  United  Nations  was  not  created  to  take 
us  to  heaven,  but  to  save  us  from  hell.  The  same  can 
be said of the International Criminal Court. The Court 
has  Australia’s  unwavering  support  in  that  mission. 
We trust that all Member States will agree that it is a 
worthy one.
Mr. Koch (Germany): The International Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  was  founded  on  our  strong  belief  that 
sustainable  peace  and  security  can  be  based  only  on 
justice and the rule of law. That very notion is reflected 
in the preamble to the Rome Statute, which stipulates 
that  the  crimes  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court 
“threaten  the  peace,  security  and  well-being  of  the 
world”.
That is the spirit that makes the success of the ICC a 
joint endeavour on the part of all States parties, as they 
have  a  genuine  interest  in  ensuring  an  effective  fight 
against  impunity.  The  Court  needs  our  support  and 
deserves  its  States  parties’  unconditional  cooperation 
so that it can fulfil its mandate. That is true because a 
lack of cooperation by States leaves the Court without 
means. It is even more true because a lack of cooperation 
seriously undermines the Court’s credibility as it seeks 
to perform its all-important work.
But support for the ICC concerns not only its States 
parties, but also the Security Council. As others have 
said  before  me,  the  Security  Council’s  involvement 
does not end with a decision to refer a situation to the 
ICC. Rather, the Council needs to actively support the 
Court’s work in following up on requests to investigate 
a given situation. The Council therefore needs to take 
a  more  sustained  interest  in  the  ICC’s  work  so  as  to 
support its credibility and, finally, the credibility of the 
ideas on which the Court is based.
(Guatemala) 
Ms.  Rodrígues  Pineda 
(spoke 
in  Spanish):  We  wish  to  congratulate  Judge  Silvia 
Fernández  de  Gurmendi  on  her  election  as  President 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  and  to 
thank  her  for  her  detailed  and  informative  briefing, 
which we listened to with great interest. My delegation 
appreciates  the  annual  exchanges  between  the  United 
Nations and the Court, not only because they strengthen 
institutional dialogue and the relationship between the 
two organizations but also because they serve to give 
visibility to the vital work of the Court. I would like to 
address the relationship that exists between the Court 
and the United Nations by highlighting four key areas.
First,  with  regard  to  the  Court  and  the  General 
Assembly,  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
increasingly  recognize  that  the  ICC  is  the  central 
mechanism  for  the  administration  of  international 
criminal justice. The reality is that war crimes, crimes 
against  humanity  and  genocide  know  no  borders. 
We  must  all  join  forces  in  the  struggle  against  those 
crimes. The success of the Court is therefore an issue 
that concerns all Member States, be they States parties 
or not.
15-35224
17/27
A/70/PV.48 
05/11/2015
We must follow the path chosen 17 years ago with 
the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  redouble  our 
efforts to combat impunity. We must bear in mind the 
long-term  effects  of  the  Court,  which  will  be  greater 
respect  for  international  law,  including  international 
criminal  law  and  international  humanitarian  law,  and 
for human rights and the rule of law. Ultimately, that 
will  contribute  to  international  peace  and  justice  in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. We 
urge Member States that have not yet done so to become 
parties to the Rome Statute. Our appeal is particularly 
urgent  at  a  time  when  we  are  about  to  witness  the 
cessation  of  activities  of  the  ad  hoc  international 
tribunals established by the United Nations.
Secondly, with regard to the relationship between 
the  Court  and  the  Security  Council,  the  Council 
must  commit  to  effectively  following  up  on  its  own 
decisions  regarding  the  specific  situations  that  have 
generated a referral by the Council to the Court. It is 
the responsibility of the Council to ensure compliance 
with  Court  decisions,  especially  when  Court  judges 
have noted and reported instances of non-cooperation. 
Currently, there are 11 communications from the Court 
to the Council on the lack of cooperation with regard 
to Darfur and Libya, to which no response has yet been 
received.
We are concerned that there are States that are not 
honouring  their  obligations  under  the  Rome  Statute 
and  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Whenever  the 
rule of law is defied and the Security Council does not 
prevent it, the rule of law is undermined. One way of 
preventing such undesirable situations from arising in 
the first place, given the unwillingness of some States to 
execute arrest warrants, would simply be not to extend 
invitations to or accept visits of suspects subject to such 
warrants. We also regret the Council’s reluctance to take 
additional measures and to monitor the progress of the 
Court, limiting itself to receiving regular reports from 
the Prosecutor on country situations. That is a sign of 
indifference by the Council to upholding the rule of law 
in general, and to ensuring accountability in particular.
Thirdly,  with  regard  to  the  relationship  between 
the  Court  and  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights, the functions of that 
Office  include  the  use  of  a  variety  of  early  warning 
measures,  including  the  submission  of  reports  on 
situations  and  issues  of  particular  interest.  Reports 
from commissions of inquiry and monitoring missions 
have  proved  useful  for  corroborating  information 
regarding the nature and severity of specific situations. 
Such  information  can  be  especially  advantageous  for 
the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  in  preliminary  hearings, 
during  which  publicly  available  information  is  used 
to  determine  whether  there  is  a  sufficient  basis  for 
conducting an investigation.
We  support  the  recommendation  in  the  Court’s 
report  (see  A/70/350)  for  the  continued  pursuit  of 
ways  to  increase  cooperation  and  coordination  in 
situations that fall within its jurisdiction, with a view to 
facilitating an exchange of information in accordance 
with the relationship agreement. In that regard, we look 
forward to the conclusion of a framework memorandum 
of understanding between the Office of the Prosecutor 
and  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights.
Fourthly, concerning the relationship between the 
Court  and  the  Secretariat,  the  Court  is  often  faced 
with  complex  situations  in  which  the  United  Nations 
is  attempting  to  achieve  parallel  objectives.  For  that 
reason,  the  United  Nations  is  a  crucial  partner  of 
the  Court  and  is  often  uniquely  positioned  to  offer 
logistical  and  security  support  on  the  ground.  In  that 
regard, we are pleased to welcome cooperation with the 
Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations  through  the 
conclusion of several memorandums of understanding 
with  some  peacekeeping  operations  on  the  ground. 
We would note the relevance of the point made in the 
recent  report  of  the  High-level  Independent  Panel  on 
Peacekeeping  Operations  (see  A/70/95)  to  the  effect 
that  a  United  Nations  peacekeeping  mission  alone 
cannot  take  on  all  aspects  of  the  judicial  system  and 
that combined efforts are needed to achieve sustainable 
results. That report adds that it is necessary to examine 
the  whole  chain  of  institutions,  including  tribunals, 
and that they should collaborate efficiently. We believe 
that  the  International  Criminal  Court,  in  accordance 
with  the  principle  of  complementarity,  can  contribute 
to  such  operations  by  ensuring  that  the  rule  of  law 
performs  effectively  to  combat  impunity  through  the 
Court’s  support  of  the  appropriate  transitional  justice 
mechanisms  in  cases  where  past  violations  have  not 
been  resolved  and  pose  an  obstacle  to  achieving  a 
durable peace.
Furthermore,  it  is  important  to  recall  that  the 
relationship  with  the  Secretariat  is  not  confined  to 
peacekeeping  operations  or  to  the  Office  of  Legal 
Affairs,  which  provides  unequivocal  support  to  the 
Court,  but  that  it  affects  all  aspects  of  the  United 
18/27 
15-35224
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.48
that 
it  essential 
Nations  presence  on  the  ground  through  its  offices, 
funds  and  programmes,  as  well  as  its  humanitarian 
operations.  We  consider 
that 
commitment to collaboration should be shouldered by 
all parts of the United Nations system, in accordance 
with the Secretary-General’s policy and on the basis of 
the relationship agreement. For example, we note that 
the Court’s report points out that it has asked on various 
occasions for restrictions on documents from the United 
Nations and other sources to be lifted in order for the 
Court to be able to use them during trials. The report 
likewise stresses the assistance provided by the United 
Nations  and  related  bodies  with  regard  to  making 
available former officials to testify in trials. The annual 
joint round tables between the United Nations and the 
Court  provide  a  good  opportunity  for  both  entities  to 
hold working sessions to discuss practical cooperation 
agreements, lessons learned and future challenges.
In  conclusion,  I  once  again  reiterate  Guatemala’s 
unwavering commitment to the International Criminal 
Court and to the fight against impunity for grave crimes 
of concern to the international community.
Mr.  Gâlea  (Romania):  The  Romanian  delegation 
thanks the International Criminal Court for its eleventh 
annual report (see A/70/350) to the United Nations.
First  of  all,  we  would  like  to  congratulate  Judge 
Silvia Alejandra Fernández de Gurmendi on her election 
as President of the International Criminal Court (ICC). 
We also congratulate Mr. Sidiki Kaba on his election as 
President of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome 
Statute of the ICC. I can ensure them both of Romania’s 
commitment to, and full support for, their efforts.
My  delegation  equally  welcomes  the  election  of 
seven  new  judges,  given  the  increasing  workload  and 
prospects faced by the Court. As the report highlights, 
the  ICC  is  currently  dealing  with  21  cases  in  eight 
situations at different stages of proceedings, while the 
Office  of  the  Prosecutor  is  conducting  investigations 
and preliminary examinations in a significant number 
of cases. Next year is expected to be a very busy one, 
with four trials taking place simultaneously.
The  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  ICC 
is, in our view, the most powerful preventive approach. 
This  year  marked  Palestine’s  accession  to  the  Rome 
Statute  and  the  declaration  by  Ukraine,  which  was 
submitted  under  article  12,  paragraph  3,  of  the  Rome 
Statute, accepting the jurisdiction of the Court for acts 
committed on its territory since 20 February 2014. We 
continue  to  encourage  all  States  to  become  parties  to 
the Rome Statute.
From  our  perspective,  the  ICC’s  ability  to  deliver 
justice depends on the full cooperation of States. The 
fundamental  challenge  to  the  Court’s  work  remains 
the  need  to  ensure  full  and  prompt  cooperation  with 
it,  and  in  particular  the  need  to  react  to  instances  of 
non-cooperation. The Court’s efforts to ensure respect 
for the rule of law must not be undermined. Victims face 
the prospect of remaining victims forever when justice 
fails to fulfil its basic role. States should be aware of 
the significant role that they play in the fulfilment of 
international  justice  in  compliance  with  their  legal 
obligations stemming from the Rome Statute and/or the 
relevant Security Council resolutions.
The 
ICC 
last 
remains  a  court  of 
implementation  of 
is  particularly 
resort, 
jurisdictions.  Therefore, 
complementing  national 
the  principle  of 
the  effective 
complementarity 
important 
the 
potential  of  the  Rome  Statute  is  to  be  fully  realized. 
We commend the positive example of the situation in 
Guinea, as described in the report, and the efforts of all 
the actors involved.
if 
The  report  equally  illustrates  the  importance  of 
the  relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
International  Criminal  Court,  as  well  as  the  need  for 
unwavering  political  support  and  follow-up  action  by 
the  Security  Council  to  address  issues  arising  from 
referrals to the ICC made by the Council in accordance 
with  the  Rome  Statute.  We  express  our  support  for 
establishing  a  mechanism  that  would  ensure  effective 
follow-up to such referrals. Romania remains an active 
and  strong  supporter  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  and  continues  to  promote  its  work,  which  is 
crucial for international peace and justice.
The  Romanian  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  delivered  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union 
and its Member States.
Mr.  Logar  (Slovenia):  Allow  me  to  begin  by 
extending  Slovenia’s  heartfelt  congratulations  to  the 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
Judge  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  on  her  election 
and to thank her for introducing the annual report of the 
Court (see A/70/350).
Slovenia  welcomes  today’s  opportunity  to  engage 
in  a  discussion  on  the  work  of  the  Court.  The  report 
reaffirms the continuous increase in the workload of the 
15-35224
19/27
A/70/PV.48 
05/11/2015
Court, as well as the scale and versatility of its efforts 
to bring justice to victims — all of which attests to the 
growing role of the Court in establishing accountability 
for  the  most  serious  crimes  under  international  law. 
With the transition of the Court to its new permanent 
premises,  the  Court  will  be  able  to  conduct  an 
unprecedented number of trials simultaneously, leading 
to  an  even  greater  pace  for  the  Court  in  2016.  Since 
the effectiveness and efficiency of the Court in fighting 
impunity  largely  depend  on  the  level  of  commitment 
of the international community, it is crucial that we do 
our share.
I  would  like  to  focus  in  my  statement  on  four 
key  areas  of  particular  importance,  which  are  also 
highlighted  in  the  report  before  us,  namely  the 
relationship between the ICC and the United Nations, 
States’  cooperation  with  the  ICC,  the  principle  of 
complementarity and universality.
One  of  the  underlying  aspirations  of  the  United 
Nations is to establish conditions under which, according 
to  preamble  of  the  statute  of  the  Court,  “Justice  and 
respect  for  the  obligations  can  be  maintained”.  With 
the  principles  and  powers  enshrined  in  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  United  Nations  is  a  vital 
partner  of  the  ICC  in  establishing  accountability  for 
atrocity  crimes.  Slovenia  therefore  welcomes 
the 
highly  valuable  cooperation  between  the  ICC  and  the 
United  Nations,  including  in  the  form  of  information 
exchange,  logistical  support  and  security  assistance, 
involving  not  only  United  Nations  Headquarters,  but 
also  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  and  other 
United Nations presence in the field.
As  is  evident  from  the  report,  the  ICC-United 
Nations relationship has seen notable progress in recent 
years,  which  is  highly  commendable.  While  fully 
appreciative  of  those  developments,  my  delegation 
would  like  to  refer  to  several  priorities  and  priority 
areas where we see room for further improvements. Let 
me begin with the role of the Security Council.
With  the  powers  vested  in  the  Security  Council, 
including  the  ability  to  refer  situations  to  the  ICC, 
the  Council  is  a  particularly  important  partner  of  the 
ICC, and its support has a great potential impact on the 
efficiency of the Court. However, 11 unanswered Court 
communications  to  the  Security  Council,  concerning 
non-cooperation  regarding  Darfur  and  Libya  and  a 
general  lack  of  policy  with  respect  to  referrals,  attest 
to  the  fact  that  greater  efforts  are  needed  to  further 
enhance the cooperation between the Security Council 
and the Court. There is a clear need for a better follow-
up to the referred situations on the part of the Security 
Council.  Moreover,  the  full  implementation  of  the 
Relationship Agreement and better use of the Security 
Council’s sanctions system in cases of persons sought 
by the Court under an arrest warrant would also, and 
importantly, advance the Court’s efforts and efficiency. 
In  that  regard,  Slovenia  would  like  to  reaffirm  its 
support  for  initiatives  urging  permanent  members  of 
the Security Council to refrain from using the veto in 
situations of atrocity crimes.
Further  improvements  would  also  be  welcome 
concerning the mainstreaming of the Court in the United 
Nations system and the role of peacekeeping missions. 
Slovenia  welcomes  the  concrete  recommendations  in 
the  report  on  how  to  further  strengthen  both  areas  of 
concern,  and  stresses  the  need  to  examine  ways  they 
could be implemented. Therefore, it is essential that we 
make the best use of it to raise awareness and political 
support  for  the  Court  and  to  create  greater  synergies 
among the relevant actors in the field of human rights, 
peace and security and international criminal justice.
With  the  broad  United  Nations  presence  on  the 
ground,  we  believe  that  its  potential  for  cooperation 
with the Court is vast. What we need to ensure, however, 
is  that  the  peacekeeping  mission  mandates  allow  for 
the most effective cooperation with the Court and host 
States.  Just  as  the  Court  needs  effective  support  and 
cooperation  from  the  United  Nations,  it  requires  full 
and  prompt  cooperation  from  Member  States.  It  is 
critical  to  understand  that  cooperation  with  the  ICC 
is  not  a  choice;  it  is  a  legal  obligation,  as  defined  in 
the  Rome  Statute.  To  date,  12  arrest  warrants  remain 
outstanding  —  some  for  several  years  —  including 
that  of  Omar  Al-Bashir.  A  lack  of  cooperation  on 
the  part  of  States  seriously  undermines  the  Court. 
Slovenia therefore calls on States to comply with their 
international obligations.
The  third  area  of  importance  for  the  functioning 
of  the  Court,  which  I  would  like  to  address  today, 
is  the  principle  of  complementarity.  As  the  report 
rightly  states,  “Ending  impunity  is  not  the  preserve 
of  any  one  institution”  (A/70/350,  para.  101  (a)).  As 
other  delegations  have  noted,  the  Court  is  a  court  of 
last resort and can prosecute only a limited number of 
individuals. What we need is the proper and effective 
implementation  of  the  principle  of  complementarity. 
That, however, requires appropriate national legislation, 
20/27 
15-35224
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.48
the  necessary  capacities  and  inter-State  cooperation. 
Slovenia,  together  with  Argentina,  Belgium  and  the 
Netherlands,  is  actively  engaged  in  such  efforts,  in 
particular through an initiative to adopt a multilateral 
treaty  for  mutual  legal  assistance  and  extradition  for 
the  domestic  prosecution  of  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity  and  war  crimes.  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to invite all States to join nearly 50 other 
States in supporting that initiative.
remains  committed 
to  promoting 
Turning  to  the  important  issue  of  universality, 
Slovenia 
the 
universality  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  the  Kampala 
amendments.  We  believe  that  it  is  only  through 
universal  outreach  that  the  ICC  can  truly  develop  to 
its  full  potential.  However,  attaining  that  goal  will 
require active engagement on the part of international 
and  regional  organizations,  States  and  civil  society. 
With  that  in  mind,  this  year  Slovenia  organized  two 
international conferences that put international criminal 
justice at the top of the agenda: the Rights for Peace: 
Challenges  and  Opportunities  conference  in  April, 
and  the  annual  international  Bled  Strategic  Forum  in 
September.  The  Forum  included  panels  dedicated  to 
ending  sexual  violence  in  conflict  and  strengthening 
the  fight  against 
to 
promoting  universality  has  been  further  affirmed  by 
the action plan on universality, adopted in September 
in  the  framework  of  the  informal  ministeral  network 
supporting the ICC. Slovenia takes this opportunity to 
once again call on all States to join the ICC, ratify the 
Kampala  amendments  and,  in  so  doing,  affirm  their 
commitment  to  accountability  and  respect  for  human 
rights.
impunity.  Our  commitment 
To  conclude,  Slovenia  remains  firmly  committed 
to  advocating  and  promoting  the  rule  of  law  and 
international criminal justice. Global peace and security 
can be possible only with the advancement of the well-
being of nations, respect for human rights and the rule 
of law. The ICC is an important tool for the prevention 
and  prosecution  of  atrocity  crimes,  and  deserves  our 
strong  political  commitment  and  cooperation,  as  well 
as our full respect for its independence and integrity. 
Let us do our share.
Mr.  Mohamed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Sudan 
underscores the importance of the noble objectives that 
prevailed  when  the  United  Nations  was  established. 
These include the maintenance of peace and security, 
sustainable development, and the protection of human 
rights  through  an  approach  based  on  international 
cooperation  and  dialogue  aimed  at  the  development 
of  friendly  relations  and  the  peaceful  settlements  of 
disputes. To this end, the Charter of the United Nations 
sets forth the principles of the equality and sovereignty 
of  States,  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
other States, and respect for the political independence 
and  territorial  integrity  of  States.  Such  international 
cooperation is the way we will withstand all challenges, 
including  those  in  the  economic,  social  and  political 
areas. We must refrain from using or threatening to use 
violence.
Avoiding impunity is one of international justice’s 
loftiest  goals.  We  all  agree  on  the  importance  of 
this  principle.  It  is  the  responsibility  of  the  national 
judicial  and  legal  authorities  to  uphold  this  principle 
with  the  support  of  relevant  national  legislation. 
The  politicization  of  international  justice  and  the 
manipulation  of  justice  to  serve  narrow  interests 
are  inconsistent  with  the  efforts  of  the  international 
community  to  achieve  justice  and  implement  the 
principles  and  purposes  set  forth  in  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations.  Such  politicization  increases 
tension  in  international  relations  and  infringes  upon 
the  established  rules  of  international  law  instead  of 
promoting it in fulfilment of one of the main purposes 
for which the United Nations was founded.
As  we  review  the  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (see  A/70/350),  we  should  remind 
ourselves  of  the  relationship  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
which  is  based  on  the  independence  and  discreteness 
of each entity and the non-existence of any organic or 
structural  relationship  between  them.  We  note  with 
concern  that  a  number  of  States  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute of the ICC are trying to transform the General 
Assembly  into  an  assembly  of  States  parties  to  the 
Rome Statute. The Sudan has voiced a strong objection 
against this trend, which has been clearly expressed in 
the ICC annual report.
The  authors  of  the  report  have  proposed  new 
provisions that might lead to interpretations that do not 
reflect the letter or spirit of the relationship agreement 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC.  These 
proposals should not be used to support arguments in 
favour  of  merging  the  ICC  with  the  United  Nations 
system. The Court must remain independent and should 
act  in  accordance  with  unambiguous  provisions  that 
serve as a balanced legal framework for its operations. 
The Sudan has clearly expressed its position in informal 
15-35224
21/27
A/70/PV.48 
05/11/2015
consultations  on  the  Court’s  draft  special  decisions, 
and we will not change that position.
In its recent practice, the ICC has shown that it has 
become a tool of international conflict and a political 
action  mechanism,  particularly  through  its  special 
focus  on  Africa  and  through  its  targeting  of  African 
leaders  and  symbols,  to  such  an  extent  that  African 
public opinion describes the ICC as a court of big States 
bearing  down  on  developing  countries.  A  number  of 
questions  impose  themselves  in  that  regard.  What  is 
the ICC position with respect to crimes in non-African 
regions? Why does the ICC ignore those crimes? Is it 
not  an  international  court  entrusted  with  the  task  of 
preventing impunity whenever and wherever crimes are 
perpetrated?  Where  are  the  principles  of  impartiality, 
independence  and  integrity  as  the  main  pillars  of  the 
practice of the Court?
These questions, which we have raised and continue 
to raise, are very difficult ones, but we have not received 
any  rational  or  convincing  response.  The  current 
practices  of  the  ICC  and  the  persons  representing  it 
provide  a  clear  answer  —  the  ICC’s  only  mandate  is 
to target Africans and African States and nobody else. 
I would ask members to read the list of situations and 
cases in the report. The list contains situations in eight 
countries  of  the  world,  which  is  enough  to  provide 
additional  proof  of  what  I  am  saying.  All  the  listed 
situations are in African States; this is by no means a 
coincidence; far from it.
The relationship between the ICC and the Security 
Council  is  an  explicit  illustration  of  politicization. 
There  should  be  no  such  relationship  between  a  body 
entrusted  with  achieving  international  justice  and 
another political body driven by political interests and 
calculations  —  the  same  body  that  refers  cases  that 
occur in certain countries while excluding others. This 
relationship  typifies  the  blurry  distinction  between 
justice as a principle that unites humankind at large, on 
the one hand, and the political calculations that are so 
inconsistent  with  the  principle  of  equity,  on  the  other 
hand.
The reports of the Secretary-General on the ICC and 
its relationship with the United Nations should respect 
the  spirit  and  letter  of  the  Relationship  Agreement 
without advocating for the merger between the ICC and 
the United Nations system. Furthermore, the Sudanese 
delegation expresses its concern regarding the explicit 
interference of the ICC in the work of the Secretariat, 
with its efforts to instruct Secretariat staff on how to 
deal  with  Member  States  or  asking  Member  States  to 
send reports and explanations on how they implement 
their obligations.
We  are  not  the  only  ones  concerned  about  the 
harmful  impact  of  voluntary  contributions  on  the 
Court’s  integrity  and  independence.  We  are  not  the 
only  ones  to  express  their  deep  concern  —  I  repeat, 
deep  concern  —  with  respect  to  the  principle  of 
complementarity described in the Rome Statute. I am 
speaking  of  the  ambiguity  that  was  described  by  the 
first  President  of  the  ICC  as  a  positive  ambiguity,  a 
“constructive ambiguity”. Unfortunately, this so-called 
constructive  ambiguity  is  the  same  principle  that  has 
become  hostage  to  political  interpretation  to  such  an 
extent that it has led a European Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  to  say  that  ICC  jurisdiction  does  not  apply  to 
his own State.
The  principle  of  equality  should  not  be  based  on 
constitutional rights as was stated by a previous speaker, 
not  because  it  is  part  of  international  customary  law 
alone, but because equality at its core means that there 
should be no distinction between persons based on their 
nationality or the State with which they are affiliated. 
However,  the  factual  reality  of  the  Court  is  that  such 
distinctions are made, which is an explicit abuse of the 
principles of justice and good conscience.
My State reiterates that we should avoid impunity 
and  achieve  justice  through  competent  legal  bodies. 
Furthermore,  we  categorically  refuse  to  deal  with 
international bodies that we are not States parties to, in 
accordance with the Vienna Convention on the Law of 
Treaties between States and International Organizations 
or between International Organizations.
Mr.  Meza-Cuadra  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Peru welcomes with interest the report (see A/70/350) 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  on  its  activities 
in  2014  and  2015,  which  has  been  submitted  to 
the  General  Assembly  pursuant  to  article  6  of  the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  International  Criminal  Court.  It  also  wishes 
to  welcome  the  election  of  seven  new  judges  and  in 
particular  the  election  of  the  President  of  the  Court, 
Judge  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  who  is  an 
illustrious representative of our region. Peru reiterates 
its recognition of the work of the Court’s organs, which 
is carried out in strict compliance with the provisions 
22/27 
15-35224
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.48
of the Rome Statute and is not subordinate to any other 
kind of consideration.
Twelve  years  after  its  creation,  the  International 
Criminal Court has a heavy workload, consisting of 21 
cases and 8 situations. We also know that in 2016, the 
Court will be even more active, with an unprecedented 
caseload.  Peru  is  therefore  pleased  that  in  December 
the  Court  will  move  to  its  permanent  headquarters. 
Nevertheless,  we  also  recognize  that  the  Court  can 
continue to improve its efficiency. In that regard, Peru 
is honoured to serve as a focal point for Cluster I, which 
is focused on increasing the efficiency of the criminal 
process,  of  the  Study  Group  on  Governance  of  the 
Assembly of States Parties. In that regard, we support 
the adoption of practical measures, in accordance with 
the Rome Statute, to expedite proceedings and improve 
the efficiency of the Court, provided that they do not 
undermine due process or the rights of the parties and 
victims.
Despite 
recognizes 
that  progress,  Peru 
that 
international  criminal  justice  continues  to  be  a  lofty 
goal and that the International Criminal Court, a young 
institution  on  the  international  scene,  needs  more 
support and a high level of cooperation. Such support 
should  come  not  just  from  the  States  parties  to  the 
Rome  Statute,  but  rather  from  all  States  Members  of 
the United Nations. In that regard, Peru expresses deep 
concern  about  the  problems  linked  to  the  financing 
of  the  Court,  in  particular  in  relation  to  referrals  by 
the  Security  Council,  which  are  funded  by  the  States 
parties to the Statute alone instead of by all the States 
Members  of  our  Organization.  Similarly,  we  reiterate 
our  concern  with  regard  to  the  meagre  progress 
reflected  in  the  recent  General  Assembly  resolutions 
on  the  report  of  the  Court,  and  we  hope  that  during 
the current session fruitful discussions can be held to 
achieve a substantive resolution that is fully supported 
by the entire international community and will help the 
fight against international impunity.
I  shall  now  briefly  refer  to  the  need  to  keep 
moving forwards towards comprehensive reform of the 
Security Council, particularly in relation to its working 
methods  and  the  use  of  the  veto.  That  is  especially 
relevant  given  the  imperative  of  preventing  atrocity 
crimes. Indeed, when a State cannot fulfil its sovereign 
responsibility to protect its population, we have noted 
that the international community has failed to respond 
adequately  and  the  Security  Council  has  been  unable 
to  fulfil  its  primary  responsibility  for  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security.  Therefore,  Peru 
supports the French initiative and the initiative of the 
Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency  group 
regarding  a  code  of  conduct  on  Security  Council 
resolutions to prevent mass atrocities.
As a member of the Informal Ministerial Network 
for  the  International  Criminal  Court,  Peru  attaches 
the  greatest  importance  to  the  universality  of  the 
Rome Statute. Indeed, in the context of the Ministerial 
Network,  we  have  recently  adopted  an  action  plan, 
which is an important step towards that end. Therefore, 
we  take  this  opportunity  to  call  upon  the  States  that 
have not yet done so to consider ratifying the Statute, 
preferably in its 2010 version.
Peru  is  a  peaceful  and  stable  country  that  has 
overcome  serious  internal  conflicts  over  the  course 
of  its  history.  That  was  possible  thanks  to  the 
implementation of genuine accountability mechanisms, 
which  are  the  best  way  to  prevent  the  recurrence  of 
serious human rights violations. We therefore reaffirm 
our  commitment  to  the  struggle  against  international 
impunity,  as  well  as  to  the  work  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  which  is  the  best-placed  institution 
for  ensuring  that  the  most  serious  crimes  do  not  go 
unpunished.
Mr.  Pressman  (United  States  of  America):  I 
thank  President  Gurmendi  for  her  presentation  of  the 
activities  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC) 
between 1 August 2014 and 31 July 2015, and for her 
service to the Court in this first year of her tenure as 
President.
Ending  impunity  for  those  responsible  for  war 
crimes,  crimes  against  humanity  and  genocide  is 
something that the United States views as both a moral 
imperative and a stabilizing force in international affairs. 
To that end, the United States continues to work, on a 
case-by-case  basis  and  consistent  with  United  States 
policy and laws, with the International Criminal Court 
to identify practical ways to advance accountability for 
the  worst  crimes  known  to  humankind.  Together,  the 
international  community  must  find  ways  to  intensify 
its collaboration to bring to justice the perpetrators of 
atrocity crimes.
This past year has been marked by some progress. 
In  January,  the  United  States  welcomed  the  transfer 
of Dominic Ongwen by Central African authorities to 
the  ICC,  which  occurred  thanks  to  close  cooperation 
between  the  Court,  the  Central  African  Republic, 
15-35224
23/27
A/70/PV.48 
05/11/2015
Uganda,  the  African  Union  Regional  Task  Force  and 
the  United  States.  Ongwen  is  allegedly  responsible 
for committing and directing brutal crimes in Uganda 
and the region. The fact that he will now stand trial at 
the  ICC  is  a  welcome  and  long-overdue  step  towards 
justice for the victims of the Lord’s Resistance Army. 
The United States was pleased to work with its partners 
to help make that happen. We look forward to the day 
when Joseph Kony, too, will be held accountable.
The  United  States  also  recently  welcomed  the 
announcement by the ICC Prosecutor in September that 
Ahmad  Al-Faqi  Al-Mahdi,  an  alleged  member  of  the 
Islamic extremist group Ansar Eddine, was surrendered 
to  the  Court  by  the  authorities  of  the  Niger,  with  the 
cooperation of Mali. That is an important step towards 
holding  accountable  those  responsible  for  serious 
crimes in Mali and towards holding accountable alleged 
members  of  extremist  groups  for  war  crimes.  The 
charges against Al-Faqi signal progress in bringing to 
justice those accused of intentionally targeting attacks 
against religious and historic buildings and monuments. 
Such assaults are not just on Mali and its people, but on 
the common cultural heritage of all humankind. Those 
are  attacks  against  civilization  and  a  tragedy  for  all 
civilized people, and, as Secretary of State John Kerry 
has  said,  the  civilized  world  must  take  a  stand.  The 
United  States  commends  Mali  and  the  Niger  on  their 
cooperativeness in transferring Al-Faqi to the Court.
The United States also welcomes the Court’s report 
of  continued  cooperation  with  peacekeeping  missions 
that  have  been  authorized  by  the  Security  Council  to 
provide support to appropriate justice and accountability 
initiatives.  We  recognize  with  particular  appreciation 
the  contributions  of  UN-Women  to  the  work  of  the 
Office  of  the  Prosecutor  through  the  secondment  of 
gender experts. At a time when we continue to witness 
the  commission  of  horrific  sexual  and  gender-based 
violence  and  crimes  against  women  and  girls  and 
boys and men in atrocity situations around the world, 
we  must  remain  vigilant  in  our  fight  to  prevent,  end 
and  hold  to  account  those  responsible  for  these  most 
heinous crimes. The United States remains committed 
to  pursuing  justice  for  victims  of  sexual  and  gender-
based  violence,  including  through  strengthening  the 
ability of national authorities to address these crimes, 
which  we  are  doing  in  countries  like  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo.
The ICC was established as a court of last resort, 
one that would focus on those deemed most responsible 
for the most serious crimes and one that would step in to 
investigate and prosecute such persons only when States 
are not willing or genuinely able to do so themselves. 
Our  support  for  domestic  accountability  efforts  must 
be  integral  to  our  approach  collectively  to  ending 
impunity for atrocity crimes. We welcome the progress 
made  in  the  Central  African  Republic  to  establish 
a  special  criminal  court,  within  its  domestic  system, 
but with international participation. This represents an 
important step towards providing accountability at the 
national level for the crimes committed amid the ongoing 
brutal violence in the Central African Republic, while 
simultaneously bolstering national-level capacity. The 
special criminal court could demonstrate the potential 
of  positive  complementarity,  whereby  international 
scrutiny and activity have stimulated and supported the 
capacity  of  the  domestic  judiciary  to  bring  justice  to 
victims.
In closing, it is important to note that there is still 
much to be done in our work together to prevent mass 
atrocities and bring to justice those who commit crimes 
against  humanity,  war  crimes  and  genocide.  Facing 
limited  resources  and  increasing  demands,  it  will  be 
important for the Court to make prudent decisions about 
the cases it pursues and declines to pursue and ensure 
that  its  choices  are  guided  by  justice,  rigour,  fairness 
and  care.  The  international  community  should  strive 
to  ensure  that  the  Court  is  able  to  remain  focused  on 
its core mandate to address war crimes, crimes against 
humanity  and  genocide,  and  the  Court  should  remain 
focused on achieving concrete and just results.
We  note,  in  this  regard,  that  the  United  States 
continues to have serious concerns about the amendments 
on the crime of aggression adopted at Kampala, which 
we believe would risk undermining not only the Court’s 
work to prevent and punish atrocity crimes, but other 
legitimate efforts to do so as well. If States do not have 
clarity on what conduct is covered, it is easy to imagine 
the  complications  and  the  chilling  effect  that  would 
arise in any number of situations where the imperative 
for  action,  including  by  our  partners  and  allies  who 
are  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  is  overwhelming, 
including action aimed at stopping the very atrocities 
that prompted the Court’s creation. Imagine — in such 
a  situation  after  the  Court’s  aggression  jurisdiction 
has been activated — the questions States would face 
about  whether  the  Court  would  regard  as  aggression 
a  decision  to  join  or  support  a  coalition  to  prevent  a 
humanitarian catastrophe.
24/27 
15-35224
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.48
It is in this context that we stress that we all have an 
interest in seeking greater clarity on key issues before 
any decision is taken to activate the Court’s jurisdiction 
over the crime of aggression, including with regard both 
to what conduct is covered and also to which States are 
covered.  States  should  not  have  to  decide  whether  to 
activate  the  amendments  without  clear  and  common 
understanding  on  these  points.  We  look  forward  to 
continued cooperation with the United Nations and our 
international partners on these most important matters.
Mr.  Auväärt  (Estonia):  Estonia  aligns  itself  with 
the  statement  delivered  earlier  by  the  observer  of  the 
European Union. In my national capacity, please allow 
me to make the following remarks.
I  thank  President  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi 
for her presentation of the report (see A/70/350) of the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  on  its  activities 
in  2014/15  and  congratulate  her  on  her  election.  The 
report illustrates the continuously increasing caseload 
of  the  Court,  which  in  turn  reflects  the  worldwide 
demand for justice. There are now 21 cases and eight 
active  situations  under  the  Court’s  consideration,  of 
which a considerable number were referred to the Court 
by the States themselves. In addition, the Prosecutor is 
seized with numerous communications and preliminary 
analysis from all over the world and next year, for the 
first time, the Court will deal with four different trials 
taking place simultaneously. In this regard, we note the 
important internal reforms and evaluation by the Court 
in order to make its work more efficient. Estonia hopes 
that States parties will keep the growing workload of the 
Court in mind when negotiating the Court’s budget at 
the upcoming Assembly session and provide the Court 
with the necessary resources to fulfil its mandate.
With respect to the past year, we note the ratification 
of the Rome Statute by the State of Palestine and the 
second declaration by Ukraine accepting the exercise of 
jurisdiction by the Court over alleged crimes committed 
in Ukraine’s territory since 20 February 2014. Estonia 
hopes that Ukraine will also promptly ratify the Rome 
Statute to enjoy the full protection of the Rome Statute 
system. We welcome the fact that, during the reporting 
period, six States ratified the Kampala amendments and 
eight States ratified or accepted the amendments to the 
Statute  on  the  crime  of  aggression.  Estonia  reiterates 
its call on all United Nations Members that have not yet 
done so to ratify the Rome Statute.
While the ICC is an independent judicial institution, 
it  is  connected  to  the  United  Nations  through  its 
genesis  and  shared  values.  This  natural  relationship 
was institutionalized 11 years ago, in 2004, through the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and the International Criminal Court. The Agreement 
provides  a  general  framework  for  cooperation  for 
these  two  institutions.  We  appreciate  the  continued 
cooperation  and  assistance  the  Court  receives  from 
the  United  Nations,  and  we  further  encourage  the 
strengthening of the relationship between the Court and 
the Security Council.
the 
important 
Estonia 
recognizes 
judicial 
developments  during  the  reporting  period  with  the 
Court’s  first  two  appeals  judgements  in  the  situation 
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the transfer 
and  subsequent  proceeding  in  the  Dominic  Ongwen 
case, and the confirmation of charges against Charles 
Blé  Goudé  in  the  situation  in  Côte  d’Ivoire.  We  also 
note the first appearance of Ahmad Al-Faqi Al-Mahdi 
before  the  ICC,  who  allegedly  was  involved  in  the 
destruction  of  historical  and  religious  monuments  in 
Timbuktu and therefore constitutes the first case before 
the  ICC  concerning  this  type  of  crime.  Furthermore, 
we recognize the Prosecutor’s progress in her work on 
the situation in Georgia and note her assignment of the 
situation to the Pre-Trial Chamber in order to open an 
investigation into the situation.
The Security Council has authorized the missions 
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Mali to 
cooperate  with  and  support  the  Court.  We  encourage 
the  Security  Council 
to  mandate  peacekeeping 
missions  to  arrest  ICC  fugitives  and  to  equip  them 
in  such  a  manner  that  the  missions  are  able  to  fulfil 
their mandate. We recommend this in the light of the 
12 outstanding warrants of arrest issued by the Court 
and the fundamental goal of the Council to prevent mass 
atrocities,  which  constitute  a  threat  to  international 
peace  and  security.  Estonia  also  calls  upon  all  States 
Members of the United Nations to contribute to ending 
impunity  by  working  together  to  execute  the  pending 
arrest warrants.
Considering that the Office of Legal Affairs is the 
focal point for ensuring cooperation within the entire 
United Nations system on all aspects of the relationship 
with the Court, Estonia encourages all United Nations 
actors to systematize their cooperation with the Office 
of Legal Affairs.
15-35224
25/27
A/70/PV.48 
05/11/2015
The failure to bring individuals responsible for the 
most serious crimes under international law to justice 
means failing the victims of these crimes. The victims 
are the raison d’être of the Rome Statute system. The 
Court has given hope to the victims of atrocity crimes, 
and more than 200,000 victims have already benefited 
directly  or  indirectly  from  the  concrete  assistance 
programmes  of  the  ICC  Trust  Fund  for  Victims.  We 
welcome the progress made by the Court in the Lubanga 
case  concerning  the  policy  on  reparations.  Estonia  is 
contributing again this year to the Trust Fund and we 
call upon others to do the same.
In 
conclusion,  given 
the  States’  primary 
responsibility  to  ensure  accountability,  it  is  of  the 
utmost importance that States, the United Nations and 
other  international,  regional  and  non-governmental 
organizations  assist  States  in  building  the  national 
capacity  to  investigate  and  prosecute  Rome  Statute 
crimes domestically. The increasing attention that the 
United Nations has recently given to the strengthening 
of domestic capacity to address crimes under the Rome 
Statute is most welcome, and Estonia hopes that these 
efforts will continue. Estonia has allocated development 
cooperation resources to promote the strengthening of 
national judicial capacity in this regard, working closely 
with  civil  society  organizations,  which  play  a  crucial 
role  in  assisting  States  to  bring  domestic  legislation 
into line with the Rome Statute, and we call upon all 
Member States in a position to do so to do the same.
Ms. Krasa (Cyprus): At the outset, we would like 
to  congratulate  President  Fernández  de  Gurmendi  on 
her election as President of the International Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  and  to  thank  her  for  her  comprehensive 
presentation  of  the  report  (see  A/70/350)  covering 
the  period  from  1  August  2014  to  31  July  2015.  My 
delegation aligns itself with the statement delivered by 
the observer of the European Union and would like to 
deliver additional remarks in its national capacity.
The Republic of Cyprus is pleased to participate in 
today’s consideration of the annual report and would like 
to  reiterate  its  conviction  that  the  Court  significantly 
contributes  to  the  overall  goal  of  the  United  Nations 
to  work  towards  a  more  just  and  peaceful  world, 
serving in this way the purposes and principles of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Given  the  connecting 
and  complementary  mandates  of  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Court,  the  relationship  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Court,  as  formalized  in  the  2004 
relationship agreement between the United Nations and 
the International Criminal Court, is significant.
The Republic of Cyprus is pleased to note that, during 
the reporting period, the United Nations continued to 
work  closely  with  the  Court  to  further  strengthen  the 
relationship and to ensure the effective implementation 
of the relationship agreement. As reflected in the report, 
the Court had another very full year in terms of judicial 
proceedings, investigations, preliminary investigations 
and  institutional  developments,  a  pace  of  work  that 
is  likely  to  continue  to  intensify  in  the  subsequent 
period.  Cyprus  acknowledges  the  important  judicial 
developments in the reporting period and will continue 
to follow closely developments in the 21 cases and eight 
situations currently before the Court. We also welcome 
the  fact  that  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  is  giving 
particular  attention  to  allegations  concerning  attacks 
against  cultural  heritage  and  buildings  dedicated  to 
religion  and,  in  this  regard,  welcome  progress  in 
the  Ahmad  Al-Faqi  Al-Mahdi  case.  In  the  light  of 
these  developments,  the  further  strengthening  of  the 
relationship between the United Nations and the Court 
by means of practical steps, such as those contained in 
the report of the Court to the Assembly of States Parties 
on  the  status  of  ongoing  cooperation  between  the 
International Criminal Court and the United Nations, is 
a prospect that we support.
It is a fact that the Court continues to look to the 
international  community  for  support  and  cooperation 
in  establishing  accountability  for  the  most  serious 
crimes  under  international  law,  bringing  justice  to 
victims  and  affected  communities,  and  helping  to 
prevent future atrocities. In this context, my delegation 
would like to seize the opportunity of this meeting to 
reiterate  its  commitment  and  support  to  the  Court,  a 
support  that  we  have  afforded  to  the  Court  since  its 
inception.  In  line  with  Cyprus’s  role  as  a  focal  point 
within the Assembly of States Parties for the promotion 
of universality and the full implementation of the Rome 
Statute,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the  accession  of  the 
State of Palestine to the Rome Statute and to seize this 
opportunity  to  call  upon  States  not  parties  to  ratify 
the  Rome  Statute,  preferably  in  its  2010  version.  The 
universal ratification of the Rome Statute is crucial to 
the  application  of  the  principle  of  equality  before  the 
law and to the effective deterrence of the most serious 
crimes under international law. We also look forward 
to an early activation of the provisions on the crime of 
26/27 
15-35224
05/11/2015 
A/70/PV.48
aggression and encourage States parties that have not 
yet done so to ratify the Kampala amendments.
It is always worthwhile to remind ourselves and the 
international  community  that  the  very  creation  of  the 
ICC was thought by many to be a mission impossible. 
Yet, for the last 13 years, the Court has been making 
a  perceptible  contribution  to  the  advancement  of 
international  justice.  For  this  reason,  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus  would,  in  welcoming  this  year’s  report  of  the 
ICC,  like  to  reiterate  its  unwavering  support  to  the 
Court.  It  is  our  conviction  that,  through  universality, 
cooperation  and  complementarity,  the  current  and 
future challenges of the Court can be overcome. States 
parties,  especially,  ought  to  continue  promoting  the 
independence, credibility and efficiency of the Court. 
We very much welcome the example of complementarity 
with regard to the preliminary examination in Guinea 
mentioned in the report and share the hope that it will 
serve  as  a  successful  cooperation  model  for  other 
situations.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item for this meeting.
The  representative  of  the  Sudan  has  requested  to 
speak  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind 
members that statements in the exercise of the right of 
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first statement 
and to five minutes for the second statement and should 
be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Saeed  (Sudan)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  The 
delegation  of  the  Sudan  would  like  to  take  the  floor 
to respond to the representative of Slovenia, who had 
the  audacity  to  make  an  undiplomatic  reference  to 
the  Sudan  and  the  President  of  our  Republic  in  his 
statement, even though we all here work in the area of 
diplomacy. In his statement, he named the President of 
our  Republic  without  giving  him  his  title,  even  while 
knowing that he is the President of a State Member of 
the United Nations. The Sudan was the first State in the 
sub-Saharan region to achieve independence, some 60 
years ago.
The case of the International Criminal Court (ICC) 
involving the Sudan is political in the extreme and has 
nothing to do with justice. It is an example of selectivity, 
politicization and double standards. It is also an attempt 
to  undermine  the  stability  and  development  of  the 
Sudan,  as  well  as  its  territorial  security  and  integrity 
and its political independence. All this is surely quite 
clear  to  the  representative  of  Slovenia,  who  must  be 
aware of these principles and this reality.
The  reference  by  the  representative  of  Slovenia 
is  unacceptable,  inappropriate  and  not  in  line  with 
diplomatic  custom.  It  echoes  well-known  positions 
against the Sudan, its people and its leadership, including 
the symbol of the Sudan, which is the President of the 
Republic.  The  fact  that  the  representative  of  Slovenia 
highlighted this matter makes the State of Slovenia a tool 
used by the International Criminal Court to echo well-
known positions. That is strange and unacceptable. The 
delegation of the Sudan expresses its strong rejection of 
the reference by the representative of Slovenia.
The meeting rose at 6 p.m.
15-35224
27/27
