United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
55th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 17 November 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.55
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Terrorist attacks
The  President:  Before  proceeding  to  the  item  on 
our  agenda,  I  should  like,  on  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  to  express  my  sincere  condolences  and 
deepest sympathy to the Governments and the peoples 
of  the  countries  that  have  recently  suffered  heinous 
terrorist  attacks.  I  think  we  have  all  been  deeply 
saddened,  shocked  and  outraged  by  the  loss  of  life 
and incredible carnage in recent weeks in many places 
around  the  world,  among  them  Ankara  and  Baghdad, 
over the Sinai, in Beirut and, this past weekend, in Paris. 
We mourn with those who have lost their friends and 
loved ones and those whose lives are deeply shattered 
or destroyed.
The  disregard  for  human  life  and  human  dignity 
displayed  by  groups  such  as  Daesh,  Boko  Haram, 
Al-Shabaab, Al-Qaida and others is a mortal threat to 
the values that bring us together at the United Nations.
In these most difficult moments, when pain and grief 
can  so  swiftly  turn  to  anger  and  intolerance,  we,  the 
General Assembly, must stand together, united in our 
collective  resolve  to  advance  peace,  justice,  human 
rights and prosperity for all.
In memory of the victims and in a sign of solidarity, 
I would like to invite everyone in the Hall to observe a 
minute of silence.
The members of the General Assembly observed a 
minute of silence.
Agenda item 87
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting 
the report of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (A/70/219)
Draft resolution (A/70/L.8)
The  President:  I  invite  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency, to introduce the report of the Agency for the 
year 2014.
Mr. Amano (International Atomic Energy Agency): 
Let me begin by expressing my horror at the appalling 
acts  of  terrorism  that  took  place  in  Paris  last  Friday 
within hours of the dreadful attack in Beirut. On behalf 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), I 
offer my sympathy and support to the Governments and 
the peoples of France and Lebanon.
The  world  needs  us  to  respond,  but  that  response 
must  be  considered.  It  must  be  comprehensive  and 
sustained. It must, above all, seek to advance a political 
solution  to  the  conflict  in  Syria  and,  guided  by  a 
commitment to international law, focus on addressing 
the root causes of terrorism and violent extremism.
The  IAEA  has  had  another  eventful  year  since  I 
last  had  the  honour  to  address  the  General  Assembly 
(see A/69/PV.37). There were important developments 
in  relation  to  the  Iran  nuclear  issue.  I  will  talk  about 
that in some detail in a moment, but I would first like 
to  say  that  I  very  much  welcome  the  adoption  of  the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-37040 (E)
*1537040*
A/70/PV.55 
17/11/2015
Sustainable Development Goals (see resolution 70/1) by 
world  leaders  at  the  General  Assembly  in  September. 
There  are  clear  links  between  the  new  Goals  and  the 
work  of  the  IAEA.  Areas  covered  by  both  include 
energy, food security and nutrition, human health and 
the protection of the oceans and management of water 
resources, and climate change. I am especially pleased 
that  there  is  explicit  recognition  in  the  new  Goals  of 
the importance of science and technology in advancing 
development,  something  I  have  stressed  in  previous 
statements to the Assembly. The Agency has so much 
to offer in that area that I often summarize our work as 
“atoms for peace and development”. I also welcome the 
inclusion of new Goals concerning non-communicable 
diseases, including cancer, which is an important area 
of the IAEA’s work.
to 
to  contribute  effectively 
Since  I  last  addressed  the  Assembly,  the  IAEA 
has  continued 
the 
development  needs  of  member  States  by  transferring 
nuclear  technology  through  our  technical  cooperation 
programme.  We  also  demonstrated  our  ability  to 
respond  quickly  to  crises  in  member  States.  After 
the  earthquake  in  Nepal  in  April,  the  Agency  helped 
the  country’s  authorities  to  test  the  structural  safety 
of  critical  buildings  such  as  hospitals  and  schools, 
using  non-destructive  testing  techniques,  including 
radiography. Following the outbreak of Ebola in West 
Africa, we provided equipment and diagnostic kits for 
rapid identification of the virus. We have since helped 
countries  of  the  region  to  build  or  strengthen  their 
capacity  to  respond  to  possible  future  outbreaks  of 
Ebola and other deadly diseases.
The  IAEA  Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer 
Therapy assists member States in integrating radiation 
medicine into comprehensive cancer-control strategies. 
The IAEA has invested nearly €300 million in cancer 
and radiotherapy projects throughout the world in the 
past few decades. Our work helps to save many lives, 
but  developing  countries’  need  for  access  to  effective 
cancer treatment remains great. The inclusion of targets 
for  non-communicable  diseases,  including  cancer,  in 
the Sustainable Development Goals gives me hope that 
much  more  will  be  done  to  address  the  issue  in  the 
coming decades.
Preparations  for  a  long-overdue  renovation  of  the 
IAEA nuclear applications laboratories in Seibersdorf, 
near  Vienna,  are  well  under  way.  The  laboratories 
train  scientists  from  all  over  the  world,  support 
research  in  human  health,  food  and  other  areas,  and 
provide  analytical  services  to  national  laboratories. 
Almost all IAEA member States receive support from 
them.  The  target  date  for  completion  of  the  first  new 
lab,  the  Insect  Pest  Control  Laboratory,  is  the  end  of 
2017.  Construction  of  the  second  lab  will  begin  once 
sufficient  extrabudgetary  funding  is  available.  The 
laboratories  are  the  engine  of  much  of  the  technical 
support  that  we  provide  to  member  States.  They  will 
constitute an important part of the IAEA’s contribution 
to  the  achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals. I thank the countries that have already provided 
or pledged support for the modernization project. I call 
on all Member States in a position to do so to contribute 
generously.
in 
to 
This  year’s  IAEA  Scientific  Forum  in  September 
was  entitled  “Atoms 
Industry”.  Participants 
considered  the  key  role  that  nuclear  technologies 
play  in  areas  ranging  from  the  production  of  high-
performance materials to the control of pollutants that 
cause  disease.  At  the  end  of  the  year,  representatives 
from more than 190 countries will meet in Paris for the 
twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change. Many countries believe that nuclear power can 
help  them  to  address  the  twin  challenges  of  ensuring 
reliable energy supplies while curbing greenhouse-gas 
emissions.  Nuclear  power  has  a  low  environmental 
impact  and 
significant  avoidance  of 
greenhouse-gas  emissions.  I  believe  that  appropriate 
consideration should be given to nuclear power in talks 
on climate change mitigation under the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change.  There 
are  now  441  nuclear-power  reactors,  operating  in  30 
countries. Together, they provide approximately 11 per 
cent  of  the  world’s  electricity.  There  are  65  reactors 
under  construction,  mostly  in  Asia.  The  IAEA  helps 
countries  that  choose  to  use  nuclear  power  to  do  so 
safely, securely and sustainably. 
leads 
In  August,  I  signed  a  host  State  agreement  and  a 
related  technical  agreement  with  the  Government  of 
Kazakhstan establishing an IAEA bank of low-enriched 
uranium (LEU) in that country. The IAEA LEU bank is 
a mechanism of last resort to give countries confidence 
that they will be able to obtain LEU to make fuel for 
nuclear-power plants in case of an unforeseen disruption 
to  supply  that  cannot  be  remedied  by  commercial 
means.  I  am  grateful  to  Kazakhstan  for  hosting  the 
IAEA LEU bank.
2/28 
15-37040
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.55
My report on the 2011 Fukushima Daiichi accident 
was  released  in  September,  along  with  five  technical 
volumes. I believe that that IAEA report will be the key 
reference document on the accident for years to come 
and will help to improve nuclear safety throughout the 
world. Turning briefly to nuclear security, I am pleased 
to report that the 2005 Amendment to the Convention 
on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material  has 
moved  closer  to  entry  into  force.  However,  accession 
by 13 countries is still necessary. The entry into force 
of the Amendment would reduce both the likelihood of 
terrorists being able to detonate a dirty bomb and the 
risk of a terrorist attack on a nuclear installation. I ask 
all countries that have not yet done so to accede to this 
important  nuclear  security  instrument  as  a  matter  of 
urgency. 
I  now  turn  to  nuclear  verification.  Safeguards 
agreements are now in force with 182 States. However, 
12 non-nuclear-weapon States parties have yet to meet 
their obligation under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  to  conclude  a  comprehensive 
safeguards agreements with the Agency. I urge all those 
States to conclude such agreements as soon as possible. 
I am pleased to report that the number of States with 
additional  protocols  in  force  continues  to  increase.  It 
now stands at 126. That is very encouraging, because 
the  additional  protocol  is  essential  for  the  Agency  to 
be able to provide credible assurance that there are no 
undeclared nuclear material and activities in a country. 
The nuclear programme of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea is a matter of serious concern. The 
Agency  remains  unable  to  undertake  verification  in 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  and  our 
knowledge  of  the  country’s  nuclear  programme  is 
therefore limited. Nevertheless, we have maintained our 
readiness to return to the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea if requested to do so. I call on the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  comply  fully  with  its 
obligations,  cooperate  promptly  with  the  Agency  and 
resolve all outstanding issues, including those that have 
arisen  during  the  absence  of  Agency  inspectors  from 
the country.
As the Assembly will recall, in May 2011 I reported 
that it was very likely that a building destroyed at the 
Dayr  al-Zour  site  in  Syria  was  a  nuclear  reactor  that 
should have been declared to the Agency. The Agency 
has not received any new information that would affect 
that assessment. I again urge Syria to cooperate fully 
with the Agency in connection with unresolved issues 
related to the Dayr al-Zour site and other locations. 
have 
been 
There 
important 
developments 
concerning  the  implementation  of  IAEA  safeguards 
in  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran.  In  July,  Iran  and  the 
P5+1 countries agreed on a Joint Comprehensive Plan 
of  Action.  The  Security  Council  asked  the  IAEA  to 
undertake verification and monitoring of Iran’s nuclear-
related  commitments  under  the  Joint  Comprehensive 
Plan of Action, and our Board of Governors authorized 
us to do so. Iran will implement the Additional Protocol 
to  its  Safeguards  Agreement  with  the  IAEA.  That  is 
a powerful verification tool that will give the Agency 
greater  access  to  information  and  locations  in  Iran. 
Iran also agreed to implement a number of additional 
transparency measures that go beyond the scope of the 
Additional Protocol and will help the Agency to better 
understand  Iran’s  nuclear  activities.  Also  in  July,  I 
signed a road map with Iran for the clarification of the 
possible  military  dimensions  to  the  country’s  nuclear 
programme  by  the  end  of  this  year.  Activities  set  out 
in the road map were completed by the target date of 
15 October. We are now finalizing our analysis of all 
the information at our disposal. I will present my final 
assessment  on  all  past  and  present  outstanding  issues 
to the IAEA Board of Governors by 15 December. My 
report  will  be  factual,  objective  and  impartial.  Our 
member States will determine the appropriate response. 
Much work remains to be done, but I believe that 
the significant progress made on the Iran nuclear issue 
represents a real success for diplomacy. It demonstrates 
that  even  complex  and  challenging  issues  can  be 
tackled  effectively  if  all  the  parties  are  committed  to 
dialogue — not dialogue for its own sake, but dialogue 
aimed  at  achieving  results.  In  the  case  of  Iran,  the 
sustained efforts of the IAEA, the P5+1 countries, the 
Security Council and, of course, Iran itself have got us 
to where we are today. The IAEA was able to make a 
vital contribution by sticking to its technical mandate 
and not straying into politics. The agreements reached 
in July represent a clear net gain for the IAEA from the 
verification  point  of  view.  The  Agency  will  continue 
to implement safeguards in Iran with a view to being 
able  in  due  course  to  draw  what  we  call  the  broader 
conclusion,  that  all  nuclear  material  continues  to  be 
intended for peaceful purposes.
Many of our 166 countries face financial difficulties 
that  are  likely  to  continue  in  the  coming  years.  This 
means  that  our  budget  will  remain  under  pressure. 
15-37040
3/28
A/70/PV.55 
17/11/2015
The  Agency  will  seek  to  maintain  a  balance  between 
budgetary  constraints  and  the  increasing  demand  for 
our  services  from  our  growing  membership.  We  will 
continue  to  prioritize  and  seek  efficiencies,  while 
being careful not to undermine the high quality of our 
services to member States.
We  have  intensified  our  efforts  to  increase  the 
number  of  staff  recruited  from  developing  countries 
or  from  member  States  that  are  underrepresented  or 
not represented at all, especially at senior levels. Good 
progress has been made in improving the representation 
of  women  in  the  IAEA  secretariat,  but  more  needs 
to  be  done.  I  remain  committed  to  expanding  the 
opportunities  available  to  women,  who  make  an 
enormous contribution to the work of the Agency, and 
I encourage member States to actively help us achieve 
our ultimate goal of equal gender representation.
Despite  our  limited  resources,  the  IAEA  remains 
an organization that delivers concrete results. We will 
continue  to  fulfil  our  broad  mandate  in  a  balanced 
manner, working to improve the well-being and security 
of the people of the world through the peaceful use of 
nuclear science and technology.
The President: I thank the Director General for his 
introduction of the report of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency.
I now give the floor to the representative of Brazil 
to introduce draft resolution A/70/L.8.
Mr.  De  Aguiar  Patriota  (Brazil):  Let  me  offer 
the  condolences  of  the  Brazilian  Government  to  the 
people and the Governments of the countries affected 
by  the  recent  terrorist  attacks.  We  fully  subscribe  to 
your  statement  at  the  start  of  our  proceedings  today, 
Mr. President, which fully expresses the sentiments of 
the General Assembly.
I would like to thank Mr. Yukiya Amano, Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA),  for  presenting  the  Agency’s  2014  report  (see 
A/70/219) and for providing updates on its activities in 
2015.
Brazil  attaches  great  importance  to  the  peaceful 
applications  of  nuclear  energy,  from  human  health, 
medicine  and  the  production  of  radioisotopes  to 
the  nuclear  fuel  cycle,  power  generation,  industry, 
agriculture  and  environmental  protection.  Nuclear 
the 
technology  can  play  an 
important 
role 
in 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1).
We  fully  support  the  IAEA’s  implementation  of 
safeguards as well as efforts to achieve more efficiency 
in their application. In so doing, we must continue to 
ensure  that  States’  obligations  are  met  and  that  the 
Agency  takes  into  account  the  various  scopes  and 
corresponding  safeguards  measures  derived  from 
the  distinct  categories  of  agreements  entered  into  by 
member States. The synergy between General Assembly 
resolutions, the three interrelated pillars of the Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  the 
IAEA’s  statutory  functions,  including  that  of  acting 
“in  conformity  with  policies  of  the  United  Nations 
furthering the establishment of safeguarded worldwide 
disarmament”, is becoming increasingly apparent. The 
IAEA  has  conducted  essential  verification  activities 
in  the  past,  either  in  country-specific  situations  or 
pursuant  to  requests  from  interested  States  parties  to 
disarmament  agreements.  That  role,  which  has  been 
highlighted  in  successive  IAEA  General  Conference 
resolutions, must be supported, and the IAEA secretariat 
should stand ready to perform such tasks in the future.
Brazil acknowledges the central role of the IAEA 
in  strengthening 
framework 
globally,  in  an  inclusive,  transparent  and  multilateral 
manner. We look forward to next year’s IAEA nuclear-
security conference, which will represent a significant 
opportunity for high-level consideration of the issue. It 
is  our  firm  conviction  that  nuclear  security  activities 
must  be  carried  out  in  tandem  with  the  international 
community’s  broader  efforts 
to  promote  nuclear 
disarmament,  non-proliferation  and  the  peaceful  uses 
of nuclear energy.
the  nuclear-security 
in 
Brazil  is  honoured  to  chair  the  IAEA  Board 
of  Governors, 
the  person  of  our  Permanent 
Representative  to  the  Agency,  Ambassador  Laércio 
Vinhas.  It  is  therefore  my  pleasure  to  introduce, 
under  agenda  item  87,  the  draft  resolution  entitled 
“Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency”, 
contained in document A/70/L.8. This draft resolution, 
considered annually by the General Assembly, derives 
from a requirement pursuant to the IAEA Statute and 
the  agreement  governing  the  relationship  between 
the  IAEA  and  the  United  Nations.  It  constitutes  an 
opportunity  for  Member  States  to  be  apprised  of  the 
Agency’s activities and to express their support for its 
work.
4/28 
15-37040
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.55
The draft resolution before the General Assembly 
was  discussed  in  October  and  early  November  in 
Vienna,  and  informal  consultations  were  also  held  in 
New  York  last  week.  The  text  is  being  introduced  on 
the  basis  of  resolution  69/7,  of  November  2014,  and 
contains  technical  updates  only.  It  takes  note  of  the 
annual report of the IAEA and of resolutions adopted by 
the General Conference at its fifty-ninth session, from 
14 to 18 September 2015. It reaffirms strong support for 
the  Agency’s  role  in  the  application  of  atomic  energy 
for peaceful purposes. It also calls on Member States to 
continue supporting IAEA activities. As was the case 
last year, the adoption of today’s draft resolution will 
send a strong political signal of support for the work of 
the  Agency  in  its  various  fields,  such  as  cooperation, 
safety, security and verification.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  Russia  has  carefully  studied  the  annual 
report  (see  A/70/219)  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  for  2014,  prepared  by  the 
Director  General  of  the  Agency,  and  the  additional 
information  on  it.  We  note  that  an  annex  to  the 
report  contains  the  factually  inaccurate  assertion 
that  during  the  reporting  period  of  2014,  Sevastopol 
was  allegedly  part  of  Ukraine.  That  knowingly  false 
statement  ignores  the  fact  that  in  a  referendum  held 
after  the  illegal  coup  in  Kyiv  of  February  2014,  the 
population of Crimea, including the city of Sevastopol, 
voted  to  secede  from  Ukraine  and  for  reunification 
with  the  Russian  Federation.  The  people’s  will  was 
implemented.  Afterwards,  we  officially 
informed 
the  IAEA  secretariat  that  the  relevant  installations  in 
Crimea were under Russian jurisdiction, and we asked 
the Agency to apply safeguards to them in accordance 
with our Safeguards Agreement.
For  those  reasons,  the  Russian  Federation  cannot 
accept, and fully rejects, any statements in the annual 
report and its annexes, or any other Agency documents, 
that contradict that objective reality. As far as we are 
concerned, they are legally and politically null and void. 
We note that in the notes to the annual report for 2014, and 
in regard to the data in the list of nuclear installations, 
reference is made to the Agency’s statement that it does 
not express any opinion whatsoever concerning the legal 
status of any country or territory or of its authorities, 
or  concerning  the  delimitation  of  its  frontiers.  While 
we have taken that reference into consideration, it does 
not relieve us of our duty to express the aforementioned 
reservation.  The  Russian  delegation  first  stated  it  at 
the  June  meeting  of  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors 
in  Vienna.  At  our  request,  the  text  of  the  reservation 
was  distributed  by  the  IAEA  secretariat  as  Agency 
document INFCIRC/876. The reservation was part of a 
compromise on the approval of the report by the Board 
of Governors and the General Conference of the IAEA, 
which was a precondition for Russia’s consent.
In  the  process  of  working  on  the  draft  resolution 
entitled  “Report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency”  (A/70/L.8)  in  Vienna,  our  country  showed 
maximum  flexibility  in  order  to  keep  open  the 
possibility that it could be adopted by consensus. It was 
merely a question of having the draft resolution make 
reference to our reservation on the annual report of the 
IAEA in the text. Furthermore, we do not object to the 
expression of alternative views.
Unfortunately,  a  number  of  States  and  the  IAEA 
secretariat choose to ignore objective reality. Not only 
do  they  deny  the  fact  that  Crimea  is  an  integral  part 
of Russia, but they also wish to overlook the fact that 
our  country  has  expressed  a  reservation  with  respect 
to the IAEA annual report. It seems that they prefer to 
find themselves in a world of pleasant illusions. In this 
situation we cannot support the proposed draft resolution 
before the General Assembly. It is truly regrettable that, 
after such a long time, the draft resolution, which has 
always  been  adopted  by  consensus,  will  cease  to  be 
so  adopted.  But  we  cannot  support  illusions  that  run 
counter to reality.
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the European Union.
Mr. Vrailas (European Union): I have the honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  The 
candidate  countries  Turkey, 
the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Albania; the 
European Free Trade Association country Liechtenstein, 
a member of the European Economic Area; as well as 
Ukraine, the Republic of Moldova and Georgia, align 
themselves with this statement.
We are pleased to support draft resolution A/70/L.8 
on the report (see A/70/219) of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA), a report that again reaffirms 
the indispensable role of the Agency with regard to the 
non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  and  in  assisting 
the  development  and  practical  application  of  atomic 
energy for peaceful uses, in technology transfer and in 
nuclear safety, verification and security.
15-37040
5/28
A/70/PV.55 
17/11/2015
The European Union is fully committed to promoting 
universal  accession  to  nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
disarmament  agreements.  We  consider  the  Treaty  on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) to be 
the cornerstone of the global nuclear non-proliferation 
regime,  the  essential  foundation  for  the  pursuit  of 
nuclear disarmament, in accordance with article VI of 
the NPT, and vital for further development of nuclear 
energy applications for peaceful purposes.
We  call  upon  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to 
join  the  Treaty  as  non-nuclear-weapon  States.  While 
the EU regrets that consensus could not be reached on a 
final document at this year’s NPT Review Conference, 
it remains committed to the establishment of a Middle 
East zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons 
of mass destruction in line with the 1995 resolution on 
the  Middle  East.  We  also  note  with  satisfaction  the 
amount  of  strong  support  that  was  expressed  for  the 
Agency’s work.
The 2010 NPT Review Conference reaffirmed the 
role of the IAEA in verifying and assuring compliance 
by States with their safeguards obligations and stressed 
the importance of resolving all cases of non-compliance 
and  of  States  parties  responding  resolutely  and 
effectively  in  such  cases.  The  European  Union  is 
deeply  concerned  about  the  protracted  and  serious 
challenges to the non-proliferation regime posed by the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the Syrian 
Arab Republic. 
The  European  Union  welcomes 
the  historic 
agreement  of  14  July  between  the  E3/EU+3  and  Iran 
on  a  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action,  in  full 
conformity  with  NPT  principles  and  endorsed  by 
Security Council resolution 2231 (2015). The full and 
sustained implementation of the Plan of Action requires 
the application and subsequent ratification by Iran of the 
Additional Protocol to its Safeguards Agreement. The 
Additional Protocol is an essential prerequisite for the 
Agency to be able to provide credible assurance about 
the absence of undeclared nuclear material and activities 
in Iran and provide the international community with 
the  necessary  assurances  on  the  exclusively  peaceful 
nature  of  Iran’s  nuclear  programme.  The  provisional 
application  and  subsequent  early  ratification  by  Iran 
of  the  Additional  Protocol  would  demonstrate  Iran’s 
commitment to the normalization of the nuclear issue.
The  European  Union  would  like  to  stress  again 
that  the  Security  Council,  as  the  final  arbiter  of 
international peace and security, has a mandate to take 
appropriate action in the event of non-compliance with 
NPT  obligations,  including  safeguards  agreements. 
The  Agency’s  system  of  safeguards  is  a  fundamental 
component of the nuclear non-proliferation regime and 
plays an indispensable role in the implementation of the 
NPT. The measures contained in the Model Additional 
Protocol form an integral part of the IAEA safeguards 
system and, in the EU’s view, comprehensive safeguards 
agreements 
additional  protocols 
constitute the current IAEA verification standard. We 
call for their universalization without delay. 
together  with 
The  EU  has  firmly  supported  the  continued 
evolution  of  safeguards,  with  a  view  to  achieving 
the  efficient  and  effective  implementation  of  IAEA 
safeguards  worldwide.  We  are  grateful  for  the  wide 
support  received  from  IAEA  member  States,  at  the 
recent IAEA General Conference, for the EU-sponsored 
resolution  on  strengthening  the  effectiveness  and 
improving the efficiency of Agency safeguards.
The  European  Union  attaches  importance  to  the 
highest standards of nuclear safety being implemented 
and  continuously  improved  in  the  EU  and  promoted 
internationally. Last year the Council of the European 
Union  adopted  a  renewed  directive  to  strengthen 
the  safety  framework  for  nuclear  installations.  This 
directive  sets  the  objective  of  preventing  accidents 
and, should they occur, mitigating their consequences 
and avoiding early and large radioactive releases. The 
Vienna Declaration on Nuclear Safety, adopted earlier 
this year by the Contracting Parties to the Convention 
on Nuclear Safety (CNS) sets forth similar principles, 
and we will give serious attention to the implementation 
of the decisions taken in the Vienna Declaration, among 
others, in preparation for, and participation in, future 
review meetings of the CNS.
Within  the  framework  of  its  strategy  against  the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  the  EU 
is  actively  supporting  Security  Council  resolutions 
1540  (2004)  and  1887  (2009)  together  with  other 
international  initiatives,  such  as  the  Global  Initiative 
to  Combat  Nuclear  Terrorism,  the  Global  Partnership 
against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass 
Destruction and the Nuclear Security Summit process, 
that  contribute  to  strengthening  nuclear  security.  Out 
of  €260  million  dedicated  to  chemical,  biological, 
radiological  and  nuclear  (CBRN)  risk  mitigation 
worldwide, more than €100 million has been allocated 
6/28 
15-37040
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.55
to  the  EU’s  regional  CBRN  Centres  of  Excellence 
Initiative.
The  European  Union  strongly  supports  IAEA 
activities in the area of nuclear security and is, together 
with its member States, among the main contributors to 
the Nuclear Security Fund. Approximately €40 million 
from  EU  funds  and  another  €45  million  from  EU 
member  States  have  been  contributed  to  the  Nuclear 
Security  Fund  to  date,  for  the  benefit  of  about  100 
countries. We intend to continue to support the IAEA’s 
work.  The  EU  looks  forward  to  the  next  high-level 
IAEA  International  Conference  on  Nuclear  Security, 
which will take place in December 2016, and calls on 
all IAEA member States to participate at a high level.
Effective  physical  protection  is  of  the  utmost 
importance to preventing nuclear material from falling 
into  the  hands  of  terrorists  and  proliferators  and  to 
protecting nuclear facilities against malicious acts. The 
European Union urges all States that have not yet done 
so to become party to the Convention on the Physical 
Protection of Nuclear Material and to accede to its 2005 
Amendment. All EU member States have now ratified 
the 2005 amendment to the Convention. The European 
Union  furthermore  calls  on  States  that  have  not  yet 
done so to make a political commitment to using in an 
effective  manner  the  recommendations  set  out  in  the 
IAEA Code of Conduct on the Safety and Security of 
Radioactive  Sources  and  its  supplementary  guidance 
on the import and export of such materials.
Finally,  the  European  Union  attaches  the  utmost 
importance  to  the  Agency’s  technical  cooperation 
programme and the role of the Agency in the responsible 
development  of  the  peaceful  applications  of  nuclear 
technology in the areas of, among things, human health, 
food and agriculture, water resources, environment, the 
preservation of cultural heritage, nuclear and radiation 
safety and nuclear energy. 
The  IAEA’s  nuclear  sciences  and  applications 
laboratories  at  Seibersdorf  contribute  essential  work 
in this respect, and we welcome the Director General’s 
initiative regarding the modernization of the laboratories. 
The EU also recognizes the valuable contribution that 
nuclear technology can provide in the attainment of the 
Sustainable Development Goals. The EU supports both 
the  IAEA  and  IAEA  member  States  in  the  peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  technology,  also  through  technical 
expertise, with a total amount of some €150 million per 
year. The EU has allocated €225 million over the period 
2014-2020 for the promotion of nuclear safety, radiation 
protection and the application of efficient and effective 
safeguards of nuclear material in third countries.
Ms. AlGharabally (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): The 
General  Assembly  is  today  considering  an  important 
item  on  its  agenda,  given  its  close  connection  with 
the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
in  particular  in  the  framework  of  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security and the prohibition of 
harmful non-peaceful nuclear materials.
We have read closely the report of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  (see  A/70/219)  for 
the  calendar  year  2014  and  support  it  in  letter  and 
in  spirit,  in  particular  the  activities  carried  out  in 
2014-2015.  We  pay  tribute  to  the  Director  General  of 
the  Agency,  Mr.  Amano,  as  well  as  his  Bureau  and 
the  various  departments  of  the  Agency,  for  the  great 
efforts they have made to enhance and promote the role 
of  the  Agency,  efforts  that  have  highlighted  the  work 
carried out to achieve peace, health and prosperity by 
employing nuclear energy throughout the world.
In that context, Kuwait congratulates Turkmenistan, 
Barbados,  and  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  as  well  as  the 
other countries that have joined the Agency, and wishes 
them  success  and  prosperity.  Economic  and  social 
development  needs  throughout  the  world  will  require 
increasing  energy  resources  in  future.  Since  nuclear 
energy  is  complementary,  not  alternative,  to  other 
energy  sources,  the  choice  to  use  it  must  be  made  by 
a  State’s  political  authorities.  Kuwait  fully  supports 
and  cooperates  with  the  various  departments  of  the 
Agency to promote the peaceful use of nuclear energy 
for building national and institutional capabilities.
We  aim  for  greater  consultation  and  cooperation 
between  our  national  institutions  and  the  Agency. 
That is why my country has contributed $3 million to 
strengthen the activities of the Agency — $500,000 to 
the Monaco Laboratory, $1 million to the Seibersdorf 
laboratories  and  $1.5  million  to  the  Peaceful  Uses 
Initiative.
In  the  framework  of  scientific  initiatives  and 
programmes  aimed  at  assisting  developing  countries, 
His  Highness  Sheikh  Sabah  Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber 
Al-Sabah,  Crown  Prince  of  Kuwait,  announced  an 
annual prize of $1 million for the best research projects 
and initiatives for the development of African countries 
in the area of health, food and education.
15-37040
7/28
A/70/PV.55 
17/11/2015
The  Agency’s  technical  cooperation  programme 
is  key  to  national  capacity-building  in  developing 
countries.  Kuwait  has  always  supported  cooperation 
activities.  We  welcome  the  efforts  undertaken  by  the 
Agency in the technical cooperation region of the Asia-
Pacific, which include regional seminars and training 
courses,  which  have  a  great  positive  effect  on  the 
promotion of capacity-building in those countries. We 
hope to see additional close and effective cooperation 
efforts  in  that  respect  and  thank  the  Agency  for  its 
efforts and its visits to Kuwait.
We  believe  that  the  accession  of  all  Member 
States that have nuclear facilities to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is vital. I should 
like  also  to  congratulate  Iran  and  the  P5+1  on  the 
historic  accord  concluded  in  Vienna  and  for  Security 
Council resolution 2231 (2015), which will ease tension 
and strengthen stability in the region, making use of the 
full potential of the countries of the region to achieve 
progress and prosperity in the region.
We  are 
therefore 
following  attentively 
the 
implementation  of  the  security  agreement  for  nuclear 
facilities by encouraging the use of nuclear energy for 
peaceful purposes. We invite Iran to engage in greater 
cooperation with the Agency, in full transparency. We 
also hope that the historic agreement between the P5+1 
and Iran will be an incentive for Iran to accede to other 
nuclear treaties, so that it can make use of the Agency’s 
knowledge in promoting security at its nuclear facilities 
and in the region.
Kuwait attaches particular importance to expanding 
the  Agency’s  safeguards  system  in  the  Middle  East 
region  to  cover  all  nuclear  activities,  given  that  the 
Agency is the specialized body that has the mandate to 
monitor and carry out this work.
Nevertheless,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  most 
countries in the region have concluded such safeguards 
agreements,  we  note  with  deep  regret  that  Israel  has 
still  not  acceded  to  the  Treaty  or  placed  its  nuclear 
facilities under IAEA safeguards, thereby threatening 
the security and stability of the region. This presents a 
major obstacle to the creation in the Middle East of a 
zone free of nuclear weapons, which is clearly a negative 
stance with respect to the stability of the region and the 
world. We have all been witness to the continued efforts 
to block the holding of a conference on the creation of 
such a zone, striving to create a region free of nuclear 
weapons and other weapons of mass destruction in the 
Middle East.
Following  a  number  of  studies  and  technical 
consulations  over  a  period  of  10  years,  the  Agency 
created the first bank of low-enriched uranium, signing 
an agreement with Kazakhstan under which the latter 
will host this nuclear-fuel bank.
We commend Russia on its signing with the Agency 
of a transit agreement for the transport of low-enriched 
uranium, which will allow several countries to obtain 
nuclear  fuel  for  their  peaceful  activities.  This  great 
achievement, which took place on 27 August, reflects 
the  generous  contributions  of  several  donor  countries 
in response to the appeal made by the former Director 
General of the IAEA, Mr. ElBaradei, who played a key 
role in achieving this goal.
The central objective of the bank is to enable States 
to have access to low-enriched uranium for their nuclear 
laboratories and activities for peaceful purposes, with 
the  goal  of  creating  a  safer  and  more  secure  world. 
To  that  end,  Kuwait  has  contributed  $10  million  to 
strengthen IAEA activities. 
In conclusion, Kuwait is committed to continuing 
its support for the Agency’s leading efforts and effective 
contributions to achieving sustainable development in a 
number  of  developing  countries  in  order  to  overcome 
obstacles in the areas of the economy, finance, health 
care, food and climate change. That will clearly add to 
the safety, well-being, prosperity and happiness of all 
countries in the world. 
Mr. Luque Márquez (Ecuador) (spoke in French): 
At the outset, I would like to express our condemnation 
of  the  terrorist  attacks  that  took  place  last  Friday  in 
Paris,  our  condolences  and  our  solidarity  with  the 
people and the Government of France. As the President 
of  Ecuador,  Rafael  Correa,  said,  our  hearts  are  with 
France and the families of those who were victims of 
the terrorist brutality.
(spoke in Spanish)
We  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  for  presenting  the  Agency’s  annual 
report (see A/70/219).
For  Ecuador,  the  peaceful  applications  of  nuclear 
energy  are  of  special  importance  because  of  their 
contribution  to  development  in  some  particularly 
8/28 
15-37040
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.55
technical 
important  areas,  such  as  health  care,  agriculture  and 
industry.  On  that  account,  we  would  like  the  IAEA 
to  further  enhance  its  activities  relating  to  science, 
technology and nuclear applications and to strengthen 
its 
cooperation  programme.  Ecuador 
wishes  to  highlight  the  key  role  that  that  programme 
performs  in  meeting  one  of  the  central  objectives 
of  the  IAEA  Statute,  namely,  the  promotion  of  the 
peaceful  application  of  nuclear  energy.  We  therefore 
acknowledge the efforts carried out to provide a more 
effective  programme,  intended  to  meet  the  needs  and 
match the priorities of the IAEA member States. 
Accordingly,  we  wish  to  stress  that  the  technical 
cooperation  programme 
in  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  countries  once  again  recorded  the  highest 
implementation  rate  of  all  regions  over  the  past  year. 
That  shows  the  importance  of  those  activities  for  our 
region and the interest shown by Latin American and 
Caribbean  countries  in  implementing  joint  activities 
with  the  IAEA.  It  is  in  that  same  context  that  the 
Regional Cooperative Agreement for the Advancement 
of  Nuclear  Science  and  Technology  in  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean has played a key role. We are therefore 
convinced that implementation of the regional strategic 
profile that defines and prioritizes areas of cooperation 
with  the  IAEA  for  the  period  2016-2017  will  help  to 
increase the number of projects that have an important 
impact on the lives of our citizens.
Ecuador  has  made  progress  in  drafting  a  new 
atomic  energy  bill  that  will  harmonize  our  national 
legislation  with  the  main  areas  of  work  of  the  IAEA 
and with the new basic safety standards that have been 
adopted internationally. The bill will soon benefit from 
the input of an IAEA mission before being submitted 
to our National Assembly, where it will be debated. In 
the  near  future,  we  will  also  have  in  place  a  law  on 
the  management  and  transport  of  nuclear  and  other 
radioactive materials and a national emergency response 
plan  for  radiological  accidents.  Additionally, 
the 
Department of Nuclear Applications and Management 
in our Ministry of Electricity and Renewable Energy is 
developing a process for reviewing technical standards 
that  will  include  support  services  to  the  regulatory 
authority. In that regard, Ecuador is giving priority to 
strengthening the regulatory authority by encouraging 
the  construction  of  new  laboratories  for  nuclear 
applications. That will be a significant step forward for 
my country and, to that end, we are counting in advance 
on  the  IAEA’s  cooperation  in  terms  of  providing  the 
appropriate training and technology.
The  Constitution  of  Ecuador  condemns 
the 
development and use of weapons of mass destruction. 
True  to  that  principle,  we  proudly  reiterate  that  we 
are  part  of  the  first  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  a 
highly populated area, as established by the Treaty of 
Tlatelolco,  and  of  a  zone  of  peace,  as  proclaimed  by 
the  Heads  of  State  at  the  second  and  third  Summits 
of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States  (CELAC),  held  in  Havana  and  Belén,  Costa 
Rica.  Furthermore,  we  continue  to  firmly  believe  in 
the  full  implementation,  without  discrimination  or 
double standards, of the three pillars of the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). We 
reiterate  our  concern  because,  while  the  objectives  of 
the Treaty on Non-Proliferation and the exercise of the 
inalienable right to the peaceful use of nuclear energy 
have been implemented, there has been no progress on 
nuclear disarmament. We regret in no uncertain terms 
that because of the obstruction of three States, it was 
not  possible  to  adopt  the  final  document  of  the  2015 
NPT Review Conference. At the same time, I must also 
express  our  dissatisfaction  with  the  weakness  of  the 
contents of the chapter on nuclear disarmament in the 
draft final document of that Conference. I repeat that the 
nuclear-disarmament provisions of that draft document, 
circulated in the last hours of the Conference, cannot, 
as far as my country is concerned, serve as a precedent 
or a basis for progress towards nuclear disarmament. 
Ecuador,  along  with  the  other  CELAC  member 
States, has repeatedly expressed its profound concern 
about  the  enormous  humanitarian  consequences  and 
global impact of any accidental or intentional nuclear 
detonation. Accordingly, we believe that that issue must 
be raised every time the nuclear question is discussed. 
In that regard, we actively participated in conferences 
convened in Oslo, Nayarit and Vienna, and we again urge 
that States begin a diplomatic process for the adoption 
of a legally binding instrument for the prohibition and 
elimination of nuclear weapons. Ecuador encourages the 
IAEA to exercise its statutory function “in conformity 
with policies of the United Nations [of] furthering the 
establishment of safeguarded worldwide disarmament”, 
all the while preserving the highly technical nature of 
the Agency and avoiding politicization.
As a staunch defender of the right to the peaceful 
uses of nuclear energy, Ecuador has always recognized 
that any State that so wishes should be able to develop 
15-37040
9/28
A/70/PV.55 
17/11/2015
such peaceful uses within the framework of the NPT. 
Ecuador  was  therefore  very  pleased  with  the  news  of 
the conclusion of an agreement between the P5+1 and 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  the  establishment  of 
the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action regarding the 
Iranian nuclear programme. The agreement is a historic 
milestone  not  only  because  a  long-term  dispute  has 
been resolved through negotiations, but also and mainly 
because  dialogue  prevailed  over  unilateralism,  which 
has  caused  such  harm  in  contemporary  international 
relations.  It  was  a  reaffirmation  of  the  efficiency  of 
diplomacy in the quest for lasting peace.
In  conclusion,  I  wish 
to  reaffirm  Ecuador’s 
commitment  to  the  IAEA’s  aim  of  ensuring  that 
nuclear energy becomes safer, more efficient and more 
beneficial for all of humankind.
Mr. Hashmi (Pakistan): We thank Director General 
Amano for presenting the International Atomic Energy 
Agency’s  annual  report  for  2014  (see  A/70/219).  We 
commend him for his leadership and contribution.
For  more  than  five  decades,  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has worked successfully 
as a catalyst for enhancing the contribution of atomic 
energy to peace, health and prosperity throughout the 
world. The Agency has helped member States advance 
their development priorities while ensuring that nuclear 
science and technology are used in a safe, secure and 
sustainable manner. For that, the Agency deserves the 
deep appreciation of us all.
We  note  with  interest  the  Agency’s  projections 
for  2030,  which  continue  to  indicate  an  increase  in 
global nuclear power capacity. We share the Agency’s 
assessment  that  nuclear  energy  will  continue  to  be 
a  preferable  source  of  viable,  safe  and  sustainable 
alternative  in  future,  particularly  in  countries  with 
fast-growing  energy  needs.  That  appraisal  has  been 
reiterated in the Agency’s publication Climate Change 
and Nuclear Power 2014, which states that, apart from 
hydropower and wind power, nuclear power emits the 
smallest amount of greenhouse gases per kilowatt-hour 
of electricity produced. The publication also notes the 
importance of nuclear power in providing energy-supply 
security and other environmental and macroeconomic 
benefits.
Pakistan  is  a  strong  advocate  of  utilizing  nuclear 
technology  for  peace,  progress  and  prosperity  for  all. 
As the sixth most populous nation in the world, we are 
of the firm belief that socioeconomic development is a 
major priority for our country. For more than 55 years, 
we  have  sought  to  harness  the  application  of  nuclear 
technology  for  economic  and  social  development. 
The  Agency  has  been  a  valuable  partner  in  those 
efforts,  including  through  its  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme.
Pakistan’s  economy  is  on  an  upward  trajectory. 
Industrial,  agricultural  and  consumer  demand  for 
electricity has been growing. With a population of more 
than 180 million people and faced with a severe energy 
deficit, we are tapping into all sources — hydropower, 
solar and wind power and nuclear energy. Pakistan has 
five operational nuclear facilities, which include three 
nuclear  power  plants  and  two  research  reactors.  The 
oldest of them was commissioned in 1972. Besides those 
plants,  two  more,  producing  340  megawatts  each,  are 
expected to be commissioned next year. Work has also 
begun  on  two  larger,  third-generation  nuclear-power 
plants  of  1,100  megawatts  each.  With  the  completion 
of  those  two  units,  nuclear  power  will  begin  to  make 
a sizeable contribution to electricity generation in the 
country. Pakistan envisages a nuclear-power-generation 
capacity of 40,000 megawatts under its Nuclear Energy 
Vision 2050.
Although  we  have  more  than  four  decades  of 
experience of safely operating nuclear power plants, we 
remain mindful of and attach the highest importance to 
the safety and security of our current and future nuclear 
power plants. All nuclear power plants in Pakistan are 
under IAEA safeguards.
Pakistan  values  the  leading  role  that  the  Agency 
has  played  in  the  wake  of  the  Fukushima  accident 
in  harmonizing  and  coordinating  global  efforts  to 
improve nuclear safety of nuclear power plants. Under 
our  Fukushima  Response  Action  Plan,  immediate 
and  mid-term  actions  have  already  been  taken  and 
implemented.  Pakistan  also  interacts  with  the  IAEA, 
the  World  Association  of  Nuclear  Operators  (WANO) 
and others to enhance the safety of our nuclear-power 
plants. WANO expert missions regularly visit Pakistan 
to assess and suggest various safety measures for our 
power plants.
training  courses, 
Our  Centre  of  Excellence  for  Nuclear  Security 
conducts  specialized 
including 
at  the  regional  level,  in  the  physical  protection  of 
nuclear  materials  and  facilities,  material  control  and 
accounting,  personnel  reliability,  transport  security 
and other security-related areas. The Pakistan Institute 
10/28 
15-37040
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.55
of  Engineering  and  Applied  Sciences  offers  special 
courses  on  nuclear  security  and  physical  protection 
as  part  of  the  curriculum  in  the  nuclear  engineering 
programme. The Institute is also poised to be a regional 
and international hub for training.
Over the past decade, Pakistan’s nuclear regulatory 
mechanism  has  grown 
into  an  effective  system 
underpinned  by  a  robust  infrastructure.  The  Pakistan 
Nuclear Regulatory Authority has based its regulations 
on the IAEA safety standards. The Authority also offers 
itself for independent peer reviews. The Authority has 
very close links with the IAEA, both as a recipient and 
as a contributor. It has established a National Institute 
of  Safety  and  Security  for  facilitating  national  and 
regional  training  courses  on  nuclear  security.  It  is 
equipped with state-of-the-art laboratories for training 
in nuclear radiation safety, nuclear security and physical 
protection.
Besides  nuclear  power,  Pakistan  has  harnessed 
nuclear  technology  for  socioeconomic  development. 
In  the  health  sector,  the  Pakistan  Atomic  Energy 
Commission  provides  diagnostics  and 
treatment 
through its 18 oncology medical hospitals, where about 
80  per  cent  of  the  cancer  patients  in  the  country  are 
treated each year. More such hospitals are planned.
For  a  country  of  more  than  180  million  people, 
food security is of critical importance. Over the past 50 
years, four agriculture centres have been engaged in a 
variety of research and development activities leading 
to  higher  use  and  better-quality  agriculture  products 
and  livestock.  The  research  and  development  work  in 
the physical sciences and engineering has also led us to 
make  important  gains  in  water-resource  management 
and the production of most of the radioisotopes required 
by the nuclear medical centres and the private sector.
With  a  sizeable  civilian  nuclear  programme  and 
decades of experience in nuclear operations in the areas 
of  power  generation,  health,  medicine,  agriculture, 
biotechnology  and  industrial  applications,  Pakistan  is 
uniquely placed to offer cooperation in the peaceful uses 
of nuclear energy to developing countries under IAEA 
safeguards. We look forward to further strengthening 
our participation in IAEA promotional activities.
Pakistan  has  been  an  active  and  constructive 
participant  in  the  Nuclear  Security  Summit  process. 
We have attended all Summit meetings at the highest 
level,  so  as  to  demonstrate  the  importance  that  we 
attach  to  nuclear  security.  The  IAEA  plays  a  central 
and  leading  role  in  the  international  nuclear-security 
architecture as well as in the successor arrangements to 
the Summit meetings for the post-2016 period. Through 
the years, Pakistan has worked closely with the IAEA 
to  strengthen  nuclear  security.  We  are  implementing 
a nuclear-security action plan in cooperation with the 
Agency.
Pakistan  recognizes  the  important  role  played  by 
the IAEA verification regime. We share the view that 
all  States  should  fully  comply  with  their  respective 
safeguards obligations. We have fully complied with our 
own obligations, pursuant to our safeguards agreements 
with  the  Agency.  Implementation  of  the  regulatory 
aspects  of  the  Agency  represents  an  important  area, 
in which safeguards play a key role. At the same time, 
promotional activities of the Agency are of the highest 
priority  for  developing  counties.  Equitable  allocation 
of  extra-budgetary  resources  is  needed  for  both  the 
safeguards and the Technical Cooperation Programmes.
is  a  State  with  advanced  nuclear 
capabilities.  We  have 
trained 
manpower  and  facilities  to  become  both  a  provider 
and  a  recipient  of  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful 
purposes. Pakistan has played and will continue to play 
its  constructive  role  in  advancing  non-proliferation 
objectives,  nuclear  safety  and  security,  as  well  as  the 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  technology.  Pakistan  views 
its membership in export-control regimes, particularly 
the Nuclear Suppliers Group, as a mutually beneficial 
proposition.  We  reiterate  our  call  for  an  equitable, 
non-discriminatory  and  criteria-based  approach  to 
promote  civil  nuclear  cooperation  and  membership  in 
export-controls regimes.
experience, 
Pakistan 
the 
Mr.  Khoshroo  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  At  the 
outset, I would like to express my deepest condolences 
to the people and the Governments of France, Iraq and 
Lebanon for the tragic loss of life of a number of their 
citizens as a result of the recent heinous terrorist acts. 
I would also like to thank the Director General of the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  for  his 
presentation of the Agency’s annual report for 2014 (see 
A/70/219).
Nuclear energy is bound to play a significant role 
in the development of developing countries as a result 
of  their  growing  energy  demands,  in  particular  the 
demand  for  electricity.  To  meet  that  demand  without 
contributing to climate change, more clean energy must 
be produced.
15-37040
11/28
A/70/PV.55 
17/11/2015
The peaceful uses of nuclear energy and technology 
are of great importance to the scientific, technological 
and socioeconomic development of the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran.  Iran  has  made  a  considerable  investment  in 
establishing 
infrastructure 
and  has  achieved  significant  progress  in  the  civil 
applications  of  nuclear  science  and  technology  in  the 
medical, agricultural and industrial fields.
the  necessary  nuclear 
We 
to 
emphasize 
interested  developing 
importance  of  nuclear 
the 
transfer  of  nuclear 
the 
knowledge-sharing  and 
technology 
countries, 
consistent  with  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), in order to enhance their 
scientific and technological capabilities and contribute 
to  their  sustainable  socioeconomic  development.  In 
that  regard,  the  activities  of  the  IAEA  in  the  field  of 
technical cooperation should play an important role. In 
accordance with its Statute, the primary responsibility 
of  the  IAEA  is  to  assist  member  States  in  research 
on  and  the  development  and  practical  application  of 
nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  uses.  We  stress  the  need 
to  enhance  the  IAEA’s  activities  and  contributions  in 
that area in order to meet the expectations of interested 
developing nations, including Iran.
the  IAEA, 
Other  mandates  of 
in  particular 
safeguards-related  verification  activities,  should  be 
carried  out  in  support  of  its  primary  responsibility 
to  promote  the  application  of  nuclear  science  and 
technology  throughout  the  world.  In  that  context,  we 
emphasize  that  the  design  and  implementation  of  the 
required safeguards must comply with the inalienable 
rights of NPT States parties and avoid hampering their 
economic  or  technological  development.  Any  efforts 
to  enhance  safeguards  implementation,  such  as  those 
that are currently under consideration by the Agency, 
need  to  ensure  respect  for  the  inalienable  rights  and 
the  national  sovereignty  of  NPT  States  parties.  We 
underline that concerns related to nuclear proliferation 
should not, in any way, restrict the inalienable rights of 
any NPT State party to develop all aspects of nuclear 
science and technology for peaceful purposes, without 
discrimination, as stipulated in article IV of the Treaty.
The  inalienable  right  of  NPT  States  parties  to 
develop  research  in  and  the  production  and  use  of 
nuclear energy, including national nuclear fuel cycles, 
for peaceful purposes must be respected by all. The right 
of the NPT States parties to develop the use of nuclear 
energy  for  peaceful  purposes  and  their  commitment 
to promote and facilitate the exercise of that right are 
among  the  main  pillars  of  the  core  provisions  of  the 
Treaty.  However,  one  can  only  express  dismay  over 
the  systematic  attempts,  applied  under  the  pretext  of 
non-proliferation  concerns  and  contrary  to  the  letter 
and  spirit  of  the  Treaty,  to  restrict  the  application  of 
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
The Islamic Republic of Iran, on the basis of firm 
ideological,  strategic  and  international  principles,  has 
categorically and consistently rejected weapons of mass 
destruction, in particular nuclear weapons, as obsolete 
and  inhuman  and  detrimental  to  international  peace 
and security.
The  conclusion  of  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan 
of  Action  on  14  July  signifies  a  crucial  step  by  Iran 
and  the  E3+3,  through  negotiations  and  based  on 
mutual  respect,  to  resolve  an  unnecessary  crisis  that 
had  been  manufactured  by  baseless  allegations  about 
the  peaceful  Iranian  nuclear  programme,  followed  by 
unjustified  politically  motivated  measures  against 
the  people  of  Iran.  The  main  foundation  of  the  Plan 
of  Action  is  provided  by  the  reciprocal  undertakings 
by  the  E3+3  and  Iran,  recognizing  Iran’s  peaceful 
nuclear  programme  and  its  enrichment  activities  and 
simultaneously the termination of all of the provisions 
of previous Security Council resolutions, as well as the 
comprehensive  lifting  of  Security  Council  sanctions 
and  all  unilateral  and  multilateral  nuclear-related 
sanctions.  That  signifies  a  fundamental  shift  in  the 
Security  Council’s  approach.  The  same  fundamental 
shift  should  be  pursued  by  the  IAEA,  including  by 
the  Board  of  Governors.  All  previous  resolutions  of 
the  Board,  which  are,  in  Iran’s  view,  unjustified  and 
politically  motivated  measures,  should  be  terminated. 
While  the  Plan  of  Action,  endorsed  by  Security 
Council  resolution  2231  (2015),  provides  for  nuclear 
cooperation  with  Iran  and  the  continuation  of  its 
enrichment  programme,  the  provisions  of  previous 
resolutions  of  the  Board  calling  for  suspension  of  the 
enrichment programme are no longer valid. The Islamic 
Republic of Iran is committed to fully implementing its 
voluntary undertakings in good faith, contingent on the 
same good-faith implementation of all undertakings by 
the other parties, including those involving the removal 
of sanctions and restrictive measures under the Plan of 
Action.
On the other hand, in continuing their cooperation 
under  the  Framework  for  Cooperation  to  accelerate 
and  strengthen  their  cooperation  and  dialogue  aimed 
at  resolving,  by  the  end  of  2015,  all  past  and  present 
12/28 
15-37040
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.55
outstanding issues that have not already been resolved by 
the IAEA and Iran, a road map was concluded between 
the  Agency  and  Iran.  Iran  faithfully  implemented  its 
voluntary  undertakings  under  the  road  map  that  was 
agreed on recently. We therefore expect that after the 
final assessment by the Director General is submitted, 
all  past  and  present  issues  will  be  resolved  once  and 
for all in the upcoming Board of Governors meeting on 
15 December.
Cooperation  with  the  IAEA  has  a  central  place 
in  Iran’s  nuclear  policy.  In  that  regard,  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  firmly  believes  that  the  role  of  the 
Agency,  in  accordance  with  its  Statute,  is  vital  for 
the peaceful uses of nuclear energy through technical 
cooperation  with  member  States.  In  the  light  of  the 
imminent implementation of the Joint Comprehensive 
Plan of Action, all restrictions and limitations imposed 
on  the  technical  cooperation  between  Iran  and  the 
Agency should be removed in the 2016-2017 cycle.
Mr. Okamura (Japan) (spoke in French): It is with 
great feeling and profound sympathy that I address the 
General Assembly with regard to the series of terrorist 
attacks  that  recently  occurred  in  Paris,  Beirut  and 
Baghdad. Our hearts are with the families and friends of 
the victims of those abominable attacks, as well as with 
the Governments and the peoples concerned. Japan will 
always  maintain  its  solidarity  with  the  international 
community  in  condemning  and  combating  terrorism, 
which  is  also  an  attack  against  our  common  values. 
Japan will remain resolute in its active contribution to 
peace,  to  stability  and,  above  all,  to  the  fight  against 
terrorism, in collaboration with the entire international 
community.
(spoke in English)
I  would  like  to  thank  Director  General  Yukiya 
Amano for presenting the annual report (see A/70/219) 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA). 
Since  last  year,  the  international  community  has 
witnessed  some  significant  developments  in  such 
fields  as  nuclear  safety,  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
technology and non-proliferation. Japan would also like 
to  warmly  welcome  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Djibouti, 
Guyana and Vanuatu as new members of the IAEA.
Japan  continues  to  fully  support  the  IAEA  so 
that the Agency can fulfil its important role under the 
leadership of Director General Amano. Japan welcomes 
the  important  advances  in  the  implementation  of  the 
IAEA Action Plan on Nuclear Safety. Notable examples 
include  the  adoption  of  the  Vienna  Declaration  on 
Nuclear Safety in February, as well as the entry into force 
of the Convention on Supplementary Compensation for 
Nuclear Damage in April, which resulted from Japan’s 
accession  to  the  Convention.  In  August,  the  IAEA’s 
Fukushima  report  was  published.  We  appreciate  the 
tireless efforts of all persons involved. Taking that report 
to  heart,  Japan  is  determined  to  devote  its  sincerest 
efforts to further enhancing nuclear safety. Moreover, 
I have the pleasure to report to the General Assembly 
that at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, 
we  are  making  solid  progress  in  decommissioning 
the  plant  and  in  managing  contaminated  water.  The 
operation of the sub-drain system started in September. 
The  closing  of  the  impermeable  seaside  wall  was 
completed  in  October.  Those  two  operations  are 
expected  to  considerably  reduce  the  accumulation  of 
contaminated water. On behalf of the Government and 
the  people  of  Japan,  let  me  express  our  renewed  and 
sincere  gratitude  for  the  invaluable  support  from  the 
international community, including the IAEA.
Director General Amano is promoting the concept 
of  atoms  for  peace  and  development.  The  IAEA  is 
conducting  various  activities  under  that  concept  to 
meet the socioeconomic needs of developing countries 
by  utilizing  nuclear  science  and  technology  in  such 
areas  as  food  security,  human  health  and  water 
management.  With  a  view  to  achieving  the  recently 
adopted Sustainable Development Goals (see resolution 
70/1), the atoms for peace and development initiative is 
very timely and important.
As part of our support for such timely IAEA efforts 
under  the  leadership  of  Director  General  Amano, 
Japanese  Foreign  Minister  Fumio  Kishida  announced 
a  contribution  earlier  this  year  of  $25  million  to  the 
IAEA’s  Peaceful  Uses  Initiative  to  be  disbursed  over 
the  next  five  years.  More  recently,  Japan  disbursed 
about  $1.2  million  from  its  Peaceful  Uses  Initiative 
contributions  to  support  IAEA  regional  technical 
cooperation  projects  in  the  regions  of  Africa  and 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  and  in  the  Asia-
Pacific  region.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  encourage  the  international  community  to  provide 
further support for the IAEA’s activities in the peaceful 
uses of nuclear science and technology.
The  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  on  the 
Iranian  nuclear  issue  is  an  important  step  for  the 
enhancement  of  the  international  non-proliferation 
regime  and  for  the  stabilization  of  the  Middle  East. 
15-37040
13/28
A/70/PV.55 
17/11/2015
Japan welcomes the advent of adoption day for the Plan 
of Action on 18 October and hopes that implementation 
day  will  come  at  the  earliest  possible  date.  In  close 
coordination with the international community, Japan 
will support the implementation process of the Plan of 
Action.  Meanwhile,  all  past  and  present  outstanding 
issues  regarding  Iran’s  nuclear  programme  should 
be  clarified  as  early  as  possible,  so  as  to  dispel  any 
concerns of the international community and based on 
the road map agreed between Iran and the IAEA.
In  North-East  Asia,  North  Korea’s  continued 
development of nuclear and missile programmes poses a 
serious threat to the peace and security of the region and 
the entire international community. Japan urges North 
Korea to refrain from any further provocative action and 
to take concrete steps towards complete, verifiable and 
irreversible denuclearization, and immediately cease all 
related activities. Japan also urges North Korea to fully 
comply with the relevant Security Council resolutions 
and  the  2005  Joint  Statement  of  the  Six-Party  Talks, 
and to return to compliance with the safeguards of the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
and the IAEA. In that regard, Japan fully supports the 
IAEA’s continued involvement in that issue.
Japan  wishes  to  play  a  more  proactive  role  in 
maintaining peace, prosperity and stability in the world 
under the banner of “Proactive Contribution to Peace”, 
based on the principle of international cooperation.
Next year will mark the sixtieth anniversary of the 
adoption of the IAEA Statute. As a responsible member 
of  the  international  community,  Japan  expresses  its 
firm  determination  to  contribute  further  to  ensuring 
and promoting the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
Ms. Del Sol Dominguez (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
Cuba supports the important work of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  We  welcome  all  the 
new members of the Agency.
Technical cooperation is one of the main pillars of 
the IAEA and deserves priority attention. In our country, 
we  look  positively  on  the  use  of  nuclear  technology 
in  such  vital  areas  as  human  health,  agriculture, 
food  supply,  hydrology  and  the  preservation  of  the 
environment.  Such  activities  should  be  carried  out  in 
strict compliance with safety regulations. In that regard, 
we stress the essential role of international cooperation. 
We accord special priority to the IAEA Programme of 
Action  for  Cancer  Therapy,  which  should  receive  the 
necessary financial resources to broaden its reach and 
results.
Cuba  continues  to  face  obstacles  and  delays  that 
hinder  its  cooperation  with  the  Agency  by  virtue  of 
the  sanctions  policy  that  our  people  still  face,  which 
imposes severe restrictions on our programme with the 
IAEA. The restoration of diplomatic relations between 
Cuba and the United States is the first step in a long, 
complex process towards the normalization of bilateral 
relations  and  the  definitive  end  of  the  blockade.  We 
are grateful for the support that we receive each year 
from the IAEA and the international community in that 
regard.
inclusive  negotiations,  with 
The effective management of nuclear security does 
not  admit  of  exclusions  or  selectivities.  International 
rules  governing  nuclear  safety  should  be  adopted 
in  the  framework  of  the  IAEA  through  multilateral, 
transparent  and 
the 
participation of all States. Cuba welcomes the holding 
of  the  forthcoming  IAEA  International  Ministerial 
Conference on Nuclear Security in December 2016. We 
will  continue  to  strengthen  the  excellent  cooperation 
between  our  country  and  the  IAEA  in  implementing 
projects aimed at improving physical nuclear security 
so as to be able to better control our borders and our 
facilities that have Category 1 and 2 radioactive sources. 
In  the  context  of  IAEA  safeguards,  our  country  has 
obtained  dual  certification  and  satisfactory  results  in 
Agency  inspections  for  eight  consecutive  years.  We 
must preserve the credibility of the IAEA’s activities in 
the field of safeguards, ensuring fair and professional 
action in that area.
Cuba  supports  efforts  to  improve  the  efficiency 
of  the  safeguards,  provided  they  do  not  affect  the 
legitimate  rights  of  States  or  establish  discriminatory 
and  selective  practices.  We  welcome  the  progress 
made  in  the  ongoing  negotiations  between  the  IAEA 
and  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran.  We  encourage 
further progress in that process. We also reaffirm our 
support for the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free 
zone  in  the  Middle  East.  We  truly  regret  that  the 
proposed modalities for holding the Conference on the 
establishment  of  a  zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
other weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East 
served as the argument used by the three countries that 
blocked the final document of the Review Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  held  this  year.  The 
establishment of such a zone would be a key contribution 
14/28 
15-37040
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.55
to peace and security for all peoples in the region. We 
believe that the continued failure to implement the 1995 
NPT Review Conference resolution on the Middle East 
and the failure to hold the Conference to establish that 
nuclear-weapon-free zone endanger the very credibility 
of the NPT.
Greater  efficiency  and  effectiveness  is  needed 
in  adopting  IAEA  decisions,  which  will  require 
strengthening the General Conference as the supreme 
legislative body in which all member States participate. 
We  should  also  thoroughly  consider  the  composition 
and functions of the Board of Governors.
Humankind  will  remain 
in  danger  of  being 
annihilated  by  the  more  than  16,000  existing  nuclear 
weapons.  That  is  why  nuclear  disarmament  cannot 
remain an objective that is always postponed or subject 
to conditions. The only way to avoid the use or threat 
of use of nuclear weapons is their total prohibition and 
elimination, under strict international verification. The 
IAEA  has  an  important  role  to  play  in  that  respect. 
Cuba  will  stand  firm  in  the  battle  to  achieve  a  world 
free  of  nuclear  weapons.  That  is  our  commitment  to 
present and future generations.
Mr.  Zehnder  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 
Switzerland  is  deeply  shocked  and  saddened  by  the 
terrorist attacks perpetrated in Paris, Beirut, Baghdad 
and  over  the  Sinai  peninsula  in  the  past  few  weeks. 
Switzerland  firmly  condemns  such  hateful  acts, 
which  run  counter  to  the  fundamental  values  of  all 
societies,  and  we  assure  the  countries  affected  of  our 
full  solidarity.  Switzerland  also  extends  its  deepest 
condolences to the families of the victims and to all of 
the countries affected.
The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) 
has had to face a number of major challenges this year, 
and  others  are  on  the  horizon.  Of  those  challenges, 
Switzerland would like to highlight the following four.
First, Switzerland welcomes the agreement reached 
on 14 July on the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
between  Iran  and  the  ЕЗ/EU+3.  My  country  hopes 
that  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action,  which 
was the result of several years of intense and difficult 
negotiations,  will  be  implemented  in  a  constructive 
manner by all of the parties involved. The IAEA, which 
contributed  significantly  to  the  July  agreement,  will 
have a key role to play in verifying the implementation 
of  the  nuclear  part  of  the  agreement.  Switzerland 
supported  the  negotiation  process  that  led  to  the 
adoption  of  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action 
and has provided financial support for the work of the 
IAEA resulting from those negotiations.
Secondly,  Switzerland  welcomed  the  holding  of  a 
diplomatic conference in February 2015 to discuss an 
amendment that it had introduced within the framework 
of  the  Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety.  The  resulting 
Vienna  Declaration  on  Nuclear  Safety  was  adopted 
unanimously,  establishing  the  principle  that  state-of-
the-art technology should ensure safety at new nuclear 
facilities  and  that  existing  facilities  should  be  subject 
to regular checks and continuous safety improvements. 
Switzerland  is  working  to  ensure  that  the  objectives 
of  the  Declaration  become  the  benchmark  for  nuclear 
safety and are integrated into the wider framework of 
the IAEA, which sets global standards for nuclear safety. 
Enhancing  nuclear  safety  remains  a  vital,  ongoing 
effort.  The  IAEA’s  challenge  will  be  to  continue  its 
efforts to develop its nuclear-safety strategy. The IAEA 
can count on Switzerland’s support in the fulfilment of 
that task.
Thirdly,  at  the  IAEA  General  Conference  this 
year,  the  issue  of  nuclear  security  was  discussed  at 
length, resulting in a resolution that, for the first time, 
established  a  clear  link  between  disarmament  and 
nuclear security. Switzerland welcomes that resolution, 
as we are convinced that in order to be all-encompassing 
and credible, the approach taken to nuclear security must 
be  more  broadly  based,  taking  on  board  the  obvious 
link between nuclear security and nuclear disarmament 
as  well  as  the  entire  range  of  nuclear  materials  that 
exist,  both  civilian  and  military.  In  more  than  one 
respect, 2016 will be the year of nuclear security, and 
Switzerland welcomes the decision by the IAEA to hold 
a ministerial conference on nuclear security next year. 
My  country  is  indeed  convinced  that,  given  its  broad 
membership  and  its  capability  to  combine  technical 
expertise and political leadership, the IAEA is ideally 
placed to play a steering role in international efforts in 
the area of nuclear security.
Fourthly,  Switzerland  supports  the  IAEA  report 
entitled  The  Conceptualization  and  Development  of 
Safeguards Implementation at the State Level, and hence 
supports the work of the Secretariat to implement such 
a concept. Indeed, on the one hand, the IAEA is seeing 
an increase in its verification tasks and there is a desire 
among member States to see it become more active in 
other areas, including nuclear security and safety. On 
the  other  hand,  those  developments  are  coming  at  a 
15-37040
15/28
A/70/PV.55 
17/11/2015
time of persistent reluctance to increase budgets. The 
State-level  concept  must  therefore  lead  to  a  genuine 
optimization  of  the  effectiveness  of  the  safeguards 
system. That will most likely mean a complete review 
of current practice and a better targeting of priorities in 
order to make genuine improvements to management, 
in  terms  of  effort  and  cost,  that  are  both  substantial 
and  measurable  for  the  IAEA  and  also  for  the  States 
concerned.
The assessment made thus far by the Secretariat on 
the State-level concept has indicated that the potential 
for  efficiency  gains  is  limited.  Switzerland  does  not 
share that view, and we are convinced that there is real 
room  for  manoeuvre,  but  a  culture  change  within  the 
IAEA  is  necessary  to  achieve  it.  In  fact,  the  thought 
process set in motion by the State-level concept cannot 
be  restricted  to  the  mere  quest  for  efficiency  gains. 
We will most likely need to extend our thinking more 
broadly to the overall management of the IAEA, if we 
want it to be able to meet all of the challenges that lie 
ahead.
Mr. Phua (Singapore): On behalf of my delegation, 
allow me to begin by extending my deepest condolences 
and  solidarity  to  the  countries  that  recently  suffered 
heinous terrorist attacks. Singapore supports all efforts 
to bring the perpetrators of such crimes to justice.
I  thank  Director  General  Yukiya  Amano  for  the 
comprehensive  annual  report  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (see A/70/219). Singapore has 
consistently  supported  the  work  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  in  promoting  the 
safe,  secure  and  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  science 
and  technologies.  We  are  pleased  to  continue  our 
co-sponsorship  of  the  draft  resolution  on  the  report 
of  the  IAEA  (A/70/L.8),  and  we  regret  that  the  draft 
resolution will not be adopted by consensus this year.
Singapore  has  consistently  taken  the  view  that 
nuclear safety is an issue of concern to all States and 
not  merely  to  States  with  nuclear  installations.  That 
is  because  nuclear  accidents  may  have  catastrophic 
consequences that transcend national borders.
We  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to 
the  IAEA  and  the  Secretariat  for  their  work  on  the 
comprehensive report of the Director General entitled 
The  Fukushima  Daiichi  Accident.  It  is  a  sobering 
reminder  of  the  dangers  of  complacency  and  of  the 
fact that countries operating nuclear power plants bear 
responsibility  to  their  peoples  and  the  international 
community to ensure that their regulatory frameworks, 
plant design, operational safety procedures and culture, 
and emergency preparedness and response are robust at 
all times. The report provides a valuable repository of 
knowledge that can be drawn upon to ensure that such 
accidents do not happen again.
The  Diplomatic  Conference  of  the  Convention  on 
Nuclear Safety, convened in February 2015, adopted the 
Vienna  Declaration  on  Nuclear  Safety  by  consensus. 
We  urge  all  contracting  parties  to  the  Convention, 
especially countries with nuclear installations and those 
planning  to  embark  on  a  civilian  nuclear  programme, 
to  implement  the  safety  objectives  contained  in  the 
Declaration expeditiously and in good faith. Singapore 
will  fulfil  its  responsibilities  and  cooperate  with  the 
IAEA  and  member  States  to  contribute  towards  the 
strengthening  of  international  and  regional  standards 
of nuclear safety.
The  IAEA  plays  a  central  role  in  promoting  the 
safe, secure and peaceful use of nuclear energy, which 
is  critical  to  furthering  the  objectives  of  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT). 
While  Singapore  has  consistently  expressed  support 
for  the  right  of  all  sovereign  States  to  use  nuclear 
energy for peaceful purposes, we also believe that the 
right  must  be  exercised  in  strict  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the NPT. We urge States, particularly the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, to refrain from 
all provocative actions, to return to the NPT, to fully 
comply  with  all  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions 
and to resume full cooperation with the IAEA.
Singapore also welcomes the Joint Comprehensive 
Plan of Action agreed between the P5+1 and Iran. The 
agreement is a significant step in the right direction, but 
the implementation of the agreement will be critical. We 
urge all parties to fulfil their obligations expeditiously 
and  in  good  faith.  Singapore  recognizes  the  essential 
role  of  the  IAEA  in  verifying  and  monitoring  the 
nuclear-related measures set out in the agreement. We 
support the Agency’s implementation of the measures 
contained  in  Security  Council  resolution  2231  (2015) 
and  look  forward  to  the  Director  General’s  report  on 
the implementation of the road map for the clarification 
of past and present outstanding issues regarding Iran’s 
nuclear programme, signed on 14 July.
Singapore welcomes the valuable work of the IAEA 
in mobilizing peaceful applications of nuclear science 
and  technology  to  address  critical  global  challenges 
16/28 
15-37040
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.55
in  myriad  areas,  such  as  food  and  agriculture,  public 
health, water resources and the environment. Singapore 
has  collaborated  with  the  IAEA  since  2000  to  jointly 
provide technical assistance to other fellow developing 
IAEA member States. We are pleased to have renewed 
our commitment to work together when we welcomed 
Director General Amano to Singapore in January this 
year  and  committed  to  an  updated  memorandum  of 
understanding on the Singapore-IAEA Third Country 
Training Programme. Under the scope of that revised 
memorandum,  Singapore  and  the  IAEA  will  provide 
joint technical assistance to other developing countries 
in a number of areas, including nuclear medicine and 
nuclear  safety.  We  have  begun  with  a  joint  training 
programme  for  participants  from  11  countries  on  the 
strategy for and evaluation of trials on suppression of 
the Aedes genus of the mosquito population by using the 
sterile insect technique. We hope that it will be merely 
the first programme within a fruitful cooperation.
Singapore  also  supports  the  IAEA’s  continued 
cooperation with regional organizations. We welcome 
the  progress  made  by  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian Nations Network of Regulatory Bodies on Atomic 
Energy  (ASEANTOM)  in  strengthening  cooperation 
among countries in Southeast Asia aimed at promoting 
greater nuclear safety, security and safeguards within 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations community. 
ASEANTOM has proposed an IAEA regional technical 
cooperation  project  to  support  the  establishment  of  a 
regional  environmental  radioactivity  database  and  an 
emergency  preparedness  and  response  framework, 
which  will  commence  in  2016.  We  look  forward  to 
the further strengthening of the collaboration between 
ASEANTOM and the IAEA.
In conclusion, Singapore is a proud partner of the 
IAEA, which has done good work and made significant 
contributions to the international community. We look 
forward to continuing our cooperation.
Mr. Alemu (Ethiopia): It gives me great pleasure to 
speak on this important agenda item under consideration 
today. I would like to express appreciation and gratitude 
to  the  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  Ambassador  Amano,  for  his 
comprehensive 2014 annual report on the work of the 
Agency (see A/70/219).
Ethiopia  commends  the  IAEA  for  its  continued 
efforts  to  discharge  its  responsibilities  with  regard  to 
helping member States use nuclear energy for peaceful 
purposes. We believe that the three pillars of the IAEA 
will continue to play a key role in achieving the newly 
adopted  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1)  by  promoting  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear  technologies  while  addressing  the  risk  of 
nuclear proliferation. From our perspective, the IAEA 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme, 
the 
provision  of  guidance  to  member  States,  is  of  critical 
importance. In that regard, the development of nuclear-
power  projects  and  the  promotion  of  the  application 
of  nuclear  technology  to  human  health,  medical 
service, food and agriculture, and the protection of the 
environment are of vital importance.
including 
In  Ethiopia,  the  Agency’s  technical  cooperation 
continues  to  be  vital  in  supporting  the  Government’s 
efforts  to  develop  capabilities  in  the  areas  of  tsetse 
fly  control,  cancer 
treatment,  diagnostic  nuclear 
medicine  services,  isotope  hydrological  analysis  and 
non-destructive  quality  testing,  and  national  nuclear 
science  and 
infrastructure.  We  have 
improved  our  capacity  through  personnel  training, 
equipment acquisition, expert missions and other forms 
of technical assistance from the IAEA.
technology 
With the view to supporting the Agency’s advocacy 
of the peaceful use of nuclear technology, Ethiopia is a 
signatory to a number of IAEA treaties and conventions. 
We also firmly believe that the provision of sufficient 
and predictable resources to the Agency’s programmes 
and,  more  importantly,  the  balanced  distribution  of 
resources to its safeguards, nuclear safety and technical 
cooperation activities need to be ensured. In fact, the 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme  plays  a  crucial 
role  as  a  means  of  transferring  nuclear  technology  to 
developing countries.
Our  biggest  technical  cooperation  project  with 
the  IAEA  is  aimed  at  eradicating  the  tsetse  fly  from 
the  Southern  Rift  Valley  region.  That  insect  still 
poses  a  genuine  threat  to  the  lives  and  livelihoods 
of  our  communities  and  is  a  constraint  on  livestock 
production  in  Ethiopia.  The  Southern  Rift  Valley 
Tsetse Eradication Project is currently under way and 
remarkable achievements have been made in connection 
with the expansion of farmland and livestock farming.
With regard to the Programme of Action for Cancer 
Therapy, Ethiopia commends the IAEA for its role and 
continued support in consolidating the comprehensive 
cancer-control  programmes  at 
the  Black  Lion 
Specialized Hospital in Addis Ababa, which serves as a 
15-37040
17/28
A/70/PV.55 
17/11/2015
referral hospital. The Agency has also been extending 
its  support  to  the  expansion  of  nuclear  medicine  and 
radiotherapy  centres  in  five  more  selected  regional 
university  hospitals.  It  is  in  that  light  that  Ethiopia 
reiterates  its  call  for  increased  resources  from  the 
regular  budget  to  cover  the  increasing  burdens  faced 
by  the  Technical  Cooperation  Fund  in  implementing 
the Technical Cooperation Programme. We are also of 
the view that both national measures and international 
cooperation  are  essential  for  nuclear  and  radiation 
safety.
In  that  regard,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  that 
the Agency has a key role to play in the promotion of 
a  global  safety  culture.  The  Agency’s  safeguards  are 
among  the  basic  components  of  the  non-proliferation 
regime and create an environment conducive to nuclear 
disarmament  and  nuclear  cooperation.  Furthermore, 
in  responding  to  the  threats  from  non-State  actors, 
particularly terrorists, who seek to acquire weapons of 
mass  destruction,  the  collaborative  efforts  of  member 
States,  international  organizations  and  civil  society 
are  critical.  In  that  connection,  the  implementation 
of Security Council resolutions 1540 (2004) and 1887 
(2009)  is  also  essential  for  addressing  nuclear-related 
threats.
The  safeguards  and  verification  mandates  of  the 
Agency  illustrate  the  importance  of  the  Agency’s 
continued vigilance and contributions to international 
peace  and  security.  In  that  regard,  Ethiopia  strongly 
supports  the  right  of  all  States  to  enjoy  the  full  use 
of  nuclear  technology  and  its  scientific  application  in 
accordance with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons.
To  conclude,  I  wish  to  reiterate  our  profound 
thanks  and  appreciation  to  the  IAEA,  particularly  its 
governing body and leadership, for their dedication to 
strengthening essential technical cooperation between 
the Agency and countries such as Ethiopia. Let me also 
reiterate our assurances that Ethiopia will continue to 
do its level best to further enhance the positive spirit 
of cooperation with the Agency, as well as with all the 
development  partners  that  have  so  far  made  generous 
contributions to our development endeavours, including 
in that critical area.
Mr.  Hahn  Choonghee  (Republic  of  Korea): 
Let  me  begin  by  thanking  the  Director  General  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA), 
Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  for  introducing  the  Agency’s 
annual  report  for  2014  (see  A/70/219).  We  welcome 
the report’s thematic overview of the IAEA’s activities 
and  underline  the  importance  that  the  Republic  of 
Korea  attaches  to  a  balanced  programme  of  work. 
We  believe  that  such  a  programme  will  contribute  to 
promoting the peaceful applications of nuclear science 
and technology, enhancing nuclear safety and security, 
and  strengthening  global  nuclear  verification  and 
non-proliferation efforts.
The  international  community  has  just  adopted 
the  ambitious  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  with  its  Goals  aimed 
at  promoting  shared  prosperity  for  the  next  15  years. 
Ensuring  that  all  Member  States  share  the  benefits 
of  nuclear  science  and  technology  for  their  economic 
and  social  development  will  contribute  to  achieving 
those  common  development  goals.  In  that  regard,  we 
welcome  the  IAEA  secretariat’s  efforts  to  fully  align 
its  Technical  Cooperation  Programme  with  the  2030 
Agenda.
As  we  approach  the  twenty-first  session  of  the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
the 
Republic  of  Korea  would  also  like  to  highlight  the 
contribution of nuclear power to energy-supply security, 
with  its  environmental  and  macroeconomic  benefits. 
We will continue to work with the Agency and others 
to ensure that nuclear power remains a viable option for 
helping  to  meet  the  climate  and  energy  challenges  of 
the twenty-first century.
The 2011 accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear 
power station was a solemn reminder that nuclear safety 
can never be taken for granted. As we move forward, 
sustaining the momentum that we have built up in the 
field of nuclear safety is essential. We believe that the 
Agency’s  report  on  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  accident 
will be an objective guide to and a strong reminder of 
the  importance  of  nuclear-safety  preparedness.  The 
report’s findings are not the end but the beginning of 
our collective endeavour to understand and learn from 
the accident and strengthen nuclear safety worldwide. 
Both the General Assembly and IAEA member States 
have recognized and reaffirmed the central role that the 
Agency has played in strengthening the global nuclear-
security architecture. As the host country of the 2012 
Seoul Nuclear Security Summit, the Republic of Korea 
is a strong supporter of the Agency’s work in that field 
and would like to draw attention to the December 2016 
18/28 
15-37040
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.55
International  Conference  on  Nuclear  Security  that 
Korea will chair at the ministerial level.
Given 
the 
the  vital  contribution  of 
IAEA 
safeguards  to  international  peace  and  security,  the 
Republic of Korea is pleased to note that, in 2014, the 
Agency continued to improve the effectiveness and the 
efficiency of the safeguards. We are encouraged by the 
growing acceptance of the State-level concept and the 
continuing  increase  in  the  number  of  comprehensive 
safeguards  agreements,  additional  protocols  and 
amended  small-quantities  protocols  that  are  in  force. 
In  that  regard,  as  of  October,  Korea  became  one  of 
two  member  States  to  apply  the  new  version  of  the 
State-level approach.
The  Republic  of  Korea  is  encouraged  by  the 
progress  made  in  resolving  the  past  and  present 
outstanding  issues  of  Iran’s  nuclear  programme.  We 
take note of the Agency’s statement that the activities 
set out in the road map agreed between the Agency and 
Iran were completed as planned by 15 October, and we 
hope  that  all  parties  concerned  will  continue  in  good 
faith  their  efforts  to  ensure  an  exclusively  peaceful 
Iranian nuclear programme.
Despite  such  positive  developments,  however, 
significant safeguards challenges remain. We continue 
to  view  with  grave  concern  North  Korea’s  continued 
violation  of  its  international  obligations  to  abandon 
all nuclear weapons and existing nuclear programmes 
and immediately cease all related activities, especially 
in  the  light  of  its  ongoing  provocations  and  public 
statements  vowing  to  pursue  the  further  development 
of  nuclear  weapons.  The  Republic  of  Korea  feels 
compelled,  therefore,  to  reiterate  that  North  Korea 
cannot  have  the  status  of  a  nuclear-weapon  State  and 
that it must fully comply with all its obligations under 
the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  and  fulfil 
its  commitments  under  the  19  September  2005  Joint 
Statement of the fourth round of the Six-Party Talks.
Along with the international community, we stand 
ready  to  offer  a  brighter  future  to  North  Korea,  if  it 
demonstrates  a  genuine  willingness  to  completely 
abandon its nuclear-weapons programme and agrees to 
abide by its international obligations and commitments. 
However, its negative response to past diplomatic efforts 
underlines the need for the international community to 
reiterate a strong and unified message that the path to 
peace, stability and prosperity hinges on North Korea’s 
willingness  to  return  to  meaningful  denuclearization 
talks.  In  that  regard,  we  appreciate  the  resolution  on 
the North Korean nuclear issue adopted by consensus 
at  the  fifty-ninth  IAEA  General  Conference  this  past 
September.  While  maintaining  extra  vigilance,  the 
Republic of Korea will continue its constructive efforts 
to  achieve  a  peaceful  resolution  of  the  North  Korean 
nuclear issue and looks forward to working with others 
to that end.
The Republic of Korea reiterates its full support for 
the work of the IAEA in achieving our common goal of 
harnessing nuclear energy in the service of peace and 
development for humankind. We join others in support 
of this year’s draft resolution A/70/L.8 on the report of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency.
joins 
Mr.  Isnomo  (Indonesia):  Indonesia 
the 
international community in condemning the shameful 
and cowardly terrorist attacks that occurred in France 
and Lebanon and conveys its heartfelt condolences to 
the Governments and the peoples of those two countries.
My  delegation  would  like  to  express  its  sincere 
appreciation  to  the  Director  General  of  the  IAEA 
for  preparing  a  comprehensive  report  on  the  work  of 
the  Agency  during  2014  (see  A/70/219)  and  for  his 
introductory  statement,  which  contains  additional 
information on the activities of the Agency during 2015.
Indonesia  takes  note  of  the  developments  and 
significant activities of the Agency during the reporting 
period,  covering  nuclear  technology  in  power  and 
non-power  applications,  nuclear  safety  and  security, 
nuclear verification and technical cooperation. In that 
regard,  Indonesia  welcomes  the  Agency’s  continuous 
efforts  to  provide  the  necessary  support  to  member 
States in the aforementioned fields. We encourage the 
IAEA  secretariat  to  continue  to  pursue  and  adapt  its 
programme of work in a balanced manner to meet the 
changing  needs  of  member  States  and  to  ensure  that 
sufficient  resources  are  allocated  in  that  respect  so 
that the benefits of nuclear science and technology are 
shared  by  all  member  States  for  their  socioeconomic 
development.
Indonesia  believes  that  the  Agency’s  technical 
cooperation programme plays an indispensable role as 
the  main  vehicle  through  which  the  Agency  delivers 
its mandate of promoting the peaceful uses of nuclear 
technology,  especially  in  developing  countries.  Given 
the  key  role  played  by  the  technical  cooperation 
programme, Indonesia underlines the need to earmark 
a significant portion of contributions for the Technical 
15-37040
19/28
A/70/PV.55 
17/11/2015
Cooperation  Fund  to  ensure  that  there  are  sufficient 
resources for the programme.
Since 2012, Indonesia has been a contributor to the 
IAEA  Peaceful  Uses  Initiative  (PUI),  which  supports 
the IAEA programme on technical cooperation among 
developing  countries.  It  is  currently  developing  a 
regional capacity-building initiative for the Asia Pacific 
region with the IAEA within the PUI framework. The 
Initiative envisages structural and sustainable technical 
cooperation and encourages the recipient, provider and 
donor  countries  to  sit  down  with  the  IAEA  and  plan 
together.  In  that  context,  Indonesia  will  continue  its 
support for all PUI activities, particularly in the area of 
knowledge exchange in nuclear and nuclear-application 
technology in agriculture. It will also continue to assign 
its cost-free experts to support technical cooperation on 
nuclear security and nuclear application.
Indonesia is pleased that Director General Yukiya 
Amano  has  put  more  emphasis  on  promoting  the 
application  of  nuclear  science  and  technology  for  the 
benefit of humankind in the areas of food and agriculture, 
health,  industry  and  the  environment.  In  that  regard, 
Indonesia  welcomes  the  Agency’s  continuing  efforts 
to  strengthen  its  capacity  and  its  services  to  member 
States, including the initiative to renovate the nuclear 
application laboratories in Seibersdorf.
Indonesia wishes to reiterate the importance of the 
role of the Agency in fostering international cooperation 
in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and technology, 
nuclear safety and security. We fervently hope that the 
cooperation between Indonesia and the Agency can be 
further  expanded  and  developed.  We  also  would  like 
the Agency to step up collaboration and support for the 
application  of  nuclear  science  and  technology  in  the 
region.
Since  becoming  a  member  of  the  Agency  in 
1957,  Indonesia  has  been  steadfast  in  its  commitment 
to  the  IAEA’s  Technical  Cooperation  Programme. 
Indonesia itself has benefited significantly from IAEA 
cooperation in the areas of food and agriculture, health, 
water, and other peaceful uses of nuclear energy and is 
now ready to work with the Agency to provide technical 
cooperation  to  other  developing  countries.  An  IAEA 
collaborating centre was established in Jakarta in 2015 
and is ready to be utilized for that purpose.
With regard to nuclear safety, Indonesia wishes to 
draw  attention  to  the  IAEA  site  and  external  events 
design service and to the visit of the integrated regulatory 
review  service  mission  conducted  in  August  2015. 
With  the  support  provided  by  the  Agency,  Indonesia 
conducted  a  nuclear-energy  system  assessment  using 
the  Agency’s  International  Project  on  Innovative 
Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel  Cycles  methodology  and 
submitted its first assessment report, which focuses on 
a large power reactor that is part of its efforts to sustain 
nuclear energy development.
In  the  area  of  security,  Indonesia  ratified  the 
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts 
of  Nuclear  Terrorism  in  2014,  the  Convention  on  the 
Physical Protection of Nuclear Material in 1986 and the 
2005 Amendment through a presidential decree in 2009. 
Indonesia has also officially inaugurated the Indonesia 
Centre as a centre of excellence in nuclear security and 
emergency  preparedness  at  the  national  and  regional 
levels.  Furthermore,  the  Indonesian  National  Nuclear 
Energy Agency has launched a programme to construct 
a  small-scale,  non-commercial,  multipurpose  power 
reactor to demonstrate electricity production in a safe 
manner,  enhance  knowledge  and  competence  with 
respect  to  nuclear  power  and  non-power  technology 
and  promote  public  acceptance  of  nuclear  power. 
That reactor is expected to be commissioned by 2020. 
Indonesia extends its appreciation to the IAEA for its 
support of this programme.
In  relation  to  safeguards,  Indonesia  welcomes 
the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action between Iran 
and  the  P5+1  on  14  July  in  Vienna,  and  the  adoption 
of  Security  Council  resolution  2231  (2015).  Indonesia 
believes that those successful negotiations represent a 
decisive  step  by  both  sides  towards  a  final  resolution 
of  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue.  Indonesia  calls  on  all 
the  parties,  including  the  P5,  to  adhere  to  the  agreed 
commitments  in  the  Plan,  with  a  view  to  reaching  a 
durable and peaceful solution. Indonesia also reaffirms 
its  support 
the 
verification and monitoring of the Plan.
implementing 
in 
to 
the  Agency 
Indonesia  will  continue  to  support  the  IAEA  in 
fulfilling  its  mandate  as  enshrined  in  its  statute.  In 
the  light  of  the  numerous  developments  affecting 
the  global  architecture,  my  delegation  believes  that 
the  Agency  needs  to  revisit  its  current  practices 
under  the  statute,  to  improve  its  work  and  make  it 
more  efficient,  representative  and  transparent.  As  a 
committed member of the IAEA, Indonesia continues 
to contribute its resources in many ways to support the 
Agency, including by becoming the external auditor of 
the IAEA for the period 2016-2017. With a wide range 
20/28 
15-37040
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.55
of  auditing  experience,  the  Indonesian  Audit  Board 
intends to utilize that opportunity to further contribute 
to the work of the Agency by providing a high-quality 
audit  service  in  order  to  promote  accountability  and 
transparency  in  the  role  of  the  Agency,  which  is  to 
ensure  the  safe,  secure,  and  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy.
As a reflection of Indonesia’s deep appreciation for 
the  indispensable  role  of  the  Agency  in  encouraging 
and assisting the development and practical application 
of  atomic  energy  for  peaceful  uses,  in  technology 
transfer to developing countries and in nuclear safety, 
verification  and  security,  Indonesia  is  pleased  to  join 
others  in  sponsoring  draft  resolution  A/70/L.8  on  the 
report  of  the  IAEA.  It  is  a  measure  of  Indonesia’s 
deep  appreciation  of  the  Agency’s  indispensable  role 
in  encouraging  and  assisting  the  development  and 
practical application of atomic energy for peaceful uses, 
in  technology  transfer  to  developing  countries  and  in 
nuclear  safety,  verification  and  security.  Indonesia  is 
ready to continue supporting the successful work of the 
Agency. 
the  report  of 
Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Chinese  delegation  welcomes 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (see  A/70/219), 
presented  by  Director  General  Yukiya  Amano.  Over 
the past year, the International Atomic Energy Agency 
(IAEA)  has  effectively  discharged  its  relevant  duties 
under its statute. It has exerted substantial efforts and 
made important progress in the areas of promoting the 
application  of  nuclear  energy  and  technology,  nuclear 
non-proliferation,  strengthening  nuclear  safety  and 
security, and monitoring. In that regard, China would 
like to express its appreciation to the Agency.
of 
nuclear 
development 
The  international  community  is  now  gradually 
adopting  a  more  rational  attitude  towards  nuclear 
energy.  The 
energy 
demonstrates  a  generally  positive  trend  and  nuclear 
technologies  are  being  ever  more  widely  applied. 
Meanwhile, global nuclear governance is increasingly 
expanding, with the universality of nuclear safeguards 
being  continuously  strengthened  and  global  nuclear 
safety  and  security  further  enhanced.  On  the  other 
hand, nuclear non-proliferation security is still facing 
a  serious  situation,  and  the  risks  of  nuclear  terrorism 
cannot  be  ignored.  China  therefore  hopes  that  the 
Agency will focus on the following aspects in its future 
work.
First,  China  encourages  the  Agency  to  actively 
promote  technical  cooperation  in  such  areas  as  the 
peaceful application of nuclear energy and technology 
and to further assist developing countries in sharing the 
benefits of nuclear development. China looks forward 
to the IAES’s early establishment of a modern nuclear 
applications laboratory and plans to donate €2 million 
in  additional  contributions  to  the  nuclear  application 
laboratory programme.
Secondly, the Agency needs to forge a more effective 
and  impartial  safeguards  regime.  The  application  of 
safeguards should first and foremost be objective and 
impartial while also taking effectiveness and efficiency 
into account. China welcomes the progress made by the 
IAEA in strengthening the universality of the safeguards 
regime and appreciates the efforts by its secretariat to 
clarify the State-level concept. We hope that the IAEA 
secretariat  will  conscientiously  fulfil  its  commitment 
to  maintaining  dialogue  and  communication  with 
member  States  in  that  regard  by  addressing  all  their 
concerns, with a view to ensuring the impartiality and 
effectiveness of the safeguards regime.
IAEA  efforts 
Thirdly,  China  welcomes 
to 
enhance  global  nuclear  safety  and  security,  including 
the  improvement  of  the  international  legal  regime, 
the  development  of  guidelines  and  the  promotion  of 
communication and cooperation in that area. We hope 
that  the  Agency  will  continue  to  play  a  focused  and 
central  role  in  the  relevant  international  process  that 
will  replace  summits  on  nuclear  security.  We  have 
high  expectations  for  positive  results  next  year  at  the 
International  Conference  on  Nuclear  Security,  held 
under the auspices of the IAEA.
Fourthly,  there  needs  to  be  an  objective  and  fair 
approach  to  addressing  hotspot  nuclear  issues.  China 
appreciates  the  positive  role  played  by  the  Agency  in 
bringing about the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
on the Iranian nuclear issue. We support the IAEA in its 
application of safeguards and relevant monitoring and 
verification measures related in Iran, in accordance with 
Security Council resolution 2231 (2015) and the Plan of 
Action. China hopes that the Agency will strictly abide 
by its mandate, continue to maintain an objective and 
fair attitude and play a constructive role in promoting 
the  peaceful  solution  of  other  regional  nuclear  issues 
through dialogue and consultations.
This  year  marks  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the 
birth  of  China’s  nuclear  industry.  Thanks  to  arduous 
15-37040
21/28
A/70/PV.55 
17/11/2015
efforts over the past six decades, China has registered 
substantial  achievements  in  its  nuclear  development. 
Its  nuclear  safety,  security  and  emergency  response 
capacity  have  been  further  strengthened.  China  will 
continue  to  maintain  close  cooperation  with  the 
Agency in all the areas of its mandate and will make 
joint  contributions  to  realizing  the  objective  of  the 
peaceful,  safe  and  efficient  use  of  nuclear  energy  for 
all humankind.
Mr.  Alhakim  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  we  extend  our  condolences  to  France,  Russia, 
Egypt  and  Lebanon.  Iraq  is  one  of  the  countries  that 
was  targeted  by  terrorist  attacks  and  suffered  loss  of 
life on that account.
At the outset, my delegation would like to welcome 
the  annual  report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (see  A/70/219),  which  presents  the  work  and 
achievements of the Agency for 2014 in its three main 
fields of activity — nuclear technology, nuclear safety 
and security and nuclear verification. The report notes 
that  there  are  438  nuclear  reactors  in  operation  in  30 
countries  and  67  new  reactors  under  construction. 
That  shows  an  increasing  interest  in  exercising  the 
inalienable right, enshrined in article IV of the Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT), 
to possess and peacefully use nuclear technology. That 
was  also  stressed  in  the  Final  Document  of  the  2010 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  especially  the 
need to respect the decisions and policies of non-nuclear-
weapon-States  aimed  at  acquiring  nuclear  technology 
and  nuclear  power  for  peaceful  and  development 
purposes  and  ensuring  the  unrestricted  peaceful  use 
of  nuclear  energy,  including  through  international 
cooperation.
The technical cooperation activities of the Agency 
are a priority for my country and for other developing 
countries  that  want  to  use  nuclear  technology  in  the 
areas  of  health,  agriculture,  food,  water  resources, 
radio isotopes and radiation. My country is committed 
to  strengthening  capabilities  in  nuclear  safety  and 
security  and  in  ensuring  the  physical  protection  of 
nuclear  facilities  and  materials  during  the  stages  of 
use,  stockpiling  and  transport  —  internally  or  across 
borders  —  in  order  to  avoid  radiological  or  nuclear 
incidents and any acts of trafficking. We want to protect 
the lives of people, their property and the environment. 
We  therefore  submitted  a  draft  integrated  action  plan 
on nuclear security to the International Atomic Energy 
Agency  (IAEA)  Department  of  Nuclear  Safety  and 
Security  and  discussed  our  most  vital  needs  with  the 
Department. 
The  Technical  Cooperation  Programme  seeks 
to  promote  and  transfer  nuclear  technology  in  order 
to  achieve  sustainable  soioeconomic  development  in 
developing countries. The Programme remains one of 
the  main  statutory  functions  of  the  Agency.  It  is  the 
joint  responsibility  of  the  Agency  and  its  member 
States, the concerted efforts of which drastically affect 
the success of the programme, which seeks to meet the 
demands and needs of States.
If  the  Programme  is  to  carry  out  its  promotional 
activities,  the  funding  of  the  Technical  Cooperation 
Fund  should  be  sufficient  and  assured  and  at  a  level 
comparable to that for other Agency activities. Countries 
are  rightly  concerned  about  monetary  contributions 
to the Fund, which reflects the need to make funding 
sources  more  predictable.  There  should  be  broad  and 
careful implementation of any measure that could result 
in  sanctions  or  that  could  impose  an  extra  burden  on 
the Agency and the member States, especially countries 
under  critical  circumstances  beyond  their  control  and 
those  facing  challenges  related  to  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear  energy  and  radiological  applications  in  fields 
such as medicine, industry and research. It is necessary 
to properly address the issue of the funding shortfalls 
experienced  by 
the  Technical  Cooperation  Fund. 
Member  States  and  the  Agency  should  work  together 
to  take  appropriate  measures  to  improve  the  current 
situation.
The  progress  achieved  in  curbing  the  threat  of 
nuclear  weapons  and  in  improving  the  effectiveness 
of 
the  Comprehensive  Safeguards  System  needs 
to  be  coupled  with  significant  progress  in  nuclear 
disarmament,  in  line  with  the  NPT.  Countries  should 
be encouraged to become party to the NPT in order to 
achieve  its  noble  goals  in  the  service  of  international 
peace and security.
International and regional efforts have fallen short 
of ridding the Middle East of nuclear weapons because 
Israel rejects any endeavour in that regard, despite the 
numerous General Assembly resolutions that have called 
for the elimination of nuclear weapons from the region 
since 1974, as have resolutions adopted by the Review 
Conferences of the Parties to the NPT. The failure of 
the 2015 NPT Review Conference to reach consensus 
on the draft final document is a setback in international 
22/28 
15-37040
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.55
efforts  to  establish  in  the  Middle  East  a  zone  free  of 
nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction 
(WMDs).  The  failure  to  adopt  a  final  document  has 
prevented  us  from  reviewing  the  obligations  over  the 
past  five  years.  My  country  therefore  stresses  the 
need  to  commit  to  the  resolution  of  the  1995  Review 
and  Extension  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  NPT 
on  the  Middle  East,  which  indefinitely  extended  the 
Treaty. The resolution should remain in force until fully 
implemented.
My Government believes that eliminating nuclear 
weapons and other WMDs from the Middle East is a key 
element for achieving peace and security in the Middle 
East.  It  could  be  of  direct  benefit  to  the  development 
of  the  peoples  of  the  region  and  the  prosperity  of  its 
generations. In that regard, my delegation stresses the 
need  for  continued  efforts  to  create  such  a  zone  and 
to  do  everything  possible  to  distance  this  vulnerable 
region from global tension.
Mr.  Mahmoud  (Egypt):  At  the  outset,  I  wish  to 
express  deep  appreciation  to  the  representative  of 
Brazil  for  introducing  draft  resolution  A/70/L.8  and 
to Mr. Yukiya Amano for his comprehensive briefing 
on the 2014 annual report of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency (see A/70/219).
There can be no doubt that the International Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  comprehensive  safeguards 
system  constitutes  the  only  verification  mechanism 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT).  Egypt  believes  that  all  international 
efforts  aimed  at  implementing  NPT  commitments 
concerning  nuclear  non-proliferation  and  all  efforts 
directed  at  fulfilling  commitments  in  the  field  of 
nuclear disarmament must indeed be enforced through 
the IAEA verification mechanism, given that it is the 
sole international agency with the mandate to perform 
that duty.
While  we  acknowledge  the  successful  role  of  the 
IAEA in ensuring the non-diversion of nuclear activities 
or  material  to  military  nuclear  programmes,  that  role 
has so far had a limited impact in preventing vertical 
proliferation or in verifying nuclear disarmament of the 
nuclear-weapon  States.  Moreover,  there  is  increasing 
interest  on  the  part  of  non-nuclear-weapon  States 
in  exercising  their  inalienable  right  to  benefit  from 
peaceful uses, in accordance with article IV of the NPT. 
Egypt stresses the obligation of developed countries in 
particular to promote developing countries’ legitimate 
access to nuclear energy by fully respecting their right 
to  do  so,  so  that  they  can  reap  maximum  benefit  and 
achieve  comprehensive  sustainable  development  in 
their  nuclear  programmes  and  relevant  applications. 
We  therefore  consistently  emphasize  the  need  to 
promote international cooperation in peaceful uses of 
nuclear  energy  for  the  realization  of  the  inalienable 
right  of  all  parties  to  the  NPT  to  the  development, 
research,  production  and  use  of  nuclear  energy  for 
peaceful  purposes,  which  constitutes  one  of  the  three 
fundamental pillars of the NPT.
At  the  national  level,  Egypt  has  embarked  on  the 
establishment of its first nuclear facility for electrical 
energy  generation, 
increasing 
development needs. We are keen to coordinate with the 
IAEA  to  ensure  our  compliance  with  the  established 
IAEA safety and security standards in all their aspects 
and with the comprehensive safeguards system.
in  response 
to 
its 
Egypt  notes  with  concern  certain  discriminatory 
arrangements to impose additional restrictions on some 
but not on others, in a manner that is clearly politicized 
and  that  does  not  contribute  to  the  implementation 
of  the  NPT  objectives,  in  particular  its  universality. 
Moreover,  such  restrictions  constitute  interference  in 
the internal affairs of States by attempting to influence 
the determination of their nuclear-energy requirements 
or  to  restrict  their  right  to  achieve  self-sufficiency  in 
the area of nuclear power supply, such as the Additional 
Protocol and the international nuclear fuel bank. Egypt 
calls for the universalization of the IAEA comprehensive 
safeguards system as the only legal instrument in this 
technical field, it being understood that any additional 
obligation is a voluntary one and therefore binding only 
on the States that have acceded to it.
On  the  issue  of  the  establishment  of  a  nuclear-
weapon-free  zone  in  the  region  of  the  Middle  East, 
Egypt stresses its determination to mobilize the widest 
possible  support  and  endorsement  for  the  two  annual 
draft  resolutions  it  introduces  in  Vienna,  entitled 
“Application of IAEA safeguards in the Middle East” 
and  “Israeli  nuclear  capabilities”,  in  accordance  with 
the 1995 NPT resolution on the Middle East.
Ms. Richards (Jamaica): The Jamaican delegation 
welcomes  the  2014  annual  report  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and  thanks  Director 
General  Amano  for  his  presentation  on  the  Agency’s 
work.
15-37040
23/28
A/70/PV.55 
17/11/2015
Jamaica attaches great importance to the vital work 
of the IAEA in promoting the peaceful uses of nuclear 
technology, fostering nuclear safety and security and in 
the application of a safeguards regime for verification. 
We  are  therefore  pleased  to  note  that  the  priorities 
identified  by  the  Director  General  align  closely  with 
Jamaica’s priorities. We encourage all fellow Member 
States in a position to do so to continue to contribute 
to  the  technical  cooperation  fund  in  order  to  ensure 
that there are sufficient resources to meet the growing 
demand  for  the  IAEA’s  assistance,  particularly  in  the 
light of its increasing membership.
Jamaica  participated  in  the  fifty-ninth  session 
of  the  General  Conference  of  the  IAEA,  held  in 
September,  which  adopted  key 
resolutions  and 
decisions  in  priority  areas,  including  the  resolution 
on  strengthening  the  Agency’s  technical  cooperation 
activities and the resolutions approving the applications 
from new members. In that regard, we welcome as new 
members to the Agency Turkmenistan and two fellow 
countries  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM), 
Barbados and Antigua and Barbuda. We are heartened 
by the increasing interest from our region in the work 
of  the  IAEA,  which  attests  to  the  important  work  of 
the  Agency  in  supporting  the  application  of  safe  and 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy as a tool of development 
for developing countries and for small island developing 
States in particular.
As we reflect on the newly adopted 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1),  we 
underscore the invaluable contribution of the IAEA to 
sustainable development, which is evident in the direct 
relevance of at least three of the Goals to the mandate 
of the Agency, namely, Goal 3, on health; Goal 6, on the 
sustainable  management  of  water  and  sanitation;  and 
Goal  7,  on  access  to  affordable,  reliable,  sustainable 
and  modern  energy.  Having  benefited  significantly 
from  the  Agency’s  technical  cooperation  activities, 
Jamaica  maintains  a  strong  interest  in  the  IAEA’s 
programmes  and  welcomes  the  thrust  by  the  Agency 
to  synergize  national  development  priorities  and  the 
IAEA’s  assistance  within  the  broader  United  Nations 
development assistance framework.
We wish to express our gratitude for the emergency 
and response preparedness mission to Jamaica in July, 
which  appraised  our  readiness  to  act  in  the  event  of 
an  emergency  associated  with  the  operation  of  our 
Slowpoke II research reactor. We welcome the mission 
team’s  report  and  note  the  recommendations  and 
suggestions  for  our  continued  work.  In  the  field  of 
research and technology, we have embarked on a project 
in partnership with the IAEA, Canada and the United 
States aimed at converting the fuel used in our nuclear 
research reactor from highly enriched uranium to low-
enriched uranium, thereby decreasing non-proliferation 
risks while doubling the reactor’s utilization capacity.
We  express  appreciation  to  the  IAEA  and  the 
Governments of Canada and the United States for the 
assistance being given to Jamaica, in particular under 
the  Peaceful  Uses  Initiative.  The  additional  capacity 
will allow us to expand research work related to food 
safety, food security and air quality. Moreover, with the 
additional  capacity  provided  to  the  Caribbean’s  only 
research reactor, we will be able to accommodate the 
research needs of other countries from the Caribbean. In 
that regard, the critical role of the Regional Cooperation 
Agreement  for  the  Promotion  of  Nuclear  Science  and 
Technology in Latin America and the Caribbean must 
be  emphasized.  Jamaica  sees  the  Agreement  as  an 
important mechanism for technical cooperation in the 
region and to that end is currently advancing domestic 
arrangements  to  join  in  the  first  extension  of  the 
Agreement.
A priority area of development to which technical 
cooperation  has  been  directed  is  the  area  of  human 
health.  We  consider  the  use  of  nuclear  medicine  to 
be  critical.  Moreover,  Jamaica  sees  a  productive  and 
healthy workforce as fundamental to our development, 
and we welcome the contribution of the IAEA to meeting 
that development objective through the implementation 
of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer  Therapy  and 
the  current  programme  to  re-establish  public  nuclear-
medicine services in Jamaica.
Jamaica  is  pleased  to  report  that,  in  July  of  this 
year,  our  Parliament  adopted  the  Nuclear  Safety  and 
Radiation Act, which provides a legal framework for the 
regulation of activities, practices and facilities involving 
radiation and nuclear technology. This new legislation is 
aimed at protecting human health and the environment 
while  harnessing  the  benefits  of  nuclear  technology. 
In  addition,  we  continue  to  work  with  the  IAEA  on 
issues relating to the safe transportation of radioactive 
materials,  given  the  fundamental  importance  of  such 
materials to health care and to industry in general. More 
recently,  the  IAEA  has  cooperated  with  CARICOM’s 
programme for the implementation of Security Council 
resolution  1540  (2004)  by  staging  a  special  initiative 
targeting  CARICOM  member  States,  with  a  focus  on 
24/28 
15-37040
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.55
the safe transportation of nuclear materials. The main 
rationale for that initiative, which commenced in June 
2014, is to address the deficit of regulatory mechanisms 
within  CARlCOM  member  States,  in  order  to  ensure 
the  safe  transportation  of  nuclear  and  radiological 
materials  commonly  used  in  several  development-
related domains, particularly in the health sector.
As  the  Agency  seeks  to  accelerate  and  enlarge 
the  contribution  of  nuclear  energy  to  peace,  health 
and prosperity, Jamaica renews its commitment to the 
goal  of  the  safe  and  effective  uses  of  that  technology 
for  the  global  good.  To  that  end,  we  pledge  our  full 
cooperation and support for the work of the Agency in 
collaboration with other members and partners, towards 
the fulfilment of its mandate.
Mr.  Alokly  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  After 
considering  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (see  A/70/219),  my  delegation  would 
like  to  express  its  appreciation  to  the  secretariat  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  in 
particular  its  Department  of  Technical  Cooperation, 
which has given us a great deal of support, in particular 
in the fields of health, water-resource management and 
education, fields that are priorities for us at the national 
level.  My  delegation  affirms  the  right  of  developing 
countries to benefit from the peaceful uses of nuclear 
power  and  to  receive  nuclear  technology,  to  share 
nuclear knowledge and to benefit from the transfer of 
nuclear technology.
Libya’s position is very clear with respect to taking 
practical  steps  to  support  the  IAEA  and  to  maintain 
its  credibility.  We  will  implement  the  three  pillars 
of  the  work  of  the  IAEA.  Moreover,  we  affirm  our 
commitment  to  implementing  the  Additional  Protocol 
and  encourage  countries  that  have  not  yet  done  so 
to  accede  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons (NPT). We also confirm that we will 
respect  all  the  international  instruments  to  which  we 
have acceded in the past.
We  commend  the  international  measures  that  the 
IAEA takes to encourage cooperation in the peaceful 
uses of nuclear energy. We have acceded to a number 
of  international  instruments  in  that  sphere  and  have 
established  an  office  for  nuclear  safeguards  that  we 
intend  to  transform  into  an  independent  verification 
and monitoring authority, in line with international and 
national  legislation  and  the  statute  of  the  IAEA.  We 
also  commend  the  work  of  the  IAEA  in  its  efforts  to 
end the use of nuclear weapons for terrorist purposes.
It has been 20 years since the Final Document of 
the 1995 NPT Review Conference was adopted and the 
decision was taken to establish a nuclear-weapon-free 
zone in the Middle East. That decision was confirmed 
in  the  Final  Document  of  the  2010  NPT  Review 
Conference,  which  stated  that  the  NPT  would  remain 
valid until its aims were achieved. We were therefore 
both  shocked  and  disappointed  by  the  failure  of  the 
2015 NPT Review Conference. In that respect, we call 
upon  the  Secretary-General  and  the  three  sponsoring 
countries  to  make  every  possible  effort  to  free  the 
Middle East of nuclear weapons and to make up for the 
failure of the 2015 Conference.
Our  delegation  calls  on  all  countries  possessing 
nuclear weapons to begin the process of disarming and 
ceasing all programmes aimed at their development, in 
accordance  with  article  VI  of  the  NPT,  as  reaffirmed 
during  the  Conferences  of  2000  and  2010.  At  those 
Conferences,  it  was  stressed  that  the  nuclear-weapon 
States parties to the NPT had the obligation to abandon 
nuclear  weapons  because  those  weapons  represent  an 
acute danger to the world, and countries with nuclear 
weapons  must  assume  that  responsibility.  Otherwise, 
the  goal  of  establishing  nuclear-weapon-free  zones 
would be meaningless.
Mr. Al Musharakh (United Arab Emirates) (spoke 
in  Arabic):  At  the  outset,  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
recognizes  the  importance  of  solidarity  in  facing  and 
combating terrorism in all its forms.
(spoke in English)
The  United  Arab  Emirates  welcomes  the  report 
(see  A/70/219)  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA)  and  recognizes 
the  central  and 
crucial  role  of  the  IAEA  in  regard  to  the  peaceful 
use  of  nuclear  technology,  which  serves  both  the 
advancement  of  national  nuclear-power  programmes 
and other non-power applications. We believe that the 
Agency  plays  a  fundamental  role  in  supporting  the 
exchange of scientific knowledge and nuclear expertise 
among  its  member  States.  The  United  Arab  Emirates 
reiterates its commitment to working closely with the 
IAEA and abides by its standards, as underlined in the 
Government’s nuclear policy principles.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  is  among  the  IAEA 
member  States  that  are  developing  a  civil  nuclear-
15-37040
25/28
A/70/PV.55 
17/11/2015
power  programme,  with  a  scheduled  operation  date 
for  its  first  reactor  in  the  year  2017.  Since  launching 
its nuclear programme at the national level, the United 
Arab  Emirates  has  made  significant  progress  in  the 
development of its details and associated infrastructure. 
There  are  currently  four  nuclear-power  reactor  units 
under construction at the Barakah Nuclear Power Plant, 
with  a  little  more  than  75  per  cent  of  the  first  unit 
completed. In making such progress, the United Arab 
Emirates views the Agency as a valuable partner, from 
which it receives guidance and the necessary support, 
and to whose achievements it contributes in return.
The United Arab Emirates continues to attach the 
utmost  importance  to  nuclear  safety  and  supports  the 
efforts of the international community in ensuring and 
strengthening nuclear safety. The work of the IAEA is 
particularly relevant in achieving that goal. My country 
commends the Agency’s efforts in producing the report 
on the Fukushima Daiichi accident and believes that it 
will be of great value in developing other programmes 
at  the  Agency,  including  peer  reviews  and  standards 
work, among others.
In regard to measures to strengthen the country’s 
nuclear safety infrastructure, the United Arab Emirates 
continues to benefit from the Agency’s review services. 
To  date,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  has  received 
numerous  review  missions  examining  various  areas 
of nuclear infrastructure, nuclear security, emergency 
planning  and  the  nuclear-safety  framework.  To  that 
end,  the  IAEA’s  efforts  in  supporting  the  responsible 
global development of nuclear power is highly valuable. 
That  includes  convening  high-level  conferences  on 
nuclear  power,  which  has  been  an  important  part  of 
the  Agency’s  work.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  looks 
forward to hosting the next International Conference on 
Nuclear Power in 2017 in Abu Dhabi. The United Arab 
Emirates  will  make  available  its  long  and  successful 
experience  in  hosting  international  and  high-profile 
events.
My  country  commends  the  Director  General’s 
the  Agency’s  Technical 
efforts 
in  strengthening 
Cooperation  Programme 
activities.  We 
remain 
supportive  of  the  Agency’s  approach  in  tailoring 
technical  cooperation  projects  to  the  needs  of  the 
member States, which maintain their ownership of the 
respective  programmes.  The  United  Arab  Emirates 
believes that the IAEA has a central role in promoting 
nuclear security through the promotion of cooperation 
and  the  sharing  of  best  practices.  The  IAEA  is  well 
suited  to  coordinating  international  efforts,  because 
nuclear  security  is  not  isolated  from  other  nuclear 
matters under its auspices. My country has subscribed 
to and continues to implement all relevant international 
instruments  with  the  objective  of  enhancing  nuclear 
security  at  the  national,  regional  and  international 
levels.
As a country that has approved the Amendment to 
the  Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  welcomes  the 
progress  made  in  the  number  of  countries  that  have 
also  approved  it  and  looks  forward  to  its  early  entry 
into  force.  Additionally,  my  country  recognizes  the 
importance  of  the  IAEA  system  as  a  verification 
mechanism and supports its continued development to 
address the challenges, meet the objectives and provide 
credible assurances.
In  conclusion,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  looks 
forward to its continued cooperation with the IAEA and 
the international community to ensure the responsible, 
safe and transparent use of nuclear energy. My delegation 
expresses its appreciation to the Director General and 
the  secretariat  of  the  IAEA  for  the  tremendous  work 
and achievements that the Agency has accomplished, as 
reflected in the 2014 annual report.
Mr. Sergeyev (Ukraine): Because this is my first 
statement after the terrible events in Paris, I would like 
to express the position of my delegation.
(spoke in French)
My  delegation  is  deeply  shocked  by  the  terrorist 
attacks in Paris. We express our profound and sincere 
condolences  to  the  French  people.  It  is  our  shared 
tragedy.  That  horrible  crime  must  be  punished  by  all 
possible means.
(spoke in English)
Ukraine supports the activities of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in promoting the use of 
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. We view all the 
activities of the IAEA in a positive light in all its main 
statutory  areas:  nuclear  safety  and  security,  nuclear 
science, technology applications, safeguards and nuclear 
verification.  The  Agency  contributes  significantly  to 
achieving global development goals. We acknowledge 
the central role of the Agency in strengthening the global 
nuclear-safety framework. Accidents at the Chernobyl 
and Fukushima Daiichi nuclear-power plants triggered 
the revision of international safety standards. To ensure 
26/28 
15-37040
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.55
the highest safety level for nuclear waste and radiation 
worldwide, we are convinced that the use and further 
development of nuclear power should be undertaken in 
strict compliance with safety standards and regulations. 
Ukraine, which has 15 operating nuclear power units in 
one of the largest nuclear power programmes in Europe, 
fully shares that approach.
We  reiterate  our  strong  support  for  the  Agency’s 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme.  Ukraine  values 
the  Programme’s  role  in  the  responsible  development 
of  peaceful  applications  of  nuclear  technology  in  the 
areas  of  human  health,  food  and  agriculture,  water 
management,  and  the  strengthening  of  nuclear  and 
radiation safety. The Programme serves as a powerful 
tool for the exchange of nuclear knowledge and capacity-
building in member States. IAEA regional and national 
technical  cooperation  projects  have  significantly 
contributed to nuclear safety and improving the overall 
effectiveness of the peaceful use of nuclear energy in 
Ukraine.
During  2014-2015,  Ukraine 
implemented  a 
number of IAEA projects in such areas as supporting 
radioactive-waste  management  and  nuclear-power-
plant  decommissioning,  developing  decontamination, 
recultivation  and  reconstruction  infrastructure  for 
existing uranium mines and former uranium-production 
facilities,  defining  safety  goals  and 
regulatory 
strategies  for  newly  built  and  long-time  operating 
nuclear-power plants and strengthening of a secondary 
standards  dosimetry  laboratory  for  radiation  therapy 
dosimetry.  We  continue  to  support  ongoing  regional 
projects  for  Europe  aimed  at  facilitating  the  return 
to  normal  radiological  environmental  conditions  for 
the territories affected by the Chernobyl accident and 
supporting  decommissioning  and  waste  management 
for Chernobyl, Ignalina and A-1 nuclear-power plants. 
Ukraine  stands  ready  to  actively  cooperate  with 
the  Agency  during  the  next  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme cycle in 2016-2017.
Ukraine highly appreciates the work of the Agency 
in preparing the part of the report (see A/70/219) devoted 
to the Fukushima Daiichi accident, which presents an 
authoritative,  factual  and  balanced  assessment  of  the 
causes  and  consequences  of  the  accident  as  well  as 
the lessons learned. Ukraine recognizes the Agency’s 
leading role in the field of nuclear non-proliferation. The 
IAEA safeguards are a set of technical measures that 
allow the IAEA to independently verify a State’s legal 
commitment  to  using  nuclear  material  and  facilities 
only for peaceful purposes. In this regard, we continue 
to call upon all States to adopt the IAEA comprehensive 
safeguards agreement and the additional protocol. We 
confirm  our  support  for  the  activities  of  the  Agency 
aimed at strengthening the effectiveness and improving 
the  efficiency  of  the  safeguards  system  and  welcome 
the  efforts  of  the  Agency  with  a  view  to  preventing 
the diversion of nuclear energy from peaceful uses to 
military purposes.
territorial 
Ukraine  does  not  recognize  the  illegitimately 
proclaimed Republic of Crimea and its illegal annexation 
by  the  Russian  Federation  as  a  constituent  entity.  By 
adopting  resolution  68/262  of  27  March  2014,  on  the 
territorial  integrity  of  Ukraine,  the  GeneralAssembly 
affirmed  its  commitment  to  the  sovereignty,  political 
independence,  unity  and 
integrity  of 
Ukraine within its internationally recognized borders. 
The  Assembly  also  called  on  all  States,  international 
organizations and specialized agencies not to recognize, 
either directly or indirectly, any alteration of the status 
of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of 
Sevastopol. Ukraine retains jurisdiction over all nuclear 
facilities and materials, including the research reactor 
IR-100  and  other  nuclear  facilities  of  the  Sevastopol 
National  University  of  Nuclear  Energy  and  Industry, 
which are the property of Ukraine and currently located 
in the temporarily occupied territory.
The  provisions  of  the  1995  Agreement  between 
Ukraine and the IAEA for the application of safeguards 
in connection with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons and the 2000 Additional Protocol 
thereto remain fully in effect and apply to the nuclear 
facilities  and  materials  in  Ukraine,  including  those 
located  in  the  temporarily  occupied  territory  of  the 
Autonomous  Republic  of  Crimea  and  the  city  of 
Sevastopol. In this regard, Ukraine supports the position 
of  the  United  Nations  Office  of  Legal  Affairs,  which 
provided  guidelines  to  legal  advisers  in  the  United 
Nations  system  on  how  to  comply  with  resolution 
68/262,  stating,  among  other  things,  that  treaties  to 
which Ukraine is a party remain applicable to the entire 
territory of Ukraine, including Crimea.
Ukraine  welcomes 
the  principled  position 
the  Agency  has  taken  in  continuing  to  implement 
safeguards  in  Ukraine  in  accordance  with  Ukraine’s 
Comprehensive Safeguards Agreement and Additional 
Protocol 
thereto.  Consequently,  all  facilities  and 
nuclear material in Crimea continue to be covered by 
the  Agreement  between  Ukraine  and  the  Agency,  as 
15-37040
27/28
A/70/PV.55 
17/11/2015
stated by the Director of the Office of Legal Affairs of 
the IAEA secretariat on 10 June 2015 and in the note 
verbale  of  the  IAEA  secretariat  dated  22  September 
2014.  Ukraine  welcomes  the  secretariat’s  conclusion, 
contained  in  the  safeguards  implementation  report  of 
2014,  that  it  has  found  no  indication  of  the  diversion 
of  declared  nuclear  material  from  peaceful  nuclear 
activities  and  no  indication  of  undeclared  nuclear 
material  or  activities  in  Ukraine.  In  confirming  the 
broad  conclusion  for  Ukraine,  the  IAEA  secretariat 
once  again  stressed  that  the  IAEA  safeguards  apply 
to all nuclear material located throughout the territory 
of  Ukraine,  including  the  Autonomous  Republic  of 
Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, in accordance with 
Ukraine’s  Comprehensive  Safeguards  Agreement  and 
the Additional Protocol thereto.
The  IAEA  did  not  undertake  on-site  verification 
activity  in  2014  at  the  IR-100  research  reactor  and 
the subcritical uranium water assembly located at the 
Sevastopol National University of Nuclear Energy and 
Industry of Ukraine because of the external aggression 
of  the  neighbouring  State  —  aggression  that  resulted 
in the illegal occupation and annexation of an integral 
part of Ukraine’s territory by the Russian Federation. 
We  call  on  the  Russian  Federation  to  abide  by  the 
tenets of international law and reverse the annexation 
of  the  Autonomous  Republic  of  Crimea.  This  will 
provide appropriate access for the IAEA to the nuclear 
facilities  and  material  of  Ukraine  under  Ukraine’s 
Comprehensive Safeguards Agreement.
Ukraine  fully  supports  draft  resolution  A/70/L.8, 
on the report of the IAEA, which was initially prepared 
by the Agency secretariat. It was elaborated in a factual 
and unbiased manner, based on the IAEA statute and 
the Agreement governing the relationship between the 
United Nations and the Agency.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  join  in  supporting 
the  annual  report  for  2014  and  express  our  sincere 
appreciation 
IAEA  Director 
General Yukiya Amano and the Agency secretariat in 
encouraging and assisting the development and practical 
application of atomic energy for peaceful uses.
the  efforts  of 
for 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
28/28 
15-37040
