United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
33rd plenary meeting
Thursday, 15 October 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.33
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 112
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(a) Election of five non-permanent members of the 
Security Council
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now 
proceed to the election of five non-permanent members 
of the Security Council to replace those members whose 
term of office expires on 31 December 2015.
The five outgoing non-permanent members are the 
following: Chad, Chile, Jordan, Lithuania and Nigeria. 
Those  five  States  cannot  be  re-elected.  Their  names 
should therefore not appear on the ballot papers.
Apart from the five permanent members, in the year 
2016  the  Security  Council  will  include  the  following 
States: Angola, Malaysia, New Zealand, Spain and the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. The names of those 
States  should  therefore  also  not  appear  on  the  ballot 
papers.
Of the five non-permanent members that will remain 
in office in the year 2016, two are from Africa and the 
Asia-Pacific  region,  one  is  from  Latin  America  and 
the Caribbean and two are from the Western European 
and other States. Consequently, pursuant to paragraph 
3 of resolution 1991 A (XVIII), of 17 December 1963, 
the  five  non-permanent  members  should  be  elected 
according to the following pattern: three from African 
and the Asia-Pacific region, one from Eastern Europe 
and  one  from  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean.  The 
ballot papers reflect that pattern.
In  accordance  with  established  practice,  there  is 
an understanding to the effect that, of the three States 
to be elected from among the African and Asia-Pacific 
States,  two  should  be  from  Africa  and  one  from  the 
Asia-Pacific region.
I  should  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  those 
candidates — their number not exceeding the number 
of  seats  to  be  filled —  receiving  the  greatest  number 
of  votes  and  a  two-thirds  majority  of  those  present 
and  voting  will  be  declared  elected.  If  the  number  of 
candidates obtaining a two-thirds majority is less than 
the  number  of  members  to  be  elected,  there  shall  be 
additional ballots to fill the remaining places, the voting 
being restricted to the candidates obtaining the greatest 
number of votes in the previous ballot to a number not 
more than twice the places remaining to be filled.
Also,  consistent  with  past  practice,  in  case  a 
tied  vote  should  make  it  necessary  to  determine  the 
candidate to be elected or proceed to the next round of 
restricted  balloting,  there  will  be  a  special  restricted 
ballot limited to those candidates that have obtained an 
equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
these procedures?
It was so decided.
The President: In accordance with rule 92 of the 
rules of procedure, the election shall be held by secret 
ballot, and there shall be no nominations.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-31541 (E)
*1531541*
A/70/PV.33 
15/10/2015
Regarding  candidatures, 
the  Secretariat  has 
been  informed  by  the  Chairpersons  of  the  respective 
regional groups of the following. For the three vacant 
seats from among the African and Asia-Pacific States, 
there  are  three  endorsed  candidates,  namely,  Egypt, 
Japan and Senegal. For the one vacant seat from among 
the  Eastern  European  States,  there  is  one  candidate, 
namely, Ukraine. For the one vacant seat from among 
the Latin American and Caribbean States, there is one 
endorsed candidate, namely, Uruguay.
In accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure, 
we shall proceed now to the election by secret ballot.
I  should  like  to  seek  the  usual  cooperation  of 
representatives  during  the  time  of  the  conduct  of  the 
election.  Please  be  reminded  that  during  the  voting 
process,  all  campaigning  should  cease  in  the  General 
Assembly Hall. That means in particular that once the 
meeting has begun, no more campaign material can be 
distributed  inside  the  Hall.  All  participants  are  also 
requested  to  remain  at  their  seats  so  that  the  voting 
process can proceed in an orderly manner. I thank them 
for their cooperation.
I would also like to remind members of the press 
not  to  focus  their  cameras  on  delegations  during  the 
voting process, taking into account that this is a secret 
ballot, in accordance with the rules of procedure of the 
General Assembly. I thank them for their cooperation.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that, pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly, no representative 
shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order 
on the actual conduct of the voting. In addition, ballot 
papers will only be given to the delegate seated directly 
behind the country’s nameplate.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected.
Ballot papers marked “A”,”B” and “C” will now be 
distributed. I request representatives to use only those 
ballot papers that have been distributed.
I would like to ask representatives to write on the 
ballot  papers  marked  “A”,  for  the  African  and  Asia-
Pacific States, the names of the three States for which 
they wish to vote; on the ballot papers marked “B”, for 
the Eastern European States, the name of the one State 
for  which  they  wish  to  vote;  and  on  the  ballot  papers 
marked  “C”,  for  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States, the name of the one State for which they wish 
to vote.
A ballot will be declared invalid if it contains more 
names of Member States from the relevant region than 
the number of seats assigned to it. A ballot will also be 
declared  invalid  if  none  of  the  names  of  the  Member 
States  on  that  ballot  belong  to  the  relevant  region.  If 
a  ballot  paper  of  a  region  includes  names  of  Member 
States that belong to that region and of Member States 
that are from outside that region, the ballot remains valid 
but  only  the  names  of  the  Member  States  that  belong 
to  the  relevant  region  will  be  counted.  The  names  of 
Member States that do not belong to that region will not 
be counted.
At the invitation of the President, Mr. Santa Rosa 
(Angola),  Mr.  Crilchuk  (Argentina),  Mr.  Kodellas 
(Greece),  Ms.  O’Brien  (Ireland),  Mrs.  Batsuren 
(Mongolia)  and  Mr.  Stefanik  (Poland)  acted  as 
tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.25  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.15 a.m.
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as 
follows:
Group A — African and Asia-Pacific States
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required two-thirds majority: 
Number of votes obtained:
Senegal 
Japan 
Egypt 
Group B — Eastern European States
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required two-thirds majority: 
Number of votes obtained:
Ukraine 
192
1
191
1
190
127
187
184
179
192
1
191
14
177
118
177
2/3 
15-31541
15/10/2015 
A/70/PV.33
Group C — Latin American and Caribbean States
192
Number of ballot papers: 
1
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
191
6
Abstentions: 
185
Number of members voting: 
Required two-thirds majority: 
124
Number of votes obtained:
Uruguay 
185
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority 
and  the  largest  number  of  votes,  Egypt,  Japan, 
Senegal,  Ukraine  and  Uruguay  were  elected 
members  of  the  Security  Council  for  a  two-year 
term beginning on 1 January 2016.
The President: The following five States have thus 
been  elected  members  of  the  Security  Council  for  a 
mandate  of  two  years,  beginning  on  1  January  2016: 
Egypt, Japan, Senegal, Ukraine and Uruguay.
I  congratulate  the  States  that  have  been  elected 
members of the Security Council, and I thank the tellers 
for their assistance in this election.
Before  concluding,  I  should  remind  members 
that  pursuant  to  paragraph  17  of  resolution  68/307  of 
10  September  2014,  the  election  of  non-permanent 
members of the Security Council for the two-year term 
beginning in 2017 will take place during the resumed 
part of the current session, in the spring of 2016.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 
112.
The meeting rose at 11.20 a.m.
15-31541
3/3
