United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
38th plenary meeting
Friday, 23 October 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.38
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 122 (continued)
Strengthening of the United Nations system
Draft resolution (A/70/L.4)
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  the 
Assembly  considered  agenda  item  122  at  its  29th 
and  30th  plenary  meetings,  held  on  12  October.  I 
wish  to  thank  all  delegations  for  their  proposals  and 
cooperation,  which  resulted  in  the  submission  of  the 
draft  resolution  under  this  item.  I  particularly  thank 
the Spanish delegation for undertaking the process of 
consultations.  It  is  fitting  that  the  General  Assembly 
should  consider  a  declaration  on  the  occasion  of  the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  our  Organization,  in  which 
we  solemnly  reaffirm  our  faith  in  the  United  Nations 
and  our  unfailing  commitment  to  the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter, as well as to the Charter in its 
entirety, and on the eve of the anniversary of its entry 
into force.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/70/L.4,  entitled  “Declaration  on 
the 
occasion  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United 
Nations”.  May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to 
adopt it?
Draft resolution A/70/L.4 was adopted (resolution 
70/3).
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda item 122.
The meeting rose at 3.10 p.m.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-33159 (E)
*1533159*
