United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
22nd plenary meeting
Thursday, 1 October 2015, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.22
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Address by Mr. Dragan Čović, Chairman of the 
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina.
Mr.  Dragan  Čović,  Chairman  of  the  Presidency 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Dragan  Čović,  Chairman  of  the 
Presidency  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Čović  (spoke  in  Bosnian;  English  text 
provided by the delegation): Six days ago, world leaders, 
who gathered in this very Hall, brought to life a new 
vision of a just and sustainable world, free from poverty, 
fear and oppression. We agreed that our achievements, 
as well as our mistakes and failures, of the past decades 
formed a sufficiently solid foundation to transform the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1) into a reality, rather than a utopia.
in  creating  and  adopting 
The  determination  and  unity 
that  we  have 
demonstrated 
the  new 
Agenda  have  a  special  symbolism  this  year  as  we 
mark  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  Organization 
that  continues  to  bring  us  all  together,  big  and  small 
countries alike, and has never ceased to be a beacon of 
hope in times of despair.
The  anniversary  that  we  are  celebrating  also 
offers  us  an  opportunity  to  analyse  and  evaluate  the 
degree of progress that we have made individually and 
collaboratively in achieving the objectives set out in the 
Charter of the United Nations. We do that in the context 
of today’s highly dynamic global environment, which 
continues to bring in new challenges.
Those  challenges  are  many,  and  it  is  increasingly 
difficult  to  predict  the  consequences  of  our  failure  to 
address them effectively. The crisis in Syria was, until 
only  recently,  merely  a  crisis  in  one  country  in  one 
region  of  the  Middle  East.  Not  long  ago,  the  refugee 
and the migrant crisis of the Syrian people materialized 
on  our  country’s  own  borders  and  reminded  us  that 
events  in  other  places  and  regions  and  events  at  our 
own borders are closely intertwined and inseparable in 
today’s global environment.
The  number  of  refugees  and  displaced  persons 
fleeing destruction and death, leaving their homes and 
seeking a safe haven, is increasing literally each hour. 
For the majority of countries, the waves of refugees that 
arrive  confront  them  with  a  heavier  burden  than  they 
are able to manage. In addition, the tragedies involving 
innocent  victims  —  especially  and  unforgivably 
children  —  place  a  great  sense  of  responsibility 
not  only  on  individual  States,  but  also  on  the  entire 
international  community.  They  also  test  the  limits  of 
human solidarity and empathy. At the same time, it is 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29658 (E)
*1529658*
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
a warning to us that we must find urgent and effective 
solutions.
We are therefore very concerned at the deterioration 
in the devastating conflict in Syria, which continues to 
destabilize the region and presents an extremely serious 
threat  to  international  peace  and  security.  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina  strongly  condemns  the  unspeakable 
suffering and torture that the Syrian people are being 
subjected  to.  In  that  regard,  we  support  the  efforts  of 
the  Secretary-General,  the  United  Nations  and  the 
broader international community to find a political and 
peaceful solution to the crisis in Syria. We believe that 
it  is  essential  that  the  political  transition  in  Syria  be 
conducted in accordance with the Geneva communiqué 
of 2012 (S/2012/522, annex).
We  are  also  carefully  monitoring  the  situation 
in  Yemen.  We  are  very  concerned  about  the  political 
destabilization of that country and the deterioration in the 
security and humanitarian situation there, which have, 
to date, taken on intolerable proportions in that country. 
We call on all sides to come to a peaceful settlement of 
all the outstanding issues in order to establish a lasting 
peace  and  to  allow,  without  delay,  the  distribution  of 
humanitarian  aid  to  the  civilian  population.  In  that 
context, the safety of the humanitarian-aid staff and the 
United Nations staff must be ensured.
As  for  the  situation  in  Ukraine,  we  hope  that 
the  parties  to  that  conflict  will  adhere  to  the  peace 
agreement reached in Minsk as the basis for a lasting 
solution.
Terrorism  and  violent  extremism  are,  without 
any  doubt,  the  most  serious  of  all  the  challenges  we 
face  today.  The  ideology  of  such  groups,  which  is 
characterized by an absolute disregard for human life, 
is  seriously  undermining  the  fundamental  values  and 
achievements of civilization.
supports 
the 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
full 
implementation of the United Nations Global Counter-
Terrorism Strategy and the work  of the Counter-Terrorism 
Committee, the activities of which have already shown 
results in strengthening intergovernmental cooperation 
and  improving  the  capacity  of  individual  Member 
States in that area. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a member 
of the Global Coalition to Counter the Islamic State in 
Iraq and the Levant, established in 2014 and led by the 
United States, and it is one of the countries providing 
material assistance to the Government of Iraq as part 
of that effort.
As the Chair of the Council of Europe, our country 
leads the Council’s actions in the fight against terrorism, 
particularly through strengthening the legal framework, 
pursuant to the provisions of Security Council resolution 
2178 (2014). The adoption of the Additional Protocol to 
the  Council  of  Europe  Convention  on  the  Prevention 
of  Terrorism,  adopted  by  the  Committee  of  Ministers 
in May 2015, is a significant step in the fight against 
terrorism.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
emphasize the importance of article 7 of the Additional 
Protocol,  which  provides  for  the  parties  to  exchange 
information  among  the  designated  points  of  contact 
available on a 24-hour, seven-days-a-week basis.
A  limited  military  response,  when  used  as  the 
only  instrument  in  the  fight  against  terrorism  in  all 
its  forms  and  manifestations,  has  accomplished  only 
short-lived  results.  Along  with  decisive,  thorough, 
dedicated  and  well-coordinated  military  action,  there 
must be a comprehensive strategy and holistic approach 
to  combating  violent  extremism  and  terrorism,  which 
should  be  aimed  at  addressing  the  root  causes  of  the 
phenomenon. Among other measures, reducing poverty 
and  inequality,  improving  education  and  providing 
opportunities  to  young  generations  are  extremely 
important, even crucial. Furthermore, eliminating the 
effects  of  prejudice  and  xenophobia  in  our  societies 
and communities also remains essential, if we wish to 
counter the spread of the ideology of violent extremism.
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  welcomes  the  extremely 
important agreement on the Iranian nuclear programme, 
reached  in  Vienna  in  July  2015.  We  believe  that  that 
historic  agreement  is  evidence  of  the  true  superiority 
of diplomatic efforts and the parties’ determination to 
find a peaceful solution. The agreement can serve as a 
guideline for the resolution of other crisis situations.
Undoubtedly, the United Nations offers a guarantee 
of collective responsibility and security, notably through 
the greater use of preventive diplomacy and mediation, 
solid and carefully planned mandates for peacekeeping 
operations, and instruments for building lasting peace. 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  has  endeavoured  to  share 
its  vast  experience  in  peacebuilding  and  democratic 
transition,  particularly  through  our  membership  since 
January  2014  in  the  Organizational  Committee  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  We  support  all  activities 
and  peace  initiatives  aimed  at  conflict  prevention, 
and  we  actively  contribute  to  collective  security  on  a 
global  scale.  By  participating  in  the  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions 
in  South  Sudan,  Cyprus, 
2/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
Somalia,  Afghanistan, 
the  Congo  and  Mali,  we 
contribute  in  the  most  direct  way  to  maintaining  and 
building world peace.
Following  the  suggestions  of  the  United  Nations, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  has  had  a  significant 
participation  of  female  police  officers  among  our 
peacekeeping mission personnel; they now account for 
more than 20 per cent of the total number of our mission 
personnel.  While  our  contribution  to  peacekeeping 
operations, in terms of numbers, is not as large as some 
participating  countries  with  far  larger  military  and 
police forces, we are very proud of the bravery of our 
Bosnia and Herzegovina police officers in peacekeeping 
missions around the world.
The  degree  of  equality  of  women  and  girls 
compared  to  men  with  regard  to  certain  rights  has 
remained  at  a  high  level  for  decades  in  my  country. 
We  have  always  considered  women  to  be  the  pillars 
of  the  family  and  communities  and  the  bearers  of 
our  society’s  development.  Today,  in  the  light  of  the 
events that my country has endured, we are convinced 
that women can be a major factor in reconciliation as 
well. We will therefore invest still greater efforts into 
advancing women’s interests, primarily as the best way 
to heal our society, mend what was broken, strengthen 
the family and enable women’s further development on 
the basis of full equality. As a member of the Executive 
Board  of  UN-Women,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
continues to invest efforts in promoting human rights 
at  the  international  level,  particularly  through  the 
strengthening  of  the  status  of  women  in  accordance 
with the Beijing Platform for Action and the Goals of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Exactly  20  years  ago,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
achieved  a 
long-desired  peace.  Today,  we  are 
intensively working on implementing a reform agenda 
aimed at improving socioeconomic conditions and the 
rule  of  law  in  our  country.  At  the  same  time,  we  are 
implementing  the  obligations  that  we  have  accepted 
under the Stabilization and Association Agreement of 
the European Union, the first of its kind for my country 
with the European Union, which came into force four 
months ago. The next step for my country is to submit 
its membership application and achieve the status of a 
candidate country.
At the same time, we are working to build a society 
that  is  fair  and  equitable  and  that  offers  parity.  I  can 
assure  the  Assembly  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina’s 
strong belief that our past experiences and the lessons 
learned can contribute to solving numerous challenges 
at  both  the  regional  and  the  international  levels.  Our 
candidacy for membership in the Economic and Social 
Council for the period 2017-2019 should be viewed in 
that light. We are taking part in the general efforts to 
achieve a better and more unified world through those 
and similar activities.
Our  commitment  to  full  respect  for  human  rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms  and  the  strengthening 
of  democracy  and  multicultural  dialogue  and  our 
respect  for  ethnic,  cultural  and  religious  diversity 
are  unquestionable.  In 
that  regard,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina will spare no efforts to combat all forms 
of  discrimination  and  intolerance  against  members  of 
any  part  of  society,  as  enshrined  in  our  Constitution. 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  a  complex,  multi-ethnic 
State. In the light of the benefits and advantages that our 
diversity  creates,  acknowledged  even  in  harsh  times, 
we  know  precisely  how  important  it  is  to  protect  all 
individual and collective rights and to bring them into 
mutual harmony in line with the relevant international 
human rights standards. We attach great importance to 
regional  cooperation,  and  we  are  fully  committed  to 
building good relations with our neighbours on the basis 
of  the  principles  of  friendship  and  openness.  We  are 
aware that that is the only path to stability in the region 
of South-East Europe, which has often been turbulent 
in the past. Solely on that foundation can all countries 
in the region attain a full European perspective.
Although not at the top of today’s list of priorities 
for Bosnia and Herzegovina, climate change is among 
the most important globally. Climate change determines 
not only our future but also that of our children and their 
descendants. We have felt the consequences of global 
climate change in Bosnia and Herzegovina, notably in 
the past year during the devastating floods, when many 
of our citizens were forced to leave their homes. Unlike 
many other parts of our planet, Bosnia and Herzegovina 
is rich in large quantities of clean, potable water, which 
is  becoming  increasingly  invaluable  and  rare  in  the 
world we live in. However, that fact is something that 
we  can  no  longer  take  for  granted,  especially  when 
we  realize  how  helpless  and  weak  we  are  before  the 
forces of nature and the countless abuses that we have 
subjected  our  environment  to.  Therefore,  along  with 
the  other  Member  States,  we  place  our  hopes  on  the 
upcoming twenty-first session o fthe Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change in Paris in December. We also call 
upon  the  parties  to  the  Convention  to  redouble  their 
15-29658
3/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
efforts  in  order  to  reach  a  legally  binding  universal 
climate change agreement.
Finally,  we  realize  that  the  United  Nations  will 
need to undergo change in order to continue to be able 
to  respond  to  our  increasingly  complex  requests  and 
expectations. The seventieth anniversary is an occasion 
for celebration, as well as for critical consideration and 
reaffirmation of the values enshrined in the Charter of 
the  United  Nations.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  remains 
fully  committed  to  the  paramount  ideals  of  freedom, 
dignity and economic development for all nations and 
for  the  world,  ideals  that  should  be  enjoyed  by  every 
living being on the planet.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Chairman  of  the  Presidency  of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr. Dragan Čović, Chairman of the Presidency of 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Michel Joseph Martelly, President 
of the Republic of Haiti
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Haiti.
Mr.  Michel  Joseph  Martelly,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Haiti,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Michel  Joseph  Martelly,  President  of 
the Republic of Haiti, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President Martelly (spoke in French): Mr. President, 
I would like to express my warmest congratulations to 
you  on  your  election  as  President  of  our  prestigious 
Assembly  at 
its  seventieth  session.  Your  proven 
experience in international affairs, combined with your 
esteemed personal qualities, bode well for the success 
of this session of the General Assembly.
In  this  pivotal  year,  when  the  Organization  is 
celebrating  its  seventieth  anniversary,  I  would  like 
to  commend  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  and  associate  myself  with  the 
unanimous tributes paid to him for his commitment to 
promoting  peace  and  sustainable  development  and  to 
the  fight  against  climate  change.  The  people  and  the 
Government  of  Haiti  are  particularly  grateful  for  the 
spirit of solidarity that he has always shown with regard 
to our country in its ongoing struggle to strengthen our 
democracy.
In  a  world  where,  in  the  words  of  His  Holiness 
Pope Francis, speaking at the World Meeting of Popular 
Movements,  “global  interdependence  calls  for  global 
answers to local problems”, the challenge to the United 
Nations  today  is  to  reinvent  itself,  to  reform  itself 
and, above all, to be the bearer of a new vision of our 
shared future, a vision capable of reviving the original 
flame and of reuniting Member States around a grand 
collective plan focused on the bedrock of core values on 
which the Organization is built.
In  that  respect,  we  welcome  a  number  of  recent 
diplomatic breakthroughs that bring glimmers of hope 
in international relations. The restoration of diplomatic 
relations between the United States of America and Cuba 
is undoubtedly a historic breakthrough. It allows us to 
anticipate greater serenity in hemispheric relations. The 
Republic of Haiti can only rejoice at that development. 
We pay tribute to the vision, pragmatism and leadership 
shown by the American and Cuban Heads of State, who 
opened a new chapter in the relations between the two 
countries.
Similarly, we welcome the signing of the agreement 
between the Islamic Republic of Iran and the group of 
six countries on the Iranian nuclear issue and the détente 
that has resulted from it. I also welcome the atmosphere 
of  cordiality  and  fraternal  dialogue  that  now  governs 
the  relations  between  the  People’s  Republic  of  China 
and Taiwan. We have no doubt that the new momentum 
in their relations will significantly contribute to a much-
hoped-for thaw among all the countries of South-East 
Asia, moving beyond their differences and divergences. 
The Republic of Haiti encourages the spirit of dialogue 
prevailing in the relations between nations, which seeks 
to reach peaceful solutions to their conflicts.
The Syrian crisis is a real affront to the conscience 
of  humankind.  Non-State  entities  are  expanding  their 
grip every day, particularly in Iraq and Syria, engaging 
in intolerable atrocities against civilian populations and 
in the destruction of world cultural-heritage sites. Such 
threats, which are of an exceptional scale and gravity, 
pose  a  challenge  to  the  international  community.  We 
have a clear obligation to adopt all collective measures 
necessary  so  as  to  ensure  international  security  and 
respect for human rights. We must redouble our efforts 
to oppose with determination the barbarism of terrorist 
4/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
entities and their criminal acts that endanger our shared 
values.  There  can  be  no  real  peace  or  security  if  the 
international  community  shows  weakness  towards 
those who violate international public order.
It  goes  without  saying  that  we  cannot  hope  for 
effective responses to the global challenges of our time 
without narrowing the North-South divide, without an 
intensification of the fight against poverty, and without 
a proactive response to environmental crises that afflict, 
above  all,  the  poorest  countries.  Strengthening  the 
credibility of the United Nations means strengthening 
its  ability  to  act  quickly  and  intervene  effectively  in 
maintaining  peace  and  security,  especially  when  it 
comes  to  preventing  major  crisis  situations,  calming 
recurring sources of tension or resolving conflicts that 
have gone on for too long.
I would like to discuss the situation of my country, 
the Republic of Haiti. On 9 August, an important stage 
in the consolidation of democracy in Haiti was reached. 
An  independent  electoral  council,  chosen  by  civil 
society,  launched  the  electoral  process  that  will  lead 
to  presidential,  legislative,  municipal  and  territorial 
elections before the end of this year.
A  year  ago,  in  his  report  to  the  Security  Council 
on  the  United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti 
(MINUSTAH), 
that 
holding inclusive elections was
the  Secretary-General  noted 
“essential  for  ...  the  consolidation  of  democracy 
and the rule of law and to promote socioeconomic 
development,  which  is  necessary  to  improve  the 
living  conditions  of  the  population  and  achieve 
enduring stability” (S/2014/617, para. 62).
I am pleased to confirm to the General Assembly 
that  my  country  is  on  track.  The  Haitian  people  has 
demonstrated  political  maturity  and  the  ability  to 
take control of its destiny. I wish to express my deep 
gratitude  to  all  of  Haiti’s  cooperation  partners  and  to 
the United Nations for the scale of the support provided 
in the preparation and holding of the electoral contests. 
The  success  of  the  elections  will  be  an  important 
milestone on the country’s road to stability and in the 
political transition in 2016. That will be a key indicator 
of  the  United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti’s 
sound performance and success over the past 11 years.
Significant  progress  has  been  made  in  Haiti, 
especially  during  the  past  four  years.  I  can  say 
that,  under  my  Administration,  democracy  was 
consolidated, institutions guaranteeing the rule of law 
were strengthened, the situation in terms of the security 
environment  has  improved  significantly,  and  human 
rights  have  been  promoted  and  respected.  Never  has 
the number of international conventions ratified by the 
country — on the protection of human rights, the rights 
of  children,  women  and  vulnerable  people  —  been 
more  substantial.  At  the  same  time,  extreme  poverty 
has  declined,  foreign  direct  investment  has  shown  a 
net  expansion,  and,  after  decades  of  stagnation,  the 
economy has returned to growth.
In  terms  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
much progress has been reported. Haiti has reached the 
target for the reduction in the prevalence of underweight 
children  under  5  years  of  age,  three  years  ahead  of 
schedule. Thanks to the universal education enrolment 
programme, which is compulsory and free and was set 
up by my Administration, more than 1 million children 
have  been  able  to  attend  school.  We  have  also  seen 
progress in access to safe drinking water, lower infant-
mortality rates, the alleviation of extreme poverty and 
the fight against social exclusion. In the field of public 
health,  we  have  achieved  undeniable  success  in  the 
fight against HIV/AIDS and malaria.
The progress made in recent years was made possible 
thanks, in part, to the support of MINUSTAH. Those 
achievements  represent  an  outstanding  contribution 
to  the  country’s  stability,  without  which  there  can  be 
no  serious  possibility  of  economic  modernization 
and  sustainable  development.  MINUSTAH  is  in  the 
process  of  adapting  to  a  new  environment,  different 
from  that  prevailing  when  it  was  established.  The 
Haitian  Government  prefers  a  reconfiguration  plan 
that  takes  into  account  the  evolving  situation  on  the 
ground. I reiterate our desire to see the gradual, orderly 
withdrawal  of  the  Mission’s  troops.  The  withdrawal 
of  troops  and  the  transfer  of  responsibilities  to  the 
Haitian  authorities  in  matters  of  the  military,  police 
and development must be made according to an agreed 
calendar,  thereby  avoiding  any  undermining  of  the 
country’s internal or external security.
Defence  and  security 
issues  are  of  primary 
importance for my Administration. I have strengthened 
the National Police and have developed a new defence 
policy, with support from the Inter-American Defence 
Board, through the adoption of a white paper calling for 
the creation of a defence force in the country. The new 
force  will  participate  actively  in  Haiti’s  development, 
with a focus on environmental protection, rescue efforts 
15-29658
5/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
in  cases  of  natural  disaster,  securing  our  borders  and 
strengthening the protection of investments.
As  the  end  of  my  term  approaches,  I  am  pleased 
and  proud  to  have  worked  and  will  continue  to  work 
towards  my  country’s  stability  and  strengthened 
democracy, thereby honouring my solemn commitments 
to  the  Haitian  people,  as  well  as  to  the  international 
community.  I  am  especially  grateful  to  the  various 
United Nations bodies that have stood by us throughout.
Haiti  reaffirms  its  faith  in  the  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization’s 
efforts 
to  promote  peacebuilding  and  strengthen 
international  solidarity.  The  elimination  of  extreme 
poverty  is  not  beyond  our  reach;  it  is  everyone’s 
business.  In  that  regard,  the  Republic  of  Haiti  fully 
supports  the  new  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
established pursuant to the new post-2015 development 
agenda in the form of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  looks  forward  to 
their swift and effective implementation, together with 
the appropriate resources.
At  the  time  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United Nations, the spirit that presided over its creation 
is  more  than  ever  alive.  Faced  with  unprecedented 
global  challenges,  including  the  growing  threat  of 
global  warming,  Member  States  must  ensure  that  the 
Organization  works  to  build  the  impetus  needed  to 
strengthen it as a space for collaboration. A new dynamic 
is  necessary  in  matters  of  peace  and  development, 
under  which  every  State  agrees  that  the  use  of  force 
must be subject to law, where dialogue and the peaceful 
resolution  of  disputes  emerge  as  the  cornerstone  of 
inter-State relations and where the
“recognition  of  the  inherent  dignity  and  of  the 
equal and inalienable rights of all members of the 
human family is the foundation of freedom, justice 
and peace in the world”,
as stated in resolution 217 A (III), of 10 December 1948, 
by which the General Assembly adopted the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Haiti for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Michel  Joseph  Martelly,  President  of  the 
Republic of Haiti, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hery Martial Rajaonarimampianina 
Rakotoarimanana, President of the Republic 
of Madagascar
Hery  Martial 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Madagascar.
Rajaonarimampianina 
Mr. 
the  Republic 
Rakotoarimanana,  President  of 
of  Madagascar,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Hery  Martial  Rajaonarimampianina 
Rakotoarimanana,  President  of 
the  Republic  of 
Madagascar, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Rajaonarimampianina Rakotoarimanana
(spoke  in  French):  My  first  words  are  directed  to  the 
new President of the General Assembly, His Excellency 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  to  whom  I  extend  sincere 
congratulations on his election to that post during this 
session.
I  also  thank  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  leadership  and  tenacity 
in  ensuring  that  our  Organization  remains  the  most 
appropriate and legitimate forum for solving the problems 
of the world.
For our part, we can attest to the active support of the 
United Nations during the election process in Madagascar. 
Moreover, since January, the United Nations has continued 
to support Madagascar through the Peacebuilding Fund.
The seventieth anniversary of the United Nations is a 
historic one, as it coincides with the adoption of the new 
post-2015  development  agenda  in  the  form  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1), 
thereby  auguring  an  ambitious  and  promising  future  for 
our  peoples.  From  the  perspective  of  its  70  years,  the 
United  Nations  remains  a  forum  to  whose  long  journey 
the  world  can  bear  witness.  It  has  overcome  numerous 
challenges, has both strengths and weaknesses, yet it has 
always  remained  clear-sighted  and  committed  to  peace 
and security, and, above all, to the service of humankind.
Let us take objectively assess its work over the past 70 
years. To be fair, we should assess them objectively. During 
the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs), poverty has been our main enemy. Yet today it 
is clear that poverty remains and inequality persists. Our 
goal of eradicating extreme poverty has not been fully met, 
6/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
although there has been significant progress. The MDGs 
have largely contributed to growth in many countries and 
have  encouraged  each  country  to  redouble  its  efforts  to 
adopt practical strategies to help avert difficulties. Today, 
the new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) aspire to 
that same vision. The Assembly has thereby shown a new 
commitment  in  line  with  the  requirements  of  our  ever-
changing  world,  to  which  we  must  constantly  adapt  our 
strategies.
The new post-2015 development Agenda will fuel our 
future  actions  aimed  at  creating  noticeable  and  lasting 
impacts  for  the  benefit  of  humankind.  We  do  not  have 
the right to fail to meet the expectations of our peoples. 
We must ensure the well-being and the daily lives of our 
peoples, as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations 
because  today,  extreme  poverty  still  prevails  in  many 
countries of the world, and threats to global security also 
deserve our urgent attentionl. Terrorism, climate change 
and  the  recurring  problems  associated  with  poverty 
are  factors  pushing  populations  to  flee  in  the  hope  of  a 
better future or simply a life of dignity. By adopting the 
new  post-2015  development  Agenda,  we  are  offering 
Governments a solution for development that enables them 
to  act  effectively.  Since  its  independence,  Madagascar 
has  consistently  promoted  the  same  values  as  those  of 
the  United  Nations  and  has  taken  the  same  path  as  the 
Organization in adopting policies and universal strategies.
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
the world has just set the foundation for a new framework 
for  its  development.  Commitments  have  been  made  to 
leave future generations a better world, given our current 
natural resources and the fact that they are not unlimited. 
With  that  common  aim,  Madagascar  would  like  to 
renew  its  commitment  to  implementing  the  new  post-
2015  development  Agenda,  which  will  serve  as  a  frame 
of  reference  and  aid  in  the  realization  of  our  national 
development plan.
In  adopting 
The  global  threat  of  climate  change  deserves  our 
unwavering attention. We all have an obligation to achieve 
results, faced with that global scourge. The coming twenty-
first session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
to  be  held  in  Paris  in  December,  will  provide  the  ideal 
framework for showing our solidarity in that fight. While 
t developing countries are not the main parties responsible 
for the causes of climate change, they pay a heavy price 
for it, especially because they lack the resources needed to 
confront  those  challenges.  Madagascar  routinely  suffers 
from the consequences of climate change, which have led 
to  agricultural  losses  and  the  destruction  of  basic  social 
infrastructures and have often set back efforts to achieve 
socioeconomic development.
On  24  September,  we  submitted  our  national 
proposal with a commitment to reducing greenhouse-gas 
emissions  by  14  per  cent  and  to  increasing  absorption 
capacity to 32 per cent by 2030. With a view to protecting 
biodiversity — and Madagascar holds a significant portion 
of that world heritage — we recently supported resolution 
69/314,  entitled  “Tackling  illicit  trafficking  in  wildlife”. 
In  addition,  with  regard 
to  disaster-risk  reduction, 
we  have  been  fully  involved  in  the  implementation  of 
resolution 69/283, on the Sendai Framework for Disaster 
Risk  Reduction  2015-2030,  adopted  in  June  2015,  which 
was  designed  to  reduce  disaster  risks.  The  Malagasy 
Government focuses particular attention on its population, 
especially  the  most  vulnerable.  Its  visionary  social 
protection policy will enable it to significantly reduce the 
number  of  people  living  in  extreme  poverty  by  2030,  in 
line with the new post-2015 development agenda.
The country is also involved in the implementation of 
the Secretary-General’s plan on the reduction of maternal 
mortality. We have launched a campaign to speed up the 
reduction of maternal mortality and another against early 
marriage. In regard to food security, I would like to share 
our  promising  regional  prospect  to  make  Madagascar 
the  breadbasket  of  the  Indian  Ocean.  Such  fundamental 
transformations  must  be  based  on  support  for  the  civil 
sector.  Our  men,  women,  youth  and  children  must  have 
access  to  education,  basic  health  care,  security  and 
justice.  We  have  a  young  population,  which  commits  us 
to meeting the challenge of education as well as training 
and job creation. It is our joint responsibility to offer our 
young people decent work.
A  new  era  is  opening  before  us.  New  hope  is  being 
built with the advent of the new Sustainable Development 
Goals.  By  meeting  in  this  Hall  today,  each  nation  is 
providing  proof  of  its  commitment  to  make  progress  on 
those  Goals.  The  SDGs  must  not  simply  be  a  reference 
point  and  ready  guide  in  the  fight  against  poverty.  All 
our  actions  must  be  capitalized  on,  brought  together  for 
sustainable human development, because there is no world 
apart from that of humankind. All our efforts should be 
focused  on  capitalizing  on  sustainable  development, 
because  human  beings  are  our  richest  resource.  Human 
capital is both the stakeholder for and beneficiary of the 
SDGs. The development of human capital must be at the 
heart of all of our actions. Our peoples’ security, in all its 
15-29658
7/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
forms, must be ensured so that we can move away from 
extreme  poverty  and  vulnerability,  which  are  becoming 
chronic.
Cybercrime, 
We  are  convinced  that  wars,  crises,  conflicts  and 
insecurity are the root causes of systematic violations of 
human rights. In that light, peace and security remain the 
Achilles heel of all development strategies. It is through 
that  shared  vision  that  Madagascar  is  pursuing  its  path 
towards democracy and stability. We all agree that there 
is no real development without lasting peace and security.
transnational  organized  crime  and 
terrorism  have  become  more  pressing  issues.  We  are 
fighting faceless enemies, and we must constantly adapt 
our strategies against those new threats. The security of 
our peoples must therefore be ensured in order to remove 
them from poverty and vulnerability. We are engaged in 
many forms of combat against urban and rural insecurity 
and  are  fighting  against  all  kinds  of  trafficking  and 
looting, which impacts our natural resources on land and 
at  sea.  On  that  issue,  our  country  will  be  the  location 
for the Maritime Information Fusion Centre, serving the 
Indian Ocean and East and Southern Africa with a view to 
assisting in combating maritime piracy, all types of illicit 
trafficking and terrorism.
With  regard  to  the  democratic  process  of  carrying 
out elections, Madagascar is in a good position to provide 
a  favourable  environment  for  the  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals. Without institutional and 
political stability, the progress we envisage and to which 
the population aspires will not be lasting and shared.
In  the  area  of  collective  security,  I  would  like  to 
pay  tribute  to  the  commitment  of  peacekeeping  mission 
personnel.  Madagascar  actively  participates  by  sending 
peacekeeping officers. From this podium, we declare our 
intention to deploy, for the first time, an infantry battalion 
to peacekeeping operations by 2017.
On the topic of the fight against human trafficking, 
Madagascar  has  ratified  the  main  relevant  international 
legal instruments on human rights, and it recently ratified 
the  International  Convention  on  the  Protection  of  the 
Rights  of  All  Migrant  Workers  and  Members  of  Their 
Families (resolution 45/158). As some in this Hall know, 
Madagascar  has  also  sought  to  meet  its  international 
commitments  by  regularly  submitting  its  reports  on 
human  rights  to  the  various  human  rights  treaty  bodies 
and to the Human Rights Council in the framework of the 
Universal  Periodic  Review,  whose  recommendations  are 
implemented through a national operational plan.
This  year,  Madagascar  deposited  its  instrument  of 
ratification  of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons 
with Disabilities. During a meeting in New York earlier 
in  2015,  in  keeping  with  its  international  commitments, 
Madagascar  reaffirmed 
to  promote 
women’s  rights  and  renewed  its  previous  commitment 
made in Beijing. We are joining our efforts with those of 
others in seeking to make the representation of countries 
on the Security Council more equitable. It is only fair that 
that opportunity be offered to under-represented regions 
such as Africa.
its  commitment 
The General Assembly remains the body most suited 
to the task of  overcoming the major challenges associated 
with the eradication of poverty and the disruptive effects 
of  climate  change.  The  issues  of  migration,  peace  and 
security  are  no  less  important.  The  resolution  of  those 
complex  problems  constitutes  a  top  priority  among  the 
SDGs and Africa’s Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want.
Mr. González Franco (Paraguay), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
Given the momentum created by the newly adopted 
2030  Agenda,  Madagascar  foresees  that  the  next  15 
years will be rich in collective action and solidarity. In 
accordance with the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, our 
country is committed to mobilizing its own resources 
and  urges  our  international  partners  to  do  the  same. 
Accordingly,  we  call  upon  the  United  Nations  to 
propose  the  appropriate  financing  mechanisms  and 
structures to support economic and social development 
policies and to combat poverty in developing countries.
Official  development  assistance  is  necessary  and 
important to support growth. The Northern countries’ 
solidarity with those of the South must be effective. We 
must  support  one  another  complementarily,  because 
it  is  together  that  we  will  succeed  and  be  able  to  to 
act and react in real time to the major challenges that 
are  facing  us.  Our  will  and  determination  will  guide 
us  in  quickening  our  stride  to  meet  those  challenges. 
I  therefore  unhesitatingly  reiterate  my  call  for  the 
enhancement  of  the  North-South  dialogue  and  the 
strengthening of global partnerships. In order to truly 
support development, the terms of funding must not in 
any way penalize those countries and peoples that are 
already vulnerable.
Can  we  have  confidence  in  the  future?  Can  our 
young  people  have  confidence  in  the  future?  On  this 
solemn  occasion,  I  urge  my  peers  not  to  lose  sight  of 
the  commitment  that  we  made  70  years  ago,  which 
8/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
has been reflected in the solid decisions that we have 
taken  throughout  the  years  and  not  delay  in  taking 
action. The SDGs enable us to facilitate prevention and 
the  maintenance  of  peace,  security  and  stability.  The 
new Agenda outlines new strategic directions that will 
guide us in forging the destiny of our peoples.
Madagascar  maintains  its  hope  and  faith  in  the 
United Nations for the next 70 years. A good portion of 
the path has already been trodden, but the road remains 
long. We must not be concerned about counting steps. 
The  challenges  are  immense,  but  never,  since  time 
immemorial,  have  so  many  countries  and  leaders 
demonstrated their will and commitment to move ahead 
so  as  to  overcome  and  solve  the  problems  of  today’s 
world. We must demonstrate that we are moving closer 
to a millennium of solidarity that transcends borders. 
That  requires  the  commitment  and  responsibility  of 
each country and each leader.
This month we began laying down the foundations 
of  a  new  edifice.  Its  completion  depends  only  on  us. 
Rest  assured  that  Madagascar  will  contribute  to  that 
endeavour.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Madagascar for the statement he has 
just made.
Hery  Martial 
Rajaonarimampianina 
Mr. 
Rakotoarimanana,  President  of 
the  Republic 
of  Madagascar,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Peter M. Christian, President 
and Head of Government of the Federated States 
of Micronesia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President 
and  Head  of  Government  of  the  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia.
Mr.  Peter  M.  Christian,  President  and  Head  of 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Peter 
M. Christian, President and Head of Government of the 
Federated  States  of  Micronesia,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Christian:  From  this  rostrum,  many 
great  leaders  of  nations  have  spoken  with  great 
eloquence  and  conviction  on  matters  of  great  import 
to  their  own  nation  in  particular  and  also  to  other 
nations in general. And in this Hall, we speak with the 
confident hope that what we say here will not only be 
heard, but that it will give relevance to our efforts and 
make a positive difference.
Today, I stand before the Assembly as the President 
of  a  small  Pacific  island  country  to  reinforce  our 
commitment  to  save  the  difference  that  we  represent, 
while participating in the noble attempt to bring nations 
together and speak on subjects of mutual concern and 
benefit  to  all.  Some  who  saw  my  remarks  for  this 
morning  tell  me  that  they  are  generic  and  expound 
no particular issue of controversy that might generate 
murmurs  in  the  Hall.  They  may  be  right.  But  that  is 
only  because  most  of  them  do  not  live  by  the  sea,  at 
sea  level  and  surrounded  by  the  great  Pacific  Ocean, 
where we listen to the sound of the waves relentlessly 
pounding  on  our  islands,  getting  dangerously  closer 
with every successive wave.
I  will  speak  first  on  the  much-debated  issue  of 
climate  change  and  its  causes  and  effects  on  many 
small island States including my own, Micronesia, but I 
will not go into details, because that is where the Devil 
is said to be king. I speak as an islander who has walked 
the shores of many atoll islands in the Pacific. Where 
there once were sandy beaches and coconut trees, now 
there  are  none.  I  am  told  that  that  will  continue.  As 
islanders,  we  wonder  why  that  is  happening.  Parents 
today  show  their  children  where  their  island  used  to 
extend in relation to the reefs offshore.
While we wait in fear for the predicted and inevitable 
sea-level  rise,  other  effects  of  global  warming,  like 
stronger  ocean  currents  and  more  frequent  typhoons, 
continue to wash away shorelines and topple trees, not 
waiting for the sea to rise and drown the island. People 
who live on these islands hear that some of the causes 
of sea-level rise have been identified, that much debate 
has  gone  into  validating  these  causes,  and  that  there 
is  now  a  general  understanding  and  agreement  on  its 
causes. They have also heard that there is a way to slow 
down and eventually save what is left of their islands. 
That is good news to them and, with the simplicity of 
islanders, they think — we think — this will be done 
sooner rather than later. This is their hope. Our hope is 
in the hands of Member States. I want to believe that 
many of us are here today to give this hope a chance.
15-29658
9/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
I  am  encouraged  that  our  ongoing  discussions  on 
climate change, and the ones that will take place later, 
will  usher  in  a  more  serious  tone  and  be  conducted 
more  speedily,  and  that  the  matter  has  captured  the 
interest of Member States. We are thankful for that. It 
gives  us  hope,  as  we  look  forward  to  the  meeting  in 
Paris. We have set our hopes on Paris as the venue for 
the final stretch of dialogue on how we close the gap of 
disagreement over the level of emissions allowed by our 
friends, the industrialized States Members of the United 
Nations. We must become more cohesive in our actions 
to  reach  a  useful  agreement  that  would  help  mitigate 
the threat of sinking islands and prevent the potential 
genocide of oceanic peoples and their cultures.
The  next  topic  I  would  like  to  address  is  that  of 
hydrofluorocarbons  (HFCs).  What  do  the  Federated 
States of Micronesia, the Montreal Protocol and HFCs 
have in common? In 1995, the Congress of the Federated 
States  of  Micronesia  passed  a  bill  that  approved  the 
country’s accession to the Montreal Protocol. In 2009, 
the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia  made  the  first 
proposal  for  an  amendment  to  the  Montreal  Protocol 
to phase down HFCs, which are powerful greenhouse 
gases,  as  everyone  knows.  The  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia took the lead among developing countries 
to promote the phase-down as a complementary climate 
change action. Thanks to island countries, the solidarity 
of  our  African  nation  friends  and  the  endorsement  of 
the  European  Union,  over  100  countries  have  called 
for  these  products,  HFCs,  to  be  phased  down.  Now 
the  parties  to  the  Protocol  are  finally  converging 
towards  an  agreement  on  a  mandate  to  negotiate  an 
HFC phase-down. The Federated States of Micronesia 
will  continue  to  work  with  other  supporters  and  with 
all parties until an amendment to phase down HFCs is 
adopted. I ask the Assembly to join me in this effort.
I  note,  with  great  joy,  that  President  Obama  is 
putting  his  weight  behind  this  move.  This  is  like 
manna  from  heaven.  Just  last  week,  President  Obama 
and  President  Xi  agreed  on  “stepping  up  their  work 
to phase down super-polluting” HFCs. With President 
Obama’s help, we now see that China, India and Brazil 
have indicated their support for the HFC amendment. 
Nonetheless,  their  indication  of  support  alone  is  not 
enough. They must do something about that indication. 
May  President  Obama  be  blessed  many  times  for  his 
leadership  in  this  particular  area.  How  true  that  the 
journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step. 
The  benevolence  of  good  leaders  raises  the  hope  of 
islanders that people still care. This is important to the 
Pacific peoples. They take great comfort in the thought 
that  they  are  no  longer  alone  in  their  crusade  in  this 
area. I recall that Pope Francis did not forget to remind 
us of the golden rule — do unto others as you would 
they do unto you.
Our  second  strategy  on  climate  change  is  quite 
simple.  We  are  going  to  Paris,  and  we  are  going 
to  support  the  issues  that  are  raised  in  order  to  gain 
ground  on  the  topic  of  climate-change  mitigation.  In 
Micronesia, we have a challenge called the Micronesian 
Challenge.  Micronesia  is  a  sprinkling  of  islands  that 
span an ocean area that is larger than the continent of 
the United States and larger than the European Union. 
It is made up of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, 
the  Republic  of  Palau,  the  territory  of  Guam,  the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas and my own 
Federated  States  of  Micronesia.  These  entities  have 
established what is now the Micronesian Challenge. It 
is a bold undertaking by small island countries to save 
our planet. We are agreeing to set aside 30 per cent of 
near-shore marine areas and 20 per cent of terrestrial 
areas as our dedicated contribution to the efforts of the 
people of this Earth to save the planet. We invite those 
who care and can to join us in this effort to contribute 
to the well-being of our planet.
When in the General Assembly Hall, I cannot help 
but feel a greater sense of security and of empowerment. 
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  touch  on  the  subject 
of  peace  and  freedom  —  peace  as  an  aftermath  of 
hostilities, not just of armed conflict, but hostilities of 
silence, tolerance and apathy. When we speak of peace, 
you and I will always remember the absence of it. For 
the people of Micronesia, the first four decades of the 
past century will always be remembered as a period of 
armed conflict — a conflict in which Micronesians had 
no interest and no part. Those of us from Micronesia and 
our neighbouring Pacific islands who suffered similarly 
have  our  deep  subscription  to  peace  engraved  in  our 
hearts and inscribed in our governing constitutions. We 
believe that peace should be universal and embraced by 
all of us who have decided to be Members of the United 
Nations.
While  we  accept  that  universal  peace  may  be  a 
distant  goal,  it  must  be  sought  vigorously  and  with 
determined haste. When I speak of the precious issue 
of  peace,  I  am  often  reminded  of  a  statement  by  a 
man whose nation had just come out of war and which 
expressed his dream for lasting peace. President Wilson 
said of the League of Nations that
10/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
“a  general  association  of  nations  must  be 
formed  under  specific  covenants  for  the  purpose 
of  affording  mutual  guarantees  of  political 
independence  and  territorial  integrity  to  great 
and small states alike ... An evident principle runs 
through the whole program I have outlined. It is the 
principle of justice to all people and nationalities, 
and their right to live on equal terms of liberty and 
safety with one another, whether they be strong or 
weak”.
Today,  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary 
of  the  United  Nations.  Some  nations  celebrate  the 
anniversary of an end to war. While those of us who call 
the Pacific our home rejoice in the silence of guns, we 
are not happy that, elsewhere, innocent people continue 
to fear for their lives and lose precious property, and are 
forced to confront the ugly face of apathy. Today, many 
nations  have  risen  from  the  debris  of  war  to  become 
dominant  economic  Powers  in  the  world.  Many  have 
been generous and supportive to those who have been 
plundered.
While  many  postwar  territories  and  possessions 
have since attained a negotiated political freedom and 
independence, they still see the shadow of foreign flags 
fluttering over their lands and their affairs. Some are 
still labouring to improve their status as nations, while 
others still await the awakening of the United Nations in 
hopes that it will heed their plea for political autonomy 
and  the  honour  of  flying  a  flag  of  independence.  As 
for our friends who fought against each other in armed 
conflicts, we ask them to stand together with us today 
and let us resolve to remember war as a painful conflict 
of  the  past.  Some  things  are  hard  to  forget,  and  the 
pains of war may be one of them.
For  the  sake  of  a  peaceful  tomorrow,  however, 
let  us  forgive.  Together  let  us  promote  friendship, 
partnership, and cooperation as our collective strength 
for the future. We have enough common enemies today, 
enemies  that  have  no  respect  for  culture,  boundaries, 
religion  or  social  status.  They  are  climate  change, 
sea-level  rise,  poverty,  hunger  and  famine,  illiteracy, 
incurable  diseases,  domestic  violence,  genocide  and 
human  trafficking,  economic  imbalance  and  apathy. 
Those are our challenges today. We must bind together 
our  efforts  to  address  them.  I  ask  that  we  divert  the 
energy  of  our  anger  over  things  past  to  dealing  with 
these challenges in order to achieve a better tomorrow. 
Let  us  resolve  to  work  together,  more  effectively,  to 
overcome  these  issues,  which  have  been  produced  by 
man’s  own  doing.  Let  us  take  strength  and  wisdom 
from our past and apply it for the good of humankind. 
Let us forgive, for that is the strength we have as the 
United Nations. Let us create a spirit of unity to enable 
us to find the necessary strength for our united nations 
to work well together. Let us celebrate that unity today.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  and  Head  of  Government  of  the  Federated 
States of Micronesia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Peter  M.  Christian,  President  and  Head  of 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Filip Vujanović, President 
of Montenegro
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
Montenegro.
Mr. Filip Vujanović, President of Montenegro, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Filip 
Vujanović, President of Montenegro, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Vujanović  (spoke 
in  Montenegrin; 
English text provided by the delegation): This year we 
proudly  mark  a  noteworthy  anniversary  —  70  years 
since  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations,  and  seven 
decades dedicated to freedom and peace, fundamental 
human rights, equality between great and small nations 
and social progress. That dedication has unquestionably 
demonstrated  the  value  of  the  United  Nations,  and 
future  generations  must  share  in  that  same  mission, 
aimed at achieving a better humankind.
At the outset, I would like to stress that Montenegro 
is strongly committed to preserving all the values the 
United  Nations  was  founded  on.  Freedom  and  peace, 
fundamental  human  rights  and  social  progress  are 
values  that  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
should be committed to for the sake of their societies 
and  the  Organization.  We  therefore  believe  firmly  in 
working to ensure the successful implementation of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1).
15-29658
11/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  and 
through  its  cooperation  both  within  the  Council’s 
mechanisms  and  special  procedures  and  with  States 
and  other  stakeholders,  Montenegro  has  made  a 
strong  contribution  to  enhancing  the  efficiency  and 
effectiveness  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  its 
mechanism,  the  Universal  Periodic  Review,  while 
respecting  the  principles  of  universality,  impartiality, 
non-selectivity and constructive international dialogue 
and cooperation. In our actions at both the national and 
international  levels  we  have  paid  particular  attention 
to,  among  other  things,  the  issues  of  preventing 
discrimination  and  violence,  protecting  the  rights  of 
children,  persons  with  disabilities  and  lesbian,  gay, 
bisexual and transgender persons, empowering women 
and  girls  and  protecting  freedom  of  opinion  and 
expression. The fact that this year is the twentieth since 
the  adoption  of  the  Beijing  Declaration  and  Platform 
for  Action  should  push  us  to  intensify  our  efforts  to 
implement  those  important  documents  in  the  area  of 
enabling and empowering women and girls to exercise 
all their human rights.
Montenegro  strongly  supported  the  adoption  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
is  committed  to  its  comprehensive  implementation 
in  order  to  eradicate  poverty  and  achieve  sustainable 
development in all its dimensions. Financing is crucial 
to  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  that 
the  Agenda  sets  out.  For  that,  our  main  guidelines 
are  outlined  in  the  final  document  (resolution  69/313, 
annex)  of 
the  Addis  Ababa  Third  International 
Conference on Financing for Development. Mobilizing 
all  the  available  resources  and  including  the  Agenda 
in national development plans are prerequisites for its 
successful implementation at the global level.
firmly 
We  believe 
that  national  sustainable 
development  strategies,  backed  by  integrated  national 
financial frameworks, must be supported by an enabling 
international  economic  environment.  It  is  crucial  to 
ensure  that  all  national  stakeholders,  including  civil 
society  and  the  private  sector,  participate  in  their 
adoption  and  in  monitoring  their  implementation. 
Bearing  in  mind  that  implementing  the  development 
Agenda is an obligation we have to future generations, 
I am pleased to be able to point out that in addition to 
institutional capacity-building, Montenegro has begun 
the process of drafting a new national post-2015 strategy 
for  sustainable  development,  whereby  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  established  at  the  global  level 
will be adapted to our national context with a view to 
achieving sustainable development within Montenegro.
Action designed to deal with climate change should 
be  an  integral  part  of  all  development  policies  and 
programmes.  We  believe  the  recent  successful  high-
level  meetings  in  Addis  Ababa  and  New  York  will 
encourage countries to intensify their efforts to achieve 
a  universal  and  legally  binding  agreement  on  climate 
change in Paris at the end of the year.
We must work together to end conflicts and rebuild 
peace.  To  that  end,  it  is  vital  that  the  international 
community,  acting  in  accordance  with  the  norms  of 
international  law,  work  to  put  an  end  to  the  violence 
in Ukraine, Syria, Iraq, Libya and other areas in crisis. 
The  serious  human  rights  violations  and  intensifying 
violence  and  crimes  committed  by  terrorist  and 
extremist  groups,  such  as  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq 
and  the  Levant  and  Boko  Haram,  are  clear  evidence 
of the seriousness of the threat that terrorism poses to 
international peace and security. Global engagement is 
therefore the only way to guarantee protection against 
it.
We support global efforts to achieve disarmament 
and non-proliferation. We are pleased about the entry 
into force of the Arms Trade Treaty and we urge that 
its provisions be effectively implemented. We welcome 
the positive outcome of the negotiations on the Iranian 
nuclear programme and the ongoing dialogue between 
members of the Security Council and Iran with a view 
to  ensuring  that  it  meets  its  international  obligations 
and  that  a  comprehensive  and  durable  solution  to  the 
issue is achieved.
The current challenges and threats to global peace 
and security require a preventive approach to violations 
of international law. We support the report of the High-
level  Independent  Panel  on  Peace  Operations  on  the 
future  activities  of  peacekeeping  missions  (A/70/95), 
as well as the report of the Advisory Group of Experts 
on  the  review  of  the  peacebuilding  architecture  of 
the  United  Nations  (A/69/968).  We  believe  that  their 
recommendations  will  help  to  improve  the  existing 
architecture  and  its  effectiveness.  The  inclusion  of  a 
gender perspective in all areas of the peace and security 
agenda,  pursuant  to  Security  Council  resolution  1325 
(2000),  is  of  special  importance,  in  particular  in  the 
context  of  the  upcoming  review  of  the  resolution’s 
implementation 15 years after its adoption.
12/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
Montenegro 
is  firmly  committed 
to  actively 
contributing 
to  and  supporting  collective  efforts 
to  maintain  international  peace  and  security.  The 
deployment of Montenegrin soldiers and police officers 
in  international  missions  testifies  to  our  readiness  to 
fulfil  our  international  obligations  and  to  develop 
relations based on partnership.
Montenegro  remains  strongly  committed  to  the 
concept of the responsibility to protect, with particular 
emphasis  on  the  importance  of  preventing  mass 
atrocities at the national and regional levels, including 
through the early-warning mechanism and an early and 
balanced  response  in  cases  where  the  risk  of  crimes 
against humanity, war crimes and genocide exists. We 
will continue to demand accountability and punishment 
for all perpetrators.
In  conflict  resolution, 
the  use  of  preventive 
diplomacy, in particular mediation, is necessary. In this 
regard, strengthening the capacity of the United Nations 
so that it will be able to respond to the growing needs 
in this field is imperative. Given that our region is one 
of fragile stability, we have learnt from experience that 
dialogue and cooperation are the best ways of defusing 
tensions,  overcoming  differences  and  achieving 
durable  solutions.  Therefore,  Montenegro  will,  in 
2016,  organize  a  meeting  under  the  Mediation  in  the 
Mediterranean initiative, as a sign of our commitment 
to  the  further  promotion  of  mediation  as  an  effective 
means for the prevention and management of conflicts 
and peacebuilding.
Ensuring  the  protection  of  civilians  in  conflict 
areas  and  meeting  their  basic  humanitarian  needs 
are  essential.  We  are  committed  to  supporting  the 
strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  humanitarian 
assistance architecture, which plays a decisive role in 
coordinating  international  humanitarian  assistance. 
To  that  end,  the  organization  of  the  upcoming  World 
Humanitarian  Summit,  to  be  held  in  May  2016,  is 
important, as it will be an opportunity to consider the 
challenges that the humanitarian sector is facing today.
In addressing the current migrant crisis, we must be 
guided by the shared United Nations values of humanity 
and solidarity, and we must take into account migrants’ 
need for assistance. This implies eliminating the causes 
of migration and considering the real abilities of each 
State to receive migrants and offer related assistance. 
As a country where refugees recently accounted for one 
fifth  of  the  population,  Montenegro  understands  the 
The 
interrelated  challenges 
need for solidarity with people in great trouble and the 
heaviness of the burden of a receiving country.
the  world 
faces 
illustrate the need to reform the Organization in order to 
properly position it in the system of global governance. 
Guided  by  this,  Montenegro  will  continue  to  support 
efforts  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations  and  improve 
the  efficiency, 
transparency,  accountability  and 
representativeness of the Organization and its agencies. 
We also confirm our commitment to build an effective 
multilateral system in which the United Nations plays 
a central role. We support the agenda of a coordinated 
approach — delivering as one — and are undertaking 
activities  aimed  at  adopting  the  second  integrated 
programme  of  cooperation  between 
the  United 
Nations system in Montenegro and the Government of 
Montenegro for the period 2017-2021.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  that  Montenegro 
has  been  fully  committed  to  the  implementation  of 
United Nations values and programmes. As a country 
in the last stage of the NATO integration process and 
in  the  successful  negotiation  process  for  European 
Union  membership,  Montenegro  has  been  a  good 
neighbour  and  reliable  partner  in  the  West  Balkan 
region,  where  the  values  of  cooperation  and  stability 
have been increasingly affirmed. We are confident that 
in these ways, inter alia, we are also contributing to the 
achievement of United Nations goals.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of Montenegro for the statement he has just 
made.
Mr. Filip Vujanović, President of Montenegro, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Manuel Domingos Vicente, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Angola
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Vice-President of the Republic 
of Angola.
Mr.  Manuel  Domingos  Vicente,  Vice-President 
of  the  Republic  of  Angola,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
15-29658
13/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Manuel  Domingos 
Vicente, Vice-President of the Republic of Angola, and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Vicente  (Angola)  (spoke 
in  Portuguese; 
English text provided by the delegation): At the outset, 
on behalf of the President of Angola, Mr. José Eduardo 
dos Santos, I would like to congratulate His Excellency 
Mr. Mogens Lykketoft on his election to the presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly.  I  also  congratulate  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  the  outgoing  President, 
on  the  capable  manner  in  which  he  led  the  work  of 
the  Assembly  at  the  sixty-ninth  session.  In  addition, 
I  commend  the  Secretary-General  for  his  continued 
commitment to finding solutions to the complex issues 
that trouble the international community.
The  objective  of  the  San  Francisco  Conference 
was  to  build  a  world  based  on  international  law  and 
to  seek  peaceful  solutions  to  international  disputes. 
Over the course of 70 years, we have seen progress and 
setbacks.  Remarkable  progress  has  been  made  in  the 
area of decolonization, which is reflected in the number 
of  countries  that  now  constitute  the  United  Nations 
family. However, there has been no success with regard 
to collective security, an issue that led to the creation 
of the United Nations and that remains at the heart of 
its concerns. We must reflect together on the role and 
future of the United Nations. We need an Organization 
capable of promoting peace and international security, 
of acting quickly and effectively in conflict situations, 
and of addressing current and emerging challenges.
By  adopting  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1), States Members of the 
United  Nations  reaffirmed  as  absolute  priorities  the 
eradication  of  poverty  and  hunger,  the  promotion  of 
social and economic development, the protection of the 
rights of all, gender equality, women’s empowerment, 
the environment, access to quality services and special 
attention to vulnerable groups.
The  2030  Agenda  reasserts 
the  principle  of 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development that it is possible to promote global and 
sustainable  development  and  establishes  universal 
Goals  that  highlight  the  need  for  cooperation  among 
peoples  and  a  common  path  for  humankind.  It  calls 
for  a  global  partnership  and  for  commitments  from 
all  parties  to  mitigating  the  adverse  consequences 
of  climate  change,  eradicating  poverty  and  extreme 
poverty,  and  creating  opportunities  for  all.  I  reiterate 
Angola’s  commitment  to  taking  appropriate  measures 
to strengthen theOrganization’s development agenda.
In  the  near  future,  the  United  Nations  will  also 
be  involved  in  the  review  of  three  very  important 
processes: women and peace and security, peacekeeping 
operations and the peacebuilding architecture.
As  I  stated  before,  the  ideal  that  guided  the 
creation of the United Nations 70 years ago — to save 
succeeding generations from the scourge of war — has 
not yet been achieved. People around the world expect 
the leaders of the 193 nations represented here to join 
in  a  collective  effort  to  find  appropriate  solutions  to 
the serious and multiple challenges that the people of 
the world face. As we commemorate this anniversary, 
we  bear  in  mind  the  role  and  responsibilities  of  the 
United  Nations  as  the  pre-eminent  forum  for  finding 
solutions to international problems, preserving peace, 
strengthening  collective  security  and  renouncing  the 
use  of  force  in  international  relations,  respecting  the 
sovereignty of States, defending and promoting human 
rights and reaffirming the rule of law as a fundamental 
principle of the international system.
This  occasion  should  provide  an  additional 
incentive  to  accelerate  reforms  aimed  at  revitalizing 
the  United  Nations  system,  in  particular  the  Security 
Council, by extending the number of its permanent and 
non-permanent  members,  thereby  making  this  body 
more  representative  and  better  equipped  to  address 
the challenges and opportunities that the world faces. 
Angola reaffirms the right of the African continent to 
be  represented  among  the  permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council.
The  forced  displacement  of  thousands  of  human 
beings  presents  a  heartbreaking  picture  of  human 
degradation  that  offends  human  dignity.  It  requires 
an  immediate  and  comprehensive  response  by  the 
international community.
In  the  coming  month  of  November,  Angola  will 
celebrate  the  fortieth  anniversary  of  its  national 
independence  in  an  environment  of  peace,  tolerance 
and reconciliation — a direct result of the will of the 
Angolan  people  to  work  together  to  achieve  higher 
levels of economic growth and greater social inclusion, 
progress and well-being for all in a more democratic, 
prosperous and modern country.
Despite 
the  adverse  global  environment, 
the 
Government of Angola remains committed to sustained 
growth.  To  that  end,  it  is  implementing  its  national 
14/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
development  plan,  which  aims  to  rehabilitate  and 
modernize economic and social infrastructure, promote 
public and private investment, and improve vocational 
and skills training and human resources management.
The  rise  in  terrorist  activities  perpetrated  by 
extremist groups in Africa and elsewhere in the world 
is  a  serious  security  problem  and  one  that  calls  for  a 
global  coalition  to  combat  this  scourge.  The  creation 
of  the  Multinational  Joint  Task  Force,  involving  the 
countries  of  the  Lake  Chad  Basin  and  Benin,  is  an 
example of the sort of collective response that deserves 
the support of the international community in order to 
purge  the  African  continent  of  the  terrorism  that  has 
caused such enormous suffering to its people.
The  situation  in  the  Central  African  Republic 
remains a challenge from the point of view of political 
and  socioeconomic  stability  and  domestic  security. 
Angola  supports 
transitional 
Government  to  restore  public  order  and  restructure 
State  institutions  and  encourages  all  the  parties  to 
respect the commitments made in the Bangui Forum as 
a  fundamental  prerequisite  for  attaining  an  inclusive, 
peaceful and transparent electoral process.
the  efforts  of 
the 
We  welcome 
the  recent  compromise  reached 
between  the  Government  of  South  Sudan  and  the 
armed opposition, mediated by the Intergovernmental 
Authority  on  Development  and  other  international 
partners,  to  resolve  the  crisis  plaguing  the  country. 
We encourage the parties to the Agreement to honour 
their commitments and the international community to 
maintain its support for the peace process.
In Guinea-Bissau, with the institutional crisis now 
overcome, recent political developments augur well for 
economic growth and political and social stabilization. 
We appeal to all Guinean political and social actors to 
display the utmost sense of responsibility, and we urge 
the  international  community  to  continue  to  fulfil  the 
promises made at the donors’ conference in Brussels.
The  question  of  Western  Sahara  continues  to 
concern us, in view of the need for the Saharan people 
to  exercise  their  right  to  self-determination.  We  call 
on  the  parties  to  continue  negotiations  and  to  find  a 
mutually  acceptable  solution  within  the  framework 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  relevant 
Security Council resolutions.
We  are  concerned  about  the  business-as-usual 
mindset that prevails in the process of finding a solution 
to  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict.  We  advocate  a 
resumption of negotiations leading to a lasting solution, 
based  on  two  States  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security.
The conflicts in Libya, Syria and Iraq require fast 
responses, given the serious humanitarian consequences 
resulting from them. The causes of these conflicts lie in 
the serious violations of the basic rights of the people 
of  these  countries  and  in  external  interference,  with 
attempted coups or changes of regime and the artificial 
imposition  of  democracy  from  outside  having  tragic 
and disastrous consequences.
Angola warmly welcomes the agreement concluded 
by  the  six  Powers  and  the  European  Union  with 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  on  the  Iranian  nuclear 
programme. That outcome is evidence that any dispute, 
however  difficult  and  complex,  may  have  a  political 
solution  and  is  particularly  notable  in  the  case  of  a 
region  where  diplomacy  has,  in  recent  decades,  been 
systematically passed over.
Angola  is  closely  following  the  normalization  of 
the  diplomatic  relations  between  the  United  States  of 
America and Cuba, which is a welcome development. 
However,  Angola  emphasizes  the  need  to  put  an  end 
to  the  economic,  financial  and  commercial  embargo 
against  Cuba,  which  limits  the  right  of  the  Cuban 
people to development and is contrary to the principles 
and rules of international law.
The  Republic  of  Angola  currently  holds  the 
presidency of the International Conference on the Great 
Lakes Region and has been engaged in seeking solutions 
to  the  problems  affecting  the  region,  both  bilaterally 
and  multilaterally,  as  well  as  in  the  Security  Council 
and the African Union Peace and Security Council. In 
this context, we reiterate our determination to continue 
to  support  and  promote  dialogue,  peace,  security  and 
stability  in  Central  Africa  and  throughout  the  Great 
Lakes region.
that 
is  becoming 
Aware  of  its  responsibilities  in  an  international 
increasingly  fluid  and 
context 
complex, and aware of the security challenges that the 
States bordering the Gulf of Guinea face, the Angolan 
Government, with the support of the United States of 
America and Italy, will host an international conference 
on maritime and energy security in the coming days in 
Luanda in order to contribute to a response to threats of 
terrorism and piracy in the Gulf of Guinea.
Climate  change  is  one  of  the  greatest  challenges 
facing humankind. For this reason, adopting a protocol 
15-29658
15/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
to govern the global action to protect the climate system 
at  the  twenty-first  session  of  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change is of the highest importance. This 
agreement should include a commitment to limiting the 
increase in average global temperatures to 1.5°C by the 
end of the century. Likewise, the new agreement must 
include  models  of  sharing  enabling  tools  to  protect 
the  right  to  development  and  strengthen  resilience  in 
developing countries.
Finally, I wish to reaffirm the importance that my 
country places on the role of multilateralism in solving 
global problems by finding realistic and bold solutions 
through  concertation,  in  accordance  with  a  logic  of 
shared  responsibilities  and  benefits  and  in  fulfilment 
of the legitimate interests of all, We call on all Member 
States  to  renew  their  confidence  in  the  ability  of  the 
United  Nations  to  strengthen  international  dialogue 
as  a  key  element  of  the  culture  of  peace,  respect  for 
differences  between  peoples  and  conflict  prevention, 
which  are  the  very  foundations  of  the  progress  and 
development to which all the peoples of the world are 
entitled.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank 
the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Angola  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Manuel  Domingos  Vicente,  Vice-President 
of  the  Republic  of  Angola,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. José Maria Pereira Neves, 
Prime Minister and Minister of Reform of the 
Republic of Cabo Verde
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  of  Reform  of  the  Republic  of 
Cabo Verde.
Mr. José Maria Pereira Neves, Prime Minister and 
Minister of Reform of the Republic of Cabo Verde, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  José 
Maria  Pereira  Neves,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of 
Reform  of  the  Republic  of  Cabo  Verde,  and  inviting 
him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Pereira  Neves  (Cabo  Verde)  (spoke 
in 
Portuguese;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): 
I would ask the indulgence of the Assembly that I may 
greet, on behalf of all Cabo Verdeans, all delegations to 
this seventieth session of the General Assembly and add 
our voice to all statements made here that call for the 
building of a better world. This session provides us with 
the opportunity, as we celebrate the anniversary of the 
United Nations with pride and joy, to engage in a critical 
and concrete reflection on the future of humankind and 
the  challenges  faced  by  the  Organization.  The  theme 
chosen  for  this  session  could  not  be  more  timely  and 
pressing: “The United Nations at 70: the road ahead for 
peace, security and human rights”.
Seven  decades  after  the  signing  of  the  San 
Francisco  Charter,  it  is  incumbent  on  us  to  examine 
the  road  travelled  so  far  as  we  identify  new  actions 
that  will  allow  our  Organization  to  grow  in  strength, 
unity  and  capacity  in  order  to  overcome  challenges 
to  international  peace  and  security  and  make  more 
concrete  contributions  to  a  bringing  about  a  more 
just,  equitable,  sustainable  and  solidary  world.  Cabo 
Verde,  which  is  celebrating  the  fortieth  anniversary 
of  its  national  independence  this  year,  is  among  the 
countries  that  believe  in  the  fundamental  principles 
and goals of the United Nations and defend its purposes 
and principles, which continue to be fundamental and 
current for the Organization’s actions and serve as vital 
tools with which to build a common future.
We underline the crucial importance of reforming 
the United Nations in preparation for the road ahead. We 
urge all Member States to negotiate constructively with 
a view to agreeing on the revitalization of the powers of 
the General Assembly and reaching an understanding 
on the enlargement of the Security Council, which in 
our view should reflect the changes that have occurred 
in  the  world,  with  a  more  equitable  and  appropriate 
representation.
It was with great satisfaction that we participated 
in  the  Sustainable  Development  Summit  2015,  which 
began this past 25 September. We take this opportunity 
to  again  declare  Cabo  Verde’s  adherence  to  the 
principles contained in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1) and our full agreement 
with respect to the Sustainable Development Goals. The 
poorest and most vulnerable nations legitimately aspire 
to development, and we must all commit to achieving 
the goals that have been established for 2030.
16/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
their  particular  vulnerability 
Specifically  with  respect  to  the  small  island 
developing States, of which Cabo Verde is an example, 
some  essential  elements  will  have  to  be  considered, 
namely,  the  threat  to  their  survival  posed  by  climate 
change, 
to  natural 
disasters, the risk of losing their biodiversity, the reduced 
size  of  their  markets,  the  high  cost  of  transportation 
and  energy  infrastructure,  and  their  difficulties  in 
accessing financing. For all these reasons, they deserve 
special attention from the United Nations system in the 
context of the Sustainable Development Goals.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is 
a source of hope for the billions of human beings who 
aspire  to  a  more  just,  equitable  and  inclusive  world. 
The will to place people at the centre of development 
means that we must find appropriate instruments and 
consistent  practices  in  a  sustainable  environmental 
framework.
In the light of the unequivocal correlation between 
sustainable  development  and  climate  change,  Cabo 
Verde,  like  other  small  and  vulnerable  countries, 
hopes  that  the  declarations  and  expressions  of  intent 
will  translate  into  tangible  commitments  that  lead  to 
the  reduction  of  greenhouse-gas  emissions  but  also 
provide a balanced approach to the issues of adaptation 
and  mitigation.  Meanwhile,  the  new  agreement  that 
is expected to be signed in Paris must not fail to give 
due  weight  to  the  issues  of  loss  and  compensation, 
development, 
transfer  and  capacity-
building, and indicate clearly some reliable sources of 
financial support for the most vulnerable nations. We 
are firmly committed to assuming our responsibilities 
and making our contributions in that respect. In Cabo 
Verde, we have already established the goal of 100 per 
cent renewable energy and are on our way to achieving 
it,  with  international  cooperation  and  United  Nations 
monitoring. At this time, we have approximately 30 per 
cent renewable energy on the grid and believe that we 
will exceed 50 per cent by 2020.
technology 
Much to our consternation, serious cases of human 
rights violations are occurring in various parts of the 
world.  It  is  unfortunate  that,  although  almost  seventy 
years have elapsed since the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights saw the light of day, the promises made 
when that basic text was adopted have yet to be fulfilled. 
Cabo Verde is proud to serve as a benchmark in terms 
of freedoms, democracy, the rule of law, respect for and 
defence of human rights, and the promotion of human 
dignity.
Peace and security, together with political stability, 
are  essential  foundations  for  the  development  and  the 
well-being  of  our  peoples.  We  are  therefore  growing 
increasingly  concerned  about  the  spread  of  ongoing 
conflicts  and  tensions  in  Africa  and  the  Middle 
East,  which  have  caused  thousands  of  people  to  flee, 
driven  by  total  desperation.  In  seeking  better  living 
conditions,  some  find  death  instead.  Those  ongoing 
events  have  exposed  the  profound  economic,  social, 
political,  environmental  and  humanitarian  causes  and 
ramifications of the crisis. The global refugee problem 
is  a  great  challenge  for  humankind  and  requires  the 
engagement  of  all.  The  scourge  and  stigma  of  war 
not only affect the well-being of peoples in their own 
countries, but also create broader instability, disrupting 
the  development  of  entire  regions.  Cabo  Verde  joins 
those who call for the rapid settlement of the conflicts, 
based on a combination of collective efforts and respect 
for  international  law  and,  in  particular,  the  1951 
Convention  relating  to  the  Status  of  Refugees  and  its 
1967 Protocol.
in 
The  situation 
the  Middle  East  continues 
to  deteriorate,  with  no  end  in  sight  to  the  various 
conflicts that are sweeping the region. The violations 
of  human  rights  by  the  actors  in  the  Syrian  conflict, 
as  well  as  the  atrocities  that  are  being  perpetrated  in 
the  territories  under  the  control  of  terrorist  factions 
and  religious  fundamentalists,  are  a  major  cause  for 
concern. The United Nations must redouble its efforts 
to reach negotiated solutions to that and other conflicts 
that offend our common sense of humanity. Resolving 
the  problem  of  terrorism  requires  the  international 
community to step up its actions in combating terrorism 
and  extremism  in  all  their  forms  and  manifestations. 
We firmly condemn all expressions of terrorism and, in 
particular, the barbaric actions of extremist groups in 
the Middle East, Asia and Africa.
Because  Cabo  Verde  is  an  archipelago  nation, 
the  sea  plays  a  crucial  role  in  the  history,  identity 
and  subsistence  of  the  people,  providing  vital  natural 
resources and connecting the ten islands that form the 
archipelago. As a small island developing State, Cabo 
Verde  relies  on  its  partnership  with  the  international 
community  in  confronting  such  maritime  security 
challenges  as  those  posed  by  trafficking  and  related 
crimes and in preserving and managing our seas.
I would like to draw the Assembly’s attention to an 
exemplary action of regional cooperation in September 
2014,  when  seven  West  African  States,  including 
15-29658
17/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
Cabo  Verde,  notified  the  Secretary-General  in  a  joint 
communication  that  we  wished  to  extend  the  outer 
limits  of  the  continental  shelf  beyond  the  distance  of 
200 nautical miles, pursuant to article 76 of the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Last August, 
we had the opportunity to make a technical presentation 
to  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental 
Shelf and expect to receive a favourable response soon.
Cabo  Verde  welcomes  the  fact  that  a  working 
group  is  studying  issues  relating  to  the  conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity 
beyond  areas  of  national  jurisdiction  with  a  view  to 
the  development  of  a  legally  binding  international 
convention (resolution 66/288, para. 162).
The  world  has  great  and  renewed  expectations 
for  the  Organization’s  role  not  only  in  maintaining 
international peace and security, but also in promoting 
development  and  creating  a  more  prosperous  and 
unified  international  society  by  reducing  injustice 
and inequities, eradicating poverty, promoting human 
rights and combating the effects of climate change. We 
do indeed believe that the United Nations is essential. 
A more sustainable world living in peace and security 
is possible.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister and Minister of Reform of the Republic 
of Cabo Verde for the statement he has just made.
Mr. José Maria Pereira Neves, Prime Minister and 
Minister of Reform of the Republic of Cabo Verde, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Pakalitha Bethuel Mosisili, Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Lesotho
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Lesotho.
Mr.  Pakalitha  Bethuel  Mosisili,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr. Pakalitha Bethuel Mosisili, Prime Minister of the 
Kingdom of Lesotho, and inviting him to address the 
Assembly.
Mr.  Mosisili  (Lesotho):  At  the  outset,  let  me 
the  President  on  his  well-deserved 
congratulate 
election to preside over the deliberations of the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session.  His  impeccable 
credentials  and  experience  ensure  that  we  will  have 
success in our deliberations. I also wish to assure him 
of my delegation’s full support and cooperation during 
his tenure of office.
While  turning  70  is  an  auspicious  event  in  the 
life  of  an  individual,  it  has  added  significance  and 
importance for an Organization that has presided over 
many  of  humankind’s  trials,  failures  and  successes. 
We  recall  with  pride  that  many  countries  in  Africa 
joyfully attained their independence through the united 
efforts  of  the  Organization.  That  is  why  we  make  an 
impassioned plea for the United Nations to now address 
the unfinished business in North Africa and the Middle 
East.
Allow me to take this opportunity to commend the 
previous  President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa, 
for  his  outstanding  leadership  during  the  Assembly’s 
sixty-ninth  session.  My  delegation  truly  appreciates 
his  tireless  devotion  to  the  onerous  responsibilities 
entrusted  to  him  during  the  past  year.  I  also  thank 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  the  lucid  report 
submitted  at  this  session  (A/70/1),  which  provides 
valuable  insights  into  the  state  of  our  Organization 
and  highlights  a  road  map  that  will  steer  us  into  the 
future. We further recognize and appreciate the tedious 
work that our Secretary-General performs throughout 
the  year,  dousing  flames  of  discord  wherever  they 
occur,  and  applaud  him  for  sharing  the  joy  of  our 
Organization’s successes.
The United Nations was founded on the conviction 
that the nations of the world can and should cooperate 
to resolve conflicts peacefully and to change people’s 
lives for the better. It established conditions for justice, 
respect  for  international  law  and  the  promotion  of 
socioeconomic development in the world. As the United 
Nations turns 70, our forebears’ abiding conviction must 
be  steadfastly  reaffirmed  and  their  sense  of  purpose 
reasserted.  In  that  context,  we  hail  the  theme  chosen 
for the seventieth session, “The United Nations at 70: 
the road ahead for peace, security and human rights”, 
as most appropriate.
As 
the  world’s  only 
truly  universal  global 
Organization,  the  United  Nations  has,  over  the  years, 
become  the  most  important  and  relevant  forum  for 
addressing  issues  that  transcend  national  boundaries. 
For  the  past  70  years,  the  Organization  has  worked 
tirelessly to buttress the foundations of global security 
18/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
and the safety and well-being of the world’s citizenry. 
As  a  result  of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
many  countries  corrupt  dictatorships  have  given  way 
to  new  democracies,  and  millions  around  the  world 
today  breathe  the  fresh  air  of  freedom.  Other  notable 
moments  of  distinction  in  the  track  record  of  the 
Organization include its successful conflict-resolution 
and  peacekeeping  initiatives,  helping  over  17  million 
refugees  since  1949  and  ensuring  that  Governments 
meet their responsibilities to the fugitives in accordance 
with  United  Nations  conventions.  That  notable 
achievement  notwithstanding,  we 
firmly  believe 
that  the  world  should  not  continue  to  churn  out  more 
refugees. An environment must be created to ensure a 
culture of religious and political tolerance so as to stop 
the flow of refugees.
Another  milestone  in  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations  is  the  adoption  of  an  ambitious  sustainable 
development  agenda  for  the  post-2015  period  that 
epitomizes  the  Organization’s  visionary  endeavour  to 
eradicate  poverty,  address  climate  change  and  ensure 
that  prosperity  is  equitably  shared.  After  frank  and 
constructive  negotiations,  a  few  days  ago  we  adopted 
the  consensus  outcome  document  (resolution  70/1).  It 
might not be perfect, but it represents the best hope for 
future prosperity and stability in the world.
Looking at the 17 Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs), we draw courage and confidence from the fact 
that  the  majority  resonate  so  well  with  the  objectives 
of  the  new  Coalition  Government  that  I  lead.  The 
Coalition  Government  leadership  has  made  a  very 
ambitious commitment to ensure that Lesotho emerges 
from the group of least developed countries by 2025. 
The practical road map under Goal 1 complements 
programmes  already  in  place  in  Lesotho.  We  are 
humbled  by  the  faith  in  our  country  shown  by  the 
African Union in nominating His Majesty King Letsie 
III as the Nutrition Champion, a move that will intensify 
efforts already under way in my country in the area of 
nutrition.  On  the  important  issue  of  energy,  Lesotho 
recently  launched  an  innovative  energy  policy  that 
will ensure a substantial increase in renewable energy 
production,  leading  to  an  increase  in  the  provision 
of affordable energy to 50 per cent by the end of this 
Parliament’s  term.  Those  are  just  a  few  examples  of 
the development programmes Lesotho is committed to 
implementing in the next 10 years that are in line with 
the SDGs just adopted.
Of  greater  significance  is  the  reform  process  that 
we have emphasized in the Coalition Agreement signed 
after the February 2015 elections. Lesotho has passed 
through  many  political  challenges  since  its  return 
to  democratic  rule  in  1993,  which  placed  us  on  the 
agenda of the South African Development Community 
(SADC) for far too long. Most of those challenges have 
tested the resilience and relevance of our Constitution 
to  the  limit.  We  are  now  in  agreement,  together  with 
our  SADC  partners,  that  constitutional  reform  needs 
to be urgently addressed as a first step on the road to 
political stability. The Commonwealth has also thrown 
its weight behind the need for such reforms. We appeal 
to this world body to remain seized of that process and 
offer  the  necessary  guidance  wherever  and  whenever 
the need arises so that Lesotho’s dignity can be restored 
and peace and stability can reign.
Despite  the  laudable  achievements  made  by  the 
United Nations in shaping the form and content of global 
dialogue and negotiations, the world is still an unequal 
place, with large areas beset by intolerable poverty and 
hunger.  Thousands  still  die  from  malnutrition,  while 
many people still live below the poverty line. Small arms 
and light weapons continue to be illegally traded. Those 
weapons are often used in violent terrorist attacks. The 
lack of political will to rid the world of nuclear weapons 
and other weapons of mass destruction is obvious to all. 
The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is not yet 
universal, while the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons regime is at a crossroads, with some 
nuclear-capable States refusing to sign on.
With the ongoing violence in Syria, Iraq, Yemen and 
some parts of Africa, from the Sahel to the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  capacity  of  the  United 
Nations to find lasting solutions to these challenges is 
tested to the limit. Sadly, the human origin of many of 
these problems cannot be doubted. 
Among the most pressing issues for the international 
community today is the problem of refugees and mass 
migration. As a result of war and the carnage that has 
exposed  the  depths  of  man’s  cruelty  to  man,  millions 
of people in the Middle East and elsewhere are fleeing 
across  international  borders  on  a  scale  reminiscent 
of  the  Second  World  War.  The  numbers  crossing  the 
Mediterranean  and  the  Aegean  Sea  to  reach  Europe, 
despite the attendant risks, are staggering. The refugee 
problem Europe is facing today will test the limits of 
the continent’s resolve and generosity.
15-29658
19/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
Parallel to the migration crisis is the phenomenon 
of  terrorism.  Terrorism  has  increased  worldwide,  and 
it has become more brazen and lethal than ever before. 
Terrorist  networks  are  expanding  across  Africa,  the 
Middle  East  and  Asia.  Even  as  we  remain  vigilant 
against the threat of terrorism, we must move beyond 
a  mindset  that  this  menace  can  be  defeated  by  force 
of  arms  alone.  We  may  strike  blows  against  terrorist 
networks,  but  if  we  ignore  the  fact  that  political 
instability and religious and other forms of intolerance 
fuel extremism, our efforts to root out that menace will 
be futile.
Climate  change  is  a  major  challenge  facing  the 
world  today,  and  unless  it  is  addressed  effectively 
it  will  continue  to  rewrite  the  global  equation  for 
development, peace and prosperity. We should not let 
the  window  of  opportunity  represented  by  the  Paris 
Climate Change Conference close without collectively 
committing 
that  can 
significantly  contribute  to  reducing  emissions.  The 
Paris  negotiations  should  be  guided  by  a  spirit  of 
frankness,  mutual  understanding  and  the  willingness 
to compromise.
to  action-oriented  solutions 
is 
in  our 
The  Doha  Development  Agenda  is  important 
to  developing  countries  such  as  mine  and  deserves 
emphasis  at  every  available  opportunity.  We  strongly 
believe that a well-functioning, rules-based multilateral 
trading  system 
interest.  The  bilateral 
arrangements that we are negotiating should follow the 
preferences  and  flexibilities  accorded  to  World  Trade 
Organization  member  States  within  the  multilateral 
trading system. We therefore make a strong call for the 
Doha  Development  Agenda  to  be  concluded  quickly, 
according to its mandate and for it to fully deliver its 
development objectives.
Equally  important  is  the  need  to  acknowledge 
that  we  will  never  achieve  real  development  if  some 
sectors  of  society  continue  to  be  marginalized.  The 
role  of  children  and  women  and  other  disadvantaged 
groups  in  our  communities  in  advancing  the  global 
development  agenda  must  be  further  enhanced.  As 
this  year  we  celebrate  the  twentieth  anniversary  of 
the  World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth,  through 
which the United Nations strengthened its commitment 
to improving the lives of young people, let us resolve 
to  adequately  address  the  development  needs  and 
aspirations of young people with more vigour.
Mr.  Abdrakhmanov  (Kazakhstan),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
The  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations 
offers  a  unique  opportunity  to  appeal  to  the  Security 
Council not to use the International Criminal Court to 
pursue the interests of its powerful members. We must 
acknowledge that in its present form and configuration, 
the  Council  will  have  an  uphill  battle  to  take  our 
concerns on board. The call for the Council to be more 
transparent,  inclusive  and  democratic  needs  to  be 
echoed with even more vigour and clarity. A reformed 
Security  Council  that  is  in  line  with  twenty-first-
century  geopolitical  realities  will  be  reconstructed  in 
accordance  with  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  Sirte 
Declaration. A Security Council that has the voice of 
Africa and other marginalized regions in the permanent 
category  will  increasingly  acquire  legitimacy  and 
unconditional acceptance of its decisions.
We must continue to pursue a joint and consensual 
approach  in  tackling  our  challenges,  taking  decisions 
collectively  and  sharing  responsibilities.  The  General 
Assembly,  in  whose  name  the  United  Nations  was 
created,  is  most  suited  to  fulfil  that  task.  It  has 
continued  to  serve  as  the  principal  policy-making, 
deliberative and most representative organ of the United 
Nations. It is the only platform on which all countries, 
big and small, can engage in face-to-face negotiations 
as  sovereign  equals  to  seek  solutions  to  the  problems 
facing  humankind.  The  process  of  revitalizing  the 
General  Assembly  must  be  hastened.  The  resolutions 
of this principal organ of the United Nations should no 
longer be regarded as mere recommendations that can 
be casually ignored. The need for the manifestation of 
a  universal  commitment  to  the  principles  upon  which 
the United Nations is based cannot be overemphasized.
However, the United Nations is much more than a 
peacekeeper  and  a  forum  for  conflict  resolution.  The 
United Nations and its family of agencies are engaged in 
a vast array of activities that seek to address challenges 
hindering  progress  in  the  improvement  of  people’s 
lives  around  the  world.  As  indicated  earlier,  today’s 
challenges  include,  among  others,  climate  change, 
food  shortages,  HIV/AIDS,  financial  crises,  extreme 
poverty,  population  growth,  urbanization,  conflicts, 
terrorism  and  mass  migration.  The  common  purpose 
and  most  complex  task  within  the  United  Nations 
family is finding practical and lasting solutions to all 
these problems.
For  our  part,  Lesotho  has  initiated  an  innovative, 
indigenous consultative process that seeks to galvanize 
the  collective  wisdom  and  energy  of  leadership  at  all 
20/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
levels of society, from His Majesty all the way down to 
local leaders, with the sole purpose of intensifying the 
fight against HIV/AIDS. That consultative process will 
ensure the leadership’s ownership and accountability in 
all our health-service delivery processes. We see great 
wisdom  in  redefining  the  rollout  of  primary  health 
care,  utilizing  existing  community-based  leadership 
structures so as to realize the goal of health for all by 
2030.  That  comprehensive  rollout  agenda  has  all  the 
ingredients so well articulated in Goal 3 of the SDGs. 
His  Majesty  is  expected  to  launch  the  initiative  this 
month.
As we continue to ponder the most pressing issues 
and  challenges  facing  the  international  community 
today,  we  should  not  forget  the  plight  of  the  Saharan 
and  Palestinian  peoples.  Both  the  General  Assembly 
and the Security Council have recognized the Saharan 
people’s  inalienable  right  to  self-determination  and 
independence.  We  support  the  call  for  a  resumption 
of  direct  negotiations  between  the  Saharan  Arab 
Democratic  Republic  and  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco 
on  an  equal  footing  and  without  any  preconditions. 
Lesotho also continues to fully support the Palestinian 
people  in  their  decades-long  struggle  against  Israeli 
occupation  and  oppression.  Peace  between  Israel  and 
Palestine is an essential cornerstone of the architecture 
of  a  comprehensive  Middle  East  peace,  a  peace  that 
can unlock the creative genius and entrepreneurship of 
the region. By the same token, we applaud the current 
initiatives  aimed  at  normalizing  relations  between 
Cuba and the United States of America and urge that 
the  unilateral  sanctions  on  Cuba  be  removed  sooner 
rather than later.
However much the world may have changed since 
1945,  the  United  Nations  remains  the  only  universal 
intergovernmental institution that unites us in a global 
community of sovereign States. Yes, the Organization 
may  have  its  shortcomings,  but  it  remains  a  bastion 
of  hope  for  humankind.  Indeed,  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session  was 
correct in making the following observation:
“Yet for all its imperfections, which are, after all, 
inherent  in  any  institution  shaped  by  the  human 
mind 
...  the  Organization  remains  critical  to 
addressing the growing needs of humankind. One 
simply cannot imagine a world in which peace and 
the dignity of all could flourish without the United 
Nations.” (see A/67/PV.1, p. 2)
I could not agree more. The responsibility for making 
the  United  Nations  function  optimally  rests  squarely 
with all of us. Our shared vision and objectives require 
much more than the reaffirmation of our commitment 
to  the  Organization’s  founding  principles.  Greater 
political will is an ingredient essential to achieving the 
ideals that underpin the Charter of the United Nations. 
We look forward to a rebirth and an injection of fresh 
energy into the United Nations system, so that its next 
70 years can be a period of even greater achievement and 
success. We must continue to carry out the obligation 
that  its  founding  Members  handed  down  to  us  with  a 
solemn sense of responsibility on the part of all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Lesotho for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Pakalitha  Bethuel  Mosisili,  Prime  Minister 
of the Kingdom of Lesotho, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Irakli Garibashvili, Prime Minister 
of Georgia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Georgia.
Mr. Irakli Garibashvili, Prime Minister of Georgia, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Irakli  Garibashvili, 
Prime Minister of Georgia, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly.
Mr. Garibashvili (Georgia): It is a great honour to 
once again address the General Assembly as we mark 
the seventieth anniversary of the founding of the United 
Nations. The occasion provides us with an opportunity 
to reflect on our accomplishments and to recognize the 
challenges that remain in achieving peace, security and 
human rights at home and abroad.
Georgia is a small country with a big heart and even 
bigger dreams. It is on the move and headed in the right 
direction. Our vision is clear and our future is bright. 
In  a  major  announcement  this  week,  the  World  Bank 
released its comprehensive new report on governance, 
and I am very proud to say that Georgia was at the top 
of  the  charts  in  overall  progress  in  all  six  indicators. 
According  to  the  rankings,  since  2012  Georgia  has 
jumped  13  places  in  regulatory  quality,  16  in  voice 
and accountability, 19 in the rule of law, 22 in political 
15-29658
21/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
stability  and 
in  Government  effectiveness,  and 
23  in  controlling  corruption.  That  dramatic  progress 
underscores  my  Government’s  determination 
to 
strengthen  the  rule  of  law  and  media  freedom,  build 
a modern economy and move our nation forward with 
confidence.
By contrast, just two decades ago Georgia was an 
isolated country torn by civil war, with few functioning 
institutions of modern statehood. Today we are writing 
a new chapter in the history of our great nation. Georgia 
is  a  modern,  dynamic  and  democratic  State.  Next 
year,  we  will  celebrate  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary 
of  Georgia’s  regaining  its  independence.  Freedom, 
fairness and justice, as we say, run through the veins 
of our people. The Georgian people are committed to 
the rule of law, to the protection of human rights and to 
democratic values. We will stay the course on reform, 
which is the only road to peace and prosperity for our 
country. 
We  are  moving  our  country  forward  in  the  same 
spirit  that  our  ancestors  embodied  for  thousands  of 
years.  Georgia  has  absorbed  the  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  principles  that  have 
guided  our  democratic  development.  We 
learned 
quickly  and  embraced  passionately 
the  spirit  of 
international cooperation. So on behalf of all freedom-
loving  Georgians,  I  thank  the  United  Nations  and  all 
free people around the world for their steadfast support 
of my country.
Today,  Georgia  is  firmly  connected  to  the  world 
and the family of nations. We have dedicated ourselves 
to  democracy,  human  rights,  sustainable  development 
and  the  promise  of  peace.  We  are  building  a  mature 
democracy  and  a  job-creating  economy  even  in  the 
face of significant regional security threats. The steady 
arc of our Euro-Atlantic path reflects Georgia’s strong 
European identity and values. European integration has 
proved to be a powerful incentive for calm cooperation 
among  European  States  and  their  neighbours.  We 
reached  a  milestone  in  June  2014,  when  I  signed  the 
Association  Agreement  with  the  European  Union.  As 
part of Europe, Georgia will become part of that fabric 
of peace and stability, which can only benefit our own 
neighbours, and I think it will make us more secure.
In  the  past  few  years,  my  Government  and  our 
country  has  made  progress  in  every  policy  area. 
We  have  established  a  social  compact  that  rewards 
work  and  enterprise  while  providing  a  social  safety 
net  for  those  in  need.  Despite  challenging  economic 
headwinds,  we  have  introduced  a  national  health-
care programme and doubled welfare services. In just 
one  important  initiative,  we  will  save  over  200,000 
lives through a new and creative campaign to combat 
hepatitis  C.  We  are  solidifying  Georgia’s  democracy. 
Our  people  demand  and  deserve  a  strong  democracy 
and a responsive Government. We have created a system 
of governance that is more open, more transparent and 
more accountable to the people than ever before. But we 
will not rest. More must be done.
The  2013  presidential  election  and  the  2014  local 
elections  were  praised  by  international  observers  as 
free and fair. I am also proud of the fact that last year we 
adopted Georgia’s first comprehensive long-term human 
rights  strategy  and  enacted  a  new  anti-discrimination 
law. My Government strives to ensure human rights for 
all of our people. A free and open democracy goes hand 
in hand with a free and open marketplace. 
Economic  freedom  remains  the  central  pillar  of 
our  development  plan.  Our  plan  is  designed  to  grow 
our economy, strengthen our institutions of governance 
and  deliver  more  jobs  and  more  opportunities  for  the 
Georgian  people.  We  are  driving  growth  by  making 
Georgia a great place to do business and an attractive 
location  for  foreign  investment.  Since  2014,  we  have 
added 90,000 new jobs in Georgia, covering all sectors, 
including  agriculture,  manufacturing,  tourism  and 
energy.  Doing  business  in  Georgia  continues  to  be 
easy.  Foreign  and  domestic  businesses  freely  operate 
in  a  competitive  environment  with  strong  guarantees 
of private-property rights. The World Bank also ranks 
Georgia  as  the  fifteenth  easiest  place  to  do  business 
in the world. In 2014, Georgia achieved an 87 per cent 
surge in foreign direct investment (FDI), which is the 
largest growth in and highest amount of FDI since 2007.
Georgia has also become a major tourist destination 
and venue for international sporting events. The world is 
catching on to the fact that Georgia has it all — beautiful 
beaches  and  stunning  mountain  resorts,  a  gourmet 
tradition, exceptional wines, unique historical sites and 
world-class  hospitality.  In  August,  Tbilisi  hosted  two 
major  sporting  events,  the  European  Youth  Olympic 
Festival  and  the  2015  Union  of  European  Football 
Associations  Super  Cup,  which  provided  a  unique 
opportunity  to  celebrate  cooperation  over  conflict. 
Speaking of sports, I must take this opportunity to wish 
the Georgian national rugby team success as they face 
New Zealand tomorrow at the Rugby World Cup. Our 
nation is proud of them.
22/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
Another  area  of  our  national  development  is 
education.  I  personally  know  the  value  of  a  good 
education and studying abroad. I want Georgian youths 
to have that same opportunity. To that end, we launched 
a  new  programme  where  the  Georgian  Government 
will  provide  financial  support  for  our  students  to 
study  abroad.  In  return,  they  must  come  back  home 
and  put  their  skills  to  use  in  service  to  our  country. 
For  those  hard-working  Georgians  who  cannot  travel 
abroad, we are bringing world-class education right to 
Georgia. I am proud to say we recently inaugurated a 
new  programme  in  cooperation  with  the  Millennium 
Challenge Corporation of the United States. Georgian 
students  can  now  obtain  a  United  States  engineering 
degree from San Diego State University without leaving 
Georgia.
Even  with  all  those  achievements,  we  still  face 
challenges to our security at home. I regret that since 
my last address to the United Nations (see A/69/PV.14), 
the Russian Federation signed the so-called integration 
treaties with Sukhumi and Tskhinvali. Russia continues 
to illegally extend its control over Georgian sovereign 
territory.  I  condemn  that  creeping  annexation  and 
Russia’s disregard for international law. A tragic result 
is that the local population in the occupied territories 
of  Georgia  are  robbed  of  the  fundamental  rights  of  a 
free  people.  De  facto  authorities  recently  undertook 
additional  measures  to  suppress  still  further  the 
Georgians’ right to be educated in their mother tongue. 
The freedom of movement and the basic rights of a free 
nation are crushed, along with the hopes and dreams of 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  victims  of  ethnic  cleansing 
who only wish to return to their places of origin.
I  must  once  again  underline  the  importance  of 
resolution 69/286, on the status of internally displaced 
persons and refugees from Abkhazia, Georgia, and the 
Tskhinvali region/South Ossetia, Georgia, and similar 
resolutions annually adopted by the General Assembly. 
The  pain  of  the  conflict  is  real.  The  dislocation  is 
profound. Just since 2012, our Government has provided 
homes  to  approximately  10,000  internally  displaced 
families from the occupied territories. 
Against 
the  backdrop  of  continued  Russian 
occupation,  my  Government  has  nevertheless  been 
clear  on  the  need  to  forge  responsible  and  pragmatic 
relations with the Russian Federation. To that end, we 
have taken a number of constructive, concrete steps to 
advance trade, transport, communication, humanitarian 
contacts  and  tourism  when  and  where  possible  with 
Russia.
Let  me  be  clear.  Relations  with  Russia  cannot  be 
settled at the expense of our sovereignty and territorial 
integrity.  I  hope  that  the  Russian  Federation  will 
finally  fulfil  its  international  obligations,  including 
the 12 August 2008 ceasefire agreement, and act as a 
responsible member of the international community. At 
the same time, I want to once again reaffirm our strong 
commitment to the peaceful resolution of the conflict, 
based  on  the  fundamental  principles  of  international 
law and the Charter of the United Nations.
Let  me  now  address  the  Abkhazian  and  Ossetian 
peoples, my brothers and sisters. I firmly believe that 
no  one  will  rewrite  history  and  erase  our  common 
past. All attempts to cut off ties and divide our peoples 
will  fail.  We  will  benefit  from  a  growing  Georgian 
economy  soon  and  from  our  Association  Agreement 
with  the  European  Union,  including  increasing  trade 
and visa liberalization. We know that the arc of history 
favours  more  cooperation,  more  integration  and  more 
prosperity. When we work together, we all succeed and 
benefit. I look forward to the day when we will share in 
our mutual prosperity.
Despite  those  challenges,  my  country  seeks  to 
contribute to international peace, security, sustainable 
development  and  economic  prosperity.  Last  year  I 
had  the  honour  of  announcing  Georgia’s  intention  to 
establish  a  Silk  Road  forum.  Today,  I  am  proud  that 
the idea has materialized, and in a few weeks we will 
host  the  first-of-its-kind  high-level  forum  in  Tbilisi.
My  country’s  location  is  at  a  key  crossroads  linking 
East with West. That was underscored this year when 
Georgia hosted both the annual meeting of the European 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the first 
meeting of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. 
The  revitalization  of  the  Silk  Road  is  an  important 
opportunity  to  ensure  deeper  economic  and  cultural 
ties  between  Asia  and  Europe.  We  are  developing  a 
strong  economic  and  trade  relationship  with  China, 
and  I  think  the  Silk  Road  region  will  open  up  new 
opportunities.  That  region  accounts  for  two  thirds 
of  the  world’s  population  and  60  per  cent  of  its  gross 
domestic product. I am convinced the Tbilisi Silk Road 
forum offers great potential to promote cooperation and 
regional integration.
I  also  want  to  comment  on  the  recent  P5+1 
agreement  reached  with  Iran.  My  country  is  hopeful 
15-29658
23/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
that  the  process  will  develop  in  a  positive  direction 
and  contribute  to  greater  security  and  economic 
development in the wider region.
Georgia has repeatedly demonstrated its readiness 
to  pay  more  than  its  fair  share  to  promote  a  secure 
international  environment.  My  country  contributed 
the  second-largest  number  of  troops,  after  the  United 
States, to the Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan. 
Our soldiers are among the world’s best. They are the 
pride of my nation, and we honour them. I would like 
to take a moment to remember all the brave Georgian 
troops who serve their nation and have given their lives 
in  the  pursuit  of  peace  and  freedom.  My  country’s 
contributions  to  our  common  security  do  not  end 
there.  Georgia  also  supports  the  European  Union’s 
peacekeeping efforts, including providing the second-
largest  troop  contribution  to  the  European  Union 
Military  Advisory  Mission  in  the  Central  African 
Republic.
A core element of Georgia’s security and its Euro-
Atlantic  integration  is  its  ever-deepening  relationship 
with  NATO.  Following  last  year’s  NATO  Summit, 
NATO agreed to provide Georgia a substantial package 
of practical support to strengthen Georgia’s armed forces 
and make us a more integrated ally. Most recently, we 
inaugurated a new joint training and evaluation centre 
in Georgia, where Georgian forces will receive NATO 
training. We are also increasing the number of training 
exercises carried out between Georgia and the United 
States and between Georgia and its NATO allies.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  adopted 
70 years ago, was designed to put an end to chaos and 
to build a better world. Today, the world is still facing 
unprecedented  challenges  that  require  strong  political 
resolve. Where necessary, we must reform international 
organizations to meet current demands. In that context, 
we  commend  the  ongoing  inter-State  negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform,  which  aim  at  raising  the 
effectiveness of the United Nations in crisis situations, 
as defined by the Charter. Increasing the role of small 
States in the Security Council, avoiding misuse of the 
veto rights, as well as improving the working methods, 
should be the cornerstone of the reform process. Thus 
I  express  hope  that  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United Nations will serve as a reminder to all of us to 
stand firmly for the principles enshrined in the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  for  the  goal  of  peace  and 
stability throughout the world.
In  conclusion,  let  me  end  where  I  began.  Our 
vision is clear and our future is bright. Let me share my 
dream for Georgia. I see a country where every young 
Georgian boy or girl has access to a quality education 
in order to give them the opportunity to develop their 
God-given talents. I see a country where people are free 
from the fear of not having the health care and resources 
they need to protect their family, livelihood and future. 
I  see  a  strong,  prosperous  Georgia  that  leverages  its 
geographic  location  as  a  vital  crossroads  connecting 
East  and  West,  North  and  South.  I  see  a  strong  and 
proud  nation  dedicated  to  facilitating  peace  among 
neighbours, as well as commerce between continents. 
I see a country that is a force for good and stability in 
its  own  neighbourhood,  a  country  that  lives  up  to  its 
responsibilities as a global citizen.
Let us walk together in creating a brighter future 
for the next generations. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Georgia for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Irakli Garibashvili, Prime Minister of Georgia, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Prime Minister of 
the Hellenic Republic
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Hellenic 
Republic.
Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Prime Minister of the Hellenic 
Republic, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alexis  Tsipras,  Prime 
Minister of the Hellenic Republic, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly.
Mr.  Tsipras  (Greece):  Seventy  years  have  passed 
since  the  United  Nations  was  founded,  after  the  most 
disastrous war in history. In the wake of that war, the 
noble declarations of the United Nations raised hopes for 
a common peaceful future, based on universal values, 
social justice and respect for human rights. Much has 
been achieved since. But, regrettably, the vision of the 
founders of the Organization is far from being fulfilled. 
Today we are witnessing a vast humanitarian crisis, 
unprecedented movements of displaced people and an 
increase  in  poverty,  violence,  extremism  and  human 
24/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
rights abuses. Nevertheless, the big question for us is 
not to identify the challenges we face. The peoples of 
this  world  know  very  well  what  they  face  every  day. 
This great Organization was established to answer the 
big  question:  how  do  we  deal  with  those  challenges 
on the basis of our shared values of the Charter of the 
United Nations?
Unfortunately,  as  the  years  go  by,  we  seem  to  be 
returning  not  only  to  the  same  problems,  but  to  the 
same old failed recipes that fostered those problems in 
the  first  place.  That  is  why  the  biggest  challenge  we 
face  today  is  an  existential  one:  whether  to  continue 
with the same old recipes of social exclusion, political 
fragmentation  and  economic  aggression,  or  to  try  to 
reclaim our future step by step, with confidence but also 
with the ability to learn from our mistakes. Allow me 
to refer to the efforts of my own country in confronting 
three specific crises in the past few years. 
Like  many  other  countries,  Greece  was  hit  hard 
by  the  2008  economic  crisis,  due  to  the  structural 
weaknesses  of  its  economy  and  its  high  debt  and 
budgetary deficits. Yet the neoliberal recipe we and other 
European countries were called to implement came at a 
devastating social cost and contributed to deepening the 
economic and fiscal crisis rather than curing it. We lost 
25 per cent of our gross domestic product (GDP), our 
debt to GDP ratio grew to 180 per cent, unemployment 
reached 27 per cent and the migration of graduates to 
European countries accelerated. 
We faced a firm commitment on the part of some 
to the idea that Greece must exit the eurozone, or that 
the  institutional  and  structural  reforms  we  need  must 
be combined with tough austerity measures and welfare 
and  wage  cuts.  After  many  months  of  negotiation, 
Greece  agreed  to  a  new  stabilization  programme  that 
includes reforms in our public administration and in the 
pension and tax systems and gives us the opportunity to 
stabilize our economy by creating the foundation for a 
necessary reprofiling of our debt. 
Unfortunately, at the same time, it imposes measures 
further burdening both society and the economy. Those 
measures  should  have  been  avoided.  We  needed  and 
still  need  to  struggle  step  by  step  to  claim  a  growth 
agenda rather than an austerity agenda, to protect the 
most  vulnerable  members  of  society  and  distribute 
tax burdens justly; and to link the development of the 
economy and the restoration of confidence to the need 
to restructure our debt. 
How  familiar  does  that  sound  to  others  in  the 
Assembly?  How  many  times  since  the  1970s  have 
countries  in  the  developed  and,  more  recently,  in 
the  developing  world  struggled  when  facing  exactly 
those  problems  —  problems  that  concern  not  just 
their  weaknesses,  but  the  recipes  they  are  given  to 
deal  with  them?  We  have  to  realize  that  we  need  a 
global  financial  and  economic  system  oriented  to 
fostering national growth strategies and our post-2015 
development  agenda.  We  have  to  discuss  the  issue  of 
debt  restructuring  in  all  competent  forums,  including 
this  one, 
in  connection  with  developing  growth 
strategies, not austerity strategies.
is 
the  forefront 
Another  regional  European  crisis  where  Greece 
is  at 
the  recent  unprecedented 
migration flows. Since the beginning of the year, more 
than  300,000  people,  mostly  from  Syria,  Iraq  and 
Afghanistan,  have  entered  the  country  with  the  goal 
of  transiting  to  Western  European  countries.  Greece, 
like all other European countries, was taken aback by 
that  development.  Nevertheless,  the  people  of  Greece 
showed  their  solidarity  by  providing  food  and  shelter 
to  the  refugees.  In  cooperation  with  the  European 
Union  and  other  international  organizations,  we  are 
doing everything we can to manage those flows in an 
effective  and  humane  way,  by  improving  reception 
facilities  and  identification  procedures,  as  well  as  by 
setting up hotspots to facilitate relocation. 
Nevertheless, for some, the only way to deal with 
that challenge is to build walls higher, to repel migrants 
by force, or to ensure that they remain someone else’s 
responsibility,  as  far  away  as  possible.  We  do  not 
believe  that  the  future  of  Europe  or  the  future  of  our 
world can be built with ever-higher walls, or children 
dying at our doorstep. Neither can we forget that many 
of our ancestors were refugees and migrants. We cannot 
allow  racism  and  xenophobia  to  destroy  our  common 
principles. 
In the United Nations framework, we have to build 
the  necessary  mechanism  for  resettling  people  from 
countries  neighbouring  Syria,  while  also  supporting 
those  countries  directly  in  hosting  refugees  and 
dismantling  trafficking  networks.  That  resettlement 
mechanism,  together  with  the  existing  relocation 
mechanism 
those 
people,  discouraging  them  from  trusting  traffickers. 
Furthermore, we have to increase support for frontline 
European  States,  such  as  Greece,  in  their  effort  to 
manage those flows.
in  Europe,  will  give  hope 
to 
15-29658
25/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
Greece is also at the centre of a third security crisis, 
one that causes this refugee crisis. We are at the heart of 
a triangle of destabilization, with Ukraine to the north 
and  the  conflicts  in  Libya  and  in  the  Middle  East  to 
the south-west and south-east. Located in that unstable 
environment,  Greece  has  been  striving  to  bolster 
regional security. It supports all efforts promoting peace 
and  stability.  Nevertheless,  again  we  hear  some  who 
insist  that  we  should  embark  on  unilateral  initiatives 
without considering their prospects and consequences, 
or  leave  the  conflicts  to  be  settled  by  themselves, 
without contributing to stabilization or reconstruction. 
Yet  those  are  exactly  the  mistakes  that  brought 
us  here  in  the  first  place.  We  do  not  have  the  luxury 
to  make  foreign  policy  choices  without  examining  in 
advance what their consequences will be. In Syria we 
must  act  decisively  in  favour  of  reconciliation  and  a 
political solution that will lay the ground for the Syrian-
led  democratic  transition,  foreseen  in  the  Geneva 
Communiqué.  In  that  regard,  we  support  initiatives 
aimed  at  engagement  with  all  relevant  international 
and  regional  actors.  In  Libya,  we  fully  support  the 
United Nations efforts, and we welcome the successful 
completion  of  negotiations  and  political  dialogue  last 
week.  Furthermore,  we  believe  that  the  Middle  East 
peace  process  is  of  key  importance  for  the  region.  A 
new momentum for a solution must be promoted, with 
a  view  to  the  creation  of  a  State  of  Palestine  on  the 
basis  of  the  pre-1967  borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
its capital, that coexists peacefully with Israel.
Concerning  Ukraine,  we  support  its  territorial 
integrity,  independence  and  sovereignty  within  its 
internationally  recognized  borders.  We  appreciate 
the  efforts  of  the  Normandy  Contact  Group  and  the 
conciliatory role of the Organization for Security and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  in  avoiding  a  vicious  circle 
of  militarization  in  the  region,  And  we  call  on  the 
signatories of the Minsk agreements to implement the 
agreements in full. 
We  are  also  deeply  concerned  about  the  rise  of 
jihadism,  which  must  be  dealt  with  decisively  and 
comprehensively. 
importance 
to  engagement  with 
Beyond  the  crises  I  mentioned,  Greece  attaches 
particular 
its 
immediate  neighbourhood.  There  also  it  is  important 
to foster new initiatives rather than remain trapped in 
the dead-ends of the past. I spoke of the need to avoid 
constructing walls. And truly it is shameful that for the 
last 41 years — the same number as my age — Cyprus 
has  remained  divided.  Today  more  than  ever,  and  in 
light of the instability in our region, it is important that 
the  momentum  be  grasped  for  a  mutually  acceptable, 
just, viable and comprehensive solution to the Cyprus 
issue, based on the relevant United Nations resolutions 
and  on  Cyprus’s  membership  in  the  European  Union, 
to the benefit of all the people of Cyprus — Greek and 
Turkish Cypriots — as well as all other communities. 
In that context, I would like to underline Greece’s 
full support for the intercommunal talks, held under the 
leadership  of  President  Anastasiades  and  the  head  of 
the  Turkish  Cypriot  community,  Mr.  Akıncı.  I  firmly 
believe that any real and lasting solution will have to 
eventually deal with the international issue of security, 
the cancellation of the anachronistic treaties of alliance 
and  of  guarantee  and  the  withdrawal  of  all  foreign 
troops,  including  the  troops  occupying  the  northern 
part of this island. 
As  a  regional  player  keen  on  promoting  security 
in  the  region,  Greece  has  been  making  steady  efforts 
to  improve  cooperation  with  Turkey.  We  have  done 
so  through  a  wide  range  of  initiatives,  including  the 
promotion  of  our  dialogue  on  confidence-building 
measures.  Full  respect  for  good-neighbourly  relations 
and international law by Turkey, as well as a just and 
viable solution to the Cyprus issue, remain preconditions 
for the full normalization of Greek-Turkish relations.
In the Western Balkans, we promote robust bilateral 
relations  and  a  commitment  to  the  region’s  European 
perspective.  Greece  has  stepped  up  efforts  towards 
the  settlement  of  all  differences  in  the  region,  among 
them  the  issue  of  the  name  of  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia. We have proposed a pragmatic 
settlement framework aimed at reaching an agreement 
and  an  agreed  set  of  confidence-building  measures 
that provide us with an opportunity to further enhance 
bilateral cooperation and trust.
People all around the globe are striving to achieve 
a better future for themselves and their children. People 
in my country are struggling every day, with pride and 
dignity,  to  overcome  crises  and  regain  hope.  Even  in 
their  most  difficult  moments,  they  are  assisting  those 
more  in  need,  those  fleeing  conflict  zones.  Even  in 
their  most  difficult  moments,  they  are  asserting  their 
democratic  right  to  choose  their  own  fate.  That  is 
a  daily  example  of  people  insisting,  even  under  the 
most  difficult  conditions,  on  their  basic  humanity 
and  democratic  rights.  That  example  should  guide  us 
in taking the necessary steps towards a safer, just and 
26/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
prosperous world for ourselves and future generations 
to live in.
By fuelling Iran’s aggressions with billions of dollars in 
sanctions relief, it makes war more likely. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Hellenic Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Prime Minister of the Hellenic 
Republic, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime 
Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister 
for Health, and Minister for Communication of the 
State of Israel of the State of Israel
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs, Minister for Health, and Minister for 
Communication of the State of Israel.
Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime Minister, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  Minister  for  Health,  and 
Minister for Communication of the State of Israel, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu, 
Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister 
for Health, and Minister for Communication of the State 
of Israel, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Netanyahu  (Israel):  I  bring  greetings  from 
Jerusalem, the city in which the Jewish people’s hopes 
and prayers for peace for all of humanity have echoed 
throughout the ages.
Thirty-one years ago, as Israel’s Ambassador to the 
United Nations, I stood at this rostrum for the first time. 
I spoke that day against a draft resolution sponsored by 
Iran to expel Israel from the United Nations. Then, as 
now, the United Nations was obsessively hostile towards 
Israel, the one true democracy in the Middle East. Then, 
as now, some sought to deny the one and only Jewish 
State a place among nations. I ended that first speech by 
saying, “Gentlemen, check your fanaticism at the door” 
(A/39/PV.32, para. 83). 
More  than  three  decades  later,  as  the  Prime 
Minister of Israel, I am again privileged to speak from 
this  rostrum.  And  for  me,  that  privilege  has  always 
come  with  a  moral  responsibility  to  speak  the  truth. 
So after three days of listening to world leaders praise 
the nuclear deal with Iran, I begin my speech today by 
saying, “Ladies and gentlemen, check your enthusiasm 
at the door”. The deal does not make peace more likely. 
Just  look  at  what  Iran  has  done  in  the  past  six 
months  alone,  since  the  framework  agreement  was 
announced  in  Lausanne.  Iran  boosted  its  supply  of 
devastating weapons to Syria. Iran sent more soldiers of 
its Revolutionary Guard into Syria. Iran sent thousands 
of  Afghani  and  Pakistani  Shiite  fighters  to  Syria. 
Iran did all that to prop up Al-Assad’s brutal regime. 
Iran  also  shipped  tons  of  weapons  and  ammunition  
to  the  Houthi  rebels  in  Yemen,  including  another 
shipment just two days ago. Iran threatened to topple 
Jordan. Iran’s proxy, Hizbullah, smuggled into Lebanon 
SA-22 missiles to down our planes and Yakhont cruise 
missiles  to  sink  our  ships.  Iran  supplied  Hizbullah 
with  precision-guided  surface-to-surface  missiles  and 
attack  drones  so  it  can  accurately  hit  any  target  in 
Israel. Iran aided Hamas and Islamic Jihad in building 
armed  drones  in  Gaza.  Iran  also  made  clear  its  plans 
to open two new terror fronts against Israel, promising 
to arm Palestinians in the West Bank and sending its 
Revolutionary  Guard  generals  to  the  Golan  Heights, 
from  which  its  operatives  recently  fired  rockets  on 
northern Israel.
Israel  will  continue  to  respond  forcefully  to  any 
attacks  against  it  from  Syria.  Israel  will  continue 
to  act  to  prevent  the  transfer  of  strategic  weapons  to 
Hizbullah  from  and  through  Syrian  territory.  Every 
few  weeks,  Iran  and  Hizbullah  set  up  new  terrorist 
cells  in  cities  throughout  the  world.  Three  such  cells 
were recently uncovered in Kuwait, Jordan and Cyprus. 
In  May,  security  forces  in  Cyprus  raided  a  Hizbullah 
agent’s  apartment  in  the  city  of  Larnaca.  There  they 
found  five  tons  of  ammonium  nitrate  —  roughly  the 
same amount of ammonium nitrate used to blow up the 
Federal Building in Oklahoma City. And that was just 
in one apartment, in one city, in one country. But Iran 
is setting up dozens of terrorist cells like that around 
the world. They are setting up those terror cells in this 
hemisphere as well. 
I repeat, Iran has been doing all of this — everything 
that  I  have  just  described  —  just  within  the  past  six 
months,  when  it  was  trying  to  convince  the  world  to 
remove  the  sanctions.  Just  imagine  what  Iran  will 
do  after  those  sanctions  are  lifted.  Unleashed  and 
unmuzzled, Iran will go on the prowl, devouring more 
and more prey. In the wake of the nuclear deal, Iran is 
spending billions of dollars on weapons and satellites. 
Does  anyone  here  think  that  Iran  is  doing  that  to 
15-29658
27/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
advance peace? Does anyone here think that hundreds 
of billions of dollars in sanctions relief and fat contracts 
will turn that rapacious tiger into a kitten? People who 
think so should think again. 
In  2013,  President  Rouhani  began  his  so-called 
charm  offensive  here  at  the  United  Nations.  Two 
years later, Iran is executing more political prisoners, 
escalating its regional aggression and rapidly expanding 
its global terror net. They say that actions speak louder 
than  words,  but,  in  Iran’s  case,  their  words  speak  as 
loudly  as  their  actions.  Just  listen  to  the  Deputy 
Commander  of  Iran’s  Revolutionary  Guard  Qods 
Force. In February, he said that “the Islamic Revolution 
is  not  limited  by  geographic  borders”.  He  boasted 
that  Afghanistan,  Iraq,  Lebanon,  Syria,  Palestine  and 
Yemen  are  among  the  countries  being  “conquered  by 
the Islamic Republic of Iran”. He said “conquered”. 
For those here who believe that the deal in Vienna 
will bring about a change in Iran’s policy, listen to what 
Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Khamenei, said five 
days after the nuclear deal was reached: “Our policies 
towards the arrogant Government of the United States 
will  not  change”.  The  United  States,  he  vowed,  will 
continue to be Iran’s enemy. While giving the mullahs 
more  money  is  likely  to  fuel  more  repression  inside 
Iran,  it  will  definitely  fuel  more  aggression  outside 
Iran. 
As  the  leader  of  a  country  defending  itself  every 
day  against  Iran’s  growing  aggression,  I  wish  that  I 
could  take  comfort  in  the  claim  that  this  deal  blocks 
Iran’s  path  to  nuclear  weapons,  but  I  cannot,  because 
it  does  not.  This  deal  does  place  several  constraints 
on  Iran’s  nuclear  programme,  and  rightly  so,  because 
the  international  community  recognizes  that  Iran  is 
particularly  dangerous.  But,  here  is  the  catch.  Under 
this  deal,  if  Iran  does  not  change  its  behaviour  —  in 
fact,  even  if  it  becomes  more  dangerous  in  the  years 
to come — the most important constraints will still be 
automatically  lifted  by  year  10  and  by  year  15.  That 
would  place  a  militant  Islamic  terror  regime  weeks 
away  from  having  the  fissile  material  for  an  entire 
arsenal of nuclear bombs. That just does not make any 
sense. 
I  have  said  that  if  Iran  wants  to  be  treated  like  a 
normal  country,  let  it  act  like  a  normal  country.  This 
deal  will  treat  Iran  like  a  normal  country  even  if  it 
remains a dark theocracy that conquers its neighbours, 
sponsors  terrorism  worldwide  and  chants,  “Death 
to  Israel,  death  to  America!”  Does  anyone  seriously 
believe that flooding a radical theocracy with weapons 
and  cash  will  curb  its  appetite  for  aggression?  Does 
anyone  here  really  believe  that  a  theocratic  Iran  with 
sharper claws and sharper fangs will be more likely to 
change its stripes? There is a general rule that I have 
learned — and that that those here must have learned it 
in their lifetime — which is that when bad behaviour is 
rewarded, it only gets worse.
I  have  long  said  that  the  greatest  danger  that  the 
world faces is the coupling of militant Islam with nuclear 
weapons. I am gravely concerned that the nuclear deal 
with  Iran  will  prove  to  be  the  marriage  certificate  of 
that  unholy  union.  I  know  that  some  well-intentioned 
people sincerely believe that this deal is the best way to 
block Iran’s path to the bomb. However, one of history’s 
most  important,  yet  least  learned  lessons,  is  that  the 
best intentions do not prevent the worst outcomes. The 
vast  majority  of  Israelis  believe  that  this  nuclear  deal 
with Iran is a very bad deal. What makes matters even 
worse is that we see the world celebrating this bad deal, 
rushing to embrace and do business with a regime that 
is openly committed to our destruction. 
Last week, Major General Salehi, the Commander 
of Iran’s Army, proclaimed 
“We will annihilate Israel, for sure. We are glad that 
we  are  in  the  forefront  of  executing  the  Supreme 
Leader’s order to destroy Israel.” 
As for the Supreme Leader himself, a few days after the 
nuclear deal was announced, he released his latest book. 
It is a 400-page screed detailing his plan to destroy the 
State of Israel. Last month, Khamenei once again made 
his genocidal intentions clear. Before Iran’s top clerical 
body, the Assembly of Experts, he spoke about Israel, 
which is home to over 6 million Jews. He pledged that 
“there will be no Israel in 25 years”. Seventy years after 
the murder of 6 million Jews, Iran’s rulers promise to 
destroy my country, murder my people, and the response 
from this body, the response from nearly every one of 
the Governments represented here, has been absolutely 
nothing — utter silence, deafening silence.
Perhaps  members  of 
the  Assembly  can  now 
understand  why  Israel  is  not  joining  in  the  general 
celebration  of  the  deal.  If  Iran’s  rulers  were  working 
to  destroy  other  members’  countries,  perhaps  they 
would  be  less  enthusiastic  about  the  deal.  If  Iran’s 
terror proxies were firing thousands of rockets at other 
members’ cities, perhaps they would be more measured 
in their praise. And if the deal were unleashing a nuclear 
28/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
arms race in their neighbourhoods, perhaps they would 
be more reluctant to celebrate.
But no one should think that Iran is a danger only 
to Israel. Besides Iran’s aggression in the Middle East 
and its terror campaign around the world, Iran is also 
building  intercontinental  ballistic  missiles  whose  sole 
purpose  is  to  carry  nuclear  warheads.  Now  this  fact 
needs  to  be  remembered:  Iran  already  has  missiles 
that can reach Israel. So those intercontinental ballistic 
missiles that Iran is building are not meant for us. They 
are  meant  for  others  —  for  Europe,  for  America,  for 
raining down mass destruction anytime, anywhere.
It is not easy to oppose something that is embraced 
by  the  greatest  Powers  in  the  world.  Believe  me,  it 
would be far easier to remain silent. But throughout our 
history, the Jewish people have learned the heavy price 
of  silence.  And  as  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Jewish 
State, as someone who knows that history, I refuse to 
be silent. I will say it again. The days when the Jewish 
people  remained  passive  in  the  face  of  genocidal 
enemies — those days are over. Not being passive means 
speaking up about those dangers. We have spoken up, 
we are speaking up, and we will continue to do so. Not 
being  passive  also  means  defending  ourselves  against 
those dangers. We have. We are. And we will.
the 
the  official  policy  of 
Israel will not allow Iran to break in, to sneak in 
or to walk into the nuclear-weapons club. I know that 
preventing  Iran  from  developing  nuclear  weapons 
remains 
international 
community.  But  no  one  should  question  Israel’s 
determination  to  defend  itself  against  those  who  seek 
our destruction. For in every generation, there have been 
those who sought to destroy our people. In antiquity, we 
faced destruction from the ancient empires of Babylon 
and Rome. In the Middle Ages, we faced inquisitions 
and expulsions. And in modern times, we faced pogroms 
and the Holocaust. Yet the Jewish people persevered.
And  now  another  regime  has  arisen,  swearing  to 
destroy Israel. That regime would be wise to consider 
this  fact:  I  stand  here  today  representing  Israel,  a 
country that is 67 years young but is the nation State 
of  a  people  nearly  4,000  years  old.  The  empires  of 
Babylon and Rome are not represented in this Hall of 
nations, nor is the 1,000-year Reich. Those seemingly 
invincible empires are long gone. But Israel lives. The 
people of Israel live. 
The rebirth of Israel is a testament to the indomitable 
spirit  of  my  people.  For  a  hundred  generations,  the 
Jewish  people  dreamed  of  returning  to  the  land  of 
Israel.  Even  in  our  darkest  hours  —  and  we  had  so 
many — even in our darkest hours, we never gave up 
hope of rebuilding our eternal capital, Jerusalem. The 
establishment of Israel made it possible to realize that 
dream. It has enabled us to live as a free people in our 
ancestral homeland. It has enabled us to embrace Jews 
who have come from the four corners of the Earth to 
find  refuge  from  persecution.  They  have  come  from 
war-torn Europe, from Yemen, Iraq, and Morocco, from 
Ethiopia  and  the  Soviet  Union,  from  a  hundred  other 
lands. And today, as a rising tide of anti-Semitism once 
again sweeps across Europe and elsewhere, many Jews 
come to Israel to join us in building the Jewish future.
So here is my message to the rulers of Iran. Their 
plan  to  destroy  Israel  will  fail.  Israel  will  not  permit 
any force on Earth to threaten its future. And here is my 
message to all the countries represented here. Whatever 
resolutions  they  may  adopt  in  this  building,  whatever 
decisions they may take in their capitals, Israel will do 
whatever it must do to defend our State and to defend 
our people.
As the deal with Iran moves ahead, I hope it will 
be enforced — how can I put this? — with a little more 
rigour  than  was  shown  with  the  six  Security  Council 
resolutions  that  Iran  has  systematically  violated  and 
which  now  have  been  effectively  discarded.  I  would 
call  for  ensuring  that  the  inspectors  actually  inspect, 
that the snapback sanctions actually snap back, and that 
Iran’s  violations  not  be  swept  under  the  Persian  rug. 
There is one thing I can assure the Assembly of today 
that Israel will be watching closely.
What  the  international  community  now  needs  to 
do  is  clear:  first,  it  must  make  Iran  comply  with  all 
its nuclear obligations, and hold Iran’s feet to the fire. 
Secondly,  Iran’s  regional  aggression  must  be  put  in 
check by supporting and strengthening those fighting 
Iran’s  aggression,  beginning  with  Israel.  Thirdly,  use 
sanctions and all the tools available to tear down Iran’s 
global terror network.
Israel  is  working  closely  with  our  Arab  peace 
partners  to  address  our  common  security  challenges 
from  Iran  and  also  the  security  challenges  from  the 
Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL)  and  from 
others.  We  are  also  working  with  other  States  in  the 
Middle  East,  as  well  as  with  countries  in  Africa,  in 
Asia and beyond. Many in our region know that both 
Iran  and  ISIL  are  our  common  enemies.  And  when 
15-29658
29/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
one’s enemies fight each other, one does not strengthen 
either one. One weakens both. 
Common dangers are clearly bringing Israel and its 
Arab neighbours closer. As we work together to thwart 
the dangers that I have mentioned, I hope that we will 
build  lasting  partnerships  for  security,  for  prosperity 
and for peace. But in Israel, we never forget one thing. 
We never forget that Israel’s most important partner has 
always been, and will always be, the United States of 
America.  The  alliance  between  Israel  and  the  United 
States is unshakeable.
President Obama and I agree on the need to keep 
arms out of the hands of Iran’s terror proxies. We agree 
on  the  need  to  stop  Iran  from  destabilizing  countries 
throughout  the  Middle  East.  Israel  deeply  appreciates 
President  Obama’s  willingness  to  bolster  our  security 
and to help Israel maintain its qualitative military edge 
in order to confront the enormous challenges we face. 
Israel  is  grateful  that  this  sentiment  is  widely  shared 
by  the  American  people  and  its  representatives  in 
Congress — both by those who supported the deal and 
by those who opposed it.
President  Obama  and  I  have  both  said  that  our 
differences  over  the  nuclear  deal  are  a  disagreement 
within the family. But we have no disagreement about 
the  need  to  work  together  to  secure  our  common 
future.  And  what  a  great  future  it  could  be.  Israel  is 
uniquely poised to take advantage of the promise of the 
twenty-first century. Israel is a world leader in science 
and  technology,  in  cybertechnology,  software,  water, 
agriculture, medicine, biotechnology and so many other 
fields that are being revolutionized by Israeli ingenuity 
and Israeli innovation. Israel is the innovation nation. 
Israeli know-how is everywhere. It is in our computers’ 
microprocessors  and  flash  drives.  It  is  in  our  smart 
phones,  when  we  send  instant  messages  and  navigate 
our cars. It is on our farms, when we drip-irrigate our 
crops  and  keep  our  grains  and  produce  fresh.  It  is  in 
our  universities,  when  we  study  Nobel  Prize-winning 
discoveries  in  chemistry  and  economics.  It  is  in 
our  medicine  cabinets,  when  we  use  drugs  to  treat 
Parkinson’s  disease  and  multiple  sclerosis.  It  is  even 
on our plates, when we eat delicious cherry tomatoes. 
They were also perfected in Israel, in case someone did 
not know.
We  are  so  proud  in  Israel  of  the  long  strides  that 
our country has been able to take in a short time. We 
are so proud that our small country is making such a 
huge contribution to the entire world. Yet the dreams of 
our people, enshrined for eternity by the great prophets 
of the Bible, will be fully realized only when there is 
peace. 
As  the  Middle  East  descends  into  chaos,  Israel’s 
peace  agreements  with  Egypt  and  Jordan  are  two 
cornerstones of stability. Israel remains committed to 
achieving peace with the Palestinians as well. Israelis 
know the price of war. I know the price of war. I was 
nearly  killed  in  battle.  I  lost  many  friends.  I  lost  my 
beloved  brother  Yoni.  Those  who  know  the  price  of 
war  can  best  appreciate  what  the  blessings  of  peace 
would  mean  —  for  ourselves,  our  children  and  our 
grandchildren.  I  am  prepared  to  immediately  resume 
direct peace negotiations with the Palestinian Authority 
without  any  preconditions  whatsoever.  Unfortunately, 
President Abbas said yesterday that he is not prepared 
to do that. I hope he changes his mind, because I remain 
committed to a vision of two States for two peoples, in 
which a demilitarized Palestinian State recognizes the 
Jewish State.
As  members  know,  the  peace  process  began  over 
two  decades  ago.  Yet  despite  the  best  efforts  of  six 
Israeli prime ministers — Rabin, Peres, Barak, Sharon, 
Olmert and myself — the Palestinians have consistently 
refused to end the conflict and to make a final peace 
with Israel. Unfortunately, we heard that rejectionism 
again  only  yesterday  from  President  Abbas.  How  can 
Israel  make  peace  with  a  Palestinian  partner  who 
refuses to even sit at the negotiating table? Israel expects 
the Palestinian Authority to abide by its commitments. 
The  Palestinians  should  not  walk  away  from  peace.  I 
would like to tell President Abbas that I know it is not 
easy. I know it is hard. But we owe it to our peoples to 
try, to continue to try. If we actually sit down together, 
if we actually negotiate and stop negotiating about the 
negotiation, and if we actually sit down to try to resolve 
the  conflict  between  us,  recognizing  each  other  and 
not using a Palestinian State as a stepping stone for yet 
another  Islamist  dictatorship  in  the  Middle  East  but 
as something that will live at peace next to the Jewish 
State, we can do remarkable things for our peoples.
The  United  Nations  can  help  advance  peace  by 
supporting direct, unconditional negotiations between 
the  parties.  The  United  Nations  will  certainly  not 
help  advance  peace  by  trying  to  impose  solutions 
or  by  encouraging  Palestinian  rejectionism,  And 
the  United  Nations  should  do  one  more  thing.  The 
United Nations should finally rid itself of its obsessive 
bashing  of  Israel.  Here  is  just  one  absurd  example  of 
30/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
that obsession. In the four years of horrific violence in 
Syria, more than a quarter of a million people have lost 
their lives. That is more than 10 times the number of 
Israelis and Palestinians combined who have lost their 
lives in a century of conflict between us. Yet last year, 
the Assembly adopted 20 resolutions against Israel and 
only one resolution about the savage slaughter in Syria. 
Talk  about  injustice.  Talk  about  disproportionality. 
Count them: 20. And one against Syria. Well, frankly I 
am not surprised. To borrow a line from Yogi Berra, the 
late,  great  baseball  player  and  part-time  philosopher, 
when  it  comes  to  the  annual  bashing  of  Israel  at  the 
United Nations, it is déjà vu all over again.
Enough  is  enough.  Today,  31  years  after  I  stood 
here for the first time, I am still asking when the United 
Nations will finally check its anti-Israel fanaticism at 
the  door,  when  the  United  Nations  will  finally  stop 
slandering Israel as a threat to peace and when it will 
actually start helping Israel advance peace. The same 
question should be posed to Palestinian leaders. When 
will they start working with Israel to advance peace and 
reconciliation,  stop  libelling  Israel  and  stop  inciting 
hatred and violence?
Here  is  a  good  place  for  President  Abbas  to 
begin.  He  should  stop  spreading  lies  about  Israel’s 
alleged intentions on the Temple Mount. Israel is fully 
committed  to  maintaining  the  status  quo  there.  What 
President  Abbas  should  be  speaking  out  against  are 
the actions of the militant Islamists who are smuggling 
explosives into the Al-Aqsa Mosque and who are trying 
to  prevent  Jews  and  Christians  from  visiting  the  holy 
sites. That is the real threat to those sacred sites.
A thousand years before the birth of Christianity, 
more than 1,500 years before the birth of Islam, King 
David made Jerusalem our capital, and King Solomon 
built the Temple on that Mount. Yet Israel will always 
respect the sacred shrines of all religions. In a region 
plagued by violence and by unimaginable intolerance, 
in  which  Islamic  fanatics  are  destroying  the  ancient 
treasures of civilization, Israel stands out as a towering 
beacon  of  enlightenment  and  tolerance.  Far  from 
endangering the holy sites, Israel ensures their safety. 
Because, unlike the Powers that ruled Jerusalem in the 
past, Israel respects the holy sites and the freedom of 
worship of Jews, Muslims, Christians — everyone. And 
that will never change.
Because Israel will always stay true to its values. 
Those  values  are  on  display  each  and  every  day. 
They  are  on  display  when  Israel’s  feisty  parliament 
vigorously  debates  every  issue  under  the  sun;  when 
Israel’s  Chief  Justice  sits  in  her  chair  at  our  fiercely 
independent  Supreme  Court;  when  our  Christian 
community  continues  to  grow  and  thrive  from  year 
to  year,  whereas  Christian  communities  elsewhere  in 
the Middle East are decimated; when a brilliant young 
Israeli Muslim student gives her valedictorian address 
at  one  of  our  finest  universities;  and  when  Israeli 
doctors  and  nurses  —  doctors  and  nurses  from  the 
Israeli military — treat thousands of wounded from the 
killing fields of Syria and thousands more in the wake 
of natural disasters from Haiti to Nepal. That is the true 
face of Israel. Those are the values of Israel.
In the Middle East, those values are under savage 
assault by militant Islamists, who are forcing millions 
of  terrified  people  to  flee  to  distant  shores.  Just  10 
miles from ISIS and a few hundred yards from Iran’s 
murderous proxies, Israel stands in the breach, proudly 
and  courageously  defending  freedom  and  progress. 
Israel  is  civilization’s  front  line  in  the  battle  against 
barbarism.  So  here  is  a  novel  idea  for  the  United 
Nations.  Instead  of  continuing  the  shameful  routine 
of bashing Israel, the international community should 
stand with Israel. The international community should 
stand  with  Israel  as  we  work  to  check  the  fanaticism 
at  its  doors.  It  should  stand  with  Israel  as  we  prevent 
that  fanaticism  from  even  reaching  its  doors.  The 
international  community  should  stand  with  Israel 
because  Israel  is  not  just  defending  itself.  More  than 
ever, Israel is defending the world!
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Dato’ Sri Mohd Najib bin Tun Haji 
Abdul Razak, Prime Minister of Malaysia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Malaysia. 
Dato’  Sri  Mohd  Najib  bin  Tun  Haji  Abdul  Razak, 
Prime  Minister  of  Malaysia,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Dato’  Sri  Mohd  Najib  bin 
Tun  Haji  Abdul  Razak,  Prime  Minister  of  Malaysia, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
15-29658
31/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
Mr. Razak (Malaysia): I would like to congratulate 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  on  his  election  as  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session.  His 
experience and wisdom will be an invaluable guide to 
the Assembly. The theme of this session, “The United 
Nations  at  70:  the  road  ahead  for  peace,  security  and 
human rights”, is timely. We urgently need to find new 
approaches and to rise above the political divisions and 
put people first in an age when the old ways are proving 
inadequate to the challenges we face today.
We  are  a  world  of  nation  States,  but  the  new 
conflicts and threats that imperil our peace and security 
do not recognize borders. Non-State actors, such as the 
so-called  Islamic  State,  threaten  to  destroy  sovereign 
States. They do not confine their acts of horrific cruelty 
within  official  boundaries.  Experts  in  social  media 
recruit followers in faraway countries, luring them with 
false promises and persuading many young people that 
their  barbaric  actions  will  bring  them  closer  to  God. 
That  is  sickening,  and  there  can  be  no  greater  a  slur 
on Islam, which is a religion of peace, moderation and 
justice.
But 
those  extremists  cannot  be  defeated  by 
traditional  military  means  alone.  Five  years  ago,  I 
stood  before  the  Assembly  and  called  for  a  global 
movement of moderates, a movement of all religions, of 
all countries, to marginalize extremists, to reclaim the 
centre and reshape the agenda in the direction of peace 
and pragmatism. We in Malaysia have followed up, both 
through  practical  action  and  by  building  intellectual 
capacity.  Central  to  that  effort  is  a  reaffirmation  of 
Islam’s true nature, because we must acknowledge that, 
at the moment, we are not winning the propaganda war 
against the so-called Islamic State. Its twisted narrative 
is not being countered in a way adequate to preventing 
many  misguided  people  from  joining  or  supporting  it 
from  afar.  So  it  is  more  important  than  ever  that  we 
spread awareness about authentic Islam, most especially 
when  conflicts  persist  and  people  lose  hope.  For  it  is 
there that extremism finds fertile soil. And those who 
fight for extremism, for a perversion of true Islam, are 
among the main drivers of the current migration crisis 
in the Middle East.
Islam  unequivocally  prohibits 
the  killing  of 
civilians  during  war.  It  explicitly  protects  minorities 
and  respects  those  of  other  faiths.  It  urges  the 
pursuit  of  knowledge  and  stresses  both  justice  and 
compassion. As the Prophet Muhammad said, you will 
not  enter  paradise  until  you  have  faith,  and  you  will 
not  complete  your  faith  until  you  love  one  another  as 
you  love  yourselves.  That  means  that  there  should  be 
no strife among Muslims, including between Shia and 
Sunni, who may take different paths but seek the same 
destination.
Islam condemns the destruction of historical sites 
that are part of the world’s cultural heritage. The lies 
of  the  so-called  Islamic  State  include  the  claim  that 
it  is  their  duty  to  destroy  historical  sites,  because  the 
Prophet Muhammad destroyed the idols that had been 
introduced  into  the  Kaaba  in  Mecca.  That  reasoning 
is  based  on  a  false  analogy.  The  Kaaba  was  built  by 
the  prophet  Abraham  for  the  worship  of  the  one  true 
God, and later generations added the idols. The Prophet 
Muhammad  was  commanded  to  purify  the  Kaaba  of 
those idols for its use by his followers and to bring it 
back  to  its  original  form.  The  historical  sites  being 
destroyed  by  the  so-called  Islamic  State  were  never 
used  for  the  worship  of  the  one  God  and  then  later 
desecrated, so the argument for destroying them does 
not and cannot apply. Moreover, God informs us that the 
sites that we travel to and that denote past civilizations, 
some of which were global super-Powers in their time 
but are that no longer, are signs that remind us not to be 
arrogant, but to walk the earth humbly. We must combat 
the so-called Islamic State and its warped ideology by 
explaining why their path is un-Islamic and why their 
actions are evil, theologically incoherent and a travesty 
of  Islam,  which  commands  us  to  be  knowledgeable, 
compassionate and humble.
The Malaysian Government has helped to develop 
an  important  body  of  scholarship  that  does  just  that. 
An  international  group  of  Sunni  and  Shia  scholars 
representing  a  cross-section  of  the  global  Muslim 
community  has  been  convened  in  Kuala  Lumpur.  Its 
mission  is  to  define  an  Islamic  State,  based  on  the 
continuity of Islamic religious thought through the past 
14 centuries. Such a State is nothing like the entity in 
Syria and Iraq that usurps that name. The scholars have 
unanimously  emphasized  that  an  Islamic  State  must 
deliver justice in all its forms, political, economic and 
in  the  courts,  to  its  citizens.  It  must  be  based  on  the 
objectives of sharia, or maqasid sharia, which are the 
protection and enhancement of life, religion, intellect, 
property, family and dignity.
An Islamic State must defend the various peoples 
under  its  rule  and  preserve  their  religions,  languages 
and historic sites, because God commands us, “Indeed, 
we  have  made  you  nations  and  tribes,  that  ye  may 
32/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
know one another”. God could have created us as one 
religious community, but in order to test us, He did not 
do so, and He orders us to compete with each other in 
being  virtuous.  A  true  Islamic  State,  therefore,  aids 
God’s divine intent to test humankind and urges us to 
compete in virtue, in knowledge, kindness, compassion 
and  humility,  but,  crucially,  it  does  not  coerce  us  to 
do so. Those are Islam’s true principles. The so-called 
Islamic  State  knows  nothing  of  Islam’s  noble  ideals, 
compassion or solemn duty to care for and learn about 
our  fellow  human  beings.  They  are  violating  divine 
will.  They  are  desecrating  the  name  of  our  religion 
through  their  self-proclaimed  caliphate,  to  which  no 
true Muslim will pledge allegiance. That is the message 
that we must spread to Muslims and non-Muslims. And 
I call on the Umma to rise with one voice and let the 
world ring when we say to the so-called Islamic State 
that it does not represent us.
Let  no  one  doubt  how  seriously  Malaysia  regards 
the  problem  of  militants,  both  those  who  wish  to  use 
Kuala  Lumpur  as  a  transit  point  and  those  who  wish 
to sow violence and destruction at home. Much of our 
work  on  that  problem  cannot  be  revealed  for  security 
reasons.  Some  may  be  led  to  think  that,  because 
Malaysia has not suffered a successful terrorist attack, 
we do not have national security challenges. That is not 
the case. Our tireless and ever-vigilant security forces 
have intercepted many would-be IS recruits transiting 
through Kuala Lumpur. It is because of our efforts that 
those  recruits  have  not  fallen  into  the  darkness  that 
blights Syria and Iraq. But, unfortunately, some have. 
We have identified 39 Malaysians who have travelled to 
join the so-called Islamic State, and we have arrested 
more than 100 of our citizens suspected of links to the 
so-called Islamic State.
Those threats are real. There are people who want to 
bring terror to our streets. We will not stand for it, and 
they will not succeed, for Malaysia has been and will 
always be a land where many faiths and ethnicities freely 
prosper and thrive. But we must strive harder to combat 
the  terrorist  threat  together.  Military  and  intelligence 
services need to share information and countries need 
to collaborate more and dare to pre-emptively arrest as 
necessary.  We  have  passed  legislation  to  enable  that. 
When  the  evidence  is  irrefutable,  we  will  take  action 
unhesitatingly. If our citizens’ lives are threatened by 
the possible bombing of a mall or a railway station, we 
would be negligent in our duty if we did not intervene 
before it was too late.
The year 2015 has given us examples of inspiring 
new approaches. For instance, the United States restored 
diplomatic  relations  with  Cuba.  That  was  a  historic 
achievement  and  an  exemplary  display  of  moderation 
in action. It took courage. It would not have happened 
had  those  wishing  to  cling  to  old  political  divisions 
held sway. Forward-thinking leaders put their people’s 
interests first. 
that 
Similar courage is needed to permanently address 
the 
injustice 
the  Palestinians  have  suffered 
since  1948.  Decades  of  impunity  and  the  systematic 
dehumanization  of  Palestinians  has  culminated  in 
increasing  violence,  illegal  settlements  and  violations 
of  rights.  The  frustration  and  anger  felt  by  the 
Palestinians resonates with Muslims worldwide. If the 
world continues to turn a blind eye to their suffering, 
we risk another catastrophe in the occupied Palestinian 
territory. We will also fail to uphold the right to self-
determination, which was one of the founding principles 
of the United Nations when it was created 70 years ago.
On  that  note,  given  the  violations  of  the  Al-Aqsa 
Mosque that took place on Rosh Hashanah in Jerusalem 
this year and the aggression against its worshippers three 
weeks ago, I call on the Israeli Government to live up to 
Judaism’s highest ethical principles and, in particular, 
to  the  essential  message  of  the  Torah,  as  succinctly 
expressed by the sage Hillel of the first century before 
the Common Era. When asked to describe the Torah in 
a nutshell, he said, “That which is despicable to you, do 
not do to your fellow”.
That  dictum,  known  universally  in  all  religions 
as the Golden Rule, could herald the dawn of a much 
needed  revitalized  relationship  between  Muslims  and 
Jews.  Currently  Israel  is  exerting  its  authority  over 
Islam’s third holiest site, in defiance of the jurisdiction 
of King Abdullah of Jordan, its lawful custodian. It is, 
therefore, Israel’s duty to facilitate the visits of Muslims 
from all over the world. For that is an aspiration held 
by all devout Muslims that they pray to realize in their 
lifetime.
Putting people first will not always be easy, but the 
problems  of  today  require  new  and  global  solutions. 
As  a  member  of  the  Security  Council,  Malaysia  will 
continue  to  raise  such  issues.  Reforming  the  Security 
Council so as better to reflect the realities of 2015, rather 
than those of 1945, represents a good start in building 
a new and adequately responsive global architecture.
15-29658
33/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
We in Malaysia know how much that is needed. We 
were extremely disappointed that the proposed Council 
resolution  to  set  up  an  international  tribunal  on  the 
matter of the shooting down of Malaysia Airlines Flight 
MH-17 was not adopted because the right of veto was 
used.  We  will  continue  to  seek  justice  through  other 
legal options, because we owe it to the families of those 
who perished in that outrageous crime.
But  whether  it  be  reforming  the  United  Nations, 
combating extremism or dealing with migration, greater 
mutual effort is necessary. We must look into ourselves 
and  our  own  traditions  to  create  new  mechanisms. 
We  believe  that  moderation  is  key.  Moderation  is  not 
about  being  weak.  On  the  contrary,  it  shows  courage 
and strength — the strength to push for peace and put 
the people first. It is a principle that runs through all 
civilizations and faiths. Islam embodies it in the concept 
of wasatiyyah and Confucianism as chung yung. Both 
translate as the middle path or the golden mean. It is a 
principle that we must rediscover. At the twenty-sixth 
Summit of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
in  Malaysia  in  April,  we  reaffirmed  our  commitment 
to  such  an  approach,  when  we  adopted  the  Langkawi 
Declaration on the Global Movement of Moderates.
Malaysia  stands  ready  to  share  its  experience 
of  upholding  Islam  and  marginalizing  extremism; 
of  implementing  the  objectives  of  shariah,  while 
practicing  democracy;  of  maintaining  a  multi-ethnic 
society, where different faiths coexist and prosper; and 
of  showing  that  Islam  can  not  only  succeed,  but  also 
drive  progress  and  successful  economic  development. 
As  we  cooperate  to  solve  the  scourges  of  poverty, 
hatred,  war  and  human-made  and  natural  disasters, 
which  have  given  us  today’s  refugee  crises,  we  must 
draw  from  our  spiritual  traditions  that  generosity  of 
spirit that goes beyond legal requirements. 
The  eightieth  chapter  of  the  Koran,  the  surah 
‘Abasa,  opens  with  God  criticizing 
the  Prophet 
Muhammad  —  whom  we  Muslims  regard  as  God’s 
Beloved — because he frowned and turned away when 
one  of  his  followers,  a  poor  blind  man,  interrupted 
him  to  ask  a  question  while  he  was  preaching  to 
a  rich  and  powerful  unbeliever.  If  God  promptly 
rebuked  the  Prophet  Muhammad,  how  much  more 
do  we  —  especially  we  the  leaders  of  the  Muslim 
world — stand to be rebuked by our Creator if we frown 
and turn away from our fellow Muslims, those who are 
poor  and  marginalized  and  are  now  fleeing  Syria  in 
massive numbers, causing social and economic distress 
in Europe? Are we not then partially responsible for the 
ensuing European hostility directed at Islam, the faith 
we love, and at our fellow Muslims?
On that account, over the years, Malaysia has taken 
in  numerous  individuals  fleeing  war,  starvation  and 
persecution. We currently have hundreds of thousands 
of irregular migrants, and we took in more earlier this 
year, when there was a dire humanitarian situation in 
the Andaman Sea. I am pleased to announce today that, 
in  order  to  help  alleviate  the  current  refugee  crisis, 
Malaysia will do its share and open our doors to another 
3,000 Syrian migrants over the next three years. 
New international solutions are needed to deal with 
the  migration  crises.  The  millions  fleeing  are  people, 
and they are people like us. They should be of concern 
to us all. We must respect our common humanity. We 
must  transcend  the  silos  of  race  and  faith.  When  we 
look at the images of the desperate migrants, who are 
the victims of extremists or whose lives are degraded by 
hunger and poverty, we must see them not as strangers, 
but as our brothers and sisters.
It  is  only  when  we  see  that  dreadful  picture  of 
three-year-old  Aylan  Kurdi,  who  was  washed  ashore, 
and  recognize  our  own  children  in  that  tragic  boy’s 
innocent face that we will act as our better selves. People 
around the world cry out for our help. We cannot — we 
must not — pass on by.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Malaysia for the statement he has just made.
Dato’  Sri  Mohd  Najib  bin  Tun  Haji  Abdul  Razak, 
Prime Minister of Malaysia, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák,  Deputy  Prime 
Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs 
of the Slovak Republic.
Mr.  Lajčák  (Slovakia):  During  the  past  70  years 
we,  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  have 
been  driven  by  the  noble  ideals  and  aspirations  that 
the  visionary  founders  of  the  United  Nations  laid 
down  in  its  Charter  in  1945.  At  the  same  time,  we 
have been regularly confronted with the grim realities 
of  international  affairs.  Over  its  history,  the  United 
Nations,  both  as  an  intergovernmental  Organization 
and as an actor on the world stage, has been tested by 
numerous conflicts, humanitarian crises and immense 
34/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
political and economic changes in the world, as well as 
by a lack of financial stability.
Throughout  all  those  years,  the  United  Nations 
has played a crucial role in preventing global conflicts 
and has carried out vital work around the world in its 
service  to  humankind.  From  the  outset,  the  United 
Nations has made major contributions to furthering the 
development  and  codification  of  international  law  as 
a way of regulating international relations. We should 
take a step back to see how far we have come and how 
far we need to go in meeting the challenges that exist 
across  the  three  pillars  of  the  Organization’s  work: 
peace  and  security,  development  and  human  rights. 
New  and  acute  challenges  to  the  multilateral  system 
and  new  threats  to  peace  and  security  that  transcend 
national  borders  have,  unfortunately,  emerged.  Each 
and everyone is concerned by the threats of pandemics, 
climate  change,  migration,  cybersecurity,  and  the 
multifaceted and violent nature of terrorism, including 
organized crime. There are no exceptions.
The  United  Nations  is  the  right  place  where  all 
those  threats  should  be  addressed  and  eventually 
solved. I am deeply convinced that the United Nations 
remains  strategically  positioned  to  provide  leadership 
and  effective  multilateral  responses.  A  strong  and 
effective United Nations means a better world, a more 
caring and accepting world, where nations and peoples 
of  different  religions,  cultures  and  history  can  live 
together in peace — a world where right is might, not 
might  makes  right.  I  believe  that  strengthening  the 
United Nations is the best investment for achieving the 
universal  desire  for  peace,  development,  equality  and 
justice in the world.
We  should  collectively  seek  practical  means  that 
will enable the current system to live up to its original 
purposes. That will enable the United Nations to meet 
the weighty demands that are being and will be made 
upon  it  today,  tomorrow  and  in  many  years  to  come. 
The  Member  States  are  the  owners  of  the  United 
Nations.  Every  country  —  big  or  small,  from  North 
or  South,  landlocked  or  insular  —  has  an  important 
individual  responsibility  and  role  to  play  as  a  driver 
of  the  necessary  change.  My  Government  has  always 
had  strong  confidence  in  the  United  Nations  and 
remains  ready  to  fully  shoulder  its  responsibility  and 
commitments in that regard.
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  “Transforming  Our 
World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” 
(resolution  70/1).  We  may  call  it  a  programme  for 
a  better  planet,  but  it  is  not  about  the  numbers,  but 
about changing our mindsets. It is setting up the new 
philosophy  of  existence  in  a  sustainable  future.  Its 
cornerstone is full inclusivity and zero disparity.
The global security environment has never been as 
dynamic and uncertain as today. The number of major 
civil  wars  has  almost  tripled.  The  number  of  conflict 
casualties has skyrocketed. The most worrisome fact is 
the  increased  number  of  civilian  casualties,  including 
women  and  children.  The  United  Nations  works  to 
maintain  international  peace  and  security  in  a  world 
where  security  threats  are  becoming  more  complex 
and  asymmetric,  and  conflicts  more  intractable  and 
less conducive to traditional political settlements. The 
current pattern of violence also has serious implications 
for the implementation of mandates to protect civilians 
in  the  field.  The  United  Nations  has  increasingly 
come under attack in areas where it has been present. 
Naturally,  in  such  conditions,  the  level  and  the  main 
priorities  for  United  Nations  involvement  are  being 
re-evaluated in a process of strategic reflection.
A secondary effect is the dramatic increase in the 
number  of  refugees.  The  World  Bank  estimates  that 
roughly one fifth of the world’s population is affected 
by  some  form  of  violence  or  insecurity.  The  total 
number  of  people  forcibly  displaced  by  war,  conflict 
and  persecution  rose  to  roughly  60  million  by  the 
end of 2014. On a daily basis, we are confronted with 
gruesome images in the news or directly in our streets, 
squares  and  transportation  hubs.  Forced  displacement 
has,  sadly,  become  a  deliberate  and  widespread 
tactic,  meaning  that  displacement  is  not  only  a  short-
term  humanitarian  problem,  but  also  a  long-term 
development and State-building issue.
The  current  migration  crisis  is  one  of  the  most 
complex  challenges,  one  that  we  have  to  face  up 
front  and  address  together.  It  affects  all  of  us  —  the 
countries of origin, transit and destination. It therefore 
requires  joint  responses.  Both  immediate  and  long-
term  measures  are  absolutely  necessary  to  address 
those  challenges,  which  include  illegal  migration,  the 
smuggling  of  and  trafficking  in  human  beings,  and 
gross human rights violations. 
The  scale  of  global  development  challenges  is 
unprecedented.  A  couple  of  days  ago,  in  this  very 
place  we  adopted  the  historic  document  defining  the 
We must offer our assistance to those in need and 
prevent further tragedies involving refugees. For that to 
happen, we need systematic and comprehensive action 
15-29658
35/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
and close cooperation on the part of countries, both of 
origin  and  of  destination,  that  will  bring  a  long-term 
sustainable solution. We must address the root causes 
of  migration,  namely,  conflicts,  intolerance,  violence, 
poverty and a lack of the conditions needed for a decent 
life, just to mention a few.
times  before, 
As  acknowledged  many 
the 
irreplaceable  nature  of  the  Organization  is  most 
marked  in  peacekeeping.  The  past  two  decades  have 
significantly tested the concept and conduct of United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations.  Slovakia  has  been 
an active contributor and stands ready to continue its 
cooperation with the United Nations in that field.
to  see 
I  was  particularly  pleased 
that  both 
review  panels  —  the  High-level  Independent  Panel 
on  United  Nations  Peace  Operations  and  that  of  the 
Advisory  Group  of  Experts  on  the  2015  Review  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Architecture  —  have  put  strong 
emphasis on enhanced conflict prevention, diplomatic 
engagement and mediation support in the work of the 
United  Nations  system.  Speaking  from  my  personal 
experience  as  a  mediator  in  South-Eastern  Europe,  I 
cannot but support the importance and high relevance 
of  preventive  diplomacy  across  the  conflict  spectrum 
and  as  a  part  of  broader,  nationally  owned  strategies 
to  promote  sustainable  peace  and  development.  The 
culture of conflict prevention and the conflict-resolution 
approaches  that  are  now  taking  root  in  the  United 
Nations  system  must  be  further  developed,  alongside 
more effective peacekeeping and peacebuilding.
It  has  been  15  years  since  the  adoption  of  the 
landmark  Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000), 
on women and peace and security. Yet the impacts of 
conflicts  on  women  and  children  are  still  inordinate, 
and  their  engagement  in  peace  processes  is  still 
insufficient. Gender equality is a natural precondition 
for  sustainable  development,  stability  and  peace.  As 
former Secretary-General Kofi Annan said, 
“When women thrive, all of society benefits, and 
succeeding  generations  are  given  a  better  start  in 
life.” 
The  presence  of  women  negotiators  in  high-profile 
United  Nations  peace  and  mediation  processes,  the 
role of women deployed by the United Nations to major 
conflict zones and high-stake inter-State negotiations, 
as well as in peacekeeping and peacebuilding in general, 
is irreplaceable and should continue to grow.
International  terrorism  in  its  most  violent  forms 
is  an  increasingly  alarming  threat  to  global  peace 
and  security,  and  those  forms  have  become  more 
diverse  and  fragmented  in  recent  years.  Slovakia 
strongly  condemns  all  terrorist  acts  as  criminal  and 
unjustifiable. No terrorist act should be left without an 
adequate  response  from  the  international  community. 
No  perpetrator  should  be  left  unpunished  and  no 
movement affiliated with any form of terrorism should 
be tolerated. 
Mr. Zinsou (Benin), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The United Nations has done much to set standards 
in  the  fight  against  international  terrorism  and  to 
encourage  and  help  Member  States  to  meet  them. 
The  tenth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  in  2016  will  provide  us 
with an opportunity to make our efforts in this struggle 
more efficient. It should be carried out in a multilateral 
and  coordinated  manner,  with  full  respect  for  human 
rights  and  the  rule  of  law.  We  should  also  redouble 
our  efforts  to  conclude  a  comprehensive  convention 
on international terrorism. Last but not least, Member 
States  must  strengthen  their  prevention  efforts  by 
working directly with affected communities to counter 
the  violent  extremism  and  radicalization  that  lead  to 
terrorism.  If  we  want  to  tackle  this  threat,  we  need 
to  confront  extremism  in  all  its  forms,  violent  and 
non-violent. Hate has never been the way to achieve a 
better future for anyone. 
(spoke in French) 
We  are  now  fewer  than  60  days  away  from  the 
twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change,  to  be  held  in  Paris,  where  the  international 
community  will  discuss  a  new  international  climate 
change  agreement.  The  impact  of  climate  change  is 
visible and undeniable throughout the world. Extreme 
droughts, melting of polar ice, substantive changes in 
long-term  climate  patterns  and  the  rise  in  sea  levels 
are the most glaring examples. As a result, Slovakia is 
committed  to  adopting  at  the  United  Nations  climate 
conference  this  December  a  global  binding  climate 
agreement  that  will  accelerate  the  shift  towards 
societies  and  economies  that  are  low-carbon  and 
climate-resilient worldwide.
36/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
(spoke in English)
There are various internal and external forces that 
could  drive  any  organization  to  change.  Terrorism, 
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  poverty,  disease, 
disparities  causing  socioeconomic  tensions  resulting 
in migration — all these challenges pose vital threats 
to humankind, and the only difference is how quickly 
the catastrophe strikes. The logical questions therefore 
relate  to  how  ready  we  are  to  effectively  react  to 
challenges of the twenty-first century and whether we 
can draw useful lessons from the response to Ebola as 
an international health security threat. 
Continuous  management  reform,  optimal  use  of 
modern  technologies,  and  gradual  improvement  of 
methods and structures for work that takes into account 
changes  in  the  world  are  crucial  if  an  organization 
wants  to  stay  relevant.  This  is  especially  true  for  the 
United  Nations.  The  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
Organization  is  viewed  by  many  as  a  timely  moment 
for achieving tangible progress. We need to address all 
existential  challenges  with  the  same  attention.  Act  as 
one. Struggle as one. Deliver as one. One planet, one 
humankind, one destiny.
Let our work here at the United Nations be as real, 
practical and focused as possible so that we can deliver 
good results in the spirit of cooperation and compromise. 
The  key  desired  result  should  be  a  strengthened  and 
more  effective,  streamlined  and  responsive  United 
Nations  —  a  truly  global  organization  that  is  better 
able  to  address  interconnected  and  multidimensional 
threats and challenges to international peace, security 
and development.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  quoting  Norman 
Cousins, an American political journalist and professor, 
who received the United Nations Peace Medal in 1971: 
“If the United Nations is to survive, those who 
represent it must bolster it; those who advocate it 
must submit to it; and those who believe in it must 
fight for it.” 
The  current  General  Assembly  session  will  be  a  new 
test of our commitment and ability to join forces in the 
pursuit of common goals. I am confident that under the 
leadership  of  President  Lykketoft,  we  will  be  able  to 
achieve the desired outcome.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Frank-Walter 
A/70/PV.22
Steinmeier, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Federal 
Republic of Germany.
Mr.  Steinmeier  (Germany)  (spoke  in  German; 
English text provided by the delegation): The founding 
of  the  United  Nations  70  years  ago  cast  light  on  the 
dark twentieth century. That was a pivotal moment for 
our world. It came not against a backdrop of glorious 
sunshine  and  green  pastures,  but  amid  the  ruins  of 
the  Second  World  War  with  its  more  than  50  million 
graves. As the winter of the Cold War spread its frosty 
fingers, the mothers and fathers of the United Nations 
forged the foundations of a new order — an order that is 
not perfect, and which may never be perfect, but which 
has often enough protected us from relapse into the old 
barbarism.
Today,  70  years  on,  it  is  clear  that  we  are  again 
living in turbulent times. Millions of people are gravely 
affected by wars and violence, and more than 60 million 
people have fled their homes — more than at any time 
since the end of the Second World War.
The  foundations  of  the  United  Nations  are  still 
strong,  but  the  world  order  built  on  them  has  come 
loose  from  its  moorings.  The  old  balance  of  power  is 
under pressure. Powerful new players have emerged on 
the  world  stage.  Most  serious  of  all,  non-State  actors 
are now increasingly responsible for war and violence. 
They  abide  by  no  rules  —  not  even  the  minimum 
standards enshrined in the international law of war.
We  therefore  urgently  need  new  buttresses  and 
pillars so that the order based on the United Nations can 
withstand the tempests of our times. What form could 
these new pillars take? How should the world order of 
tomorrow look?
I do not think that there is a theoretical answer to 
that question; the only answer is a practical one. Just as 
the Charter of the United Nations was adopted as a bold 
response to war and suffering, today new pillars will be 
built only if States are ready to assume responsibility 
and work together to find concrete answers to the crises 
of  our  times  —  to  poverty  and  underdevelopment,  to 
refugees  and  migration,  to  the  devastating  civil  war 
in Syria and the failing States across the arc of crisis 
from Libya to Afghanistan, to religious extremism and 
terrorism and the murderous deeds of the people who 
call themselves the Islamic State.
There  is,  however,  one  major  difference  between 
now and the situation 70 years ago. The world of today 
15-29658
37/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
is more closely interconnected than ever before. Borders 
are  becoming  blurred.  In  this  age  of  globalization, 
some say, the world has become a village. If that is so, 
then  we  are  all  neighbours,  and  I  would  advise  us  to 
act as good neighbours. We come from very different 
backgrounds.  We  have  different  traditions,  religions, 
values  and  world  views.  That  diversity  must  be 
respected.  No  world  view  takes  precedence  over  any 
other, but I can think of no culture in which people are 
unaware of what it means to be a good neighbour and in 
which people do not appreciate living in an atmosphere 
of good-neighbourliness.
Nobody  is  investing  as  much  hope  in  that  spirit 
of  good-neighbourliness  today  than  the  millions  of 
women, men and children who have fled their homes. 
My  country  has  assumed  its  responsibility  towards 
them over the past months. Since the beginning of the 
year,  we  have  taken  in  600,000  refugees.  Currently, 
upwards  of  10,000  new  refugees  are  arriving  every 
day. Those statistics show that even we cannot absorb 
such  numbers  by  ourselves  over  the  long  term.  We 
need to arrive at a European solution, together with our 
European  neighbours,  as  well  as  with  our  neighbours 
around the Mediterranean, especially Turkey.
Secondly, 
the  relief  agencies  of 
the  United 
Nations  system  —  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees,  the  World  Food 
Programme,  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works 
Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East  and 
the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian 
Affairs — all help people in need, on the spot and with no 
intermediaries. It is scandalous that those organizations 
are underfunded to the point that they have to cut food 
rations  and  medical  aid.  Accordingly,  I  met  with  the 
members of the Group of Seven and other partners the 
day before yesterday, and I am delighted to report that 
together  we  have  raised  an  additional  $1.8  billion,  of 
which  over  $100  million  will  come  from  Germany, 
intended  for  the  United  Nations  relief  agencies.  That 
will  also  help  relieve  the  burden  on  the  neighbouring 
countries in which the huge majority of refugees arrive, 
especially Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. They too need 
our help, so that one exodus does not trigger another.
But  good-neighbourliness  comprises  more  than 
just  humanity  and  compassion.  Good-neighbourliness 
also  presupposes  that  we  agree  on  joint  rules  that  we 
all  must  obey.  They  include  respecting  each  other’s 
borders  and  sovereignty.  That  fundamental  norm  is 
still  being  violated,  even  in  Europe.  The  European 
Union  unanimously  condemned  Russia’s  annexation 
of the Crimea and the actions in eastern Ukraine, and 
we responded, not only in terms of condemnation and 
isolation,  but  also  by  launching  a  political  process  to 
defuse the conflict. The Organization for Security and 
Cooperation (OSCE) has played an indispensable role 
in  that  process  from  the  outset.  We  want  to  further 
strengthen the OSCE as an institution for our common 
security  when  we  Germans  assume  its  chairmanship 
next year.
Active  political  responsibility  is  also  part  and 
parcel  of  good-neighbourliness.  A  neighbourhood  in 
which nobody looks beyond their garden gate will not 
be  worth  living  in  for  long.  People  must  be  vigilant, 
because there are many conflicts that can only be solved 
in  concert  and  by  means  of  multilateral  diplomacy. 
While that may take time and perseverance, it works.
This  past  summer,  the  five  permanent  members 
of  the  Security  Council  and  Germany  concluded  an 
agreement  with  Iran.  After  more  than  10  years  of 
negotiations, we managed to agree that Iran will never 
have an atomic bomb and that we can verify this. The 
negotiations succeeded in bringing a number of actors 
to  the  same  table,  including  Russia  and  the  United 
States  of  America.  The  negotiations  have  therefore 
proved that while neighbours may not like one another, 
they can still solve problems together. Indeed they must 
do so, if living side by side is not to become unbearable 
for them both.
The agreement that was reached has created common 
ground on which greater security can be established in 
the  Middle  East,  if  we  persevere  in  our  joint  efforts. 
However, the realities are still somewhat different. In 
Syria, in the fifth year of the war, the slaughter knows 
no end. We will only put an end to it by acting together. 
We have to halt the brutality of Al-Assad’s dictatorship, 
as evinced by its use of barrel bombs and torture. We 
have to break the control of the Islamic State. We have 
to silence the guns in Syria and provide the people who 
live there with access to humanitarian aid.
Moreover,  we  also  share  the  commons  goals  of 
preserving the territorial integrity of Syria and restoring 
conditions in which all ethnic and religious groups can 
live in peace with each other, as well as in peace with 
neighbouring  countries.  Those  are  goals  that  all  the 
actors must believe in, whatever differences may exist 
between  the  United  States  of  America  and  Russia  or 
between Saudi Arabia and Iran.
38/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
We  already  have  a  basis  for  joint  action  aimed  at 
achieving those goals, as illustrated by Security Council 
resolution  2139  (2014).  We  must  now  implement  it 
together with all the stakeholders as a first step towards 
defusing  the  conflict.  I  appeal  to  the  stakeholders  in 
Syria and Syria’s neighbours — but not only to them. 
Instead of multilateral decisions, such as those recently 
taken  by  Russia,  regarding  military  action  in  Syria, 
we  need  Russia  to  now  take  political  action  that  will 
advocate transition in Syria. That would be an important 
contribution to ending the stalemate. For that stalemate 
is a lethal one, which claims new lives every day.
At the risk of repeating myself, let me stress that 
when  dealing  with  a  humanitarian  catastrophe  as 
horrifying as the one in Syria, we are all neighbours. 
That  is  what  must  prompt  us  to  crawl  out  of  our 
diplomatic  trenches,  for  there  can  be  no  military 
solution.  Neither  supposed  eternal  truths  nor  national 
interests must be allowed to obstruct efforts to take the 
first steps in defusing the conflict in Syria.
In these turbulent times, the idea of universal good-
neighbourliness would be no more than a dream if there 
were  not  already  an  umbrella,  a  roof,  under  which 
universal  good-neighbourliness  has  been  practised 
for  decades.  Today  we  need  the  United  Nations  more 
than ever. We need a legitimate and responsive United 
Nations,  and  that  is  why  Germany  is  campaigning 
for the reform of the United Nations and the Security 
Council. That is why we are working with others on the 
major  global  projects,  on  the  ambitious  2030  Agenda 
Sustainable Development Goals (resolution 70/1), which 
has just been adopted and on the equally, if not more, 
ambitious  goals  to  combat  climate  change,  which  we 
hope to adopt together at the Conference of the Parties 
in Paris this December.
The United Nations provides a framework, a roof, 
for our global endeavours. But under that roof, the work 
must continue at many levels. We Germans believe, first, 
that the way forward lies in regional cooperation in the 
European Union and the OSCE and in cooperation with 
other regional organizations, such as the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations and the African Union, among 
others. Secondly, we are committed to re-establishing 
and stabilizing State structures across the arc of crisis 
from  Libya  to  Iraq  and  Afghanistan.  And  thirdly, 
especially  in  our  capacity  as  President  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  we  are  championing  the  fundamental 
importance of human rights. For no political order can 
endure if the people are not secure in their rights.
In conclusion, I would like to return to the founding 
of  the  United  Nations  70  years  ago.  As  magnificent 
as  that  moment  was,  it  also  inspires  a  sense  of  great 
humility  in  me  as  a  German,  because  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations was part of humankind’s response 
to  the  war  and  inhumanity  that  had  originated  in  my 
country.  In  the  seven  decades  that  have  passed  since 
that  time,  Germany  has  been  fortunate  enough  to  be 
gradually and cautiously welcomed back into the heart 
of the international community. For that, we Germans 
are grateful, but we are also aware of our responsibility. 
When Mr. Willy Brandt became the Federal Chancellor 
of Germany in 1969, he said that we Germans want to 
be a people of good neighbours. At the time, Germany 
was  still  divided,  and  those  words  were  meant  as  a 
gesture  of  reconciliation  towards  Poland,  France  and 
the other European neighbours that had suffered greatly 
at German hands.
Today, when a Syrian family in Berlin tells me their 
tale of war and expulsion, Mr. Brandt’s words take on a 
new meaning. Now the world has become smaller, but 
the crises are no fewer. It is time for us to once again 
reaffirm that we Germans want to be a people of good 
neighbours to others near and far.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean  Asselborn, 
Minister for Foreign and European Affairs and Minister 
for Immigration and Refugees of the Grand Duchy of 
Luxembourg.
Mr.  Asselborn  (Luxembourg)  (spoke  in  French): 
The United Nations was created, not to lead humankind 
to heaven but to save it from hell. These were the apt 
words  of  Mr.  Dag  Hammarskjöld,  who  served  as  the 
second Secretary-General, from 1953 to 1961, and saw 
things  for  what  they  were.  The  United  Nations  was 
created  according  to  the  people’s  will  70  years  ago, 
following  the  Second  World  War,  to  save  succeeding 
generations  from  the  scourge  of  war.  Today,  in  a 
world  beset  by  armed  conflict,  violent  extremism, 
radicalization  and  terrorism,  in  a  world  where  war, 
persecution  and  violations  of  human  rights  force 
millions  and  millions  of  people  —  men,  women  and 
children — to leave their homes and to take to the road 
in  mass  exoduses  in  search  of  safety  and  dignity,  the 
achievement  of  that  goal  seems  far  more  urgent  than 
ever.
The  choice  of  theme  for  the  seventieth  session  of 
the General Assembly, “The United Nations at 70: the 
road ahead for peace, security and human rights”, was 
15-29658
39/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
wise  indeed.  As  we  have  said  many  times  from  this 
rostrum, human rights and the rule of law are closely 
interconnected and one cannot exist without the other. 
I shall not revert again to the historic adoption of the 
post-2015  development  agenda  except  to  recall  that 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  speaking  in  San 
Francisco in June and commenting on the importance 
and scope of this universal programme, observed that 
we  were  the  first  generation  that  could  put  an  end  to 
poverty in the world and the last generation that could 
take  action  to  prevent  the  worst  consequences  of  a 
warming Earth.
That  observation  should  cause  us 
to  renew 
our  commitment  to  a  better  future  for  all,  to  show 
solidarity, to unite our forces, pursuant to the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  As  we  did  when  we  reached 
agreement on the Addis Ababa Action Agenda and the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  we  must 
spare  no  effort  to  come  together  at  the  twenty-first 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 
Paris in December, so that we can accept an ambitious 
and  binding  climate  change  agreement  that  applies 
to  all  countries  and  will  keep  the  increase  in  global 
warming to below 2°C. As President of the European 
Council,  Luxembourg  will  spare  no  effort  to  ensure 
that the Paris meeting will be a success. We must seize 
this historic opportunity.
Another  priority  project  during  Luxembourg’s 
presidency of the Council in which I will invest all my 
energies is that of migration. According to the data of 
the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees, 
today 
there  are  59.5  million  displaced  persons, 
including refugees, or more than at any time since 1945, 
at the end of the Second World War. As the Secretary-
General  noted,  the  continuous  flow  of  migrants  and 
the surge of human misery bring us face to face with 
our responsibilities as political leaders, as members of 
the international community and, obviously, as human 
beings.
In times of crisis, unfortunately, various unilateral 
vague desires and nationalist or populist reflexes seem 
to  reappear.  We  saw  that  happen  again,  tragically,  in 
the summer. But no country can face the unprecedented 
crisis  of  migrants  and  refugees  alone.  Withdrawing 
into ourselves is not the answer. We must act together, 
as  the  countries  of  origin,  transit  and  destination  of 
migrants,  and  respond  to  the  challenges  posed  by 
migrant movements in the Mediterranean, the Balkans 
and  elsewhere.  Only  if  we  firmly  anchor  our  actions 
in respect for our international commitments, shall we 
find a solution worthy of our shared values, the values 
for which the United Nations and the European Union 
were founded. 
At  the  level  of  the  European  Union  we  took  a 
first step during the past week by deciding to relocate 
within the countries of the Union 120,000 people who 
clearly  need  international  protection.  Other  decisions 
will follow shortly. The European Union will respond 
to the urgent needs of refugees by donating at least an 
additional €1 billion to the Office of the United Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees,  the  World  Food 
Programme and other such bodies. We will increase our 
assistance to Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey to deal with 
the Syrian refugee crisis. We will help Western Balkan 
countries  deal  with  the  flow  of  refugees,  including 
through pre-accession instruments. 
We  cannot  simply  deal  with  the  symptoms  of  the 
crisis. We must also tackle the root causes of migration 
and  of  refugee  flows:  development 
inequalities, 
especially in Africa; conflict and violence; the absence 
of the rule of law; persecution and violations of human 
rights;  and  impunity.  That  brings  us  back  to  the 
interconnectedness of security, development and respect 
for human rights and the need to adopt a comprehensive, 
integrated approach for the most effective application to 
development and migration of a combination of foreign 
policy,  security,  trade  and  cooperation  instruments. 
The upcoming Valletta summit on migration on 11 and 
12  November  will  provide  an  opportunity  for  us  to 
discuss  a  comprehensive  approach  to  the  question  of 
migration  with  our  African  partners,  an  opportunity 
which I welcome.
For  more 
than  four  years,  Syria  has  been 
synonymous with war, violence and exodus. One in six 
Syrians has now fled the country. One out of two has 
had to leave home. Every day 9,500 persons are added 
to the list of displaced persons. Every minute a family 
is forced to abandon everything. A whole of generation 
of children has been exposed to war, violence and death 
and deprived of fundamental freedoms, protection and 
education.  More  than  220,000  people  have  lost  their 
lives.  Indiscriminate  aerial  bombing,  the  release  of 
barrel bombs, the acts of violence and the violations of 
human rights and international law continue unabated. 
The  sieges  continue.  The  denial  of  assistance  and  the 
obstruction of humanitarian assistance persist. Crimes 
40/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
against humanity and war crimes are committed evey 
day with impunity. 
That  cannot  continue;  it  must  be  stopped.  The 
situation  is  the  Security  Council’s  responsibility  and 
it is the responsibility of all of us. The solution to the 
Syrian conflict cannot be humanitarian, nor can it be 
military.
Today, the worst thing is the indiscriminate shelling 
in an undisciplined way and without prior coordination. 
The people are waiting for us to end the carnage rather 
than to make it worse. 
A solution to the conflict can only be political. As 
we  have  said  time  and  again,  any  lasting  settlement 
requires a political transition that meets the legitimate 
aspirations of the Syrian people, in line with the Geneva 
communiqué  (S/2012/522,  annex).  Words  must  be 
followed by actions. It is time for negotiations to finally 
begin. All of us must support Special Envoy Staffan de 
Mistura in his efforts. The fate of the Syrian people and 
the stability of Syria and of its neighbours within and 
beyond the region depend on it.
In that context, I will say a word on the destructive 
barbarism of the terrorist group Daesh and the urgent 
need  to  combat  it.  The  tragic  current  situation  in 
Syria, Iraq and Libya, and its repercussions in Europe, 
demonstrates  that  the  international  community  must 
work  together  to  stop  the  advance  of  Daesh.  The  day 
before yesterday, my country participated in a summit 
meeting  organized  by  President  Obama,  which  was 
the  continuation  of  a  discussion  held  in  the  Security 
Council  one  year  ago  (see  S/PV.7272).  The  Assembly 
can  continue  to  count  on  our  country’s  support  in 
combating  Daesh  and  violent  extremism,  whether 
in  terms  of  preventing  radicalization,  exchanging 
intelligence,  countering  the  phenomenon  of  foreign 
terrorist  fighters  or  taking  measures  against  terrorist 
financing.
I must mention another tragedy at the heart of the 
tumult in the Middle East, which is the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict.  The  year  2015  was  sadly  emblematic  of  the 
impasse of the peace process, which, at present, is only 
that in name. In an environment characterized by a total 
lack of prospects and the continuing cycle of revenge, 
the idea that there might be an alternative to the two-
State solution is beginning to gain public support and 
to be applied on the ground. During my travels in the 
region last month, I was able to see that development 
for  myself.  But  it  involves  an  illusion,  and  perhaps  a 
very  dangerous  one.  The  two-State  solution  remains 
the only way forward. The conditions for that solution 
are obvious, both with respect to the 1967 borders and 
the establishment of Jerusalem as the capital of the two 
States.
The  call  to  stop  the  settlements  is  not  a  matter 
of  Israel-bashing,  as  it  was  described  by  the  Prime 
Minister  of  Israel  earlier  today.  Rather,  it  is  a  call  to 
reason, to give the resumption of negotiations a chance. 
But to save the two-State solution, we must change our 
mindset.  We  must  think  outside  the  box.  Now  is  no 
longer the time for efforts that lead nowhere. We must 
encourage a new negotiating format, broaden the circle 
of participants so that there is a greater involvement of 
Europe and especially of the Arab countries, reactivate 
the  role  of  the  Security  Council  and  set  a  reasonable 
time frame within which to conclude the negotiations. 
Israel  has  the  right  to  live  in  peace  and  security, 
but it is clear to me that Israel’s security in the long and 
medium term will depend on the creation of a sovereign 
and  democratic  State  of  Palestine,  living  alongside 
it.  The  two-State  solution  is  the  only  solution  that  is 
just  and  moral  for  both  parties.  As  of  yesterday,  the 
Palestinian flag began to fly beside those of the States 
Members of the Organization. Let us all work to make 
it become more than just a symbol.
The comprehensive solution to the Iranian nuclear 
issue,  which  the  E3+3  and  the  European  Union 
reached  after  several  years  of  negotiations  with  Iran, 
demonstrates that we should not lose faith in the power 
of diplomacy, even when tackling the thorniest of issues. 
The  international  community  has  made  considerable 
efforts in those negotiations with Iran, which also serve 
the security interests of Israel. Let us be less fatalistic. 
Israel’s right to exist is not affected by that agreement. 
In  fact,  the  opposite  is  the  case.  We  believe  that  the 
full  and  rigorous  implementation  of  the  Joint  Plan  of 
Action,  adopted  on  14  July,  will  mark  a  fundamental 
turning point for peace and security in the region.
We  could  also  say  much  more  regarding  other 
regions  in  the  world,  including  Africa,  as  well  as  my 
own  continent,  Europe,  where  a  conflict  dating  from 
another era started to affect Ukraine in February 2014 
and  is  still  ongoing.  Thanks  to  substantial  mediation 
efforts and commitment on the part of Germany, France 
and  the  European  Union;  thanks  to  close  cooperation 
between  regional  and 
international  organizations, 
first  and  foremost  among  them  the  Organization  for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe;  and  thanks  to 
15-29658
41/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
the  continuous  monitoring  of  the  United  Nations, 
especially of the human rights situation in the Crimea 
and in eastern Ukraine, the foundations of a settlement 
of the crisis in Ukraine have been established in recent 
months.  Commendable  efforts  have  also  been  made 
with respect to regional autonomy and decentralization. 
The  upcoming  regional  elections  will  be  critical.  It 
will  be  especially  vital  to  hold  them  throughout  the 
country  and,  therefore,  in  the  Donbas  region,  under 
the authority of Ukrainian law. It is essential that each 
party fully respect the commitments entered into in the 
Minsk agreements.
When we talk of Ukraine, the Middle East, South 
Sudan, the Central African Republic, Mali or Burkina 
Faso, there is one constant in all the situations, which 
is that diplomacy and the commitment to human rights 
and  the  rule  of  law  must  prevail,  if  we  are  to  solve 
today’s  profound  crises.  Our  Secretary-General  has 
fully risen to the challenge with the Human Rights Up 
Front initiative, firmly reminding us of our collective 
responsibility  to  protect  and  to  place  human  rights  at 
the centre of United Nations efforts to prevent conflict. 
To that end, all the actors and organs within the United 
Nations system must play their respective roles.
Allow  me  to  focus  on  the  particular  role  of  the 
Security  Council  and  its  members.  According  to  the 
Charter of the United Nations, the primary responsibility 
for  maintaining  peace  and 
international  security 
was  conferred  upon  the  Security  Council  to  “ensure 
prompt  and  effective  action  by  the  United  Nations”. 
The  paralysis  of  the  Council,  when  populations  are 
threatened  with  horrific  crimes,  runs  counter  to  the 
spirit  of  the  Charter.  That  is  why  we  welcome  and 
support  the  initiative  launched  by  France  aimed  at 
ensuring that the permanent members of the Security 
Council refrain from using the right of veto in cases of 
mass atrocities.
But  beyond  the  permanent  members,  each  of  the 
Member  States  must  assume  its  responsibility.  Each 
one  has  its  role  to  play,  in  working  towards  decisive 
action by the Security Council to prevent or halt mass 
atrocities.  We  therefore  encourage  all  Member  States 
to support the code of conduct as it relates to the action 
of  the  Security  Council  against  genocide,  crimes 
against humanity and war crimes. It will be officially 
launched on the occasion of the seventieth anniversary 
of the United Nations. The same code of conduct has 
been  developed  by  the  Accountability,  Coherence 
and  Transparency  group,  of  which  Luxembourg  is  a 
member. The responsibility to protect must cease to be 
an abstract principle and become a concrete reality. 
At 70 years of age, the United Nations must be able 
adapt  in  order  to  be  up  to  the  challenges  it  faces.  On 
that  account,  we  welcome  the  ongoing  reviews  that 
aim to make United Nations actions more efficient in 
its  peacekeeping  operations,  peacebuilding  or  in  the 
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution  1325 
(2000),  which  recognizes  women’s  indispensable  role 
in  peace  and  security.  Luxembourg  will  continue  to 
engage  with  the  numerous  Member  States  that  wish 
to push forward a reform of the United Nations. I am 
obviously  thinking,  in  particular,  about  a  reform  that 
would  make  the  Security  Council  more  effective, 
transparent and representative of today’s world.
Let  me  conclude  my  remarks  as  I  began  them, 
with  a  quotation.  This  one  is  from  Mahatma  Gandhi. 
I understand it as an exhortation and a reminder of the 
responsibilities  that  we  must  shoulder,  if  we  want  to 
realize the dream of the creators of our Organization, 
which is the dream of a world of peace and dignity for 
all and the dream of a better world: “You must be the 
change you wish to see in the world”.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give the floor to Her Excellency Ms. Sushma Swaraj, 
Minister for External Affairs of the Republic of India.
Ms.  Swaraj  (India)  (spoke  in  Hindi;  English 
interpretation provided by the delegation): The United 
Nations is marking its seventieth anniversary this year, 
making this session of the General Assembly a historic 
one. I hope that this year will also be historic for the 
United  Nations  in  terms  of  outcomes.  I  would  like  to 
assure  the  President  that  he  will  receive  India’s  full 
support in his efforts.
Seventy  years  ago,  the  foundations  of  the  United 
Nations  were  laid  at  the  San  Francisco  Conference, 
in  a  city  on  the  west  coast  of  this  country.  India  was 
one  of  the  signatory  countries  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  although  at  that  time  we  were  not 
independent. We obtained our independence two years 
later. When the United Nations was established, a rather 
diminutive-looking man with the powerful weapon of 
non-violence was writing the final act in a struggle that 
would become a symbol of hope for the colonized and 
the oppressed everywhere. I am grateful that the United 
Nations has proclaimed the birthday of this extraordinary 
man as the International Day of Non-Violence. It is a 
pleasing coincidence that tomorrow is 2 October, and 
42/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
that we will be celebrating his birthday then. Mahatma 
Gandhi said, “The difference between what we do and 
what  we  are  capable  of  doing  would  suffice  to  solve 
most  of  the  world’s  problems”.  His  message  is  most 
fitting in the context of the United Nations.
The seventieth year of any human being’s life is a 
milestone from which to look back and reflect on what 
one has achieved and what one has lost. Similarly, for 
people  associated  with  an  institution,  the  seventieth 
year  provides  an  opportunity  to  analyse  whether  the 
institution  has  fulfilled  its  purpose  and  achieved 
the  goals  set  for  it  at  its  establishment.  Today  we 
need  to  ask  ourselves  whether  we  have  fulfilled  the 
purpose  and  achieved  the  goals  for  which  the  United 
Nations  was  established  70  years  ago.  When  I  ask 
myself  that  question,  I  receive  an  affirmative  answer 
for some questions and a negative one for others. For 
example,  the  United  Nations  has  been  successful  in 
preventing a third world war, assisting decolonization 
and  dismantling  apartheid.  It  has  been  successful  in 
combating  global  epidemics,  reducing  global  hunger 
and promoting democracy and human rights.
Yet, when we ask ourselves whether we have been 
able to prevent conflicts taking place in various parts 
of the world, the answer is “no”. If we ask whether we 
were able to find permanent solutions to those conflicts, 
the answer is “no”. If we ask whether we were able to 
show  the  path  of  peace  to  a  world  which  is  treading 
the  path  of  violence,  the  answer  is  “no”.  According 
to  those  parameters,  the  United  Nations  appears  to 
be  ineffective  at  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security,  an  institution  that  has  failed  to  effectively 
address new challenges in that area.
Today,  the  world  is  ravaged  by  war  on  three 
continents,  with  the  Security  Council  powerless  or 
unwilling to stem the flow of blood. Traditional solutions 
that  rely  on  force  have  only  exacerbated  problems. 
We must ask ourselves if we have the political will to 
craft  alternatives  to  conflict  and  to  pursue  them  with 
commitment and single-minded dedication. Nowhere is 
such a goal more important than in peacekeeping. Under 
the blue flag, men and women are constantly working 
to prevent conflict, protect civilians and sustain peace 
processes. With 180,000 peacekeepers deployed so far, 
India has been the largest contributor to international 
security  provided  by  the  United  Nations.  Even  today, 
about  8,000  Indian  military  and  police  personnel  are 
participating in 10 peacekeeping missions, operating in 
highly challenging environments.
India remains committed to continuing its support 
to United Nations peacekeeping operations and even to 
enhancing its contributions, as announced by our Prime 
Minister  at  the  leaders  summit  on  peacekeeping.  Our 
new contributions will cover all aspects of peacekeeping: 
personnel, enablers and training. At the same time, no 
dilution of the cardinal principles of peacekeeping must 
occur. The fact that troop-contributing countries have 
no role in the formulation of mandates, which are often 
amended without consultation, is a matter of concern. 
That is a clear violation of Article 44 of the Charter of 
the United Nations. We also believe that peacekeeping 
operations cannot be a substitute for political solutions, 
a fact that the High-Level Independent Panel on Peace 
Operations underscored.
As  we  mark  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United Nations, I take this opportunity to pay tribute to 
the more than 3,300 peacekeepers, including 161 from 
India, who have made the ultimate sacrifice. We stand 
ready  to  contribute  to  the  memorial  wall  for  United 
Nations  peacekeepers,  which  was  approved  by  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session.
The  safety  of  our  peacekeepers,  the  security  of 
our nations, and indeed the future of the international 
community  itself  now  depend  on  how  we  respond  to 
the greatest threat that we face today: terrorism. It is a 
threat that India has lived with for more than a quarter 
of a century, and one that was tragically brought home 
to  this  very  city  in  the  autumn  of  2001.  Since  then, 
we have not adequately countered the proliferation of 
terrorist  acts,  the  rise  of  extremist  ideologies  and  the 
impunity of States that back terrorism.
Only  organized  international  action  can  defeat 
international  terrorism.  The  world  must  demonstrate 
zero tolerance for terrorists who kill and maim innocent 
civilians and base its action on the principle of prosecute 
or extradite. The international community must make 
countries that provide financing to terrorists and safe 
havens for their training, arming and operations pay a 
heavy price.
Equally 
the  establishment  of  an 
international  legal  regime,  under  a  comprehensive 
convention on international terrorism, can no longer be 
held  up.  Nineteen  years  ago,  in  1996,  India  proposed 
such a regime at the United Nations, but the Member 
States  have  been  unable  to  adopt  it  and  have  become 
mired in the issue of definition. We have to understand 
that  no  such  distinction  exists  as  good  terrorists  and 
bad  terrorists,  and  that  terrorism  cannot  be  linked 
important, 
15-29658
43/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
to  any  religion.  A  terrorist  is  a  terrorist,  and  anyone 
who  commits  crimes  against  humanity  cannot  have 
a  religion.  Therefore,  I  appeal  to  everyone  to  come 
together during this seventieth anniversary year of the 
United Nations and to pledge to unanimously adopt a 
comprehensive convention on international terrorism.
While  on  the  subject  of  terrorism,  I  take  this 
opportunity to share the challenges that we face in our 
ties with Pakistan. None of us can accept that terrorism 
is a legitimate instrument of statecraft. The world shared 
our outrage at the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, in which 
citizens  of  many  nations  were  helplessly  butchered. 
That the mastermind behind the attack is walking free 
is  an  affront  to  the  entire  international  community. 
Not only have past assurances in this regard not been 
honoured,  but  new  cross-border  terrorist  attacks  have 
taken place recently, and two terrorists from across the 
border have been captured alive. We all know that these 
attacks  are  meant  to  destabilize  India  and  legitimize 
Pakistan’s illegal occupation of parts of the Indian State 
of Jammu and Kashmir and its claim to the rest of it.
Let me use this occasion to spell out our approach 
clearly. India remains open to dialogue but finds talks 
and terrorism to be incompatible. Yesterday, the Prime 
Minister  of  Pakistan  proposed  what  he  termed  a  new 
four-point  peace  initiative.  I  would  like  to  respond 
to  this.  We  do  not  need  four  points.  We  need  just 
one — give up terrorism and let us sit down and talk. 
This  will  solve  all  the  problems.  That  was  precisely 
what  was  discussed  and  decided  by  the  two  Prime 
Ministers in Ufa this July. Let us hold talks, at the level 
of  national  security  advisers,  on  all  issues  connected 
to  terrorism  and  arrange  an  early  meeting  of  our 
Directors-General  of  Military  Operations  to  address 
the situation on the border. If the response is serious and 
credible,  India  is  prepared  to  address  all  outstanding 
issues  through  bilateral  dialogue.  Even  as  we  counter 
the menace of terrorism, we must acknowledge that real 
social  and  economic  progress  remains  a  critical  goal. 
The  elimination  of  basic  human  want  leads  almost 
invariably to more peaceful societies, as is evidenced 
by a map of the conflicts that engulf parts of the world.
Just a few days ago, we adopted the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1),  with 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  at  its  core.  They 
constitute  a  blueprint  that  is  more  comprehensive 
the  Millennium  Development 
and  holistic 
Goals.  However, 
implementation 
will  require  political  resolve  and  an  inclination  to 
their  successful 
than 
share  both  technology  and  financial  resources,  while 
simultaneously improving our delivery mechanisms. As 
a woman and an elected Member of Parliament, it has 
been my firm conviction that there is a shortcut to real 
social  change,  and  that  is  empowering  the  girl  child. 
Our  Government’s  policy  and  our  Prime  Minister’s 
programme of Educate the Girl Child to Empower Her 
was conceived with that vision. 
Our  future  rests  on  our  building  a  sustainable 
planet for our children and our children’s children. As 
we prepare to meet in two months’ time, in Paris, the 
world expects us to deliver an ambitious and credible 
agreement on climate change. We have a duty to take 
common action, but in doing so we must keep in mind 
the  larger  historical  contributions  of  some  and  the 
differentiated  responsibilities  of  others.  If  Mahatma 
Gandhi were among us today, he would ask if we have 
used  the  resources  of  the  planet  for  our  needs  or  for 
our greed. He would also ask if adapting our lifestyle 
choices  and  reducing  extravagant  consumption  would 
help  us  to  correct  our  course.  For  this  reason,  the 
agreement  in  Paris  needs  to  be  comprehensive  and 
equitable, while delivering concrete action. Developing 
countries  can  do  more  if  they  are  enabled  in  their 
efforts  by  support  from  developed  countries  in  the 
areas  of  finance,  technology  transfer  and  capacity-
building. India is and always has been a willing partner 
in global efforts towards this goal. We will play our due 
role in reaching a meaningful, equitable and effective 
agreement in Paris.
India’s reverence for the environment is based on 
our traditions, which have always held nature as sacred. 
The health of the planet is tied to our own well-being, 
and  it  is  this  holistic  approach  that  guided  us  in  our 
call for the First International Day of Yoga, which was 
celebrated  with  much  fervour  in  192  countries  of  the 
world,  as  well  as  in  this  hallowed  institution.  I  thank 
the  international  community  for  its  enthusiasm  and 
support in this regard. I hope that the seed that has been 
planted will grow into a magnificent tree.
I  also  congratulate  States  for  their  prompt  action 
in tackling the threat of global epidemics. By linking 
our efforts, we have managed to eradicate smallpox and 
nearly eradicate polio. HIV/AIDS has been controlled 
and, more recently, the Ebola outbreak was contained, 
although not before an unacceptably high price in lives 
had  been  paid.  The  Ebola  epidemic  is  an  important 
example  of  how  national  action  and  international 
support can resolve a global crisis. We are proud that 
44/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
India  played  its  due  part  in  these  efforts.  Inspired  by 
our successes, we must redouble our efforts to eradicate 
other diseases, whether it be tuberculosis or malaria.
solution can be reached to the Palestinian question. We 
have also qualitatively upgraded our relations with all 
the major Powers.
Natural  disasters  and  man-made  conflicts  also 
deserve  our  coordinated  response.  In  recent  months, 
the international community has been found wanting in 
its response to the refugee crisis caused by the conflict 
situations  in  Syria,  Iraq  and  Libya.  What  is  needed 
is  a  swift  response  backed  by  political  will.  Our  own 
response to humanitarian crises in our neighbourhood 
has  been  quick,  responsive  and  holistic.  Whether  in 
Nepal  or  Yemen,  India  has  emerged  as  a  net  security 
provider,  assisting  not  only  our  nationals  but  those 
of  other  countries  that  sought  our  help.  India  will  be 
hosting  the  first  Asian  Ministerial  Conference  on 
Disaster Risk Reduction in November 2016, when the 
topic will be the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk 
Reduction.
Like  the  United  Nations,  India  has  walked  a 
long  way  these  past  70  years.  As  1.25  billion  of  my 
countrymen  would  attest,  we  have  done  so  happy 
in  the  knowledge  that  our  democratic  traditions  are 
deeply embedded. Nonetheless, every once in a while, 
there  is  a  need  for  transformative  change  —  one  that 
can reinvigorate the nation and redeem its spirit. Ever 
since  the  new  Government  of  Prime  Minister  Modi 
took office a year and a half ago, we have committed 
ourselves to this renewal. It is one that has enabled India 
to  play  its  rightful  role  in  international  affairs,  while 
also  becoming  the  fastest-growing  major  economy  in 
the  world.  The  driving  force  of  this  comprehensive 
renewal has been premised on the motto of sabka saath, 
sabka vikas, which places emphasis on the welfare of 
all our people.
At  the  same  time,  we  have  started  to  reach  out 
enthusiastically to all our partners in the international 
community.  Our  efforts  have  focused,  first  and 
foremost,  on  our  immediate  neighbourhood  and  the 
results have been truly transformational. We have also 
reached out to our extended neighbourhood, renewing 
ancient  linkages  and  constructing  modern  economic 
partnerships, including, most recently, a summit with 14 
Pacific island nations. Our Act East policy has replaced 
the  previous  one,  Look  East,  with  a  more  vigorous 
and  proactive  engagement  in  an  economically  vibrant 
region, and complements our Link West engagement.
We 
to 
remain  committed 
the  Middle  East 
peace  process,  which  is  key  to  preventing  further 
radicalization of the region. We continue to hope that a 
Africa  is  a  region  with  which  we  have  historical 
bonds,  a  solidarity  born  out  of  a  common  struggle 
against  colonialism  and  a  belief  in  a  future  of  shared 
prosperity. Later this month we will host the third India-
Africa Forum Summit, the first time that the leaders of 
all 54 African countries have been invited.
India 
is  aware 
of  its  responsibility,  and  its  support  for  global, 
non-discriminatory and verifiable nuclear disarmament 
is undiminished.
As  a  nuclear-weapon  State, 
As  with  nations,  so  it  is  with  institutions.  Only 
periodic  renewal  can  provide  an  organization  with 
meaning and purpose. In a world that continues to be 
dominated by wealthy and influential nations, the United 
Nations notion of sovereign equality has permitted the 
developing  world  to  question  some  unfair  norms.  But 
it  has  not  permitted  a  fundamental  challenge  to  the 
inequity of a system built for a world that longer exists. 
If  we  are  to  preserve  the  centrality  and  legitimacy  of 
the  United  Nations  as  the  custodian  of  global  peace, 
security and development, the most urgent and pressing 
need is reform of the Security Council. This is the need 
of  the  hour.  How  can  we  have  a  Security  Council  in 
2015  that  still  reflects  the  geopolitical  architecture 
of  1945?  How  can  we  have  a  Security  Council  that 
still  does  not  give  Africa  and  Latin  America  seats  as 
permanent members?
We  must  include  more  developing  nations  in  the 
decision-making  structures  of  the  Security  Council. 
And we must change the way it does business by doing 
away  with  outdated  and  non-transparent  working 
methods. Giving it more legitimacy and balance would 
restore  its  credibility  and  equip  it  to  confront  the 
challenges of our times. We are happy that during the 
past  year,  under  the  leadership  of  Their  Excellencies 
Mr. Sam Kutesa and Mr. Courtenay Rattray, we have 
achieved what we had been unable to do in two decades 
of  discussions  —  a  text  for  negotiations  unanimously 
adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  as  decision  69/560. 
That  first  but  critical  step  must  be  a  springboard  for 
action at this historic seventieth session.
For  an  organization  such  as  the  United  Nations, 
70 years has a unique significance. It is an occasion for 
revitalization and for renewal. I invite everyone in this 
Hall to contemplate the idea of the United Nations as 
15-29658
45/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
a banyan tree. In the eastern tradition, the banyan tree 
connotes wisdom, and yet is non-judgemental and all-
encompassing. It has not one trunk but many, growing 
outwards,  each  connected  to  the  others  as  well  as  to 
the  sky  and  the  earth.  Its  expansive  branches  provide 
shade and relief, and its base has always been a place 
for discussion and debate.
At 70, unlike the men and women who might have 
planted its seed, the banyan is still young. But without 
constant  regeneration  and  expansion,  it  withers  away. 
That could be the fate that awaits the United Nations. 
Either we can take this historic opportunity to renew this 
critical institution or we can condemn it to irrelevance 
and  tragic  withering.  We  could  easily  lose  ourselves 
in a labyrinth of our own creation, but if we seize the 
day,  we  will  see  a  United  Nations  growing  to  its  full 
potential,  a  United  Nations  that  can  reduce  the  gap 
between what it does and what it is capable of doing, a 
mighty banyan tree providing the canopy for a peaceful 
and  prosperous  humankind.  I  end  my  statement  with 
the hope that the United Nations will grow into such a 
banyan tree.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Ramtane Lamamra, Minister of 
State and Minister for Foreign Affairs and International 
Cooperation  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Algeria.
Mr.  Lamamra  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf of Algeria, I would like to warmly congratulate 
Mr. Mogens Lykketoft on his election to the presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session. 
I  would  also  like  express  my  thanks  and  gratitude 
to  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  the  Assembly’s  President  at  its 
previous  session,  for  the  many  achievements  realized 
during his presidency, which we hope to build on and 
strengthen.
The 
current 
session 
coincides  with 
the 
commemoration  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
creation  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  taking  place  at 
a  time  when  the  international  community  is  facing 
multiple challenges and opportunities that are the result 
of  seven  decades  of  profound  changes  and  collective 
efforts,  which  have  had  their  share  of  both  successes 
and  failures.  Peace  and  stability  have  been  restored 
in many parts of the world that were once ravaged by 
destructive  wars;  people  have  liberated  themselves 
from the yoke of colonialism in Africa, Asia and Latin 
America;  and  the  world  has  seen  a  qualitative  leap 
forward and significant development in the past seven 
decades. 
That situation is in sharp contrast to the colonialism 
and  foreign  occupation  that  persist  in  some  regions, 
along  with  the  worsening  poverty  and  hunger  that 
remain  the  biggest  challenge  for  the  United  Nations 
today. There are also new threats posed by terrorism, 
organized  crime,  drug 
trafficking  and  human 
trafficking. In this context, I would be remiss if I failed 
to mention the images that the media have brought us of 
the massive influx of refugees into Europe as a result of 
the war- and crisis-induced humanitarian tragedies that 
unquestionably denote a collective failure to deal with 
conflicts  and  their  consequences  in  several  regions, 
particularly the Middle East.
The  outcome  document  of  the  Summit  on  the 
post-2015  development  agenda  (resolution  70/1),  held 
a  few  days  ago,  has  both  confirmed  that  failure  and 
at  the  same  time  renewed  the  universal  commitment 
to  tackling  the  challenges  facing  humankind  on  the 
economic,  social,  security  and  environmental  fronts, 
above all the need to unite our efforts to fight poverty 
and  take  new  approaches  to  advancing  development 
and  improving  the  living  conditions  of  people,  who 
should be the focus of those efforts. At the same time, 
scarce  natural  resources  must  be  safeguarded  and  the 
environment protected.
From  this  rostrum  and  at  this  pivotal  meeting, 
Algeria once again affirms the validity of the purposes 
and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  renews  its  commitment  to  continuing  to 
work to ensure the triumph of the values that unite us 
and that have made the United Nations a mirror of the 
concerns  of  the  peoples  of  the  world,  their  ambitions 
and hopes.
I would like to stress once again the need to continue 
United  Nations  reform,  adapting  its  mechanisms  and 
modernizing its tools, to enable it to fulfil its mission 
more  efficiently.  It  is  a  question,  on  the  one  hand,  of 
reaffirming  the  central  role  of  the  General  Assembly 
as  the  conceiver  and  mouthpiece  of  international 
cooperation for development and the implementation of 
its resolutions and approaches, and, on the other hand, 
of the necessary reform of the Security Council dictated 
by the new challenges and threats to international peace 
and  security.  This  principal  organ  no  longer  mirrors 
the  composition  of 
international  community, 
particularly the African continent.
the 
46/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
Algeria  is  participating  in  this  historic  session 
having  achieved,  before  the  deadline,  most  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  adopted  at  the  2000 
Summit.  Under  the  programme  of  the  President  of 
the  Republic,  Mr.  Abdelaziz  Bouteflika,  Algeria  has 
implemented  an  ambitious  development  policy  and 
development  plans  whose  purpose  is  to  relaunch  the 
economic  growth  and  to  provide  for  the  social  needs 
of  all  citizens,  while  continuing  to  strengthen  the 
rule of law, independence of the judiciary, freedom of 
expression and equal opportunity for men and women.
Because of its central location in the Maghreb and 
Sahel areas and guided by the principles of its foreign 
policy, Algeria has continued to work for peace, security 
and  harmony  in  its  immediate  neighbourhood  and  to 
bring political and economic support to its neighbours 
so  as  to  strengthen  Maghreb  and  African  integration, 
convinced that this is an investment for the future of all 
and for the establishment of peace and stability at the 
regional  and  international  levels.  That  is  reflected  in 
the steady approach of the international mediation team 
in Mali, led by Algeria, that resulted in the conclusion 
of  a  comprehensive  agreement  for  peace  and  national 
reconciliation.  We  encourage  all  parties  signatory  to 
this  agreement,  and  more  generally,  all  political  and 
social  forces  in  Mali,  and  we  invite  the  international 
community,  particularly  donor  countries,  to  endorse 
this process and to back it politically and financially in 
an ongoing manner.
the 
Algeria,  which  has  stood  by 
fraternal 
Libyan  people  since  the  outbreak  of  the  crisis  in  that 
neighbouring country, spares no effort to help it restore 
peace  and  stability  and  maintain  its  national  unity. 
Algeria renews its support for the efforts of the United 
Nations in Libya to achieve an inclusive, comprehensive 
solution that involves all stakeholders in Libya with a 
view to immediately creating a Government of national 
accord. 
In  that  regard,  the  efforts  of  the  African  Union 
in  conflict  resolution  and  peacekeeping  in  Africa  are 
noteworthy.  Indeed,  the  African  Union  has  several 
achievements to its credit, with the continent contributing 
over 45 per cent of the world’s peacekeeping personnel. 
I  would  recall  that  the  latest  African  summit,  held  in 
Johannesburg,  took  important  decisions  reflecting 
the  will  of  the  countries  and  peoples  of  the  continent 
to  work  towards  finding  African  solutions  to  African 
problems.
In  Western  Sahara,  after  a  quarter  century  of 
ceasefire  between  the  two  parties  to  the  conflict,  the 
Kingdom  of  Morocco  and  the  Frente  Polisario,  and 
the adoption of the United Nations-African Settlement 
Plan,  the  Saharan  people  continue  to  live  under 
occupation and the resultant suffering. Procrastination 
and  attempts  to  flee  responsibilities  are  ongoing  and 
have  prevented  the  achievement  of  a  solution  to  this 
conflict,  thereby  undermining  the  credibility  of  the 
United Nations.
Algeria,  which  supports  with  conviction  and 
firmness the right of the Saharan people to determine 
their  destiny  in  complete  freedom,  appreciates  the 
sustained  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  and  his 
Personal  Envoy,  Mr.  Christopher  Ross.  We  call  on 
the  United  Nations  to  set  a  firm  date  for  the  holding 
of  a  referendum  in  accordance  with  relevant  General 
Assembly  and  Security  Council  resolutions,  as  was 
expressly  requested  by  the  African  Summit  in  June 
2015. Algeria will spare no effort to assist the parties 
to  the  conflict  and  the  United  Nations,  with  a  view 
to  an  early  implementation  of  the  solution  for  which 
the  fraternal  Saharan  people  and  other  peoples  of  the 
Maghreb have been insistently calling.
With  this  same  conviction  of  the  necessity  for 
settling  disputes  by  peaceful  means,  Algeria  has 
been  following  with  great  attention  and  concern  the 
developments of the situations in Syria and Yemen, and 
the suffering of the two fraternal peoples in those two 
countries.  Algeria  therefore  urges  the  protagonists  to 
commit resolutely to the search for a peaceful solution to 
the crises in their countries. There is no other solution.
Algeria notes with satisfaction the growing global 
awareness of the need to fight international terrorism 
and to address its root causes and repercussions. That 
is  why  Algeria  calls  for  comprehensive  approaches 
to  fighting  transnational  organized  crime,  including 
human  trafficking  and  drug  trafficking.  We  call  for 
drying up the sources of funding for terrorist groups, 
especially by prohibiting and criminalizing the payment 
of ransoms. In this context, Algeria recently organized 
an international conference on deradicalization, whose 
recommendations  stressed  the  need  to  promote  the 
values   of tolerance and moderation.
Algeria,  which  paid  a  heavy  price  to  regain  its 
sovereignty  and  rejoin  the  community  of  nations, 
understands  the  true  value  of  the  heroic  struggle  of 
the  Palestinian  people  to  recover  their  national  rights 
15-29658
47/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
and  shares  their  hopes  as  the  Palestinian  flag  is  now 
flying at Headquarters for the first time. This symbolic 
victory, which came after the international recognition 
of the Palestinian State, supports a just and definitive 
solution to the Palestinian issue designed to ensure the 
creation of a sovereign State, with East Jerusalem as its 
capital.
Mr. Kurz (Austria): Seventy years ago, the United 
Nations  was  founded  as  the  collective  answer  to  war 
and  genocide,  which  had  cost  the  lives  of  millions  of 
people.  The  principal  idea  of  the  United  Nations  was 
to prevent war, to uphold respect for international law 
and human rights, and to promote social and economic 
progress.
Given the importance of the issue of climate change 
and its impact in the economic, social and environmental 
spheres, and even in political and security concerns, we 
express  the  hope  that  the  outcome  of  the  twenty-first 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to 
be held soon in Paris, will meet the ecological challenges 
that now threaten to make countries and entire regions 
disappear and that seriously jeopardize life on Earth.
I must also say that we need to admit that in spite 
of  the  achievements  we  have  accomplished  together 
at  the  United  Nations  and  beyond,  the  instruments 
and  procedures  set  up  by  the  founding  fathers  seven 
decades ago no longer meet the requirements of the day, 
nor  the  aspirations  of  the  world’s  population,  which 
now exceeds 7 billion people. In other words, the new 
and multiple challenges generated by globalization and 
the  profound  changes  and  transformations  that  have 
affected  international  relations  for  decades  demand 
that  we  make  bold  reforms  capable  of  conferring  the 
credibility and transparency needed by the multilateral 
system of cooperation.
of 
the 
for 
The 
commemoration 
anniversaries 
of  institutions,  like  people’s  birthdays,  are  ideal 
opportunities 
introspective  assessments  and 
forward-looking  projections.  Therefore,  we  harken 
back to the historic results of the twenty-ninth session 
of our Assembly, held in 1974 under the presidency of 
Mr.  Abdelaziz  Bouteflika,  on  South  Africa,  Palestine 
and  the  new  international  economic  order,  to  express 
the hope that the current session will derive inspiration 
from  that  memorable  time  in  our  Organization’s  life 
and  will  rise  to  meet  the  current  challenges  with  a 
qualitative, collective and courageous leap forward to 
promote a humankind at peace with itself and free from 
fear and want. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sebastian  Kurz,  Federal 
Minister for Europe, Integration and Foreign Affairs of 
the Republic of Austria.
I  myself  have  not  lived  through  even  half  of  this 
period.  Nevertheless,  I  believe  that  today,  70  years 
later,  we  all  have  to  ask  ourselves  if  we  have  really 
succeeded.  We  are  facing  a  record  high  of  over  50 
violent  conflicts,  stretching  from  Syria  and  Iraq  to 
Yemen,  the  Sudan  and  Somalia.  We  are  facing  a  rise 
in  radicalization  and  extremism.  And  we  are  facing 
the highest number of refugees since the Second World 
War.  Nearly  60  million  people  worldwide  are  on  the 
move as refugees or internally displaced persons. Four 
million of them are Syrians who have left their country, 
fleeing from civil war and terror. Every day over 40,000 
people flee their homes in search of peace, security or 
a new life. This challenge is not limited to one region 
or to one continent. It is a global challenge. It concerns 
the Mediterranean region, but also South Asia and large 
parts of Africa.
Europe  is  currently  also  witnessing  a  huge  flow 
of refugees, in particular from the wider Middle East. 
These global refugee flows pose serious problems for 
the  countries  of  origin  and  transit,  as  well  as  for  the 
countries of destination. But all affected countries and 
regions have one thing in common: no country and no 
region can solve this crisis alone, and no single measure 
can  provide  a  solution.  We  need  a  comprehensive 
approach  covering  all  the  refugee  routes,  including 
the countries of origin, transit and destination. Which 
organization, if not the United Nations, can provide the 
basis  for  this  collective  action?  Which  organization, 
if  not  the  United  Nations,  can  contribute  to  this 
comprehensive approach?
If  we  want  to  reduce  the  number  of  refugees,  we 
have to focus our efforts on three key areas. 
First,  we  have  to  confront  the  root  causes  in  the 
countries  of  origin:  civil  wars  and  massive  human 
rights  violations  and  terrorism.  In  this  context,  we 
have to intensify our fight against Daesh and terrorist 
groups. They must be neutralized and defeated. In the 
case of Syria, it also means that we have to push harder 
for  a  closing  of  ranks  in  the  region.  We  will  be  able 
to achieve meaningful progress only if major regional 
48/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
players, such as Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Egypt and Iran, 
act  in  concert.  And  finally,  it  means  that  we  have  to 
bring  all  relevant  parties  to  the  Syrian  civil  war  to 
the table, as United Nations Special Envoy Staffan de 
Mistura is trying to do. Let me be clear: that does not 
mean that the current political leadership of Syria can 
be part of a long-term solution. It has brought endless 
harm to the people of Syria. But if one wants to make 
peace, one does not talk only to one’s friends.
The  second  point  is  that  we  need  more  unity  at 
the international level. Huge efforts have already been 
made,  but  the  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States 
can  and  should  do  more.  We  will  be  able  to  make  a 
difference  only  if  we  make  it  possible  for  the  United 
States and Russia to pull in one direction. The Security 
Council has to demonstrate unity.
We  need  a  mandate  not  only  for  action  against 
Daesh, but also for the protection of civilians. It should 
include  the  establishment  of  safe  zones  and  buffer 
zones,  which  would  increase  people’s  security  and 
make  access  to  humanitarian  aid  much  easier.  Action 
by the Security Council would also make it possible for 
many countries to have the opportunity to join in and 
offer their support. Our position is clear: Austria would 
stand  ready  to  contribute  to  such  a  United  Nations 
peace operation.
Thirdly, we need a change of system. A system that 
allows only the fittest or those rich enough to pay the 
smugglers to reach a safe haven like Europe is wrong. 
The  current  system  is  in  fact  indirectly  sponsoring 
smugglers.  Since  2000  more  than  24,000  migrants 
and  refugees  have  died  on  their  way  to  Europe.  The 
pictures of refugees drowned in the Mediterranean Sea 
or  suffocated  in  trucks  will  continue  to  haunt  us.  We 
therefore need a change of system. We need to create 
the possibility for refugees to apply for asylum in their 
countries  of  origin  or  neighbouring  countries.  The 
United Nations could help in the establishment of such 
reception and information centres, which would allow 
resettlement programmes to be introduced.
In my opinion, trafficking in human beings is one 
of the worst crimes. We should consider systematic and 
large-scale smuggling a crime against humanity, so that 
the perpetrators can finally be brought to justice.
There  is  another  crisis  area  we  should  not  forget 
about. Last year, like most of those present, I referred 
to the Russian-Ukrainian conflict as probably the most 
serious  challenge  to  peace  and  security  in  Europe 
(see  A/69/PV.15).  One  year  later,  we  still  do  not  see 
enough positive development. The conflict is ongoing, 
the  number  of  deaths  has  even  increased,  and  the 
socioeconomic consequences are huge.
There is only one way ahead: a peaceful settlement 
based  on  dialogue  and  negotiation.  We  must  find  a 
solution  that  provides  for  a  free  and  stable  Ukraine 
enjoying  strong  ties  with  both  the  European  Union 
and the Russian Federation. In this respect the Minsk 
agreement  is  and  remains  the  only  option  on  the 
table.  There  is  no  alternative  to  implementing  that  
agreement.  All  parties  have  to  live  up  to  their 
commitments.  In 
let  me  underline 
the  crucial  work  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  is  doing.  The  Special 
Monitoring  Mission  and  the  Trilateral  Contact  Group 
play a unique role for a peaceful settlement. The OSCE 
deserves our full support, and Austria will do its utmost 
to contribute to its work, especially during our OSCE 
chairmanship in 2017. 
that  context, 
All  these  conflicts  show  that  70  years  after  its 
establishment, we need the United Nations more than 
ever.  However,  in  some  areas  the  United  Nations  is 
pushed  to  its  breaking  point.  It  urgently  needs  to  be 
reformed in order to be prepared for the future. Which 
is the way forward? 
First, we have to remind ourselves of the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
The  Charter  is  and  remains  our  backbone.  Failure  is 
guaranteed if we do not respect it. 
Secondly,  we  have  to  look  at  the  functioning  of 
the  main  bodies.  We  need  a  Security  Council  that  is 
united  and  can  act  swiftly.  We  therefore  welcome  the 
efforts to improve the Council’s work, and we support 
the  initiatives  to  suspend  the  use  of  the  veto  in  cases 
of mass atrocities. In order to be able to address global 
challenges, we all need a United Nations that is capable 
of  taking  action  and  a  Security  Council  that  is  more 
representative, accountable and transparent.
We highly value the fact that one of the headquarters 
of the United Nations is in Vienna, and we will continue 
to support it actively. We remain committed to act as a 
place for international dialogue, such as the Iran nuclear 
talks that took place in Vienna this year. 
We will also continue to contribute to all diplomatic 
initiatives for a better world. In this sense, one key area 
for us is nuclear disarmament. The Review Conference 
of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
15-29658
49/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
Nuclear Weapons last May failed to reach an agreement, 
but  there  is  growing  international  momentum  on 
nuclear  disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  At  that 
Conference,  I  delivered  a  joint  statement  on  the 
humanitarian  consequences  of  nuclear  weapons  on 
behalf  of  159  States.  And  the  Vienna  Conference  on 
the  Humanitarian  Impact  of  Nuclear  Weapons  last 
December  resulted  in  a  humanitarian  pledge,  which 
has been endorsed by 116 States. Austria, together with 
other sponsors, will submit several draft resolutions on 
the humanitarian initiative, and we hope that they will 
receive broad support. 
Seventy  years  after  Hiroshima  and  Nagasaki, 
nuclear  weapons  still  pose  one  of  the  most  serious 
threats to humankind. I can assure the Assembly that 
Austria will fight for a world free of nuclear weapons 
to make our world a safer place.
The  global  challenges  we  are  facing  require  a 
strong  United  Nations.  We  therefore  thank  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for all his work. I can assure the 
Assembly  that  Austria  will  remain  committed  to  the 
United Nations and to our Secretary-General. They can 
continue to count on our continuous support.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Charles Flanagan, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs and Trade of Ireland.
Mr.  Flanagan  (Ireland):  It  is  a  great  honour  for 
me  to  address  the  General  Assembly  this  afternoon 
on behalf of Ireland on the sixtieth anniversary of my 
country’s joining the United Nations and the seventieth 
anniversary of the founding of the United Nations itself. 
At the intersection of these two special anniversaries, 
it  has  been  a  great  privilege  for  Ireland  to  have 
co-facilitated the final negotiations of the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs),  the  implementation  of 
which  is  critical  for  the  future  of  our  planet  and  its 
people.
The  SDGs  are  a  tangible  manifestation  of  the 
capacity  of  the  United  Nations  to  deliver  positive 
outcomes  in  the  most  challenging  circumstances,  but 
we  cannot  be  complacent.  On  the  contrary,  in  this 
anniversary  year,  we  must  critically  appraise  our 
failures, as the international community, to prevent war, 
genocide, forced displacement and deprivation. Today 
we  face  unprecedented  challenges  in  confronting  the 
savage violence of well-resourced non-State actors, as 
well as of some States, with consequential humanitarian 
catastrophes  unfolding  in  many  parts  of  the  world. 
Strong and assertive leadership by the United Nations 
has never been as critical. I know the United Nations 
and its Members can live up to this great challenge.
In our 60 years at the United Nations, Ireland has 
pursued a series of policy priorities that continue to be 
central to our foreign policy. They include peacekeeping, 
non-proliferation 
disarmament, 
development  aid,  promoting  peace  and  security  while 
we were on the Security Council, and advancing gender 
equality.  I  will  touch  upon  these  policies  and  outline 
their continuing relevance for Ireland today.
nuclear 
and 
In  the  1950s,  when  Ireland  joined  the  United 
Nations,  our  then  Prime  Minister,  John  A.  Costello, 
identified our goal as playing “our part to secure what 
small nations have always required, the maintenance of 
peace”. We are extremely proud that the loyal service of 
Irish peacekeepers has been central to our negotiations 
with  the  United  Nations  since  1958.  On  12  occasions 
our  soldiers  have  led  United  Nations  missions.  There 
are  currently  370  committed  and  courageous  Irish 
peacekeeping  troops  serving  in  seven  United  Nations 
missions;  87  Irish  peacekeepers  have  tragically  lost 
their lives in the active service of the United Nations.
Ireland  feels  a  strong  sense  of  responsibility  to 
protect  the  reputation  and  honour  of  United  Nations 
peacekeepers. We owe this to our peacekeeping troops, 
past,  present  and  future.  And  so,  like  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon,  we  received  reports  of  sexual 
abuse  involving  some  United  Nations  peacekeepers 
with shock and outrage.
United Nations peacekeeping missions must never 
be associated with exploitation because of the actions 
of  a  few.  Ireland  will  always  speak  out  to  defend  the 
vulnerable.  We  will  not  be  silent  about  the  plight 
of  women  and  children  harmed  by  the  very  people 
responsible for their protection. Those serving under the 
United Nations flag have a fundamental responsibility 
to behave in an honourable way and to be a force for 
good in this world. 
Ireland demands decisive action in confronting any 
criminal  behaviour  by  United  Nations  troops.  This  is 
vital to protect the good name of the United Nations and 
its peacekeepers, the overwhelming majority of whom 
are  principled  people.  We  want  appropriate  training, 
clear accountability and strict sanctions. I welcome the 
Secretary-General’s commitment to making the United 
Nations  firm  zero-tolerance  policy  into  an  effective 
zero-crime reality.
50/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
United  Nations  peacekeeping  and 
Ireland’s 
contribution  have  adapted  in  scale  and  complexity 
to  challenges  over  the  past  six  decades.  Continuing 
flexibility  and  innovation  are  essential.  I  therefore 
welcome the report of the High-level Independent Panel 
on  Peace  Operations  and  its  comprehensive  analysis 
of  the  challenges  ahead  and  the  changes  required 
(A/70/95). In particular, our own experience of conflict 
in Ireland has taught us that full and equal participation 
by women in decisions around peace and security are 
vital to building a sustainable peace.
I  now  turn  to  the  1960s.  From  our  earliest  days 
at  the  United  Nations,  Ireland  has  been  passionately 
committed  to  disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  As 
the first State to sign the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in 1968, following several 
years  work  as  initiator  of  the  General  Assembly 
resolutions  that  led  to  its  agreement,  we  have  a  deep 
and  abiding  commitment  to  the  full  implementation 
of  the  Treaty.  Indeed,  significant  progress  has  been 
made  on  non-proliferation.  We  warmly  welcome  the 
agreement  reached  with  Iran  and  look  forward  to  its 
implementation.  More  broadly,  we  hope  that  this  will 
also mark the opening of a new and constructive chapter 
in  Iran’s  engagement  in  the  international  system. 
Conversely,  the  outcome  of  the  2015  NPT  Review 
Conference  in  May  was  deeply  disappointing.  States 
with nuclear arsenals have special responsibilities, and 
Ireland will continue to press them to deliver on their 
commitments under the NPT.
Today  there  are  at  least  17,000  nuclear  weapons 
posing a threat to our very survival. We cannot accept 
that status quo. Ireland wants real momentum injected 
into  the  nuclear  disarmament  pillar  of  the  NPT.  The 
SDG negotiation process underscored the very positive 
role  that  civic  society  groups  and  people  around  the 
world can play. Ireland would like to see that positivity, 
inclusivity  and  urgency  in  the  nuclear  disarmament 
debate.
We  see  the  daily  consequences  of  illegal  and 
irresponsible flows of arms and conventional weapons 
in  the  appalling  scenes  of  chaos  and  brutality  into 
which parts of our world have descended. The scenes 
in our newspapers and on our television and computer 
screens are truly horrific. People wonder what can be 
done to stem this industrial-scale violence. 
Part of the solution is the Arms Trade Treaty, one 
of  the  international  community’s  most  significant 
achievements  in  recent  years.  Ireland  was  one  of  the 
first  States  to  ratify  the  Treaty,  and  we  have  offered 
financial  support  to  enable  wider  participation  in 
negotiations  and  more  effective 
implementation. 
The  onus  is  now  on  all  States  parties  to  maintain  the 
immense  and  sustained  effort  we  put  into  negotiating 
the Treaty. We must ensure that we live up to its great 
promise, with the ultimate goal of enhancing peace and 
security and thereby saving lives.
Now to the 1970s. In 1974, having acceded to the 
European Union the previous year, Ireland established 
its  programme  of  overseas  development  cooperation, 
Irish  Aid.  Since  then  Ireland  has  provided  over 
$13 billion in support of the world’s most impoverished 
people and has championed the aid agenda within the 
European Union, which is the world’s largest provider 
of development assistance.
Last week at Headquarters, world leaders adopted 
the  new  Sustainable  Development  Goals  for 
the 
period up to 2030. We have committed ourselves to an 
ambitious  programme  and  transformational  agenda  to 
end extreme poverty, to preserve the planet for this and 
future generations and to create conditions for balanced 
economic  growth  throughout  the  world.  Reaching 
agreement on these Goals is one of the most important 
achievements of the United Nations in recent years. It 
was an enormous challenge, and we, the 193 Member 
States,  rose  to  it.  That  was  multilateral  diplomacy  at 
its best.
The United Nations has demonstrated its continuing 
relevance  and,  indeed,  indispensability.  I  am  proud 
that Ireland was able to make its contribution through 
the  co-facilitator  role  played  by  Ambassador  David 
Donoghue  and  his  team  in  the  negotiations  which, 
working  with  Kenya,  brought  about  this  landmark 
agreement. Moving to successful implementation of this 
huge global agenda will be the next great challenge. We 
do not underestimate the challenges for all countries in 
implementing a universal agenda that is as broad and 
diverse as the new SDGs, but we cannot underestimate 
the huge achievement and benefits for humankind if it 
is successfully implemented.
Our  development  gains  are  threatened  by  the 
unprecedented scale of humanitarian crises facing our 
world.  The  total  number  of  refugees  and  internally 
displaced  people  worldwide  has  now  surpassed 
50  million  people.  In  Europe,  we  have  clearly  seen 
the  tragic  consequences  for  those  who,  driven  by 
desperation,  are  taking  inconceivable  risks  to  find  a 
safe haven for their families. Addressing the migration 
15-29658
51/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
crisis is a huge challenge for Europe and one that we 
are  working  hard  to  resolve.  People  are  fleeing  their 
home countries for a multiplicity of reasons. They are 
arriving in Europe from a multiplicity of routes. They 
undertake perilous journeys, often exploited by ruthless 
criminals along the way. This is a disaster that requires 
the close collaboration of the international community. 
The  United  Nations  is  undertaking  vital  work  in 
seeking to address the root causes of mass migration and 
to provide humanitarian assistance to those who have 
been  driven  from  their  homes  by  the  ravages  of  war. 
I urge States to work with the Special Representative 
of the Secretary-General on Migration — an Irishman, 
Peter Sutherland, who is dedicating himself to assisting 
in  the  resolution  of  this  global  catastrophe.  Ireland 
supports  the  humanitarian  effort  by  providing  crucial 
funding  and  other  resources.  We  have  deployed 
search-and-rescue ships to the Mediterranean. We are 
providing for the resettlement of over 4,000 refugees.
Ireland  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  setting 
up of the High-Level Panel on Humanitarian Financing 
to  address  the  growing  gap  between  humanitarian 
needs  and  resources.  We  will  participate  fully  in 
that  and  other  processes  leading  to  next  year’s  World 
Humanitarian Summit.
In the 1980s, Ireland completed its first full term on 
the Security Council, motivated by its commitment to 
multilateralism and a rules-based international system. 
These  values  are  under  grave  threat  today.  Russia’s 
unlawful  annexation  of  Crimea  and  the  conflict  in 
eastern  Ukraine  have  had  profound  implications  for 
the people of Ukraine and for the international system 
itself.  Ireland  calls  on  all  sides  to  respect  and  fully 
implement  the  Minsk  agreements  and  to  cooperate 
with the peacebuilding efforts of the Organization for 
Security and Cooperation in Europe in the region. 
During  our  first  term  on  the  Security  Council  in 
1981 and 1982, the Middle East was, as ever, prominent 
on  the  international  agenda.  Today,  challenges  in  the 
region are even greater. In Syria, over 200,000 people 
have  lost  their  lives  and  over  11  million  people  have 
been  displaced.  The  Al-Assad  regime  continues  to 
flout international law, while the Islamic State in Iraq 
and  the  Levant  (ISIL)  inflicts  gratuitous  cruelty  and 
suffering on the people of Syria and northern Iraq. Its 
casual barbarism is a threat to every value the United 
Nations  holds  dear,  and  therefore  the  United  Nations 
has a duty to act.
Elsewhere in the region, Ireland remains concerned 
at  the  continued  stalemate  in  the  Middle  East  peace 
process.  We  are  strong  advocates  of  the  two-State 
solution as the only way to achieve a just and lasting 
peace for the Israeli and Palestinian peoples.
In  our  pursuit  of  peace  on  the  island  of  Ireland, 
we  were,  and  continue  to  be,  supported  by  steadfast 
partners  who  stayed  the  course  with  us  through 
many  difficult  years,  keeping  faith  where  others  saw 
hopelessness.  In  our  wide-ranging  work  on  conflict 
prevention,  mediation  and  State-building,  we  seek  to 
share our experience. We hope to bring this to the table 
when we seek election to the Security Council again in 
2020.
the 
that  have 
long-held  convictions 
I  turn  to  the  1990s.  Historically,  Ireland  has 
supported  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights, from our early support for decolonization to our 
opposition  to  apartheid  in  South  Africa  and  through 
to  our  election  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the 
term 2013 to 2015. In 1997, our former President, Mary 
Robinson,  was  appointed  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights. At the Human Rights 
Council, Ireland has sought to give concrete expression 
to 
informed 
our  positions  within  the  United  Nations.  We  have 
championed  resolutions  to  promote  and  protect  civil 
society space, which we recognize as essential to make 
other rights attainable. We advocate for the critical role 
of  human  rights  defenders.  We  have  led  initiatives  to 
prevent the morbidity and mortality of children under 5.
In  Ireland,  there  is  widespread  concern  about 
violent  repression  and  terrorist  attacks  on  religious 
minorities.  We  have  seen  an  alarming  rise  in  attacks 
on  Christians,  Baha’i,  Jews  and  Muslims.  Elsewhere 
people  are  oppressed  and  punished  because  of  their 
gender, race or sexual orientation. In short, vulnerable 
minorities are under increasing attack from repressive 
State regimes and from transnational terrorist networks 
including ISIL, Al-Qaida, Boko Haram and others. The 
United Nations, as a champion of equality, plurality and 
diversity,  has  an  important  role  to  play  in  defending 
and protecting vulnerable groups. We fully support the 
Organization in this essential task. 
This  year  Ireland  became  the  first  country  in 
the  world  to  legalize  marriage  equality  by  a  popular 
vote.  This  has  been  a  hugely  positive  experience  for 
Ireland, and we urge other States to follow suit and to 
promote  rights  for  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,  transgender 
52/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
and intersex citizens. Similarly, Ireland has had its own 
historic  experience  of  religious  repression;  therefore, 
religious freedom is a matter of great importance to my 
country.
Turning to the 2000s, I wish to emphasize Ireland’s 
grave  concern  for  vulnerable  women  and  girls  in 
many  parts  of  the  world  and  our  strong  commitment 
to  gender  equality.  In  the  year  2000,  just  before  our 
last  membership  of  the  Security  Council,  Ireland 
co-sponsored  resolution  1325  (2000),  on  women  and 
peace  and  security,  reflecting  our  strong  national 
commitment  to  this  agenda.  I  hope  that  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon may be succeeded by a brilliant 
female  Secretary-General  in  due  course,  because  that 
would  send  a  powerful  message  to  women  and  men 
throughout the world that here, in the United Nations, 
we  are  willing  to  remove  the  barriers  that  prevent 
women from fulfilling their true potential.
We strongly endorse the code of conduct on Security 
Council action on mass atrocity crimes, developed by 
Liechtenstein  and  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and 
Transparency group, and we support the declaration by 
France  and  Mexico  on  regulating  the  use  of  the  veto. 
Ireland  is  ready  for  membership  in  2021  of  a  much 
reformed  and  more  representative  Security  Council, 
one  that  is  better  equipped  to  respond  to  twenty-first 
-century threats to international peace and security.
Realizing the United Nations core values in every 
Member State will mean a fairer, more prosperous and 
sustainable world for this generation and all those who 
come after. I wish to conclude with the words of the late 
Irish  poet  Seamus  Heaney,  “I  have  begun  to  think  of 
life as a series of ripples widening out from an original 
centre”.
In 2015, a very special anniversary year for us all, 
it is time to reflect on our own original centre — the 
United  Nations  Charter  —  and  for  all  193  Member 
States to recommit ourselves to delivering on its great 
promise: a peaceful, just and prosperous world.
Mr. Alrowaiei (Bahrain), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on His Excellency Moussa Faki Mahamat, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs and African Integration of the Republic 
of Chad.
Mr.  Mahamat  (Chad)  (spoke  in  French):  Fifteen 
years ago, we welcomed unanimously the adoption of 
the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  and  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  as  the  appropriate 
response to the poverty-related problems facing many 
of  our  countries.  With  the  adoption  of  the  post-2015 
development  Agenda  (resolution  70/1),  the  General 
Assembly,  at  its  seventieth  session,  has  once  again 
reaffirmed  States’  determination  to  fight  poverty  by 
seeking new ways and means of promoting development. 
The  success  of  the  implementation  of  the  Agenda 
will  require  suitable  joint  responses  to  the  numerous 
challenges facing the world.
For  many  African  countries,  success  in  this 
endeavour will hinge on their security situation and their 
ability to finance their development plans and strategies. 
On  a  daily  basis  they  face  challenges  that  include 
terrorism and a drop in export prices. The successful 
implementation  of  this  new  development  Agenda  will 
also  depend  on  the  solidarity  of  developed  countries 
towards  developing  countries  in  terms  of  effective 
financing. That is why we have high expectations that 
the  conclusions  of  the  third  International  Conference 
on  Financing  for  Development,  held  in  Addis  Ababa, 
will be translated into reality.
The  theme  of  this  session,  “The  United  Nations 
at  70:  the  road  ahead  for  peace,  security  and  human 
rights”, means that we should place at the very heart of 
our general debate the issue of resolving the challenges 
that  our  Organization  currently  faces, 
the  most 
intractable of which include armed conflicts, terrorism 
and  migration.  There  is  no  doubt  that  Africa  is  one 
of  the  epicentres  in  that  respect,  given  the  multiple 
tragedies taking place there.
In  the  Central  African  Republic,  for  example, 
the  particularly  bloody  clashes  of  recent  days  are 
jeopardizing  the  few  hard-won  victories  achieved 
during  the  transition.  The  international  community 
must not throw in the towel and must help the country 
emerge  from  this  phase  by  providing  it  with  the 
necessary  budgetary  support  to  hold  elections  within 
the set time frame.
In  the  Lake  Chad  basin,  the  terrorist  activities 
being  carried  out  virtually  on  a  daily  basis  by  the 
terrorist group Boko Haram against the countries of the 
subregion have not ceased despite considerable losses it 
suffered during the military operations carried out by 
a coalition of those countries’ armies. A multinational 
joint task force has been set up by the countries members 
of the Lake Chad Basin Commission in order to put an 
end to the abuses committed by that nefarious group. 
15-29658
53/55
A/70/PV.22 
01/10/2015
We  remain  confident  that,  with  the  intensification  of 
this military cooperation, we will be able to once and 
for all eradicate this evil terrorist group. We also expect 
the  United  Nations  and  all  of  our  partners  to  provide 
material, financial and logistical support to that force.
Aside  from  military  action,  these  countries  have 
decided to adopt an emergency development programme 
to  help  the  most  vulnerable  populations  fight  against 
the deep-seated causes of insecurity, which are linked 
to poverty. This initiative, which originated in the Lake 
Chad Basin Commission, is a game-changer in terms of 
the peace and security efforts in the region and merits 
our support.
In  Mali,  the  peace  agreements  signed  recently  in 
Algiers, which are aimed at transforming that country 
back into the haven of peace and tolerance that it had 
always  been,  are  being  put  seriously  to  the  test  by 
armed  groups,  despite  the  presence  of  international 
forces.  Chad  calls  on  all  parties  to  show  wisdom  and 
to  respect  their  commitments  in  implementing  the 
aforementioned agreements.
In Libya, the presence of a number of elements linked 
to  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  continues 
to contribute to the collapse of that country and is an 
additional  source  of  concern  and  even  destabilization 
for Africa as a whole and in particular for neighbouring 
countries, including Chad. We urgently call for an end to 
the violence and for the establishment of a Government 
of national unity.
In South Sudan, Chad is working actively alongside 
a  number  of  African  countries  to  end  the  fratricidal 
war  taking  place  there.  Political  actors  must  make 
every  effort  to  concentrate  solely  on  building  their 
young  State.  The  Intergovernmental  Authority  on 
Development  and  the  ad  hoc  committee  tasked  with 
supporting it in mediation must continue to stand firm 
and act cohesively so as to achieve a lasting solution to 
this terrifying crisis.
In the Sudan, we support the holding of the national 
dialogue planned for next month, and we call upon the 
political class as a whole and all armed groups to take 
part in the process.
The majority of African crises are born of or fuelled 
by  underdevelopment.  That  is  why  several  initiatives 
have been launched, including the 2013 United Nations 
Integrated Strategy for the Sahel, that have given rise to 
great hopes for the countries of the region, confronted 
as  they  are  with  the  dual  challenge  of  insecurity  and 
underdevelopment.  It  is  regrettable,  however,  that  the 
announcements made in the context of the Strategy are 
taking a long time to be translated into reality.
Turning  to  the  rest  of  the  world,  the  Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict  remains  unresolved,  prolonging 
the suffering of the Palestinian people and intensifying 
rancour  on  all  sides.  It  is  high  time  to  overcome  the 
psychological  obstacles  by  promoting  the  creation  of 
a viable Palestinian State living in peace side by side 
with  Israel.  The  raising  yesterday  of  the  Palestinian 
flag within the United Nations compound is, we hope, 
an important step towards finding a peaceful solution 
to this conflict, which is as old as our Organization.
In  addition  to  this  endless  conflict,  we  are 
witnessing  particularly  violent  crises  in  Iraq,  Syria 
and  Yemen.  The  international  community  must  make 
every  effort  to  help  these  countries  overcome  these 
tragedies, whose repercussions are being felt not only 
in  the  Middle  East  but  also  in  the  rest  of  the  world. 
International  peace  and  security  are  under  serious 
threat from what is now happening in that part of the 
world.  Religious  radicalism  and  terrorism  have  found 
extremely fertile ground for their expansion.
The crisis situations that we have just described have 
greatly contributed to the upsurge in terrorism and the 
formation of criminal groups of all stripes. Terrorism, 
which  spares  no  continent  and  no  community,  is 
fast  becoming  a  global  scourge.  The  acts  of  extreme 
violence committed against peaceful populations under 
religious  or  doctrinaire  pretexts  run  counter  to  the 
principles of international law and human rights as well 
as religious principles.
In  Africa,  States  grappling  with  terrorism  are 
being forced to spend the lion’s share of their resources 
on  security 
instead  of  on  economic  and  social 
development.  My  country,  Chad,  is  in  this  situation.
We recently fell prey to that scourge with the death of 
around 100 persons assassinated in terrorist attacks in 
the  capital  and  on  the  islands  of  Lake  Chad.  Chad  is 
therefore  paying  for  its  involvement  against  terrorist 
groups in Mali and Nigeria, on whom it inflicted heavy 
losses, but Chad not will yield. It will continue to hunt 
down  those  terrorist  groups  relentlessly.  All  we  ask 
from our partners is that they give us robust support, 
both technical and material, to enable us to provide the 
response needed in this faceless war. 
The  capacity  of  terrorists  and  extremist  groups 
for transborder harm requires a collective and nimble 
54/55 
15-29658
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.22
response.  The  way  to  fight  terrorism  together  is  to 
pool our resources and our response strategies through 
intensifying regional and international cooperation. In 
that connection, we propose that 2016 be declared the 
Year of Fighting Terrorism. It would be an opportunity 
to think seriously about the deep-seated causes of that 
phenomenon, the ways and means to contain it and to 
eliminate it in the long term.
The  increase  in  the  number  and  seriousness  of 
crises  has  also  created  a  phenomenon  whose  scale  is 
unprecedented  in  the  world:  migration.  Indeed,  for 
some  months  now,  the  world  has  been  witnessing  an 
unexpected expansion of international migration. Those 
consequences  are  tragic  for  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
women and children desperately seeking a better life. 
The  international  community  will  be  able  to  put  an 
end to this migration only if appropriate solutions are 
found to its origins and underlying causes, particularly 
in  resolving  conflicts  and  eradicating  poverty  in  the 
countries of origin.
We also need to find solutions for the thousands of 
refugees  and  persons  displaced  throughout  the  world. 
They also need our help. Chad is the African country 
with the second-largest number of refugees, returnees 
and displaced persons on its territory, estimated at over 
500,000. They come from the regions bordering Chad, 
particularly  Sudanese  Darfur,  the  Central  African 
Republic,  Nigeria  and  Libya.  They  live  in  difficult 
environmental and humanitarian conditions.
Once again, I would like to take this opportunity 
friendly  countries  and  especially 
thank  all 
to 
the  Coordination 
the  Secretariat’s  Office 
for 
of  Humanitarian  Affairs  and 
International 
the 
Organization  for  Migration  for  their  support  to  those 
in need and for the advocacy they do for our country.
Our world has been facing an insidious threat for 
some  time  now  —  climate  change.  That  will  be  dealt 
with at a major conference in Paris next month. Chad 
will  actively  be  present  at  that  conference  because 
it  is  one  of  the  major  victims  of  degradation  due  to 
climate change. We are a Sahelian country threatened 
by  drought  and  desertification,  and  we  are  powerless 
in the face of the progressive drying up of Lake Chad. 
We strongly hope that the negotiations will lead to an 
agreement and give us some hope that we can save our 
planet, including the imperilled Lake Chad.
The  celebration  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  United  Nations  also  coincides  with  a  very  happy 
event, namely, the normalization of relations between 
the  United  States  of  America  and  Cuba,  which  Chad 
welcomes.  We  commend  the  courage  shown  by  the 
leaders of those two countries to achieve that outcome. 
We urge  them to continue their constructive dialogue 
until  we  see  a  complete  and  definitive  lifting  of  the 
embargo  that  Cuba  has  unjustly  suffered  for  decades, 
which will enable that country to recover the place it 
merits in the concert of nations.
Before  concluding  my  remarks,  the  delegation  of 
Chad  would  like  to  congratulate  the  President  on  his 
election and thank his predecessor for his remarkable 
work. We also pay tribute to the Secretary-General of 
our Organization for his personal and steady investment 
in the search for peace and security in the world.
I hope that this general debate will be crowned with 
success and, above all, that we will become much more 
aware of our individual and collective responsibilities. 
We also hope that it guides humanity to peace, security, 
stability and prosperity.
The meeting rose at 3.25 p.m.
15-29658
55/55
