United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
8th plenary meeting
Saturday, 26 September 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.8
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
High-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly
Agenda items 15 and 116 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
United Nations Summit for the adoption of the 
post-2015 development agenda
Co-Chair  Rasmussen: The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Republic of Peru.
Mr.  Ollanta  Humala  Tasso,  President  of  the 
Republic of Peru, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Humala Tasso (spoke in Spanish): It is 
an honour for me to represent Peru at this Summit on the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1), which is called upon to change the world in the 
next  15  years.  We  Peruvians  know  that  it  is  possible 
to achieve change if we work together on the basis of 
shared  objectives.  In  15  years,  Peru  has  achieved  the 
Millennium Development Goals ahead of schedule. In 
2000, more than half of the population lived in poverty; 
under  my  Administration,  that  proportion  has  been 
reduced to one fourth, and in the past four years more 
than 1.3 million Peruvians have overcome poverty and 
joined productive activity.
Today, Peru is considered to be an emerging country 
that  attracts  investments  and  creates  opportunities 
for  all  its  citizens.  To  that  end,  it  has  been  important 
to  strengthen  democracy  in  the  country.  Since  the 
beginning  of  my  Administration,  I  have  promoted  a 
comprehensive  policy  of  social  inclusion  focused  on 
the dignity of the individual and following an approach 
based  on  human  rights  and  reducing  inequality.  We 
also  need  to  preserve  the  environment  and  to  make 
sustainable use of our natural resources.
In sum, we need to integrate the three dimensions of 
sustainable  development:  sustained  economic  growth, 
social  inclusion  and  protection  of  the  environment. 
That  means  that  Agenda  2030  and  its  17  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  confront  us  with  a 
significantly greater challenge in international forums. 
It is not only a matter of eradicating extreme poverty. In 
this regard, we commit ourselves today to renewing and 
strengthening  a  global  partnership  that  will  allow  us 
to deliver to future generations a world that is without 
poverty as well as inclusive and sustainable — in other 
words, a morally sustainable world.
The higher level of ambition that we set for ourselves 
today through these 17 Goals realistically reflects the 
vulnerabilities  that  we  will  face.  It  also  reflects  the 
potential of the international community to do so. The 
gaps  that  we  see  in  the  world  must  be  bridged  in  the 
next few years if we wish to realize the solemn promise 
we have made today not to leave anyone behind.
My  Government  has  a  clear  understanding  of 
the  fact  that  poverty  is  multidimensional  and  that 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29235 (E)
*1529235*
A/70/PV.8 
26/09/2015
we  must  attack  it  on  all  fronts,  generating  growth 
with  social  inclusion,  paying  special  attention  to  the 
rights  of  women  and  children,  especially  infants, 
and  understanding  that  quality  education  for  all  and 
universal access to health and sanitation services can be 
basic instruments to promote equal opportunities. The 
means to implement the ambitious 2030 Agenda must 
be guaranteed by all actors involved, and together we 
must follow them up and make sure that that is the case. 
The primary responsibility rests with States, which will 
consequently be held accountable to their citizens and 
must promote their greater participation.
In my country, public investment in recent years has 
been mobilized towards social and educational policies 
at a level unprecedented in our history. We have made 
significant investments in road infrastructure and clean 
energy,  as  well  as  with  respect  to  access  to  housing, 
water  and  sanitation.  For  the  first  time,  too,  we  have 
established  a  national  plan  for  diversified  production 
based  on  the  expansion  of  technological  integration 
with  small  and  micro  enterprises  and  with  research 
centres.
Similarly,  we  have  created  a  national  system  of 
scholarships that has grown exponentially every year. 
That  policy  has  been  supplemented  by  the  creation 
of  centres  of  innovation  aimed  at  developing  our 
competitive  advantages.  Businesses  that  invest  in 
research  and  development  enjoy  tax  benefits  in  Peru. 
Through all of this, we seek to promote industry, agro-
industry,  the  fishing  industry,  the  forest  industry, 
textiles,  gastronomy,  metallurgy  and  aviation,  among 
other sectors called upon to sustain inclusive growth, 
creating  good  jobs  for  our  young  people.  On  28  July, 
on the anniversary of the independence of my country, 
Peru, I referred to all of these elements; today, we see 
them all reflected in the Goals and targets of the new 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which will 
change the world over the next 15 years.
In the year 2021, the Republic of Peru will celebrate 
its bicentennial. Our vision is of a future in which each 
of our citizens will feel a part of the Peruvian nation, 
enjoying the same rights to education and quality health 
care, connected to their land and culture, respected for 
their work, and receiving fair wages. We also want to 
offer them opportunities that can put all their capacities 
to work.
From  Sendai,  Addis  Ababa,  New  York,  Lima  and 
Paris  during  the  upcoming  Conference  of  Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change, leaders are prepared to adopt actions 
and  measures  to  achieve  our  goals  of  sustainable 
development. The Paris Conference will be decisive in 
guiding our societies towards a pattern of development 
that  is  low-carbon  and  more  resilient  and  takes  into 
account  the  needs  and  expectations  of  the  most 
vulnerable  among  our  population.  In  the  interactive 
dialogue  on  climate  change  that  I  will  co-chair  with 
the  President  of  France,  we  hope  that  the  political 
commitment to working for success at the Conference 
of the Parties will be reaffirmed.
The 2030 Agenda offers us a similar vision for all 
peoples  of  the  world  and  commits  us  all  to  realizing 
the  future  we  want.  Achieving  these  ambitious  goals 
will be an enormous challenge that can be compared by 
some to finding heaven on Earth. Many sceptics may 
think  that  this  is  utopian,  but  if  we  have  faith  in  the 
human person and in the capacity of our leaders, all of 
this could become a reality.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the President of the 
Republic of Peru for his statement.
Mr.  Ollanta  Humala  Tasso,  President  of  the 
Republic of Peru, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen: The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Head of State of the Kingdom 
of Swaziland.
His  Majesty  King  Mswati  III,  Head  of  State  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
King  Mswati  III: It  is  a  great  honour  for  me  to 
address this Summit during the seventieth anniversary 
of the United Nations, marking the end of the era for 
the  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  and  also  to  consider  the  new  global 
17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The Kingdom of Eswatini has remained committed 
to the implementation of the MDGs since we embraced 
them in the year 2000 here at the United Nations. We 
pledge  further  commitment  to  the  new  2030  Agenda. 
The United Nations review of the MDGs has been well 
captured and allows us to measure our achievements and 
challenges. While we have made significant strides in 
some areas, there is no doubt that the biggest challenge 
has  been  the  inadequate  financial  resources  to  carry 
out the implementation of a number of the short- and 
medium-  to  long-term  goals.  Donor  funding  and  the 
2/24 
15-29235
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.8
support of international financial institutions are vital 
to  the  realization  of  the  new  Goals,  which  serve  as  a 
renewal of the effort to change, for the better, the lives 
of people across the globe.
It  is  clear  that  forming  a  global  partnership  for 
development is the key to the successful transformation 
desired  by  the  United  Nations  family  of  nations,  as 
no country can succeed in isolation. For Africa, what 
makes  such  partnerships  more  viable  is  the  fact  that 
the  new  global  Agenda  resonates  very  well  with  the 
African Union Agenda 2063, as they both seek to create 
better living conditions for our people on the continent.
The  Kingdom  of  Eswatini  has  also  developed 
its  national  Vision  2022,  which  is  closely  aligned 
to  the  continental  vision,  in  its  efforts  to  transform 
itself  from  a  middle-income  to  a  developed  country. 
In  pursuit  of  this  internationally  aligned  vision,  the 
Kingdom of Eswatini is happy to report that it has made 
recognizable progress in five of the eight MDGs set out 
in the year 2000. Significant progress has been realized 
in  achieving  universal  primary  education,  where  the 
enrolment rate increased from 72.1 per cent in 2000 to 
97 per cent in 2014.
We  have  also  developed  a  robust  policy  to  guide 
gender  issues  in  the  country,  integrated  these  issues 
into development planning and placed career guidance 
officers  at  the  regional  offices  to  help  improve 
sensitization.  We  wish  to  applaud  the  African  Union 
for  recently  honouring  the  country  for  its  efforts  in 
women’s empowerment.
In  the  health  sector,  we  have  introduced  free 
access  to  assisted  reproductive  technology  to  those 
who  need  such  services.  We  have  also  provided  a 
quality  new  tuberculosis  centre  to  cater  for  patients 
and  have  developed  an  effective  malaria  programme. 
Child  mortality  has  also  been  drastically  reduced.  In 
ensuring environmental sustainability, programmes for 
these targets are in place in order to support the needs 
of present and future generations.
Finally, may I reiterate that strong global solidarity 
and effective partnerships, peace and stability, should 
be at the forefront of our new global Agenda. We are 
confident  that  together  and  united  we  will  transform 
our world and achieve a sustainable development that 
leaves nobody behind. These new goals require that our 
commitment not be just to accepting a change of name, 
but  must  achieve  results  that  change  the  lives  of  our 
people for the better.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Head of State of 
the Kingdom of Swaziland for his statement.
His  Majesty  King  Mswati  III,  Head  of  State  of 
the Kingdom of Swaziland, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Co-Chair Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Union  of  the 
Comoros.
Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, President of the Union of the 
Comoros, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Dhoinine (spoke in French): In September 
2000, we met here to adopt an historic document, the 
Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2), the founding 
text  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
that have been at the heart of our common development 
agenda during the past 15 years. The evaluations made 
in  various  countries,  regions  and  worldwide  on  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
reflect  contrasting  results  but  globally  a  positive 
outcome, although the situation can still be improved. 
In particular, the goal of reducing poverty has suffered 
from  a  lack  of  sufficient  financing,  especially  in 
countries that had the most to do in that respect.
The  neediest  and  most  vulnerable  countries 
have  often  had  very  little  access  to  the  resources 
of  development  assistance.  As  I  stated  recently  in 
Addis  Ababa  at  the  third  Conference  on  Financing 
for  Development,  although  the  domestic  resources  of 
those countries are mobilized and well spent, they are 
not  sufficient  to  support  the  ambitious  programmes 
aimed at speeding up the elimination of poverty in all 
its forms.
For my country, the Union of the Comoros, which 
is  both  a  least  developed  country  and  a  small  island 
developing  State  (SIDS)  —  with  all  of  the  challenges 
consequent  to  that  status  —  the  MDGs  show  that 
significant  advances  have  been  made  in  the  social 
sector.  In  terms  of  health  and  education,  the  main 
indicators  have  shown  that  considerable  progress 
has  been  made  towards  the  targets.  Child  and  youth 
mortality  and  maternal  mortality  have  been  reduced 
considerably,  very  close  to  the  target  rates  set  for 
2015 in the Millennium Development Goals. In terms 
of  education,  the  number  of  children  in  school  and 
graduating has shown considerable progress as a result 
of  the  combination  of  relevant  strategies  adopted  by 
the  country  in  the  sectors  concerned  and  significant 
15-29235
3/24
A/70/PV.8 
26/09/2015
investments  made  towards  their  implementation,  with 
the support of development partners.
The level of monetary poverty, however, has been 
stagnant  because  countries,  despite  all  their  efforts, 
have not been able to mobilize the resources necessary 
to finance economic infrastructure and to make other 
investments  that  could  guarantee  progress  towards 
reducing poverty and inequality.
If there is to be real sustainable development there is 
a need to fight more effectively against climate change 
in  small  island  developing  States,  especially  through 
the  speedy  implementation  of  the  Samoa  Pathway. 
I  should  also  like  to  emphasize  that  my  country,  like 
other  developing  countries,  has  adopted  strategies, 
development  plans  and  other  relevant  development 
instruments in line with the recommendations made by 
relevant bodies following the Millennium Declaration.
Today, strengthened by the lessons learned through 
implementation  of  the  Millennium  Declaration  and 
what  has  been  achieved  in  development  over  the  past 
15 years, we come together to adopt another text that 
is  equally  historic  and  even  more  ambitious  for  the 
future  of  humankind.  My  country  fully  supports  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1)  and  the  African  Common  Position  promoting 
the  structural  transformation  of  Africa.  We  highly 
appreciate the quality of the work that has been done 
to reach that consensus document, which will allow us 
to be more effective in our ambition to build a better 
world for all.
We  must  and  can  succeed  in  implementing  the 
Sustainable Development Goals because we are better 
prepared,  and  international  cooperation  has  made 
considerable strides over the past 15 years. Furthermore, 
the Addis Ababa Action Agenda that we adopted at the 
third Conference on Financing for Development will, if 
implemented, prevent the disappointments experienced 
in the implementation of the MDGs.
I  am  pleased  to  note  that  the  new  Goals  take  the 
MDGs  fully  into  account  and  integrate  other  sectors 
that  are  essential  to  sustainable  development.  The 
achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
involves not only the developing countries but also the 
developed ones, and not exclusively through the global 
development  partnership.  Each  country  on  the  planet 
is  therefore  called  upon  to  implement  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals and to be accountable to that effect. 
That will enable better ownership of the new Agenda 
throughout the world. I wish to emphasize the crucial 
role in implementing the Agenda played by Sustainable 
Development Goal 16, which seeks to
“[p]romote  peaceful  and  inclusive  societies  for 
sustainable development, provide access to justice 
for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive 
institutions at all levels”.
This will highlight and operationalize the links between 
countries and development.
I hope that this Summit will lead to historic results, 
because we need to bear in mind the powerful message 
of our new Agenda that we can be the first generation 
to succeed in putting an end to poverty, as we could be 
the last to have the opportunity to safeguard our planet. 
Long live international cooperation!
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the President of the 
Union of the Comoros for his statement.
Mr.  Ikililou  Dhoinine,  President  of  the  Union  of  
the Comoros, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Gabonese 
Republic.
Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the Gabonese 
Republic, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Bongo Ondimba (spoke in French): It is 
an honour for me to take the floor at this Summit on the 
adoption of the post-2015 development agenda. I wish 
to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  and  your  co-Chair  on  your 
appointments. I remain convinced that the two of you 
will be able to lead our debate to a successful outcome. 
I also wish to highlight the important contributions 
of  the  working  group  that  led  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  the  crucial  Agenda  that  we  adopted 
yesterday  (resolution  70/1),  which  must  become  a 
true road map and offer a new opportunity for global 
governance  that  is  coordinated  and  harmonious  for 
more  sustainable  development.  That  is  why  we  must 
ensure  that  the  Goals  are  implemented  in  accordance 
with the interests of our own peoples.
Fifteen  years  have  gone  by  since  the  Millennium 
Summit, at which we adopted an ambitious agenda to 
eradicate poverty in all its forms and the promotion of 
development that is profitable for all. The Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  were  an  ideal  and  an 
aspiration  that  was  greatly  shared  by  the  peoples  and 
4/24 
15-29235
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.8
Despite 
the  mobilization 
Governments of the world as a whole. They represented 
a glimpse of hope for developing countries in their daily 
battle against poverty, hunger and underdevelopment. 
followed,  we 
must  admit  that  the  global  results  have  been  mixed, 
particularly in Africa and the least developed countries. 
The 
the  structural  and  economic 
realities of our countries and of the proposed financing 
mechanisms did not favour the achievement of certain 
Goals.
inadequacy  of 
that 
I  wish  to  highlight  the  significant  progress  made 
through the national, regional and global implementation 
of the Goals. In that context, Gabon enjoyed significant 
results in this process with the support of civil society. 
In education, the rate of school attendance is now more 
than  97  per  cent,  which  is  one  of  the  highest  on  our 
continent. Gender equality in education at the primary 
and secondary levels is accomplished. In health care, we 
have made outstanding progress in reducing maternal 
mortality and the mortality of children under the age of 
5. The trends in HIV/AIDS have been reversed and other 
illnesses have been reduced in a significant manner.
Gabon, 
through  me,  welcomes 
National  solidarity  has  also  seen 
important 
advances with the implementation of a national human 
investment strategy endowed, inter alia, with universal 
health  care  and  access  to  social  services,  particularly 
focused on the most vulnerable parts of the population. 
My  country  therefore  welcomes  the  broad  scope  of 
the new Agenda, which translates that unanimous and 
common  will  into  the  establishment  of  a  new  global 
partnership to move beyond the earlier Goals.
the 
inclusion 
in  the  new  Agenda  of  the  priorities  of  the  African 
Common Position, which was adopted by the African 
Union in January 2014. I am also happy that the main 
Goals  of  the  Agenda  will  help  Gabon  become  an 
emerging country by 2030. I would note in particular 
the  priority  attached  to  policies  and  programmes 
for  young  people.  The  dynamism  and  training  of  our 
young  people  will  undoubtedly  help  accelerate  the 
structural  transformation  of  our  economies  so  as  to 
definitively  place  our  country  on  the  path  towards 
sustainable  development.  Our  diversification  policy 
has  allowed  my  Government  to  focus  particularly  on 
developing  agriculture  and  livestock.  In  that  context, 
we have adopted a new agricultural programme aimed 
at ensuring food security. It is also the key of our policy 
to  industrialize  the  agricultural  sector  and  develop 
200,000 hectares of land and create more than 20,000 
new jobs.
Clearly,  these  efforts  can  be  fruitful  only  in  an 
economic,  social  and  political  environment  of  good 
governance and peace. My country has therefore adopted 
institutional instruments to guarantee transparency and 
the open management of public property. I have made 
the  fight  against  corruption  and  the  misuse  of  public 
funds a strategic and priority goal. A special court for 
economic  and  financial  crimes  and  major  trafficking 
has  been  put  into  place.  As  the  Assembly  knows, 
improving  the  business  climate  is  key  to  trust  and  to 
attracting private investment, which is essential to the 
success of our development programmes.
The  commitment  of  Gabon  to  combating  climate 
change remains constant, given the grave consequences 
of this phenomenon for development, peace and security 
in  the  world.  My  country  will  continue  to  contribute 
to  the  efforts  of  the  international  community  for  the 
adoption in Paris of a universal and binding accord to 
limit the increase in temperature to 2°C. In that respect, 
my  country  will  organize  tomorrow,  27  September,  a 
high-level  event  on  this  important  issue  because  we 
must work hand in hand towards the common goal of 
protecting the environment of the planet for the good 
of humankind.
The  Goals  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  which  we  have  just  adopted  force  us  to 
strengthen international cooperation — a new, renewed 
international cooperation that reaffirms our conviction 
that  all  generations  belong 
the  same  human 
community and aspire to the same happiness.
to 
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the President of the 
Gabonese Republic for his statement.
Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the Gabonese 
Republic, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen: The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Estonia.
the 
Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of 
Republic of Estonia, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Ilves: This  is  a  crucial  year  of  global 
action  towards  a  sustainable  world.  The  historic 
agreement  on  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs)  has  been  reached.  For  the  first  time,  all 
countries of the world, regardless of their size or level 
15-29235
5/24
A/70/PV.8 
26/09/2015
of development, have agreed at the United Nations level 
to  set  the  same  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  This 
universal  and  highly  ambitious  agenda  follows  and 
expands on the Millennium Development Goals. 
The  global  challenges  we  face  are  complex,  yet 
they are interlinked. The risks of armed conflicts and 
crises, forced migration, weak economies and corrupt 
Governments,  poor  education,  climate  change  and 
natural disasters — to name just a few — are all closely 
linked together. The current refugee crises are not only 
about  emergencies  but  also  about  a  lack  of  long-term 
and lasting solutions.
is 
together  only  by 
recognizing 
the  SDGs 
The  main  strength  of 
their 
comprehensiveness.  We  can  tackle  the  challenges 
successfully 
their 
complexity. Peace and security are the first pillar and 
basic prerequisite for sustainable development. Here we 
struggle  with  many  urgent challenges  in Syria  and  in 
Ukraine. Another pillar is addressing natural disasters; 
that is why climate change has a prominent place in our 
agenda this year. We have high expectations for reaching 
a new agreement on the Convention on Climate Change 
at the Paris Climate Conference in December.
Agreeing on SDGs is not a purely theoretical process. 
The key is turning them into strong public policies. It is 
first and foremost in the hands of Governments to pave 
the way towards sustained economic growth and human 
development. Both are dependent on good governance, 
strong and accountable institutions, the rule of law, and 
adherence  to  universally  agreed  human  rights  for  all, 
women and girls included. Freedom of expression and 
association, and access to independent media, including 
social  media  and  the  Internet,  are  integral  parts  of 
good  governance  and  the  rule  of  law.  These,  together 
with a transparent and efficient legal environment and 
fighting  corruption,  increase  competitiveness,  create 
new jobs and innovation. They also increase the well-
being  of  individuals  and  strengthen  their  connection 
with the State.
Thus, sustainability has to start at home if it is to 
work  on  a  global  scale.  Governments,  their  agencies 
and  ministries,  together  with  the  private  sector  and 
civil  society,  should  come  together  and  discuss  the 
implications  of  the  SDGs  for  their  policies.  Estonia 
also  faces  its  own  challenges  and  we  look  forward  to 
working on them within the newly agreed framework.
I  am  a  strong  advocate  of  the  opportunities  that 
information  and  communication  technologies  (ICT) 
can provide for development. What, for example, if it 
took less than five minutes and no accountants to get 
your  taxes  done?  What  if  95  per  cent  of  a  country’s 
citizens declared their income online and brought tax 
administration costs down to only 0.3 per cent of net 
tax  revenues?  All  of  these  issues,  signing  business 
contracts  or  official  documents  digitally  without 
leaving your office or scheduling a notary appointment, 
are all possible in Estonia, where we began to use ICT 
solutions  actively  when  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  were  discussed  15  years  ago  and  when  we  had 
rather limited resources available.
Today many see us as one of the most technologically 
advanced  countries  in  the  world.  Our  public  sector 
has  been  crucial  in  providing  a  favourable  legislative 
environment  as  well  as  in  funding  the  country’s 
key  technology  infrastructure  and  providing  online 
electronic  services  to  individuals  and  businesses. 
We  have  learned  that  the  smart  use  of  the  Internet 
and  digital  technology  can  be  an  essential  driver  of 
economic  growth  and  human  development.  We  also 
know that if we want the digital era to become a true 
success for each country and each member of society, 
we  require  strong  public  policies  —  something  that 
only Governments can provide. We in Estonia are ready 
to cooperate with other countries where our experience 
and knowledge are needed and would have or provide 
added value.
It  is  time  for  world  leaders  to  place  the  potential 
of  digital  technologies  at  the  top  of  the  development 
agenda. I am glad to co-chair the advisory panel of the 
World  Bank’s  World  Development  Report  2016.  The 
report, entitled “Digital Dividends”, will be the World 
Bank’s  most  influential  report  next  year.  It  examines 
how  the  Internet  can  be  a  force  for  development  and 
asks,  importantly,  what  is  required  to  unlock  the 
potential of still largely unrealized digital technologies. 
I invite the Assembly at this point to continue to discuss 
these issues tomorrow at 11 a.m. in Conference Room 
3 at the high-level panel discussion on development in 
the digital age.
In  conclusion,  pacta  sunt  servanda  agreements 
must be kept and no one should be left behind.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the President of the 
Republic of Estonia for his statement.
Mr. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of the Republic 
of Estonia, was escorted from the rostrum.
6/24 
15-29235
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.8
Co-Chair  Rasmussen: The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Benin.
Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the Republic of Benin, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
President Yayi (spoke in French): It is an immense 
pleasure for me to take the floor on behalf of the least 
developed countries (LDCs) at this Summit, which marks 
the happy end of a long process of intergovernmental 
negotiations,  the  mandate  of  which  was  established 
here  in  September  2013  at  the  high-level  meeting  of 
the General Assembly on the Millennium Development 
Goals. As agreed, we have come together now to adopt 
a new development agenda for the post-2015 period. I 
take this opportunity to congratulate the co-facilitators 
and  all  the  stakeholders  who  worked  so  hard  to  draft 
and  adopt  by  consensus  a  new  development  Agenda 
that is ambitious but realistic, the main goal of which is 
to achieve sustainable development by 2030.
Mr. Zinsou (Benin), Vice-President, took the Chair.
On  the  basis  of  the  experience  obtained  during 
the  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  and  inspired  by  the  commitments  undertaken 
at  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development and the entire global process to promote 
the  well-being  of  humankind, 
the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1),    to 
transform our world harmoniously addresses the three 
inclusive 
dimensions  of  sustainable  development: 
economic  growth,  social  sustainability  and 
the 
protection of the environment on behalf of present and 
future generations.
It  is  now  up  to  us  to  unite  our  energies  and  pool 
our resources to ensure the full implementation of the 
17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), taking the 
Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  into  account.  The  SDGs 
provide  us  with  guidelines  to  step  up  our  efforts  to 
complete  the  work  left  undone  by  the  MDGs.  If  we 
implement  them,  the  Goals  will  serve  as  powerful 
catalysts to place the human being at the centre of all our 
policies and strategies, because they have the potential 
not only to transform our lives, but to protect our planet 
by  restoring  human  dignity,  shared  prosperity  and 
equitable access to justice for all people.
Through  me,  the  LDCs  draw  attention  to  the 
importance of taking the specific issues of vulnerable 
countries into account. On the eve of the twenty-first 
session  of  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change,  to  be  held  in  Paris  in  December, 
the  priorities  of  States  in  their  strategies  to  promote 
development in the LDCs must be the cornerstone of all 
future action. LDCs, which emit few greenhouse gases 
but suffer the full brunt of the consequences of climate 
change, must enjoy particular attention as they prepare 
to  better  adapt,  through  low-carbon  programmes  and 
projects,  with  resiliency  to  the  harmful  effects  of 
claimet change. 
I  conclude  by  reiterating  the  commitment  of  the 
LDCs to assume ownership of their own development 
by  taking  bold  measures  in  the  areas  of  governance, 
transparency,  the  fight  against  corruption,  equity  and 
the mobilization of domestic resources.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
the President of the Republic of Benin for his statement.
Mr. Boni Yayi, President of the Republic of Benin, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Mali.
Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of  the 
Republic of Mali, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Keita (spoke in French): At the outset, 
I  wish  to  congratulate  Mr.  Lykketoft  on  his  well-
deserved election to head our work here. His long and 
rich  experience  as  a  statesman  is  a  guarantee  of  the 
success  of  this  Summit,  and  I  assure  him  of  the  full 
support of the delegation of Mali.
I  wish  to  convey  to  the  Assembly  the  warm 
congratulations of the entire Malian population, which, 
like other nations, is watching from their fields, factories 
and offices in the legitimate hope that we leaders of the 
world will take here and now relevant and courageous 
decisions  that  will  improve  living  conditions  for  our 
citizens. We can and must transform the world because 
that is what our peoples expect of us. 
In  order  to  reduce  the  suffering  of  populations 
living  in  abject  poverty  and  to  bring  them  human 
dignity, 15 years ago, at the beginning of this century, 
we launched a programme to implement the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). Today, without engaging 
in  an  exhaustive  review,  we  note  that  the  results  are 
mixed  and  vary  from  region  to  region,  country  to 
country, and Goal to Goal. In general, we must note that 
15-29235
7/24
A/70/PV.8 
26/09/2015
Goal 8, on the implementation of a global partnership 
for  development,  did  not  enjoy  the  commitment  and 
support that were given to the other seven.
Despite  the  difficult  context  of  the  multifaceted 
crisis in Mali, during the past 15 years we have been 
able to lower the rate of HIV/AIDS, increase the number 
of  children  attending  school,  provide  free  Caesarian 
sections  and  enhance  the  participation  of  the  people 
in  the  management  of  local  affairs  through  increased 
decentralization. In the field of food security, we have 
had additional significant achievements. I welcome the 
recognition  of  Mali’s  achievements  by  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations  at  its 
thirty-ninth session, in Rome.
We  can  and  must  improve  the  well-being  of  our 
populations.  I  am  therefore  especially  pleased  to  take 
part  in  this  Summit  to  adopt  historic  resolution  70/1, 
entitled “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development”. We are pleased to note that 
this ambitious programme focuses particular attention 
on  certain  groups  of  countries,  such  as  the  least 
developed countries, land-locked developing States and 
small  island  developing  States,  because  a  great  many 
people live in extreme and subhuman poverty in those 
States. We have many young migrants who are leaving 
developing  countries  and  going  to  their  own  deaths, 
a  fact  that  summons  us  all  to  work  to  improve  the 
development of our countries. 
Allow me to speak about developing countries that 
are  emerging  from  conflict,  countries  such  as  Mali. 
Such fragile countries must be the focus of particular 
attention  on  the  part  of  the  international  community. 
In fact, countries emerging from conflict must benefit 
from  the  distribution  of  the  dividends  for  peace  and 
reconstruction.  That  is  essential  for  the  progressive 
stabilization  of 
those  countries,  because  without 
education, health care, access to justice, the reduction 
of  hunger  and  extreme  poverty,  and  without  the  tools 
of production, the return of administration, populations 
and refugees, how can one emerge from a crisis? States 
that are emerging from conflict cannot overcome those 
challenges all on their own, much less achieve the goals 
contained in the declaration that we have adopted here 
in resolution 70/1.
In  the  particular  case  of  Mali,  I  have  always 
highlighted 
sustainable 
development  without  peace  and  without  security.  The 
Government is working every day, under my authority, 
cannot  be 
that 
there 
to  overcome  that  challenge.  Today,  I  am  pleased  to 
be able to state that all the Malian parties have, after 
eight long months of negotiation, signed an agreement 
for peace and reconciliation in Mali, as a result of the 
Algiers process and with the support of the international 
community. Here I renew my commitment for the State 
of Mali to honour all the commitments that it made in 
that  agreement.  However,  Mali,  owing  to  its  limited 
means,  needs  significant  support  from  the  countries 
and organizations that are its friends, so as to truly and 
effectively  implement  that  accord.  That  is  why,  from 
this rostrum, I call on the international community to 
mobilize  effective  technical,  material  and  financial 
resources,  which  are  essential  for  the  implementation 
of the agreement.
During  the  round  table  that  will  take  place  on 
22 October in Paris at the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development, the Government of Mali 
will, for its part, show itself to be resolutely committed 
to  the  implementation  of  the  Algiers  accord  and  will 
spare no effort to mobilize domestic resources.
From now until 2030 the only way for us to avoid 
this  Summit  becoming  like  all  the  others  is  for  us  to 
show our ability to work together and truly commit to 
a  global  partnership,  so  as  to  balance  the  integration 
of the three pillars of sustainable development, namely, 
the  social,  economic  and  environmental  aspects.  We 
must thus fully invest in this programme so as to win 
the bet and transform the world.
In  conclusion,  I  wish 
the 
commitment  of  Mali  to  take  part  in  the  achievement 
of  the  commitments  made  in  this  ambitious  new 
sustainable development Agenda.
to  reaffirm  here 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
the President of the Republic of Mali for his statement.
Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of  the 
Republic of Mali, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
Mr.  Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
President Ould Abdel Aziz (spoke in Arabic): At 
the  outset,  I  should  like  to  extend  my  sincere  thanks 
to His Excellency Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for 
8/24 
15-29235
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.8
the great efforts that he made to convene this Summit. 
I should also like to thank all Member States for their 
invaluable contributions in conceiving and formulating 
the  global  vision  of  a  joint  post-2015  development 
agenda. I should also like to pay tribute to all actors and 
partners who have had a significantly positive impact 
on this well-organized Summit.
This  Summit  represents  a  crucial  moment  and  an 
important turning point in the international development 
agenda  through  a  complete  cycle  of  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) and the adoption of a post-
2015 development agenda. This marks the beginning of 
the  implementation  of  sustainable  development  goals. 
It is the culmination of a path that was well managed 
and  a  high  level  of  partnership  that  has  armed  the 
international community with a new and ambitious long-
term programme based on a dual goal — improving the 
living conditions of the population and protecting our 
planet from the dangers of climate change.
included  numerous  stakeholders, 
The  post-2015  development  agenda  was 
the 
culmination  of  wide  and  deep-rooted  consultations 
held at the national, regional, and international levels. 
This 
including 
the  private  sectors,  civil  society, 
Governments, 
academia  and  development  partners.  It  is  a  broad 
representation  and  resulted  in  converging  views,  a 
guarantee for a joint development vision that translates 
specific priorities and reflects common concerns. That 
adds  greater  effectiveness  to  the  targets  set  by  the 
new development Agenda and enhances its chances of 
success.
At this critical juncture, as we set new targets,  we 
should keep in mind what we have learned from the past. 
The Millennium Development Goals in particular have 
enabled  the  realization  of  significant  achievements, 
among which are the continued decline in the level of 
poverty  and  the  improvement  of  access  to  education 
and  health  opportunities.  It  is  clear  proof  of  the 
importance of developing a comprehensive framework 
as a reference to mobilize development efforts. As part 
of the new development Agenda, we applaud what we 
have observed with respect to  improving the means of 
action  and  the  level  of  coordination,  support,  follow-
up  and  implementation  mechanisms.  The  eradication 
of poverty and the achievement of  sustainable growth 
in  the  context  of  a  peaceful  and  sound  environment 
requires  us  to  show  a  solid will  to  reach  the  desired 
outcome.
The post-2015 Agenda faces new ambitions dangers. 
It also follows and expands the traditional development 
objectives and pays special attention to environmental 
issues,  which  are  no  longer  just  a  development  issue 
but  have  become  a  direct  challenge  that  threatens  the 
survival of our planet. The reorganization of priorities 
reflects  a  sound  vision  that  underpins  our  approach, 
which  is  necessarily  relevant  to  the  objectives  of 
development,  with 
that  are  continually 
changing. 
realities 
In  the  same  context,  the  aggravation  and  scopeof 
security  threats  needs  to  be  taken  into  account.  The 
multiplicity of acts of terrorism, the spread of organized 
crime and the growth of illegal economic activities in 
all parts of the world are all obstacles to development 
and pose a real risk to the stability and survival of many 
countries.  These  facts  compel  us  to  develop  a  vision 
of  an  organic  and  mutually  dependent  relationship 
between security and development.
National  solutions  are  no  longer  able  to  meet 
security threats that are complex in nature and cross-
border in structure and objectives. We are aware of the 
situation and have therefore launched with our brothers 
from Burkina Faso, Mali, the Niger and Chad, during 
the  Summit  held  in  Nouakchott  in  February  2014,  an 
initiative  that  brings  us  together  in  an  institutional 
and  development  framework  that  focuses  on  security 
and  development  issues.  The  Group  of  Five  (G-5) 
Sahel, which emerged from that initiative, was created 
according  to  a  multidimensional  approach  that  would 
respond  to  the  challenges  of  current  reality  and 
would  develop  plans  for  the  future.  It  is  not  only  a 
framework for security cooperation, but is also a space 
for  convergence,  integration  and  concerted  efforts 
to  stimulate  economic  growth  and  employment,  and 
improve  infrastructure,  basic  services  and  regional 
integration.
In this context, the G-5 Sahel offers a programme 
of investment in harmony with the goals of sustainable 
development,  and  respects  national  and  regional 
priorities  and  builds  on  realistic,  convincing  and 
coherent  objectives.  This  regional  effort  deserves 
the  strong  support  of  our  partners.  It  is  a  qualitative 
addition to sustainable development and security in the 
Sahel  region  and  stability  in  Africa  and  the  world  at 
large.
Mr. Yayi (Benin), Vice-President, took the Chair.
15-29235
9/24
A/70/PV.8 
26/09/2015
Mauritania has in recent years made an economic 
leap  thanks  to  the  adoption  of  rational  policies  and  a 
new approach in the conduct of public affairs, enabling 
it  to  restore  macroeconomic  stability,  and  our  assets 
and reserves have helped us to withstand the economic 
crisis and the recent severe regression in the prices of 
raw materials. These policies have led to increasing the 
levels of investment. 
its  drive 
As  part  of 
to  achieve  sustainable 
development and to accelerate the achievement of the 
MDGs,  the  State  set  up  a  plan  of  action  to  combat 
poverty.  We  identified  the  strengths  and  weaknesses 
of our previous plans and reviewed the long-term and 
medium-term targets in the framework of a new vision 
for economic development in my country. These efforts 
coincided with increasing the per capita share of gross 
domestic product and a reduction of poverty in general 
and  in  rural  areas  in  particular.  During  the  past  six 
years poverty has fallen by 11 per cent.
At the social level, Mauritania has made significant 
progress in  the  framework  of its firm commitment to 
the goals of sustainable development. The State has put 
youth issues at the forefront of its development policies 
and  focused  on  rehabilitating  and  training  young 
people  according  to  approaches  designed  to  enable 
them to access the labour market and to contribute to 
the development of our national economy and engage in 
political work, as well as provide them with soft loans 
and rehabilitated arable lands for agriculture.
We  established  an  agency  for  social  solidarity  to 
focus  on  fighting  poverty,  dealing  with  vulnerable 
social groups through the provision of health services 
and education, and the financing of income-generating 
projects throughout the national territory. The State has 
also paid great attention to persons with special needs. 
We have worked to integrate them into the civil service 
and private sector to give them more opportunities to 
participate  in  all  walks  of  life.  We  adopted  a  policy 
of  affirmative  action  in  order  to  promote  the  role  of 
women in an effort to further gender equity, which has 
enabled women in our country to occupy high positions 
in the Administration. They now participate in sectors 
that for decades used to be reserved for men. We have 
introduced a quota for women in the National Assembly.
In conclusion, we hope that this Summit will be a 
successful start to the implementation of the post-2015 
development Agenda. We also hope that it will exceed 
the level of success achieved in the implementation of 
the Millennium Development Goals.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
the President of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania for 
his statement.
Mr.  Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz,  President  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Mauritania, was escorted from 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of 
State of the Transition of the Central African Republic.
Ms. Catherine Samba-Panza, Head of State of the 
Transition  of  the  Central  African  Republic,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
Head  of  State  Samba-Panza  (spoke  in  French): 
My country, the Central African Republic, is honoured 
to take part, alongside the other countries of the world, 
in  this  special  meeting  that  is,  inter  alia,  reviewing 
the  progress  achieved  by  the  States  that  signed  the 
Millennium  Declaration,  specifically  their  progress 
in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). I wish to take this opportunity to express to 
the Secretary-General and to delegations here today, as 
well  as  to  the  international  community,  the  gratitude 
of the Central African people for the multidimensional 
support  provided  to  the  Government  of  the  Central 
African  Republic  since  the  Millennium  Summit  that 
took place in the year 2000.
The Central African Republic was already in crisis 
in the year 2000 when the process began. It already bore 
the  scars  of  traumas  linked  to  the  after-effects  of  the 
crises at the end of the 1990s and of those that followed 
in  the  next  decades.  Constant  political  instability  has 
placed  the  Central  African  Republic’s  population  in 
a  situation  of  extreme  vulnerability,  with  dreadful 
socioeconomic indicators. There is no need to list them 
all here.
In  such  conditions  it  has  been  difficult  for  my 
country  to  respect  the  commitments  that  it  made 
voluntarily,  even  if  some  gains  were  made  in  a  few 
indicators  in  2010,  notably  in  school  attendance  for 
girls,  access  to  drinking  water  and  maternal  health, 
which led to a certain hope. But that hope was lost in 
2012 when the most recent crisis broke out, one more 
deadly and more destructive.
The Central African Republic has therefore deviated 
far from the path of the MDGs. It has become a fragile 
and vulnerable State, with more than 80 per cent of its 
population living below the poverty line. That poverty 
10/24 
15-29235
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.8
is  entrenched  and  has  increased  in  some  areas  of  the 
country. In those regions political and military groups 
still  rule,  exacerbating  insecurity  and  pillaging  local 
resources and the State’s revenues.
At a time when the commitments that we all made 
in the MDGs are coming to an end and we are preparing 
to  commit  to  the  post-2015  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs),  we  must  be  clear,  on  the  eve  of  the 
deadline  for  the  MDG  process,  that  none  of  the  eight 
MDGs  have  been  achieved  by  the  Central  African 
Republic. Nevertheless, efforts overall have been made 
to inscribe the MDG agenda into our national priorities.
Without  glossing  over  our  commitments,  I  have 
come here to speak more particularly of the future, of the 
possibility of creating conditions for a Central African 
Republic free of the demons of division and the scourges 
of poverty and economic marginalization. I also want 
to emphasize the new horizon opening before us, and, 
in that connection, I solemnly declare that my country 
supports the 17 post-2015 SDGs, whose preparation has 
for months mobilized every State. But we know that the 
challenges that await us are considerable. We are aware 
of the urgent need to accomplish the unfinished work 
of the MDG agenda. We must also integrate the steps 
to follow and, in other words, maintain our efforts to 
achieve the new SDGs. For our part, the socioeconomic 
development  stakeholders  in  my  country,  beginning 
with the Government, will be mobilized so that specific 
actions can be undertaken.
Poverty  is  not  inevitable.  The  situation  in  the 
Central  African  Republic  is  not  without  hope.  While 
sharing  the  same  concerns  of  all  fragile  States,  the 
Central  African  Republic  has  been  able  to  show, 
in  its  recent  history,  its  will  to  transform  itself  and 
become a responsible State, one that is responsible for 
the  well-being  of  its  population.  Under  my  guidance, 
governmental  action,  supported  by  the  international 
community, has enabled the creation of an environment 
favourable  to  national  reconciliation,  the  resumption 
of  the  functioning  of  public  administration  and  the 
restarting  of  socioeconomic  activities  throughout  the 
land. All of that should lead to a new vision of a people 
that  is  renewed,  like  a  phoenix  reborn  from  its  own 
ashes.
Our  desire 
and 
for  dialogue,  peace 
the 
re-establishment  of  the  State  has  been  shown  to  the 
world  by  the  people  of  the  Central  African  Republic. 
But  willpower  alone  is  not  enough  without  a  network 
of  partners  who  are  committed  to  support  the  efforts 
of my country to develop. A Central African Republic 
with less instability for the population and with better 
prospects  for  prosperity  to  be  shared  tomorrow  is 
what  we  all  want  for  ourselves,  our  children,  our 
grandchildren and all future generations. 
Such a Central African Republic remains possible 
and is almost within reach. It is being built every day 
through  acts  of  progress  that  reverse  the  negative 
trends and envisage a better life — and why not even 
a good life — for our vulnerable populations. That is 
not possible without durable peace and stability in the 
institutions that must lead our country. Unfortunately, 
the  Central  African  Republic’s  population  continues 
to experience violence of all kinds, which exacerbates 
their humanitarian situation.
In conclusion, please allow me to state that today, 
Saturday,  26  September,  marks  almost  100  days  until 
the end of 2015, the last year to achieve the Millennium 
Development  Goals.  We  must  take  advantage  of  the 
last 100 days to take urgent and active steps and work 
with  conviction  and  determination  to  achieve  the 
MDGs, in other words, to sow the seeds of hope in the 
Central  African  Republic  and  vulnerable  populations 
everywhere, so as to create a world that is more just and 
more harmonious.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
the  Head  of  State  of  the  Transition  of  the  Central 
African Republic for her statement.
Ms. Catherine Samba-Panza, Head of State of the 
Transition  of  the  Central  African  Republic,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Captains 
Regent of the Republic of San Marino.
Mr. Andrea Belluzzi I and Mr. Roberto Venturini I, 
Captains  Regent  of  the  Republic  of  San  Marino, 
were escorted to the rostrum.
Captain  Regent  Belluzzi  I  and  Captain  Regent 
Venturini I (spoke in Italian; English text provided by 
the delegation): In the year in which the United Nations 
celebrates  its  seventieth  anniversary,  we  can  state 
without any doubt that the Organization has played and 
continues to play a key role for peace and security in 
the world, for the protection and promotion of human 
dignity,  for  the  strengthening  of  democracy  and  the 
rule of law, as well as for the affirmation of justice and 
international law.
15-29235
11/24
A/70/PV.8 
26/09/2015
Throughout  its  history,  the  United  Nations  has 
been  called  upon  to  serve  as  an  essential  point  of 
reference  for  the  international  community  and  for 
each individual. We are now faced with a considerable 
challenge, namely, to shape our future and that of our 
planet through a strong political consensus based on a 
model of sustainable global development to be applied 
by all. 
The  experience  gained  from  the  implementation 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  has 
made  an  important  contribution  to  the  definition  of 
an  innovative  and  universal  post-2015  development 
agenda.  The  Millennium  Development  Goals 
lie 
at  the  very  heart  of  the  agenda.  They  have  been  an 
extraordinary  stimulus  to  effective,  coordinated  and 
collective action aimed at overcoming the most serious 
global emergencies — hunger and malnutrition, the lack 
of  access  to  basic  health  care  and  primary  education, 
infant  and  maternal  mortality,  gender  inequality,  the 
lack of control of serious communicable diseases, and 
environmental and climate problems.
With  the  adoption  of  the  new  agenda  in  the  form 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1), we hope that the process started with 
the Millennium Development Goals can be completed 
and  that  we  will  move  forward  towards  a  sustainable 
development model in which the economic, social and 
environmental dimensions are intertwined. Each country 
has a responsibility to the international community for 
implementing the new Sustainable Development Goals. 
To that end, we must all strive to develop innovative, 
effective and transparent institutions at all levels, while 
committing to duly complying with existing agendas.
It  is  essential  to  mobilize  the  resources  required 
for  the  implementation  of  the  new  Agenda  through  a 
new  global  partnership  for  sustainable  development 
that  should  direct  its  action  towards  the  needs  of  the 
weakest  and  most  vulnerable  groups  in  society.  In 
that  sense,  the  Republic  of  San  Marino  believes  that 
the  United  Nations  role  is  to  monitor  progress  in  the 
implementation of the new Agenda. We therefore need 
to establish a set of specific and universal indicators, 
as well as to create an effective control mechanism to 
assess  progress  and  identify  any  shortcomings  to  be 
addressed. That mechanism must work effectively at all 
levels — national, regional and global — and must be 
inclusive and reliable.
The Republic of San Marino is a small State with 
limited resources, but it has managed to create optimal 
living  conditions  for  its  population.  However,  it  also 
feels a responsibility towards the rest of the world and 
is committed to contributing to the achievement of the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  In  that  regard,  our 
contribution  is  not  only  financial,  which  is  a  priority 
and  essential  at  this  time,  but  also  cultural  through 
the  education  of  the  younger  generations  in  order  to 
promote an innate culture of hospitality and solidarity, 
together with respect for sustainable development.
Too  many  people  in  too  many  countries  are  still 
living in a state of absolute poverty; many women and 
children struggle daily for mere survival. Food security 
is  a  luxury  for  hundreds  of  millions  of  people,  as  is 
access to drinking water, health services and education. 
The adoption of the post-2015 development agenda is a 
unique moment in the life of the United Nations, whose 
historic  importance  and  scope  will  be  determined  by 
the future and collective action of all Member States, 
whether  large  or  small.  The  Republic  of  San  Marino 
will  make  its  contribution  by  cooperating  effectively 
with  all  countries  for  the  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
the Captains Regent of the Republic of San Marino for 
their statement.
Mr. Andrea Belluzzi I and Mr. Roberto Venturini I, 
Captains  Regent  of  the  Republic  of  San  Marino, 
were escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Dominican Republic.
Mr.  Danilo  Medina  Sánchez,  President  of  the 
Dominican Republic, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Medina  Sánchez  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
It is an honour to be here representing the people and 
Government of the Dominican Republic at an event that, 
for our country, is of the utmost importance. The newly 
adopted  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
with  its  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  is 
both  an  inspiring  document  and  a  detailed  road  map 
for the solution of the most important challenges facing 
humankind today (see resolution 70/1).
The  fight  against  poverty,  inequality  and  climate 
change  seeks  to  deal  with  interrelated  problems 
affecting the lives of billions of men and women. Those 
problems are already part of the agenda of our country 
and,  for  that  reason,  we  embrace  enthusiastically 
12/24 
15-29235
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.8
its  adoption  worldwide.  We  welcome  this  shared 
commitment to implementing sustainable development 
and maintaining a long-term vision. That same vision 
is sometimes threatened by opportunism and the haste 
imposed by an increasingly connected society.
In  fact, 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  were  a  source  of  inspiration  that  helped  us 
formulate our own national development strategy 2030. 
That Strategy has led us to focus our efforts, consolidate 
the practice of accountability and face challenges and 
weaknesses, but, above all, it has taught us the power of 
the unity of purpose, will and actions. It also guided us 
in the strategy that is the road map for the conversion of 
the Dominican Republic into an economic, socially and 
environmentally sustainable society with a social and 
democratic foundation based on the rule of law.
The  current  Administration  began  a  campaign 
to  improve  opportunities  and  the  capabilities  of  the 
population, as well as their living conditions. We have 
done  that  by  protecting  early  childhood  from  zero 
to  5  years  of  age  with  advances  in  education,  such 
as  the  implementation  of  the  extended  school,  the 
unprecedented expansion of school infrastructure and 
improvements in the quality of education. But we are 
also  working  to  reduce  inequalities  in  our  productive 
sector, support agricultural producers and our stations 
for agricultural mechanization, and improve financial 
inclusion, training and access to technologies.
We  have  achieved  the  emblematic  objectives  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  including  the 
reduction  of  extreme  poverty  by  more  than  half;  the 
actual drop was from 16.6 per cent to 5.8 per cent. We 
have  also  comfortably  reached  the  goal  of  reducing 
malnutrition,  which  dropped  from  34.4  per  cent  to 
12 per cent, and the established goal of gender parity at 
each of our levels of education. 
However,  we  are  aware  that  we  must  continue  to 
work on the goals on which we still have to improve, 
and they are certainly part of our highest priority. We 
are  delighted  moreover  by  the  parallels  between  our 
national development strategy and the new 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development. We also welcome the fact 
that the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals 
will provide us with a standardized assessment system 
with which to compare experiences with one another. 
From now on, we will orient every effort towards making 
the new vision embodied in the 17 SDGs a reality, and 
we  declare  our  commitment  to  adapt  and  assimilate 
them into our National Development Strategy and the 
instruments of the public administration system.
We  are  also  pleased  to  see  how  His  Holiness 
Pope Francis has become one of the leading spokesmen 
for the cause of sustainable development, which is the 
cause of the poor and the cause of future generations. 
His  encyclical  “Praise  be  to  you”  has  come  at  just 
the  right  time,  not  only  by  taking  up  the  scientific 
arguments  in  the  climate  debate  but  by  going  beyond 
science,  recovering 
the  full  moral  dimension  of 
sustainable  development.  To  us  Dominicans  who  live 
on  a  small  island  with  many  people  still  suffering 
poverty and particularly vulnerable to climate change, 
that  dimension  appears  as  an  everyday  reality.  But 
precisely for that reason, we in the Dominican Republic 
are aware that poverty and inequality are not inevitable 
conditions  dictated  by  fate  but  challenges  for  which 
we can and must prepare and with which we must deal 
accountably and efficiently.
We  are  therefore  fully  committed  to  the  goal  of 
sustainable development. We hope to find together the 
will, as requested by Pope Francis, to escape the sin of 
indifference, to love the common good, to protect the 
weak and to care for the world we live in.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I thank the 
President of the Dominican Republic for his statement.
Mr.  Danilo  Medina  Sánchez,  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Zambia.
from 
to 
Mr.  Edgar  Chagwa  Lungu,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zambia, was escorted to the rostrum.
President  Lungu:  Allow  me 
join  other 
dignitaries  in  congratulating  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly for convening this landmark United 
Nations  Summit  on  the  adoption  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda. I also wish, on behalf of the people 
of  Zambia,  to  applaud  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
unwavering commitment to nurturing the consensus of 
Member States on the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs).  I  should  also  like  to  express  gratitude  to  the 
co-facilitators for their distinguished leadership during 
the  preparation  process.  We  further  applaud  Member 
States  and  Observers  for  their  tireless  efforts  and  the 
15-29235
13/24
A/70/PV.8 
26/09/2015
constructive  engagement  that  culminated  in  bringing 
this momentous task to fruition.
This Summit will be seen in the annals of history as 
the meeting that witnessed the end of the Millennium 
Development  Goals  process  while  ushering  in  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  and  the  post-
2015 development agenda through the adoption of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in resolution 
70/1.  Zambia  wishes  to  reaffirm  its  commitment 
to  embracing  a  new  common  development  Agenda 
that  will  help  enhance  development  partnerships 
among  Member  States.  Zambia  acknowledges  and 
appreciates  the  input  from  important  developmental 
processes  that  have  contributed  to  the  success  of  the 
new  development  Agenda,  notable  among  them  being 
the  third  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development  and  the  High-level  Political  Forum  on 
Sustainable Development.
The  multidimensional  nature  of 
this  process 
signifies our determination to have a global development 
agenda  that  is  responsive  to  the  needs  of  the  present 
generation  without  compromising  the  ability  of  the 
world  to  provide  for  the  needs  of  future  generations. 
To that effect Zambia looks forward to starting a new 
development  era  in  2016,  with  renewed  vigour  and 
focus and the spirit of leaving no one behind.
On that point, I thank the Assembly for yesterday’s 
adoption of the ground-breaking 2030 Agenda. Let me 
also thank His Holiness Pope Francis for his candid and 
inspiring remarks on the need for nations to take seriously 
the question of climate change and the protection of the 
environment for sustainable development. I am happy 
to report that, in the seventh national development plan 
of our country that we are developing, climate change 
ranks among our top priorities.
I am also glad to report that, at the country level, 
a  number  of  consultations  have  been  undertaken 
with  various  stakeholders  with  a  view  to  putting  the 
fundamental provisions agreed upon by Member States 
into  context.  Coincidentally,  for  us  the  SDGs  and  the 
post-2015  development  agenda  have  come  at  a  time 
when  the  country  is  developing  its  seventh  national 
development  plan.  That  gives  us  greater  latitude  to 
effectively  domesticate  the  various  provisions  of  the 
global initiatives. 
We  are  glad  to  note  that  the  SDGs  have  focused 
on a number of development issues, such as maternal 
health, poverty, gender equality, water and sanitation, 
land  degradation  and  climate  change,  among  others, 
issues that our country is determined to confront in the 
post-2015 era. I wish to reiterate Zambia’s commitment 
to ensuring the use of evidence-based priority-setting 
and targeted mechanisms aimed at achieving inclusive 
socioeconomic development.
Zambia,  being  a  least  developed  and  landlocked 
developing country, will require support in completing 
the unfinished business of the MDGs, especially in the 
area of education, health, water and sanitation, gender 
equality, agriculture, and science and technology. With 
regard to technology, Zambia underscores the need to 
forge  South-South  technology-transfer  cooperation  as 
an essential component to accelerate the implementation 
of the SDGs and the post-2015 development agenda.
proactively 
socioeconomic 
addressing 
I  wish  to  reiterate  what  I  said  at  the  High-level 
Meeting on the follow-up to the second United Nations 
Conference  on  Landlocked  Developing  Countries, 
held  in  Zambia  in  June,  that  there  will  be  a  need  for 
the United Nations Office for South-South Cooperation 
to  review  its  pledge  and  commitment  to  establish 
centres  in  those  countries  for  purposes  of  technology 
transfer. Being a pilot country, Zambia is ready to fully 
participate in such an initiative and is also committed to 
institute  strategies  that  will  promote  environmentally 
development 
sustainable 
aimed 
at 
employment-creation 
opportunities,  particularly  for  youth  and  women,  in 
order to reduce poverty.
My  Government 
importance 
of  mobilizing 
resources,  both  domestically  and 
internationally,  for  development.  For  that  reason, 
official  development  assistance  and  foreign  direct 
investment  continue  to  play  an  important  role  in 
fostering  sustainable  development.  I  therefore  call 
upon the developed countries to fulfil their pledges. As 
developed countries honour their pledges, it is critical 
that  developing  countries  put  in  place  comprehensive 
institutional  frameworks  that  will  identify,  promote 
and facilitate partnerships aimed at creating a platform 
for a shared vision that resonates well with the private 
sector so as to bring about a win-win situation between 
the investors and the communities.
recognizes 
the 
take 
Let  me 
this  opportunity 
that 
sustainable  development  presupposes  the  existence  of 
peace. In that regard Zambia has been actively engaged 
in  peacekeeping  missions,  particularly  in  the  Central 
African Republic and in the Sudan. We are seeking the 
to  stress 
14/24 
15-29235
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.8
support of European countries to help in the capacity-
building of our troops so that they are better equipped 
to carry out such noble assignments. In the same vein, 
Zambia  sees  counter-terrorism  initiatives  as  critically 
important 
in  preserving  peace  and  stability.  In 
collaboration with regional and international partners, 
Zambia  remains  committed  to  ensuring  that  we  curb 
that scourge.
peace  and  well-being  for  humankind,  it  is  logical  to 
ask  ourselves  whether  we  have,  in  fact,  risen  to  the 
challenge of creating a peaceful, stable and developed 
world that guarantees the well-being of human persons. 
It is obvious that, despite the efforts made by our States 
to  achieve  those  goals,  major  challenges  persist  that 
make  it  difficult  to  achieve  the  goals  of  an  inclusive 
and sustainable development. 
In  conclusion,  Zambia  pledges  to  give  primacy 
to  SDG  implementation  as  a  means  to  stimulate  its 
development  trajectory,  which  takes  into  account  all 
three  pillars  of  sustainable  development.  I  also  call 
upon  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  follow-up  actions 
and  review  processes  so  as  to  promote  the  cross-
pollination of ideas and the exchange of best practices. 
That  will  enable  better  global  outcomes  on  the  SDGs 
and the post-2015 development Agenda. I am confident 
that  this  Summit  will  provide  us  with  an  opportunity 
to emerge stronger and more focused on fulfilling the 
post-2015 developmentAgenda.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I thank the 
President of the Republic of Zambia for his statement.
Mr. Edgar Chagwa Lungu, President of the Republic 
of Zambia, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President 
in  French): 
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  a  statement  by  the 
Vice-President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea.
(spoke 
Mr. 
Teodoro  Nguema  Obiang  Mangue, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial 
Guinea, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Nguema  Obiang  Mangue 
(Equatorial 
Guinea) (spoke in Spanish): The Republic of Equatorial 
Guinea congratulates the High-level Panel of Eminent 
Persons  on  the  Post-2015  Development  Agenda  on 
their  successful  work.  We  also  wish  to  congratulate 
His Excellency Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on his 
foresight  in  designating  that  High-level  Panel,  which, 
with  the  effective  support  of  the  team  of  negotiators, 
has prepared and brought us to the recent adoption of 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  with 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  and  their 
financing mechanisms (resolution 70/1).
Fifteen  years  after  the  Declaration  of  the  United 
Nations  on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(resolution 55/2) and on the occasion of the seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations, 
whose  fundamental  objective  is  to  create  a  world  of 
In  that  regard,  we  appeal  to  the  international 
community  to  act  on  the  principle  of  solidarity  so  as 
to  end  terrorism,  piracy,  organized  crime,  man-made 
instabilities,  interventionism  and  the  inefficiencies  of 
the international mechanism of development assistance, 
among  others,  which  currently  represent  obstacles  to 
the development of countries. 
With regard to the achievement of the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  we  would  like  to  point 
out  that,  in  adopting  in  2007  the  national  plan  for 
economic  and  social  development  entitled  Horizon 
2020, the Republic of Equatorial Guinea formalized the 
means to achieve the MDGs, and as a result, the pace 
at which they were achieved was sped up considerably. 
In fact, one of the four main objectives of the national 
plan  for  economic  and  social  development  consists  in 
strengthening human capital and improving the quality 
of life of our citizens. Our national plan reflects all of 
the aspects included in the SDGs, which we have just 
adopted,  such  as  building  infrastructure  to  improve 
productivity,  scaled  up  diversification  and  economic 
growth, and implementing the sort of governance that 
guarantees  the  representation  and  participation  of 
citizens.
Success  in  implementing  the  first  phase  of  the 
national economic and social development plan has led to 
significant progress towards achieving the MDGs. The 
Republic of Equatorial Guinea is proud to have achieved 
the following: a reduction by more than 50 per cent in 
the  number  of  persons  living  below  the  poverty  line, 
improved access by children to education, an increase 
in the literacy rate of women to 96 per cent, a reduction 
in child mortality of more than 50 per cent, a reduction 
in maternal mortality of 81 per cent, the improvement 
of health services and infrastructure as well as access 
to  them,  a  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  malaria  and 
the strengthening of public awareness of the dangers of 
HIV/AIDS as well as free access to treatment, improved 
conservation of nature and a cleaner environment, and 
improved public finances through increases in exports 
and  lower  costs  for  telecommunication  services.  A 
15-29235
15/24
A/70/PV.8 
26/09/2015
report on the achievement of the MDGs in Equatorial 
Guinea has been submitted to this high-level meeting 
for its consideration.
Coming to the end of the period for achieving the 
MDGs, which focused to a great extent on combating 
poverty,  it  is  obvious  that  we  need  to  devise  a  new 
global  development  strategy  to  include  the  current 
and  future  concerns  of  humankind,  such  as  climate 
change,  sustainable  consumption,  innovation  and  the 
importance  of  peace  and  justice  for  all.  Against  that 
backdrop we would like to conclude by reiterating the 
commitment of the Government and the people of the 
Republic of Equatorial Guinea to the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development, which we have just adopted.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
the Vice-President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea 
for his statement.
Mr. 
Teodroro  Nguema  Obiang  Mangue, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial 
Guinea, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President 
in  French): 
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  a  statement  by  the 
Vice-President of the Republic of Burundi.
(spoke 
Mr. Joseph Butore, Vice-President of the Republic 
of Burundi, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr.  Butore  (Burundi)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
preparatory  process  for  the  post-2015  development 
agenda was very long and arduous, but the determination 
and  commitment  of  the  various  delegations  remained 
unshakeable. That is an eloquent sign that proves that, 
if  we  remain  guided  by  this  spirit  and  maintain  this 
dynamic, the poverty of our peoples will be eradicated 
by 2030, and this we believe. Members will recall that 
many  times  during  the  past  three  years,  it  seemed 
almost  impossible  to  conclude  an  agreement  among 
the 193 Members of the United Nations on a large and 
significant  development  agenda  that  would  take  into 
account all the aspects of well-being for humanity and 
the planet.
The  way  to  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
began, we could say, on two parallel paths, and for many 
years no one could see how those two paths would join 
together into one agenda or if that joining could even 
happen.  One  path  began  when  the  General  Assembly 
adopted  resolution  64/236  in  2009  and  decided  to 
hold  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development (Rio+20) in 2012. The second path began 
in 2010 during the Review Summit on the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  when  in  the  outcome 
document the Secretary-General was asked to elaborate 
recommendations to move forward on the development 
agenda for the United Nations beyond 2015 (resolution 
65/1).
It was only in 2014 that a way forward was found, 
combining the two paths and creating a new and vast 
programme  that  was  built  on  the  MDGs  and  would 
complete  what  they  were  unable  to  achieve,  all  the 
while  taking  into  account  the  three  dimensions  of 
sustainable  development  and  not 
leaving  anyone 
behind. That project was said to be, like most things, 
easier  said  than  done,  but  thankfully  the  final  results 
represented  a  good  balance  between  the  interests  and 
concerns  of  those  involved.  Burundi  welcomes  the 
progress achieved during the final negotiation session 
on  the  post-2015  agenda,  which  has  brought  together 
the  paths  of  the  environment  and  development.  We 
welcome  the  fact  that  the  post-2015  era  rests  on  two 
types of heritage, that of the Millennium Summit and 
that of the United Nations conferences on sustainable 
development.
Just  three  months  before  the  end  of  the  MDGs, 
optimism  reigns,  with  the  knowledge  that  the  works 
launched and implemented has led to an unprecedented 
global  commitment.  Reports  on  this  issue  note  that 
poverty has decreased over the 15 years that followed 
the  start  of  the  new  millennium.  In  short,  significant 
progress has been made on the basis of new approaches 
generated  by  the  MDGs  in  terms  of  great  changes  in 
methodologies to combat poverty. 
Despite tangible progress made through the MDGs, 
the  world  still  faces  a  multitude  of  challenges,  such 
as  extreme  poverty,  climate  change,  environmental 
degradation and health crises. In our globalized world, 
no  State  can  find  a  solution  to  these  transborder 
problems by acting alone. Contrary to the MDGs, which 
were focused on the poor populations of the South, the 
strength of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
lies  in  the  balanced  integration  of  the  economic, 
environmental  and  social  dimensions  of  sustainable 
development, which are universally applicable.
Africa remains the poorest continent on the planet. 
The challenges to overcome for sustainable development 
remain at the forefront. The results of the MDGs have 
certainly shown that progress has been made, but the 
gap  between  Africa  and  other  regions  of  the  world  is 
quite large. If the developed countries plan to continue 
16/24 
15-29235
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.8
to assist developing countries, notably those of Africa, 
with the SDGs, those concerned must take ownership 
of  discussions  on  their  own  development  and  work 
towards it. Thus ambitious programmes for education, 
health  care,  economic  infrastructure  and  employment 
must be developed, with coherent financial plans that 
are sustainable over the long term. The main priorities 
for  Africa  should  be  to  improve  security,  economic 
and political governance and the fiscal system so that 
countries can free up more domestic resources. 
Co-Chair Rasmussen returned to the Chair.
We hope that this Summit will be marked not only 
by  great  steps  forward  but  also  by  concerted  action 
very  much  expected  by  the  peoples  and  their  planet. 
The  world  is  meeting  here  to  adopt  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  This  is  a  universal 
agreement that is decisive, even revolutionary, and that 
helps us to celebrate this occasion. It is a well-deserved 
and  well-received  gift  for  a  world  fraught  with  wars 
and  humanitarian  crises,  sectarianism  and  violent 
extremism,  new  types  of  international  domination, 
poverty, inequality, climate change and environmental 
degradation.  By  adopting  this  accord,  Governments 
resolutely commit to act for dignity, security, prosperity 
and  the  rights  of  men  and  women  in  our  common 
humanity. The challenges that we will face in the next 
days is to mobilize all stakeholders to move quickly to 
put into play the promises made in this Agendam with 
its unequalled ambitions.
Like other communities of nations throughout the 
world  on  all  five  continents,  Burundi  will  design  its 
development efforts taking into account the unanimous 
will  to  implement  a  new  global  partnership  based  on 
the  common  goal  of  the  eradication  of  poverty  and 
the transformation of economies through harmonious, 
sustainable  development  that  leaves  no  one  behind. 
Long live the family of the United Nations!
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Vice-President 
of the Republic of Burundi for his statement.
Mr. Joseph Butore, Vice-President of the Republic 
of Burundi, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen: The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  a  statement  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for Finance, Economic Affairs and Social Security of 
Saint Lucia.
Mr.  Kenny  Davis  Anthony,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister 
for  Finance,  Economic  Affairs  and 
Social Security of Saint Lucia, was escorted to the 
rostrum.
Mr.  Anthony  (Saint  Lucia):  Fifteen  years  ago,  I 
addressed this body on the occasion of the Millennium 
Summit  (see  A/55/PV.5),  which  adopted  the  eight 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  I  said  then 
that we were gathered to reconfirm that the principles 
of the United Nations system could lead our world into 
a new millennium with an expectation of freedom from 
poverty,  freedom  from  hunger,  freedom  from  war, 
freedom from the dictatorship of the mighty, freedom 
for us to enjoy our right to development. I spoke of the 
unique challenges confronting small island developing 
States (SIDS) like mine.
Fifteen years later, very little has changed for most 
small island developing States. My country’s share of 
the  global  space  has  never  before  been  more  affected 
by  policies  and  decisions  taken  beyond  its  borders. 
We  are  affected  by  multiple  economic,  social  and 
environmental crises that are having profound impacts 
on our Caribbean island States. Despite some progress 
in the implementation of the Millennium Development 
Goals, the promise of a world free of poverty, hunger, 
war  and  dictatorships,  in  the  words  of  the  late  Haile 
Selassie and brought to verse by Bob Marley, remains 
but a fleeting illusion, to be pursued but never attained.
This year is particularly important for developing 
countries 
the  challenge 
of  charting  a  viable  path  to  balanced,  sustainable 
development. In March we gathered in Sendai to agree 
on  a  global  framework  for  disaster  risk  reduction. 
Yet,  events  in  Saint  Lucia’s  sister  island  of  Dominica 
following the passage of Tropical Storm Erika just over 
one month ago serve to underscore just how vulnerable 
our countries are to natural disasters. The storm killed 
dozens  of  citizens  and  displaced  hundreds,  who  are 
now  unable  to  earn  a  living,  and  resulted  in  damage 
to almost 100 per cent of that country’s gross domestic 
product.
that  are  grappling  with 
Unfortunately, Erika was merely one in a long and 
continuing series of extreme weather events that wreak 
havoc  with  lives,  livelihoods  and  economies  across 
our region. My own country, Saint Lucia, has suffered 
through two major storms and three severe droughts in 
the past five years. That means we are constantly going 
through  debilitating  cycles  of  repair  and  recovery, 
which are primarily responsible for the massive public 
debt  overhang  that  constrains  our  best  development 
efforts.
15-29235
17/24
A/70/PV.8 
26/09/2015
In July in Addis Ababa the international community 
agreed  to  a  new  global  framework  for  financing 
development in the post-2015 period. That is expected 
to take cognizance of the special needs of small island 
developing  States,  as  clearly  articulated  in  the  SIDS 
Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  Pathway,  and  will 
provide  access  to  the  financing  necessary  to  realize 
the goals set out in that Pathway. I can only hope that 
this  is  not  another  example  of  the  pious,  self-serving 
declarations  that  have  come  to  typify  these  organs 
of  the  international  community.  We  need  action  and 
commitment,  because  our  countries’  existence  may 
well depend on it.
that  we  have  progressed 
Our adoption of these 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals  suggests 
in  our 
understanding  of  the  profound  challenges  that  face 
developing countries. It is also instructive that several 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  speak  directly 
to  environmental  issues.  That  gives  me  hope  that  we 
may  be  finally  embracing  the  advice  of  the  World 
Commission  on  Environment  and  Development  in  its 
seminal  publication  in  1987  entitled  “Our  common 
future”,  when  it  spoke  of  the  interconnectedness  of 
ecology  and  economy.  However,  actions  in  another 
negotiating theatre have caused me to question whether 
this critical connection between ecology and economy 
is fully appreciated.
I am concerned at the slow pace of the negotiations 
towards  a  new  climate  change  agreement.  I  am 
beginning to despair that some among us may not yet 
have  grasped  the  urgency  of  the  situation  for  small 
island developing States. I want to believe that it is not 
that  we  are  simply  being  ignored.  There  are  roughly 
two  months  until  the  opening  of  the  Climate  Change 
Conference  in  Paris.  However,  the  current  pledges  of 
cuts in greenhouse gas emissions are nowhere close to 
keeping global warming within the threshold that has 
been  set  for  the  survival  of  small  island  developing 
States.  Additionally,  the  lethargic  pace  at  which 
climate-finance 
instruments  are  being  capitalized 
indicates  that  the  rhetoric  of  good  political  intentions 
is  meaningless  without  demonstrated  and  tangible 
collective action.
Our  pronouncements  and  commitments  must  be 
given  substance  if  people  in  small  island  developing 
States  like  mine  are  to  have  any  hope  that  this  post-
2015  development  agenda  will  amount  to  something 
meaningful for them. We cannot continue with this diet 
of rhetoric, platitudes and broken promises.
The  arbitrary  blacklisting  of  some  Caribbean 
countries as harmful tax havens, the cynical use of an 
inadequate  GDP-per-capita  metric  to  determine  our 
eligibility for concessional financing, and the apparent 
lack of appreciation of the urgent need for a solution to 
the  heavy  debt  burden  being  carried  by  nearly  every 
Caribbean country all militate against the achievement 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  What  should 
happen if our small States collapse? Are our people to 
face  becoming  refugees  on  the  shores  of  other  lands? 
All we ask is that the world give a fair chance to our 
small island developing States.
We  have  a  post-2015  development  agenda  in  our 
hands  that  must  be  treated  with  a  renewed  sense  of 
purpose. We must put an end once and for all to hollow 
promises that are more honoured in the breach than the 
observance. We are here at a special, historical juncture. 
We have a chance for new beginnings. We should not 
evade today’s responsibilities, for they will surely catch 
up with us tomorrow. We small island developing States 
are not the cause of climate change, but we will be part 
of the solution.
My  country  can  only  pray  that  we  have  not  been 
called once again to craft and agree to fleeting illusions 
to be pursued but never attained.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Prime Minister 
and Minister for Finance, Economic Affairs and Social 
Security of Saint Lucia for his statement.
Mr.  Kenny  Davis  Anthony,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Finance, Economic Affairs and Social 
Security  of  Saint  Lucia,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen: The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Vanuatu.
Mr. Meltek Sato Kilman Livtuvanu, Prime Minister 
of  the  Republic  of  Vanuatu,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
Mr. Livtuvanu (Vanuatu): At the outset, let me take 
this opportunity to thank you, Mr. co-Chair, for giving 
me this occasion to address this gathering on behalf of 
the Government and the people of Vanuatu. Today we 
are meeting at a critical juncture in history, one which 
presents  us  with  a  unique  opportunity  to  positively 
change  the  lives  of  millions  of  people  throughout  the 
world, especially those categorized at the bottom of the 
development ladder.
18/24 
15-29235
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.8
This  year,  2015,  three  important  global  agendas 
have been in parallel discussions at the United Nations. 
They  include  the  post-2015  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs),  the  recently  concluded  Addis  Ababa 
Action Agenda and the climate change agreement to be 
concluded in Paris later this year.
The  post-2015  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
which will replace the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs), are promising for humanity’s development for 
the  next  15  years.  The  MDGs  ignited  unprecedented 
human  progress  and  improved  the  lives  of  hundreds 
of  millions  of  people,  mobilizing  development  efforts 
through  and  towards  an  emphasis  on  outcomes.  They 
have inspired and contributed to the empowerment of 
whole populations, including women and children, by 
providing standards to which Governments can be held 
accountable.  They  also  provide  an  excellent  platform 
on which SDGs can be built. I am delighted to see that 
the  post-2015  Sustainable  Development  Goals  have 
incorporated the unfinished business of the MDGs and 
that  they  clearly  reflect  the  unique  and  special  case 
of  least  developed  countries  (LDCs)  and  small  island 
developing States (SIDS). 
Post-2015  success  in  any  country  will  depend  on 
three main factors: access to financial resources, access 
to appropriate technology, and country capacity.
As  regards  access  to  financial  resources,  the 
recently  concluded  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  is 
important to SIDS and LDCs, as it provides a foundation 
for implementing the SDGs we have just adopted. I call 
on all developed countries to meet official development 
assistance  (ODA)  commitments  as  agreed  to  in  the 
Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Doha  Declaration.  The 
ODA  targets  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income 
(GNI)  and  also  the  increased  ODA  target  of  0.20  per 
cent  of  GNI  to  LDCs  by  2020  must  be  met.  Meeting 
these  targets  is  paramount  to  realizing  the  post-2015 
Sustainable Development Goals.
Climate  change  remains  a  major  global  challenge 
for  humanity,  and  it  is  important  that  we  address 
this  urgently.  For  small  island  developing  States  like 
Vanuatu,  climate  change  is  one  of  the  biggest  threats 
to achieving our sustainable development. The linkage 
between climate change and sustainable development is 
well documented. Without addressing climate change, 
sustainable  development  in  SIDS  cannot  be  achieved. 
Our  recent  experience  clearly  demonstrates  this.  In 
March this year Vanuatu experienced an unprecedented 
for 
Category 5 tropical cyclone. It affected 60 per cent of 
our population and reversed multiple years of economic 
progress.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  global 
community 
the  overwhelming  humanitarian 
assistance  rendered  to  our  people  in  the  immediate 
aftermath of Cyclone Pam and for ongoing assistance 
in our recovery and reconstruction efforts.
Global  and  country  ownership  of 
the  SDGs 
is  important.  The  United  Nations  system  needs  to 
be  reformed  in  order  to  realign  so  as  to  implement 
these  SDGs  effectively.  Lessons  learned  from  the 
implementation  of  the  MDGs  should  assist  us  going 
forward. These reforms must be extended to all regional 
arrangements as well.
Allow me to reiterate again that Vanuatu welcomes 
the  2030  Agenda  Goals.  We  believes  that  they  will 
lead  to  a  renewed  global  partnership  and  form  new 
types of cooperation which we hope will expedite the 
implementation of the post-2015 SDGs. It is now time 
for more action and less rhetoric.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Vanuatu for his statement.
Mr. Meltek Sato Kilman Livtuvanu, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Vanuatu, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen: The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the United Republic 
of Tanzania.
Mr. Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, President of the United 
Republic of Tanzania, was escorted to the rostrum.
President Kikwete: The Summit for the adoption 
of  the  new  global  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development is both historic and fateful. I commend the 
President of the General Assembly and the Secretary-
General for their outstanding leadership and for ensuring 
that the process of formulating the new Agenda remains 
truly inclusive. Through a series of open, inclusive and 
democratic  and  participatory  processes,  we  now  have 
an  outcome  document  on  the  post-2015  development 
agenda  entitled  “Transforming  our  world:  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development”  (resolution 
70/1). It is our document. It is our own Agenda. That 
is the future we want for humanity and for our planet.
It  is  heartwarming  indeed  to  note  that  we  have 
adopted 
the  Sustainable  Development  Agenda  at 
the  completion  of  the  period  of  implementing  the 
15-29235
19/24
A/70/PV.8 
26/09/2015
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  adopted  by 
this very Assembly in the year 2000 at the Millennium 
Summit. Indeed this is a very fitting successor to the 
MDGS.
I  must  admit  that  one  of  the  things  that  troubled 
my  mind  was  what  is  going  to  happen  to  the  MDGs 
targets  that  would  not  be  attained  come  2015.  The 
outcome  document  on  the  Sustainable  Development 
Agenda has allayed my fears. My delegation is pleased 
to note that the unfinished business of the MDGs has 
been factored into the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs)  very  well.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  is  focusing 
on bringing radical and transformative change that will 
both complete and finish the business of the MDGs and 
introduce  new  targets  that  will  advance  the  cause  of 
human development to the greatest heights possible.
One  thing  that  excites  me  is  aiming  at  the 
eradication of poverty in all its forms by 2030. That is 
very reassuring indeed. It would be remiss of me if I did 
not recognize and commend the Open Working Group 
on Sustainable Development Goals on a job very well 
done. Their tireless efforts and unwavering commitment 
during their exhaustive negotiations has been rewarded 
with the desired outcomes. Because of their dedication 
and  hard  work,  we  now  have  the  17  SDGs  and  their 
169  targets.  Ms.  Amina  Mohammed,  the  Secretary-
General’s  Special  Adviser  on  Post-2015  Development 
Planning,  deserves  special  mention  and  praise  from 
all of us for her dedication and exemplary leadership, 
which has produced this high-quality outcome. She has 
done all of us proud.
My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  for  the  new 
Agenda  to  be  achievable,  the  major  preoccupation 
of  this  Summit  going  forward  should  be  to  ensure 
the  reliable  and  timely  development  of  the  means  of 
implementation.  It  is  important  to  raise  this  matter 
because  it  was  the  unreliability  and  unavailability  of 
financial  resources  that  was  the  most  constraining 
factor  in  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs.  It  gives 
me  a  bit  of  comfort,  however,  that  in  the  new  global 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  this  matter  has  been 
addressed. Not only is there a stand-alone Goal 17 on 
the means of implementation, but also specific means 
of implementation have been tailored for each Goal.
I  sincerely  hope  that  each  one  of  us  will  do 
everything  in  our  power  to  ensure  that  we  keep  the 
promise.  If  we  can  deliver  on  our  commitment  and 
responsibility,  by  2030  this  world  would  be  the  best 
place to live in for us, our children and our children’s 
children. Nobody will be left behind.
Tanzania acknowledges the primary responsibility 
of each country to mobilize domestic resources for its 
own  socioeconomic  development,  and  we  are  already 
doing  it.  However,  it  is  a  statement  of  fact  that  the 
efforts  of  developing  countries  alone  will  not  be 
enough; hence the need for the support of the developed 
countries  is  a  matter  of  essence.  It  will  complement 
our limited capabilities. The Rio Principle of common 
but  differentiated  responsibilities  remains  relevant  to 
this  day.  It  is  this  global  partnership  that  will  deliver 
on  the  full  implementation  of  the  new  Sustainable 
Development Goals. Please walk with us every step of 
the way. It is the best and the right thing to do for our 
mutual benefit.
Another shortcoming of the MDGs framework was 
the lack of a clearly defined follow-up mechanism and 
a review process. The SDGs framework, however, has a 
clear and well-defined mechanism for a follow-up and 
review to be put in  place  at  the  national,  regional  and 
global levels. Tanzania fully supports this arrangement. 
We  also  support  the  idea  of  establishing  a  high-level 
political forum on sustainable development to lead the 
follow-up and review process at the global level. It is 
indeed a very wise thing to do.
In  conclusion,  let  me  say  that  Tanzania  stands 
ready  and  pledges  unwavering  commitment  to  fully 
support  the  new  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and 
their  implementation.  We  will  do  everything  within 
our power to play our part accordingly. We believe if 
all stakeholders play their part accordingly and adhere 
to the principles espoused by the five “Ps” of people, 
planet,  partnership,  prosperity  and  peace,  the  SDGs 
will  be  implemented  in  letter  and  spirit.  For  sure,  no 
one will be left behind. 
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the President of the 
United Republic of Tanzania for his statement.
Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen: The  Assembly  will  now 
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Fiji.
Mr. Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Fiji, was escorted to the rostrum.
20/24 
15-29235
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.8
Mr. Bainimarama (Fiji): Our global community is 
at a fork in the road. Do we act wisely to preserve the 
resources of planet Earth for generations to come, or do 
we continue to consume the Earth’s heritage as if there 
were no tomorrow?
We  all  need  to  assume  responsibility  for  taking 
action to end poverty and hunger, to promote the well-
being  of  all,  to  preserve  the  ocean  and  its  precious 
resources,  and  to  use  our  imagination  to  fuel  the 
innovations  that  will  ultimately  make  our  countries. 
The  17  Goals  and  169  targets  represent  the  forward 
thinking  and  compassionate  nature  of  human  beings, 
the principles of fairness and equality as applied to our 
global community.
Regardless of whether we wake up in Suva or New 
York, Buenos Aires or Dakar, Nairobi or Paris, London 
or Honiara, we are all in the same boat, all brothers and 
sisters  on  this  oasis  in  the  universe  called  Earth,  and 
we must act collectively. These arrangements to which 
we commit amount to our basic economic, political and 
social  contracts  with  Mother  Earth  over  the  coming 
decades. They give us a chance to right the wrongs of 
the past.
The 17 Sustainable Development Goals that we have 
adopted at this Summit meeting constitute the road map 
of hope and transformation. We can wait no longer to 
actually begin this journey. Time is of the essence, and 
time is not on our side. To accomplish these Goals we 
must  take  stock  of  the  systemic  issues  that  create  the 
obstacles that are slowing us down. Many developing 
countries do not have the financial resources to do what 
is needed to fulfil the Goals. Many countries have the 
ideas, the plans and the resolve to act but do not have 
the financial backing they need.
If  we  can  recognize  that  the  lack  of  funding 
is  what  can  hold  many  of  us  back,  then  it  should  be 
one  of  the  key  critical  issues  to  be  discussed  at  this 
Summit. We have our Goals. Now, how do we get there? 
We  must  make  affordable  financing  for  sustainable 
progress  a  reality.  Developing  countries  must  prove 
themselves trustworthy in order to receive grants and 
loans.  Governments  must  operate  on  the  principle  of 
transparency, and corruption must be stamped out and 
punished without exception. In Fiji we are determined 
to eradicate the remnants of the past. My Government 
is transparent for all to see, and the corruption that was 
endemic in previous Governments is being weeded out 
by its roots.
My  country  is  a  small  island  nation.  We  are  not 
rich,  but  we  are  doing  what  we  can  to  work  towards 
the Sustainable Development Goals. The action we are 
calling  for  has  already  begun  in  Fiji.  We  are  putting 
our  green  growth  framework  into  practice.  Fiji  has  a 
master plan and an economic model that links economic 
growth  and  environmental  protection.  Our  goal  is  to 
build an economy that nurtures the interests of all our 
citizens  and  establishes  strict  environmental  criteria 
for all development projects.
I think of the ocean I knew as a child and wonder 
if my grandchildren will ever see it the way I did. Fiji 
is  especially  keen  on  Sustainable  Development  Goal 
14, on the conservation and sustainable management of 
oceans and seas. Fiji has established a partnership with 
the  Government  of  Sweden  to  establish  the  triennial 
United Nations conferences on oceans and seas, which 
we believe can bring accountability to an effort that will 
require cooperation among every nation in the world as 
well as all non-State actors.
This  new  global  Agenda  will  succeed  step  by 
step,  community  by  community  and  country  by 
country,  but  it  will  require  patience,  persistence  and 
single-minded  commitment.  It  will  require  sure  and 
steady  programmes  of  outreach  and  education  to 
recruit  the  hearts  and  minds  of  every  man,  woman 
and  child.  It  will  require  political  and  national  action 
to secure the participation of our largest cities and our 
most isolated villages and communities. It will require 
genuine strategic partnerships with the private sector, 
youth and women’s groups, faith-based organizations, 
media, academia and civil society.
We have a chance to make change, to transform our 
world,  to  eradicate  extreme  poverty  and  hunger,  and 
to bring all people into a future of hope. I believe we 
can. If we have political will and courage and if we act 
with the leadership we were elected to show, together 
we  will  reach  our  goals.  I  join  other  world  leaders  in 
committing Fiji’s full support towards the adoption of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, at this 
United Nations sustainable development Summit.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Fiji for his statement.
Mr. Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Fiji, was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: The Assembly will now hear 
a  statement  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Democratic 
Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.
15-29235
21/24
A/70/PV.8 
26/09/2015
Mr. Patrice Emery Trovoada, Prime Minister of the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Trovoada (Sao Tome and Principe) (spoke in 
French):  It  is  with  a  sense  of  both  great  honour  and 
responsibility that, as the Prime Minister and Head of 
Government of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tomé 
and Principe, I take part in this great forum that will 
inaugurate a new process that, I am sure, will lead us 
during the next 15 years to a world that is better, one 
free  from  the  spectre  of  poverty  that  unfortunately 
continues  to  reign  over  a  great  part  of  the  world. 
Indeed,  this  global  meeting  to  adopt  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) is an excellent opportunity 
for us, as members of the international community and 
being responsible for conducting development policies, 
to  analyse  our  performance  vis-à-vis  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) and to put into perspective 
new strategies for the full achievement of the Goals we 
have now defined for 2030.
Like  all  other  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
September 2000 Sao Tome and Principe committed to 
the  implementation  and  achievement  within  15  years 
of  the  eight  Millennium  Development  Goals.  After 
15  years  the  first  and  most  crucial  of  these  Goals, 
the  reduction  of  poverty  and  hunger,  has  not  been 
achieved. Nevertheless, it is to be noted that of the eight 
Millennium Development Goals, my country completed 
three,  namely,  primary  education  for  all,  reducing 
infant mortality, and improving maternal health.
We  are  particularly  pleased  with  the  fact  that 
significant  gains  were  made  in  universal  education, 
maternal and infant health, a school attendance rate for 
primary education of about 98 per cent, the registration 
of almost 98 per cent of births, and a drastic reduction 
in the rate of infant and maternal mortality. It is also 
important to note that even if our country was unable 
to achieve all the Development Goals, good trends were 
seen  in  some  of  the  Goals,  for  example  in  combating 
HIV/AIDS and malaria, and as a result our country has 
seen a net improvement in the standard of living of our 
citizens.
Nevertheless, after 25 years of true democracy, with 
one of the best indicators of Internet coverage in Africa, 
after  five  years  of  a  growth  average  of  4.5  per  cent, 
inflation  below  8  per  cent  these  past  three  years  and 
foreign debt of 30 per cent of gross domestic product, 
compared  to  349  per  cent  15  years  ago,  my  country 
continues to see a poverty rate of about 62 per cent. The 
road  is  therefore  long  and  will  be  even  longer  unless 
public  and  private  investment  is  increased,  especially 
in  the  economic  sector,  and  unless  there  are  public 
policy reforms that lead to job creation, especially for 
young people.
Another no less important aspect — and this must 
be stressed — is the time factor. It was on 8 September 
2000  that  our  Organization  adopted  the  MDGs  (see 
resolution  55/2),  and,  given  that  time  is  a  rare  and 
non-renewable resource, we must draw our conclusions 
from the past 15 years in terms of their implementation 
and endeavour to apply the best of what we learn to the 
15 years to come. We no longer have the time to take our 
time as we face many examples of social destructuring 
and implosions.
The  SDGs  for  2030,  which  were  negotiated  and 
adopted  in  a  consensus-based  manner,  are  more 
ambitious  and  more  numerous  than  the  MDGs.  The 
fact that the debate did not give rise to any significant 
contradictions is, I dare to hope, a good sign. And while 
we are aware of the fact that the rich, emerging and poor 
countries will be working together to overcome those 
challenges, it is the leaders of the poorest countries who 
will have to be the most strongly committed.
It  is  understandable  to  doubt  whether  those  who 
failed to achieve the eight earlier Goals in 15 years will 
now  be  able  to  achieve  17  new  ones  during  the  same 
length of time. The Agenda that we have just adopted 
contains  challenges  that  are  not  unfamiliar  or  new.  It 
is crucial that they be prioritized and that we identify 
development accelerants and catalysts.
In that context, we cannot avoid the topic of creating 
a new type of global governance, one that is less self-
serving,  more  inclusive  and  especially  more  realistic 
and  proactive,  and  one  that  is  committed  to  seeking 
political  stability  and  the  resolution  of  conflicts, 
which are the cradle of opportunistic and devastating 
extremism  and  prevent  any  type  of  development.  The 
strengthening of multidimensional regional and global 
cooperation  is  essential.  The  search  in  each  Member 
State  for  a  national  consensus  on  the  SDGs  through 
inclusive  dialogue  among  all  political  actors,  whether 
in power or in opposition, and civil society, is crucial. 
We  have  come  here  to  the  Assembly  to  endorse 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  of  the  post-
2015  development  Agenda,  to  which  my  country,  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  has 
22/24 
15-29235
26/09/2015 
A/70/PV.8
also  contributed.  We  therefore  solemnly  reiterate,  on 
behalf of the national Government, our commitment to 
reducing poverty in our country by 2030. To that end, 
we will constantly strive for economic diversification, 
the  improved  management  of  public  finances,  the 
modernization  of  economic  and  social  infrastructure, 
digital inclusion, the promotion of the private sector as 
the main vehicle for creating wealth and employment, 
and the unconditional conservation of the environment. 
We  want  a  healthy  environment  that  can  guarantee 
respect,  dignity  and  the  right  to  happiness  for  all  our 
citizens.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Prime Minister 
of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe 
for his statement.
Mr. Patrice Emery Trovoada, Prime Minister of the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Co-Chair  Rasmussen: The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  a  statement  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and Trade and Minister for Education 
and Training of the Kingdom of Tonga.
Mr.  Samiuela  ‘Akilisi  Pōhiva,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade and Minister 
for  Education  and  Training  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Tonga, was escorted to the rostrum.
Mr. Pōhiva  (Tonga):  I  have  the  honour  to  deliver 
this  statement  to  the  General  Assembly  for  the  first 
time in my capacity as Head of Government, on behalf 
of the people and the Government of the Kingdom of 
Tonga. At the outset, please allow me to congratulate the 
President of the General Assembly on his outstanding 
effort  in  convening  this  Summit.  Likewise,  I  should 
like  to  extend  my  congratulations  and  appreciation 
to  our  previous  President,  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  for  his 
outstanding  efforts  in  overseeing  the  process  that 
produced the outcome document that we unanimously 
endorsed  yesterday  (resolution  70/1).  Additionally,  it 
would be remiss of me not to acknowledge with thanks 
the  considerable  efforts  made  by  the  co-facilitators 
of  the  process  for  their  long  hours  and  dedication  in 
bringing us to this moment.
The  newly  adopted  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  represents  an  attempt  to  radically  move 
on from business as usual. For the first time, we have 
gathered to affirm a truly universal outcome, one that 
holds  the  key  to  a  prosperous  and  sustainable  future 
for us all. The universality of this agreed document is 
a  reflection  of  the  diversity  of  the  needs  it  addresses 
across the three dimensions of sustainable development. 
But  the  universality  of  the  new  Agenda  also 
recognizes that, as the connections between us deepen, 
so  too  do  the  common  challenges  that  we  face.  Chief 
among those challenges is the irreversible threat to our 
people,  society,  livelihoods  and  natural  environments 
posed  by  climate  change.  Indeed,  as  a  small  island 
developing State, we are particularly vulnerable to the 
negative  impacts  of  climate  change  and  are  already 
experiencing 
including  sea-level  rise, 
more frequent and extreme weather events, and ocean 
acidification.
its  effects, 
We know that those effects will intensify over time. 
While  the  2030  Agenda  does  indeed  recognize  that 
we must take urgent action to combat climate change, 
it  should  be  stressed  that  it  is  an  imperative  that  we 
must all address if we are to attain the aspirations set 
out today. The new Agenda reaffirms the need for the 
strongest possible agreement to be reached in Paris later 
this year, as the challenges we face as a result of climate 
change will only intensify as we approach 2030.
During the process of crafting a universal agenda, 
the Pacific small island developing States stood at the 
forefront  in  declaring  that  our  oceans  are  central  to 
sustainable development for all. We stressed that their 
conservation and sustainable use was critical to poverty 
eradication and sustained economic growth, and we did 
so knowing that mounting human impacts have come to 
threaten the oceans that sustain us all.
We  are  pleased  to  see  before  us  an  Agenda  that 
moves  forward  in  addressing  threats  to  our  ocean, 
including  marine  pollution,  illegal,  unreported  and 
unregulated  fishing,  and  ocean  acidification,  while 
harnessing  our  marine  and  coastal  resources  for 
sustainable development. Our Pacific Ocean is one of 
the  greatest  natural  endowments  in  the  world.  It  not 
only sustains our islands but also forms an enormous 
component  in  our  global  environment.  Careful  and 
responsible stewardship of that asset is not merely our 
responsibility,  it  is  also  an  indispensable  key  to  the 
success of our Agenda.
My  country  is  highly  dependent  on  imported 
fossil  fuels  to  meet  our  energy  requirements,  and  for 
that reason we responded with the Tonga energy road 
map,  not  only  to  reduce  our  vulnerability  to  energy 
shocks but also to increase access to modern energy in 
15-29235
23/24
A/70/PV.8 
26/09/2015
an  environmentally  sustainable  manner.  We  welcome 
support for this and other such steps detailed in the new 
Agenda. 
We further recognize that the ambitious decisions 
being advanced here are only as good as the commitments 
we make for the purpose of implementation. A key to 
the  promise  of  this  document  to  transform  our  world 
is  the  unprecedented  attention  paid  to  each  means  of 
implementation, found both in the Agenda itself and in 
the  related  commitments  undertaken  in  the  financing 
for development process. As a small island developing 
State  in  the  Pacific,  we  face  additional  financing 
challenges  that  deserve  the  close  attention  provided 
here.  We  must  follow  through  on  those  commitments 
and  translate  the  road  map  that  we  have  put  forward 
into  concrete  and  tangible  actions  that  will  transform 
the lives of those we serve.
the 
towards 
In  the  time  since  the  adoption  of  the  Millennium 
Declaration 
(resolution  55/2),  Tonga  has  made 
significant 
strides 
attainment  of 
sustainable  development.  More  must  be  done.  At  the 
dawn of the next 15 years, the challenges we face are 
more  difficult  than  ever.  Our  aspirations  are  high. 
Yesterday,  we  listened  to  leaders  who  spoke  about 
poverty and the lack of any signs of hope. Some spoke 
about  the  forced  massive  exploitation  of  resources  by 
multinational  companies.  We  also  heard  that  in  many 
countries in Africa inequality had widened and poverty 
increased.  Similarly,  we  heard  of  the  mixed  effects 
on  global  sustainable  development  of  the  world’s 
total  spending  of  more  than  $1  trillion  on  military 
might.  In  the  Pacific,  the  threat  of  climate  change, 
marine  pollution,  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
fishing,  and  ocean  acidification still  pose  real  threats 
to the people in our region, let alone to our sustainable 
development.  Others  emphasized  the  prolonged  delay 
in  implementing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and other commitments.
I associate myself with the sentiments expressed by 
leaders that multinational companies, and their partners 
and supporters, must be reminded that a refusal to act 
promptly would lay them open to the perception that they 
are more sensitive to other interests than the interests 
of the people. We must remove unfair monopolies and 
always put justice before interests. Allow me to remind 
the  Assembly  that  injustice  anywhere  is  a  threat  to 
justice  everywhere.  Whatever  affects  one  country 
directly, affects all countries indirectly. 
The  international  system,  as  it  is  now,  does  not 
adequately provide for a fair, justifiable and equitable 
solution  for  a  small  island  developing  State  such  as 
Tonga, or for small island developing States generally. 
However, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
adopted yesterday, with its Goals and targets, shines a 
light  of  hope  and  reflects  humankind’s  desire  to  live 
in  and  enjoy  a  world  of  peace,  justice  and  harmony. 
We entrust all States, both developing and developed, 
working together in genuine and durable partnerships 
and in a reformed United Nations that is fit for purpose, 
with ensuring that the new Goals are met over the next 
15 years.
Co-Chair Rasmussen: I thank the Prime Minister, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade and Minister for 
Education  and  Training  of  the  Kingdom  of  Tonga  for 
his statement.
Mr.  Samiuela  ’Akilisi  Pōhiva,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade and Minister 
for  Education  and  Training  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Tonga, was escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
24/24 
15-29235
