United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
23rd plenary meeting
Thursday, 1 October 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.23
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Alrowaiei 
(Bahrain), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Mokgweetsi Eric Keabetswe 
Masisi, Vice-President of the Republic 
of Botswana
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Vice-President 
of the Republic of Botswana.
Mr.  Mokgweetsi  Eric  Keabetswe  Masisi,  Vice-
President  of  the  Republic  of  Botswana,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I have great 
pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Mokgweetsi 
Eric Keabetswe Masisi, Vice-President of the Republic 
of Botswana, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
(Botswana):  On  behalf  of  His 
Excellency the President of the Republic of Botswana, 
Lieutenant  General  Seretse  Khama  Ian  Khama,  allow 
me  at  the  very  outset  to  join  other  delegations  in 
extending our heartiest congratulations to Mr. Mogens 
Lykketoft  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its seventieth session. His election 
bears witness to the excellent credentials he brings to 
the office, which should greatly support the execution 
Mr.  Masisi 
of his mandate during this historic year on the United 
Nations calendar. We wish to assure him of Botswana’s 
unequivocal support throughout his term of office.
My  delegation  and  I  also  wish  to  take  this 
opportunity 
to  recognize,  with  appreciation,  his 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kahamba 
Kutesa,  whose  leadership  and  purposeful  endeavours 
as President of the Assembly at its sixty-ninth session 
were  significantly  evident  in  international  efforts  to 
address  the  global  challenges  confronting  the  world 
today. The high-level events he convened in that regard 
demonstrated  his  genuine  commitment  to  sustainable 
development, to peace and security and to human rights 
and human dignity. 
We  are  confident  that  the  President’s  efforts  will 
further  and  firmly  guide  the  general  membership 
of  the  Organization  onto  a  path  that  ensures  the  full 
and effective implementation of the historic post-2015 
development agenda that world leaders adopted only a 
few short days ago.
I would be remiss not to seize this opportunity also 
to  commend  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, whose passion and dedication have 
been, and continue to be, instrumental to the work of 
the Organization.
The year 2015 marks an extraordinarily momentous 
year  in  the  history  of  humankind.  It  is  not  only  the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  birth  of  the  United 
Nations but also the seventieth anniversary of the end 
of  the  Second  World  War,  the  twentieth  anniversary 
of  the  World  Summit  on  Social  Development,  the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29664 (E)
*1529664*
A/70/PV.23 
01/10/2015
twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Beijing  Declaration  and 
Platform  for  Action,  and  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of 
the Millennium Summit, to mention but a few. That list 
of the global milestones is by no means exhaustive, but 
it demonstrates the resolute and enduring commitment 
of  the  United  Nations  to  championing  the  cause  of 
humankind.
The  significance  of  this  year  impels  us  to  pause 
and recall the purpose, ideals and founding principles 
upon  which  the  United  Nations  was  established.  It  is 
imperative that we reflect on the history of this eminent 
Organization and that we take account of what we, the 
international  community,  have  achieved  and  can  still 
achieve  to  safeguard  the  aspirations  and  integrity 
of  the  founders  of  the  United  Nations  and  to  uphold 
the  absolute  primacy  and  veracity  of  the  Charter. 
Furthermore, this year offers an opportunity for us to 
admit  our  failures  and  to  draw  attention  to  the  areas 
where we have fallen short of fulfilling our individual 
and  collective  responsibility  to  deliver  on  all  three 
anchors  of  human  development:  peace  and  security, 
development, and human rights.
The  President’s  choice  of  a  theme  for  this  year’s 
general  debate,  “The  United  Nations  at  70  —  a  new 
commitment to action”, is therefore fitting, because it 
provides  a  pertinent  context  for  our  deliberation  and 
reflection  at  this  critical  juncture  in  our  lifetimes. 
Fifteen years ago, at the Millennium Summit of 2000, 
the largest gathering of world leaders in history adopted 
the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  which, 
inter  alia,  espoused  the  need  for  a  people-centred 
framework  for  global  development.  That  framework 
gave  birth  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  The  MDGs  were  a  landmark  set  of  eight 
time-bound Goals aimed at addressing extreme poverty 
and social inequalities. For the first time, there was a 
clearly codified global agenda focusing nations around 
the  world  on  priority  areas  for  meeting  the  needs  of 
the  world’s  poorest  people  and  liberating  them  from 
the  dehumanizing  conditions  of  abject  poverty.  The 
Secretary-General’s  final  report  on  the  MDGs,  The 
Millennium  Development  Goals  Report  2015,  shows 
that  significant  progress  has  been  made  in  realizing 
those Goals.
unacceptable  living  conditions.  Social  exclusions  and 
inequalities still present a significant challenge in most 
countries, with women and girls and the youth bearing 
the  heaviest  weight  of  those  circumstances.  The 
situation  varies  from  one  nation  to  another  owing  to 
their different national realities and capacities, requiring 
more focused and targeted interventions to effectively 
address the issues and ensure the sustainability of the 
developments achieved.
In Botswana, we are proud of the tremendous strides 
we  have  made  in  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs, 
particularly given the enormous resource and capacity 
constraints  we  faced,  and  continue  to  face,  as  we 
implement  our  development  programmes  and  prepare 
to  domesticate  the  new  agenda.  Poverty  eradication, 
gender equality, the empowerment of women, girls and 
youth, job creation and equal access to health and other 
social  services  remain  high  on  our  national  agenda. 
However, we march on with steadfast determination to 
ensure that every opportunity is seized, every effort is 
galvanized  and  every  resource  is  employed  to  ensure 
the  inherent  dignity  and  fundamental  freedoms  of  all 
the  citizens  of  Botswana.  That  includes  paying  due 
attention  to  the  needs  of  the  aged  and  to  people  with 
disabilities. In that regard, the Botswana Government is 
currently in the final stages of developing the country’s 
National Vision 2030 and National Development Plan 11 
in order to ensure firm alignment and complementarity 
between national aspirations and the building blocks to 
deliver them.
As dusk descends on the MDGs, the Government 
of Botswana has enthusiastically begun to prepare for 
the  dawn  of  the  new  global  development  framework. 
Botswana  therefore  welcomes  the  highly  anticipated 
adoption of the profoundly ambitious and transformative 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  set  out  in  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). 
which  represent  the  culmination  of  more  than  two 
years of exceptionally intensive, broad and exhaustive 
negotiations. The Agenda represents a global vision for 
the  sustained  prosperity  of  humankind  and  the  living 
planet,  in  which  universal  peace  and  security  form 
the  foundation  for  sustainable  development  across  all 
nations.
Those  notable  achievements  notwithstanding,  the 
sombre truth is that progress has largely been uneven 
across and within countries and regions. We continue 
to see multitudes — especially the poorest, vulnerable 
and  marginalized  in  our  societies  —  subjected  to 
We look forward to the effective implementation of 
the integrated and indivisible 17 Goals and 169 targets 
arrived  at  through  an  all-inclusive  intergovernmental 
process, as mandated by the outcome document of the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
2/25 
15-29664
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.23
in  2012.  The  Botswana  Government  embarks  on  this 
new  course  with  increased  optimism  that  we  shall 
indeed realize the future that we all want.
In  December,  the  parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  will 
convene in Paris to adopt a universal, legally binding 
agreement  on  climate  change.  The  importance  and 
urgency  of  this  cannot  be  overemphasized.  Climate 
change,  if  left  unchecked,  is  arguably  the  greatest 
environmental  challenge  the  world  is  facing,  with 
potentially  catastrophic  consequences  for  our  planet 
and  future  generations.  We  continue  to  witness  a 
dangerous rise in sea levels, melting glaciers, a severe 
decline 
in  agricultural  output,  changing  weather 
patterns and health challenges caused by the changing 
climate conditions.
Climate  change  also  presents  a  serious  security 
threat, for it displaces millions of people and condemns 
an even greater number to sub-par living conditions. We 
extend our condolences to all those who have lost loved 
ones or who have experienced the destruction of property 
caused  by  natural  disasters.  Developing  countries  are 
the hardest hit, because they have limited capacities to 
respond to such effects and therefore require substantial 
assistance  in  developing  climate-smart  technology  in 
order to reduce their vulnerability and to transition to 
low-carbon growth paths.
In  the  pursuit  of  global  development  that  leaves 
no  one  behind,  the  Botswana  delegation  believes 
that  particular  focus  should  be  given  to  countries 
in  special  situations  and  to  the  specific  support  they 
require  to  build  their  economies.  In  November  2014, 
the  landlocked  developing  countries  (LLDCs)  met  in 
Vienna  to  adopt  the  Vienna  Programme  of  Action  on 
Landlocked Developing Countries, which identifies six 
priority areas, including infrastructure development and 
maintenance, international trade and trade facilitation, 
regional  integration  and  cooperation,  and  structural 
economic transformation. Botswana, like other LLDCs, 
will require a substantial augmentation of its capacity 
to implement any of those areas. That also holds true 
for  middle-income  countries,  a  category  to  which 
Botswana  belongs.  Figures  show  that  75  per  cent  of 
the world’s poorest populations live in middle-income 
countries.
is 
therefore 
The  clarion  call 
the 
mechanisms  by  which  such  countries  can  be  assisted 
in order to address entrenched and widespread poverty. 
The scale of the required assistance goes well beyond 
to  explore 
the  obvious  need  for  infrastructure  development, 
strengthening  of  institutions,  access  to  technology, 
skills  development  and  the  development  of  social 
protection  floors,  inter  alia.  It  is  critically  important 
to  extend  financing  for  development  in  order  to 
address the specific needs and challenges of individual 
middle-income  countries 
instead  of  employing  a 
one-size-fits-all policy framework. Failure in that regard 
would be detrimental to the development trajectory of 
middle-income  countries,  with  a  real  possibility  that 
they could relapse to least developed country status.
Discussions  have  commenced  in  various  United 
Nations  platforms  on  how  the  Organization  should 
transform  itself  to  be  better  structured  and  better 
equipped  to  effectively  and  efficiently  carry  out  its 
mandate and better serve the best interests of its Member 
States. Botswana believes that chief among the scores 
of  considerations  should  be  the  coordination  between 
and  among  the  different  United  Nations  agencies 
for  stronger  system-wide  coherence  that  extends  to 
improved  cooperation  with  regional  and  subregional 
organizations. That, we believe, would go a long way 
towards enhancing international efforts to address the 
myriad challenges to development and to durable peace 
and security.
We cannot speak about development or about peace 
and  security  without  considering  the  increasingly 
disturbing  phenomenon  of  migration.  The 
flow 
of  international  migrants  has  continued  to  grow 
exponentially  since 
the  High-level  Dialogue  on 
International  Migration  and  Development,  which  was 
held in New York in October 2013. Conflict, political 
instability  and  poverty  are  the  main  push  factors  for 
migration  from  developing  to  developed  countries, 
as  evidenced  by  the  thousands  who  continue  to  cross 
the  Mediterranean  to  Europe  in  search  of  economic 
opportunities. The grave conditions to which migrants 
are  exposed,  along  with  the  unprecedented  levels 
of  humanitarian  crises  to  which  their  movements 
contribute, are cause for great concern.
It is wrong to blame any single European country 
for  its  immigration  policy,  since  each  country  has  to 
assess  its  own  ability  to  accommodate  such  influxes. 
Nor should Europe be blamed for the tragic drownings 
at  sea,  which  are  the  fault  of  migrants’  countries  of 
origin.
Botswana  believes  that  the  issue  of  migration 
warrants  the  urgent  attention  of  the  international 
community, with a view to developing a comprehensive 
15-29664
3/25
A/70/PV.23 
01/10/2015
and lasting solution. The imposition of quotas to make it 
mandatory for countries to accept migrants or refugees 
is  not  the  best  solution.  Instead,  consideration  should 
be  given  to  rewarding  and  supporting  the  countries 
that accept migrants or refugees by setting up a special 
fund  under  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees.  Europe,  or  preferably 
the  entire  international  community,  should  contribute 
annually to such a fund, based on an assessment of each 
country’s  economic  status  and  whether  it  is  hosting 
refugees. If anything should be mandatory, it should be 
that approach. In summary, the more refugees a country 
takes, the bigger its reward or support and the lower its 
contribution to the fund.
We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  initiative  to 
convene  the  first-ever  World  Humanitarian  Summit 
next year. It should not only enhance existing and new 
efforts  to  address  the  issue  of  migration,  but  should 
also  ensure  comprehensive,  coherent  and  cohesive 
approaches for responding to the critically urgent issue 
of the global humanitarian architecture.
Botswana  remains  gravely  concerned  about  the 
serious  threats  to  international  peace  and  security  in 
many  parts  of  the  world,  which  arguably  present  the 
greatest  challenge  to  human  development.  We  are 
witnessing  an  alarming  rise  in  instability,  insecurity 
and  violent  conflicts  which  are  causing  untold 
devastation and human suffering. The unremitting loss 
of  innocent  lives  and  the  escalation  in  humanitarian 
crises have reached tragic levels, making it imperative 
for  the  international  community  to  take  urgent  and 
decisive action. We take this opportunity to commend 
all  humanitarian  and  human  rights  organizations  for 
the good work they do on behalf of humankind. 
The growing involvement of non-State actors and 
radical extremists in most conflict situations is deeply 
troubling.  The  activities  of  such  entities  introduce 
additional layers of difficulty to the processes for the 
management  and  resolution  of  conflicts.  Terrorism, 
including  the  emergence  of  abductions  as  one  of  its 
many  forms,  further  increases  the  complexity  of  the 
response to conflict in areas of unrest.
In  a  world  in  which  borders  are  porous  and 
nations  are  increasingly  interdependent,  threats  to 
security in any region have consequences for all. The 
only  difference  is  in  the  degree  of  impact.  In  Africa, 
the  situations  in  Somalia,  Libya  and  South  Sudan,  to 
mention  but  a  few,  are  a  current  preoccupation  and  a 
cause of deep concern for the continent. However, the 
African  Union,  through  its  regional  mechanisms  and 
international support, is actively engaged in efforts to 
resolve the conflicts. Botswana remains fully supportive 
of those ongoing efforts. We hope that lasting solutions 
can be found before there is any further loss of innocent 
lives  and  before  instability  becomes  entrenched  in 
those societies.
In  other  parts  of  the  world,  we  remain  deeply 
concerned about the situation in the Middle East. The 
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  has  remained  unresolved 
for several decades, without any real promise of an end 
in  sight.  Botswana  continues  to  lend  its  unequivocal 
support to the two-State solution, and we join the call 
for constructive dialogue by the parties involved.
Of  particular  concern  in  the  Middle  East  are  the 
political  crisis  in  Yemen  and  the  protracted  war  in 
Syria. The latter especially has wreaked unprecedented 
havoc  on  a  people,  to  an  extent  not  seen  since  the 
Second  World  War.  Botswana  is  profoundly  troubled 
that the Security Council nonetheless seems paralysed 
by the hard divisions among its members that prevent 
it from upholding its responsibilities under Chapter V 
of the Charter of the United Nations and from taking 
decisive action against the Syrian Government. Despite 
the  carnage  and  property  destruction  of  unspeakable 
proportions  that  have  raged  in  that  country  since 
2011,  some  Council  members  still  obstruct  initiatives 
intended  to  end  the  war  and  alleviate  the  desperate 
plight of the poor Syrian people.
the  Syrian  people  by 
In 
Horrified  by  the  torment  visited  with  appalling 
impunity  upon 
their  own 
Government, Botswana joined 58 concerned members 
of the international community in 2013 to petition the 
Security  Council  to  refer  Syria  to  the  International 
Criminal  Court.  We  deeply  regret  that  action  on  that 
matter  continues  to  be  frustrated  by  divisions  within 
the Council. 
the 
light  of  such  challenges,  Botswana 
continues  to  firmly  support  the  initiative  of  France 
calling  for  the  permanent  members  of  the  Council 
to  refrain  from  using  their  veto  power  in  situations 
involving  mass  atrocities.  The  United  Nations,  which 
promotes democracy around the globe, should lead by 
example.  The  Security  Council  is  not  an  example  of 
democracy when permanent membership is limited to 
five countries, which have a veto. There should be no 
permanent members and no veto at all. The practice of 
might making right is actually wrong.
4/25 
15-29664
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.23
to  exercise 
Generally  speaking,  States  have 
the  primary 
responsibility to ensure the protection of their people. 
In  reality,  however,  some  States,  such  as  Syria,  are 
manifestly  failing 
that  responsibility. 
Instead,  they  violate  international  humanitarian  law 
with shameful impunity. Clearly, that should trigger the 
application of measures under pillars two and three of 
the responsibility to protect — yet nothing is happening. 
Might it be time to make the responsibility to protect a 
formal agenda item for debate by the General Assembly? 
Perhaps such a debate could provide sufficient impetus 
for the Security Council to carry the full mantle of its 
mandate, including by improving its relationship with 
the International Criminal Court in order to facilitate 
the investigation and prosecution of the perpetrators of 
crimes against humanity.
Botswana’s  commitment  to  a  strong  and  effective 
international  justice  system  remains  resolute.  Our 
belief in the International Criminal Court as the only 
standing international criminal tribunal for war crimes 
and  crimes  against  humanity  is  unwavering.  The 
Botswana Government regrets that non-cooperation by 
some  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  still  plagues 
the Court, creating leeway for continued impunity and 
escape from accountability for crimes against humanity. 
We therefore urge all parties to the Rome Statute of the 
International Criminal Court to stand fully behind the 
Court. Cooperation is vital to for the assurance of the 
Court’s integrity and effective functioning.
My  delegation  and  I  are  hopeful  that,  as  we 
commemorate the 70 years of the United Nations, we can 
have unanimous agreement that judicial accountability, 
inclusive governance and the protection and promotion 
of  human  rights  are  essential  elements  for  peaceful 
societies. That should not be seen as the preserve of the 
International Criminal Court or of the Security Council 
alone, but rather as a shared responsibility and norm of 
the global community.
Finally,  the  sooner  the  world  is  rid  of  the  feeble 
leadership of Sepp Blatter at the Fédération Internationale 
de  Football  Association,  the  better.  Corruption,  poor 
governance and a leader who has gone well beyond his 
sell-by  date  make  that  organization  almost  a  mirror 
image  of  a  failed  State.  Good  governance  should  not 
apply to politics alone, but to all institutions, especially 
international organizations.
Let  me  conclude  by  reaffirming  Botswana’s 
commitment  to  and  abiding  faith  in  the  purposes 
and  founding  principles  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
are  strongly  committed  to  a  world  that  nurtures  and 
sustains all life within the natural limits of the living 
planet, leaving absolutely no one behind. Botswana is 
truly optimistic in its belief that, with genuine political 
will and concerted collective effort, such a world can 
be achieved.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  Botswana  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr.  Mokgweetsi  Eric  Keabetswe  Masisi,  Vice-
President  of  the  Republic  of  Botswana,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. James Wani Igga, 
Vice-President of the Republic of South Sudan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Vice-President of the Republic 
of South Sudan.
Mr.  James  Wani  Igga,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  South  Sudan,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  James  Wani  Igga, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan,  and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Igga (South Sudan): On behalf of my President, 
His Excellency Mr. Salva Kiir Mayardit, I would like to 
congratulate the newly elected President of the General 
Assembly.  We  stand  with  his  leadership.  I  also  thank 
his  predecessor,  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  of  Uganda,  for  his 
beautiful and successful tenure in office. 
I  would  like  to  express  our  sincere  gratitude  for 
the  pivotal  role  of  the  United  Nations,  and  of  many 
other friends, before, during and after the birth of our 
country, South Sudan, in July 2011. We commend this 
noble  world  body  and  its  able  leadership  for  firmly 
supporting  our  independence.  We  vividly  remember 
the  three  days  that  the  Secretary-General  spent  in 
Juba, dedicated himself to lecturing and advising us as 
independence neared. We congratulate His Excellency 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon.
After going through so much for too long, the dream, 
aspiration and vision of the people of South Sudan for 
a country of their own were finally realized on 9 July 
2011, with strong support from the Intergovernmental 
Authority on Development (IGAD), the United Nations 
15-29664
5/25
A/70/PV.23 
01/10/2015
and the Troika. Almost one week thereafter, in this great 
Hall,  the  General  Assembly  took  a  historic  step  and 
endorsed  our  independence.  We  most  enthusiastically 
thank the United Nations for that.
Having  attained  freedom  for  our  country  and  its 
people,  we,  the  leaders,  wasted  no  time  in  pushing 
forward  with  the  creation  of  institutions  of  good 
governance  and  democratic  exercise.  We  started 
virtually  from  rubble,  following  the  first  civil  war. 
However, our progress has been thwarted and marred 
by  unjustified  internal  power  feuds  that  resulted  in  a 
regrettable conflict that engulfed three of our country’s 
10 states.
It  is  my  pleasure  and  a  relief  to  announce  to  the 
Assembly  that  this  regrettable  war  and  unnecessary 
bloodshed have been brought to an end. The people of 
South Sudan were yearning for peace, and on 26 August 
2015 our President took the courageous step — with the 
help  of  IGAD,  the  Troika,  China,  Russia,  the  United 
Nations  and  so  on  —  to  sign  a  peace  agreement  with 
our brothers in the rebellion to silence the guns and end 
the civil war. This signature was immediately followed 
by the President’s declaration of a permanent ceasefire 
the next day. We must congratulate our people for this 
historic  achievement  of  peace.  I  am  sure  it  will  be 
cemented by prosperity and happiness. We give credit 
to our neighbours and the international community at 
large. The next step now is for this body to quickly join 
and help us in terms of both humanitarian assistance and 
reconstruction as we vow to implement the agreement.
South Sudan is concerned about global and regional 
peace, security and respect for human rights. Though 
we have been tied down by our own difficulties, we are 
also mindful of our participation in global and regional 
strategies  aimed  at  tackling  threats  of  terrorism, 
environmental change and the like.
I  commend  the  role  that  the  United  Nations 
Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) played during the 
period  leading  up  to  our  declaration  of  independence 
in  2011,  and  afterwards.  Nonetheless,  any  renewal  of 
the UNMISS mandate without consultations with and 
the consent of our Government would not be right and 
would  therefore  be  unacceptable.  It  is  a  well-known 
fact that matters of that nature are sovereign and due 
consultation is imperative.
Committing  crimes  against  the  people  we  govern 
or violating human rights have never and shall never be 
condoned by our Government. Promoting and protecting 
the  safety  of  persons,  families  and  communities  and 
their  physical  and  social  well-being  is  a  duty  that  we 
take very seriously. We will not allow impunity to reign. 
We are conscious of our obligations to humankind, and 
we  respect  the  human  rights  charter  contained  in  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  related 
protocols.  We  respect  the  content  and  provisions  of 
the  Geneva  Conventions  and  vow  to  strictly  observe 
and  apply  them  in  our  difficult  and  complex  context. 
Since  our  independence,  whenever  we  have  received 
reports of human rights abuses by elements associated 
with our security institutions, we have investigated and 
immediately  dealt  with  them  in  accordance  with  the 
law.
We  are  delighted  to  announce  that  through  the 
efforts  of  IGAD,  alongside  the  Troika,  on  26  August 
His Excellency President Salva Kiir Mayardit not only 
signed  the  agreement  but  also  declared  the  ceasefire. 
This  ceasefire  is  holding  surely  in  certain  parts  of 
the country — there is no doubt about that — but not 
in  all,  I  must  underscore.  That  is  mainly  attributable 
to  the  absence  of  a  joint  monitoring  and  verification 
mechanism  installed  on  the  ground  and  of  funding 
from  IGAD  for  that  purpose.  I  urge  IGAD  to  work 
more  speedily  on  creating  and  designating  that  vital 
instrument for enforcing any meaningful ceasefire.
With respect to security arrangements, from 13 to 
18  September  the  warring  parties  held  a  workshop  in 
Addis  Ababa,  which  ended  with  our  Government 
delegation signing the minutes and a communiqué. Our 
brothers in the rebellion, however, declined to sign, for 
reasons best known to them. It is now incumbent upon 
“IGAD-Plus” to persuade the armed opposition to sign 
the minutes as quickly as possible. The announcement 
by the Sudan People’s Liberation Army (SPLA) — our 
Government Army — about a week ago that it would 
move  out  of  Juba  to  a  location  25  kilometres  away 
is  further  proof  that  our  Government  is  committed 
to  this  agreement.  That  is  a  clear  demonstration  of 
the  Government’s  will  to  execute  the  accord.  As  the 
SPLA is already moving to redeploy, the international 
community  needs 
the 
necessary funding to help build new army barracks in 
those forests.
to  expeditiously  provide 
As we embark on the implementation of the peace 
agreement,  sanctions  and  travel  restrictions  imposed 
on our officials should no longer be an option. At this 
juncture, I urge all countries of good will to rush in with 
humanitarian,  resettlement  and  development  projects. 
6/25 
15-29664
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.23
There  is  no  doubt  that  development  and  prosperity 
can quickly lead to cementing peace and stability. It is 
therefore  crucial  for  the  Government  of  South  Sudan 
to remind international donors about the many pledges 
they made earlier but which have never been honoured.
More than at any other time in our conflict-riddled 
history,  the  upcoming  post-conflict  imperatives  of 
resettlement,  rehabilitation  and  disarmament  require 
concerted financial and technical assistance from our 
many friends of goodwill around the world. Honouring 
the numerous pledges made in forums such as in Oslo 
in  2005  and  2014  and  the  International  Engagement 
Conference hosted by the sisterly country of the United 
States in 2011 will go a long way in enabling the current 
peace agreement to be fully implemented, in order to 
meet the pressing need for humanitarian aid and post-
conflict reconstruction.
We  are  firmly  determined  to  correct  the  errors 
of the past and look forward to the future. I take this 
opportunity  to  appeal  to  all  friends  and  supporters 
of  South  Sudan  to  rapidly  step  in  to  support  the 
humanitarian  process  I  alluded  to  previously  —  the 
processes of rehabilitation, peacebuilding, cantonment 
and  national  reconstruction.  South  Sudan  is  very 
resilient  and  its  future  is  certainly  full  of  hope, 
particularly with all the assistance and cooperation that 
the international community has to offer. We should not 
be subject to undeserved isolation and sanctions, given 
our level of fragility as a new country.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President of the Republic of South Sudan for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  James  Wani  Igga,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  South  Sudan,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Joseph Butore, Vice-President 
of the Republic of Burundi
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Vice-President 
of the Republic of Burundi.
Mr. Joseph Butore, Vice-President of the Republic 
of Burundi, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Joseph 
Butore, Vice-President of the Republic of Burundi, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Butore (Burundi) (spoke in French): I would 
like  first  to  thank  God  Almighty  for  guiding  us 
throughout  our  trip  and  for  continuing  to  be  with  us 
during our stay in New York. 
I  would  like  to  express  the  fraternal  greetings  of 
the  Burundian  people  and  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pierre 
Nkurunziza, President of the Republic of Burundi, who 
asked us to represent him here today.
We  take  this  opportunity  to  extend  our  warmest 
congratulations to the Mr. Lykketoft on the occasion of 
his election as President of the General Assembly at its 
seventieth session and to assure him of the full support 
of our country in accomplishing his noble mission. We 
also  wish  to  congratulate  Mr.  Sam  Kahamba  Kutesa, 
who brilliantly presided over the Assembly at its sixty-
ninth  session.  We  offer  special  thanks  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  commendable  ongoing 
efforts so that our Organization may continue to fulfil 
the  goals  and  ideals  that  the  Member  States  have  set 
for it.
We would like to acknowledge the relevance of the 
theme  chosen  for  this  seventieth  anniversary  of  our 
Organization:  “Strong  UN.  Better  World”.  We  assure 
the President of the strong support of the Republic of 
Burundi  for  achieving  the  three  priorities  that  will 
guide  his  actions  during  his  term:  a  commitment  to 
action,  an  intensification  of  efforts  by  the  United 
Nations to cement international peace and security, and 
significant progress in the area of human rights.
As  some  know,  Burundi  has  just  come  through  a 
period  that  has  raised  questions  for  some  here  today. 
I would briefly like to address them. Burundi has just 
completed  an  election  process  pursuant  to  the  2005 
Constitution, which has remained unchanged, contrary 
to what some would have us believe. The process was 
a great success despite the violent protests that quickly 
turned  into  an  insurrectionary  movement  in  some 
neighbourhoods of the capital, Bujumbura.
The elections went well in Burundi, but during their 
preparation, while they were being held and afterwards, 
there were acts of sabotage, and the country fell victim 
to  the  machinations  of  some  politicians  whose  plan 
was  simply  to  destabilize  institutions.  Children  were 
used  as  soldiers  and  human  shields,  to  whom  drugs, 
weapons and explosives were given so that they would 
15-29664
7/25
A/70/PV.23 
01/10/2015
commit  acts  of  vandalism,  killings  and  other  acts 
of  terrorism  in  public  places.  Everyone  knows  that 
the use of children for military purposes is in itself a 
crime  against  humanity.  We  regret  to  report  that  all 
this happened with the support of certain countries that 
sought to torpedo the Government’s efforts to restore 
the stability of our country.
We  welcome  United  Nations  support  for  the 
electoral process through the United Nations Electoral 
Observer  Mission  in  Burundi,  whose  observers  were 
deployed  in  much  of  the  country.  The  decisions  of 
the  Constitutional  Courts  of  Burundi  and  the  East 
African  Community,  which  confirmed  the  legality  of 
the candidacy of Pierre Nkurunziza, were not enough 
to  stop  the  insurrection  initiated  by  the  opposition 
and civil society. That proved once more their hidden 
agenda to destabilize the country. Yet everyone knows 
that the interpretation of the domestic laws of a country, 
including  its  constitution,  is  a  matter  for  its  legal 
authorities. This is also a reflection of the sovereignty 
of any independent country.
We believe that the peoples of this world must be 
respected in their choices. While remaining receptive 
to the advice of friends, the people of Burundi deserve 
to have the choice that they made in the recent elections 
respected. They do not ask for more than this, and it is 
a question neither of blind stubbornness nor, even less, 
of the obstinacy of a leader or a people, as some of our 
traditional friends from the North think.
The instigators of the aforementioned insurrection 
were  supported  by  certain  political  parties  without 
popular  support  that  knew  in  advance  they  would 
lose the elections. Having therefore decided to bypass 
the  ballot  box,  these  political  parties  only  wanted 
transitional  arrangements  similar 
the  Arusha 
negotiations  as  a  stepping-stone  to  power.  Their  aim 
was  to  cause  trouble  in  order  to  prove  that  it  was 
impossible  to  organize  the  electoral  process.  Some 
media  were  unfortunately  on  their  side.  To  amplify 
their  action,  certain  non-governmental  organizations 
supported them financially and morally at a time when 
some civil society organizations were stakeholders.
to 
What  was  not  known  until  now  is  that  this 
insurrection  was  the  tree  that  hid  the  woods,  that  is, 
the  failed  coup  that  was  being  prepared.  It  had  been 
in  preparation  for  some  time  by  the  same  actors,  in 
collaboration  with  some  civil-society  organizations. 
The  date  of  13  May  2015  will  remain  etched  in  the 
memories  of  the  people  of  Burundi.  Unable  to  seize 
the institutions of sovereignty, the mutineers would use 
local and international media to announce to the nation 
and  the  whole  world  that  they  already  had  control  of 
the national radio and television broadcasting system, 
that  the  international  airport  and  all  borders  were 
closed, that the Constitution was suspended. In short, 
it  was  a  veritable  media  war  that  did  not  reflect  the 
reality on the ground in any way. The Government of 
Burundi  appreciates  for  its  true  value  the  support  of 
the  international  community,  regional  organizations, 
and  the  loyalist  forces  that  quickly  condemned  the 
attempted  putsch  and  which  called  for  respect  for  the 
constitutional order.
After the failure of the coup d’état, some critics fled 
to one of our neighbouring countries, which has been 
sheltering them and assisting them in their campaign to 
destabilize our country. Burundi has remained watchful 
and condemns that hostile attitude, which contravenes 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  other  relevant 
instruments of international and regional organizations 
of which we are members.
Faced  with  these  problems  in  the  wake  of  the 
failed putsch, the Summit of Heads of State of the East 
African Community recommended that the elections be 
postponed so as to enable all political parties and actors 
to participate under better conditions. Burundi acceded 
to  the  decision  in  order  to  head  off  any  pretexts  for 
contesting  the  results.  The  municipal,  legislative  and 
presidential elections were therefore postponed twice, 
but  could  not  be  delayed  beyond  the  constitutional 
deadlines. At all costs we had to avoid ending up in a 
constitutional vacuum.
To  mark  Burundi’s  democratic  progress,  we 
succeeded in introducing single ballots and consolidating 
several rounds of voting. After this electoral marathon, 
therefore, consultations between the country’s various 
political  forces  enabled  us  to  establish  the  offices  of 
both  Houses  of  Parliament,  with  the  participation 
of  the  former  leader  of  the  opposition,  Mr.  Agathon 
Rwasa, President of the Amizero y’Abarundi coalition. 
Following  an  internal  dialogue,  the  new  Government 
was named on 24 August and consists of 20 ministers, 
including  five  from  the  opposition.  All  of  that  was 
carried  out  in  strict  accordance  with  the  Arusha 
Agreement and constitutional balance.
With 
the  elections  over, 
the  Government  of 
Burundi has now launched another political phase, that 
of dialogue, one that aims to be inclusive, sincere and 
open to all issues and that is embodied in the National 
8/25 
15-29664
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.23
Commission for inter-Burundian Dialogue, established 
by  presidential  decree  on  23  September.  Its  main 
mission is to lead an inter-Burundian dialogue process 
on  the  issues  both  inside  and  outside  the  country, 
particularly  as  they  relate  to  social  issues,  politics, 
peacebuilding,  security,  economic  development,  the 
Arusha Agreement, the Constitution, the comprehensive 
ceasefire agreement, the Charter of National Unity and 
so forth.
Those arrested during the insurrection will receive 
a fair trial and have the right to a defence. We should 
emphasize  that  minors  recruited  into  the  movement 
through  violence  will  be  pardoned,  and  only  those 
responsible  for  serious  crimes  will  have  to  face  trial. 
As to refugees, Burundi hopes to see more involvement 
on  the  part  of  its  partners  and  friends  in  helping  to 
facilitate  the  voluntary  return  of  Burundians  wishing 
to come home.
Based on the main conclusions of the discussions, 
the  Commission  will  make  recommendations  to  the 
Government,  the  political  parties,  civil  society  and 
religious  groups  in  order  to  arrive  at  agreement  on 
the changes to be made to the founding documents in 
the  interests  of  all  Burundians.  The  Commission  will 
consist of 15 Burundian nationals appointed by decree 
and in accordance with the constitutional balances. We 
take this opportunity to once again ask for support for 
the process from Burundi’s partners, starting with the 
United  Nations,  which  has  recently  demanded  firmly 
that we organize a genuinely inclusive dialogue in our 
country.
It should be recalled that this dialogue framework 
comes a few months after the establishment of the Truth 
and Reconciliation Commission, whose main task is to 
shed light on the crises that have dogged Burundi since 
its independence. With a continuing view to restoring 
an  atmosphere  conducive 
to  peace  and  security 
throughout  the  country,  the  President  of  the  Republic 
has just made another gesture of goodwill by signing 
a  decree  allowing  those  who  illegally  have  weapons 
to  return  voluntarily  within  a  month  without  fear  of 
prosecution  by  the  legal  authorities.  We  should  note 
that the decision is also a response to the disarmament 
recommendations of the Summits of Heads of State of 
the East African Community and of the African Union.
Concerning freedom of the media, which some have 
been concerned about, we would like it known that the 
issue is important to us, too. However, it is important 
not  to  lump  all  the  media  together.  Of  the  20  or  so 
private media outlets operating in Burundi, only three 
radio stations and one television and radio broadcaster 
face judicial investigations into their alleged role in the 
failed coup of 13 May before it is decided whether they 
can  reopen.  Other  representatives  of  the  media,  both 
national  and  international,  operating  on  Burundian 
territory have continued to broadcast without difficulty. 
Moreover, the media will also occupy a prominent place 
in the inter-Burundian dialogue soon to begin.
On  the  socioeconomic  front,  Burundi  has  made 
significant progress in recent years. Women and girls’ 
involvement  in  running  the  country  is  now  a  reality. 
Indeed,  the  Constitution  reserves  a  quota  of  at  least 
30 per cent of seats for them in decision-making bodies. 
Women make up 50 per cent of the Senate and 36 per 
cent  of  the  National  Assembly.  In  the  Government, 
women  head  important  ministries  such  as  those  of 
health,  education  and  higher  education  and  scientific 
research, justice, trade and municipal development. As 
for women and armed conflict, we have made progress in 
recruiting women into the defence and security forces, 
which also contributes to their effective participation in 
peacekeeping missions.
Turning to education, free tuition has enabled us to 
achieve our ambition of having as many girls as boys 
in  primary  school.  That  policy,  introduced  in  2005 
and based on community efforts, has also involved the 
population in building school infrastructure, which in 
2014 enabled us to achieve a school-attendance rate of 
96  per  cent,  compared  with  59.5  per  cent  in  2005.  In 
the health sector, free health care for children under the 
age of 5 and pregnant women has significantly reduced 
the mortality rate for children under 5 and for infants 
at birth.
In  the  area  of  transport  infrastructure,  all  of  the 
roads  linking  the  country’s  provinces  are  now  paved, 
except for one in one province on which work is ongoing.
Among the important reforms introduced in recent 
years,  I  should  mention  that  all  revenues  are  now 
channelled  through  the  Burundi  Revenue  Authority, 
whose  establishment  has  given  us  a  reliable  taxation 
body  harmonized  with  the  East  African  Community. 
Based on the performances achieved with regard to the 
Millennium Development Goals, we are entering the era 
of the Sustainable Development Goals with confidence 
and  are  determined  to  implement,  over  the  short  and 
the long terms, every policy able to curb poverty in our 
country.
15-29664
9/25
A/70/PV.23 
01/10/2015
At the regional level, Burundi will continue to work 
with  other  countries  to  better  respond  to  the  security 
objectives  laid  out  in  the  founding  documents  of  the 
Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries, the 
East African Community, the International Conference 
on the Great Lakes Region and many others.
On the international front, Burundi has pledged to 
continue the work it began nearly a decade ago in the 
spirit of international solidarity, namely, to participate 
in  peacekeeping  operations  wherever  asked  to  do  so. 
Accordingly, we have not shrunk from the call to help our 
brothers and sisters in Somalia, so that they can regain 
their dignity. When we sent our troops to Somalia at the 
beginning of operations initiated by the African Union, 
Burundi became the second-largest troop-contributing 
country in Somalia. Our brave men and women are also 
contributing  energetically  to  peacekeeping  operations 
in the Central African Republic, Darfur in the Sudan, 
Côte d’Ivoire and Haiti. We will not only continue our 
commitments to the peacekeeping operations in which 
we are involved in a spirit of partnership and mutually 
beneficial cooperation, but, in the various international 
forums in which Burundi has a voice, it will also pursue 
building a more united and just world, a world in which 
States  respect  each  other  on  an  equal  and  sovereign 
footing.
Burundi wishes, however, that the United Nations 
and other partners would step up their support to troop-
contributing  countries  in  order  to  enable  a  rapid  and 
effective response. Burundi embraces all strategies that 
aim  to  eradicate  the  major  threat  posed  by  terrorism 
and  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  fight  alongside  the 
international community in the common struggle. We 
support  the  full  implementation  of  Security  Council 
resolution  1540  (2004)  so  as  to  prevent  non-State 
actors in particular from obtaining biological, nuclear, 
chemical or other weapons in order to commit terrorist 
acts.
Burundi  is  firmly  committed  to  working  with  all 
other bilateral and multilateral international partners to 
take up the challenge of climate change. Our country 
is  part  of  a  new  political  momentum  that  promises 
to  provide  a  rapid  solution  to  the  problems  related  to 
climate change. Accordingly, we have high expectations 
for the session of the Conference of the Parties to the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change, to be held in Paris in December.
Regarding  the  issue  of  reforming  the  Security 
Council, our country subscribes to the logic of finding 
a comprehensive solution that meets the broad approval 
of the Member States, and that will uphold the common 
interests of our States and serve the long-term interests 
of  our  Organization.  It  is  therefore  our  wish  that  the 
decisions on this important issue reflect the views of the 
individual  States  and  of  the  continental  organizations 
to which they belong.
Ultimately, we, like the other developing countries, 
are  asking  for  a  more  substantial  amount  of  support 
from the United Nations and our partners, in order to 
make increased progress as we implement the new post-
2015 Agenda. For our part, we are committed to taking 
ownership of the Agenda from the grass-roots to the top 
level of our Government, for the benefit of the national 
and international community.
Lastly, Burundi wants stability in the Great Lakes 
region, based on the principle of non-interference in the 
internal affairs of other countries and particular regard 
for  the  commitments  made  within  the  framework  of 
regional  organizations,  which  all  advocate  peace  and 
security, as the foundation for all development.
Long live the United Nations family.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Burundi  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Joseph  Butore,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of 
Burundi, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Moisés  Omar  Halleslevens 
Acevedo,  Vice -President  of  the  Republic  of 
Nicaragua 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  
Assembly will now hear an address by the  
Vice-President of the Republic of Nicaragua.
Mr.  Moisés  Omar  Halleslevens  Acevedo,  Vice-
President  of  the  Republic  of  Nicaragua,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Moisés 
Omar  Halleslevens  Acevedo,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Nicaragua, and inviting him to address the 
Assembly.
Mr.  Acevedo  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Please receive the greetings of the people of Nicaragua 
and our President, Commander Daniel Ortega Saavedra. 
10/25 
15-29664
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.23
We  wish  the  new  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
success in the responsibilities that he has undertaken. 
Today I come to the General Assembly to express 
the  position  of  Nicaragua  and  that  of  our  President, 
Commander Daniel Ortega Saavedra. I shall therefore 
deliver the message on behalf of our Head of State and 
Government.
“This  year,  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventieth  session  commemorates  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  our  Organization.  Seven  decades 
ago,  51  States  signed  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  Nicaragua  is  a  founding  State.  The 
world  was,  at  that  time,  emerging  from  a  terrible 
war,  and  humankind  was  crying  out  for  ‘peace, 
peace,  peace’,  as  our  immortal  poet  Rubén  Darío 
said.  Since  24  October  1945,  the  United  Nations 
has  projected  to  the  world  the  image  of  an  entity 
that  would  bring  peace,  but,  from  the  time  of  its 
founding  until  today,  its  stated  objectives  have 
been frustrated.
“As we celebrate its seventieth anniversary, we 
are now 193 Member States, and the Organization 
was  created  in  an  entirely  different  world.  Now, 
it  must  be  transformed.  We  live  on  a  planet  with 
more  people,  and  we  are  threatened  by  numerous 
and highly complex challenges. It is a world where 
egotism, arrogance and interference have completely 
altered and dismantled the right to peace, sovereign 
security and life for millions of human beings. We 
must  therefore  reflect  deeply  before  reinventing, 
democratizing  and  recasting  the  United  Nations. 
We want an Organization with equal rights for all 
its  Members  and  one  that  more  effectively  meets 
the  challenges  of  justice;  equitable,  sustainable, 
secure and sovereign development; and, above all, 
peace. 
“The  increasing  greed  of  global  capitalism, 
particularly  in  the  Middle  East  and  Africa,  has 
caused  wars  and  created,  fostered,  cultivated  and 
exploited  fanaticism  and  terrorism,  which  have, 
in  turn,  spread  insecurity  and  destruction,  and 
caused  all  kinds  of  crises  —  crises  of  infinite 
proportions  and  ramifications  with  war,  food,  the 
environmental, labour and humanitarian matters at 
their heart. 
“The  forced  and  brutal  displacement  of 
thousands of people, including the elderly, children 
and  entire  families,  from  countries  that  were 
previously  developed,  such  as  Syria,  Libya  and 
Iraq,  and  from  sub-Saharan  Africa,  lays  bare  the 
true  nature  of  wars,  terrorism,  and  the  conflicts 
that we are experiencing. They have been created 
and  fuelled  by  the  greed  of  the  empire  of  global 
capitalism. We have all said that that situation will 
get  worse  unless  we  act  together  to  address  and 
resolve the causes of so much distress, barbarism 
and catastrophe.
“Our  Organization  should  promote  respect, 
peace,  sovereign  security,  justice  and  solidarity 
among  human  beings.  The  Organization  must 
respond  in  the  face  of  that  barbaric  intervention 
in and interruption of the tranquillity and the right 
to prosperity in the lives of millions of families of 
countries and entire populations. The Organization 
must  respond  to  the  challenges  of  our  time  with 
measures  and  activities  that  reflect  the  supreme 
interests  of  people  —  respect,  the  inviolability  of 
sovereignty,  the  recognition  of  national  natural 
resources and the promotion of security, justice and 
peace.
“We  must  not  pass  over  the  fact  that  the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs)  was  hindered  by  the  terrible  impact  of 
wars and terrorism, created and encouraged by the 
imperialist empires. Similarly, climate imbalance, 
or  climate  change  —  the  unusual  frequency 
of  earthquakes,  volcanic  eruptions,  disasters, 
epidemics, droughts, floods, landslides, all known 
calamities  —  have  shown  no  mercy  in  the  most 
impoverished countries. The peoples and countries 
that  had  fully  implemented  the  MDGs,  such  as 
Libya, Syria and Iraq, have witnessed interventions 
and  been  devastated  by  terrorism,  which  was 
promoted to sustain imperialist invasions and wars. 
All  those  actions  have  been  disguised  as  internal 
conflicts,  brought  about  in  an  effort  to  seize  and 
control  our  natural  resources.  There  is  no  region 
on  the  planet  where  the  imperialist  hand  has  not 
left  its  mark,  in  the  form  of  intrigue,  aggression, 
manipulation and all kinds of interference directed 
against  legitimate  democratic  processes,  intended 
to  weaken  Governments,  influence  institutions, 
undermine  harmony  and  engineer  self-serving 
disruptions  in  the  social,  political  and  economic 
lives of our peoples.
“In  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  we 
have  reiterated  our  wish  to  declare  our  region  a 
15-29664
11/25
A/70/PV.23 
01/10/2015
zone of peace and equitable development and our 
commitment to creating conditions in each country 
and  in  the  region  that  will  enable  us  to  achieve, 
through  dialogue  and  collaboration,  firm  and 
enduring peace and justice.
“To carry out the outstanding work under the 
MDGs  and  the  implementation  of  the  new  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution 
70/1), we need to restore peace, sovereign security, 
respect for independence, protection of the natural 
resources  of  every  population  and  respect  for  the 
dignity  and  cultures  of  all  peoples.  To  work  for 
justice,  equality  and  development  requires  the 
establishment of a culture of meeting, dialogue and 
consensus, and it requires recovering the essential 
values of humankind. It necessitates putting an end 
to  the  wars  and  terrorism  that  have  been  created 
and fuelled. It also requires the constructive work 
of  dialogue  and  the  respectful  affirmation  of 
sovereign security and peace.
“Our  Government  of  national  reconciliation 
and unity has worked to eradicate poverty, as the 
national  and  international  indicators  show.  As 
we  fulfil  that  ongoing  commitment,  and  as  our 
Government,  country  and  people  are  committed 
to  the  rights,  welfare  and  security  of  Nicaraguan 
families, we propose here in this Hall that the United 
Nations take on the responsibility of addressing the 
very necessary battles to come.
“We  must  work  for  justice,  peace,  respect, 
dialogue  and  sovereign  security  in  the  world.  To 
do that, we must bring about the necessary changes 
so that the Organization can serve the interests of 
all its Members. We would like to emphasize that 
during  his  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-third  session,  in  2008,  Father  Miguel 
d’Escoto  Brockmann  developed  some  ideas  and 
proposals  in  fulfilment  of  Nicaragua’s  mandate 
to  establish  the  basis  for  a  discussion  of  such 
changes in a draft document on the reinvention of 
the United Nations. We believe that only when the 
United Nations is equitable and democratic, recast, 
re-created  and  fit  for  the  purpose  of  serving  the 
world and humankind in the twenty-first century, 
can we tackle the great challenges of our time.
“Our Government and our people advocate for 
a world with values, in which human beings bring 
out the best in each other and foster the best possible 
conditions for a just, sustainable, equitable, secure, 
sovereign  development  and  in  which  advances  in 
science and technology in all areas of our lives are 
accessible to all and shared by all. The Government 
and the people of Nicaragua hope that the twenty-
first session of the Conference of the Parties to the 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change  in  Paris  will  result  in  a  commitment 
to  climate  justice  as  well  as  concluding  an 
indispensable  policy  of  indemnization  translated 
into  direct  and  unconditional  cooperation.  The 
carbon emitters and those who are responsible for 
despoiling  and  degrading  our  planet  and  causing 
imbalances must recognize our losses and help to 
promote the recovery of Mother Earth and restore 
its right to health and life and the right to health and 
life of the peoples of the world.
“Nicaragua calls for a world of solidarity and 
complementarity  and  a  reshaped  United  Nations 
in  which  everyone’s  interests  are  served  and  all 
Member States can listen and talk to each other on 
equal footing. We also call for the United Nations 
agencies  to  play  a  respectful,  responsible  and 
ethical role, devoid of any form of interference and 
intervention  in  the  internal  affairs  of  sovereign 
States.
“We  come  with  greetings  from  the  people 
of  Nicaragua  and  their  hope  that  the  seventieth 
anniversary  and 
the  commitment  we  make 
will  result  in  a  transparent  and  deep  process  of 
reflection on how we can change and reinvent the 
Organization to make it democratic. Nicaragua, the 
land of Darío and Sandino, blessed and always free, 
is committed to the initiative to recreate, reinvent 
and  recast  the  United  Nations  and  adapt  it  to  the 
growing demands of a democratic Organization that 
serves the supreme interests of sovereign security, 
justice and peace in the world. I hope that we united 
nations  will  fulfil  that  role,  that  we  will  promote 
dialogue, 
respect,  understanding,  sovereignty, 
security, peace and a future without interference or 
dependency, and that we will work together on an 
equal footing, with everyone, for everyone, for the 
well-being of all. Let it be so.” 
That ends the address that President of Nicaragua, 
Mr. Daniel Ortega Saavedra, asked me to deliver on his 
behalf to the General Assembly on 1 October 2015.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
12/25 
15-29664
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.23
Republic  of  Nicaragua  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr.  Moisés  Omar  Halleslevens  Acevedo,  Vice-
President  of  the  Republic  of  Nicaragua,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Gaston Alphonso Browne, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Finance and 
Corporate Governance of Antigua and Barbuda
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Finance  and  Corporate 
Governance of Antigua and Barbuda.
Mr. Gaston Alphonso Browne, Prime Minister and 
Minister for Finance and Corporate Governance of 
Antigua and Barbuda, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Gaston 
Alphonso  Browne,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
Finance  and  Corporate  Governance  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Browne  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  Democracy, 
peace,  security,  rule  of  law  and  respect  for  human 
rights are crucial elements in achieving the economic 
and social development to which my people aspire. We 
are aware that, just as no development can take place 
without democracy, peace, security and the rule of law, 
so, too, little peace and certainly no security will exist 
without development. Development, peace and security, 
therefore, go hand in hand. They are inextricably linked.
But  I  am  disappointed  that  some  nations  within 
this  body  fail  to  recognize  that  if  development  is 
denied  to  any  section  of  humanity,  so  too  are  human 
rights. Today, we live in a world where — despite all 
the  utterances  to  the  contrary  —  might  is  still  right, 
and the big and strong continue to bully the poor, the 
weak  and  the  vulnerable.  Until  small  States  such  as 
mine are no longer bullied by larger and more powerful 
nations, despite our full compliance with international 
standards  and  practices,  human  rights  will  continue 
to  be  denied.  As  the  Organization  enters  its  seventy-
first  year,  it  is  time  that  Member  States  stop  paying 
lip  service  to  the  principle  of  sovereignty.  They  must 
show that they truly respect the sovereignty of States 
regardless of their size.
In the years since our independence the people of 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  have  built  solid  institutions  of 
democracy  and  respect  for  human,  civil  and  political 
rights.  We  guard  those  institutions  jealously,  and  we 
have  enshrined  them  in  our  Constitution  and  in  our 
laws. And we do so not only for ourselves, but for every 
investor in our country, every visitor to our shores and 
every  other  country  with  which  we  have  treaties  or 
conduct business.
However, my country is beset with all the problems 
and  challenges  that  confront  all  small  States.  They 
include remoteness, high transactional costs, threats to 
our survival from climate change, a limited economic 
base  and  a  small  resource  pool  to  fund  and  manage 
our  development  aspirations.  Those  realities  make  it 
difficult,  if  not  impossible,  for  my  small  country  to 
finance  its  development,  without  external  assistance 
and without access to foreign capital. But the people of 
my country do not wish to be beggars before the world 
community.  We  do  not  want  to  attend  meetings,  cap 
in one hand, begging bowl in the other. Yes, we want 
the  sympathy  and  understanding  of  the  international 
financial  institutions  and  development  agencies.  Yes, 
we  want  better  terms  of  trade  and  more  reasonable 
access  to  development  financing.  But  we  are  also 
determined  to  stand  on  our  own  two  feet  and  to  earn 
our  place  among  the  community  of  nations.  We  are 
resolved not to beg for it, but to work for it. However, 
the international community, particularly the rich and 
the powerful, must help us to work for the development 
we need, instead of placing obstacles in our way.
Yet,  11  years  after  the  World  Trade  Organization 
delivered a judgement in my country’s favour against a 
larger and vastly richer country for a trade violation that 
set  back  my  small  country  by  over  $100  million,  that 
country has failed to settle with us. Justice delayed is 
justice denied. After 11 years of not receiving the fruits 
of  that  judgement,  which,  incidentally,  are  lawfully 
due to my country, my people are entitled to conclude 
that the powerful continue to ignore and trample on the 
rights of the weak and that might is right.
In  the  international  trading  system,  my  small 
country with a population of 100,000 people is treated 
in  the  same  way  as  the  United  States  of  America, 
Canada  or  Japan.  Our  market  size  and  development 
status, which require us to be treated differently from 
larger  and  vastly  more  developed  countries,  receive 
scant  attention.  Our  need  for  access  to  concessionary 
financing  to  fund  our  development  is  accorded  even 
less  attention.  At  best,  we  are  treated  with  benign 
neglect. The arbitrary and unjust rules that are imposed 
15-29664
13/25
A/70/PV.23 
01/10/2015
upon us choke our efforts to diversify and develop our 
small economies and are even worse.
contrary to the objectives of the post-2015 development 
Agenda.
In that regard, my country condemns the recent list 
of  the  European  Commission,  in  which  several  small 
States  in  the  Caribbean  and  the  Pacific,  including 
Antigua and Barbuda, are falsely named as tax havens. 
Similarly,  my  country  deplores  the  list  of  tax  havens 
produced  by  individual  States  and  a  district  within 
the United States of America that has wrongfully and 
inappropriately  labelled  many  Caribbean  and  Pacific 
countries.
My country and others in the Caribbean all have tax 
information exchange agreements with the Government 
of  the  United  States  of  America.  We  have  been  fully 
cooperative  and  no  request  for  tax  information  has 
ever been denied. With regard to the European Union’s 
(EU) list of tax havens, Antigua and Barbuda has tax 
information exchange agreements with 18 of the 28 EU 
nations. Yet, because 10 of them, with which we do little 
or no business, arbitrarily and without consultation say 
that we are tax havens, we are placed on an EU rogue 
list that is published globally.
What is more, my country and many of the others 
wrongly named in both lists have been found to be fully 
compliant with all the relevant international standards. 
And  the  relevant  authorities  namely,  the  Financial 
Action Task Force and the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development’s  Global  Forum  on 
Transparency  and  Exchange  of  Information  for  Tax 
Purposes, have also found us to be fully compliant. 
It cannot be right that powerful countries unjustly 
tarnish our small country’s reputation, despite all that 
we  have  done—at  great  cost  in  view  of  our  limited 
resources  —  to  comply  with  international  standards.
Such  wrongful  tarnishing  opens  the  possibility  of 
financial institutions in Europe and the United States 
discontinuing correspondent relations with our banks. 
If that happens, no one in our small States will be able 
to  pay  for  any  goods  or  services  purchased  from  the 
United States or Europe, including food, tuition for our 
young  studying  abroad,  and  medication  and  medical 
bills for our people in need of specialized treatment.
The  consequences  would  be  disastrous,  since  we 
would  be  excluded  from  the  international  payment 
system  and  would  be  unable  to  settle  our  trade  and 
investment  transactions.  Our  banking  system  would 
collapse, our economy would be irreparably damaged, 
and our people would be plunged into abject poverty, 
International  principles  to  which  small  States 
readily  adhere  should  not  be  overturned  by  bigger 
countries that seek to impose their will on smaller ones. 
It is not fair; it is not just; it is not democratic; and it is 
patently wrong.
My  country  is  not  looking  for  handouts,  nor  are 
many others like mine. We do not want to endure the 
indignity  of  begging.  What  we  want  is  a  chance  to 
develop,  a  chance  to  improve  the  living  standards  of 
our people.
In this regard, I wish to salute the Government of 
the People’s Republic of China, whose President, in this 
very Hall a few days ago, undertook to establish a fund 
for South-South cooperation with a pledge of $2 billion 
to support developing countries in the implementation 
of  the  post-2015  development  Agenda.  I  further  hail 
China’s announcement of a 10-year, $1 billion fund to 
support the work of the United Nations in peacekeeping 
and development.  China should be acknowledged and 
applauded for the care it is demonstrating for others in 
the global community.
I  acknowledge,  too,  the  contributions  of  two 
other developing nations, Venezuela and Cuba, which 
have  made  significant  contributions  to  South-South 
cooperation.
Despite  the  economic  challenges  that  these  three 
developing  countries  face,  they  have  given  help  to 
other  countries  unstintingly.  If  these  three  countries, 
challenged  as  they  are,  can  recognize  an  obligation 
to all humankind, regardless of race or colour or of a 
country’s size or geographical location, surely rich and 
developed  countries  should  be  able  to  do  the  same.  I 
call  on  these  developed  countries  to  stand  up  and  be 
counted.
I applaud those countries, such as Britain, Germany 
and Sweden, that have met their commitments to deliver 
0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product as official 
development assistance. I urge the others to follow their 
lead and to join them not as a giveaway to beggars but 
as  an  investment  in  a  safer  and  more  peaceful  world, 
whose progress will contribute to the prosperity of all 
humankind.
On  the  matter  of  peace  and  security,  my  country 
firmly  believes  that  the  world’s  prospects  for  peace 
14/25 
15-29664
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.23
and  security  were  greatly  enhanced  by  two  recent 
developments.
The first is the establishment of diplomatic relations 
between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of  America.  We 
hail  that  accord,  and  we  call  upon  the  United  States 
Congress  to  lift  the  embargo  against  Cuba,  which 
serves no one’s interest or any useful purpose. Further, 
we  support  the  call  for  the  United  States  to  return 
Guantanamo Bay to Cuba.
At  the  same  time,  my  country  congratulates  the 
United  States  Government  on  the  agreement  reached 
with  Iran.  While  we  are  mindful  of  the  fact  that  five 
other  countries  were  involved  in  the  process,  we 
recognize that President Obama faced the most difficult 
circumstances.  We  commend  his  far-sightedness,  as 
we  applaud  the  willingness  of  all  of  the  participating 
countries, 
to  overcome  obstacles 
through negotiations and dialogue.
including  Iran, 
The President of Iran told the Assembly that while 
his  country  will  not  forget  the  past,  it  does  not  wish 
to live in the past. He has committed his nation to the 
practical  path  to  security  and  stability  through  the 
development  that  comes  with  economic  engagement. 
My  country  welcomes  that  commitment  and,  in  turn, 
stands ready to participate with Iran in such economic 
engagement.
I  express  Antigua  and  Barbuda’s  deep  concern 
at  the  devastation  of  neighbouring  Caribbean  island 
Dominica by tropical storm Erika. I also want to make 
the point that countries in the Caribbean did not await 
an international response. In fact, we went ahead and 
provided aid to Dominica and its suffering people, and 
we did so within the limited capacity of our respective 
States members of the Caribbean Community. We made 
immediate financial and other tangible contributions to 
Dominica.
Despite  our  own  challenges,  we  stood  up  for  the 
humanitarian  needs  of  our  neighbour.  But  even  as 
we  did  so,  we  were  aware  that  wider  international 
support is necessary. Therefore, I appeal for continued 
international  action  for  Dominica  in  its  recovery 
process. I also express my country’s deep worry about 
the  Bahamas,  which  is  being  battered  by  a  Category 
4  hurricane  even  as  I  address  the  Assembly.  There  is 
no  greater  evidence,  if  any  were  needed,  that  climate 
change is now one of the most serious challenges facing 
small  island  States.  The  time  for  action  on  climate 
change is now. There is no more time for excuses.
Climate  change  is  the  greatest  threat  confronting 
all of humankind. It knows no borders, and it respects 
neither  size  nor  economic  and  military  power.  All  of 
our countries are its potential victims, even where its 
existence and danger continue to be denied. But it poses 
the greatest threat to the smallest on our shared planet, 
particularly  the  island  States  in  the  Caribbean,  the 
Pacific and the Indian Ocean.
What  happened  in  Dominica  a  few  weeks  ago 
also  befell  Vanuatu  and  Tuvalu  in  the  Pacific  earlier 
this  year.  What  is  sad  is  that  these  disasters  are  not 
occurring  in  these  islands  through  their  own  fault. 
They are happening because of the excesses of larger 
and more powerful countries, which will not bend from 
their abuse of the world’s atmosphere even at the risk of 
eliminating other societies, some older than their own.
Increasingly, several of these islands are drowning, 
and  their  age-old  civilizations  are  facing  extinction. 
In  this  connection,  I  hail  the  clean-energy  proposal 
of United States, and I commend President Obama for 
this  initiative.  It  is  a  most  enlightened  proposal,  as  a 
result of which the people of the United States will not 
only maintain the quality of their own country but will 
also stand up for the rights of other societies to have a 
homeland and to raise their children in the land of their 
ancestors.
I  am  thinking  particularly  of  the  people  of  the 
Marshall Islands and Tuvalu in the Pacific; of Maldives 
in the Indian Ocean; and a few Caribbean islands where 
the  prospect  of  disappearance  looms  large  from  sea-
level rise. All industrialized nations should accept their 
responsibilities  as  chief  contributors  in  emitting  high 
levels of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. If the 
countries  of  the  United  Nations  want  their  pledge  for 
democracy, human rights and peace to be meaningful, 
they must resolve to make the Conference on Climate 
Change  in  Paris  later  this  year  a  resounding  success.
That  success  will  be  best  measured  if  our  nations 
collectively ensure that the outcome of the Conference is 
an ambitious international agreement that limits global 
warming below 2°C, in order to ensure the survival of 
small States. Financing is also important. Not because 
we  are  begging,  but  because  the  world’s  interests  are 
served  by  it.  Financing  the  cost  of  mitigation  must 
be  done  through  an  internationally  legally  binding 
commitment to additional and predictable support.
I want to end my statement by thanking God for the 
United Nations. If it did not exist, small countries such 
as mine would have no voice at all. We know the United 
15-29664
15/25
A/70/PV.23 
01/10/2015
Nations needs reform to make it more democratic and 
certainly  more  representative.  But,  within  its  bodies, 
we  have  a  platform  and  an  opportunity  to  hold  up  a 
mirror to the world that reflects the marginalization we 
confront. That is of great value to us. My country hopes 
for  a  tomorrow  that  offers  us  better  prospects,  where 
the opportunities in the world are not monopolized by 
the rich few but are shared for the advancement of all 
humankind. In this Organization, fair-minded nations, 
acting together, still have the chance to make equity a 
reality for the small as much as for the big.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Finance  and  Corporate 
Governance of Antigua and Barbuda for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Gaston Alphonso Browne, Prime Minister and 
Minister  for  Finance  and  Corporate  Governance 
of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. John Key, Prime Minister of 
New Zealand
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of New Zealand.
Mr. John Key, Prime Minister of New Zealand, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. John 
Key, Prime Minister of New Zealand, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.
Mr. Key (New Zealand): The seventieth anniversary 
of the United Nations is a good opportunity to reflect 
on  the  state  of  the  Organization.  For  most  of  us,  the 
United  Nations  has  been  one  of  the  key  international 
realities  of  our  lives.  It  has  been  at  the  heart  of  what 
has  shaped  us  in  the  significant  developments  of  the 
post-Second World War era. But as we all know, it is not 
perfect. A lot can be said about the shortcomings of the 
United Nations. They are many and some are serious. 
But  there  are  things  this  Organization  can  do  that  no 
other  international  body  can.  And  it  remains  the  key 
reference point for States when there is a problem. That 
is why New Zealand fought so hard for its current seat 
on  the  Security  Council.  We  sought  election  because 
the Council is the primary body for the maintenance of 
international peace and security.
New  Zealand  is  a  small  country  at  the  bottom  of 
the world. Despite being far from many of the world’s 
trouble spots, we are not immune to their consequences. 
This time last year, I pressed the case for New Zealand’s 
election to the Security Council. I would like to thank 
Member  States  for  their  faith  in  us.  In  the  past  nine 
months  we  have  striven  to  repay  them.  Much  of  the 
debate  in  this  Hall  this  week  has  been  about  where 
the United Nations, particularly the Security Council, 
has not performed. The conflicts and human suffering 
in Syria, Yemen, South Sudan and a long list of other 
countries  show  how  far  we  are  from  achieving  the 
aspirations  of  our  founders  and  of  today’s  Members. 
So, too, does the lack of progress in bringing peace to 
the Middle East.
Since we have been on the Council, we have found 
it as hard as many of those here warned. The Council’s 
agenda is lengthy and contentious. The dynamics within 
it are difficult. When Council members work together, 
as they did over the recent agreement on Iran’s nuclear 
capability, they can still deliver on the Council’s role as 
it is set out in the Charter of the United Nations. The 
Iran deal was a notable bright spot this year. Although 
it was negotiated in Vienna, only the Council had the 
power to implement it. New Zealand is proud that this 
occurred during our presidency of the Council in July. 
Now, the deal has to be implemented and its example 
followed.  That  is  because  this  important  agreement 
must  become  the  basis  for  something  wider  —  a 
fundamental resetting of relationships and a foundation 
for the resolution of other regional conflicts.
Nowhere  is  the  resetting  of  relationships  needed 
more  than  in  Syria.  Syria  has  been  torn  apart  by 
internal  divisions  and  a  leader  prepared  to  wage  war 
on his own people to cling to power. External actors, 
from  within  the  region  and  beyond,  have  tried  to  tilt 
the balance in pursuit of their own interests. And as the 
country descended into lawlessness, the evil nightmare 
that is the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), 
which first took hold in Syria, spread death and terror 
in the region and beyond. ISIL’s warped ideology and 
unprecedented use of social media to export its twisted 
message is a threat to all of us, even a country as distant 
as New Zealand.
That is why New Zealand has joined the international 
coalition  against  ISIL.  We  are  doing  what  we  can  to 
help  the  victims  of  the  Syrian  conflict  and  combat 
the  scourge  of  ISIL.  New  Zealand’s  armed  forces  are 
helping the Government of Iraq to train its soldiers to 
16/25 
15-29664
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.23
defend its people. In response to the humanitarian crisis 
we are helping to fund programmes in Jordan, Lebanon 
and Turkey to assist their efforts to support thousands 
of  displaced  refugees.  Like  many  other  countries, 
we  are  implementing  an  emergency  Syrian  refugee 
resettlement programme.
matter of urgency and another critical issue on which 
the Security Council should lead. We are told that the 
conditions  are  not  right  on  the  ground  and  that  the 
parties are not ready, but we should not let conditions 
on  the  ground  dictate  our  actions,  if  our  actions  can 
help bring a solution.
None of that gets to the root of the problems in Syria. 
All  Council  members  carry  responsibility  for  ending 
the misery in Syria and beyond. The consequences of 
inaction are not theoretical. The human toll is real — a 
3-year-old  boy  dead,  washed  up  on  a  Turkish  beach; 
hundreds  of  thousands  killed  and  millions  forced 
to  flee  their  homes.  We  cannot  ignore  the  huddled 
travellers in the railway stations of Europe or the reality 
of refugees scratching out a meagre existence in camps 
and makeshift homes in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon. 
More than 160 leaders have shown up in New York this 
week  to  mark  the  enduring  importance  of  the  United 
Nations over the past 70 years. Yet we do so against the 
backdrop of the worst refugee crisis since the Second 
World War.
Every one of us sees the harrowing images daily. At 
the same time we see the consequences of the Security 
Council’s failure to act over the past four years. It is time 
for the Council to step up. It is time for it to stop talking 
about what is right and do what is right. It is time for the 
Council to do the job for which it was created. It is time 
for its members to set aside their vested interests and 
historical alliances in order to stop the violence and end 
the suffering. It is time for the Council to do its duty by 
those who have lost their lives and loved ones and the 
millions who have been displaced. We cannot afford to 
let the Council go from an institution with failures to a 
failed institution.
There  must  be  a  political  solution  to  the  conflict 
in Syria. And it must come soon. It should address all 
issues and involve all relevant actors, from within the 
region  and  beyond.  The  question  is  not  Al-Assad  or 
ISIL. Both need to be dealt with. A workable political 
solution will not be a perfect one. Indeed, it is a classic 
case of the perfect being the enemy of the good. It will 
require international cooperation and compromise, on 
all sides.
The  Council  also  needs  to  engage  in  making 
progress on the Middle East peace process. Since being 
elected  to  the  Council,  New  Zealand  has  made  clear 
its view that the status quo is unsustainable. It puts at 
risk the achievement of the two-State solution that we 
all know is the best hope for a lasting peace. That is a 
We stood for the Council because we believe small 
States  have  a  positive  contribution  to  make,  and  we 
wanted to provide a voice for those who go unheard too 
often. It was for that latter reason that we arranged the 
first open debate on the peace and security challenges 
of small island developing States during our presidency 
in July (see S/PV.7499). We were heartened by the level 
of  participation  of  both  those  States  and  the  broader 
membership.
The challenge for a small elected member to have 
its  voice  heard  and  its  views  taken  into  account  is 
considerable.  Part  of  the  problem  is  structural.  That 
the  five  permanent  members  of  the  Council  have  the 
right of veto creates an extraordinary power imbalance. 
That  imbalance  is  exacerbated  by  their  practices  of 
prenegotiating  outcomes  before  engaging  with  the 
10 elected members and of taking no action when one of 
the five does not agree. That experience has reaffirmed 
to us that New Zealand was right to oppose the right of 
veto when the Charter of the United Nations was being 
drafted.
It  is  still  our  view  that  the  right  of  veto  is  a 
constraint  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  Council  and 
realizing the aspirations of the States Members of the 
United Nations. For that reason, New Zealand supports 
the two proposals being put forward this year — by the 
Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency  group 
of countries and by France and Mexico — to limit the 
use  of  the  veto  in  mass  atrocity  situations.  The  fact 
that two permanent members are supportive represents 
progress,  but  part  of  the  problem  is  also  behavioural. 
The  permanent  members  have  become  used 
to 
exercising power and are protective of their privileged 
position. They presume to control the Council’s agenda 
and  to  determine  its  processes.  Despite  that,  we  are 
doing what we can to ensure that the elected members 
have the information and the opportunity to contribute 
effectively  to  Council  decision-making.  And,  in  turn, 
that it makes effective decisions.
We want to contribute to a Council that is genuinely 
focused  on  finding  practical  solutions  to  political 
problems and not on preserving the status quo. We are 
well  aware  that  the  conflicts  on  the  Council’s  agenda 
15-29664
17/25
A/70/PV.23 
01/10/2015
are complex and not easily solved, but we are realistic in 
our expectations of what can be achieved. New Zealand 
believes  that  the  body  responsible  for  maintaining 
international peace and security has a responsibility to 
find solutions to the world’s most pressing crises.
The President took the Chair.
Only  the  United  Nations  and  its  agencies  have 
the  capacity  to  focus  world  attention  across  a  range 
of  issues.  That  was  demonstrated  last  week  with  the 
adoption  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  We 
sincerely hope that the Conference of the Parties will 
be similarly successful in Paris in December, with the 
adoption of a meaningful agreement on climate change.
Healthy  and  productive  oceans  are  a  key 
requirement for a sustainable future. I was pleased to 
announce  earlier  this  week  the  creation  of  a  marine 
sanctuary  around  New  Zealand’s  Kermadec  Islands. 
The Kermadec Ocean Sanctuary will comprise 620,000 
square kilometres of ocean in one of the most pristine 
and special environments on Earth. The Sanctuary will 
be one of the world’s largest and most significant fully 
protected marine areas. It will cover an area twice the 
size of our land mass and better protect the habitats of 
a huge array of sea creatures.
New  Zealand  is  committed  to  managing  our 
oceans  responsibly,  and  we  are  working  with  our 
Pacific neighbours to do the same. We have committed 
$1  billion  in  development  assistance  to  the  Pacific, 
focused  on,  among  other  things,  helping  support 
sustainable  fisheries  management.  Our  aid  is  focused 
on our region and in areas where we know we can get 
real results for real people, improving livelihoods and 
creating opportunities. Many Governments around the 
world are doing the same, and we are proud to play our 
part.
As  I  prepare  to  leave  New  York,  I  do  so  proud 
of  the  contribution  that  New  Zealand  has  made  to 
the  sustainable  development  of  our  oceans.  I  leave 
proud  of  the  contribution  New  Zealand  is  making 
on  the  Security  Council  and  proud  of  the  values  and 
principles that underpin the country I lead. I also leave 
dispirited by the Security Council’s failure to help not 
only  the  people  of  Syria,  but  those  in  so  many  other 
countries. The collective effort of the Security Council, 
supported  by  the  broader  membership,  could  make  a 
real difference.
I think all of us who have been here over the past 
week know that collective action must start somewhere. 
It should start at the United Nations.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of New Zealand for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr. John Key, Prime Minister of New Zealand, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Rui Maria de Araújo, 
Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic 
of Timor-Leste
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Democratic 
Republic of Timor-Leste.
Mr.  Rui  Maria  de  Araújo,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Rui  Maria  de  Araújo,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Timor-Leste, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Araújo  (Timor-Leste)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 
interpretation provided by the delegation): It is with the 
utmost pleasure that I address the Organization today. 
It  is  a  privilege  for  me  to  take  the  floor  for  the  first 
time  in  the  General  Assembly,  particularly  because 
the Member States have come together to celebrate the 
Organization’s seventieth anniversary.
This  is  undoubtedly  a  historic  moment  in  the  life 
of  the  United  Nations,  when  we  can  celebrate  and 
honestly  reflect  on  the  principles  and  spirit  that  led 
to  the  establishment  of  the  Organization,  as  well  as 
the failures and successes of the past 70 years. Those 
failures  and  successes  are  intimately  associated  with 
various  world  events,  including  the  establishment  of 
the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, whose status 
as a sovereign State was internationally recognized on 
20 May 2002.
Nonetheless,  the  world  has  changed  dramatically 
since the Charter of the United Nations was signed seven 
decades  ago,  in  1945.  Today,  we  are  an  Organization 
with 193 Member States, many of which were formed 
after  the  end  of  the  Second  World  War.  The  world  in 
the twenty-first century is marked by a combination of 
complexities,  challenges  and  different  opportunities 
18/25 
15-29664
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.23
that require coordinated actions by the States. While in 
the 1940s we already had the audacity to proclaim that 
no country is an island, that adage is even more relevant 
in our own century with the advances in communication 
and transportation technologies that transform our world 
into a global village in which distance and location are 
no  longer  impediments  to  interaction  among  peoples 
and States. It requires from us a stronger commitment 
to understanding and cooperation as a means to better 
capitalize on the potential and to minimize the adverse 
risks of that new reality.
Our commitment to the principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations and the multilateral system therefore 
constitutes an indispensable element in the interactions 
of humankind in our century. Today, using the words 
of  the  Preamble  to  the  Charter,  we  must  repeat  our 
undertaking “to save succeeding generations from the 
scourge  of  war”  and  “reaffirm  faith  in  fundamental 
human rights” with dignity and equality for all. We must 
strengthen our commitment to “justice and respect for 
the obligations arising from treaties and other sources 
of international law” and to “social progress and better 
standards of life in larger freedom”.
Those  ideals  are  the  pillars  of  the  Organization 
and have guided its work since its foundation, but we 
must  acknowledge  that  we  have  yet  to  respond  to  the 
aspirations  of  all  peoples  in  all  nations  of  the  world. 
Now  is  an  opportune  moment  to  renew  our  efforts 
towards  fulfilling  those  principles.  To  that  end,  the 
United  Nations  needs  a  reform  that  will  allow  it  to 
take  up  the  challenges  that  have  emerged  in  the  new 
circumstances of our century. Reforming the Security 
Council is one change that has been suggested, with a 
view  to  making  the  Council  more  representative  and 
balanced. Improving the system is the only way for us 
to be prepared for the long journey ahead and for us to 
honour  and  fulfil  the  promise  of  peace,  security  and 
human rights for all.
At  the  United  Nations  sustainable  development 
Summit  a  few  days  ago,  from  25  to  27  September, 
we all met to launch the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1).  Through  the  changes 
outlined  on  the  new  Agenda,  we  have  redefined  the 
pillar  of  development  for  the  United  Nations  and  set 
the planet on the path to sustainable development. The 
dynamic of change must now focus on the other pillars 
of  the  Organization,  which  are  peace,  security  and 
human rights.
The  United  Nations  was  born  out  of  the  need  for 
States to develop closer relations and work together in a 
world dismayed and marked by war. Yet, conflicts and 
violence continue to ravage the world, and millions of 
people  continue  to  be  forced  to  abandon  their  homes 
and  countries.  We  currently  have  the  largest  number 
of refugees since the Second World War, and estimates 
indicate  that  the  number  will  increase.  In  addition 
to  those  refugees,  there  are  many  other  people  who 
migrate in search of better opportunities.
We  are  seeing  thousands  of  people  arriving  in 
Europe every day, trying to escape threats to their lives, 
which they face in the conflict zones in Syria, Iraq and 
Afghanistan, among several other countries. It is crucial 
that we bear in mind that we must provide those who are 
forced to flee persecution and armed conflict with the 
protection to which they are entitled under international 
law. We cannot forget that crises, wherever they crop 
up, can drag on and spread indiscriminately, affecting 
economies, social life, peace and stability in particular 
regions and in the world. Notwithstanding the progress 
achieved since the establishment of the United Nations 
in 1945, we must acknowledge that there remains much 
to do and fulfil. Conflicts and crises persist in Africa, 
the Middle East, Asia, Europe and the Americas. The 
Saharans, Palestinians and many other peoples continue 
to be denied their fundamental rights.
is  disagreement, 
leaders  must 
recognize  that  dialogue  is  a  means  to  an  end.  Timor-
Leste  is  particularly  pleased  that  the  United  States  of 
America and the Republic of Cuba have re-established 
diplomatic  relations.  It  congratulates  them  and  hopes 
that a frank and open dialogue will quickly lead to the 
removal  of  impediments  to  economic,  financial  and 
trade relations.
When 
there 
New  and  different  threats  to  peace,  security  and 
human  rights  have  emerged  since  the  creation  of  the 
United  Nations.  Terrorism,  organized  crime  and 
extreme  violence  are  new  obstacles  to  international 
peace  and  security.  The  United  Nations  and  the 
international  community  must  adapt  to  those  new 
threats in order to ensure a process to build peace and 
to build an inclusive, responsible and transparent State 
with a view to achieving lasting peace.
Another  challenge,  which  may  not  appear  as 
consistently  in  the  mass  media  but  which  affects 
us  equally,  is  climate  change,  and  the  international 
community is approaching a moment of decision in that 
15-29664
19/25
A/70/PV.23 
01/10/2015
regard. The discussions that will take place at the end 
of the year at the twenty-first session of the Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  to  be  held  in  Paris, 
must produce universal, ambitious and legally binding 
results. It is time to act with respect to climate change. 
The whole world is advancing towards a consensus that 
recognizes  the  urgency  of  combating  climate  change, 
including  citizens,  civil  society  and  religious  leaders, 
as  seen  in  the  message  of  His  Holiness  Pope  Francis 
(see A/70/PV.3) and the declaration by Muslim leaders, 
which underscore our moral duty to protect those who 
are most vulnerable and to care for the planet we inhabit.
We also know that the impacts of climate change are 
even  more  pronounced  in  the  developing  small  island 
States, which are on the front lines of the struggle. Our 
neighbouring islands in the Pacific have been assailed 
by the same storms and by an increase in the number 
of natural disasters, which are compounded, as if that 
were  not  enough,  by  soil  erosion  and  the  rise  of  sea 
levels.
Timor-Leste has been a part of the community of 
nations for 13 years and is ready to roll up its sleeves, 
leverage  its  national  experience  and  contribute  to  the 
international  community.  We  are  a  young  nation,  but 
that has never been nor will it ever be a reason for us to 
ignore the events and realities of the world we share. We 
officially announce our desire to join the Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  boost  progress  in  fragile 
States  through  the  Group  of  Seven  Plus  and  accede 
to  the  international  mechanisms  for  the  promotion  of 
peace, democracy, justice and human rights.
We  have  been  serving  in  the  presidency  pro 
tempore  of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-Speaking 
Countries since 2014. We wish to instil a new dynamic 
in that Community of sister nations and bring it to the 
forefront  of  economic  globalization,  with  investment 
opportunities that could improve the living conditions 
of  our  peoples  and  contribute  to  the  development, 
peace,  and  stability  of  the  peoples  of  the  world.  We 
have had the opportunity to share our experience with 
other brotherly countries and peoples, such as Guinea-
Bissau, Sao Tome et Principe, and the Central African 
Republic.
Timor-Leste’s  participation  on 
the  stage  of 
international  politics  reflects  our  conviction  as  to 
the  importance  of  solidarity,  mutual  respect,  and 
cooperation for a better world. We have also undergone 
a Government transition recently. After many years at 
that  Timor-Leste 
the  helm  of  the  country,  our  outstanding  leaders  and 
former  Presidents  of  the  Republic,  Xanana  Gusmão 
and  José  Ramos-Horta,  who  are  present  here  today, 
understood 
lacked  a  model  of 
inclusive  democracy.  That  type  of  democracy,  which 
gave rise to the sixth constitutional Government, which 
is currently in office, was achieved peacefully and with 
dignity.  The  Government  that  I  am  honoured  to  lead 
is committed to preserving the peace and stability that 
has been achieved. It is also committed to continuing 
the  efforts  of  previous  Governments  to  foster  growth 
and development in our country and the well-being of 
our people.
However,  the  road  ahead  for  the  Timorese  is  still 
long and arduous. In addition to building our institutions 
and  promoting  sustainable  development,  the  national 
consensus in Timor-Leste is that we must work to fully 
assert our national sovereignty under international law 
and  standards.  That  full  assertion  of  our  sovereignty 
includes the demarcation of our maritime borders with 
our  two  great  neighbours,  Indonesia  and  Australia. 
As  a  matter  of  principle,  Timor-Leste  has  opted  for 
negotiations  in  accordance  with  international  law 
and  standards  and,  when  dialogue  fails  to  resolve 
disagreements,  our  country  has  chosen 
to  use 
international conflict-resolution mechanisms.
Though  small,  Timor-Leste  has  also  helped  other 
nations in their development efforts. The recent report of 
the High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations 
(see A/70/95), chaired by former President José Ramos-
Horta,  proposed  fundamental  shifts  for  the  future  of 
peace operations, which will have an impact on the lives 
of thousands of people. The four major shifts proposed 
by  the  Panel  would  help  to  enhance  the  credibility, 
relevance  and  legitimacy  of  the  United  Nations,  thus 
making  it  more  effective  in  preventing  and  resolving 
conflicts,  and  in  peacemaking  and  peacekeeping,  so 
that people can live in security and freedom.
Over  the  past  three  years,  we  have  witnessed 
an  unprecedented  effort  on  the  part  of  the  States 
Members of the United Nations, and the international 
community  in  general,  to  redefine  our  approach 
to  sustainable  development.  The  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) embodies a 
remarkable balance of interests and priorities in its set 
of  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs),  which  are 
profoundly interlinked and indivisible. Timor-Leste is 
particularly pleased with the inclusion of Goal 16, which 
strengthens the essential elements of peace, justice, and 
20/25 
15-29664
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.23
institutions.  We  know  from  our  own  experience  that 
those elements are crucial to our joint commitment not 
to leave anyone behind on our path towards sustainable 
development. Goal 16 is the basis for a truly inclusive 
Agenda  and,  together  with  Goals  5  and  17,  serves  as 
the cornerstone for achieving the other Goals. Timor-
Leste is committed to working with other countries and 
development partners and sharing what little we have to 
implement those Goals and the other SDGs.
As  we  commemorate  the  seventieth  anniversary 
of  the  United  Nations,  I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
51  founding  leaders  who  created  the  Organization  in 
1945.  The  United  Nations  represented  peace,  security 
and cooperation then, and continues to do so now. On 
this auspicious occasion, Solomon Islands reaffirms its 
faith  in  and  commitment  to  the  Organization  and  its 
Charter.  Having  said  that,  much  has  happened  since 
1945, and the world has changed over time.
In conclusion, I wish to thank the United Nations, 
its  Secretary-General,  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly and all States Members of the United Nations 
here  present,  as  well  as  all  the  sectors  of  society  that 
supported  us  in  our  struggle  for  liberation  until  we 
were recognized as a sovereign State. It is with humility 
that  we  once  again  express  our  profound  gratitude 
and  declare  our  commitment  to  being  a  part  of  this 
great  team  of  nations  that  fights  tirelessly  for  a  more 
prosperous,  just,  and  peaceful  world.  We  believe  that 
nations,  when  united,  are  much  stronger  and  produce 
better results.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Democratic 
Republic of Timor-Leste for the statement he has just 
made. 
Mr.  Rui  Maria  de  Araújo,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, was escorted 
from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Manasseh Sogavare, Prime 
Minister of Solomon Islands
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of Solomon Islands.
Mr.  Manasseh  Sogavare,  Prime  Minister  of 
Solomon Islands, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Manasseh Sogavare, Prime Minister 
of  Solomon  Islands,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
Mr. Sogavare (Solomon Islands): The Government 
and  people  of  Solomon  Islands  join  me  in  conveying 
our warm greetings to the General Assembly. I extend 
to you, Mr. President, our felicitations on your election 
to preside over the General Assembly at its seventieth 
session and assure you of Solomon Islands’ support and 
cooperation during your term in office.
Solomon  Islands  is  part  of  the  historic  journey 
of  the  United  Nations.  When  we  first  joined  the 
Organization  in  1978,  there  were  only  145  members. 
Today,  membership  has  increased  to  193.  At  present, 
more  than  two  thirds  of  the  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  are  from  the  developing  world  and  are  all 
seeking  a  fair,  equitable  and  rules-based  multilateral 
system. That is a sentiment that is echoed in this Hall 
every year. As long as wealth continues to reside with 
20 per cent of the world’s population, a global system 
manifesting such a divide will always face challenges 
in attempting to respond meaningfully to our collective 
agenda,  even  though  it  recognizes  the  fairness  and 
equity that we all desire.
The number of conflicts that the United Nations deals 
with has also multiplied. We now have 16 peacekeeping 
missions.  That  has  meant  that,  multilaterally,  we  are 
spending more on security than on development issues. 
We need to reverse that trend by striving to invest more 
in  peace  through  strategies  and  programmes  and  less 
on  military  solutions  and  by  addressing  security  and 
sustainable development. Where there are situations of 
potential conflict, we need to work with all Governments 
concerned through an inclusive mechanism that avoids 
unilateral decisions, which always result in protracted 
conflicts  and  strife  and  cause  immense  suffering  to 
the people who are supposed to be the beneficiaries of 
peacebuilding efforts.
In that regard, the United Nations, on the occasion 
of  its  seventieth  anniversary,  must  demonstrate  its 
commitment to greater action. Our appreciation goes to 
the former President of the General Assembly, Mr. Sam 
Kutesa, for his strong leadership in guiding the historic 
development  framework,  entitled  “Transforming  our 
world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” 
(resolution  70/1),  which  the  Assembly  adopted  last 
week.
For  developing  countries,  what  is  required  is  to 
translate  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
15-29664
21/25
A/70/PV.23 
01/10/2015
of the new Agenda into action. That can happen only 
if the SDGs are matched with the necessary resources, 
in  accordance  with  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda, 
so  that  the  international  community  can  deliver  the 
necessary  means  of  implementation  and  convert  the 
Goals  into  action.  Humankind’s  survival  depends  on 
the world coming together on our shared 2030 Agenda. 
It offers us a last hope of getting it right. Incremental 
action is not an option. Transformative change comes 
about  only  if  we  think  big,  smart  and  innovatively  to 
achieve the 17 global SDGs and the 169 targets. It has 
to  be  driven  by  a  new  form  of  partnership,  anchored 
in a new spirit of solidarity, fostered by new political 
relationships  and  a  paradigm  shift  in  international 
cooperation — one that guarantees prosperity for all.
its  appreciation 
to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for 
the  sterling 
leadership that he has provided the Organization with 
over the past nine years. We join the Secretary-General 
and the General Assembly in the call for a more open 
process  in  the  selection  of  a  new  Secretary-General, 
who  is  due  in  office  by  January  2017.  Over  the  past 
seven  decades,  the  permanent  five  members  of  the 
Security Council have selected the previous Secretaries-
General.  We  call  for  a  more  accountable,  democratic 
and  transparent  process  for  such  appointments.  To 
that  end,  the  Assembly,  as  the  chief  deliberative  and 
most  democratic  and  representative  organ  of  our 
Organization, must play a central role in the selection 
process.
Solomon  Islands  registers 
Solomon  Islands  reiterates  its  interest  in  serving 
in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions.  We  have  a 
well-trained police force that is ready, willing and able 
to  serve  alongside  other  United  Nations  officers.  Our 
Royal Solomon Islands Police Force has a programme 
in place to achieve that goal. We intend to see our first 
team  of  officers  out  in  the  field  during  the  current 
session of the General Assembly.
Islands 
remains 
Solomon 
under-represented 
among  the  United  Nations  Secretariat  staff.  I  am 
pleased  to  note  that  the  United  Nations  is  organizing 
competitive recruitment exams in our country this year. 
We are grateful for that outreach and look forward to 
filling our quota, while enriching the diversity of the 
Secretariat.  On  the  United  Nations  country  presence, 
Solomon  Islands  welcomed  resolution  69/318,  calling 
for  an  enhanced  United  Nations  country  presence  in 
the  Pacific  region,  particularly  at  the  country  level. 
We welcome new thinking with regard to establishing 
subregional offices within the Pacific region, noting the 
distance and the diverse and peculiar characteristics of 
the  region.  In  that  regard,  Solomon  Islands  offers  to 
host one of the subregional centres.
The  democratic  coalition-for-change  Government 
that I lead was formed following last year’s successful 
national  general  election  using  a  biometric  voter 
registration  system  for  the  first  time.  We  are  pleased 
with  the  system  and  will  be  building  on  its  success, 
along  with  other  electoral  reforms.  I 
thank  all 
partners,  including  the  United  Nations,  Australia  and 
the  European  Union,  for  supporting  our  biometric 
registration system, and we seek partnerships to invest 
in  the  next  phase  of  strengthening  our  democratic 
institution.
The  review  of  our  Political  Parties  Integrity 
Act  is  a  priority  that  my  Government  is  working  on 
to  further  strengthen  political  stability  in  Solomon 
Islands.  Likewise,  my  Government  has  launched  an 
ambitious governance-reform programme that includes 
the  enactment  of  anti-corruption  and  whistle-blowers 
legislation and the establishment of an anti-corruption 
commission. Similarly, my Government will introduce 
legislation  to  establish  growth  centres  and  industrial 
zones in the rural sector for the purpose of redistributing 
economic  and  social  opportunities  to  the  broader 
community.
At  the  regional  level,  Solomon  Islands  greatly 
appreciates  its  partnership  with  the  Australian-led 
Regional  Assistance  Mission 
to  Solomon  Islands 
(RAMSI),  which  includes  the  participation  of  the 
15 members of the Pacific Island Forum. That regional 
cooperation  initiative  has  done  much  in  terms  of  the 
restoration  of  the  rule  of  law  and  the  rehabilitation 
of  mechanisms  of  Government,  particularly  those 
responsible 
the 
maintenance of law and justice. The RAMSI drawdown 
process will end by 30 June 2017. The assistance from 
our regional neighbours is greatly appreciated.
for  peacebuilding  and  ensuring 
Solomon  Islands  assumed  the  chairmanship  of 
the  Melanesian  Spearhead  Group  (MSG)  in  June  this 
year. The Group is made up of Fiji, Papua New Guinea, 
Vanuatu and the Front de libération nationale kanak et 
socialiste  of  the  Territory  of  New  Caledonia  and  my 
own  country,  Solomon  Islands.  The  MSG  countries 
make  up  at  least  95  per  cent  of  the  total  population 
of the Pacific small islands developing States (SIDS). 
The  Melanesian  subregion  is  rich  in  biodiversity,  and 
its  peoples  speak  a  quarter  of  the  world’s  languages. 
22/25 
15-29664
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.23
Solomon  Islands  is  exploring  the  establishment  of 
an  indigenous  biocultural  platform  to  preserve  our 
traditional knowledge and our rich biodiversity.
to 
At the recent MSG Summit, leaders of the Group 
agreed 
foster  more  comprehensive  economic 
cooperation on trade, aviation, fisheries, shipping and 
finance among its members and beyond the subregion. 
The  Group  further  agreed  to  establish  a  regional 
police academy. At the summit, the MSG leaders also 
conferred  associate  membership  on  Indonesia  and 
observer status on the United Liberation Movement for 
West Papua.
Solomon  Islands  calls  for  the  full  and  swift 
implementation of the 1960 Declaration on the Granting 
of Independence to Colonized Countries and Peoples. 
Of interest to the MSG is the question of New Caledonia. 
This year marks 162 years of the French colonization of 
New  Caledonia.  That  territory  is  entering  its  seminal 
phase as it prepares for an act of self-determination in 
2018. It is our fervent hope that the process will succeed 
with  the  full  backing  of  the  French  Government.  We 
wish them well in that historic undertaking.
Having  said  that,  Solomon  Islands  cautiously 
welcomes the fragile consensus reached in addressing 
New  Caledonia’s  electoral  issues  by  the  Special 
Committee  on  the  Noumea  Accord.  We  therefore 
reaffirm the importance of ensuring that the electoral 
process  is  addressed  amicably,  given  that  it  has 
implications  for  establishing  a  credible  referendum 
process  that  conforms  to  and  is  consistent  with 
accepted principles and practice of self-determination 
as  outlined  in  United  Nations  resolutions,  including 
resolutions 1514 (XV) and 1541 (XV).
Solomon Islands welcomed resolution 69/103, which 
reaffirmed the inalienable right of the people of French 
Polynesia to self-determination. Solomon Islands calls 
on the administrative Power to fully cooperate with the 
work of the Special Committee. We note that 30 years 
of nuclear testing by the administrative Power caused 
widespread  atomic  radiation,  which  has  resulted  in 
considerable  health  and  environmental  concerns.  It  is 
a matter that is of concern to us, and we call for more 
attention to be paid to the issue by the Assembly.
Solomon  Islands  reaffirms  that  human  rights 
principles  are  universal,  indivisible,  interrelated  and 
must be treated in a fair manner. All States have a legal 
duty  and  moral  responsibility  to  uphold,  respect  and 
promote  human  rights  and,  where  necessary,  to  take 
preventive,  protective  and  punitive  measures  against 
human  rights  abuses  or  violations,  in  accordance 
with the Charter of the United Nations and applicable 
international laws.
Against  that  backdrop,  the  General  Assembly 
is  well  aware  of  the  continuing  concerns  regarding 
human rights violations in the Papua and West Papua 
regions  of  Indonesia.  Solomon  Islands,  together  with 
the Pacific Islands Forum, is seeking genuine dialogue 
and  cooperation  with  Indonesia  on  that  issue.  The 
outreach is intended to resolve reported allegations of 
human  rights  violations  in  two  of  Indonesia’s  ethnic 
Melanesian  regions,  namely  Papua  and  West  Papua. 
Solomon  Islands  further  calls  on  the  Geneva-based 
Human  Rights  Council  to  do  more  investigating  and 
monitoring  of  the  allegations  of  human  rights  abuses 
against ethnic Melanesians in the concerned regions of 
Indonesia. We would like the issue to be addressed in a 
timely manner.
In that connection, the Pacific Islands Forum, at its 
recent  Leaders’  Summit  held  in  Port  Moresby,  Papua 
New Guinea, approved the deployment of a fact-finding 
mission to West Papua to establish the alleged abuses 
of  human  rights  there.  We  appeal  to  the  Government 
of  Indonesia  to  allow  free  and  unrestricted  access  to 
the mission in the true spirit of regional cooperation. In 
the long term, however, the United Nations cannot shy 
away from the root causes of those violations.
Islands 
to  Solomon 
On  South-South  cooperation,  I  thank  the  Papua 
New Guinea Government for opening their educational 
institutions 
students.  We 
acknowledge Papua New Guinea’s bilateral assistance 
and  substantial  commercial  investments  in  people-to-
people  relations.  Our  Melanesian  relations  remain 
firmly  rooted  in  our  cultural  and  traditional  values, 
which  link  our  people  now  and  into  the  future.  We 
are  forging  similar  economic,  sociocultural  and  trade 
relations with Fiji, Vanuatu and other Pacific countries.
Turning  now  to  Solomon  Islands’s  relations  with 
Cuba,  we  thank  that  fellow  small  island  developing 
State  for  training  more  than  100  Solomon  Islands 
medical  students.  To  date,  44  doctors  have  graduated 
from medical schools in Cuba and are now back in the 
country. I thank Cuba for its solidarity and support to 
Solomon Islands.
Two  months  ago,  Solomon  Islands  joined  the 
international  community  in  celebrating  a  new  era  of 
relations between Cuba and United States of America. 
15-29664
23/25
A/70/PV.23 
01/10/2015
The  restoration  of  relations,  after  54  years,  presents 
a  new  beginning  for  the  United  States  to  reconstruct 
its  relations  with  Cuba,  based  on  mutual  respect  for 
national  sovereignty  and  the  freedom  of  international 
trade and navigation. We welcome President Obama’s 
progressive  easing  of  restrictions  on  Cuba.  However, 
more needs to be done. We call for the total lifting of 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  on 
Cuba,  so  as  to  normalize  relations  between  the  two 
States, which are a mere 90 miles apart.
The  issue  of  climate  change  is  for  Solomon 
Islands,  like  other  small  island  developing  States 
and  least  developed  countries  (LDCs),  an  existential 
concern.  It  impacts  everyone,  but  the  poorest  and 
marginalized  populations  often  bear 
the  greatest 
burden. It is imperative that the upcoming twenty-first 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
to be held in Paris in December, deliver an ambitious, 
comprehensive  and  robust  climate-change  agreement 
that is inclusive and leaves no one behind.
As ocean acidification increases, Solomon Islands 
tourism, fisheries and the livelihood of 85 per cent of 
our population have been put at risk. Sea-level rise has 
already led to land inundation, the loss of biodiversity, 
threats  to  food  security  and  the  resulting  relocation 
of  populations  from  low-lying  islands  to  other  parts 
of  the  country.  Solomon  Islands  will  be  relocating  its 
National Referral Hospital from its coastal location in 
Honiara, given the frequency and intensity of disasters 
threatening the entire infrastructure system.
In the past year, flash floods wiped out more than 
9 per cent of Solomon Islands’s gross domestic product. 
In 2015, we were hit by two cyclones, Chan-Hom and 
Raquel.  Solomon  Islands  welcomes  the  participation 
of  new  development  partners,  namely,  the  United 
Arab  Emirates  and  Kuwait,  for  their  humanitarian 
assistance to our people this year. We very much thank 
them.  Coming  from  a  disaster-prone  region,  we  look 
forward to the World Humanitarian Summit, which is 
to be held in Istanbul next year. We hope the world will 
come together and create a new playing field to build 
a resilient and environmentally responsible community 
operating within safe limits for the planet.
Cognizant  of  the  fact  that  success  is  founded 
on  partnerships,  the  Solomon  Islands  Government 
is  seeking  deepened,  expanded  and  results-oriented 
partnerships  in  the  areas  of  economic  infrastructure, 
hydroelectric  and  geothermal  energy,  agriculture, 
forestry  and  fisheries  so  as  to  kick-start  sustainable 
development  for  our  rural  population  in  accordance 
with the SDGs.
The leaders of the Pacific small island developing 
States  at  the  Pacific  Islands  Development  Forum 
Leaders’  Summit,  held  in  September  in  Suva,  Fiji, 
issued  the  Suva  Declaration  on  Climate  Change, 
calling  for  the  coming  Paris  agreement  to  be  legally 
binding, with a call for the global average temperature 
increase limit to be well below 1.5°C. The Declaration 
further calls for loss and damage to be anchored as a 
stand-alone  chapter  in  the  agreement,  and  for  strong 
mitigation commitments in the agreement that must be 
espoused.
It is not far from reality to say that SIDS and LDCs, 
such  as  Solomon  Islands,  are  the  front-line  States 
when  it  comes  to  bearing  the  brunt  of  the  negative 
impacts  of  existential  issues  such  as  climate  change. 
We are concerned that the slow progress in the climate 
negotiations  will  cause  uncertainties  and  possibilities 
for  a  climate-change-induced  situation  that  could 
trigger  conflicts.  That  uncertainty  prompts  Solomon 
Islands  to  seek  a  seat  in  the  Security  Council  for  the 
period 2031-2032, which will be one year after we have 
completed and taken stock of the 2030 Agenda.
Solomon  Islands  supports  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  and  calls  for  a  SIDS-dedicated  seat  in  an 
expanded  Security  Council.  That  is  needed  in  order 
to  ensure  that  SIDS  security  issues  are  meaningfully 
addressed  in  the  Council.  The  Council  will  need  to 
adapt to the ever-changing realities that we face in our 
world. We are pleased with the progress achieved in the 
negotiations on reforming the Council thus far.
On 
the 
issue  of  gender,  Solomon 
Islands’s 
three-year  term  on  the  UN-Women  Executive  Board 
comes to an end this year. We leave the Board with our 
Strategic Plan 2014-2017. Unfortunately, UN-Women’s 
work  programme  remains  underresourced,  and  we 
therefore call on Member States to support that work. 
The  20-year-old  Beijing  Declaration  and  Platform  for 
Action  remains  a  source  of  guidance  and  inspiration 
on gender equality and gender empowerment. Solomon 
Islands  remains  committed  to  the  full,  effective  and 
accelerated  implementation  of  the  Platform,  which 
should  enable  the  realization  of  the  gender-related 
Goals and targets under the SDGs.
In 2009, Solomon Islands, as an archipelagic State, 
lodged  four  continental  shelf  claims  with  the  United 
24/25 
15-29664
01/10/2015 
A/70/PV.23
Nations Commission on the Limits of the Continental 
Shelf.  One  of  those  claims  is  a  joint  submission  with 
the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia  and  Papua  New 
Guinea  on  the  Ontong  Java  Plateau.  That  submission 
is  currently  being  examined  by  a  United  Nations 
subcommission of the Commission on the Limits of the 
Continental Shelf. The next session between the States 
and the subcommission is scheduled for this month, and 
we hope that negotiations will bring about an amicable 
solution for all parties concerned.
The  Solomon  Islands  has  benefited  from  the 
Republic  of  China  or  Taiwan’s  partnership  with  us 
on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  and  we  will 
enhance  our  bilateral  cooperation  with  the  Republic 
of  China  on  Taiwan  under  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1).  The 
Sustainable Development Goals are universal in nature, 
and we expect our friend and partner to join the world 
in helping to eradicate poverty and to heal the declining 
health of our planet.
Solomon Islands, as a close friend of the Republic 
of  China/Taiwan,  continues  to  call  for  the  Republic 
of China on Taiwan’s meaningful participation in our 
United  Nations  specialized  bodies.  The  Republic  of 
China  on  Taiwan  continues  to  take  on  international 
obligations with regard to climate change and aviation. 
The Republic of China on Taiwan, which is among the 
largest economies in the world, needs to be part of the 
global solution in the various international frameworks.
The international community must welcome the interest 
of  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  in  participating 
fully as equals in the proceedings of the International 
Civil  Aviation  Organization  and  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change.
In  closing,  I  would  like  to  state  that  the  Solomon 
supports  multilateralism  with  continued 
Islands 
integrity,  courage  and  strength,  which  will  give  our 
people  a  message  of  hope,  optimism  and  a  positive 
future.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Solomon Islands 
for the statement he had just made.
Mr.  Manasseh  Sogavare,  Prime  Minister  of 
Solomon Islands, was escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
15-29664
25/25
