United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
39th plenary meeting
Monday, 26 October 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.39
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  González 
Franco (Paraguay), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Tribute to the memory of His Excellency 
Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, President of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session
The  Acting  President:  Before  we  proceed  to 
consider the item on our agenda for this afternoon, it is 
my sad duty to inform members of the Assembly of the 
passing  away,  on  19  October  2015,  of  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session.
On behalf of the General Assembly, I should like 
to convey our deepest condolences to the Government 
and the people of Libya and to the family of Mr. Treki.
I now invite representatives to stand and observe a 
minute of silence in tribute to the memory of Mr. Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki,  former  President  of  the  General 
Assembly.
The members of the General Assembly observed a 
minute of silence.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the representative of Sierra Leone, who will speak on 
behalf of the Group of African States.
Mr.  Minah  (Sierra  Leone):  As  we  gather  in 
remembrance  of  a  departed  African  statesman,  some 
of us are with an especially heavy heart. The African 
Group is particularly inspired by his years of service, 
as reflected in his trail of public service, both national 
and international, here at the United Nations and in his 
country of origin. We note his service as the Permanent 
Representative  of  his  country  to  the  United  Nations, 
as  Chair  of  the  Special  Political  and  Decolonization 
Committee (Fourth Committee) and as Vice-President 
of the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh session. 
His work here at the United Nations culminated in his 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-fourth session, in 2009.
On my personal behalf and on behalf of the African 
Group, I wish to extend our deepest condolences to the 
people  of  Libya  and  to  the  family  of  the  late  Mr.  Ali 
Treki  for  their  great  loss,  and  we  encourage  them  as 
a  group  to  find  solace  in  his  legacy  of  national  and 
international service.
Some  of  us  here  at  the  United  Nations  recall  his 
powerful  acceptance  speech  (see  A/64/PV.1)  on  his 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  In  that  speech  he  pointed 
out quite clearly that, while the Second World War had 
given victory to certain States and while the Charter of 
the United Nations had allowed those victorious States 
certain rights not accorded to the general membership, 
the  world  had  changed  since  then.  It  was  therefore 
no  longer  possible  for  the  United  Nations,  with  a 
membership of more than 190 countries, to remain the 
Organization it had been when it had only 50 Members. 
Those  are  words  to  bear  in  mind  as  we  address  the 
questions of the revitalization of the General Assembly 
and the reform of the Security Council. He has left us 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-33386 (E)
*1533386*
A/70/PV.39 
26/10/2015
a legacy to build upon as we continue to advocate for a 
reformed United Nations.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Cambodia, who will speak on behalf 
of the Group of Asia-Pacific States.
Mr.  Tuy  (Cambodia):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like, 
as Chair of the Group of Asia-Pacific States, to extend 
our deepest condolences to the bereaved family of the 
late Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, former President of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session.
Ambassador  Treki  was  a  man  of  deep  knowledge 
and a veteran in the field of diplomacy and international 
relations. He was Libya’s Foreign Minister from 1977 
to  1980  and  served  several  times  as  his  country’s 
Permanent  Representative  to  the  United  Nations.  In 
1982,  he  served  as  one  of  the  Vice-Presidents  of  the 
General Assembly at its thirty-seventh session and later 
presided over the Fourth Committee. During his tenure 
as Libya’s Secretary of African Union Affairs, he played 
a significant role in the creation of the African Union.
Ambassador  Treki’s  candidacy  to  the  presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session 
was  supported  by  53  African  nations.  When  he 
assumed  office,  on  15  September  2009,  it  was  a  very 
busy  year.  It  was  a  time  when  the  world  was  facing 
a  number  of  challenges  ranging  from  economic 
and  food  security  crises,  political  instability,  issues 
concerning the protection of human rights, as well as 
those  related  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and global health. It was during his presidency that the 
Assembly consolidated the four bodies working for the 
advancement of women into a single new entity, which 
is UN-Women today.
Let us remember Ambassador Treki’s first speech 
(see  A/64/PV.1)  upon  assuming  the  presidency  of 
the  General  Assembly.  President  Treki  referred  to 
his  determination  to  put  an  end  to  wars  and  to  their 
causes and consequences. He stated that dialogue and 
mutual understanding paved the way towards resolving 
our  problems,  and  that  embargoes  and  blockades 
were  fruitless.  He  also  said  that  embargoes  and 
blockades exacerbated antagonism and rebellion, while 
undermining respect for the international community. 
We believe that the Ambassador’s words still resonate 
today, as dialogue and mutual understanding are indeed 
some  of  the  best  ways  to  resolve  the  conflicts  of  the 
world.
Ambassador  Treki’s  passing  away  is  felt  not  only 
by the African States, but by many Member States of 
the United Nations. As such, I would like to conclude 
my brief statement by once again conveying the deepest 
condolences of the Asia-Pacific States. Our prayers go 
to the bereaved family members of the late Ali Treki. 
May his soul rest in peace.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Slovakia, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Eastern European States.
Mr. Galbavý (Slovakia): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the Group of Eastern European States.
It was with a great sense of loss that we received 
the  news  of  the  passing  away  of  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. On behalf of the 
Eastern European States, I would like to express to the 
Government and the people of Libya, as well as to the 
family  of  Mr.  Treki,  our  deepest  sympathy  and  most 
sincere condolences.
President Treki was an experienced diplomat well 
acquainted with United Nations issues, having served 
three times as his country’s Permanent Representative 
to  the  world  Organization.  President  Treki  played  a 
significant  role  in  the  creation  of  the  African  Union 
and  contributed  significantly  to  international  efforts 
to  promote  peace  and  stability,  mediating  several 
conflicts in Africa, Cyprus and the Philippines, as well 
as  in  other  parts  of  the  world,  including  in  countries 
members of our regional group.
President  Treki  was  his  country’s  Secretary  for 
African  Union  Affairs  when  he  became  the  sixty-
fourth President of the General Assembly, in 2009. As 
President of the General Assembly, he is remembered 
for  cultivating  a  spirit  of  cooperation,  consensus-
building, enlightened leadership and dedicated service 
to our Organization. May God rest his soul.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the  representative  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  who  will 
speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States.
Mr. Condor (Saint Kitts and Nevis): On behalf of 
the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States, I 
express  our  condolences  on  the  passing  away  of  His 
Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, President of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session.
2/20 
15-33386
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.39
President  Treki  had  an  extensive  background  in 
diplomacy  and  multilateralism,  including  his  long 
career in the service of his country. He served as Libya’s 
Secretary  for  African  Union  Affairs,  Ambassador  to 
France,  Permanent  Representative  to  the  League  of 
Arab States in Cairo and Minister for Foreign Affairs.
President  Treki  also  served  as  his  country’s 
Permanent Representative to the United Nations three 
times. He presided over the General Assembly’s Fourth 
Committee and represented Libya on the Commission 
on  Human  Rights.  Notably,  Mr.  Treki  was  elected 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session, from 2009 to 2010, the culmination of a career 
dedicated to international relations. During his time as 
President of the General Assembly, Mr. Treki reiterated 
the  call  for  the  Assembly  to  focus  on  three  essential 
elements for its success, namely, support, coordination 
and  innovation.  Those  are  elements  that  we  can  all 
continue to champion as we move forward in attempting 
to strengthen the role of the General Assembly.
President  Treki  will  also  be  remembered  for  his 
dedication  to  the  African  Union,  the  League  of  Arab 
States and the Non-Aligned Movement. His education 
in history and political history prepared him well for his 
service to the international community and the United 
Nations  family.  We  extend  our  sincerest  sympathy  to 
his family, friends and colleagues. The United Nations 
community mourns his passing.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Ireland, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Western European and Other States.
Mr.  Mawe  (Ireland):  On  behalf  of  the  Group 
of  Western  European  and  Other  States,  I  extend  to 
the  people  and  the  Government  of  Libya  our  deepest 
condolences  on  the  death  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki,  former  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session.
President  Treki  is  remembered  for  his  tireless 
work in advancing the ideas of the United Nations as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session. A distinguished Libyan diplomat, he served as 
the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Libya several times 
and  as  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Libya  to  the 
United Nations no fewer than three times. In 2009, after 
a  distinguished  career  in  the  Libyan  Foreign  Service, 
Mr. Treki served as President of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-fourth  session,  and  throughout  his  career 
he consistently sought to promote Libyan cooperation 
with  the  international  community.  The  members  of 
the  Group  of  Western  European  and  Other  States 
express  their  gratitude  for  what  President  Treki  gave 
to  the  United  Nations  and  offer  our  sympathies  and 
condolences to his family. Our thoughts and prayers are 
with them during this difficult time.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative  of  the  United  States  of  America,  who 
will speak on behalf of the host country.
Ms.  Coleman  (United  States  of  America):  I  have 
the  sad  task  today  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  host 
country, the United States, on the loss of our colleague 
and former President of the General Assembly, Mr. Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki.  We  wish  to  convey  our  sincere 
condolences to his family, extended family and friends 
and all the people of Libya, whom he served. As we all 
know, Ambassador Treki was a distinguished diplomat 
and  an  esteemed  member  of  our  community  at  the 
United Nations.
His many posts, including representing Libya at the 
United Nations, serving as Libya’s Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, its Ambassador to France and, most recently, 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth 
session, speak to his distinguished career in the service 
of  his  nation,  his  continent  and  the  broader  global 
community.  Among  his  diplomatic  achievements, 
Ambassador Treki also played a significant role in the 
creation of the African Union and in mediating several 
conflicts  across  Africa  and  in  other  regions  of  the 
world.
I  would  like  to  reiterate,  on  behalf  of  the  United 
States, our deep regret for the loss of a husband and a 
father, as well as a colleague and a friend.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Libya.
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, allow me to thank you, Sir, and the representatives 
of the regional groups and the representative of the host 
country for the heartfelt condolences expressed today 
and  extended  to  the  bereaved  family  members  and 
friends of our countryman, the late Mr. Ali Abdussalam 
Treki. We would also like to thank all those who have 
extended  their  condolences  to  the  Libyan  Permanent 
Mission to the United Nations, whether through letters 
or phone calls. Naturally, we would also like to thank 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  and  we  would  like 
15-33386
3/20
A/70/PV.39 
26/10/2015
to  inform  the  Assembly  that  all  condolences  will  be 
forwarded to the bereaved family of the deceased.
Allow  me  to  personally  extend  my  sympathy  to 
the  wife  of  Mr.  Treki,  to  his  children,  his  family  and 
indeed all of his friends. We are greatly saddened by his 
absence, and we pray to God that He accepts him and 
that He bestows mercy upon him.
Mr.  Treki  enjoyed  a  long  career,  which  spanned 
more  than  40  years.  He  held  a  number  of  positions 
and  posts,  including  serving  at  the  head  of  Libya’s 
diplomatic  service,  namely,  as  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs.  He  also  represented  the  African  Union  and 
was secretary of the League of Arab States. He served 
three times as the Permanent Representative of Libya 
to the United Nations in New York, and he was also the 
Ambassador of Libya to France and Libya’s permanent 
representative to the League of Arab States in Cairo.
In  addition,  Mr.  Treki  chaired 
the  Fourth 
Committee of the General Assembly in 1983, at a time 
when  a  number  of  States  were  still  under  the  yoke 
of  apartheid  and  colonialism.  He  was  also  one  of  the 
Vice-Presidents of the General Assembly at its thirty-
seventh session, in 1982, and was elected President of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session, for the 
period 2009-2010. Mr. Treki always strove to strengthen 
and  bolster  joint  Arab  and  African  diplomacy.  He 
always  served  international  peace  and  security.  He 
played a major role in creating the African Union and 
contributed directly to mediation efforts in a number of 
conflicts, both within States and between States, such 
as conflicts in Africa, in the Sudan, in Chad, between 
Ethiopia and Eritrea, between Djibouti and Eritrea, as 
well as in other regions of the world, such as Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, Cyprus, the Philippines and that between 
Iraq and Iran.
Mr.  Ali  Treki,  as  head  of  Libyan  diplomacy, 
worked  in  very  difficult  conditions,  but  always  in  a 
highly  professional  manner,  displaying  exemplary 
patience,  because  he  had  to  deal  with  the  whims  and 
changing moods of the dictator at the head of Libya and 
was also forced to manage the situation, the reality of 
international  relations  and,  at  the  same  time,  protect 
Libya’s  interests.  He  was  able  to  ensure  that  Libyan 
diplomacy  and  good  standing  were  preserved.  Of 
course, he always worked to further Libya’s interests. 
Libya today pays tribute to one of the greatest symbols 
of its diplomacy.
All those who knew Mr. Ali Treki will remember 
him  as  an  outstanding  statesman,  a  patriot,  one  who 
was very jealous of the prerogatives of his country, who 
always fought for the rights of his country and Africa, 
a man of peace who worked for peace, security and  the 
well-being of humankind as a whole.
Agenda item 12
Sport for development and peace: building a 
peaceful and better world through sport and the 
Olympic ideal
Draft resolution (A/70/L.3)
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative  of  Brazil  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/70.L.3.
Mr.  Nuzman  (Brazil):  It  is  a  privilege  as  an 
Olympian and President of the Organizing Committee 
for the Rio 2016 Olympic Paralympic Games to address 
the  General  Assembly  and  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/70/L.3,  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful  and  better 
world through sport and the Olympic ideal”.
I come to this house of dialogue to talk about truce, 
the  Olympic  Truce.  That  is  the  greatest  honour  of  all 
in  this  temple  of  consensus,  where  the  Olympic  flag 
is  raised  with  the  goal  of  embracing  diversity.  Our 
mission is to organize the Olympic Games, and through 
that  effort  to  create  a  better  world  for  the  coming 
generations, to help them to see life through sport and 
to see sport as a way for all of us to build a fairer society 
in a healthier planet.
Sport  brings  a  brighter  future  to  athletes  and  to 
the  wider  athletic  family,  which  includes  doctors, 
coaches, sponsors, teachers, journalists and supporters. 
Six years ago, in Copenhagen, I asked my friends and 
colleagues  at  the  International  Olympic  Committee 
(IOC)  meeting  to  vote  for  Rio  de  Janeiro.  It  opened 
a  gateway  to  180  million  passionate  young  people  in 
South America, embracing a continent of 400 million 
people, and offered exciting new opportunities for the 
Olympic movement.
South  America  is  a  new  region  for  the  Olympic 
movement:  we  will  host  the  games  for  the  first  time. 
That is an inspiration. Doors have been opened to other 
regions of the world. Sport could boost solidarity and 
improve  education,  social  inclusion,  understanding, 
peace and hope for generations to come. We are looking 
for a new set of opportunities that will allow the young 
4/20 
15-33386
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.39
to  build  the  future  they  deserve.  The  International 
Olympic Committee supported our dream. The frontiers 
of  the  Olympic  movement  have  expanded.  When  we 
think  about  the  true  meaning  of  the  IOC  agenda  and 
we  see  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  our  IOC 
President  Thomas  Bach  working  together,  we  realize 
that our future is in very good hands. Rio de Janeiro is 
ready to deliver history. The city is being transformed. 
The  legacy  of  the  2016  Games  will  be  tangible  and 
perennial. We are talking about sport as a part of the 
city’s  education  programme  —  a  new  urban  mobility 
system,  multiple  job  opportunities  and  a  sustainable 
drive for the future.
(spoke in French)
The Olympic spirit has had a unique power. It has 
transformed  cities,  regions,  countries  and  the  lives 
of  millions  of  people.  It  has  changed  the  course  of 
history.  We  dream  of  achieving  the  overarching  goal. 
We  dream  of  humankind  advancing  towards  a  fairer, 
more peaceful world with many more opportunities for 
young people. The Olympic Truce should not be only 
a dream. We are here today to promote transformation 
through sport. We ardently desire peace.
(spoke in English)
Peace  is  the  only  fair  future  for  humankind, 
so  our  aim  is  to  create  a  lasting  legacy  of  peace  for 
young people — a message of hope for the future, by 
reinforcing  the  rights  of  the  world’s  boys  and  girls. 
That  message  includes  the  right  to  education,  access 
to  sport,  access  to  health  care,  and  protection  from 
abuse and neglect. I have pointed out that this will be 
key at the Rio 2016 Games, as 50,000 volunteers and 
11  million  young  students,  who  could  potentially  be 
involved in our education programme, will be lending 
their assistance. Those boys and girls are also part of 
the school games organized by the Brazilian Olympic 
Committee  every  year,  with  sport  as  a  framework 
for a better life. We have 284 days until the Olympic 
torch arrives at the Maracana stadium for the opening 
ceremony of the XXXI Olympiad. Today is the perfect 
day for all of us to make an even greater contribution to 
a brighter future for generations to come.
On behalf of Brazil, the city of Rio de Janeiro and the 
Organizing Committee, with its partners and the strong 
support  of  the  federal,  state  and  city  Governments, 
I  would  like  to  thank  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventieth session and ask for its support for the draft 
resolution.
Mr.  Purevsuren  (Mongolia):  It  gives  me  distinct 
pleasure to address the General Assembly today on the 
role of sport and the Olympic ideal in promoting peace 
and development.
By  its  very  nature,  sport  is  about  participation. 
Sport is about inclusion and equality. It stands for human 
values such as respect for the opponent, acceptance of 
binding rules, teamwork and fairness — principles that 
are also embedded in the Charter of the United Nations. 
Sport has the potential to help overcome conflicts, both 
within and between States. It promotes rapprochement, 
bridges  social,  economic  and  cultural  divides,  and 
builds a sense of shared identity. Hence it is important 
to use sport as a tool to promote peace, dialogue and 
reconciliation  in  areas  of  conflict  and  disturbance, 
both  during  and  beyond  the  period  of  international 
sporting  events.  To  that  end,  today  we  will  vote  for 
draft resolution A/70/L.3, sponsored by Brazil as host 
of the XXXI Olympic Games and of the XV Paralympic 
Games, to be held next year.
We commend the work done by the United Nations 
Office on Sport for Development and Peace and other 
relevant agencies in implementing the Olympic Truce 
and  the  Action  Plan  on  Sport.  World  leaders  have 
recognized sport as an important enabler of sustainable 
development,  as  envisaged  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), adopted at 
the historic Summit last month.
Mongolia  welcomes  the  decision  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  designate  6  April  as  the  International 
Day  of  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace.  Sport  is 
deeply rooted in the traditional way of life of Mongols. 
Wrestling,  horse  racing  and  archery  are  the  three 
age-old  competitions  traditionally  used  to  measure 
the courage and strength of nomads. The development 
of sport has therefore been high on the agenda of the 
Government of Mongolia.
Since  2011,  we  have  been 
implementing  a 
comprehensive national programme to promote sports. 
The  programme  seeks  to  promote  public  sports  and 
education  aimed  at  instilling  a  healthy  lifestyle  and 
increasing the longevity of the population, supporting 
sportsmen  and  athletes,  building  sport  and  fitness 
centres  for 
the  general  public,  especially  youth, 
children and people with disabilities, and encouraging 
public-private  partnerships  in  sport  development.  It 
also  envisages,  inter  alia,  strengthening  the  national 
capacity  in  sport  and  the  skills  of  athletes,  so  that 
15-33386
5/20
A/70/PV.39 
26/10/2015
they can perform at a high level in world tournaments. 
We  also  wish  to  expand  the  types  of  sports  in  which 
we  participate  in  the  Olympic  Games  and  other 
international championships.
of conflicts. In particular today, when violent extremism 
is on the rise, the ideal of the Olympic Truce could serve 
as  a  perfect  historical  example  for  reconciliation  and 
peaceful coexistence, even for a short period of time.
Sport  brings  about  new  opportunities 
for 
individuals, communities and States. It expands global 
commitments  to  strengthening  physical,  mental  and 
emotional  health,  social  welfare  and  cohesion,  while 
also promoting team spirit, solidarity and adherence to 
standards  and  the  rules  of  the  game,  and  also  raising 
awareness and increasing the understanding of human 
rights.
We warmly thank Brazil for facilitating this year’s 
draft  resolution  and  wish  that  country  every  success 
for  the  2016  Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games.  We 
particularly  welcome  the  fact  that  this  year’s  draft 
resolution  includes  several  positive  references  to  the 
protection  of  human  rights  and  recognizes  that  sport 
can  be  used  to  promote  human  rights  and  strengthen 
universal respect for them.
Sport  is  important  in  promoting  human  rights 
worldwide  through  the  interactions  that  it  generates 
among people from different backgrounds and cultures. 
Through its universal nature, sport can instil in people 
the values of respect, diversity, tolerance and fairness, 
thereby  serving  as  a  tool  to  combat  all  forms  of 
discrimination.
As  a  candidate  country  for  the  Human  Rights 
Council  in  the  upcoming  elections  to  be  held  in  a 
few  days,  Mongolia  stands  strongly  committed  to  the 
promotion  of  human  rights,  including  through  sport. 
Sport  has  a  unique  power  to  convene,  mobilize  and 
inspire. Let us all therefore use sport to help create a 
healthier, happier and more prosperous world, a world 
where no one is left behind.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr. Whiteley (European Union): I have the honour 
to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) and its 
member States.
Today’s  draft 
resolution  A/70/L.3, 
entitled 
“Building  a  peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport 
and  the  Olympic  ideal”,  highlights  the  indispensable 
interaction  between  peace  and  sport.  The  EU  and  its 
member States remain committed to the values of the 
Olympic ideal and will spare no effort to promote the 
ancient, but always timely, concept of the Olympic Truce 
as an invaluable means towards peace and solidarity.
The  Olympic  Games  have  historically  been 
associated with the ideal of a truce. We consider sport 
an  invaluable  tool  to  encourage  dialogue  and  mutual 
understanding among people of different backgrounds. 
The concept of the Olympic Truce provides us with a 
unique opportunity to achieve a cessation of hostilities, 
even temporarily, and to promote the peaceful resolution 
In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  underline  once  again 
our  commitment  to  support  the  peaceful  resolution 
of conflicts. I wish to use this opportunity to urge all 
Member States to send a message of unity by observing 
the Olympic Truce during the 2016 Olympic Games in 
Rio de Janeiro.
Ms. Picco (Monaco) (spoke in French): Accustomed 
to major international events, the city of Rio de Janeiro 
is on the verge of again hosting another global event, this 
time from 5 to 21 August 2016 for the Olympic Games 
and  from  7  to  18  September  2016  for  the  Paralympic 
Games, which are being organized for the first time in 
a South American country.
The  Principality  of  Monaco  wishes 
to  fully 
associate itself with the commitment to build a peaceful 
and better world through the Olympic ideal. This year, 
we  welcome  draft  resolution  A/70/L.3,  which  we 
co-sponsored  and  which  will  certainly  be  adopted  by 
consensus.
Over 20 years after the inclusion of this item on the 
agenda of our Organization, this meeting is another stage 
in  the  process  of  recognizing  sport  as  an  “important 
enabler  of  sustainable  development”  (resolution  70/1, 
para. 37). We are entirely convinced of the
to 
“contribution  of  sport 
the  realization  of 
development and peace in its promotion of tolerance 
and  respect  and  the  contributions  it  makes  to  the 
empowerment  of  women  and  of  young  people, 
individuals and communities, as well as to health, 
education and social inclusion objectives” (ibid.).
Those  words,  drawn  from  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  rightly  underscore  the  role 
that sport plays at all levels.
Allow me to draw attention to the approach of the 
International  Olympic  Committee  (IOC),  which  has 
6/20 
15-33386
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.39
made  sustainability  the  central  principle  of  its  work. 
In  that  respect,  the  IOC  and  its  various  committees 
work with the host country in the process of preparing 
for the Games and ensure that athletes have adequate 
infrastructure  for  the  competitions,  but  above  all  and 
beyond the Games, they seek to ensure that there will 
be an improvement in the quality of life of the millions 
of inhabitants of Rio de Janeiro. That is reflected in the 
creation of jobs, the provision of training for the host 
city’s inhabitants and the renovation and construction 
of  new  urban  sport  infrastructure,  not  to  mention  the 
participation of women. As the host city of the Olympic 
and  Paralympic  Games,  Rio  de  Janeiro  will  be  at  the 
centre of our planet’s attention next summer. However, 
the heritage of that event will last beyond the intense, 
but fleeting, duration of the Games themselves.
We wish to pay tribute to the IOC and its President 
for the Olympic Agenda 2020, as well as the numerous 
actions that have been taken on the ground, which have 
made  the  IOC  an  essential  partner.  The  strengthened 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  IOC 
would not have developed to its current extent without 
the  confident  and  collective  commitment  of 
the 
Secretary-General and the President of the IOC, which 
is  enshrined  in  a  framework  agreement  that  forges  a 
solid  and  effective  partnership  aimed  at  promoting 
the common ideals and values of the charters of both 
organizations.  I  would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
constant  efforts  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Sport  for 
Peace and Development.
We  note  that  sport’s  intrinsic  values  reflect,  in 
many  ways,  those  of  our  Organization,  and  that  its 
vocabulary  can  easily  be  adapted  to  the  pledge  we 
made  in  September  in  adopting  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  namely,  to  leave  no  one 
behind  in  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals. Similarly, the ideals of the Charter of the United 
Nations — those of the dignity and value of the human 
individual, the equality of the human rights of men and 
women, social progress and tolerance are all reflected 
in sport. The values of sport that are incorporated into 
our  daily  life  enable  us  to  build  a  more  harmonious, 
healthier, calmer and more united society.
Beyond words, how can we realize in practice the 
benefits that sport offers? Sport is the act of transcending 
oneself  to  achieve  fixed  goals  by  focusing  on  one’s 
skills  and  strength.  Sport  also  serves  communities 
by  enhancing  people’s  skills  and  reducing  individual 
failings.  We  will  be  able  to  go  farther  together  in 
overcoming  challenges  than  we  would  be  able  to  as 
unorganized individuals.
At  a  time  when  there  are  70  million  displaced 
persons and refugees around the world, I would like to 
pay tribute to the IOC, which is invested in and working 
towards,  through  the  commitment  of  its  Honorary 
President, the empowerment of those millions of men, 
women  and  children  and  providing  them  a  better  life 
through sport.
The  practice  of  sport  and  the  Olympic  Games 
are  not  only  about  setting  new  records.  Sport  brings 
together  the  peoples  of  the  world  around  three  main 
values,  namely,  excellence,  friendship  and  respect. 
Practising  sports  and  the  Olympic  ideal  are  not  only 
about  winning  a  medal,  but  also  means  participating 
side by side, in a spirit of friendship, in the most notable 
sports  competition  that  exists,  that  is,  the  Olympic 
Games  and  Paralympic  Games.  We  are  therefore 
impatiently  waiting  to  see  the  flags  of  the  United 
Nations and the IOC fly together again above the four 
Olympic  sites  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  which  will  illustrate 
the  full  synergy  between  the  two  organizations.  But 
before that always magical moment when the Olympic 
flame is lit in Rio de Janeiro, the Olympic flame will 
have  travelled  to  500  cities,  including  300  in  Brazil, 
allowing the world to become more familiar with that 
large country. The enthusiasm and hospitality of Rio de 
Janeiro  will  mean  that  we  will  soon  become  familiar 
with the names of Barra da Tijuca, Deodoro, with the 
soccer  temples  of  Maracanã  and  Copacabana,  which 
are globally renowned. We wish Brazil every success 
in Rio de Janeiro.
Mr.  Khiari  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow 
me, at the outset, to pay tribute to the United Nations 
support  of  sports.  I  would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to 
Mr. Wilfried Lemke, Special Adviser to the Secretary-
General on Sport for Development and Peace. I would 
also  like  to  welcome  Mr.  Thomas  Bach,  President  of 
the  International  Olympic  Committee  (IOC),  and  to 
reiterate our support for the efforts of the IOC, which 
seeks  to  promote  peace  and  understanding  among 
peoples through sport and the Olympic ideals, including 
the Olympic Truce.
Sport has played a very important role historically 
in  all  communities.  That  is  why  nations  and  peoples 
have  promoted  sport  as  part  and  parcel  of  their  daily 
lifestyle and as one dimension of society and culture. 
Accordingly, sport has become one of the fundamental 
United  Nations  principles  and  a  human  right  that 
15-33386
7/20
A/70/PV.39 
26/10/2015
deserves  to  be  respected,  applied  and  recognized 
as  a  low-cost  and  high-impact  tool  for  human  aid, 
development and peace, whether in the United Nations, 
in non-governmental organizations or in other agencies. 
Sport  is  not  only  practiced  in  any  given  community, 
but  represents  a  very 
important  and  significant 
investment  in  the  present  and  future,  especially  in 
developing  countries.  Sport  plays  a  very  prominent 
role  in  supporting  social  integration  and  economic 
development.  Given  the  pioneering  role  of  sport  and 
its  impact  on  individuals,  sport  should  be  part  and 
parcel of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution 70/1), adopted during the exceptional United 
Nations  Summit  on  sustainable  development,  because 
the  link  between  sport  and  development  and  peace  is 
growing. That translates into an increasing awareness of 
the importance of sport and its linkage to humankind’s 
aspirations  to  enjoy  its  universal  rights  without  any 
discrimination, thereby according everyone equality of 
opportunity.
In the spirit of using sport as a tool for peace and 
social development, I would like to express the support 
of Tunisia for draft resolution A/70/L.3, which Brazil 
submitted this year. That draft resolution reiterates the 
international  community’s  determination  to  continue 
its  efforts  to  make  sport  a  tool  for  communication, 
reconciliation  and  human  rights.  That  also  promotes 
the importance of the notion that Member States accord 
priority to sports in their national policies as a tool for 
peace, sustainable development, education and health.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Tunisia’s 
support  to  the  IOC,  noting  that  the  Winter  Olympics 
will be held in Pyeongchang, South Korea, in 2018 and 
in  Tokyo  in  2022.  That  will  also  be  an  occasion  for 
promoting the culture of peace and harmony.
Mr.  Okamura  (Japan):  Sport  has  the  power  to 
nurture  dreams  and  bring  people  hope.  Sport  has  the 
power  to  change  the  world,  and  even  the  future  of 
humankind.  High  respect  must  therefore  be  accorded 
to  sport.  In  the  spirit  of  peace,  the  international 
community should once again join together by adopting  
draft resolution A/70/L.3, entitled “Building a peaceful 
and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”, 
which  has  been  adopted  biennially  since  1993.  As 
various United Nations documents indicate, this draft 
resolution  has  become  an  expression  of  humankind’s 
desire  to  build  a  world  based  on  the  rules  of  fair 
competition,  peace,  humanity  and  reconciliation, 
which Japan deeply respects and firmly supports. Japan 
appreciates  the  initiative  and  leadership  of  Brazil, 
which  will  host  the  Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games 
next year and has submitted this year’s draft resolution. 
As  a  co-sponsor,  Japan  strongly  supports  the  draft 
resolution. We firmly believe that next year’s Games, 
to  be  hosted  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  will  realize  the  draft 
resolution’s ideals and objectives.
Japan will host the Olympic and Paralympic Games 
in Tokyo in 2020. It is our great pleasure to set the stage 
for the international community to view the outstanding 
performances of top athletes from all over the world. We 
will also have the privilege of welcoming many diverse 
guests to our country from every corner of the world. 
Japan is determined to do its best to make that occasion 
a great success. Japan wants the Tokyo 2020 Games to 
realize the following three ideals: first, achieving one’s 
personal best; secondly, unity in diversity; and, thirdly, 
connecting to tomorrow.
Achieving one’s personal best means that the Tokyo 
2020 Games aim to deliver events where every athlete 
can realize his or her greatest athletic performance and 
achieve his or her personal best.
Unity in diversity means accepting and respecting 
differences in race, colour, gender, sexual orientation, 
language,  religion,  political  or  other  opinion,  birth, 
level of ability or other status in support of peace, so 
that society can continue to develop and flourish. The 
Tokyo 2020 Games will foster a welcoming environment 
and raise awareness of the concept of unity in diversity 
among the citizens of the world.
Last but not least, there is connecting to tomorrow. 
I recall that half a century ago, the Tokyo 1964 Games 
completely transformed Japan, enhanced the Japanese 
people’s  awareness  of  the  outside  world  and  helped 
bring about the rapid growth of Japan’s economy. We 
hope  the  2020  Games  will  enable  Japan  to  promote 
constructive changes throughout the world and leave a 
positive  legacy  for  future  generations.  In  the  lead-up 
to  2020,  the  Japanese  Government  has  been  steadily 
implementing various programmes under our Sport for 
Tomorrow  Programme,  which  is  targeted  at  reaching 
over  10  million  people  in  more  than  100  countries. 
Specifically,  we  intend  to  concentrate  on  improving 
sport  facilities  and  cooperating  in  sport  curriculums 
and on design and human-resource development.
Japan will continue promoting sport in collaboration 
with the United Nations Office on Sport for Development 
and Peace, other United Nations bodies, Member States 
8/20 
15-33386
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.39
and non-governmental organizations, so that the 2020 
Tokyo Games will inspire people around the world and 
leave positive legacies in Japan and in the world.
Ms. Vraila (Greece): Greece aligns itself with the 
statement delivered a few minutes ago by the observer 
of the European Union. For reasons that should be clear, 
my delegation wishes make some additional remarks in 
its national capacity.
As far back as the eighth century B.C., the ancient 
Olympic  Games  were  meant  to  be  a  force  for  peace 
and  solidarity  among  the  ancient  Greek  city-States, 
which declared a truce starting seven days before the 
beginning and ending seven days after the end of the 
Games.  The  ultimate  goal  was  the  peaceful  conduct 
of the Games by protecting the city from invasion and 
by ordering individuals and State authorities to refrain 
from interfering with the safe passage of the athletes. 
As the historian Thucydides claimed, if States violated 
the truce, their athletes were banned from participating 
in the Games.
The  concept  of  the  Olympic  Truce  was  born  and 
carried  out  for  1,200  years  back  in  antiquity.  Greeks 
saw  the  Games  as  a  chance  to  replace  conflict  with 
friendly  competition.  However, 
the 
Olympic  Truce  was  also  of  great  importance  for  the 
revival of the Olympic Games in the modern era, as an 
invaluable tool to advance international understanding 
and promote world peace.
ideal  of 
the 
In today’s world, the emphasis on Olympic peace has 
become a major feature of modern Olympic ideology. 
The  foundation  of  the  International  Olympic  Truce 
Centre, in whose creation Greece was actively engaged 
along  with  the  International  Olympic  Committee, 
gave  new  dynamism  to  the  pursuit  of  peace.  Most 
importantly,  the  inclusion  of  the  Olympic  Truce  into 
the United Nations framework, through the adoption of 
relevant resolutions, granted a distinct role to the ideal. 
We should bear in mind that, in a world of differences, 
inequalities  and  conflicts,  even  an  agreement  on  a 
temporary truce represents an achievement on the part 
of  the  international  community.  We  feel,  therefore, 
responsible  for  continuing  to  promote  the  Olympic 
Truce, and we will spare no effort to ensure its actual 
implementation.
In 2016, Brazil will host the XXI Olympic Games 
and  the  XV  Paralympic  Games  in  Rio  de  Janeiro.  I 
seize this opportunity to wish Brazil every success in 
that demanding endeavour. The task of the rest of us is 
to meet our responsibilities by observing the Olympic 
Truce  and  making  peace  an  attainable  goal,  at  least 
this once. We should all find inspiration in next year’s 
Olympic Games, and reflect on how sport could be used 
as a useful tool to prevent or reduce tensions and build 
bridges between nations.
Mr.  Laassel  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  My 
delegation  is  pleased  with  the  holding  of  this  debate 
on the creation of a peaceful and better world through 
sport and the Olympic ideal. Morocco wants to accord 
special  importance  to  all  international  organizations 
that  promote  sport  throughout  the  world.  We  are 
also  pleased  at  the  activities  of  the  International 
Olympic Committee and the International Paralympic 
Committee aimed at promoting and strengthening the 
culture  of  peace  based  on  the  spirit  of  the  Olympic 
Truce. My delegation also welcomes the proclamation 
by  the  General  Assembly  of  the  International  Day  of 
Sport  for  Development  and  Peace  on  6  April,  which 
is  intended  to  highlight  the  contribution  of  sport  and 
physical  exercise  to  education,  human  development, 
the  adoption  of  healthy  lifestyles  and  the  building 
of  a  more  peaceful  world.  We  are  also  pleased  to  be 
co-sponsoring draft resolution A/70/L.3, presented this 
year by Brazil, which we hope the General Assembly 
will adopt by consensus.
Since  the  dawn  of  human  civilization,  sport 
has  always  made  a  major  contribution  to  bridging 
points of view and bringing countries closer together. 
Sport  has  the  unique  ability  to  attract,  mobilize  and 
inspire  people  throughout  the  world.  It  knows  neither 
geographic borders nor social classes. It is an important 
element of social inclusion and fulfilment that enables 
the strengthening of relations and the promotion of the 
ideals  of  peace,  fraternity,  solidarity,  non-violence, 
tolerance and justice.
Morocco  is  pleased  at  the  similarity  of  principles 
underlying  both  the  United  Nations  and  the  Olympic 
spirit. The Olympic ideals are very similar to those of 
the United Nations, whether we are talking about civil, 
political, economic, social or cultural rights. Moreover, 
we are pleased at the presence of the United Nations flag 
at all Olympic events, which brings to mind the common 
objective  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
Olympic  Committee.  During  sports  events  we  have  a 
real opportunity to promote knowledge, understanding 
and  the  enforcement  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human Rights. That is an ideal opportunity to convey 
messages  of  peace  and  tolerance  —  educational 
15-33386
9/20
A/70/PV.39 
26/10/2015
ignorance, 
the  fight  against 
messages  that  correct  stereotypes  and  clichés,  call 
for 
intolerance  and 
discrimination, and encourage the bridging of cultural 
differences.  My  delegation  highlights 
the  crucial 
role  and  the  important  and  long-lasting  contributions 
of  sport  to  the  dissemination  and  realization  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals announced in the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1).
The Kingdom of Morocco has a national programme 
for  sport  and  development.  Since  2008,  Morocco  has 
had in place a strategy that makes it possible to ensure 
that  the  practice  of  sports  and  its  values  are  part  of 
daily  life,  to  affirm  sport  as  a  fundamental  right  and 
a  crucial  element  of  social  integration,  and  to  extend 
access  to  sport  while  encouraging  the  creation  of 
sport  associations.  His  Majesty  the  King  believes  in 
giving a strong impetus to development, with sport as 
a fundamental element assisting in the development of 
the capacities and personal skills of young people. That 
has  always  been  one  of  the  strategic  priorities  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Morocco,  whether  it  be  youth  education, 
training, access to the labour market, the participation 
of young people in political life or their contribution to 
the  economic,  social  and  cultural  areas  of  life.  Every 
individual  must  have  the  possibility  of  practising 
sport  without  any  discrimination.  In  that  regard,  my 
delegation  emphasizes  the  particular  importance  of 
ensuring the participation of women, girls and persons 
with  disabilities  in  all  sports  activities  in  order  to 
enshrine  the  principle  of  equality  between  men  and 
women and to end stereotyping.
like 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would 
to 
reiterate  its  determination  to  strengthen  international 
brotherhood,  friendship,  goodwill  and  unity  among 
peoples  through  sport,  for  there  is  no  better  way 
to  inculcate  and  encourage  the  values  of  respect 
for  diversity  and 
tolerance  among  communities, 
civilizations  and  cultures.  Furthermore,  peace  and 
non-violence are some of the basic values that we are 
working to defend.
Ms. Liew (Singapore): Singapore looks forward to 
today’s adoption of draft resolution A/70/L.3, entitled 
“Building a peaceful and better world through sport and 
the Olympic ideal”. We are pleased to be a sponsor of 
the draft resolution, introduced by Brazil, and welcome 
the ideals represented by the Olympic Truce.
Sport  brings  many  benefits  to  societies.  Besides 
encouraging healthy lifestyles, it helps to build social 
capital and inspires the human spirit. More important, 
it is a profound way of bringing people together in the 
pursuit of excellence, while transcending differences in 
socioeconomic backgrounds, cultures and nationalities. 
The  Olympic  Games, 
the  pinnacle  of  sporting 
achievement, have helped to promote peace, tolerance 
and solidarity all over the world. The Olympic Agenda 
2020, approved by the International Olympic Committee 
in December 2014, is a strategic road map for our global 
efforts to promote the Olympic movement, safeguard its 
ideals and strengthen the value of sport in sustainable 
development.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank Mr. Thomas Bach, President of the International 
Olympic Committee, for his foresight and leadership in 
driving these reforms.
The  Olympic  Games  have  been  a  source  of 
inspiration for us in building a strong sporting culture 
in  Singapore.  Our  Vision  2030  master  plan  is  best 
described  as  the  story  of  how  sport  can  be  used  as  a 
national  strategy  for  developing  healthy  and  resilient 
people,  forging  strong,  united  communities,  instilling 
core values, creating shared memories and building a 
dynamic society and economy. The attributes that sport 
embodies — tenacity, discipline, teamwork, leadership 
and a love of country — are what we need as we compete 
in  a  more  globalized  environment  while  maintaining 
Singapore’s social cohesion and sense of identity. These 
are principles that we want to be firmly rooted not just 
in our athletes but throughout our society. We believe 
we can live better through sport.
Last  June,  Singapore  hosted  the  twenty-eighth 
Southeast  Asian  Games,  a  biennial  multisport  event 
with the participation of more than 4,000 athletes. The 
games echo the timeless Olympic values of excellence, 
friendship  and  respect.  What  shone  through  was 
the  spirit  of  friendship  among  the  peoples  of  South-
East  Asia.  While  athletes  competed  intensely  and 
spectators cheered vociferously, spectators and athletes 
alike  exemplified  sportsmanship  and  were  gracious 
even  in  defeat.  It  is  heartwarming  to  see  how  sport 
forges common bonds and brings peoples of different 
nationalities closer together, building a more peaceful 
and better world.
In  December,  Singapore  will  have  the  honour  of 
hosting the Para Games of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations for the first time. The event celebrates 
the  triumph  of  the  human  spirit  against  all  odds  and 
exemplifies  the  Paralympic  values  of  determination, 
inspiration,  courage  and  equality.  The  theme  of  the 
Games,  “Celebrate  the  extraordinary”,  pays  tribute 
10/20 
15-33386
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.39
to the tremendous courage and spirit of para-athletes, 
who  have  overcome  great  challenges  not  just  to  lead 
active  lives  but  to  excel  in  their  various  domains. 
Through the Games, we hope to inspire more persons 
with disabilities to overcome challenges and blaze new 
trails, and help to produce a society that is as inclusive 
as possible.
The  role  of  sport  as  an  enabler  of  sustainable 
development  is  duly  recognized  in  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1).  As  the 
United Nations and its Member States embark upon the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda, Singapore firmly 
believes  that  we  should  harness  the  value  of  sport  as 
an inspiration to aim higher and do development better 
in our race to build a more inclusive, sustainable and 
prosperous future for our peoples.
Mr. Al-Sowaidi (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): Qatar is 
also pleased to be a sponsor of today’s draft resolution 
A/70/L.3, entiled “Building a peaceful and better world 
through sport and the Olympic ideal”.
The  outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations 
summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development 
agenda, “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development” (resolution 70/1), cites sport 
as  an  important  enabler  of  sustainable  development. 
It  recognizes  sport’s  growing  contribution  to  the 
realization  of  development  and  peace  through  its 
promotion of tolerance and respect and the contributions 
it makes to the empowerment of women, young people, 
individuals and societies.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  highlight 
our  national  experience  in  this  area.  Qatar  is  a  firm 
believer  in  the  role  that  sport  plays  in  promoting 
peace, development and dialogue among civilizations. 
Within the framework of anchoring the 2030 Agenda in 
Qatar’s national vision, and with the goal of achieving 
that vision of a healthy, active society both physically 
and  psychologically,  Qatar  proclaimed  2  February  an 
annual national day of sport, beginning in 2012. It is a 
public holiday in Qatar, reflecting an initiative that is 
unique in the world. Its aim is to focus on and deepen 
understanding of sport in the community and increase 
popular participation in various sporting activities. We 
are working to that end by ensuring best practices and by 
promoting and encouraging the effective participation 
of all members of society in celebrating the holiday and 
in sports activities.
The  General  Assembly  has  addressed  the  issue 
of building a more peaceful and better world through 
sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal  on  many  occasions, 
highlighting  the  important  role  of  sport  in  enhancing 
education, health, development and peace. The work of 
Qatar’s Ministry of Youth and Sport is based on similar 
aims, and it oversees the curriculums for students aged 
between  15  and  18  in  many  areas  of  sport.  To  date, 
more  than  26,000  students  have  benefitted  from  such 
activities.
Our  national  Olympic  committee  has  signed  a 
memorandum  of  understanding  with  the  Alliance  for 
Civilization of the United Nations whereby it takes part 
in programmes and activities aimed at promoting peace 
and development through sport. In Geneva in 2013, we 
also had the honour of co-chairing, with Costa Rica, the 
Group of Friends of Sport for Development.
We  attach  particular  importance  to  sport  at  the 
national,  regional  and  international  levels.  As  we  are 
discussing  this  item  today,  Qatar  has  successfully 
hosted the Paralympic Games in order to integrate all 
members of society and to promote the advancement of 
communities. We also underscore the importance of the 
Doha GOALS Forum, which since 2012 has served as a 
forum for international development initiatives through 
sports,  sponsored  by  His  Excellency  Sheikh  Tamim 
bin Hamad Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar. The 
Qatar Olympic Committee is playing an important role 
in preparing Qatar to host the FIFA World Cup in 2022, 
which will be an exceptional occasion to reinforce the 
values of peace, development and understanding among 
all peoples of the world. It will be the first time that an 
event of such scale will be hosted in the Arab world. In 
this  regard,  we  are  also  planning  to  organize  a  high-
level  event,  with  the  participation  of  other  countries, 
at  the  United  Nations  on  the  economic,  social  and 
development role played by sport. We plan to share the 
lessons  learned  and  experiences  with  other  countries 
that have hosted other major sporting events in the past. 
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
importance of sports in building a world of peace and 
understanding with a view of promoting harmony and 
development, nationally and globally.
Mr. Kaganda (United Republic of Tanzania): We 
congratulate  Brazil,  host  of  the  2016  Olympic  and 
Paralympic  Games,  for  the  excellent  facilitation  of 
draft resolution A/70/L.3, which we are about to adopt 
and  which  Tanzania  has  gladly  co-sponsored.  We 
15-33386
11/20
A/70/PV.39 
26/10/2015
would  also  like  to  acknowledge  the  great  work  being 
undertaken  by  the  International  Olympic  Committee, 
the International Paralympic Committee and the United 
Nations Office on Sport for Development and Peace in 
promoting peace and understanding through sport and 
the Olympic ideal.
The  2016  Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games  will 
coincide  with  the  commemoration  of  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations.  This  meeting 
therefore  presents  a  unique  opportunity  to  assess 
the  contribution  of  sport  in  advancing  the  purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
especially  in  building  an  atmosphere  of  tolerance 
and  understanding  among  peoples  and  nations,  as 
envisioned in the outcome of the 2005 World Summit. In 
addition to the commemoration, the meeting coincides 
with  the  adoption  of  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1), which recognizes sport 
as  an  important  enabler  of  sustainable  development. 
Despite  that  recognition,  however,  many  people  in 
countries  across  the  world,  especially  in  developing 
countries, have yet to realize the full benefits of sport. 
Many are trapped in situations, including conflicts and 
colonial occupation, which inhibit their enjoyment of a 
social activity that dates back to ancient times. Those 
people  deserve  better.  They  must  not  be  left  behind. 
That  is  why  we  welcome  and  support  the  work  being 
undertaken  by  all  national,  regional  and  international 
stakeholders in promoting and strengthening a culture 
of peace based on the Greek tradition of the Olympic 
Truce. We call for the full cooperation of all Member 
States in realizing the objective of that just endeavour. 
We also call upon Member States and other stakeholders 
to include sport, where appropriate, as a complement to 
conflict-prevention and peacebuilding efforts.
Tanzania  believes  that  sport  is  an  important 
tool  for  building  national  unity,  fostering  gender 
equality  and  women’s  empowerment,  education, 
health,  development,  peace  and  conflict  prevention 
and  resolution.  Consequently,  since  the  birth  of  our 
nation,  sport  has  been  accorded  ample  attention, 
including  through  the  promulgation  of  policies  and 
legislation as well as through the establishment of the 
Ministry of Youth, Culture and Sport. Among the chief 
preoccupations  of  the  newly  independent  Tanzania 
was  the  restoration  of  several  traditional  sports, 
which, inter alia, served as a symbol of national pride. 
Games  and  sports  such  as  archery,  Bao  —  a  form  of 
Mancala  —  wrestling,  swimming,  running,  tug-of-
war,  javelin,  stick  fighting,  rope  skipping  and  oxen 
racing,  which  were  prevalent  in  pre-colonial  Africa, 
were  either  altered  or  eliminated  entirely,  as  they 
were perceived as either primitive or pagan in nature. 
We  therefore  ensured  that  all  persons,  irrespective  of 
their age, sex, religion or tribe, participated in sporting 
activities,  which  were  and  are  still  conducted  at  the 
primary, secondary and higher education levels, as well 
as among Government employees, through the annual 
inter-ministerial sports competition.
Like the United Nations, the strength and uniqueness 
of the Olympic establishment is its diversity, reflected 
by the participating nations that are united in support of 
its ideals. We are very satisfied that the organizers have 
made every effort to involve persons with disabilities, 
through  the  Paralympic  Games.  We  are  concerned, 
however,  by  the  uneven  representation  of  developed 
and  developing  countries  that  are  participating.  It  is 
imperative,  therefore,  that  we  foster  partnerships  and 
enhance  cooperation  to  bridge  that  gap.  We  need  to 
build  lasting  and  mutually  beneficial  partnerships  to 
promote sport among youth, for we know too well that, 
in addition to other benefits, sport can be an important 
source  of  livelihood.  Tanzania’s  doors  are  open  to 
such partnerships, including in the development of the 
necessary  infrastructure  for  training  young  persons 
in  different  sports.  Only  recently,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  inaugurated  a  state-of-the-art 
community-based sports park, which was developed in 
partnership  with  the  Symbion  Power  Company  of  the 
United States of America and Sunderland Association 
Football Club/A.F.C. of the United Kingdom.
In conclusion, we would like to voice our dismay 
at the continued racism and xenophobic tendencies in 
sport. We note that such tendencies run counter to the 
spirit and principles of both the Charter of the United 
Nations and the Olympic Games. We recall paragraph 
218  of  the  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of 
Action,  which  urges  Member  States,  in  cooperation 
with the relevant Olympic bodies, to intensify the fight 
against  racism  in  sport,  including  through  education 
and  raising  awareness  of  the  Olympic  spirit,  which 
calls for human understanding, tolerance, fair play and 
solidarity.  We  believe  that  the  International  Day  of 
Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  to  be  observed  on 
6 April, should be used to address some of those thorny 
and regrettable issues.
Mr.  Narang  (India):  We  welcome  the  emphasis 
the General Assembly has laid on sport as an agent of 
12/20 
15-33386
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.39
peace and an instrument of development. India strongly 
concurs with the recognition of sport as an ideal to be 
pursued for several noble objectives that are at the heart 
of the Organization’s work.
In  ancient  Indian  tradition,  exercise  and  sport 
were  considered  an  inseparable  part  of  good  health. 
As  an  old  proverb  in  Sanskrit  emphasizes,  the  virtue 
of  health  is  the  basis  of  all  achievements.  The  author 
of the proverb is extolling the benefit of exercise and 
sport  for  health,  long  age,  strength,  freedom  from 
disease  and  ultimately,  happiness.  Sport  plays  an 
important role at both the individual and social levels. 
At the individual level, as the Sanskrit proverb notes, 
sport is directly linked with good health, an important 
objective  of  development  policy  and,  needless  to  say, 
now a dedicated Sustainable Development Goal.
At  the  same  time,  sport  also  builds  character.  It 
helps motivate children and youth, inculcating in them 
the much-needed esprit de corps, a sense of partnership 
with others. It also develops leadership skills, a spirit of 
sharing, of competing fairly and of respecting others. 
At the social level, on the other hand, there can indeed 
be no more powerful tool than sport to inspire and bring 
people together for a common purpose. Principles such 
as  non-discrimination  and  equality,  including  gender 
equality,  and  the  foundation  of  all  human  rights  can 
be taught through sports. Sport also helps foster peace 
and  a  feeling  of  friendship  among  all  nations  and  all 
peoples.
We are happy that the contribution of sport as an 
important enabler of sustainable development has been 
duly  noted  by  our  leaders  in  the  Declaration  of  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1),  which  has  correctly  recognized  the  growing 
contribution of sport to the realization of development 
and  peace  in  its  promotion  of  tolerance  and  respect 
and the contributions it makes to the empowerment of 
women,  young  people,  individuals  and  communities, 
as  well  as  to  health,  education  and  social  inclusion 
objectives.
India  wholeheartedly  recognizes  the  invaluable 
contribution of the Olympic Movement in establishing 
sport  as  an  ideal  means  for  the  promotion  of  peace, 
good  neighbourliness  and  development.  We  welcome 
the upcoming Summer Olympic Games and Paralympic 
Games, to be held in Rio de Janeiro. We wish our friends 
from  Brazil  every  success  in  hosting  this  remarkable 
celebration  of  the  human  spirit.  In  the  same  vein,  we 
also would like to commend the efforts of the organizers 
of  several  such  events  earlier  this  year.  To  mention 
only  a  few,  there  were  the  Special  Olympics  World 
Summer  Games  in  Los  Angeles,  the  Cricket  World 
Cup  in  Australia  and  New  Zealand,  the  Fédération 
internationale  de  football  association  Women’s  World 
Cup  in  Canada,  the  Universidad  in  the  Republic  of 
Korea and the European Games in Azerbaijan.
At  the  national  level  in  India,  sports,  games  and 
physical fitness have been an integral part of the Indian 
heritage,  evident  even  today  not  only  in  the  highly 
evolved  system  of  yoga,  but  also  in  the  vast  range  of 
indigenous games and martial arts practised in different 
parts  of  India.  A  young  and  resurgent  India  has  once 
again  embraced  sport.  That  is  evident  in  the  revival 
of several sports, not to mention hockey and kabaddi, 
which are today competing with cricket for prime-time 
television  viewership.  Yet  India 
is  a  developing 
country  where  the  sporting  infrastructure  has  not 
been  able  to  match  the  growing  demand.  Our  higher 
population density has also meant a comparative lack 
of  open  access,  especially  in  urban  areas.  The  Indian 
Government is actively engaged in these issues to make 
sure that sport remains available to every Indian.
Allow  me  to  also  highlight  the  important  role  of 
yoga as a practice for both physical and mental health. 
Recognizing  the  rich  and  proven  expertise  of  this 
ancient  practice  for  building  healthy  individuals  and 
communities,  the  Government  of  India  has  redoubled 
its  efforts  to  promote  yoga  as  an  important  health 
and  sporting  activity  throughout  the  country.  In  that 
context,  the  Assembly’s  decision  in  the  past  year  to 
commemorate  21  June  as  the  International  Day  of 
Yoga  and  the  unprecedented  celebration  of  the  first 
International  Day  of  Yoga,  right  here  at  the  United 
Nations earlier this year, are particularly gratifying for 
my  delegation.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to thank the General Assembly, and indeed the entire 
membership, for their valuable support.
The  former  President  of  South  Africa,  Nelson 
Mandela, who famously used sport for social harmony 
and peace, could not have put it better when he said of 
sport, “It speaks to youth in a language they understand”. 
We would therefore do well to use this tool that speaks 
a universal language in the pursuit of our universally 
recognized goals of peace and development.
Allow  me  to  conclude  by  again  emphasizing 
India’s  sincere  belief  that  sports  and  all  sporting 
events  strengthen  the  cherished  ties  of  goodwill  and 
understanding that unite us as one family.
15-33386
13/20
A/70/PV.39 
26/10/2015
Mr. Lambertini (Italy): Italy aligns itself with the 
statement  delivered  by  the  observer  of  the  European 
Union at the beginning of this meeting and wishes to 
make  the  following  additional  remarks  in  its  national 
capacity.
My  country  welcomes  the  imminent  adoption  of 
draft resolution A/70/L.3 and is proud to be among its 
sponsors. The clear consensus of the General Assembly 
on this issue demonstrates that the ideal of the Olympic 
Truce  is  alive  and  powerful.  We  must  now  translate 
that  commitment  into  reality.  In  a  time  of  persistent 
instability  and  increasing  challenges,  we  applaud 
the  message  sent  by  the  draft  resolution  of  sport  as  a 
means  of  prevention.  In  effect,  its  universal  language 
can bridge gaps and promote the core values necessary 
for  tolerance  and  lasting  peace.  On  the  playing  field, 
cultural,  linguistic,  religious,  social  and  ideological 
differences  disappear.  We  also  highly  appreciate 
the  emphasis  this  year  on  vulnerable  groups,  such  as 
children, persons with disabilities, women and girls, as 
well as the need to engage them in the practice of sports 
for peace and development.
Italy is a strong believer in sport as a powerful tool 
and  vehicle  to  promote  peace  and  development  and 
is  proud  to  be  part  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of  Sport 
for Development and Peace. That is also why in 2009 
we actively supported the adoption of resolution 64/3, 
which  granted  observer  status  to  the  International 
Olympic Committee in the General Assembly, and we 
welcome President Bach and Vice-President Pescante.
More recently, in 2014, we organized at the United 
Nations  in  New  York  an  event  on  children,  sport  and 
development,  with  an  inter-campus  programme,  a 
non-profit social event that instituted the famous Italian 
soccer  team  Internazionale  Milano,  which  provides 
assistance  to  needy  children  and  young  people  in  29 
countries around the world. Its aim is to give back to 
children the right to play through football programmes, 
teach  youths  team  work  and  the  meaning  of  fair  play 
and give them access to health and education services, 
which  are  very  often  absent  from  their  villages.  The 
main message of the event was that sport is a crucial 
means  to  promote  sustainable  development.  It  has 
already proved to be a cost-effective and flexible tool 
in promoting peace and security objectives.
Since the inception of the Millennium Development 
Goals, in 2000, sport played a vital role in advancing 
each  of  the  eight  goals.  We  are  convinced  that  sports 
will also be a powerful tool to achieve the 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals that we have recently adopted.
As Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon once said, sport 
has become a world language, a common denominator 
that breaks down all the walls, all the barriers. It is in 
that  spirit  that  we  wish  the  best  success  to  Brazil  for 
the organization of the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de 
Janeiro.
Ms. Kasese-Bota (Zambia): I thank the President 
for according my delegation an opportunity to contribute 
to this very important agenda item, which focuses on 
the role of sport in the promotion of development and 
peace. The introduction of this year’s draft resolution 
A/70/L.3) is very timely, coming just one month after 
our Heads of State and Government adopted the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) 
and the commemoration of 70 years of existence of the 
United Nations during the high-level debate, in which 
countries  recommitted  to  the  ideals  of  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations, espousing international peace and 
security. Zambia recognizes the valuable role that sport 
plays in the promotion of peace, dialogue, reconciliation, 
national  and  regional  cooperation  and  solidarity, 
education, health and sustainable development.
As  a  sport-loving  country,  Zambia  reaffirms 
its  commitments  to  the  provision  of  the  necessary 
legal  framework  as  well  as  financial  support  for  the 
integration of sport in the national development agenda. 
In that regard, physical education has been incorporated 
as part of our country’s educational curriculum starting 
for students at a very early age. Zambia acknowledges 
that sport is an important medium for the promotion of 
harmony and a unifier of people of all political, social 
and  religious  affiliations.  Sport  has  been  used  as  a 
means of recreation, healthy life style and as a crowd-
pulling  medium  for  the  dissemination  of  life-saving 
messages,  including  those  concerning  HIV/AIDS  in 
both  primary  and  secondary  schools.  Consequently,  a 
number of community projects have been implemented, 
and they have successfully revealed the power of sport 
in bringing positive social transformation. The projects 
include the Go Sisters! programme, which focuses on 
empowering  girls  and  women  between  the  ages  of  12 
and 25 to take on leadership roles in their communities, 
with  peer-leaders  creating  self-managed,  organizing 
committees  to  plan  and  lead  educational  and  sports 
programmes.  A  number  of  street  kids,  orphaned 
children  and  those  affected  by  HIV/AIDS  have  been 
14/20 
15-33386
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.39
enrolled in those programmes, which have yielded very 
positive results.
Sport  has  furthermore  been  identified  as  an 
important  skill  and  career  pursued  by  young  people, 
which provides meaningful and very sustainable income 
across all age groups. Therefore, young people are being 
made aware of the profitability of pursuing sport as a 
profession.  In  that  regard,  the  Zambian  Government, 
in conjunction with sports associations, has embarked 
upon  enhancing  talent  identification  and  promoting 
excellence  in  that  field.  Zambia  remains  committed 
to  the  promotion  of  sport  for  development  and  peace 
by  supporting,  among  other  things,  the  national 
Paralympic Committee, an institution that coordinates 
sports  programmes  for  people  with  disabilities.  The 
Government  is  also  making  efforts  to  construct  user-
friendly  sports  facilities  to  accommodate  various 
disciplines in sport.
Zambia is a beneficiary of the International Olympic 
Committee’s pilot programme Sports for Hope, which 
built  a  multi-purpose  centre  for  the  Olympic  Truce 
in  Lusaka.  The  Olympic  youth  development  centre 
has  served  sportsmen  and  sportswomen  from  all 
over  Africa.  The  centre  houses  modern  facilities  for 
football,  hockey  and  other  athletics.  It  also  attracts 
underprivileged youth within Lusaka and gives them a 
chance to unleash and fulfil their potential for sports by 
participating and training at the centre.
Our modern sports infrastructure enabled Zambia 
to  successfully  host  the  2012  under-20  youth  games 
of  the  Supreme  Council  for  Sport  in  Africa,  zone  6 
under  the  confederation  of  sports  associations.  The 
successful  hosting  of  those  tournaments  at  the  centre 
has prompted the Government to consider larger-scale 
continental games in the future. Zambia also uses the 
practices  of  the  International  Olympic  Committee  as 
a model throughout the country. The Government has 
accordingly embarked upon the construction of sports 
facilities in all the provinces of Zambia.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  underscore  Zambia’s 
commitment  to  youth  sport  in  fostering  peace  and 
sustainable development at national, regional and global 
levels. Zambia stands ready to work with all cooperating 
partners to promote various sport disciplines in order to 
maintain peace and achieve sustainable development.
Mr.  León  González  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Cuba  has  traditionally  been  a  co-sponsor  of  the  draft 
resolution  (A/70/L.3)  before  us,  presented  by  Brazil. 
We  will  continue  to  back  efforts  to  promote  sport  as 
a way to promote the development of peace and well-
being,  as  well  as  the  achievement  of  goals  in  health, 
education,  social  inclusion  and  the  empowerment  of 
women,  young  people  and  communities,  in  general, 
in  compliance  with  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1).
Cuba  has  put  the  development  of  mass  sport 
at  the  service  of  improving  the  quality  of  life  for 
the  population,  and  practising  sport  is  free  for  all 
citizens.  Guaranteeing  the  enjoyment  of  sport  as  a 
constitutional  right  for  all  Cubans  is  one  of  the  most 
important achievements of the Cuban Revolution in the 
field  of  human  rights.  Today,  the  practice  of  sport  is 
widespread  throughout  the  country,  thereby  allowing 
the  Cuban  population  to  achieve  high  fitness  levels, 
with  the  majority  of  beneficiaries  being  women.  The 
inclusion  of  physical  education  as  a  subject  within 
the  national  education  system  and  the  establishment 
of  specialized  education  centres  that  provide  specific 
physical education programmes have played a vital role 
in achieving those goals.
Cuba has trained a considerable number of men and 
women teachers and professors who are specialized in 
physical  education.  They  implement  our  strategy  to 
promote  a  culture  of  physical  well-being  and  health 
in  the  community,  including  via  fitness  and  therapy 
centres. The are also responsible for our programmes 
to  promote  good  health  and  prevention  within  groups 
representative  of  the  elderly,  pregnant  and  nursing 
women, as well as community aerobic groups and basic 
gymnastic  groups  for  women,  all  of  which  make  up 
our  development  strategy.  Cuba  has  a  broad  network 
of sports facilities with services in all municipalities of 
the country, which encourage the the practice of sport 
within the general population.
The broad coverage of sport education is supported 
through  the  system  of  sport  education  established 
by  the  Cuban  State.  Each  province  has  a  university 
department/faculty  for  physical  culture.  There 
is 
an  institute  of  physical  culture  at  the  national  level, 
eight schools that train physical education teachers at 
the  intermediary  level  and  an  international  school  of 
physical  education  and  sport.  The  latter  school  was 
inaugurated  in  2000,  opening  its  doors  to  the  first 
students coming from the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo. Today, it is still graduating thousands of young 
people  hailing  from  developing  countries.  One  of  the 
achievements of the training within the institutions of 
15-33386
15/20
A/70/PV.39 
26/10/2015
the sports education system has led to the establishment 
of  specialized  centres  for  training  athletes,  including 
top-level professional athletes. Cuba has developed one 
of the most advanced sports medicine systems, including 
one  of  the  best-equipped  anti-doping  laboratories,  as 
recognized  by  the  International  Olympic  Committee. 
That modern laboratory reflects Cuba’s commitment to 
combating doping in sport.
Cuban  sport  is  currently  in  very  good  health  and 
enjoys widespread recognition at both the regional and 
international Olympic levels, as evidenced not only in 
the outcome of every competition at every level, but also 
in  the  solidarity  and  cooperation  that  Cuba  provides 
to  countries  that  so  request,  by  dispatching  sports 
professionals  to  them.  Cuba’s  presence,  expressed 
through its global solidarity with trainers and physical 
education teachers, upholds the prestige of Cuban sport. 
Cuba has supported the sporting achievements of many 
countries and will continue to do so to the best of its 
abilities.
All those achievements, both at the national level 
and in terms of cooperation, have been made possible 
thanks to the will of the Cuban Government and people. 
However, our efforts aimed at the full exercise of that 
right  have  been  thwarted  for  more  than  50  years  by 
the  genocidal  policy  of  the  economic,  financial  and 
commercial  blockade  imposed  on  Cuba.  To  give  just 
one  example,  Cuban  sporting  institutions  have  been 
prevented from acquiring in the American market tools, 
equipment and uniforms such as pole- and high-jump 
mats, Multimarc folding hoops for artistic gymnastics, 
Canondale bicycles and electronic measuring equipment 
for athletic training, among other things.
Finally,  Cuba 
reaffirms 
to 
promoting sport both for the Cuban people and for the 
brotherly  countries  that  need  our  modest  contribution 
and experience in that realm.
its  commitment 
Mr.  Crilchuk  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At 
the outset, allow me to commend the work being done at 
the United Nations by the Group of Friends of Sport for 
Development and Peace, which aims to promote sports 
as  a  means  for  promoting  citizenship  and  friendship. 
We  also  commend  the  expected  adoption  of  draft 
resolution  A/70/L.3,  which  was  sponsored  by  Brazil 
and co-sponsored by my country. Furthermore, I would 
like to highlight Brazil’s crucial work in organizing the 
upcoming Olympic and Paralympic Games to be held in 
2016, for the first time in our region. We are convinced 
that  the  Games  will  be  successful  and  that  they  will 
bring together many athletes from across the world.
Much has been said about how sports can play a key 
role in the United Nations efforts to improve the lives of 
people around the world. Sports build bridges between 
people  and  communities  and  prepares  fertile  soil  for 
peace.  By  promoting  a  philosophy  of  life  based  on 
the Olympic Game of exerting oneself for excellence, 
demonstrating  respect  and  celebrating  friendship,  the 
Olympics  show  that  sport  can  help  to  build  a  better 
world. Those efforts are closely related to the initiatives 
and  important  programmes  that  many  Member  States 
and  international  organizations  have  undertaken  in 
order  to  advance  sport  in  a  comprehensive  fashion 
comparable  to  achievements  in  the  social  realm. 
The  importance  of  sport  in  the  new  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) provides an 
example of that.
In Argentina, we have implemented a national sport 
policy,  and  we  promote  healthy  practices  that  foster 
the values that promote people’s holistic development, 
including  commitment,  solidarity,  fellowship  and 
respect for diversity. In that regard, for the past decade 
Argentina  has  been  developing  the  concept  of  social 
sport, by which we mean the practice of physical and 
sporting activities geared to the population as a whole, 
irrespective of age, gender, physical condition or social 
or ethnic origin, and which in its various guises generates 
inclusion,  thereby  making  sports  an  endeavour  that 
encourages  comprehensive  human  development.  We 
see with satisfaction that those elements are reflected 
in the draft resolution that we are about to adopt.
As  members  of  the  Assembly  know,  the  city  of 
Buenos Aires was chosen for the third Summer Youth 
Olympics, which will be held in 2018. We believe that 
the selection of Buenos Aires expresses the international 
community’s recognition of Argentina’s achievements 
in  sport  and  the  socioeconomic  development  of  our 
country in recent years.
In conclusion, I wish to indicate that by adopting 
this  draft  resolution,  we  propose  to  continue  sending 
a  clear  message  of  peace  and  international  goodwill 
to  the  inhabitants  of  the  world.  As  a  sponsor  of  the 
draft  resolution,  we  call  upon  everyone  to  observe 
the  Olympic  Truce,  an  ancient  tradition  that  makes 
it  possible  for  athletes  and  others  to  take  part  in  the 
Games under secure conditions, mobilizing the peoples 
of the world in the name of peace.
16/20 
15-33386
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.39
Mr.  Yaremenko 
(Ukraine):  Ukraine 
fully 
supports the adoption by consensus of draft resolution 
A/70/L.3,  on  building  a  peaceful  and  better  world 
through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal.  Traditionally, 
Ukraine  is  one  of  the  States  that  have  co-sponsored 
that resolution. However, the draft resolution contains a 
provision noting the successful conclusion of the XXII 
Olympic Winter Games and the XI Paralympic Winter 
Games  held  in  Sochi,  the  Russian  Federation,  from 
7  to  23  February  2014  and  from  7  to  16  March  2014, 
respectively.  We  believe  that  this  provision  directly 
contradicts  the  ancient  Greek  tradition  of  ekecheiria, 
the  Olympic  Truce.  During  those  games,  the  Russian 
Federation  cynically  violated  the  Olympic  Truce. 
It  illegally  occupied  and  annexed  the  autonomous 
republic  of  Crimea,  Ukraine,  and  still  continues  its 
aggression against my country. Taking those facts into 
consideration,  this  year  Ukraine  regrettably  had  to 
abstain from co-sponsoring the draft resolution.
Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity 
to wish Brazil every success and to stress our full and 
sincere  support  for  its  hosting  of  the  2016  Olympic 
Games  and  Paralympic  Games,  as  well  as  promoting 
and strengthening a culture of peace based on the spirit 
of the Olympic Truce.
The Acting President: In accordance with General 
Assembly  resolution  64/3,  of  19  October  2009,  I  now 
call  on  the  President  of  the  International  Olympic 
Committee.
Mr.  Bach  (International  Olympic  Committee) 
(spoke 
International  Olympic 
Committee  (IOC)  is  honoured  to  take  the  floor  today 
before the General Assembly.
in  French):  The 
to 
its  representatives 
The  IOC  would  like  to  thank  the  Government 
of  Brazil  and 
the  United 
Nations  for  having  submitted  to  the  Assembly  draft 
resolution  A/70/L.3.  We  would  also  like  to  express 
our  sincere  gratitude  to  the  Group  of  Friends  of 
Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  co-chaired  by  the 
Principality  of  Monaco  and  Tunisia,  and  to  all  the 
States  that  sponsored  the  draft  resolution,  as  well 
as  the  Special  Adviser  of  the  Secretary-General  for 
Sport  for  Development  and  Peace  for  supporting  the 
incorporation and integration of sport into the work of 
the United Nations.
(spoke in English)
Both the United Nations and the IOC are built on 
the  shared  values  of  tolerance,  solidarity  and  peace. 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon described this in the 
best way, namely, that “Olympic principles are United 
Nations principles”.
The  IOC  applauds  the  General  Assembly  once 
again for recognizing sport as an important enabler to 
foster peace and understanding in the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1).  As  during 
the most recent United Nations sustainable development 
summit,  I  want  to  emphasize  that  the  United  Nations 
and all its Member States can count on the unwavering 
support of the IOC to achieve our common goal of the 
peaceful development of humankind.
that 
In  particular, 
With  our  Olympic  Agenda  2020,  we  are  fully 
aligned  with  the  United  Nations  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development. 
is 
true  of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  16,  which  is 
about  building  accountable,  effective  and  inclusive 
institutions. The IOC, with its Olympic Agenda 2020, 
has ensured that we are in compliance with the highest 
standards of good governance and transparency. In that 
respect, we are asking other major sports organizations 
to  undertake  the  necessary  swift  reforms  in  order  to 
restore their reputations.
The  Olympic  Truce  stands  for  our  shared  values 
of tolerance, solidarity and peace. Sport is in a unique 
position  to  put  the  spirit  of  the  Olympic  Truce  into 
practice.  Sport  is  the  only  area  of  human  experience 
that has achieved universal law. Regardless of where in 
the world we practice sport, the rules are the same and 
apply to everyone. They are based on our shared values. 
Sport  is  always  about  building  bridges  —  it  is  never 
about erecting walls.
We  can  only  build  bridges  if  our  autonomy  and 
our neutrality are respected. In the mutual interest of 
both sport and politics, I urge the Assembly to continue 
to  protect  and  strengthen  the  autonomy  of  sport,  as 
it  did  in  adopting  resolution  69/6  last  October,  which 
recognizes the autonomy of sport.
In  Olympic  sport,  all  people  are  equal  regardless 
of their race, gender, social status, cultural or political 
background, faith or belief. That fundamental principle 
of  non-discrimination  allows  sport  to  promote  peace 
and  understanding  among  all  people.  The  Olympic 
Games are the culmination of that vision. The Olympic 
Games  is  the  time  when  the  values  of  tolerance, 
solidarity and peace are brought to life. It is the time 
when the international community comes together for 
peaceful competition.
15-33386
17/20
A/70/PV.39 
26/10/2015
In  the  Olympic  Village,  we  see  tolerance  and 
solidarity  in  their  purest  form.  Athletes  from  all  206 
National  Olympic  Committees  are  living  together 
in  harmony,  without  any  kind  of  discrimination.  It 
represents  the  true  spirit  of  the  so-called  “Olympic 
Unity  in  Diversity”,  with  athletes  from  every  corner 
of the world living together under one roof. In what is 
literally a global village, the athletes get to know and 
understand  each  other,  not  just  on  a  human  level  by 
sharing  their  experiences,  emotions  and  meals.  They 
also share their respect for excellence, for victory and 
for  defeat.  In  that  way,  the  Olympic  athletes  set  an 
example to the whole world that it is possible to engage 
in competition while at the same time live peacefully 
together.
In this Olympic spirit of peace and solidarity, the 
IOC,  together  with  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees, is assisting refugees 
all  over  the  world  by  providing  activities,  hope  and 
self-confidence  through  sport.  The  Secretary-General 
appointed  our  Honorary  President,  Jacques  Rogge,  as 
Special Envoy for Youth Refugees and Sport in 2014. 
The IOC is happy to support those activities financially 
and  has  created  an  additional  fund  of  $2  million  to 
bring hope to refugees through sport. At the same time, 
we are assisting high-level refugee athletes to continue 
their sports careers. We help them to make their dream 
of sporting excellence come true, even when they have 
to flee from violence and hunger. I would like to appeal 
to  all  United  Nations  Member  States  to  help  us  to 
identify such hopeful, great athletes.
At present, however, none of those athletes would 
have the chance to participate in the Olympic Games, 
even  if  they  qualified  from  the  sports  point  of  view, 
because with their refugee status they are left without 
a  home  country,  or  a  National  Olympic  Committee 
to  represent  them.  Today,  I  am  happy  to  announce 
before  this  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  that  the 
International Olympic Committee will invite the highest 
qualified refugee athletes to participate in the Olympic 
Games in Rio de Janeiro 2016. Having no national team 
to belong to, having no flag to march behind, having no 
national  anthem  to  be  played  for  them,  those  refugee 
athletes will be welcomed to the Olympic Games with 
the Olympic flag and the Olympic anthem. They will 
have  a  home,  together  with  all  of  the  other  11,000 
athletes from 206 National Olympic Committees in the 
Olympic Village. That will be a symbol of hope for all 
of the refugees in the world, and will make the world 
better aware of the magnitude of the crisis.
inclusion  happened 
Another  wonderful  example  of  how  sport  can 
promote  peace  and 
recently 
with  the  IOC  recognition  of  the  National  Olympic 
Committee of South Sudan. With that recognition, we 
wanted to send a signal of hope to a young nation and 
its  people  —  a  signal  of  hope  because  sport  always 
builds bridges among all peoples and all cultures. The 
President  of  the  newly  recognized  National  Olympic 
Committee of South Sudan thanked the IOC session by 
saying, “Now we will arm our young people with sport, 
and  not  with  guns.”  That  is  the  spirit  of  the  Olympic 
Truce  that  the  Assembly  will  uphold  in  supporting 
today’s draft resolution.
The  Olympic  Games  are  the  moment  when  the 
international  community  comes  together  to  celebrate 
our common humanity. There is no doubt in my mind 
that the upcoming Olympic and Paralympic Games in 
Rio de Janeiro in 2016 will provide a spectacular stage 
to showcase the best of the human spirit. We can look 
forward together to inspiring Olympic Games.
I  would 
like 
to  reiterate 
the  warm-hearted 
invitation  to  the  international  community  to  come 
together  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  in  2016  extended  by  the 
Organizing Committee, so ably led by our friend and 
colleague  Carlos  Nuzman.  Brazil  and  the  Brazilians 
will enthusiastically welcome the world and overwhelm 
us  with  their  joy  of  life  and  their  passion  for  sport. 
Through  the  Olympic  Games,  the  Brazilian  people 
will  remind  the  world  of  their  unique  combination  of 
passion and efficiency.
History  will  speak  of  a  Rio  de  Janeiro  before  the 
Olympic  Games  and  a  much  better  Rio  de  Janeiro 
after  the  Olympic  Games.  Rio  de  Janeiro  is  building 
a legacy of the Olympic Games through very concrete 
measures.  Much-needed  improvements  to  the  public 
transportation  system  and  education  programmes  for 
all  will  benefit  generations  to  come.  The  Olympic 
Games in Rio de Janeiro are already now a symbol for 
the efforts of Brazil to build a better future for all its 
citizens.
The values of tolerance, solidarity and peace are a 
central part of Rio de Janeiro’s legacy to the people of 
Brazil. They will showcase sport as a key tool for peace, 
social inclusion and tolerance in the fight against racial, 
ethnic and gender discrimination.
I would like to commend the efforts of Brazil, the 
Organizing Committee and the Paralympic Movement 
to  promote  the  rights  and  inclusion  of  persons  with 
18/20 
15-33386
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.39
disabilities at the Paralympic Games and beyond. This 
is  another  example  of  how  sport  can  inspire  social 
progress.  Still  another  example  is  the  cooperation 
between the IOC and UN-Women. Our joint initiative 
targets girls between the ages of 12 and 14 in schools 
across  the  state  of  Rio  de  Janeiro.  Using  a  series  of 
sports programmes, we are empowering those girls to 
become future leaders.
The mission of the IOC is to put sport at the service 
of humankind. We are aware that we can reach this goal 
only in partnership with others, which is why today we 
are  reaffirming  our  strong  commitment  to  the  United 
Nations and its Member States to work in partnership 
towards making our shared goals a reality. The Olympic 
Truce can give hope for a better future for all. With the 
General Assembly’s support for the draft resolution on 
the Truce today, it is my hope that the Olympic Games 
Rio  de  Janeiro  2016  will  become  synonymous  with 
the  efforts  of  the  international  community  to  build  a 
peaceful and better world for all through sport.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on agenda item 12.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/70/L.3, entitled “Building a peaceful and 
better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Zhang  Saijin  (Department  for  General 
Assembly and Conference Management): I should like 
to  announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
in  document  A/70/L.3,  the  following  countries  have 
become sponsors of the draft resolution: Afghanistan, 
Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Azerbaijan, 
the  Bahamas,  Bangladesh, 
Barbados,  Belize,  Benin,  Bhutan,  the  Plurinational 
State  of  Bolivia,  Botswana,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Burundi,  Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Chad, 
Colombia,  the  Comoros,  the  Congo,  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo,  the  Dominican  Republic,  El  Salvador, 
Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Gabon,  the 
Gambia,  Ghana,  Grenada,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana,  Honduras,  India,  Indonesia, 
the  Islamic 
Republic of Iran, Iraq, Kiribati, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, the 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, 
Liberia,  Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Mauritania,  the  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Namibia,  Nauru, 
Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Palau, Panama, Papua 
New Guinea, Peru, the Philippines, Qatar, the Republic 
of  Moldova,  Rwanda,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint 
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San 
Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 
Serbia, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South 
Sudan, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, the 
Syrian Arab Republic, the former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, 
Turkmenistan, Uganda, the United Arab Emirates, the 
United Republic of Tanzania, Vanuatu, Yemen, Zambia 
and Zimbabwe.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  Assembly  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/70/L.3?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 70/4).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded its consideration of agenda item 12.
The meeting rose at 5.20 p.m.
15-33386
19/20
