United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
30th plenary meeting
Monday, 12 October 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.30
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 122 (continued)
Strengthening of the United Nations system
Report of the Secretary-General (A/70/357)
Identical letters dated 17 June 2015 from the 
Secretary-General addressed to the President 
of the General Assembly and the President of 
the Security Council (A/70/95)
Mr. Ceylan (Turkey): I thank you, Mr. President, 
for  organizing  this  meeting.  Let  me  also  express  our 
gratitude  to  the  High-level  Independent  Panel  on 
Peace  Operations  for  its  comprehensive  and  inclusive 
review  (see  A/70/95),  and  the  Secretary-General  for 
his  valuable  report  (A/70/357)  on  the  future  of  peace 
operations.
Turkey  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  by 
the observer of the European Union this morning (see 
A/70/PV.29).
Today, we are confronted with increasingly complex 
challenges  to  international  peace  and  security,  which 
surpass  the  individual  response  capacity  of  any  one 
Member  State.  The 
threats  against 
Member  States,  especially  terrorism,  constitute  the 
major challenge in that regard.
transnational 
The latest terrorist bombings in Turkey have been 
a stark reminder of that threat. I would like to express 
our sincere gratitude to you, Mr. President, and to those 
who  expressed  their  solidarity  after  those  heinous 
terrorist attacks.
Against that backdrop, we must acknowledge that 
the  United  Nations  is  also  facing  difficulties.  We  are 
aware  that  some  of  the  difficulties  that  the  United 
Nations is currently encountering stem not only from 
inadequate  resources  or  organizational  problems,  but 
also  from  the  deficit  in  political  will  among  Member 
States for undertaking the necessary reforms. We must 
therefore  adopt  more  effective  strategies  in  order  to 
strengthen  our  collective  response  capability  without 
prejudice  to  the  traditional  bedrock  principles  of  the 
United Nations.
In  that  sense,  both  the  key  findings  and  the 
recommendations  of  the  High-level  Panel’s  review 
and  the  road  map  set  out  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  need  to  be  thoroughly  examined,  as  they  offer 
clear  guidance  on  a  number  of  cross-cutting  issues. 
Moreover, taken together with other review processes, 
notably  the  review  of  the  peacebuilding  architecture 
and  the  global  study  on  resolution  1325  (2000),  the 
overlapping findings of those reports may serve as an 
effective remedy for the long-standing problems in the 
United Nations peace and security architecture.
We  acknowledge  the  importance  of  peacekeeping 
operations,  as  they  have  become  the  flagship  activity 
of the United Nations, and we concur with the idea that 
more  has  to  be  done  to  improve  the  effectiveness  of 
those  peacekeeping  missions.  We  should  devote  more 
energy and, if necessary, more resources to that end, if 
we really want to live up to our commitmentsvis-à-vis 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-31011 (E)
*1531011*
A/70/PV.30 
12/10/2015
the protection of civilians and human rights. With that 
understanding,  Turkey  made  a  new  and  solid  pledge, 
in  addition  to  its  existing  contributions,  to  support 
peacekeeping  missions  at  the  leaders’  summit  on 
peacekeeping operations on 28 September.
On the other hand, as one of the Co-Chairs of the 
Group of Friends of Mediation, we would also like to see 
the United Nations pay more attention to the growing 
need  for  effective  mediation  and  conflict  prevention. 
That would be the natural outcome of the primacy that 
the  review  of  peace  operations  attributed  to  political 
engagement.  The  entire  United  Nations  membership 
and its principal organs should see that obvious linkage 
as  the  crux  of  both  the  High-level  Panel’s  and  the 
Secretary-General’s messages, if we really want to go 
beyond the narrow perspective of crisis management in 
an age where crises are turning out to be more and more 
unmanageable. At the sixth ministerial meeting of the 
Group of Friends of Mediation, which took place two 
weeks ago, we reaffirmed our commitment to address 
that need.
In  line  with  that  approach,  I  want  to  touch  very 
briefly  on  special  political  missions.  Such  missions 
should be seen as key mechanisms, given their proven 
relevance  and  cost  effectiveness  in  the  peaceful 
resolution of conflicts and the prevention of the relapse 
into  crises.  Let  me  therefore  reiterate  Turkey’s  firm 
conviction  that  adequate  funding  for  special  political 
missions,  as  well  as  a  clear-cut  definition  of  their 
mandates in any transitional process, must be ensured 
in order to strengthen their performance.
Fully  aware  of  the  divergent  opinions  among 
Member  States,  we  acknowledge 
the  difficulties 
impeding  concerted  action,  even  in  efforts  merely  to 
procedurally advance that agenda. However, we believe 
that it would be a big missed opportunity if the reports 
in  question  were  not  given  due  attention  and  if  they 
simply faded away owing to inaction. To the contrary, 
given the genuine interest among Member States, their 
consensual elements must be further examined with a 
sense of ownership. To that end, I would like to express 
Turkey’s readiness to support any course of action that 
will generate consensus.
Mr. Sauer (Finland): Finland aligns itself with the 
statement  made  earlier  today  by  the  observer  of  the 
European Union (see A/70/PV.29).
Today we have before us the excellent report of the 
High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations (see 
A/70/95), led by the former President of Timor-Leste, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  José  Ramos-Horta,  as  well  as  the 
follow-up  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/70/357). 
Fifteen  years  ago,  the  Brahimi  report  (see  A/55/305) 
introduced  the  concept  of  integrated  peacekeeping 
operations,  thereby  changing  the  very  nature  of 
peacekeeping.  Now  Mr.  Ramos-Horta  and  his  High-
level Panel are again shifting the United Nations peace 
and security landscape by elevating conflict prevention 
and  political  operations  to  the  fore,  together  with 
peacekeeping.  We  welcome  that  timely  approach.  We 
also commend the Secretary-General for appointing the 
High-level Panel to assist peace operations, not merely 
peacekeeping.
The  key  observation  of  the  Ramos-Horta  Panel 
is  the  paradigm  change.  First,  politics  have  primacy 
and  we  must  not  lose  sight  of  the  search  for  political 
solutions. Secondly, conflict prevention and mediation 
must be given renewed focus in United Nations peace 
operations.
Now we need to translate the findings of the High-
level Panel into practice. In doing so, we wish to recall 
two  existing  tools  in  the  United  Nations  peace  and 
security toolkit, namely, special political missions and 
mediation.  Special  political  missions  have  become  an 
integral  part  of  United  Nations  efforts  to  build  and 
maintain  peace.  However,  they  lack  the  financial  and 
administrative  support  needed  to  ensure  the  full  use 
of  their  potential.  We  have  to  adopt  a  comprehensive 
and balanced consensus solution to such problems. The 
United Nations also needs more sustainable and reliable 
resourcing  for  its  core  mediation  activities.  Investing 
in  prevention  and  mediation  is  a  wise  investment.  A 
dime  spent  on  prevention  today  can  save  us  a  dollar 
in  peacekeeping  in  the  future.  Even  more  important 
are  the  lives  that  effective  prevention  and  mediation 
efforts  can  save.  We  also  have  to  work  to  strengthen 
partnerships in the field of mediation.
I  would  also  like  to  stress  the  obvious  need  for 
the  participation  of  women  in  peace  processes  and 
peace operations. That is not just a question of gender 
equality;  there  is  undisputed  evidence  that  women’s 
participation contributes to the sustainability of peace.
In our view, the protection of civilians is clearly a 
core task in peacekeeping. United Nations peacekeepers 
must be ready and able to engage in robust action and 
use force, if that is needed, to protect innocent civilians 
and prevent further casualties. We need better planning 
and  analysis,  support  for  force-generation  processes, 
2/14 
15-31011
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.30
training  and  clear  command  structures.  Support 
practices need to be more field-focused, so as to ensure 
the  effective  delivery  of  mandated  tasks.  The  use  of 
modern  technology  can  help  to  protect  civilians  and 
improve the safety of troops. In rapidly changing and 
challenging  conflict  situations,  we  need  to  find  more 
agile, effective and innovative ways of doing business. 
Future operations should be more nimble and flexible, 
diverse and limited in length.
The  recent  cases  of  sexual  exploitation  and 
abuse have cast a shadow on the United Nations. It is 
unacceptable  that  those  who  wear  the  United  Nations 
colours  —  civilian  or  military  —  abuse  the  people 
they  are  sent  to  protect.  Both  the  United  Nations  and 
its Member States must take more robust measures to 
tackle  such  cases  and  make  the  zero-tolerance  policy 
into a zero-case reality. We commend both reports for 
addressing that issue.
The  three  ongoing  reviews  of  peace  operations, 
peacebuilding  and  Security  Council  resolution  1325 
(2000) offer us an excellent opportunity to rethink the 
United  Nations  peace  and  security  architecture.  That 
opportunity should be seized, and we need to strive for 
coherent implementation.
The  United  Nations,  with  its  structures  and  tools 
and  with  its  legitimacy,  is  uniquely  positioned  to 
play a central role in sustaining peace and preventing 
human  suffering  through  its  peace  operations.  It  is 
important now to sustain the momentum gained in the 
peace  operations  review  and  to  advance  the  process 
further, with a view to reaching results that can be put 
in practice. That calls for leadership from the current 
and future Secretaries-General and a sense of common 
purpose from his or her departments. It also calls for 
strong political commitment from Member States.
Mr.  Iliichev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian): We have studied with interest the conclusions 
and  work  of  the  High-level  Independent  Panel  on 
Peace Operations (see A/70/95), led by His Excellency 
Mr.  Ramos-Horta,  on  the  activities  of  peacekeeping 
operations  and  special  political  missions,  as  well 
as  the  recommendations  that  the  Secretary-General 
has  provided  in  that  regard.  We  think  that  document 
will  set  the  tone  for  developments  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping,  including  within  the  conceptual  and 
operational spheres.
We  share  the  conclusions  of  the  High-level  Panel 
that, in order to fully realize the potential and to improve 
the effectiveness of United Nations missions, we must 
have  reform  in  four  areas.  First,  we  must  strengthen 
the  political  tools  for  resolving  crisis  situations. 
Secondly, we must define the forms of United Nations 
intervention,  be  it  peacekeeping  operations  or  special 
political  missions, depending  on  the  situation  in  each 
specific  country.  Thirdly,  we  must  strengthen  global 
and regional cooperation in the maintenance of peace 
and security. Fourthly, we must reinforce the missions’ 
focus on the interests and needs of the populations in 
the  countries  where  they  are  deployed  through  closer 
dialogue with local communities.
We share the High-level Panel’s recommendations 
on  the  need  to  use  political  dialogue  as  a  priority 
measure  in  settling  conflict  situations  and  on  the 
importance  of  strengthening  regional  mechanisms  for 
settling crises. In modern times, it is necessary to also 
take  into  account  the  regional  dimension  of  conflicts 
and  the  transnational  nature  of  the  threat  when  an 
outbreak of violence in one country threatens to spill 
over  into  neighbouring  States,  or  even  into  the  whole 
region.  In  that  context,  it  is  important  to  develop  a 
format for cooperation among the countries of a region, 
as well as with regional and subregional organizations, 
including  exchanging  information  and  best  practices 
and providing resources with a view to ensuring quick 
and  effective  responses  to  existing  and  emerging 
challenges.
It is encouraging that the High-level Panel’s report 
has  confirmed  the  traditional  principles  of  United 
Nations  peacekeeping,  but  we  cannot  agree  with  the 
need, posited in the report, for flexible interpretations 
depending on the changing circumstances on the ground, 
above all in the context of the possible use of force by the 
Blue Helmets. Furthermore, we fully agree that United 
Nations peacekeeping forces should never be used for 
combating  terrorism  or  violent  extremism.  However, 
we believe that the set of issues relating to preventive 
measures, the principles of peacekeeping, the structural 
changes in the Secretariat and financial aspects require 
extremely close attention and substantive consideration 
by Member States, in particular within the framework 
of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations 
and the Fifth Committee.
We cannot allow a reduction in the role of Member 
States  with  regard  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
reform.  That  also  applies  to  the  use  and  reallocation 
of  human  and  financial  resources,  where  a  lack  of 
oversight by Member States could lead to a weakening 
15-31011
3/14
A/70/PV.30 
12/10/2015
of  budgetary  transparency  and  discipline  and  could 
negatively impact the quality of the delivery of Security 
Council mandates and the principles of neutrality and 
impartiality in the provision of services by the United 
Nations.
appoint  the  High-level  Panel  to  review  peacekeeping 
operations in all their aspects. That was indeed timely 
and important in the light of the changing political and 
security dynamics and the need to make peacekeeping 
operations fit for purpose.
We  believe  that  it  is  also  important  to  maintain 
a  balanced  approach  and  restrain  the  excessive  focus 
on  human  rights  issues,  including  references  to  the 
Secretary-General’s Human Rights Up Front initiative, 
and  to  gender  issues.  In  that  connection,  there  is 
nothing  to  be  gained  from  artificially  narrowing  the 
circle  of  troop-  and  police-contributing  countries, 
under various pretexts, including accusations of human 
rights violations. We must also approach with caution 
the  proposal  to  give  the  Secretariat  broader  powers 
in  its  recruitment  policy,  including  with  regard  to 
rapid  deployment  and  the  administration  of  civilian 
personnel.
We  remain  convinced  that  the  United  Nations 
presence,  regardless  of  what  form  it  takes,  must 
be  of  a  supportive  nature  and  provide  assistance 
to  host  countries  on  the  basis  of  the  priorities  set  by 
host  Governments  themselves.  In  that  context,  it  is 
imperative to establish constructive daily cooperation 
between  peacekeepers  and  local  authorities  and  to 
provide capacity-building support to host States.
With regard to improving strategic planning during 
the deployment of United Nations missions, we would 
like to note that, although the High-level Panel’s report 
and  the  Secretary-General’s  recommendations  do  not 
specifically  refer  to  the  Military  Staff  Committee, 
we  believe  that  stepping  up  that  body’s  activities  and 
conducting systematic analysis of the military-political 
situations  in  problematic  regions  of  the  world  could 
significantly increase the level of the Security Council’s 
military expertise.
We  intend,  for  our  part,  to  thoroughly  analyse 
and discuss in detail in intergovernmental forums the 
recommendations  of  the  Secretary-General,  including 
on  such  issues  as  improving  command  and  control 
functions, discipline and logistical support.
Mr. Alemu (Ethiopia): At the outset, I would like to 
thank you, Mr. President, for convening this debate on 
the review report of the High-level Independent Panel 
on Peace Operations (see A/70/95) and the Secretary-
General’s  implementation  report  (A/70/357).  Let  me 
take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  appreciation  to 
the  Secretary-General  for  taking  the  initiative  to 
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  remarks 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  Sierra  Leone  on 
behalf of the African States and by the representative 
of  Morocco  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
(see A/70/PV.29).
We  are  pleased  to  note  that  the  High-level  Panel 
conducted  wide-ranging  consultations,  both  in  New 
York  and  in  various  corners  of  the  world,  to  engage 
Member  States  and  other  relevant  stakeholders.  It  is 
in that context that consultations also took place at the 
headquarters of the African Union in Addis Ababa. 
No  doubt,  strengthening  the  cooperation  and 
partnership between the United Nations and the African 
Union in the area of peacekeeping is absolutely critical, 
as most of the United Nations peacekeeping operations 
are  deployed  in  the  African  continent.  That  is  why 
Africa came up with a common position on the review, 
and  we  are  happy  that  the  High-level  Panel  seriously 
took  into  account  the  views  and  concerns  of  Africa 
as  reflected  in  our  common  position.  We  commend 
the  Chair  of  the  High-level  Panel,  His  Excellency 
former  President  José  Ramos  Horta  of  Timor-Leste, 
and the members of the Panel for their hard work and 
the  important  recommendations  they  have  made  to 
strengthen United Nations peacekeeping operations in 
all  their  aspects.  They  did  so  in  a  wise  and  balanced 
manner,  taking  into  account  the  various  views  and 
concerns of Member States.
The implementation of those recommendations is the 
key to achieving the objective of strengthening United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  in  a  comprehensive 
manner. Accordingly, we find ourselves at an important 
juncture in the evolution of the role played by the United 
Nations in discharging its responsibilities for regional 
and global peace and security. That is why we thank the 
Secretary-General  for  presenting  his  implementation 
report, which should be considered holistically together 
with the High-level Panel’s report.
Not  only  are  we  considering  the  review  and  the 
implementation report 15 years after the Brahimi report 
(see A/55/305) and at a time when we are marking the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  our  Organization,  but  we 
are also doing so at a very opportune time in that we 
4/14 
15-31011
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.30
have  entered  into  a  morally  binding  commitment  to 
eradicate extreme poverty in 15 years and to be faithful 
to a transformative agenda, which is embodied in the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1).
There is no better way to lay a firm foundation for 
the realization of the 2030 Agenda than to carry forward 
the reform of United Nations peace operations. Peace 
and development can never be conceived separately, as 
the history of Africa, including that of my own country, 
Ethiopia,  makes  abundantly  clear,  as  neither  can 
succeed  without  respect  for  human  rights.  However, 
they  must  not  be  politicized.  Double  standards  will 
never help us to make progress in any area. They will 
only impede what we need most, namely, the building 
of mutual trust and mutual confidence.
In  conclusion,  permit  me  to  say  that  we  have 
been  encouraged  by  what  we  witnessed  during  the 
summit on peacekeeping, where Member States made 
strong  commitments  to  strengthen  United  Nations 
peacekeeping.  We  need  to  sustain  that  momentum  as 
we embark on the important phase of implementation. 
It is in that spirit that we look forward to the discussion 
that  will  take  place  in  the  various  intergovernmental 
committees  to  examine  the  reports  of  the  High-level 
Panel and of the Sectary-General.
Mr.  Bosah  (Nigeria):  The  Nigerian  delegation 
congratulates  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  election  to 
steer the affairs of the General Assembly in this historic 
period marking the seventieth year of the inception of 
the  United  Nations.  We  commend  your  initiative  to 
convene this meeting, which affords us an opportunity 
to  share  views  on  strengthening  the  United  Nations 
system.
We are especially thankful for the presentation by 
the  Secretary-General  (see  A/70/PV.29)  of  his  report 
(A/70/357) containing his proposals for implementing 
the  recommendations  of  the  High-level  Independent 
Panel  on  Peace  Operations.  The  insights  that  his 
presentation has afforded us bears out the wisdom and 
importance of this discourse.
At  the  outset,  let  me  state  that  Nigeria  aligns 
itself  with  the  statements  made  this  morning  by  the 
representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of the African 
States and by the representative of Morocco on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement (see A/70/PV.29).
As  we  take  stock  of  the  activities  and  reflect  on 
the efforts of the United Nations to meet the challenges 
confronting the global community, we note the innovative 
events coinciding with the seventieth anniversary of the 
inception of the United Nations. Those events include 
the transition from the Millennium Development Goals 
to the post-2015 development agenda, as set out in the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1), the proposals for the revitalization of the General 
Assembly and the reform of the Security Council and 
the review of the United Nations peace operations and 
the peacebuilding architecture.
I  would  like  to  share  our  perspective  on  the 
recent  review  of  United  Nations  peace  operations 
undertaken  by  the  High-level  Independent  Panel  on 
Peace Operations. That review is opportune given the 
increased  number  of  conflicts  and  new  challenges  in 
peacekeeping  since  the  last  significant  assessment  of 
United  Nations  peace  operations  was  conducted  in 
2000  under  the  chairmanship  of  Lakhdar  Brahimi  of 
Algeria.  We  commend  the  extensive  consultations 
undertaken  by  the  High-level  Panel,  which  has  led  to 
the broad acceptance of its report (see A/70/95).
Efforts  to  meet  the  new  challenges  facing  United 
Nations  peace  operations  should  draw  from  the  array 
of suggestions raised in the High-level Panel’s report, 
including  lessons  learned  from  past  and  present 
peacekeeping operations. The ultimate goal should be to 
create resilience by identifying the conditions for peace 
operations that will effectively meet the challenges on 
the ground.
As  the  majority  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations  have  been  deployed  in  Africa,  Nigeria 
welcomes  the  High-level  Panel’s  recommendations 
aimed  at  enhancing 
the  cooperative  relationship 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  African  Union 
(AU). Partnership is indeed the cornerstone of Africa’s 
effort to stabilize its vast region and shoulder its share 
of  the  global  responsibility  to  maintain  peace  and 
security.
It is important to highlight the funding challenges 
facing  the  African  Union,  as  well  as  the  need  for  the 
United  Nations  to  assume  the  primary  responsibility 
for  the  African  Union-led  operations  initiated  as 
bridging measures. That should not be misunderstood 
as  unwillingness  on  the  part  of  the  African  Union 
to  manage  its  own  operations.  Rather,  it  is  an 
acknowledgement that today’s armed conflicts require 
complex, nuanced and often high-technology responses 
that demand a particular level of infrastructure that the 
AU simply cannot afford. The need for support does not 
15-31011
5/14
A/70/PV.30 
12/10/2015
amount  to  dependency.  Instead,  it  must  be  viewed  as 
a vital partnership in the global quest for maintaining 
international peace and security.
In that regard, we welcome the High-level Panel’s 
recommendations regarding the use of United Nations-
assessed  contributions  on  a  case-by-case  basis  to 
support  Security  Council-authorized  African  Union 
support operations, including the costs associated with 
deployed uniformed personnel to complement funding 
from the African Union and/or African Member States. 
We  also  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  decision 
to  prioritize  the  implementation  of  the  High-level 
Panel’s  recommendation  regarding  the  development 
of  stronger  regional-global  partnerships.  That  will 
require  improving  institutional  collaboration  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  AU  by  going  beyond 
context-specific  to  more  predictable  mechanisms  for 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations.  African 
nations can, and should, leverage the reforms to create 
the requisite stability and social order and to advance 
their developmental goals.
Significant  importance  has  been  given  to  the 
protection  of  civilians  in  conflict  areas.  However, 
the  different  operating  methods  of 
the  mission 
components — military, police and civilian — involved 
in the protection of civilians in conflict environments 
raise a number of issues. The autonomy to act and make 
decisions differs greatly among the components in the 
light of their different mandates, standard operational 
procedures, agendas and rules of engagement. Hence, 
there  is  the  crucial  need  for  strategic  coordination 
among  the  various  mission  components  for  effective 
delivery  on 
the  protection-of-civilians  mandate. 
That  can  be  achieved  through  the  development  of 
comprehensive  training  on  strategic  coordination  for 
the protection of civilians for all mission components. 
It  is  also  expedient  that  greater  attention  be  given  to 
coherence among mission components.
We  welcome  the  High-level  Panel’s  suggestions 
underscoring the significance of protective measures to 
be adopted by local communities for the protection of 
vulnerable  persons  in  conflict  zones.  We  call  for  the 
development  of  strategies  that  reinforce  those  efforts 
and ensure that national institutions are empowered to 
enable the discharge of their primary responsibility to 
strengthen security and the rule of law in post-conflict 
areas.
The tenuous stability and evolution in many post-
conflict  States  underscore  the  need  for  invigorated 
to  ensure  stability 
efforts and concrete measures to prevent a relapse into 
crisis. In that regard, we appreciate the significance of 
the continued reforms undertaken by the Peacebuilding 
Commission 
in  post-conflict 
settings. The 2015 review process would benefit from 
taking  note  of  the  peacebuilding  efforts  in  Africa. 
Lessons  may  be  drawn  from  the  accomplishments  in 
reforms  in  the  security  sector  and  the  justice  sector, 
food  security,  domestic  resource  mobilization,  the 
curbing of illicit financial flows and the negotiation of 
balanced natural-resource contracts.
In conclusion, I wish to reaffirm Nigeria’s abiding 
commitment to the tenets of the United Nations and its 
persustent  efforts  towards  ensuring  global  peace  and 
security.
Mr.  Dalo  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  presenting  his  report 
(A/70/357) on the implementation of the measures set 
out  in  the  report  of  the  High-level  Independent  Panel 
on  Peace  Operations  (see  A/70/95).  We  hope  to  have 
an opportunity to discuss those reports together in the 
framework of the discussions in the Fourth Committee, 
and 
the  Special  Committee  on 
Peacekeeping Operations, and in the Fifth Committee 
with  regard  to  their  administrative  and  budgetary 
aspects.
in  particular 
in 
Argentina welcomes the recommendations contained 
in  the  report  of  the  High-level  Panel,  led  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  José  Ramos-Horta.  While  we  may 
differ  on  certain  points,  we  recognize  that  they  are 
part of a balanced perspective reflecting the differing 
positions  taken  by  the  various  parties  with  regard  to 
the  many  topics  covered  by  peacekeeping  operations 
and  special  political  missions,  defined  as  a  whole  as 
peace  operations.  With  that  in  mind,  we  underscore 
the  scope  of  the  consultations  that  were  held  and  the 
independence  and  intellectual  honesty  that  the  High-
level  Panel’s  members  and  the  Secretariat  team  have 
shown,  and  we  congratulate  them  on  their  important 
work.
The  High-level  Panel’s  report  is  extensive  and 
specific on each of the issues that it deals with, so I will 
refer only briefly to some issues to which my country 
attaches particular importance.
First, we agree with the general perspective of the 
report  aimed  at  giving  greater  importance  to  conflict 
prevention, mediation and the use of political tools in 
the design and implementation of peacekeeping tools. In 
6/14 
15-31011
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.30
that connection, the Secretariat’s efforts for prevention 
and mediation should be strengthened through a better 
allocation of resources in the regular budget.
Moreover,  we  thank  the  High-level  Panel  for 
having  assumed  the  responsibility  of  addressing  the 
delicate  issue  of  the  use  of  force  in  peacekeeping 
operations.  We  believe  that  the  three  key  principles 
of  such  operations  —  the  consent  of  the  parties, 
impartiality,  and  the  use  of  force  in  self-defence  and 
to  defend  the  mandate  —  should  continue  to  be  the 
guide for the success of the missions, without being an 
obstacle to acting, in extreme cases, for the protection 
of civilians and to defend the mission. In that context, 
a  clear  understanding  of  the  rules  of  engagement  and 
a  deepening  of  the  triangular  cooperation  among 
the  Security  Council,  the  Secretariat  and  the  troop- 
and  police-contributing  countries  are  essential.  We 
also  emphasize  that  extreme  caution  must  be  used  in 
assigning  exceptional  peace-enforcement 
to 
peacekeeping  operations,  as  we  are  aware  that  they 
were  not  designed  or  trained  for  such  purposes.  We 
also agree with the High-level Panel that peacekeeping 
operations should not be involved in counterterrorism 
tasks.
tasks 
in  which 
Another  area 
the  High-level  Panel 
has  made  a  valuable  contribution  is  the  protection 
of  civilians  in  peacekeeping  operations.  There  was 
agreement  not  to  consider  that  issue  from  a  purely 
military  perspective,  but  from  a  broader  political 
and  humanitarian  perspective  focused  on  creating  an 
atmosphere of safety and security in which force would 
be used only in extreme cases to avoid a repetition of 
sad experiences such as those of Srebrenica or Rwanda, 
and  as  a  last  resort  following  the  failure  of  other 
non-military  alternatives.  We  share  the  High-level 
Panel’s  recommendation  aimed  at  giving  top  priority 
to  strategies  not  requiring  force  for  the  protection  of 
civilians, and we underscore the need to work together 
with the authorities of host States and with humanitarian 
organizations, which are carrying out important work 
on the ground. Furthermore, in line with the High-level 
Panel, we assert that the delicate task of the protection of 
civilians by participating contingents in peacekeeping 
missions  requires  special  training  and  equipment,  for 
which appropriate financial resources are required.
My delegation attaches vital importance to the task 
of  promoting  and  protecting  human  rights,  since  we 
are dealing with an increasing number of peacekeeping 
operations.  We  agree  with  the  High-level  Panel’s 
recommendations  regarding  the  integration  of  human 
rights concerns into such missions, in particular so that 
the Secretariat can have resources to recruit and deploy 
specialized  personnel  in  the  field  during  the  early 
stages of the missions to provide support to the human 
rights components and special envoys.
We also support all measures aimed at implementing 
the agenda on women and peace and security, pursuant 
to  Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000),  and  at 
strengthening  measures  to  combat  cases  of  sexual 
abuse and exploitation in peacekeeping operations.
and 
support 
Finally, I wish to address the issue of the financing 
of special political missions. It is worth remembering 
that both the Secretariat and the Advisory Committee 
on  Administrative  and  Budgetary  Questions  have 
recommended timely measures to improve the funding 
arrangements 
from  Headquarters, 
including the establishment of a specific and separate 
fund  for  special  political  missions.  We  welcome  the 
High-level  Panel’s  recommendation,  also  contained 
in  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  calling  for  the 
immediate  implementation  of  those  measures,  which 
will  increase  the  efficiency  and  transparency  of  the 
budgetary process of the entire Organization, not only 
for the missions referred to.
I  conclude  by  emphasizing  once  again  the  work 
accomplished by the High-level Panel and the relevance 
of  its  recommendations.  The  responsibility  now  falls 
upon  us,  the  Member  States,  with  the  Secretariat’s 
assistance,  to  work  in  harmony  and  transform  those 
recommendations  into  concrete  measures  that  will 
achieve  effective  results  for  the  work  of  the  120,000 
peacekeepers,  various  personnel  and 
the  special 
political  missions  on  the  ground  and,  above  all,  in 
shaping  the  reality  and  the  destiny  of  the  countries 
where they are deployed.
Mr.  Rycroft  (United  Kingdom):  The  United 
Kingdom is committed to supporting the United Nations 
peace  operations  architecture.  I  hope  that  we  can  all 
work  together  to  ensure  the  continual  improvements 
in the United Nations ability to deliver in this crucial 
field. 
The  demand  for  effective  United  Nations  peace 
operations  has  never  been  greater.  That  is  why  the 
United  Kingdom  warmly  welcomed  the  Secretary-
General’s  announcement  last  year  of  an  independent 
panel  to  conduct  a  comprehensive  review  of  United 
Nations  peace  operations.  The  review  has  been  an 
15-31011
7/14
A/70/PV.30 
12/10/2015
immensely valuable exercise. We commend the report of 
the High-level Independent Panel on Peace Operations 
(see  A/70/95)  and  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s 
response (A/70/357). We must take the opportunity now 
to push ahead with the vital reforms outlined.
Some  of  the  recommendations  in  the  report  may 
increase the United Nations peacekeeping budget. We 
are prepared to pay more for better peacekeeping, but 
we  must  avoid  duplication,  streamline  processes  and 
sharpen mandates. Peace operations must be efficient 
and effective. The United Kingdom has three priorities 
for reform, and we want to see rapid action on each of 
them. 
First is better protection of civilians. We need more 
transparency  and  accountability  where  missions  have 
failed to protect civilians, so that we can learn from our 
mistakes and ensure that missions have the capabilities 
and the training to deliver. We support the Secretary-
General’s intentions to initiate regular reporting to the 
Security  Council  on  risks  posed  to  civilians  and  on 
any  capability  gaps  that  might  impede  the  protection 
of civilians. We support full disclosure to the Council 
of  protection-of-civilian  failures,  and  we  support 
the  appointment  of  protection-of-civilian  advisers  in 
missions.
We  were  pleased  to  see  the  prominence  given    to 
women and peace and security, especially as we look 
forward to tomorrow’s high-level review in the Security 
Council. We must ensure that women are part of political 
and  protection  solutions.  This  is  not  about  sectioning 
off  women’s  issues  and  placing  them  in  a  separate 
category  when  managing  or  addressing  conflict;  it  is 
about an integrated approach. We therefore endorse the 
Secretary-General’s  call  for  all  senior  United  Nations 
staff  to  have  specific  job-performance  indicators 
on  gender  and  on  women  and  peace  and  security, 
against  which  they  should  be  held  accountable.  We 
also  encourage  the  Secretariat  to  establish  immediate 
response  teams  to  gather  and  preserve  evidence  of 
sexual exploitation and abuse for use in investigations, 
which should be completed within six months. On that 
note, we fully support the Secretary-General’s position 
on  the  recent  allegations  of  sexual  exploitation  and 
abuse.  States  must  take  action.  Zero  tolerance  means 
zero tolerance.
Our second priority is better planning of missions 
and more targeted and focused mandating. The United 
Kingdom is committed to supporting the Secretariat in 
improving the way missions are planned and deployed. 
We are encouraged by the Secretary-General’s plans to 
establish a new strategic analysis and planning capacity. 
That  unit  will  draw  together  expertise  across  the 
Secretariat and offer the strategic planning focal point 
that United Nations peace operations need. We must get 
better at understanding the situation on the ground, and 
we must be clear on what we want and on what we can 
achieve  before  we  start  mandating  new  missions.  We 
must heed the advice that peace operations are led from 
the  field  and  that  policies  and  processes  support  that 
approach rather than work against it.
Our  third  priority  is  a  more  strategic  approach 
to  force  generation.  The  United  Kingdom  supports 
calls  for  a  more  flexible  approach  to  deployments, 
embracing offers of specific technical assistance from 
Member States. As my Prime Minister, David Cameron, 
announced  at  the  leaders’  summit  on  peacekeeping, 
the  United  Kingdom  will  make  additional  military 
deployments to the United Nations Support Office for 
the African Union Mission in Somalia and the United 
Nations  Mission  in  South  Sudan.  Those  pledges  are 
part  of  the  United  Kingdom’s  commitment  to  playing 
a  greater  role  in  supporting  United  Nations  peace 
operations. We also fully endorse the establishment of 
the Strategic Force Generation and Capability Planning  
Cell  in  the  Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations. 
The  United  Kingdom  has  provided  donor  support  to 
the Cell and would encourage other Member States to 
do likewise. Following the many generous pledges we 
heard last week, there is much work for the new Cell to 
do so as to ensure that there is a smooth transition from 
pledges to deployments.
Our top three priorities are, then, the protection of 
civilians, planning and mandating, and force generation. 
I would like to conclude by noting the great work 
done  by  the  more  than  100,000  peacekeepers  and 
mission  staff  across  the  world  and  by  honouring  the 
sacrifices  that  so  many  have  made  in  the  quest  for 
peace.  Let  us  work  together  to  make  United  Nations 
peace operations the best that they can be. The United 
Kingdom is ready and willing to play its part.
Mr. Oh Joon (Republic of Korea): My delegation 
thanks  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
convening  this  timely  debate.  We  also  thank  the 
Secretary-General for his comprehensive briefing this 
morning  (see  A/70/PV.29),  as  well  as  for  his  report 
(A/70/357), which has set out an agenda for the future 
8/14 
15-31011
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.30
of  United  Nations  peace  operations,  based  on  the 
recommendations of the High-level Independent Panel 
on Peace Operations (see A/70/95)
The Republic of Korea shares the view, set out in 
the  Secretary-General’s  report,  that  the  world  today 
urgently  needs  new  and  stronger  ways  to  address  the 
international peace and security challenges. We strongly 
support  the  idea  that,  when  designed  and  conducted 
in  more  people-focused  and  targeted  ways  —  in 
other  words,  fit  for  purpose  —  United  Nations  peace 
operations  can  make  a  significant  contribution  to 
addressing the ever more complex challenges facing the 
international community. As a Member State that was 
aided by United Nations forces when our own peace and 
security were threatened 65 years ago, the Republic of 
Korea is fully committed to maintaining international 
peace and security together with United Nations peace 
operations.
In that vein, we are a consistent supporter of United 
Nations peace operations around the world today, in terms 
of both troop deployment and financial contributions to 
the budget for peacekeeping operations. The Republic 
of Korea is a member of the Peacebuilding Commission, 
through which our contribution to conflict prevention 
continues  to  increase.  Two  weeks  ago,  my  President 
participated  in  the  leaders’  summit  on  peacekeeping 
and  made  pledges  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations, including a new assistance package to the 
African Union to enhance its peacekeeping capacities.
the 
Secretary-General on United Nations peace operations, 
we believe that it will be essential for Member States to 
sustain the political momentum for the implementation 
of  the  recommendations  made  in  the  reports,  as  well 
as  to  build  on  synergies  with  the  parallel  reviews  on 
peacebuilding  architecture  and  the  implementation  of 
Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), on women and 
peace and security. 
the  aforementioned  report  of 
Regarding 
To  that  end,  I  am  happy  to  inform  the  Assembly 
that  the  Republic  of  Korea  is  organizing  an  expert 
meeting in Seoul later this month to develop and refine 
a  practical  and  shared  understanding  of  key  aspects 
of  the  reform  agenda  with  regard  to  peace  operations 
and  to  start  thinking  about  a  way  forward  for  its 
implementation. We hope that that meeting will make a 
meaningful contribution to the ongoing discussions on 
peace operations for the remainder of this year.
Mr.  Petersen  (Denmark):  Denmark  aligns  itself 
with the statement made by the observer of the European 
Union earlier today (see A/70/PV.29). Please allow me 
to make a few additional comments.
the  reports  represent  a  very 
In today’s world, the need for strong and effective 
United Nations peace operations has never been greater, 
and Denmark welcomes the review of such operations 
initiated by the Secretary-General last year. Denmark 
fully supports the report of the High-level Independent 
Panel  on  Peace  Operations  (see  A/70/95)  and  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  implementation  of 
the  High-level  Panel’s  recommendations  (A/70/357). 
Combined, 
timely, 
comprehensive  and  relevant  basis  for  reforming  and 
strengthening  our  common  efforts  at  a  time  when  we 
are faced with ever more complex security crises and 
threats.  To  counter  those  growing  challenges,  more 
needs  to  be  done.  United  Nations  peace  operations 
remain  absolutely  essential  in  the  world  of  today. 
Coherence  must  be  a  guiding  principle  in  our  reform 
effort.  The  peace  operations  review  must  be  seen  in 
connection  with  the  review  of  the  implementation  of 
Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), on women and 
peace and security and the peacebuilding architecture 
review (see A/69/968).
Support  for  United  Nations  peace  operations  has 
been and will continue to be a central pillar of Denmark’s 
foreign policy. We have been actively participating in 
several United Nations peace operations as well as in 
capacity-building  missions  in  countries  affected  by 
conflict  and  fragility.  Our  development  cooperation 
seeks  to  contribute  to  stability  and  development  and 
thus  ultimately  to  prevent  conflicts  from  evolving  in 
the first place. 
During  the  high-level  thematic  debate  on  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  two 
weeks  ago,  my  Government  announced  its  intention 
to make a number of new commitments to supporting 
United Nations peace operations.
First,  we  have  offered  to  deploy  a  military 
contribution  to  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) 
in order to address critical shortfalls there, as well as a 
police contribution to the same force of up to 12 officers. 
Denmark  is  also  planning  to  make  a  $3  million 
contribution  to  trust  funds  managed  by  MINUSMA 
aimed at facilitating, among other things, the provision 
of quick impact projects for the population. Secondly, 
15-31011
9/14
A/70/PV.30 
12/10/2015
we have offered to make a contribution of $1.5 million 
towards  improving  and  strengthening  United  Nations 
efforts to protect civilians in peace operations, including 
predeployment training of troops focused on effective 
mandate  implementation.  Thirdly,  we  have  offered  a 
core contribution of $2.7 million to the Department of 
Political Affairs for the next three-year period.
Denmark  fully  agrees  with  the  High-level  Panel 
and the Secretary-General that the United Nations role 
in conflict prevention, mediation and the provision of 
political  solutions  to  conflicts  must  be  strengthened 
as  an  integral  element  in  a  coherent  United  Nations 
approach to peace operations.
We  fully  support  the  Secretary-General’s  call  for 
the General Assembly to take early action in response 
to the report’s recommendations. In our work over the 
coming  months,  our  ultimate  goal  must  be  to  ensure 
that the United Nations can effectively provide security 
in  the  world  of  today.  That  means  ensuring  that  the 
United Nations has the right instruments at its disposal 
for  addressing  today’s  difficult  security  situation. 
We  must  take  an  honest  look  at  the  shortcomings 
and  inefficiencies  of  the  current  peace  and  security 
architecture  and  carry  forward  bold  and  ambitious 
reforms.
Mr. Makharoblishvili (Georgia): Georgia welcomes 
the report of the High-level Independent Panel on Peace 
Operations (see A/70/95) as a timely effort to provide 
a  comprehensive  assessment  of  the  United  Nations 
experience  in  peace  operations.  We  hope  that  today’s 
discussion  will  make  a  positive  contribution  to  the 
successful  streamlining  of  the  United  Nations  peace 
operations agenda.
Georgia  experienced  the  unfortunate  termination 
of  the  United  Nations  Observer  Mission  in  Georgia 
(UNOMIG), which played a crucial role in maintaining 
peace and stability in the Georgian region of Abkhazia, 
by a single veto exercised by a permanent member of 
the Security Council in the spring of 2009. That action 
set a dangerous precedent in the history of the United 
Nations. There is therefore a need to analyse the case 
of UNOMIG, including its successes and shortcomings, 
so  as  to  provide  the  United  Nations  community  with 
the appropriate lessons learned and to identify possible 
tools  needed  for  the  Organization  to  avoid  similar 
failures  in  the  future.  The  abolition  of  that  important 
United  Nations  Mission  was  used  by  a  permanent 
member of the Security Council as a means to achieve 
its expansionist geopolitical goals.
Despite  extensive  consultations  on  all  levels  at 
the  United  Nations  and  elsewhere,  on  15  June  2009 
the  Security  Council  failed  to  extend  the  mandate  of 
UNOMIG for another term, as Russia vetoed a rollover 
draft  resolution  aimed  at  providing  more  time  for 
negotiations on a new mandate. Nearly six years later, 
there  is  no  adequate  replacement  for  that  dismantled 
international  presence,  namely, 
its  main  pillars: 
UNOMIG  and  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation in Europe mission in Georgia. And while 
the European Union Monitoring Mission continues its 
duties, further efforts to provide an independent, neutral 
and effective international presence on the ground for 
the purpose of peacekeeping has proven unsuccessful 
so far.
UNOMIG  represents  a  unique  case  in  the  history 
of the United Nations when a mission was terminated 
permanently,  prematurely  and  against  the  will  of  the 
host nation prior to the achievement of the main goals 
set out in its mandate. Nevertheless, a comprehensive 
analysis  of  the  causes  and  consequences  of  that 
unfortunate  development  has  never  been  made  in  the 
United Nations. The presence of UNOMIG in Georgia 
was in accordance with Chapter VI of the Charter of the 
United  Nations,  and  the  deployment  of  peacekeepers 
from  the  Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  (CIS)
peacekeeping  force,  with 
the  Security  Council’s 
authorization,  was  conducted  in  accordance  with 
Chapter VIII of the Charter, as peacekeeping involving 
regional  organizations  acting  in  cooperation  with  the 
United Nations civilian monitors.
it  has  reaffirmed 
Each  time  the  Security  Council  has  adopted 
a  resolution  on  Georgia, 
the 
commitment  of  all  Member  States  to  supporting  the 
sovereignty,  independence  and  territorial  integrity  of 
Georgia within its internationally recognized borders, 
and  reiterated  the  fundamental  right  of  return  for  all 
refugees and internally displaced persons to Abkhazia, 
Georgia and their individual property rights. 
Unfortunately,  UNOMIG’s  role    was  limited  to 
monitoring the CIS forces. The latter entity, consisting 
exclusively  of  Russian  military  personnel,  violated 
the  acceptable  principles  of  peacekeeping  outlined 
by  Secretary-General’s  1994  report  (S/1994/253).  The 
report required that the regional force, under Chapter 
VII  of  the  Charter,  show  respect  for  the  sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity  of  Georgia,  the  consent  of 
the  parties,  impartiality,  an  international  character, 
a  clear  mandate,  transparency,  an  integral  link  to  a 
10/14 
15-31011
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.30
political process for the resolution of the conflict and 
a plan for orderly withdrawal. Nonetheless, the Russian 
Federation,  by  hijacking  the  peacekeeping  part  of  the 
United Nations mandate, has been in serious material 
breach of all those requirements for years. 
Unfortunately,  Georgia’s  every  proposal  aimed 
at  making  the  CIS  modus  operandi  multinational, 
transparent,  impartial  and  accountable  —  that  is, 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Secretary-
General’s 1994 report — was met with fierce objection 
by the Russian Federation. While the political segment 
of the United Nations operation in Georgia in the form 
of  UNOMIG  was  highly  effective  and  acted  strictly 
in  accordance  with  its  mandate,  as  outlined  in  the 
Secretary-General’s  report,  the  peacekeeping  part  of 
the operation, formally the CIS peacekeeping force but 
in reality a Russian military force, was extensively used 
by the Russian Federation to serve its geopolitical ends. 
The most significant demonstration of that conclusion 
was the transformation of the CIS peacekeeping force 
into  a  Russian  occupation  force,  in  itself  a  unique 
precedent in United Nations history, and the continued 
illegal  Russian  military  occupation  of  Georgian 
territories, including the Abkhaz region.
In the light of that experience, here are some of our 
recommendations. 
the 
First, 
effectiveness  of  monitoring  of 
peacekeeping  and  other  stabilizing  institutions  and 
arrangements  depends  on  the  trust  and  confidence  in 
which they are held by the parties to the conflict. No 
party to the conflict, or party that is considered to be 
strongly supportive of any of the sides, should assume 
a  position  of  command  or  serve  as  chair  or  arbiter  or 
exercise any other control of an operation that depends 
on the notions of impartiality and even-handedness in 
order to be effective.
Secondly,  particular  attention  has  to  be  paid  to 
the  ability  of  the  international  community  to  adjust 
the  relevant  security  arrangements  to  the  changing 
environment, as the needs on the ground may change 
with new developments. The international community 
must be prepared to reassess, readjust and reinforce the 
stabilizing arrangements and institutions that were put 
in place during or immediately after the crisis situation.
Thirdly, special attention must be paid and support 
extended  to  the  affected  Member  States,  which, 
as  they  evolve  into  able  and  responsible  players  in 
the  international  arena,  should  be  assisted  in  their 
transformation  from  mere  recipients  of  security  to 
providers  of  security  in  all  its  dimensions,  including 
human rights and development.
Mr.  Rivas  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  First 
of  all,  I  would  like  to  thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for 
organizing  today’s  meeting,  which  enables  us  to 
exchange  points  of  view,  especially  on  the  reports  on 
peacekeeping  operations,  and  to  than  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  presentation  this  morning  (see  A/70/
PV.29).  My  delegation  is  also  grateful  to  the  High-
level  Independent  Panel  on  Peace  Operations  and 
the  Secretary-General  for  their  respective  reports 
(see  A/70/95  and  A/70/357).  They  represent  a  key 
contribution  to  the  intergovernmental  discussions  to 
be held. In that connection, we believe that discussions 
in  the  relevant  forums  on  the  reviews  of  resolution 
1325  (2000),  of  peacekeeping  operations  and  of  the 
peacebuilding architecture should be carried out with 
a  holistic  focus  that  establishes  synergies  among  the 
various processes.
Uruguay,  as  a  troop-contributing  country,  notes 
with  particular  interest  the  processes  under  way. 
We  recently  co-hosted  the  summit  on  peacekeeping 
operations,  at  which  we  committed  to  making  more 
concrete contributions to the system, including, to use 
just one example, a mechanized infantry company. We 
also  support  the  Kigali  Principles  on  the  Protection 
of  Civilians  —  the  outcome  of  the  International 
Conference on the Protection of Civilians, organized by 
Rwanda last May — because the protection of civilians 
is so important today for maintaining the physical and 
moral  integrity  of  people  during  conflict  situations, 
especially the most vulnerable.
Our  troops  have  been  protecting  civilians  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  for  a  number  of 
years.  From  our  experience  on  the  ground,  we  know 
that that is one of the activities that brings the United 
Nations closest to local populations suffering from the 
impact of violence. Uruguay is strongly committed to 
the zero-tolerance policy in cases of sexual exploitation 
and  abuse  and  therefore  recently  approved  a  protocol 
for action in dealing with reports of sexual abuse and 
exploitation and paternity communicated by the United 
Nations  that  was  considered  by  a  disciplinary  unit 
as  a  model  for  other  States  to  follow.  That  protocol 
seeks  to  provide  guarantees,  responses  and  support 
to  persons  who  have  been  victims  of  situations  of 
sexual  exploitation  and  abuse  because  of  the  possible 
misconduct of Uruguayan forces. A focal point has been 
15-31011
11/14
A/70/PV.30 
12/10/2015
appointed within the Uruguayan Foreign Ministry for 
the treatment and handling of possible cases of sexual 
exploitation  and  abuse,  and  we  have  also  appointed  a 
focal point on the ground for any such cases that could 
occur.
Given  our  commitment  to  peacekeeping,  we  will 
make the most of the opportunity and the momentum 
to  engage  in  discussions  in  the  appropriate  forums 
with a view to improving the efficiency to the system. 
Uruguay will continue to bring its constructive vision 
to the General Assembly, and also, if the membership 
so decides, on 15 October, to the Security Council for 
the period 2016-2017.
Mr. Van der Vliet (Netherlands): The Netherlands 
aligns itself with the statement delivered by the observer 
for the European Union and its member States earlier 
today. 
The  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  is  grateful  for 
the  Secetary-General’s  initiative  last  year  calling  for 
a review of the way the United Nations does business 
when it comes to its peace operations. We welcomed the 
subsequent establishment of the High-level Independent 
Panel on Peace Operations under the able leadership of 
Mr. Ramos-Horta, and we have actively supported the 
work of the Panel.
Today’s  debate  in  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
High-level  Panel’s  report  on  United  Nations  peace 
operations  (see  A/70/95)  and  the  Secretary-General’s 
implementation report (A/70/357) is very timely. With 
conflicts on the rise and more refugees and internally 
displaced people than ever, we need a United Nations 
that  can  deal  with  the  demands  of  today.  Successful 
peace operations in a broad sense are the core of what 
the United Nations is expected to deliver in that regard. 
We endorse the valuable and concrete recommendations 
in  the  report  of  the  High-level  Independent  Panel  on 
Peace  Operations,  and  we  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s report, which sets firm and specific priorities 
for  conflict  prevention,  partnerships,  planning  and 
the support of peace operations. Let me highlight four 
aspects.
the  United  Nations  then  fails  to  deliver  on  its  core 
business. The Security Council and the States Members 
of the United Nations should respond more consistently 
and more proactively to requests for support to protect 
civilians  and  should  engage  at  an  earlier  stage  of 
conflict  prevention.  Also,  a  comprehensive  approach 
and close coordination with the relevant actors, such as 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
of Human Rights, are essential. The firm and proactive 
commitment  of  all  involved  to  working  closely  with 
local  communities,  non-governmental  organizations 
and  especially  with  women  is  equally  essential.  We 
witnessed  that  ourselves  during  the  training  at  the 
European Union Police Mission in Afghanistan.
Secondly,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s 
proposals  regarding  the  further  institutionalization  of 
and more integrated approaches by regional and global 
partnerships,  in  particular  with  regard  to  the  African 
Union.
Thirdly,  it  is  particularly  urgent  for  the  United 
Nations, with the support of Member States, to improve 
the  planning  and  implementation  of  mandates  and 
missions. We need a comprehensive approach, including 
close consultation with troop- and police-contributing 
countries.  The  Security  Council  has  an  important 
responsibility in this regard. We also need field-based, 
flexible  and  people-centred  missions,  with  strong 
leaders and well-trained troops.
Fourthly, numerous conferences on and reviews of 
the women and peace and security agenda have taken 
place. The time for the implementation of that agenda 
has come. We all have a responsibility here.
The  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  are 
also  responsible  for  international  peace  and  security. 
The  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  has  been  and 
remains an active partner worldwide, helping to build 
a  safer,  more  peaceful  and  more  sustainable  world. 
Since  1947,  our  country  has  been  involved  in  more 
than  60  United  Nations-mandated  missions  in  over 
30  countries,  deploying  more  than  125,000  men  and 
women.
The  first  priority  should  be  better  protection 
of  civilians  in  situations  of  conflict.  The  effective 
protection of civilians is what should make the headlines. 
Lack of protection — or worse, crimes being committed 
by  peacekeepers  —  is  detrimental  to  the  reputation 
of the United Nations and to the people involved, not 
because it harms the Organization’s image, but because 
In  2013,  the  Netherlands  returned  to  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  with  a  large  and  innovative 
contribution  to  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in  Mali,  focusing  on 
high-value  intelligence  capabilities.  Our  contribution 
consists  of  450  military  personnel,  who  are  working 
on  the  Mission’s  intelligence  capability,  and  civilian 
12/14 
15-31011
12/10/2015 
A/70/PV.30
experts and police officers. Our experience shows that 
the  effective  use  of  information  and  intelligence  can 
contribute  meaningfully  to  achieving  the  mandated 
goals  and  can  save  the  lives  of  peacekeepers  and 
civilians.
We stand ready to help modernize United Nations 
missions and make them more effective. To achieve those 
objectives, the United Nations needs Member States to 
provide more resources. To encourage other countries, 
the  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  hosted  a  European 
regional conference on peace operations in Amsterdam 
last  February.  Together  with  Bangladesh,  Ethiopia, 
Indonesia, Japan, Pakistan, Rwanda and Uruguay, the 
Kingdom of the Netherlands was co-host of the recent 
leaders’  summit  on  peacekeeping,  organized  by  the 
United  States  and  the  Department  of  Peacekeeping 
Operations. The Kingdom of the Netherlands has also 
made  a  considerable  donation  to  the  Department’s 
Strategic  Force  Generation  and  Capability  Planning 
Cell in order to further improve planning and outreach 
to Member States.
As  mentioned  earlier,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s implementation report as a follow-up to the 
report  of  the  High-level  Independent  Panel  on  Peace 
Operations. We call on all States Members of the United 
Nations to collectively support its swift implementation.
With the report on the peacebuilding architecture 
(see A/69/968), the global study on the implementation 
of  Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000),  and  the 
reports on peace operations, we have an important and 
not-to-be-missed opportunity to strengthen and improve 
the United Nations peace and security architecture in 
an integrated and comprehensive way. In that context, 
let me quote from the statement of the observer for the 
European Union this morning: 
“No one reform should be undertaken in isolation 
from the others. The search for coherence, synergies 
and complementarities among these reviews should 
guide our work ahead.” (A/70/PV.29, p. 6)
Let me assure you, Mr. President, that the Kingdom 
of  the  Netherlands  will  continue  to  be  a  constructive 
partner in the process ahead of us.
thank  you  for  giving  me 
Mr. Coloma Grimberg (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): 
Mr.  President,  I 
the 
opportunity to address such an important issue as the 
review of peacekeeping operations. This review comes 
at  a  time  when  peacekeeping  operations  have  tripled 
since the year 2000. In other words, it is obvious that 
we  are  going  through  complex  times  in  international 
relations. We therefore welcome the report of the High-
level  Independent  Panel  on  Peace  Operations  (see 
A/70/95), headed by former President Ramos-Horta of 
Timor-Leste, and the subsequent report of the Secretary 
General (A/70/357).
We align ourselves with the statement made by the 
representative of Morocco on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement  (see  A/70/PV.29).  We  no  wish  to  set  out  a 
few thoughts on behalf of Chile.
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  covers  many 
areas in which we can improve peacekeeping operations. 
Chile  values  the  emphasis  placed  on  mediation  and 
facilitation. We believe that they are important tools that 
can prevent the outbreak of conflicts and consequently 
save  lives.  We  also  deem  important  the  focus  on  the 
political  aspect,  since  initiatives  in  peacekeeping 
operations  must  not  be  centred  solely  on  the  military 
aspect.  There  is  a  need  for  a  comprehensive  strategy 
that covers social and economic aspects and full respect 
for human rights — in short, a road map that will lead 
to lasting peace.
Chile  also  notes  with  much  interest  the  aspect  of 
preparation  in  improving  the  training  of  the  troops 
of  peacekeeping  operations.  We  are  prepared  to 
cooperate  in  that  area.  Furthermore,  we  think  that 
the  participation  of  women  is  indispensable,  not  only 
in  terms  of  numbers,  but  also  in  terms  of  occupying 
higher-ranking posts.
We  were  present  when  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson  presented 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  a  few  weeks  ago. 
In  so  doing,  he  constantly  refered  to  the  need  for  the 
international  community  to  have  the  will  to  make 
successful the review process that we are now initiating. 
We believe that the success of that process will depend 
to a great extent on its being discussed in an open and 
transparent fashion; in other words, all States Members 
of the United Nations must be able to participate. Only 
in that way will we get a solid and legitimate mandate 
that  will  enable  us  to  operate  more  easily  in  the  new 
context of peacekeeping operations.
Mr. Isnomo (Indonesia): My delegation extends its 
appreciation  to  you,  Sir,  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
the initiative and presentation of his report (A/70 357), 
and  to  the  Chair  of  the  High-level  Independent  Panel 
on Peace Operations. Indonesia extends its appreciation 
to President Ramos-Horta and his outstanding team for 
their exemplary work.
15-31011
13/14
A/70/PV.30 
12/10/2015
My delegation associates itself with the statement 
delivered  this  morning  by  the  representative  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Morocco  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement (see A/70/PV.29).
During 
the  high-level  week,  Indonesia 
took 
part  in  the  leaders’  summit  on  peace  operations  that 
was  chaired  by  President  Barack  Obama.  During  the 
summit, Indonesia pledged to deploy by 2016 a military 
composite  battalion  and  a  formed  police  unit  that 
includes  100  individual  police  officers,  including  40 
female  police  officers.  That  pledge  was  made  when 
we  co-hosted  the  Asia-Pacific  regional  meeting  on 
peacekeeping  operations  held  in  Jakarta  this  year.  In 
that  regard,  Indonesia  remains  steadfastly  committed 
to realizing our vision of 4,000 peacekeeping troops by 
the year 2019.
We  concur  with  the  view  that  the  report  of  the 
High-level  Independent  Panel  on  Peace  Operations 
(see A/70/95) and the Secretary-General’s report must 
be  addressed  because  of  the  ever-increasing  demand, 
change and developments in peacekeeping operations. 
My  delegation  believes  that  both  reports  should  be 
implemented  by  all  Member  States  with  a  view  to 
strengthening  ownership  by  all  Member  States  in  a 
transparent  manner.  We  therefore  support  further 
intergovernmental deliberations in the areas of concepts, 
policies  and  strategies  within  the  framework  of  the 
Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, which 
is mandated to formulate policymaking in peacekeeping. 
Recommendations  related  to  peacekeeping  should  be 
addressed at the Special Committee.
With  regard  to  the  recommendations  related  to 
special  political  missions,  we  consider  it  appropriate 
that they be addressed in the Fourth Committee, while 
issues  pertaining  to  financial  implications  should 
remain within the purview of the Fifth Committee.
As  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
foundation  of  the  United  Nations,  we  are  cognizant 
that  fulfilling  its  mandate  remains  a  challenge.  Each 
country  may  contribute  differently  to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping. Even the smallest contributions matter, as 
they can make a difference in maintaining international 
peace  and  security.  First  and  foremost,  deploying  a 
United Nations peacekeeping mission is a reflection of 
international commitment in the face of current threats 
to international security. We must work hard to enhance 
international  cooperation  and  mutual  trust  between 
countries.  Indonesia  continues  to  be  committed  to 
peacekeeping operations in all their aspects, and stands 
ready  to  take  that  process  forward  within  the  United 
Nations, through an intergovernmental process.
The President: We have now heard the last speaker 
in  the  debate  on  agenda  item  122.  I  thank  all  of  you 
for your contributions, and for the candid and positive 
spirit in which you have engaged in that debate. Many 
welcomed  the  work  of  the  High-level  Independent 
Panel  on  Peace  Operations  and  the  subsequent  report 
of the Secretary-General as useful contributions to our 
discussions on how best to ensure that United Nations 
peace operations are as effective as possible.
In  the  light  of  today’s  debate,  I  intend  to  explore 
with  Member  States 
the  notion  of  advancing  a 
procedural  resolution  that  should  recall  in  particular 
that relevant bodies will assess the recommendations in 
accordance with established procedures. I look forward 
to the General Assembly’s further active consideration 
of those proposals.
The meeting rose at 4.25 p.m.
14/14 
15-31011
