United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
50th plenary meeting
Monday, 9 November 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.50
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 113 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and 
other elections
(b) Election of thirty members of the 
United Nations Commission on International 
Trade Law
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  turn 
to  the  election  of  30  members  of  the  United  Nations 
Commission on International Trade Law.
The 30 outgoing members are as follows: Algeria, 
Argentina,  Australia,  Austria,  Belarus,  Botswana, 
Brazil,  Colombia,  Croatia,  the  Czech  Republic,  Fiji, 
Gabon,  India,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  Israel, 
Italy,  Jordan,  Kenya,  Mauritius,  Nigeria,  Pakistan, 
Paraguay,  the  Philippines,  Poland,  Spain,  Thailand, 
Turkey,  Uganda,  the  United  States  of  America  and 
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. Those Member 
States are eligible for immediate re-election.
I  should  like  to  remind  members  that  as  of 
27 June 2016, the following States will continue to be 
represented  in  the  Commission:  Armenia,  Bulgaria, 
Cameroon,  Canada,  China,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Denmark, 
Ecuador,  El  Salvador,  France,  Germany,  Greece, 
Honduras, Hungary, Indonesia, Japan, Kuwait, Liberia, 
Malaysia,  Mauritania,  Mexico,  Namibia,  Panama, 
the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, Sierra 
Leone,  Singapore,  Switzerland,  the  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland  and  Zambia. 
Therefore, those 30 States are not eligible for election.
The  General  Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  the 
election of 30 members to replace those members whose 
term of office will expire on 27 June 2016.
In  accordance  with  rule  92  of 
the  General 
Assembly rules of procedure, the election will be held 
by  secret  ballot  and  there  will  be  no  nominations.  I 
should like to recall, however, paragraph 16 of decision 
34/401,  whereby  the  practice  of  dispensing  with  the 
secret  ballot  for  elections  to  subsidiary  organs  when 
the  number  of  candidates  corresponds  to  the  number 
of  seats  to  be  filled  should  become  standard  unless 
a  delegation  specifically  requests  a  vote  on  a  given 
election. In the absence of such a request, may I take it 
that the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on 
the basis of dispensing with the secret ballot?
It was so decided.
The  President:  With  regard  to  candidates,  I 
should  like  to  inform  members  of  the  following.  For 
the  seven  seats  from  among  the  African  States,  there 
is  one  candidate:  Mauritius.  For  the  seven  seats 
among the Asia-Pacific States, the group has endorsed 
six  candidates:  India,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran, 
Lebanon,  Pakistan,  the  Philippines  and  Thailand.  For 
the  four  seats  among  the  Eastern  European  States, 
the  group  has  endorsed  four  candidates:  Belarus,  the 
Czech Republic, Poland and Romania. For the five seats 
among the Latin American and Caribbean States, there 
are five endorsed candidates: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-35537 (E)
*1535537*
A/70/PV.50 
09/11/2015
Colombia  and  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela. 
For the seven seats among the Western European and 
other  States,  there  are  seven  endorsed  candidates: 
Australia, Austria, Israel, Italy, Spain, Turkey and the 
United States of America.
On the recommendation of the Chair of the Group 
of African States, I have endorsed Ghana and Liberia as 
members of the Committee on Conferences for a period 
of three years beginning on 1 January 2016. May I take 
it that the Assembly takes note of these appointments?
Since the number of candidates for the five regional 
groups is equal to or less than the number of seats to 
be filled by each group, may I take it that the General 
Assembly  wishes  to  declare  those  candidates  elected 
for a six-year term beginning on 27 June 2016?
It was so decided.
The President: I congratulate the following States, 
which  have  been  elected  as  members  of  the  United 
Nations Commission on International Trade Law for a 
six-year  term  beginning  on  27  June  2016:  Argentina, 
Australia,  Austria,  Belarus,  Brazil,  Chile,  Colombia, 
the Czech Republic, India, Israel, the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran,  Italy,  Lebanon,  Mauritius,  Pakistan,  the 
Philippines, Poland, Romania, Spain, Thailand, Turkey, 
the  United  States  of  America  and  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela.
Regarding  the  six  remaining  vacancies  from  the 
Group of African States and the one remaining vacancy 
from  the  Group  of  Asia-Pacific  States,  the  General 
Assembly  will  hold  elections  upon  notification  by 
interested Member States from those two regions.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 113.
Agenda item 114 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(e)  Appointment of members of the Committee 
on Conferences
Note by the Secretary-General (A/70/107)
The President: The General Assembly has before it 
a note by the Secretary-General circulated in document 
A/70/107.  As  indicated  in  that  document,  since  the 
term  of  office  of  the  representatives  of  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina, Côte d’Ivoire, Iraq, Israel, Peru, Senegal 
and Uruguay will expire on 31 December 2015, it will be 
necessary for the President of the General Assembly to 
appoint seven members to fill the resulting vacancies. 
These members will serve for a period of three years 
beginning on 1 January 2016.
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  should  like  to  remind  members 
that one seat from the Asia-Pacific States, one seat from 
the Eastern European States, two seats from the Latin 
American and Caribbean States and one seat from the 
Western European and other States, for a period of two 
years  beginning  on  1  January  2016,  remain  vacant.  I 
urge these groups to submit their candidates as soon as 
possible.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of sub-item (e) of agenda item 114.
(f)  Appointment of members of the Joint 
Inspection Unit
Note by the Secretary-General (A/70/106)
The  President:  As  indicated  in  the  note  by  the 
Secretary-General,  the  General  Assembly  is  required 
during the current session to appoint a member to fill 
the vacancy in the Joint Inspection Unit that will arise 
from the expiration of the term of office on 31 December 
2016 of Mr. Jorge Flores Callejas (Honduras).
As  also  indicated  in  document  A/70/106,  in 
accordance  with  paragraph  1  of  article  3  of  the 
statute  of  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit,  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  will  consult  with  Member 
States  to  draw  up  a  list  of  countries  —  in  this  case, 
one  country  —  which  would  be  requested  to  propose 
a  candidate  for  appointment  to  the  Joint  Inspection 
Unit. As further indicated in paragraph 2 of document 
A/70/106,  the  General  Assembly,  by  its  resolution 
61/238  decided  that,  beginning  on  1  January  2008, 
the President of the General Assembly, when drawing 
up  the  list  of  countries  in  accordance  with  article  3, 
paragraph  1,  of  the  statute  of  the  Unit,  would  invite 
Member  States  to  submit  the  names  of  the  countries 
and their respective candidates simultaneously, on the 
understanding  that  the  candidates  submitted  were  the 
candidates that the respective Member States intend to 
propose, to the extent possible, for appointment by the 
Assembly in accordance with article 3, paragraph 2, on 
the statute.
2/4 
15-35537
09/11/2015 
A/70/PV.50
After holding the necessary consultations, I should 
like to communicate to the Assembly the information 
received from the Chair of the Group of Latin American 
and  Caribbean  States  that  the  Group  has  endorsed 
Honduras as the country that will propose a candidate 
for  the  vacancy  from  among  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States.  In  accordance  with  paragraph  1  of 
article 3, of the statute of the Joint Inspection Unit and 
resolution  61/238,  of  22  December  2006,  Honduras 
will be requested to submit the name of the candidate 
and  the  curriculum  vitae  highlighting  the  candidate’s 
relevant qualifications for the task.
I would like to remind members that, in accordance 
with  resolution  59/267,  of  23  December  2004,  the 
candidates  should  have  experience  in  at  least  one 
of  the  following  fields:  oversight,  audit,  inspection, 
investigation,  evaluation,  finance,  project  evaluation, 
programme evaluation, human resources management, 
management,  public  administration,  monitoring  and 
all-programme  performance  as  well  as  knowledge  of 
the United Nations system and its role in international 
relations.
After  holding 
the  appropriate  consultations 
described in paragraph 2 of article 3 of the statute of 
the Joint Inspection Unit, including consultations with 
the President of the Economic and Social Council and 
with the Secretary-General, in his capacity as Chair of 
the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for 
Coordination, I will submit the name of the candidate 
to the Assembly for appointment to the Joint Inspection 
Unit.
We  have 
thus  concluded 
consideration of sub-item (f) of agenda item 114.
this  stage  of  our 
Agenda item 112 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(b) Election of eighteen members of the Economic 
and Social Council
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now 
proceed to hold a by-election to elect one member of the 
Economic and Social Council, in accordance with rule 
140 of the rules of procedure. Members are reminded 
that  the  election  of  18  members  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council was held at the 37th plenary meeting, on 
21 October 2015, in which the following 18 States were 
elected members of the Economic and Social Council 
for a three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 
2016: Afghanistan, Algeria, Australia, Belgium, Chile, 
the  Czech  Republic,  Guyana,  Iraq,  Italy,  Lebanon, 
Nigeria,  Peru,  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  Rwanda, 
Somalia,  South  Africa,  the  United  States  of  America 
and Viet Nam.
I would first like to draw the attention of members 
to  a  letter  dated  7  October  2015  from  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Ireland  to  the  United  Nations, 
circulated  in  document  A/70/426.  In  his  letter,  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Ireland,  in  his  capacity 
as Chair of the Group of Western European and other 
States,  announces  that  Austria  will  relinquish  its  seat 
on the Economic and Social Council at the end of the 
year 2015 for the remainder of the 2015-2017 term, in 
favour of Ireland. As a result, one vacancy will occur 
and a new member must therefore be elected to fill the 
unexpired  term  of  office  of  Austria,  commencing  on 
1 January 2016 and expiring on 31 December 2017.
In accordance with paragraph 4 of resolution 2847 
(XXVI),  adopted  on  20  December  1971,  and  taking 
into account that the vacancy will occur in the Group 
of Western European and other States, the new member 
should therefore be elected from that regional group. I 
should like to inform the Assembly that the candidate 
who  receives  a  two-thirds  majority  and  the  greatest 
number of votes by members present and voting will be 
declared elected.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
that procedure?
It was so decided.
The President: In accordance with rule 92 of the 
rules of procedure, the election will be held by secret 
ballot, and there will be no nominations. We shall now 
proceed accordingly.
I should like to inform members that, as of 1 January 
2016,  the  following  States  from  among  the  Western 
European  and  other  States  will  be  represented  on  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council:  Australia,  Belgium, 
Finland,  France,  Italy,  Germany,  Greece,  Portugal, 
Switzerland, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland and the United States of America The 
names of those 11 States should therefore not appear on 
the ballot.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly, no representative 
shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order 
15-35537
3/4
A/70/PV.50 
09/11/2015
on the actual conduct of the voting. In addition, ballot 
papers  will  be  given  solely  to  the  delegate  seated 
directly behind the country’s name plate.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Members 
are requested to remain seated until all ballots have been 
collected. I would like to remind members that, at this 
stage, they are voting in the by-election for one seat for 
the Western European and other States. Ballot papers 
will now be distributed. I request representatives to use 
only those ballot papers and to write on them the name 
of the State for which they wish to vote. A ballot will be 
declared invalid if it contains more names of Member 
States from the relevant region than the number of seats 
assigned to it. A ballot will also be declared invalid if 
all the names of the Member States on that ballot do not 
belong to the relevant region.
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Loko 
(Benin), Mr. Dos Santos Pereira (Brazil), Ms. Hung 
(Canada),  Mr.  Stefanik  (Poland),  Mrs.  Thanarat 
(Thailand) and Ms. Magnon (Togo) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.35  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11 a.m.
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as 
follows:
Western European and other States
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members present and voting: 
Required two-thirds majority: 
Number of votes obtained:
Ireland 
Iceland 
179
1
178
5
173
116
172
1
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority, 
Ireland was elected a member of the Economic and 
Social  Council  for  a  term  of  office  beginning  on 
1 January 2016 and ending on 31 December 2017.
The  President:  I  congratulate  Ireland  on  having 
been  elected  a  member  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council l, and I thank the tellers for their assistance in 
this election.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 112.
The meeting rose at 11.05 a.m.
4/4 
15-35537
