United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
43rd plenary meeting
Friday, 30 October 2015, 10.30 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.43
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 10.35 a.m.
Agenda item 121
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and other matters related to the Security Council
The President: We are here today to address one 
of the most discussed issues within the United Nations 
and beyond in these past decades — that of the reform 
of  the  Security  Council.  Over  the  past  70  years,  the 
world  has  undergone  profound  change.  Challenges 
we  face  today  in  preserving  international  peace  and 
security are increasingly complex and more numerous, 
informed  by  greater  interconnectivity  and  a  series  of 
new and emerging threats.
the  primary 
for 
responsibility 
Those  challenges  require  that  the  United  Nations 
organ  with 
the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  be 
representative,  credible,  efficient  and  effective.  The 
Organization on its seventieth anniversary requires that 
the  Security  Council  be  capable  of  fully  fulfilling  its 
mandate  in  line  with  the  spirit  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter. In this context, the need for Security Council 
reform is unquestionable. At the 2005 World Summit, 
leaders expressed support for reform to
“make  it  more  broadly  representative,  efficient 
and  transparent  and  thus  to  further  enhance  its 
effectiveness and the legitimacy and implementation 
of its decisions” (resolution 60/1, para. 153).
Ten years have passed since the World Summit and 
50 years since the Security Council was last expanded 
to  include  additional  non-permanent  members.  And 
during the general debate and in my bilateral meetings 
in  September,  I  was  reminded  of  just  how  important 
this  topic  continues  to  be  for  a  large  majority  of  the 
membership  as  leaders  expressed  their  concern  about 
the  lack  of  progress  and  their  hopes  for  the  current 
negotiations.  At  the  same  time,  I  understand  that 
discussions  on  this  subject  are  sensitive  and  difficult 
and  that  there  are  different  positions  among  the 
membership. I am keenly aware, therefore, that a matter 
of  such  importance  requires  a  spirit  of  compromise 
from all.
the 
On  14  September,  the  General  Assembly  decided 
immediately  continue 
intergovernmental 
to 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  at 
the 
seventieth session (see A/69/PV.104), and, as I have said 
on previous occasions, I intend to continue this process 
during my tenure based on the decisions of the General 
Assemblyat its sixty-ninth session. With this in mind, I 
moved last week to appoint Ambassador Sylvie Lucas, 
Permanent Representative of Luxembourg, as the new 
Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations. I should like 
to thank Ambassador Lucas for taking up this important 
and difficult responsibility, and I call upon all Members 
to  extend  her  their  full  support  and  cooperation. 
Ambassador  Lucas  succeeds  Ambassador  Courtenay 
Rattray,  Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica,  and 
I  wish  to  thank  Ambassador  Rattray  for  his  work  in 
advancing  intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the 
sixty-ninth session, culminating in a text and its annex, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-34211 (E)
*1534211*
A/70/PV.43 
30/10/2015
which  reflects  the  positions  and  proposals  made  by 
Member States.
I am confident that the forthcoming intergovernmental
negotiations  will  build  on  the  momentum  and  the 
progress  made  during  the  sixty-ninth  session,  and 
I  encourage  all  members  to  continue  moving  this 
reform  process  forward,  pursuant  to  decision  69/560, 
in  particular  on  the  basis  of  the  aforementioned  text 
and  annex  circulated  by  my  predecessor  in  his  letter 
dated 31 July 2015. In this regard, it is critical that the 
negotiations avoid a mere repetition of previously stated 
positions, a dynamic that has characterized this process 
in  the  past.  Instead,  I  encourage  members  to  work 
with Ambassador Lucas to build on the progress made 
during  last  session’s  intergovernmental  negotiations 
and to advance text-based negotiations.
Of course, the success or otherwise of this process 
rests firmly with the Member States, but it is my hope 
that today’s debate can serve as a useful foundation for 
further reform and can galvanize effective negotiations 
over the coming months. 
To conclude, let me wish all participants productive 
discussions today and throughout this session. I stand 
ready  and  available  to  provide  whatever  support  is 
required to Ambassador Lucas and to all others as they 
seek to preserve the legitimacy of the Organization and 
to  secure  the  effective  functioning  of  one  of  its  most 
important organs.
Mr.  Minah  (Sierra  Leone):  I  have  the  honour  to 
deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  African  Union 
member States. 
I thank you, Mr. President, for convening today’s 
debate on agenda item 121, on the question of equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Security Council and related matters.
I would like to thank and congratulate our colleague 
Ambassador  Lucas  for  taking  up  the  appointment  of 
Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  are 
ready to work with her and look forward to hearing her 
ideas  on  how  she  intends  to  guide  our  work.  I  would 
also  like  to  thank  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica  and  outgoing 
Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  for  the 
tremendous work and progress made during the sixty-
ninth session, under the inspired leadership of President 
Sam Kutesa.
At  the  outset  I  should  like  to  reiterate  Africa’s 
continued  commitment  to  this  very  important  item. 
We  will  work  with  all  delegations  and  with  you, 
Mr.  President,  and  the  new  Chair  to  ensure  that  our 
deliberations,  in  accordance  with  General  Assembly 
decision 62/557, are not only favourable to the Common 
African Position but also achieve our common objective.
We were heartened during the Assembly’s general 
debate,  when  many  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
reaffirmed  the  need  to  reform  the  Security  Council 
in  order  to  make  it  broadly  representative,  efficient 
and  transparent  and  also  to  enhance  its  effectiveness, 
legitimacy and the implementation of its decisions. We 
remain  committed  to  decision  62/557  and  subsequent 
decisions. We hope that an acceptable outcome on the 
reform issue will be forthcoming during this session. 
We  have  continued  to  express  our  position  in  all 
previous 
intergovernmental  negotiations  meetings, 
including  also  populating  the  framework  document 
that was circulated by the President of the sixty-ninth 
session  on  31  July.  Our  participation  in  the  current 
session  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  is  firmly 
anchored on that platform.
Going  forward,  the  African  Union  Committee 
of  Ten  on  Security  Council  Reform  remains  actively 
engaged  in  holding  consultations  with  all  member 
States, delegations and groups and remains open to new 
ideas and new initiatives on the question of reform of 
the Security Council. It is common knowledge that the 
Common African Position has gained momentum and 
continues to receive support in these deliberations for 
Africa’s  legitimate  claim  for  permanent  membership 
in  the  Security  Council,  and  to  correct  its  under-
representation  in  the  non-permanent  category.  Our 
claim is based on an historical injustice, and we hope 
that it will be addressed without further delay. Further 
delay  continues  to  perpetuate  the  injustice  and  also 
prevents  Africa  from  taking  its  rightful  place  in  the 
Security Council.
There are several contentious elements on this issue 
of reform. One concerns the question of the veto. As we 
have  said  before  and  will  continue  to  repeat,  Africa’s 
preferred  position  is  for  the  abolition  of  the  veto,  but 
if it continues to exist it must be extended to all new 
permanent  members.  We  call  for  its  abolition  but  are 
prepared  to  work  with  other  delegations  to  see  how 
there could be a possible limitation on the veto.
2/24 
15-34211
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.43
We are of the view that the only solution that could 
be  worthwhile  on  the  question  of  Security  Council 
reform  is  that  which  garners  the  widest  possible 
acceptance,  which  will  also  allow  a  text  to  emerge 
and evolve during this session in an open, transparent, 
inclusive,  balanced  and  comprehensive  membership-
driven manner. We are willing and able to work with 
all delegations to achieve this objective.
On  the  question  of  whether  the  African  position 
is  a  take-it-or-leave-it  position,  we  prefer  to  reserve 
our  comments  on  this  issue  in  the  format  of  formal 
negotiations, which we hope will commence soon. Any 
permanent seat that we are awarded, of course, will be 
held  in  accordance  with  the  Charter.  Our  permanent 
seats and non-permanent seats will of course rotate as 
per the usual practice. At the appropriate time, Africa 
will select its candidates for the non-permanent seats in 
a manner of its choosing and will also, in keeping with 
the relevant Charter provisions, make that known to all.
We  call  on  and  urge  all  delegations  and  interest 
groups to pledge themselves to a new commitment to 
action. In other words, let us build on the work and the 
achievements of the last session and move from there 
to real negotiations and, hopefully, to a conclusion that 
we can all live with. This session needs to build on the 
dramatic  and  unexpected  progress  made  during  the 
last  session,  as  well  as  to  increase  the  pace  for  more 
frank and lively debate on this issue. We feel that is the 
only way the necessary political will, will lead to the 
much-needed and much-delayed reform of the Security 
Council.  The  vision  of  our  leaders  at  the  2005  World 
Summit has been much delayed, and we hope that with 
your help, Mr. President, we can all realize it in the not 
too distant future.
The reform of the Security Council, as we all know, 
lies at the very core of the need to ensure that the United 
Nations  remains  at  the  heart  of  global  governance 
and  is  also  the  key  element  in  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. We wish to reiterate 
that the regrettable status quo continues to undermine 
the  principles  of  equity,  legitimacy,  accountability 
and transparency in the work of the Security Council. 
It  also  undermines  the  Council’s  effectiveness  in  its 
pursuit  and  stewardship  of  international  peace  and 
security.  Therefore  we  affirm  our  commitment  to  the 
reform process and urge the membership as a matter of 
priority to move not only to correct the injustice done to 
Africa, but also to make sure that the Council is indeed 
truly reflective of the modern era we live in.
Finally,  we  wish  to  assure  you,  Mr.  President,  of 
our  continued  support  and  constructive  participation 
towards  the  early  attainment  of  our  common  goal  in 
reforming the Security Council. We assure all concerned 
that we will push and move for a truly interactive and 
productive session.
Mr.  Talbot  (Guyana):  In  today’s  debate  on  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
matters  related  to  the  Security  Council,  I  have  the 
honour to speak on behalf of the States members of the 
Caribbean Community (CARICOM).
At 
the  outset,  Mr.  President,  CARICOM 
acknowledges  your  commitment  to  this  issue,  as 
demonstrated  by  the  convening  of  today’s  debate  and 
your letter of 23 October, through which you announced 
the  appointment  of  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg,  as  Chair 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  CARICOM 
has  every  confidence  that  with  her  vast  experience, 
including as her country’s representative on the Security 
Council just recently, Ambassador Lucas will be able to 
add value to the process, building on the valuable work 
of the sixty-ninth session. CARICOM offers her its full 
support.
In  this  connection,  we  take  the  opportunity  to 
pay  tribute  to  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa, 
for  his  tenacious  leadership  and  commitment  to  this 
issue  and  for  reinvigorating  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on reform of the Security Council during 
the  sixty-ninth  session.  We  also  express  our  sincere 
appreciation 
to  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray, 
Permanent Representative of Jamaica, for his effective 
stewardship of the intergovernmental negotiations. His 
leadership  and  commitment  have  brought  the  process 
to an important stage and provided us with a workable 
negotiating text.
Despite  the  acknowledged  differences  on  this 
important  subject,  this  seventieth  session  presents  us, 
as States Members of the United Nations, with a fresh 
opportunity  to  advance  the  deliberations  on  reform 
of the Security Council. With the consensus adoption 
of  decision  69/560,  the  General  Assembly  now  has  a 
mandate to move the process forward by building on the 
informal meetings held during the sixty-ninth session, 
as well as on the positions of and proposals by Member 
States as reflected in the text and its annex circulated by 
Mr. Kutesa via a letter of 31 July 2015. It is therefore our 
expectation that the set text will be the working basis 
15-34211
3/24
A/70/PV.43 
30/10/2015
of the next round of the intergovernmental negotiations, 
allowing  for  real  give-and-take  negotiations  in  which 
positions  merge,  gaps  are  narrowed  and  areas  of 
commonalities are used as building blocks towards the 
common objective of a reformed Security Council. We 
anticipate in this process that further and new ideas and 
proposals may emerge to enrich our deliberations.
Ambassador Lucas will successfully steer the process 
forward pursuant to the Assembly’s consensus decision 
69/560  of  14  September,  which  fundamentally  set  the 
Security Council reform process on a negotiation path 
based  on  the  text  and  its  annex  circulated  by  then 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  in  his  letter  of 
31 July 2015.
For its part, CARICOM has remained steadfast in 
support of the reform of the Security Council over many 
years,  including  throughout  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  Our  delegations  are  committed 
to 
playing a constructive role in the process. CARICOM 
maintains  a  principled  advocacy  for  expansion  in 
both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of 
membership. The role and security of small States are 
key  factors  for  CARICOM.  In  this  context,  we  have 
proposed the inclusion of a special seat for small island 
developing States in the reformed Security Council.
The region’s support for the inclusion of Africa and 
other  developing  countries  in  the  permanent  category 
of membership remains unwavering. With regard to the 
veto, CARICOM continues to call for the elimination 
of the veto. However, in the event of its retention, we 
consider  that  all  permanent  members  of  a  reformed 
Security  Council  should  have  the  same  rights  and 
prerogatives.
In  conclusion,  let  me  assure  you,  Mr.  President, 
of  the  full  support  of  CARICOM  delegations  as  you 
seek  to  advance  the  important  cause  of  reform  of  the 
Security Council.
Ms.  Rambally  (Saint  Lucia):  I  have  the  honour 
to take the floor today on behalf of a diverse group of 
42  developing  countries  from  Africa,  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean, and Asia and the Pacific, who are 
united  by  a  common  cause  —  to  achieve  lasting  and 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  Our 
group is bound by the firm conviction that expansion 
in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories 
of membership of the Security Council is imperative to 
better reflect contemporary world realities and achieve 
a  more  accountable,  representative,  transparent  and, 
importantly, relevant Security Council.
We  would  like  to  begin  by  congratulating  you, 
Mr. President, on commencing this process in earnest 
in  your  letter  of  23  October  2015.  We  welcome  the 
appointment  of  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Luxembourg,  as  Chair  of 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations. We are confident that 
As  a  leading  pro-reform  group,  the  L.69  was  one 
of the first groups to request early commencement of 
text-based negotiations through the intergovernmental 
negotiations  process.  We  are  therefore  extremely 
heartened to note the progress achieved in the previous 
round through a consultative, transparent and inclusive 
process  which  is  now  being  carried  forward  in  the 
Assembly’s  seventieth  session.  It  is  also  a  significant 
step  forward  that  all  Member  States  unanimously 
adopted decision 69/560, which is substantive and calls 
for building upon the text of 31 July and its annex.
It  is  therefore  important  in  this  next  round  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations that we commence the 
process from where we left off in the previous round. 
We are now eager to engage in the actual negotiations 
on this text in the same manner as we negotiate texts 
elsewhere  in  the  United  Nations.  All  of  us  are  party 
to  both  the  General  Assembly  rules  of  procedure  and 
the  specific  General  Assembly  resolution  regulating 
negotiations on Security Council reform.
The  L.69  group  of  developing  countries  would 
also  like  to  place  on  record  its  appreciation  to  the 
outgoing Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations, 
Ambassador Courtenay Rattray, for having steered this 
process successfully, leading to the consensus decision 
adopted at the sixty-ninth session.
In  recent  years,  we  have  all  asked  the  Chair  to 
produce  a  negotiation  text,  but  we  have  never  got 
one.  Finally,  with  the  adoption  of  decision  69/560  we 
know  that  we  have  in  place  a  text  that  is  recognized 
undisputedly by the entire membership. Now, therefore, 
it becomes critical that we move further ahead with a 
results-based time line as an absolute imperative. The 
L.69 group is fully committed and will constructively 
engage in the intergovernmental negotiations process, 
building further on the Assembly President’s negotiation 
text  of  31  July.  The  objective  is  to  move  forward 
decisively during the ongoing seventieth session.
The commitment of the L.69 group is to engage in 
a  process  that  would  yield  results.  However,  we  wish 
to  place  on  record  that  should  this  process  not  move 
4/24 
15-34211
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.43
forward  with  the  negotiation  text  as  referenced  by 
decision 69/560, then we are prepared to look at other 
options that would yield the results desired by the vast 
majority of the United Nations membership. 
This seventieth anniversary of the United Nations 
is an important opportunity to show decisive progress 
and finally deliver a decision mandated by our Heads 
of State and Government at the 2005 World Summit: to 
achieve lasting reforms of the Security Council.
Mr.  Cardi  (Italy):  On  behalf  of  the  Uniting 
for  Consensus  (UfC)  group,  I  wish  to  thank  you, 
Mr.  President,  for  convening  this  annual  debate  on 
Security  Council  reform  and  to  warmly  welcome 
the  appointment  of  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas  of 
Luxembourg  to  her  new,  pivotal  capacity.  We  are 
confident  that  she  will  be  attentive  to  the  needs  and 
concerns of all Member States to facilitate our collective 
endeavour  in  the  coming  months.  Allow  me  also  to 
thank  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray  of  Jamaica  for 
his efforts during the past negotiating session.
We  believe  that  the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the 
General Assembly can be seen as a step forward on our 
path  towards  reform  in  terms  of  active  participation 
by an increasing number of Member States. Countries 
that in the past had been on the margins of the debate 
decided to engage and to spell out their positions on the 
future  of  the  Security  Council.  In  our  view,  this  is  a 
material legacy. Our debate needs to be more inclusive, 
just as the Council we are striving to reform.
full 
Similarly,  we  need 
transparency.  The 
intergovernmental  negotiations  are  a  membership-
driven  process,  mandated  by  Assembly  decision 
62/557. We need predictability through a clear agenda, 
not  arbitrary  guidance.  Member  States  should  be 
facilitated  in  their  work  through  timely  information 
and  extensive  consultation.  Each  Member  State, 
belonging to any negotiating group, has the right to be 
adequately informed about the procedure. The past has 
demonstrated  that  divisive  approaches  and  initiatives 
complicate our process even further, distancing us from 
reaching our commonly shared goal of reform.
The  UfC  group  has  been  tirelessly  advocating 
a  deeper  discussion  of  the  principles  on  which  the 
Council’s  reform  must  be  based.  Clarifying  how 
we  conceive  the  reform  is  a  crucial  undertaking  that 
would  facilitate  negotiations.  Proof  of  this  was  given 
to  us  by  the  negotiations  on  the  method  of  selection 
and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General  under  last 
year’s  annual  resolution  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly  (resolution  69/321). 
The collectively shared principle of a more transparent 
selection  process  was  spontaneously  translated  into 
some concrete measures. We knew with clarity where 
we were heading so we achieved most of the expected 
results in only one year of work.
We  have  all  been  talking  for  years  about  the 
common  goal  of  a  more  representative,  democratic, 
accountable and effective Security Council, but do we 
really agree on the meaning of these principles? Let me 
give a concrete example. Exactly one week ago, most of 
us attended the launch of a code of conduct supported 
by more than 100 countries, aimed at limiting the use of 
the veto and preventing Council inaction, thus making 
it  more  effective  in  the  face  of  heinous  international 
crimes.  However,  today  we  will  still  hear  voices  in 
favour of adding new national permanent members, so 
new veto powers, all while pursuing the same goal of 
making the Council more effective.
The  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  has  been  very 
forthcoming in clarifying how we interpret the reform 
principles  that  I  have  just  mentioned.  The  UfC  has 
already tackled the issue, most recently last year at the 
general debate and throughout the entire work session. 
Today,  as  a  further  contribution  to  the  debate  on  the 
objectives of reform and to give substance to it, I would 
like  to  touch  on  an  increasingly  recurrent  issue:  the 
request for a Security Council that is representative of 
the realities of the twenty-first century. That is certainly 
an important concept because it suggests that Security 
Council reform should be reflective of the changes that 
have occurred in the last 70 years. Let me summarize 
the three main changes that have taken place.
First, in these 70 years not only has the number of 
Member  States  grown,  but  the  relative  weight  of  the 
different regional groups of the United Nations has also 
changed. That has led the membership to unanimously 
request an enlargement of the Council to favour areas 
that to date have been disadvantaged in the distribution 
of seats. The response of Uniting for Consensus to this 
first trend is unequivocal. We support an enlargement of 
the Council up to 26 members, assigning the majority of 
added seats to Africa, the Asia-Pacific region and Latin 
America. We also understand and heed the call of the 
Eastern  European  Group  and  of  cross-cutting  groups 
of States, such as small island developing States, small 
States and the Arab countries.
15-34211
5/24
A/70/PV.43 
30/10/2015
Secondly,  some  Member  States  aspire  to  play  a 
more  prominent  role  in  the  Council.  The  UfC  highly 
values  the  contribution  that  these  States  may  offer  to 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
No  one  has  asked  them  to  forfeit  their  willingness  to 
play a greater role in the Council. In fact, our proposal 
of longer-term seats with the possibility of immediate 
re-election  was  conceived  precisely  to  meet  these 
expectations. Let me clarify: these seats would not be 
reserved  for  a  select  group  of  countries.  All  Member 
States willing to make a bigger contribution to the work 
of the Security Council would have the right to run for a 
longer-term seat. Our proposal is democratic in nature.
Thirdly, over the past 70 years we have experienced 
change at an incessantly faster pace in the international 
arena. The emergence of new regional actors and new 
global  challenges  imposes  a  modern  vision  for  the 
Security  Council,  enhancing  its  flexibility  not  only 
in  terms  of  operations,  but  also  in  terms  of  its  very 
structure and representation. The reality of the twenty-
first  century  is  in  continuous  transformation,  and  a 
changing reality requires a Council able to adapt to it. 
We  believe  that  regular  elections  are  the  best  way  to 
guarantee not only a truly democratic and accountable 
Security Council, but also a Council able to continually 
adapt to the rapid changes of today and tomorrow.
That  is  what  we  mean  by  an  inclusive  Security 
Council. Let us offer to all Member States — especially 
small States and developing countries, which represent 
the  majority  of  the  membership  —  the  opportunity 
to  contribute  more  to  the  Council’s  work.  This  goal 
can  be  achieved  solely  by  ensuring  a  proper,  fair  and 
democratic  system,  through  regular  elections.  That  is 
what we mean by a Security Council in tune with the 
realities of the twenty-first century — a new, modern 
Council  grounded  on  a  profoundly  democratic  vision 
that carries within it inclusiveness and adaptability.
That is the path towards the early reform that our 
leaders called for more than 10 years ago — a reform 
that can be attained with no further delay, building on 
the many already existing convergences among Member 
States; a comprehensive reform of the Security Council 
that can be concretely achieved by enlarging the Council 
with new elected members and by a more balanced and 
equitable representation of regional groups. Other areas 
that require our due attention.include an enhanced and 
closer  relationship  between  the  Security  Council  and 
the General Assembly; and improved working methods 
of  the  Council,  including  the  question  of  the  veto  are 
also
This is also the path towards a consensual reform 
of  the  Security  Council  that,  due  to  its  paramount 
importance, must be endorsed by all Member States. The 
Uniting for Consensus group stands ready to cooperate 
with you, Sir, the new intergovernmental negotiations 
Chair,  and  the  entire  membership  to  advance  this 
process  in  good  faith  and  in  mutual  respect,  being 
guided by our strong conviction that a truly democratic 
Security Council reform is possible and within reach.
Mr. Alotaibi (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): I have the 
honour to make this statement on behalf of the Group 
of Arab States. 
I  would  like  to  convey  to  you,  Mr.  President,  the 
support of the Arab Group in the work of the General 
Assembly at this session. I also wish to thank Ambassador 
Courtenay  Rattray,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Jamaica,  for  his  work  during  the  previous  session. 
We  welcome  the  appointment  of  Ms.  Sylvie  Lucas, 
Permanent Representative of Luxembourg as Chair of 
the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform.  We  wish  her  every  success  and  assure  her  of 
our full cooperation.
The international community is seeing increasing 
changes. We need to step up our efforts to strengthen 
the  role  of  the  Security  Council  so  that  it  will  be 
more  effective  and  able  to  meet  its  challenges,  more 
representative, 
transparent,  neutral  and  credible. 
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  and  equitable 
representation  thereon  is  one  of  the  crucial  pillars  of 
the  overall  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  More  than 
20  years  of  discussions  on  expanding  the  Council 
and  improving  its  working  methods  have  seen  many 
international and regional initiatives crop up, including 
those of the Arab Group. 
But  now,  seventy  years  after  the  establishment  of 
the United Nations and with the change in international 
realities, it is extremely important to make progress in 
reforming the Council, in the context of the unanimity 
of  Member  States  on  the  need  for  change.  However, 
we must not seek a hasty solution on which there is no 
consensus, nor must we have a deadline that would block 
a comprehensive solution to reform. In this regard, we 
reaffirm our stance that intergovernmental negotiations 
are the only forum in which to achieve an agreement on 
expansion in line with Assembly decision 62/557. That 
6/24 
15-34211
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.43
Recent 
developments 
is the basis for these negotiations, stipulating that they 
be owned by the Member States.
in 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  have  proved  the  need  for  greater  clarity 
in  the  process  of  the  negotiations  so  as  to  bolster 
confidence  and  avoid  divisions  among  the  Members 
of  the  United  Nations.  In  our  opinion,  this  requires 
efforts during this session to achieve an agreement on 
the principles and rules governing reform with respect 
to the five key issues set out in decision 62/557 so as 
to ensure clarity and transparency in the negotiations 
before  we  move  on  to  substantial  matters.  We  must 
bear in mind all proposals and positions put forward by 
Member States regarding the expansion and reform of 
the Council. That must take place with the agreement 
of Member States and groups of States that present their 
proposals. We are fully confident that these very clear 
points  will  guide  Ambassador  Lucas  in  her  efforts  as 
Chair of the negotiations during the seventieth session 
to achieve consensus on how to move forward.
The  Arab  Group  is  aware  of  the  importance  of 
the  five  key  issues  of  Security  Council  reform  in  the 
context of a global vision of a solution that would enjoy 
majority  agreement.  To  this  end,  we  draw  attention 
to  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly,  which  has  many 
roles to play at many different levels, including making 
recommendations  to  the  Security  Council  on  matters 
pertaining to international peace and security, pursuant 
to Article 11 of the Charter of the United Nations. There 
is therefore a need to bear in mind the complementary 
relationship  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security Council so as to guarantee a balance between 
these two bodies. 
We highlight the fact that the use by the Council’s 
five permanent members of their right of veto has on 
more than one occasion eroded the Council’s credibility 
and  paralysed  its  decision-making  ability.  It  has  also 
prevented necessary measures being taken to promote 
and protect international peace and security. 
Furthermore, the Council’s procedures and working 
methods must be made more efficient and transparent.
The  position  of  the  members  of  the  League  of 
Arab  States  on  Security  Council  reform  is  to  ask  for 
permanent Arab representation on the Council, enjoying 
all prerogatives when the Security Council is expanded. 
We would ask for proportional representation for Arab 
States with respect to non-permanent membership. We 
must not set an artificial deadline that might hamper a 
global solution to the question of reform. We are willing 
to  cooperate  positively  on  this  during  the  seventieth 
session of the General Assembly.
Mr.  Braun  (Germany):  I  have  the  honour  to  take 
the floor today on behalf of the Group of Four (G-4) to 
convey a two-fold message of gratefulness and urgency.
First, I should like to express our gratitude to you, 
Mr.  President,  for  your  commitment  to  moving  the 
process  of  Security  Council  reform  forward  during 
your term in office. We hope there will be substantial 
progress  during  this  seventieth  session,  based  on  the 
legacy of former Assembly President Sam Kutesa and 
the former Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations, 
Courtenay Rattray, who led a transparent, inclusive and 
open process. Let me express our thanks and our explicit 
respect to Ambassador Rattray at this point. As for your 
efforts  during  the  seventieth  session,  Mr.  President, 
please be assured of our full support.
As  expressed  in  the  many  debates  and  events  in 
recent  weeks,  there  is  growing  support  among  the 
Members of the United Nations for a structural reform 
of  the  Security  Council.  At  the  same  time,  on  the 
occasion of the seventieth anniversary, we hear growing 
criticism  directed  at  the  Council  for  being  unable  to 
take  decisions  concerning  some  of  the  most  pressing 
situations in international security.
As  was  pointed  out  during  the  open  debate  in 
the  Security  Council  on  20  October  (see  S/PV.7539), 
improvement  of  the  Council’s  working  methods  is 
crucial.  However,  it  cannot  be  a  substitute  for  the 
urgently needed structural reform of the Council. We, 
the  G-4,  along  with  many  more  Member  States,  are 
convinced  that  a  more  representative,  legitimate  and 
effective  Security  Council  is  needed  more  than  ever 
in order to address the global conflicts and crises that 
have multiplied in recent years. We share the view that 
this can be achieved only by reflecting the reality of the 
world in the twenty-first century, when more Member 
States  have  the  capacity  and  willingness  to  take  on 
the crucial responsibility of maintaining international 
peace and security. Inclusiveness is the key phrase, and 
here I direct my view to Africa first and foremost.
The  roll-over  decision  69/560  of  14  September 
stipulates that the General Assembly must immediately 
continue 
intergovernmental  negotiations  based  on 
the  text  presented  by  its  President  at  the  sixty-ninth 
session  in  his  letter  dated  31  July  2015.  That  was  a 
veritable  milestone  for  all  those  in  favour  of  a  more 
15-34211
7/24
A/70/PV.43 
30/10/2015
representative,  more  legitimate  and  more  effective 
Security  Council.  Nearly  120  delegations  contributed 
actively to the framework document that will serve as 
the vantage point for text-based negotiations during the 
upcoming round of the intergovernmental negotiations.
We  cannot  afford  to  lose  the  newly  gained 
momentum. Leadership of the process will be crucial 
during the stage that lies ahead during this seventieth 
session.  We  therefore  commend  you,  Mr.  President, 
for  having  appointed  Ms.  Sylvie  Lucas  as  the  new 
Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  to  steer 
this  process  leading  to  a  resolution  reflecting  the 
results  of  these  negotiations.  We  are  fully  confident 
that  Ambassador  Lucas  will  advance  the  process 
and  bring  it  to  a  successful  conclusion  accepted  by 
the  wide  majority  of  Members.  The  past  session  of 
the  General  Assembly  was  procedural  in  nature  with 
respect  to  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  Based 
on the results achieved during that session, we expect 
the intergovernmental negotiations to produce progress 
in  substance  under  the  new  Chairperson  during  this 
seventieth session.
In  conclusion,  let  me  also  mention  that  we  would 
welcome more continuity in the Chairperson’s office to 
ensure the smooth continuation of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  process  and  to  avoid  the  kind  of  undue 
disruption that we have witnessed recently.
Mr.  Sauer  (Finland):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 
on  behalf  of  the  Nordic  countries:  Denmark,  Iceland, 
Norway, Sweden, and my own country, Finland. 
First, let me commend you, Mr. President, for your 
commitment to this important topic. We firmly believe 
that  it  is  possible  to  move  forward  in  reforming  the 
Security  Council  under  your  able  leadership.  Reform 
is  long  overdue.  We  have  the  responsibility  to  fulfil 
the promises made by our leaders at the World Summit 
10 years ago.
Allow me to congratulate Ambassador Sylvie Lucas, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg,  on  her 
appointment as the new Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations.  Let  me  assure  her  of  the  full  support  of 
the Nordic countries in the upcoming negotiations. We 
look  forward  to  engaging  in  the  process  actively  and 
constructively, based on decision 69/560.
I should also like to pay tribute to Ambassador Courtenay 
Rattray,  Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica,  for 
leading  the  informal  consultations  during  the  sixty-
ninth session and for his tireless efforts to push forward 
the complicated and sensitive quest of Security Council 
reform.  We  welcome  the  much-needed  dynamic  his 
stewardship brought to the process.
We  look  forward  to  making  tangible  progress 
during  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly  under 
your  guidance,  Sir.  Let  me  underline  that  the  Nordic 
countries  will  remain  fully  committed  to  Security 
Council  reform  in  order  to  address  better  and  more 
effectively  the  urgent  global  challenges  of  today  and 
tomorrow.
Mr.  Lamek  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  First,  I 
would like to welcome the appointment of Ambassador 
Sylvie  Lucas  as  facilitator  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  know 
that we can count on her dynamism and experience to 
make real progress towards far-reaching reform of the 
Council.  France  will  fully  support  her  to  ensure  that 
she is successful.
General Assembly discussions on Security Council 
reform have gone on for almost two decades. We must 
recognize that we have not yet reached a conclusion on 
the  matter.  Nonetheless,  with  Ambassador  Courtenay 
Rattray  at  its  helm  —  whose  outstanding  work  and 
consultative and inclusive methods I commend — the 
work  undertaken  during  the  Assembly’s  sixty-ninth 
session produced an initial outcome that was supported 
by  the  vast  majority  of  Member  States.  France  hopes 
that  the  outcome  of  this  work  will  serve  as  a  basis 
for  the  next  cycle  of  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
to  be  held  during  this  session,  in  line  with  decision 
69/560,  which the Assembly adopted by consensus on 
14 September. We now need to start negotiating a text 
as soon as possible on this basis. We are counting on the 
new facilitator to strive to that end.
The  seventieth  anniversary  of  our  Organization 
must  serve  as  an  opportunity  for  Member  States  to 
finally reach agreement on far-reaching reform. This is 
an historic opportunity to show that the United Nations 
is far from being fossilized and is able to reform itself. 
This reform is fundamental. The Security Council must 
better reflect the reality of today’s world. Its reform is 
crucial to bolstering the prestige and representativeness 
of our collective security system, while preserving its 
executive and decision-making nature.
France’s position on this issue is well known. We 
want  the  Security  Council  to  take  into  consideration 
the emergence of new Powers that have the resolve and 
ability  to  shoulder  the  responsibility  of  a  permanent 
8/24 
15-34211
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.43
presence in the Security Council and that are, in line 
with the Charter of the United Nations, able to make an 
important contribution to the work of the Council. To 
that end, France supports the candidacies of Germany, 
Brazil, India and Japan as permanent members of the 
Security  Council,  as  well  as  a  reinforced  presence  of 
African  countries  as  permanent  and  non-permanent 
members.
In the same spirit of reform, France has proposed 
that  the  five  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council voluntarily and collectively suspend the use of 
their  veto  in  cases  of  mass  atrocities.  This  voluntary 
step requires no revision of the Charter but a political 
commitment. France has already made that commitment. 
The  President  of  the  Republic  clearly  indicated  it 
here  in  this  Hall  on  28  September  (see  A/70/PV.13). 
This  is  an  extremely  important  decision  on  behalf  of 
international  security,  peace  and  relegitimized  and 
renewed multilateralism. This initiative, which we have 
put forward together with Mexico, is now supported by 
some 85 countries. Along the same lines, the code of 
conduct  developed  by  the  Accountability,  Coherence 
and  Transparency  group,  which  France  supports,  also 
enjoys very considerable support. 
Buoyed  by  this  we  positive  trend,  we  hope  that 
we will be able to persuade other Member States,  in 
particular the other permanent members of the Council, 
to join with us. It is in the common interest of all Member 
States that the Security Council be able to carry out its 
mandate and play its full role, in particular when faced 
with  situations  of  mass  atrocities.  These  initiatives 
on  the  use  of  the  right  of  veto  are  complementary  to 
the  global  reform  of  the  Council,  which  France  will 
continue  to  advocate.  It  behoves  us  all  collectively  to 
assume our responsibilities to develop the status quo in 
the interests of the United Nations.
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  I  thank  you, 
Mr. President, for the opportunity to offer some brief 
remarks  on  the  topic  of  Security  Council  reform  this 
year.
First,  I  should  like  to  thank  Ambassador  Rattray, 
who  has  steered  the  work  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations in a skilful and effective way for the past 
year. He has shown the resolve and courage necessary 
to make even one step forward towards a real process of 
negotiation, in which we still do not find ourselves after 
several years. If we ever get to that point, Ambassador 
Rattray will have made a very important contribution 
to that.
Secondly, I should like to thank Ambassador Lucas 
for taking on this role for the next session. We cannot 
think  of  a  better  person  to  lead  the  negotiations  on 
Security Council reform for the future, and we pledge 
our full support to her.
We have noted with concern over the past year the 
strong resistance among a small number of Members to 
any real progress in the intergovernmental negotiations, 
even though the process we were engaged in was fully 
transparent.  We  also  note  with  concern  the  pressure 
exercised on the Chair in this respect, even though he 
led the work of the intergovernmental negotiations in a 
flawless manner. If that trend were to continue, we would 
probably have to question our ability and willingness to 
engage  in  these  negotiations  and  consider  alternative 
formats. It is our hope that this session will allow us, 
under the leadership of Ambassador Lucas, to focus on 
the substance of the issues under the strong leadership 
of the Chair, as is customary in this building.
As  is  well  known,  in  our  national  capacity  we 
made  an  expansion  proposal  a  number  of  years  ago. 
Liechtenstein proposed the creation of a new category 
of  seats  that  would  be  long-term  —  for  example,  10 
years — and immediately renewable and would thereby 
allow  States  to  serve  permanently  on  the  Security 
Council if the membership mandated them to do so. The 
proposal obviously would not lead to the creation of any 
new  veto  rights  and  would  be  subject  to  a  mandatory 
review of all aspects of Security Council reform after a 
defined period of time.
It is well known that my delegation is very strongly 
committed to the improvement of the working methods 
of  the  Security  Council.  We  believe  that  this  is  an 
indispensable  part  of  Security  Council  reform.  There 
are obvious changes that would need to be made in the 
Council’s working methods if and when it is enlarged 
under  any  enlargement  model.  Very  obvious  areas 
are  the  majority  required  for  adoption  of  a  resolution 
in the Council, as well as the Council presidency and 
its  distribution  in  such  a  way  that  each  State  gets  to 
serve in this capacity at least once during its Security 
Council term.
In the meantime, as has been the case over the past 
20  years,  we  look  to  the  Security  Council  to  change 
its  working  methods  in  its  current  composition.  It  is 
against  that  background  that  we  were  very  happy  on 
Friday to launch the code of conduct on voting in the 
Security  Council  on  behalf  of  the  Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  group.  The  code  of 
15-34211
9/24
A/70/PV.43 
30/10/2015
conduct,  now  supported  by  106  States,  is  a  pledge  to 
take meaningful action in the Security Council to end 
and prevent atrocity crimes and to not vote against any 
meaningful, credible proposals submitted to that end.
We are very grateful to all States that have pledged 
their support for the code of conduct. We ask all States 
to equally give their support to the political declaration 
proposed  by  France  and  we  look  forward  to  have 
additional States joining the code of conduct.
Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Chinese  delegation 
thanks  you,  Mr.  President, 
for  convening  today’s  meeting.  We  welcome  your 
appointment  of  Ambassador  Lucas,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Luxembourg,  as  Chair  of 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.  We  encourage  her  to  be  objective  and  fair  in 
her work, in accordance with the mandate of resolution 
62/557, to build bridges among Member States, and to 
help all Member States to narrow their differences and 
make compromises on the issue of Council reform.
Security  Council  reform  bears  on  the  common 
interests  of  all  Member  States  and  the  long-term 
interests  of  the  United  Nations.  China  has  always 
actively  supported  reasonable  and  necessary  reform 
of  the  Council  aimed  at  enhancing  its  efficiency  and 
authority,  increasing  the  representation  of  and  giving 
a stronger voice to the developing countries, especially 
African  countries,  and  affording  more  opportunities 
to  more  countries,  especially  the  small  and  medium-
sized  countries  that  account  for  the  majority  of  the 
membership  to  participate  in  the  decisions  of  the 
Security Council and play a greater role.
In  accordance  with  decision  62/557  and 
the 
consensus  of  Member  States,  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  should 
be  led  by  the  Member  States.  China  hopes  that  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform at the current session of the General Assembly 
will  turn  over  a  new  page,  return  to  the  correct, 
membership-driven  track,  and  build  on  the  positions 
taken,  the  proposals  and  suggestions  put  forward  and 
the efforts made by all countries since the launch of the 
negotiations in 2009. 
We  hope  that  Member  States  will  continue  to 
participate  constructively  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations, seek a package solution through extensive 
and  democratic  consultations,  and  reach  the  broadest 
possible  consensus.  No  artificial  deadline  should  be 
set  for  reform,  and  no  immature  reform  proposals 
should be forcibly promoted. China would like to work 
jointly with all countries to advance Council reform in 
a  direction  that  conforms  to  the  common  interests  of 
all  Member  States  and  the  long-term  interests  of  the 
United Nations.
Mr.  Bamrungphong  (Thailand):  As  we  celebrate 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations  this 
year,  it  is  a  good  opportunity  to  remind  ourselves 
that  the  United  Nations  can  only  be  as  strong  and  as 
effective as Member States want and make it to be. The 
reform of the Security Council is no exception. It can be 
possible only if Member States are willing to be more 
flexible and are prepared to engage in negotiations that 
are constructive, pragmatic and results-oriented.
The  decision  made  at  the  last  round  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  was  a  significant  step 
in  our  collective  efforts.  The  process  leading  up  to  it 
provided us with an opportunity to exchange views in an 
interactive, inclusive and transparent manner. I take this 
opportunity to express our appreciation to Ambassador 
Courtenay  Rattray,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Jamaica, for his hard work and dedication throughout 
the last round of the intergovernmental negotiations. We 
also  welcome  the  appointment  of  Ambassador  Sylvie 
Lucas,  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg,  as 
the next Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations and 
wish her success in this very important responsibility. 
In this regard, allow me to share the following views in 
this debate. 
First,  Thailand  belongs  to  no  specific  group 
and  has  always  been  open  to  all  ideas  and  proposals 
on  the  expansion  of  membership  of  the  Security 
Council,  including  the  expansion  of  both  categories 
or the introduction of interim or intermediate options. 
However,  settling  only  the  issue  of  expansion  of 
membership is far from adequate if the overall reform 
process  is  to  be  successful.  Any  expansion  must  take 
into  account  a  greater  and  more  equitable  regional 
representation.  Most  importantly,  it  must  prove  to 
be  useful  in  enhancing  the  Council’s  efficiency  and 
effectiveness.
Secondly, Thailand firmly believes that improvement 
in  the  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  is 
necessary for a more transparent and effective Council. 
Improving the working methods should be a continuing 
process  and  should  not  be  held  hostage  to  the  overall 
reform  of  the  Council.  We  welcome  the  Council’s 
10/24 
15-34211
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.43
ongoing efforts to convene open debates and engage in 
informative discussions on this subject.
institutionalization  of 
On  this  note,  we  also  welcome  the  ongoing 
efforts  to  strengthen  the  closer  coordination  and 
collaboration  between  the  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly, two principal organs of the United Nations, 
in accordance with their respective mandates, through 
the 
regular  consultations 
between  the  Presidents  of  the  two  bodies.  Interaction 
helps  to  ensure  transparency  in  the  deliberations  of 
the Council. Thailand believes that the Council can be 
transparent  only  if  it  is  accessible.  In  this  regard,  we 
urge members of the Council to continue to engage the 
wider membership of the United Nations, particularly 
on issues with broader impact and complexity.
Thirdly,  we  firmly  believe  that  the  principle  of 
accountability should guide the work of the Council’s 
members,  permanent  and  elected  alike.  The  world 
needs  a  Council  that  can  act  together  in  a  decisive, 
responsible and timely manner to stop genocide, crimes 
against  humanity  or  war  crimes.  Countries  on  the 
Security  Council,  especially  the  permanent  members, 
have a heavy responsibility to humankind. They must 
therefore  demonstrate  greater  leadership  and  political 
will  to  take  decisive  action  against  such  vast  scale 
humanitarian catastrophes resulting from conflicts.
For this reason, Thailand supports the two initiatives 
that are on the table: the suspension of the veto in case of 
mass atrocities, put forward by France and Mexico, and 
the code of conduct regarding Security Council action 
against  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  and  war 
crimes, put forward by the Accountability, Coherence 
and Transparency group.
We have come a long way since 1946, when there 
were  only  11  members  on  the  Security  Council.  We 
must take this opportunity to ensure that the important 
work  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  continues 
by  building  on  the  work  done  at  the  last  session  in  a 
consultative manner, while aiming at taking on board 
the broadest participation possible. We look forward to 
participating  in  a  constructive,  substantive  discussion 
on  the  way  forward  for  greater  representation  on 
and  greater    credibility,  legitimacy  and,  above  all, 
effectiveness of the Security Council, and in the hope 
of seeing a clearer basis for the future progress of our 
work.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): The time has undoubtedly come for Security 
Council  reform.  The  question  is  how  to  implement  it 
so that it strengthens not only the Council itself but the 
Organization  as  a  whole.  It  is  important  to  strive  for 
a  final  outcome  that  will  truly  help  to  strengthen  the 
position  of  developing  States,  which  we  support,  and 
not entrench current positions.
We  congratulate  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  Luxembourg,  Sylvie  Lucas,  on  her  appointment  as 
coordinator of the intergovernmental negotiations. We 
trust that her work will help to establish a constructive 
atmosphere  for  negotiations 
to  find  a 
mutually acceptable solution. We thank the Permanent 
Representative  Courtenay  Rattray  of  Jamaica  for  his 
work in that post at the previous session of the General 
Assembly.  We  also  wish  to  highlight  the  work  of  the 
former Permanent Representative of Afghanistan Zahir 
Tanin in that job over many years.
in  order 
Russia  recognizes  the  need  to  make  the  Security 
Council  more  representative.  However,  efforts  in 
this  area  should  not  have  an  impact  on  the  Council’s 
ability to react swiftly and effectively to contemporary 
challenges. In this context, we are in favour of retaining 
the    compact  character  of  the  Council’s  composition. 
The  optimal  number  of  members  of  the  Security 
Council  should  not  exceed  20.  That  would  guarantee 
for non-permanent members an opportunityto preside 
over the Council. 
It  would  be  naïve  to  claim  that  the  reformed  and 
expanded  Council  would  easily  find  solutions  to  the 
problems that the present Council has failed to address. 
Political  contradictions  would  not  simply  disappear, 
while the work on the texts of decisions would only be 
further complicated. 
We  are  not  going  to  hide  the  fact  that  any  idea 
tending  to  undermine  the  existing  prerogatives  of 
the  permanent  members,  including  the  right  of  veto, 
is  unacceptable  to  us.  We  recall  that  this  right  is  an 
important  factor  that  helps  members  of  the  Council 
to  strike  balanced  decisions.  It  is  also  important  to 
understand that the right of veto protects not only the 
interests of those who enjoy it, but also the interests of 
the countries of a region that do not have the right of 
veto but in its absence would be vulnerable to pressure 
from well-known groups of States.
During 11 rounds of intergovernmental negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform,  Member  States  have 
managed  to  achieve  something.  Many  aspects  of  the 
problem  have  become  clearer.  However,  a  universal 
15-34211
11/24
A/70/PV.43 
30/10/2015
decision  that  would  be  satisfactory  to  everybody  has 
not  yet  appeared.  We  fully  support  the  idea  that  the 
process of Security Council reform should be owned by 
every  single  Member  State  and  that  its  final  outcome 
should be supported as broadly as possible by Members 
of the Organization. 
We  are  convinced  that  Security  Council  reform 
cannot  be  concluded  arithmetically  by  calculating 
different models of votes in order to seek the minimal 
number  of  votes.  A  result  achieved  that  way  would 
undoubtedly  undermine  the  authority  of  the  Council 
and would not strengthen the United Nations. Rather, 
it would do the opposite. We are therefore prepared to 
consider any sensible option for expanding the Council, 
including interim provisions and compromise solutions, 
if it were to enjoy the broadest possible support within 
the United Nations.
Furthermore,  the  negotiations  have  revealed  the 
prevalence  of 
sometimes  diametrically  opposed 
opinions. We therefore see no alternative at this session 
of the General Assembly than to work carefully to bring 
positions closer together. We trust that the efforts of the 
President of the General Assembly and the negotiations 
facilitator will help to achieve optimal agreement in the 
negotiations, on the understanding that the ownership of 
the process remains with the Member States. This work 
should take place in a calm, transparent and inclusive 
environment  without  arbitrarily  imposed  deadlines 
or  frenzied  speculation.  The  matter  of  reforming  any 
institution,  let  alone  the  most  important,  should  not 
complicate the real work of our Organization, finding 
responses to the numerous challenges facing humanity 
today.
Let us not forget the most important thing. Progress 
in  reforming  the  Security  Council  depends  on  the 
political  resolve  and  readiness  of  Member  States  to 
find a sensible compromise, and on that alone. In that 
regard. methodology is a secondary issue.
Mr.  Mukerji  (India):  My  delegation  aligns  itself 
with  the  statements  made  earlier  by  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Saint  Lucia  on  behalf  of  the  L.69 
group  and  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Germany 
on behalf of the Group of Four.
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  compliment  you, 
Mr.  President,  on  convening  this  important  debate 
under  agenda  item  121,  which  has  been  a  matter  of 
discussion  in  the  General  Assembly  for  more  than 
two  decades,  and  ever  since  my  country  joined  other 
developing countries in September 1992 in submitting 
resolution 47/62. We note the significance of decision 
69/560,  of  14  September  2015,  which  was  adopted 
unanimously under the presidency of your predecessor, 
Mr. Sam Kutesa. That has given us a negotiating text 
for  implementing  the  mandate  our  leaders  adopted  at 
the  World  Summit  of  2005  for  early  reforms  of  the 
Security Council.
We  would  like  to  acknowledge  and  compliment 
Ambassador Courtenay Rattray of Jamaica for having 
successfully given our intergovernmental negotiations 
process the negotiating text of 31 July.
We are happy, Sir, to have received your letter of 
23  October  informing  us  of  your  decision  to  appoint 
a  new  chairperson  for  these  negotiations  during  this 
historic seventieth session and for providing her with a 
clear mandate to conduct these negotiations on the basis 
of the text of 31 July, which was, we note, unanimously 
endorsed in decision 69/560. We are happy to share with 
the  General  Assembly  the  common  position  adopted 
yesterday at the third India-Africa Forum Summit for 
early implementation of decision 69/560 so as to make 
a decisive push for achieving concrete outcomes on the 
reforms of the Security Council. 
We  commit  ourselves  at  this  meeting  —  which 
is  the  first  time  we  are  speaking  on  this  issue  at  this 
session — to work in good faith through the give and 
take of negotiations with the Chairperson to reach our 
common  objective  of  concrete  outcomes  during  this 
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  especially  look 
forward  to  engaging  with  Member  States  that  have 
expressed important views this morning but have yet to 
contribute to the 31 July text in this context. We would 
of  course  expect  to  apply  the  provisions  of  resolution 
53/30,  of  23  November  1998,  which  we  unanimously 
adopted  and  which  sets  a  benchmark  of  a  two  thirds 
majority for taking decisions on this important issue.
We  note  that  an  ineffective  Security  Council  has 
entailed  huge  human,  economic  and  environmental 
costs  in  terms  of  wars  and  conflicts,  which  the 
international  community  cannot  justify  any  longer. 
The figures speak for themselves, but today we would 
like  to  highlight  especially  the  more  than  60  million 
people  affected  by  these  conflicts,  which  are  due  to 
the  malfunctioning  of  the  Security  Council.  Given 
that  most  of  these  conflicts  are  occurring  in  areas 
consisting  of    developing  countries,  we  believe  that  a 
greater representation of developing countries in both 
12/24 
15-34211
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.43
categories of an expanded Security Council would help 
to address this problem urgently.
encourage  all  Member  States  to  join  us  and  give  you 
their backing.
We would emphasize that our work cannot be seen 
in isolation. The very fact that our leaders unanimously 
adopted the most ambitious 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  to  eradicate  poverty 
from the face of the Earth within our generation gives 
our work a context and framework. The longer we delay 
in  reforming  the  Security  Council,  the  more  pressure 
we  put  on  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda, 
especially for developing countries.
We have two specific requests related to the process 
to make for consideration today. First, we would request 
the  announcement  of  a  fixed  schedule  of  meetings  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  beginning  from 
early  next  month,  at  a  regular  interval,  to  commence 
text-based  negotiations.  All  Member  States  should 
be informed in advance of the frequency, agenda and 
schedule  of  these  meetings.  They  should  be,  in  our 
view,  held  at  least  once  a  week,  given  the  urgency  of 
the subject.
the  newly  appointed  Chairperson  of 
Secondly,  we  look  forward  to  the  circulation  of  a 
communication,  under  your  authority,  Mr.  President, 
from 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations, conveying the agenda 
of each of these sessions of the seventieth session, which 
would of course be based on the decision taken by the 
General  Assembly  earlier  on  the  five  clusters.  This 
will  help  delegations  obtain  their  updated  negotiating 
mandates  for  the  listed  areas  of  negotiations  in  good 
time.
In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  reiterate  what 
my  Prime  Minister,  Mr.  Narendra  Modi,  said  in  his 
statement to this Assembly last month: 
the  United  Nations, 
“We  must  also  reform 
including the Security Council. That is essential if 
we are to ensure that our institutions have greater 
credibility  and  legitimacy.  With  a  more  broad-
based representation, we can be more effective in 
achieving our goals.” (A/70/PV.4, p. 18)
Mr. Wilson (United Kingdom): I pay tribute to the 
work  of  your  predecessor,  Mr.  President,  and  that  of 
Ambassador Rattray over the past year. They brought 
much-needed energy and innovation to a debate which 
has been dormant for too long. We know that you and 
Ambassador Lucas will approach reform of the Security 
Council  with  the  same  vigour.  You  can  count  on  the 
support  of  the  United  Kingdom  in  your  efforts,  and  I 
As  my  Foreign  Secretary  made  clear  when  he 
addressed  the  General  Assembly  in  September  (see 
A/70/PV.18),  the  United  Nations  needs  a  reformed 
Security Council. Earlier this week, we celebrated the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations.  In  this 
milestone year, we owe it to ourselves to make much-
needed progress in reforming the Security Council. We 
need a Council which is representative of today’s world 
and  able  to  respond  effectively  to  the  challenges  that 
we face.
The  compilation  text  compiled  by  Ambassador 
Rattray  is  a  good  start,  and  we  look  forward  to 
building  on  that  work  in  the  year  ahead.  The  United 
Kingdom’s own position on Security Council reform is 
clear. We support permanent representation for Brazil, 
India,  Germany  and  Japan  and  permanent  African 
representation.  When  considering  the  overall  size  of 
a reformed Council we must not reduce the Council’s 
ability  to  act  decisively  when  called  upon  to  address 
threats to international peace and security.
The  United  Kingdom  will  continue  to  advocate 
for reform from within the Security Council so that it 
remains fit for purpose in the twenty-first century. We 
are proud to have been the first permanent member of 
the Council to sign up to the Accountability, Coherence 
and  Transparency  group’s  code  of  conduct  for  the 
Security  Council.  In  doing  so,  we  have  sent  a  clear 
message: the United Kingdom will never vote against 
a credible Security Council draft resolution that seeks 
to  prevent  or  respond  to  genocide,  ethnic  cleansing, 
crimes  against  humanity  and  war  crimes.  I  hope  all 
Security  Council  members,  both  present  and  future, 
will join us in making that pledge.
Next  week  the  United  Kingdom  will  assume 
the  presidency  of  the  Security  Council.  We  will 
discharge  our  responsibilities  in  a  transparent  and 
efficient manner so that Council meetings are as open, 
interactive and effective as possible. We will be ready 
to respond quickly to emerging or developing situations 
so that the Council is, and is seen to be, discharging its 
responsibilities efficiently and effectively.
I wish you, Sir, and Ambassador Lucas and all of us 
every success in the year ahead.
Ms. Sison (United States of America): It is indeed 
appropriate for us to meet early in this new session of 
the  General  Assembly  to  discuss  the  important  issue 
15-34211
13/24
A/70/PV.43 
30/10/2015
of  Security  Council  reform.  My  delegation  welcomes 
the chance to continue this essential discussion with the 
membership.
We warmly welcome the appointment of Ambassador 
Sylvie  Lucas  as  Chair  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  also  wish  to  thank  Ambassador 
Courtenay Rattray for his strong leadership during his 
tenure.
the 
I  hope  that  you,  Mr.  President,  and  the  Chair,  as 
well  as  the  wider  membership  here  today,  know  that 
the United States is committed to working with other 
Members  to  achieve  broad  consensus  on  a  reformed 
Council,  a  Council  that  reflects  the  realities  of  the 
twenty-first century. As we have said before, the United 
States  is  open  to  a  modest  expansion,  in  principle,  in 
both  permanent  and  non-permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council.
We do not support changes to the veto. We consider 
the intergovernmental negotiations to be the best forum 
for advancing discussion on Security Council reform. 
We  believe  that  any  approach  to  this  issue  should 
enhance  the  Council’s  effectiveness  and  efficiency 
in  carrying  out  the  responsibilities  conferred  upon  it 
under the Charter of the United Nations.
Council  membership  carries  great  responsibility. 
Thus we believe that any consideration of an expansion 
of  permanent  members  must  take  into  account  the 
ability and willingness of countries to contribute to the 
maintenance of international peace and security and to 
other purposes of the United Nations.
We  look  to  engage  with  fellow  Member  States 
on  an  intergovernmental  negotiations  process  that 
is  deliberate  and  inclusive,  given  the  importance  of 
Security Council reform, the complexity of the issues 
and the divergence of views among Member States. For 
any reform to be successful, it is crucial that proposals 
enjoy broad support among all Member States.
We note that some Member States have called for 
the start of text-based negotiations. The United States 
is  neutral  on  all  manner  of  negotiation  within  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  framework  as  long  as 
it furthers the broad consensus that is needed to reach 
comprehensive  international  agreement  on  Council 
reform. We are cognizant of the fact that differences of 
opinion remain on the text on which negotiations would 
be based and that not all Member States have endorsed a 
common approach. The intergovernmental negotiations 
Chair can certainly help steer this process, but general 
agreement on a common approach is crucial.
We  believe  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  to 
be the best forum for finding a comprehensive solution 
that can generate the broadest support among Member 
States. We pledge our support to Ambassador Lucas and 
to all Member States that seek constructive engagement 
on Council reform.
Mr.  Bodini  (San  Marino):  I  want  to  congratulate 
you,  Mr.  President,  on 
appointment  of 
Ambassador  Lucas  as  Chair  of  the  Security  Council 
reform  intergovernmental  negotiations.  I  take  this 
opportunity  to  thank  Ambassador  Rattray  for  last 
year’s contribution to this process.
the 
I  am  happy  Ambassador  Lucas,  Permanent 
Representative of a small State, has been selected for 
this  important  task.  As  is  known,  small  States  like 
San Marino rely heavily on the United Nations and its 
values.
One of our greatest privileges is the right to vote, 
in  particular  for  the  elected  members  of  the  Security 
Council.  The  Council,  at  the  core  of  the  United 
Nations  system,  needs  to  become  more  democratic, 
accountable  and  efficient.  That  is  why  San  Marino 
seeks an enlarged —with  elected members only — and 
geographically balanced Council. I am sure that under 
Ambassador  Lucas’s  stewardship  the  Council  reform 
process will be predictable and transparent and involve 
great interaction among the Member States. I hope that 
at  the  end  of  this  new  round  of  negotiations  we  will 
reach a compromise solution among all Member States, 
from  the  five  permanent  members  to  a  small  country 
like ours.
I am afraid that there will be a terrible mistake if 
this attempt brings us to a divisive vote. An issue of this 
importance needs to find a solution with the consensus 
of a very large majority. This process requires standard 
diplomatic skills. I am pleased Ambassador Lucas has 
already shown a great ability in past negotiations.
Mr. Percaya (Indonesia): I thank you, Mr. President, 
for  convening  this  important  debate.  My  delegation 
would  also  like  to  congratulate  Ambassador  Sylvie 
Lucas,  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg,  on 
her  appointment  as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations at the seventieth session.
My delegation notes that over the years, including at 
the previous session of the General Assembly, Member 
14/24 
15-34211
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.43
States continued to reaffirm their common desire and 
aspiration for reforming the Security Council to make it 
more inclusive, representative, legitimate, accountable 
and effective. Yet strong divergence persists on how to 
achieve the reform, and that has meant that this process 
has hardly made meaningful progress up to today.
Recently, during the high-level segment of thof the 
General  Assembly,  the  majority  of  leaders  reiterated 
their  call  for  Security  Council  reform.  My  delegation 
believes that to be testament to a growing, urgent need 
for  the  Assembly  to  pursue  tangible  results  in  this 
regard.
My  delegation  recognizes 
that  some  aspects 
of  Security  Council  reform  are  being  addressed 
in  parallel  to  and  outside  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  process.  Just  recently,  more  than  100 
countries — the majority of the entire membership of 
the United Nations — joined ranks to propose a code 
of  conduct  aimed  at  limiting  the  use  of  the  veto  and 
preventing  the  Council’s  inaction,  and  at  making  it 
more effective in the face of genocide, crimes against 
humanity and war crimes. Similarly, no fewer than 80 
countries  have  extended  their  support  to  a  political 
declaration with a similar purpose, namely, to restrain 
the veto in situations of mass atrocities.
In the same vein, a step forward was recently taken 
in  pushing  the  Security  Council  to  increase  closer 
cooperation with the General Assembly, in particular in 
the process of the selection and appointment of the next 
Secretary-General. My delegation is indeed encouraged 
by this positive development.
In  the  light  of  those  current  developments  on  the 
issue  at  hand,  my  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  there 
are pertinent lessons that can be drawn from, and can 
serve as a catalyst for, our common undertaking in the 
Security Council reform process.
First,  political  commitment  at  the  highest  level 
from Member States is important to sustain and further 
advance this process. This process should also continue 
to  be  motivated  and  inspired  by  the  expression  of 
commitment and determination made in various forums 
outside the United Nations.
Secondly, progress can be made in an incremental 
manner, as attested to on issues such as the use of the 
veto  right.  The  same  approach  can  also  be  applied  to 
pursue  progress  on  other  aspects  of  Security  Council 
reform, including on the issue of membership expansion, 
categories and size.
While 
recognizing 
the  validity  of  different 
arguments and positions for pursuing expansion in the 
membership  of  the  Council,  my  delegation  maintains 
its  view  that  an  incremental  approach  is  the  most 
feasible way to make progress on the issue. A number 
of  countries  have  proposed  models  for  membership 
expansion.  Along  with  other  reform 
issues,  my 
delegation is willing to explore them with an open mind 
in the coming sessions.
My  delegation  believes  that  this  is  in  accordance 
with what our leaders called for more than 10 years ago, 
an early and comprehensive reform of the Council that 
can  be  concretely  achieved  by  enlarging  the  Council 
with  new  elected  members,  and  addressing  the  issue 
of  balance  and  equitable  representation  of  different 
regional groups.
Thirdly,  different  tracks  should  be  maintained 
and pursued in a synergized manner while at the same 
time ensuring that the intergovernmental negotiations 
process  remains  the  main  deliberative  mechanism  on 
the  issue  of  Security  Council  reform.  My  delegation 
values the various ideas and initiatives that have been 
developed by Member States in order to make progress 
on  specific  aspects  of  Security  Council  reform,  and 
is  ready  to  continue  its  engagement  in  a  constructive 
manner.
My delegation also puts great emphasis on efforts 
to  improve  the  working  methods  of  the  Council  with 
the  purpose  of  enhancing  its  effectiveness,  efficiency 
and  accountability.  In  that  connection,  my  delegation 
highly values the recent Security Council open debate 
on working methods (see S/PV.7539).
To ensure that the Security Council is fully enabled 
to  perform  its  responsibilities  —  and  its  actions  are 
owned  by  the  wider  Member  States  —  my  delegation 
believes  that  robust  cooperation,  communication,  and 
genuine consultation with and support from all Member 
States are crucial.
Lastly,  my  delegation  reaffirms  its  view  that  the 
issue  of  Security  Council  reform  is  not  an  isolated 
agenda. Instead, it is linked with other United Nations 
reform  agendas,  in  particular  the  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly.
The outcome of this reform will have great impact 
on the continued relevance and legitimacy of the United 
Nations  in  general  before  the  global  community.  A 
number  of  unresolved  conflicts  and  tensions  in  some 
parts of the world signify its shortcomings, which further 
15-34211
15/24
A/70/PV.43 
30/10/2015
undermines  its  recognized  competence.  Palestine  and 
Syria are two glaring cases where a persistent lack of 
action  by  the  Council  has  worsened  the  conditions  of 
the people and made the conflicts more intractable.
It is my delegation’s firm belief that we are now at 
a critical juncture where we have to act and mobilize 
a  stronger  common  purpose  for  real  change  in  the 
Council.
Ms.  Lodhi  (Pakistan):  Let  me,  at  the  outset,  say 
how pleased my delegation is to see you, Mr. President, 
presiding  over  the  General  Assembly  during  this 
landmark  seventieth  year  of  the  United  Nations.  You 
can  count  on  my  country’s  support  in  fulfilling  your 
responsibilities.
Pakistan fully associates itself with the statement 
delivered earlier by the representative of Italy on behalf 
of the Uniting for Consensus group. I would also like 
to  congratulate  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas,  Permanent 
Representative of Luxembourg, on her appointment as 
the  new  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
Pakistan assures her of its full cooperation.
Assembly  decision  62/557  provides  the  mandate 
for  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process.  The 
goal  set  was  to  achieve  comprehensive  reform  of 
the  Security  Council  on  five  equally  important  and 
interlinked  issues  and  to  seek  a  solution  that  could 
enjoy the widest possible political acceptance. Success 
has  eluded  us  thus  far  because  the  focus  has  been  on 
looking for procedural shortcuts rather than on genuine 
efforts to bridge divergent positions on substance.
We  can  all  agree  that  compromise  and  flexibility 
are  the  keys  to  successful  outcomes  in  multilateral 
negotiations.  In  evaluating  the  lack  of  progress  on 
Security Council reform, we have to acknowledge that 
the absence of flexibility and compromise is at the root 
of the impasse we face today.
A few countries have sought to promote their self-
arrogated  right  to  a  privileged  and  unequal  status, 
and  they  have  maintained  that  rigid  position  since 
the  process  began,  about  two  decades  ago.  It  is  that 
rigidity that is the real reason for our persistent failure 
to achieve a more democratic, accountable, transparent 
and effective Security Council. For its part, the Uniting 
for Consensus group twice revised its proposal, and it 
remains ready to engage in further dialogue.
There  is  now  a  great  deal  of  history  to  these 
negotiations. But those who do not learn from history 
are  condemned  to  repeat  it.  Two  important  lessons 
should be kept in mind. First, quick fixes and procedural 
manoeuvres have always come to nought, and secondly, 
no agreements are to be found at the extreme ends of 
political  positions.  An  honest  appraisal  of  those  facts 
will mark the first meaningful step towards reform of 
the Security Council.
negotiations 
are 
The 
intergovernmental 
a 
membership-driven process. The basis is the proposals 
and positions of Member States and negotiating groups. 
This process needs to be facilitated in good faith and in 
an open, transparent, predictable and inclusive manner, 
thus  creating  an  environment  that  preserves  mutual 
respect among Member States. 
Let me outline the basic precepts of our position on 
the substance of Security Council reform.
Pakistan  opposes  the  creation  of  new  permanent 
seats,  as  it  is  contrary  to  the  universally  agreed 
principles  of  our  time  —  democracy,  accountability 
and  transparency.  The  Security  Council  needs  to  be 
expanded in the category of elected seats, allowing more 
representation  from  Member  States.  This  has  become 
necessary  in  view  of  the  increase  in  United  Nations 
membership since the Council was last expanded, five 
decades ago.
Our  goal  is  the  democratization  of  the  Council 
through  a  reform  that  promotes  the  interests  and 
aspirations  of  all  Member  States  —  small,  medium-
sized and large.
Additional elected members in the Council will also 
have a positive impact on the Council’s accountability, 
transparency  and  working  methods.  More  elected 
members  will  enhance  regional  representation  and 
ownership, rendering the Council more legitimate.
It is often said that the Security Council needs to 
be adapted to the realities of the twenty-first century to 
enhance the Council’s legitimacy and representativeness. 
We agree, but some countries ignore what the objective 
realities  really  are.  They  focus  only  on  their  narrow 
and  contentious  interpretation  of  political  realities. 
That, if I may say so, is an illusion, and there are strong 
arguments against such an approach.
First,  States  making  that  claim  must  know  that 
many  medium-sized  States  compete  with  them  in 
any criteria of qualification, and may even surpass or 
outpace them in the future.
16/24 
15-34211
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.43
Secondly,  there  is  no  evidence  to  support  the 
argument  that  more  permanent  seats  will  enhance 
the  legitimacy  of  the  Council.  To  argue  that  more 
permanent seats will enhance the representativeness of 
the Council is disingenuous for reasons I have already 
cited.
Thirdly,  we  need  to  carefully  and  soberly  think 
whether  permanence  is  a  solution  to  present-day 
political  realities  that  are  themselves  transient.  If  the 
past has changed into the present, will the present not 
be  sure  to  change  into  the  future?  Will  we  then  be 
looking to continuously add more permanent members 
to the Security Council?
important, 
Fourthly,  and  most 
the  objective 
realities  are  in  fact  quite  different.  It  is  a  fact  that 
United  Nations  membership  has  increased  almost 
fourfold since its inception. It is a fact that more than 
one third of the United Nations membership has never 
had an opportunity to serve on the Council. It is also a 
fact that all Member States want the Council to be more 
democratic and accountable. But more permanent seats 
are the antithesis of all those objective realities.
Pakistan  distinguishes  between 
the  demands 
motivated  by  selfish  ambitions  and  the  collective 
demand of an entire continent. In that regard, we have 
always  respected  and  continue  to  respect  the  African 
Common Position. Let me reiterate that only flexibility 
and compromise will take us closer to our goal. Fixed 
positions  will  stall  and  hobble  our  efforts.  Had  there 
been flexibility on the part of the delegations that have 
unjustifiably  insisted  on  securing  permanent  seats, 
many  Member  States  would  already  have  played  a 
positive role in the Security Council. Together we would 
have contributed to international peace and security.
A  week  ago  we  celebrated 
the  seventieth 
anniversary of the United Nations. The celebration was 
essentially and fundamentally about the Charter of the 
United  Nations,  which  we  all  subscribe  to  and  which 
lays strong emphasis on democracy and accountability. 
We all pledged to respect and to promote it. We hope 
that this pledge will translate into action and will yield 
progress towards a reform of the Security Council that 
is rooted in the principles enshrined in the Charter.
Mr. De Aguiar Patriota (Brazil): Let me thank you, 
Mr. President, for convening this important meeting. 
I  start  by  saying  that  we  align  ourselves  with  the 
statement  delivered  by  Ambassador  Harald  Braun, 
Permanent Representative of Germany, on behalf of the 
Group of Four, and with the intervention of Ambassador 
Menissa Rambally, Permanent Representative of Saint 
Lucia on behalf of the L.69 group.
I want to welcome the appointment of Ambassador 
Sylvie Lucas, Permanent Representative of Luxembourg, 
as Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations. Brazil 
pledges its full support to Ambassador Lucas and her 
team in this endeavour.
As reflected in Assembly decision 69/560, adopted 
by  consensus  in  September,  and  as  highlighted  in 
your  letter,  Mr.  President,  of  23  October,  our  work 
in  the  upcoming  months  should  build  upon  the 
important  progress  achieved  during  the  latest  round 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  especially  on 
the  framework  document  prepared  by  Ambassador 
Courtenay  Rattray.  Now  that  we  finally  have  a  text 
on  the  table,  it  is  time  for  us  to  move  into  concrete 
negotiations.  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank 
Ambassador  Rattray  for  his  bold  stewardship  and  his 
strong  commitment  to  a  transparent  and  inclusive 
process.
As the United Nations turns 70, the Organization 
has demonstrated a capacity to rise to challenges in a 
variety of areas. The United Nations system has recently 
succeeded  in  adopting  an  ambitious,  forward-looking 
agenda,  with  significant  potential  for  impact  over  the 
coming  years  and  decades.  Such  is  the  nature  of  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1),  an  extraordinary  achievement  that  reflects  a 
common  vision  for  international  cooperation  on  the 
intersection  of  economic,  social  and  environmental 
concerns.
In the human rights pillar, progress has been further 
consolidated  in  the  past  years  with  the  establishment 
of the universal periodic review process, which allows 
for  the  human  rights  records  of  all  Member  States  to 
be  reviewed  and  assessed.  The  three  reports  that  are 
currently  being  considered  by  the  United  Nations 
membership — produced by the High-level Independent 
Panel on Peace Operations (see A/70/95), the Advisory 
Group of Experts on the Review of the Peacebuilding 
Architecture  (see  A/69/968)  and  the  authors  of  the 
global study on the implementation of Security Council 
resolution 1325 (2000) — represent a solid foundation 
to  underpin  our  discussions  on  the  review  of  the 
policies and practices of the Organization concerning 
international peace and security. Notwithstanding those 
important  discussions,  we  will  not  be  able  to  address 
the Organization’s growing credibility gap on matters 
15-34211
17/24
A/70/PV.43 
30/10/2015
related  to  peace  and  security  if  we  do  not  adapt  the 
anachronistic  structure  and  dynamics  of  the  Security 
Council to the geopolitical realities of the twenty-first 
century.
There  is  an  emerging  consensus  that  the  United 
Nations  needs  to  update  its  governance  mechanisms 
and establish a renewed commitment to searching for 
solutions through more effective cooperative efforts in 
the  field  of  promoting  peace  and  security.  At  a  time 
when we face the largest refugee crisis since the Second 
World War and the number of civilian victims of armed 
conflicts  worldwide  continues  to  increase,  we  cannot 
afford to allow the Security Council to have its authority 
eroded, bringing discredit on the entire United Nations.
If  our  goal  is  to  have  a  more  functional  Security 
Council,  perpetuating  the  geopolitical  status  quo  by 
an expansion restricted to the non-permanent category 
is  not  an  option.  Brazil  firmly  believes  that  the  only 
way to ensure a more efficient and democratic Security 
Council  is  through  an  expansion  that  includes  new 
permanent members. Let us recall that there are entire 
regions of the world that are absent from the permanent 
member category, Africa being a case in point, as well 
as Latin America and the Caribbean.
Last  Saturday,  we  celebrated  70  years  of  the 
entering into force of the Charter of the United Nations. 
When the Charter was signed, in 1945, the Organization 
had  51  Member  States  and  the  Security  Council  was 
composed  of  11  members  —  five  permanent  and  six 
non-permanent. By the early 1960s, the United Nations 
membership had doubled to around 115 members, so an 
expansion of the Council was envisaged and arduously 
won,  leading  to  the  inclusion  of  four  additional 
non-permanent seats.
Today  the  United  Nations  is  composed  of  193 
Member  States,  while  the  Security  Council  continues 
to function under the same format, with the permanent 
membership category never having been altered. That 
is  to  say,  the  Council  still  reflects  a  mid-twentieth 
century  diplomatic  environment  even  as  we  enter  the 
second  half  of  the  second  decade  of  the  twenty-first 
century. If we are to establish a renewed international 
compact  to  deal  with  peace  and  security  through 
international law and multilateralism, we cannot forego 
our  responsibility  in  dealing  with  this  matter.  The 
alternatives are too dramatic to contemplate.
Mr. Cardi (Italy), Vice-President, took the Chair
There is no longer any justification for evading this 
challenge, especially when other daunting tasks before 
the  international  community  are  being  dealt  with 
multilaterally. This was, as I mentioned, the case with 
the  2030  Agenda,  but  it  will  also  be,  I  am  confident, 
the  case  with  the  climate  change  negotiations.  Those 
are truly complex agendas. Our task is comparatively 
simple. The President and Ambassador Lucas can help 
Member  States  make  it  happen  during  the  seventieth 
session of the General Assembly.
Mr.  Díaz  de  la  Guardia  Beuno  (Spain)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  At  the  outset,  I  wish  to  express  my 
appreciation  to  the  President  for  the  interest  he  is 
showing on the issue of reforming the Security Council, 
in  close  collaboration  with  all  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations.
We  warmly  congratulate  Ambassador  Sylvie 
Lucas  on  her  appointment  to  her  important  position. 
She  can  count  on  Spain’s  full  support.  I  should  also 
like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  her  predecessor, 
Ambassador Rattray, for his work during his mandate.
We  fully  endorse  the  statement  delivered  earlier 
by the Permanent Representative of Italy on behalf of 
the Uniting for Consensus group. I should like to make 
some additional comments.
After  working  for  a  long  time  on  the  process  of 
reforming  the  Security  Council,  my  delegation  has 
learned  that  our  strength  comes  from  unity,  whereas 
divisive  approaches  and  actions  only  lead  to  delays 
and further complications. The States Members of the 
United Nations share the goal of a more representative, 
accountable, effective and democratic Security Council. 
If we are to achieve that goal, then we must stand ready 
to  consider  new  ideas  and  build  bridges  between  the 
various  groups  and  positions.  I  address  Ambassador 
Lucas  to  say  that  achieving  that  objective  requires  of 
us  a  totally  transparent  and  inclusive  process  based 
on broad-based consultations and ensuring a constant 
exchange  of  information,  without  unjustified  haste  or 
artificial  deadlines.  We  have  every  confidence  in  her 
experience and ability to successfully fulfil this task.
We  are  eager  to  see  a  modern  version  of  the 
Security  Council  that  is  more  representative  and 
influential,  where  we  see  a  reflection  of  the  changes 
that have taken place in recent years and the ability to 
adapt  itself  to  future  changes.  We  especially  want  to 
see a Council where small States and African countries 
also  can  make  their  voices  heard.  Spain  believes  that 
18/24 
15-34211
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.43
increasing  their  presence  will  help  make  the  Council 
more representative. But we need much more than that. 
We also believe that we must increase the possibilities 
for all Member States to sit on the Council on a periodic 
basis.  The  best  way  to  achieve  that  objective  is  to 
increase  the  number  of  elected  seats,  which  is  a  step 
that  would  also  make  the  Council  a  more  democratic 
and accountable body vis-à-vis all the Members of the 
Organization. 
Members  all  know  that  my  country  is  against 
creating  new  permanent  seats,  for  we  believe  that 
would  not  make  the  Council  more  representative  or 
effective.  On  the  contrary,  we  would  be  creating  an 
exclusive Council rather than a more inclusive one and 
would be turning our back on the need to make it more 
democratic and more credible.
We need a responsible and effective Council. Those 
two characteristics go hand in hand. Spain supports the 
idea of allowing those Member States that want to make 
a  meaningful contribution  to the work of the Council 
to serve on it for longer periods and more frequently. 
Spain  believes  in  a  Security  Council  based  on  merit, 
not priviliges.
My  delegation  shares  the  proposal  of  the  Uniting 
for Consensus group to create seats of longer duration, 
as well as the possibility of immediate re-election. That 
formula would make it possible for those States that so 
wish, and are in a position to do so, to contribute more 
to the work of the Council.
In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  Spain’s  willingness  to 
work  alongside  other  groups  and  Member  States  to 
reach a timely, optimal and consensus-based solution.
Mr.  Okamura  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  associate 
myself  fully  with  the  statement  delivered  earlier  by 
Ambassador Harald Braun of Germany on behalf of the 
Group of Four (G-4) countries.
Allow me to start by drawing attention to decision 
69/560, which Member States adopted by consensus last 
month. This was not just another technical, business-as-
usual decision. It was the decision to formally recognize 
the  text  and  its  annex  circulated  by  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session,  His 
Excellency Mr. Sam Kutesa, on 31 July of this year as 
the basis for intergovernmental negotiations. The text 
is a product of everyone, under the able chairmanship 
of Ambassador Courtenay Rattray. I wish to thank him 
for his strong stewardship, dedication and hard work.
I recall that in March Member States were briefed 
on the way forward to the text. It was made very clear 
that  each  and  every  Member  State  was  welcome  to 
populate the framework document with proposals and 
positions. Submissions to the framework document were 
kindly accepted even after the deadline. Each and every 
Member State that populated the framework document 
was consulted intensively before the text was circulated. 
In other words, the train for reform was always there for 
us. Everyone who wished to get on board was able to do 
so whenever they wished. We now have more than 120 
passengers.  Every  passenger  is  treated  equally  and  is 
well seated. Seats still remain for more passengers who 
have not yet gotten on the train. I cannot think of a more 
membership-driven  method 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  than  this.  Japan  therefore  congratulates 
and  warmly  welcomes  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Sylvie 
Lucas,  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg,  as 
the new driver of this beautiful train.
for 
Although  the  text  may  not  be  as  concise  and 
operational as my delegation initially called for, I accept 
it because it is a product of everyone. I believe that is 
why  Member  States  adopted  by  consensus  decision 
69/560 to roll over the text to this session of the General 
Assembly as the basis for text-based negotiations. Japan 
supports the new Chair in moving the process forward 
towards  actually  launching  text-based  negotiations. 
I am sure many other Member States will join in that 
endeavour.
The text is an important starting point for text-based 
negotiations, and yet it is only a starting point. I believe 
all  Member  States  agree  that  we  need  to  reform  the 
Security Council in order to enhance its effectiveness 
and that we need to expand its membership to reflect 
the  realities  of  the  international  community  in  the 
twenty-first  century.  The  only  thing  we  cannot  agree 
on at this moment is the configuration of the reformed 
Council  and  the  treatment  of  the  veto  —  two  issues. 
Reform  requires  negotiations.  Negotiations  require  a 
text.  I  believe  Member  States  can  negotiate  to  bridge 
those only remaining substantial gaps based on the text.
Geopolitical  realities  have  changed  over  the  past 
70  years.  There  are  more  Member  States  in  today’s 
world that have both the capacity and the willingness 
to  take  on  the  primary  responsibility  of  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security.  If  we 
increase 
only  non-permanent  members,  that  will  not  bring  an 
appropriate  balance  to  reflect  geopolitical  realities  in 
the Council. The expansion of permanent membership 
15-34211
19/24
A/70/PV.43 
30/10/2015
will  surely  strengthen  the  Council’s  functioning,  and 
that is in line with the spirit of Article 23 of the Charter 
of the United Nations.
outgoing Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations, 
for  his  dedication  and  tireless  efforts  to  move  the 
process forward.
I  understand  there  are  some  Member  States  that 
argue that we should greatly enhance the representation 
of developing countries but support only the expansion 
of  non-permanent  seats  or  the  creation  of  a  new 
category. I would like to ask those Member States for 
their  views.  What  is  their  answer  to  the  aspiration  of 
our African friends, without having them as permanent 
members,  considering  what  our  African  friends  call 
the “historical injustice done to Africa”? Do they think 
that the legitimate aspiration expressed by our African 
friends can be met by their argument?
We  need 
to  address 
the  most  controversial 
question  —  the  veto.  Initiatives  put  forward,  most 
notably  by  France  and  the  Accountability,  Coherence 
and  Transparency  group,  on  restraining  its  use  in 
situations  of  mass  atrocities  are  receiving  growing 
support. Japan supports both those initiatives.
It  is  important  to  capitalize  on  the  momentum 
generated by the seventieth anniversary of the United 
Nations.  The  G-4  leaders,  who  gathered  here  in  New 
York on 26 September, agreed on and pledged to reach 
out to Member States to achieve early and meaningful 
reform of the Security Council. The G-4 is determined 
to  redouble  its  efforts  towards  securing  concrete 
outcomes during this session of the General Assembly.
My  delegation  very  much  expects  the  President’s 
leadership  on  this  important  agenda  item  and  will 
support  him  as  we  make  progress  during  this  very 
critical year of the seventieth anniversary of the United 
Nations.
Mr.  Lauber  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  We 
would  like  to  thank  the  President  for  convening  this 
meeting  on  the  question  of  equitable  representation 
on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council. As we celebrate the United Nations seventieth 
anniversary, this question remains highly relevant. We 
welcome the decision by which the General Assembly 
reaffirmed its central role on this question and decided 
to continue the intergovernmental negotiations on the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  in  informal  plenary 
meetings  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session.
Since 
the  beginning, 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  process  has  demonstrated  its  complexity. 
We  thank  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray,  as  the 
the 
the 
Switzerland  welcomes 
appointment  of 
Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas  of  Luxembourg  as  the 
new  facilitator  and  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations. We congratulate her on her appointment 
and  are  confident 
the 
constructive  work  of  her  predecessor.  We  encourage 
Ambassador Lucas to build on the current momentum, 
and we wish her full success in the challenge ahead.
that  she  will  carry  on 
to  assure 
Lastly,  I  wish 
that 
Switzerland,  as  a  member  of  the  Accountability, 
Coherence and Transparency group, will do everything 
it can to improve the working methods of the Security 
Council.
the  President 
Ms. Bird (Australia): Seventy years ago, at the 1945 
San  Francisco  Conference,  and  in  1946  as  one  of  the 
first elected members of the Security Council, Australia 
argued  strongly  against  the  veto.  We  did  so  because 
we  saw  it  as  hampering  the  Council’s  effectiveness 
and  legitimacy.  Today  those  same  reasons  underscore 
our  support  for  Security  Council  reform,  reform  that 
will  ensure  that  the  Council  is  able  to  respond  to 
modern realities and uphold its Charter responsibilities 
transparently, credibly and effectively.
Put  simply, 
the  Council’s  effectiveness  and 
legitimacy require, first, an expansion of its membership 
to reflect today’s geopolitical realities, secondly, limits 
on the use of the veto, and thirdly, greater transparency 
in the Council’s workings.
Australia  strongly  supports  the  Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  group’s  code  of  conduct 
on  Security  Council  action  in  situations  of  mass 
atrocities,  and  the  complementary  French/Mexican 
political  declaration  on  veto  restraint.  The  strong, 
almost overwhelming, support from the United Nations 
membership  for  those  proposals  underscores  how 
fundamental this reform is for the proper functioning 
of the United Nations in advancing international peace 
and security. The onus now is on the Security Council to 
respond. We also urge all Council members to continue 
making  the  Council  more  accessible,  transparent  and 
inclusive. Openness and transparency can, and should, 
be  integrated  into  the  day-to-day  workings  of  the 
Council.
Expansion of the Council’s membership is essential 
for  the  Council’s  continued  legitimacy  and  relevance. 
20/24 
15-34211
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.43
The Council continues to be badly out of step with the 
evolution of the world’s geopolitics. For those reasons, 
Australia  supports  expansion  in  both  the  permanent 
and  non-permanent  categories,  including  for  a  more 
equitable geographical balance.
The Council benefits from a diverse and changing 
elected membership. It will be crucial to ensure that any 
changes to membership or duration of Council terms do 
not prevent a diverse range of countries from seeking 
election and serving as elected members.
Together  we,  the  United  Nations  membership, 
made  substantial  progress  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations during the sixty-ninth session of the General 
Assembly. We warmly commend Ambassador Rattray 
for  leading  a  transparent,  inclusive,  results-oriented 
process  in  which  more  than  120  Member  States 
contributed  to  the  framework  text.  That  was  an 
important achievement.
Seventy  years  after 
the  United  Nations  was 
established,  the  time  has  now  come  to  move  to  text-
based negotiations on Council reform, on the basis of 
resolution 69/560 and the framework text. We have an 
unmistakable  responsibility  to  reshape  and  adapt  the 
Security  Council  so  it  is  able  to  address  the  complex 
peace  and  security  challenges  over  the  next  70  years. 
We  therefore  warmly  welcome  Ambassador  Lucas’s 
appointment to lead the intergovernmental negotiations 
process, and we pledge Australia’s full cooperation to 
achieve a strong result under her leadership.
Ms. Flores Herrera (Panama) (spoke in Spanish): At 
the outset, I would like to begin by welcoming decision 
69/560, adopted at the sixty-ninth session of the General 
Assembly  under  the  presidency  of  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa, 
to  continue  with  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
reforming the Security Council,  a goal shared by more 
than  90  per  cent  of  Member  States.  We  acknowledge 
and  commend  the  leadership  and  commendable  work 
carried out as Chair by Ambassador Courtenay Rattray, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica,  to  bring  us  to 
today’s  point  where  we  have  a  text  on  which  we  can 
negotiate. The transparency, dedication and discipline 
with  which  Ambassador  Rattray  led  the  discussions 
should be emulated in any United Nations process.
We feel optimistic about the commitment taken on 
and expressed by President Lykketoft at the seventieth 
session of the General Assembly, as well as his decision 
that  the  negotiations  going  forward  should  be  led 
by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg, 
Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas,  representative  of  another 
small country that is committed to this reform process 
and  that  has  shown  good  examples  of  making  sure 
that equity, justice and morality prevail in the various 
organizational  and  decision-making  processes.  In 
addition, we welcome the fact that a woman is presiding 
over  the  work  involved  in  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  fulfilling  the  objective  of  promoting  gender 
equality and empowering women, and is also bringing 
her vast experience, sensitivity and knowledge to this 
position.
The Security Council was born out of a cataclysmic 
time for humankind — out of the ashes and suffering of 
a world war. However, in our changing world in 70 years 
we have seen only one substantive revision. Although 
the Security Council has been successful in preventing 
another global conflict, we are today seeing explosions 
of humanitarian crises that also transcend borders and 
present huge challenges to the peace and security of the 
world.  The  tragedies  of  refugees,  of  terrorism  —  just 
those situations affect so many people. Those  women, 
men  and  children  are  those  whom  we  do  not  want  to 
be left behind in the Sustainable Development Agenda. 
Hence we must promote the reform of the sole United 
Nations organ whose decisions are binding and strictly 
implemented.
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
related  matters  are  an  essential  component  if  we  are 
to  revitalize  the  United  Nations  as  a  body  and  make 
it  fit  for  purpose  in  fulfilling  the  noble  Agenda  to 
which  we  recently  subscribed  (resolution  70/1).  This 
issue  is  critical  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security  and  is  also  intrinsically  bound  up 
with  sustainable  development.  As  Pope  Francis  said, 
in  a  world  of  of  unfettered  ambition  and  collective 
selfishness, it has never been more necessary to appeal 
to the moral conscience of the human being. We need 
a paradigm shift that emphasizes ethical values and to 
make sure that our actions are just and proper. 
The  Security  Council  needs  to  be  revitalized  to 
make  it  not  only  more  representative  but  also  more 
effective, transparent and open to accountability to the 
international community. The recent launch of the code 
of conduct to restrict the use of the veto in the Security 
Council  is  an  initial  step  towards  that  long-awaited 
reform and begin to rid ourselves of the anachronistic 
distinctions  between  permanent  and  non-permanent 
members.
15-34211
21/24
A/70/PV.43 
30/10/2015
Let  us  resolve  to  crown  this  seventieth  year  of 
the  United  Nations  with  a  decision  on  the  reform  of 
the  Security  Council.  Let  us  not  remain  stuck  in  the 
debate we began more than 20 years ago concerning the 
urgent need to reform it. We are an Organization that 
has quadrupled in membership over those 70 years — a 
sign that the world has evolved and will continue to do 
so. That reality, which reflects a new historic moment in 
the life of the United Nations, must also be reflected in 
an internal adaptation of its bodies so that its structure, 
functioning  and  dynamics  respond  to  193  Member 
States, which should let go of any of rights or priviliges 
conferred upon them in other circumstances.
Panama  will  continue  to  participate  actively  in 
the  intergovernmental  process  to  reform  the  Security 
Council, devoted to our calling to offer compromises, 
trying  to  bring  seemly  polarized  positions  closer 
together. We are convinced that the elements that unite 
us outnumber our differences. That is our commitment 
to “We the peoples of the United Nations”, to whom we 
are responsible.
Mr. Winid (Poland): I wish to thank the President 
for  convening  this  annual  General  Assembly  debate 
and  for  his  commitment  to  Security  Council  reform. 
I  would  like  to  assure  him  of  Poland’s  support  in  his 
efforts towards that goal.
We also welcome and congratulate the Permanent 
Representative  of  Luxembourg,  Ambassador  Sylvie 
Lucas,  on  her  appointment  as  the  new  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations. I take this opportunity 
to thank Ambassador Courtenay Rattray of Jamaica for 
his  dedication,  leadership  and  excellent  work  during 
the last round of the intergovernmental negotiations.
One of our birthday wishes to the United Nations as 
it turned 70 was to have a more representative, effective, 
transparent and responsible Security Council. We would 
like to see that organ adapted to the realities of today’s 
world and fully complying with its responsibilities as 
envisaged in the Charter of the United Nations.
Poland now looks forward to the immediate resumption 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  as  was  agreed 
upon  in  September  by  us,  the  General  Assembly.  My 
delegation  is  convinced  that  by  building  on  the  work 
undertaken during the Assembly’s last session we will 
be able to take another significant step forward towards 
Council  reform.  In  order  to  reach  the  much-needed 
consensus,  we  must  continue  an  open  dialogue  that 
creates room for everyone to express their opinions and 
arguments.
The United Nations is made up of regional groups 
of different sizes. All of them advocate their equitable 
representation  on  the  reformed  Council.  We  firmly 
believe  that  the  ambitions  of  the  Group  of  African 
States, as well as the Asian, Pacific and Latin American 
countries, are equally justified. But being a member of 
the Group of Eastern European States — the smallest 
among  the  regional  groups  but  at  the  same  time  one 
that has also witnessed a noticeable increase over the 
last decades — we would like to repeat our call for an 
additional non-permanent seat for the Eastern European 
Group.
We  also  support  efforts  to  make  the  Council’s 
actions  more  transparent  and  effective.  Poland  gladly 
contributed to the Security Council’s open debate (see 
S/PV.7539) on its working methods held last week under 
the very able Spanish presidency.
Finally,  with  respect  to  the  question  of  the  veto 
power,  we  wish  to  welcome  the  growing  number  of 
supporters of the French/Mexican proposal on restraint 
in its use. Poland has also endorsed the Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  group’s  code  of  conduct 
that aims at timely and decisive Security Council action 
against  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  and  war 
crimes.
Mr.  Andanje  (Kenya):  My  delegation  attaches 
great  importance  to  the  subject  before  us.  Let  me 
begin by commending Ambassador Courtenay Rattray 
of  Jamaica,  outgoing  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  His 
dedication  and  commitment  to  moving  forward  the 
negotiations  at  the  sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  deserves  our  praise.  I  also  congratulate 
Her  Excellency  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Luxembourg,  on  her  appointment 
to  chair  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  It  is  an 
onerous  task.  I  do  not  envy  her.  Nevertheless,  I  am 
confident she will be able to build on her predecessor’s 
work  as  the  basis  of  our  efforts  to  advance  reform  of 
the  Security  Council.  I  assure  her  of  my  delegation’s 
support and cooperation.
My delegation fully aligns itself with the statement 
delivered earlier by the representative of Sierra Leone, 
coordinator  of  the  Group  of  African  States.  Kenya 
reaffirms  its  full  support  and  commitment  to  the 
22/24 
15-34211
30/10/2015 
A/70/PV.43
common African position and Africa’s legitimate claim 
embodied in the Ezulwini Consensus.
My  delegation  is  pleased  that  the  African  Group 
statement  has  comprehensively 
the 
substantive issues on Security Council reform that are 
of the greatest concern to Africa and the wider United 
Nations membership. In the interests of brevity and to 
avoid repetition, my delegation would like to take this 
opportunity to highlight the following points.
touched  on 
I believe I speak for many here when I say that our 
countries occasionally come under undue pressure on 
issues of transparency and accountability at the national 
level.  Unfortunately,  in  the  context  of  governance  of 
international institutions, that is not the case.
As the principle organ responsible for maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security,  the  Security 
Council exemplifies a structure that is not compatible 
with the current realities of the world. It does not reflect 
the  current  world  power  distribution  and  geopolitical 
situation. 
The Council’s small size and exclusive nature, its 
relations  with  the  General  Assembly  and  its  working 
methods and undemocratic nature are out of step with 
today’s  demands.  It  is  antiquated  and  ill-adapted  to 
fulfil its tasks. Some regions of the world do not have 
representation  on  the  Council.  Indeed,  a  considerable 
portion  of  the  United  Nations  global  constituency  is 
unrepresented  and  unheard  in  the  administration  of 
global  affairs.  They  do  not  have  a  say  in  the  policies 
that  directly  affect  them.  Africa,  which  provides  a 
very large share of the United Nations security agenda 
and  is  also  the  focus  of  considerable  work  of  the 
Organization, has no voice in the Council. That is not 
only discriminatory, but also unfair and unjust.
My delegation is convinced that it is imperative that 
the Council be able to meet contemporary standards and 
the demands of the twenty-first century. It must meet 
expectations  of  legitimacy  based  on  accountability 
and democracy in its decision-making procedures and 
representation.  It  is  therefore  incumbent  upon  us,  the 
United Nations membership, collectively to ensure that 
the Security Council reform process moves forward in 
accordance with the five guiding principles outlined in 
decision 62/557.
Finally,  my  delegation  looks  forward  to  engaging 
in open and transparent negotiations in which the entire 
membership have an equal voice. We believe the work 
carried  out  thus  far  provides  a  valuable  basis  for  our 
collective efforts to work towards reform of the Security 
Council. We must build on this as part of our efforts to 
make the United Nations a more efficient and effective 
instrument in the service of all the peoples of the world.
Mr.  Sarki  (Nigeria):  Let  me  first  thank  the 
President and the secretariat for accommodating us to 
speak at this time at the end of the morning’s meeting.
First, Nigeria would like to commend the President 
for  the  determination  that  he  has  shown  to  move  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  process  on  Security 
Council  reform  forward  during  the  seventieth  session 
of  the  General  Assembly.  In  particular,  we  commend 
him  for  convening  this  important  meeting,  which  is 
in fulfilment of his promise contained in the letter of 
23 October circulated to all missions.
Nigeria  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made 
earlier  by  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Vandi  Minah, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Sierra  Leone,  who 
spoke  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States  on 
the  Common  African  Position,  and  also  Ambassador 
Menissa Rambally, Permanent Representative of Saint 
Lucia, who spoke on behalf of the L.69 group.
We  have  been  following  with  keen  interest  the 
President’s  views  on  the  subject  of  Security  Council 
reform  ever  since  he  was  elected  to  office  as  the 
President  of  the  seventieth  session  in  June  2015.  We 
recall that in his acceptance speech after the election he 
observed appropriately that:
“Most  interest  seems  to  be  centred  on  the  reform 
of 
the  Security  Council  and  creating  more 
transparency and openness when selecting the next 
Secretary-General” (A/69/PV.94, p. 3)
Thereafter,  he  assured  the  Assembly  that  he  would 
continue this work when the seventieth session began and 
that he would “conduct the presidency as transparently, 
inclusively and openly as possible.” (ibid.)
It is noteworthy that the issue of the reform of the 
Security  Council  continues  to  receive  attention  at  the 
highest  levels.  It  is  important  for  us  to  recall  that  at 
the just-concluded India-Africa Summit in New Delhi, 
leaders underlined the need for an early reform of the 
Council to adjust to the changing realities of the world.
Nigeria  commends  Member  States  for  adopting 
decision  69/560,  of  14  September  2015,  by  which  the 
General  Assembly  reaffirmed  its  central  role  on  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
15-34211
23/24
A/70/PV.43 
30/10/2015
matters  related  to  its  work.  By  this,  Member  States 
also  decided  to  continue  with  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  in  informal 
plenary of the General Assembly during the seventieth 
session.
this  decision, 
Consistent  with 
it  will  be 
recalled  that  the  President,  in  his  opening  address 
at  the  commencement  of  the  seventieth  session  on 
15 September, reassured Member States by stating that, 
responding to
“the  continued  interest  among  many  Member 
States  in  both  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
and  in  creating  more  transparency  and  openness 
when  selecting  the  next  Secretary-General,  I  will 
continue the work mandated by Member States on 
both of those issues.” (A/70/PV.1, p. 2).
Similarly,  in  his  opening  speech  of  the  general 
debate on 28 September, he underscored his resolve to 
support
settlement; 
“new  ideas  on  how  to  strengthen  global  peace 
and  security,  from  the  role  of  women  to  conflict 
prevention,  mediation  and 
from 
United  Nations  peace  operations  to  the  overall 
peacebuilding  architecture  and  Security  Council 
reform.” (A/70/PV.13, p. 5)
These  are  very  important  commitments  that  the 
President has given to Member States. His commitment 
to this process resonated in the content of his letter of 
23  October,  wherein  he  informed  Member  States  of 
his appointment of Her Excellency Ambassador Sylvie 
Lucas,  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg,  as 
Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  during 
the seventieth session. In the letter he rightly observed 
that  the  discussion  on  this  subject  gained  greater 
momentum  during  the  sixty-ninth  session  under  the 
leadership  of  the  Honourable  Sam  Kutesa,  whom  we 
wish to commend for his steadfast commitment to the 
reform of the Security Council.
Against that backdrop, we must strive to build on 
the laudable achievement recorded during the previous 
session, when for the first time we had a text upon which 
negotiations would now be based. Consequently, we are 
very hopeful that today’s meeting and subsequent steps 
will firmly build on this momentum. The cadence must 
not drop. The tempo must be sustained.
We  commend  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray, 
Permanent Representative of Jamaica, who chaired the 
process  at  its  eleventh  round,  during  the  sixty-ninth 
session, for his exemplary leadership. In the same vein 
we  welcome  the  appointment  of  Ambassador  Lucas 
and  congratulate  her  on  it.  We  are  grateful  to  her  for 
accepting this enormous responsibility and assure her of 
our cooperation. We encourage her to inject new vigour 
into the process and determinedly move it forward in a 
significant way during the seventieth session.
Nigeria  has  always  expressed  its  support  for  the 
advancement  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process in an open, inclusive and transparent manner. As 
we prepare to move into the next round of negotiations 
during this session, we thank all delegations that have 
continued  to  express  their  support  for  the  Common 
African Position. We would like to seize this opportunity 
to  reaffirm  this  Common  African  Union  Position  on 
the entire subject of Security Council reform, to which 
we adhere very strongly. That is important in order to 
correct the historical injustice done to the continent and 
its continued marginalization over so many years.
For  that  reason,  we  wish  to  underscore  the 
overriding  need  to  ensure  that  the  interests  of  Africa 
continue  to  be  put  forward  and  safeguarded.  African 
States have offered a coherent, practical and persuasive 
blueprint  for  the  Council’s  reform.  We  have  come  up 
with a common position, which asserts the right of our 
continent that has for so long been marginalized, and 
we recognize the legitimate aspirations of other regions 
to be fully represented in the Council.
is 
inspired  by 
Security  Council  reform 
the 
principles  of  the  Charter  itself.  The  clear  objective 
of  this  process  is  based  on  the  sovereign  equality  of 
all  Member  States  and  on  the  need  to  adhere  to  the 
principles of democratization and inclusiveness in the 
United Nations. It is undoubtedly a worthwhile process. 
Therefore,  we  must  muster  the  desired  political  will 
that can lead to the achievement of a reformed Security 
Council sooner rather than indefinitely.
Finally, what is required of us at this juncture is to 
move  to  the  stage  of  actual  negotiations  with  the  aid 
of  a  text,  which  is  now  available  to  us.  There  should 
be marked progress in the forthcoming negotiations far 
beyond what we achieved during the sixty-ninth session. 
We look forward with great optimism to the next line 
of actions during the seventieth session. We assure the 
President of our full cooperationin that respect.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
24/24 
15-34211
