United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
31st plenary meeting
Tuesday, 13 October 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.31
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Menan (Togo), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda items 76, 77 and 128
Report of the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide and 
Other Serious Violations of International Humanitarian 
Law Committed in the Territory of Rwanda and 
Rwandan Citizens Responsible for Genocide and 
Other Such Violations Committed in the Territory 
of Neighbouring States between 1 January and 
31 December 1994
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
twentieth annual report of the International 
Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (A/70/218)
Report of the International Tribunal for the Prosecution 
of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of 
International Humanitarian Law Committed in the 
Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
twenty-second annual report of the International 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (A/70/226)
International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
third annual report of the International Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals (A/70/225)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  give 
the  floor  to  Judge  Vagn  Joensen,  President  of  the 
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda.
Judge  Joensen  (International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for  Rwanda):  As  I  stand  before  the  Assembly  today, 
marking  my  fourth  and  final  appearance  before  it  in 
my capacity as President of the International Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR),  I  should  like  first  to 
congratulate His Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft of 
Denmark on his election as President of the Assembly. It 
is with great pleasure that I wish him a successful term 
of duty. I am also happy to be able to have an active part 
in furthering the theme of his presidency “The United 
Nations at 70: a new commitment to action”.
As  the  United  Nations  celebrates  its  seventieth 
anniversary  and  as  the  ICTR  passes  the  torch  to 
the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal 
Tribunals, we, as representatives of the ad hoc tribunals, 
can once again reaffirm our commitment to action, to 
the prevention of atrocities such as those that took place 
in Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia and continue to 
reinforce our message to the international community 
that no longer will such crimes go unpunished.
It remains an immense honour for me to address the 
members of the Assembly and to present the twentieth 
and  final  annual  report  of  the  ICTR  (see  A/70/218). 
The  report  details  the  progress  made  in  the  past  year 
towards the completion of the Tribunal’s mandate and 
the transition to the Mechanism. 
I will now begin by providing a brief overview of the 
work undertaken throughout the reporting period, from 
1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015, during which the Tribunal, 
despite  a  very  high  workload,  has  made  significant 
progress towards the goals of the completion strategy, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-30992 (E)
*1530992*
A/70/PV.31 
13/10/2015
keeping  us  on  track  for  completion  of  the  remaining 
judicial work by the end of 2015.
One of the most important accomplishments of the 
ICTR  in  completing  its  mandate  is  that  the  Appeals 
Chamber  has  now  completed  its  work  in  all  but  one 
case.  The  sole  remaining  judgement  on  appeal  in  the 
Nyiramasuhuko  et  al.  (Butare)  case  is  expected  to  be 
delivered in December. The date of formal closure of 
the Tribunal is planned for 31 December, shortly after 
the  return  of  the  final  appeal  judgement.  Thereafter, 
the Tribunal will be comprised of only a small team to 
complete the required liquidation activities, which are 
projected to be completed in the first half of 2016.
As  we  begin  to  prepare  for  life  after  the  ICTR,  I 
want to thank the Tribunal’s Division of Administrative 
Support  Services,  which,  among  others,  continues 
to  play  an  important  role  in  the  significant  progress 
that  the  Tribunal  has  made  in  the  ongoing  transfer 
of  responsibilities  to  the  Mechanism,  while  at  the 
same  time  ensuring  the  efficient  management  of  the 
Tribunal’s downsizing process and providing assistance 
to departing staff members.
As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  the  Tribunal  has 
completed its work at the trial level with respect to all 
of the 93 accused, and since January 2013 its remaining 
judicial work has been in the Appeals Chamber. During 
the reporting period, the Tribunal issued three appeal 
judgements  concerning  four  persons  in  the  Karemera 
and Ngirumpatse, Nizeyimana and Nzabonimana cases, 
bringing the total number of persons whose judgements 
have been completed at the appellate level to 55. 
Litigation in connection with the Butare case, the 
Tribunal’s final appeal, generated an unexpectedly high 
volume of motions before the Appeals Chamber during 
the reporting period. The motions in the Butare case, 
comprised of six defence appeals and one prosecution 
appeal,  were  disposed  of  prior  to  the  oral  hearings, 
which were held from 14 to 22 April in Arusha. Since 
April  the  Appeals  Chamber  has  been  engaged  in 
intensive  deliberations  and  judgement  drafting,  the 
result of which is a plan for delivery of the judgement 
before 31 December.
Turning  to  the  cases  transferred  from  the  ICTR 
to  national  jurisdictions,  I  wish  to  inform  members 
that  there  are  now  four  cases  pending  in  national 
jurisdictions — two in Rwanda and two in France. The 
function  of  monitoring  the  referred  cases  now  rests 
with  the  Mechanism.  During  the  reporting  period, 
however,  the  Tribunal  provided  staff  to  assist  the 
Mechanism  with  monitoring  these  four  cases.  Staff 
from  the  Tribunal  based  in  Arusha  acted  as  interim 
monitors of the proceedings in Rwanda during part of 
the  reporting  period,  and  an  Appeals  Chamber  staff 
member in The Hague acted as interim monitor for the 
cases  transferred  to  France  throughout  the  reporting 
period.  Both  have  submitted  regular  reports  to  the 
Mechanism,  and  the  ICTR  has  followed  the  progress 
closely and will continue to provide support as required 
until its closure.
I  should  like  to  express  my  deep  gratitude  to 
the  staff  members  from  both  the  Tribunal  and  the 
Mechanism who agreed to take on these important roles 
in addition to their core duties, and to commend them 
for performing their service as monitors while ensuring 
that this function did not cause any detriment to their 
regular workload.
Considering  the  work  completed  by  the  Tribunal 
during the reporting period, I feel that it is incumbent 
upon  me  to  take  this  opportunity  to  commend  the 
members  of  the  Appeals  Chamber,  together  with  the 
entirety  of  the  staff  of  the  ICTR,  for  their  continued 
hard work. I should like once more to emphasize that 
the  significant  progress  made  towards  the  completion 
of  our  mandate  and  the  transition  to  the  Mechanism 
would not have been possible without their persevering 
efforts.
As we near the end of our mandate and continue to 
work to complete the final appeal without delay, the staff 
who remain at the ICTR are among the most dedicated 
and  professional  individuals  in  the  organization.  This 
is  evidenced  by  the  fact  that  many  have  sacrificed 
opportunities for more secure and lucrative employment 
prospects in order to see their work through until the 
end. I sincerely hope that Member States will continue 
to encourage the Secretariat and other United Nations 
entities to give favourable consideration to applications 
from  qualified  ICTR  staff  members,  especially  those 
who remain with the Tribunal until the completion of 
their contracts.
Despite  persistent  staffing  challenges,  the  ICTR 
has  made  substantial  progress  in  the  preparation  and 
transfer  of  the  paper,  electronic,  and  audio-visual 
records  for  preservation  and  management  by  the 
Mechanism. This work was done in collaboration with 
the  Mechanism  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  records 
will be easily manageable after their transfer and also 
accessible to posterity. As of 1 October, the Mechanism 
2/20 
15-30992
13/10/2015 
A/70/PV.31
has received approximately 78 per cent of the physical 
ICTR records, which will be housed in the Mechanism’s 
archives,  and  the  remaining  records  will  be  handed 
over  to  the  Mechanism  prior  to  the  completion  of  the 
Tribunal’s liquidation activities in 2016.
In  addition  to  the  inventory  and  appraisal  of 
the  ICTR  records,  the  Tribunal  also  worked  on  the 
redaction of audio-visual records of trial proceedings. 
These  records,  which  are  vital  to  the  ICTR’s  goal  of 
ensuring  that  the  events  in  Rwanda  will  never  be 
forgotten, may also serve as road maps for the creation 
of  future  international  tribunals  and,  possibly  almost 
as important, can be used to further empower domestic 
courts  and  educate  the  world  on  the  importance  of 
challenging impunity.
While  the  ICTR  may  shortly  close,  the  records 
generated over the past two decades not only provide 
an account of the genocide, but also tell the story of the 
Tribunal  and  the  countless  staff  members  and  people 
from every corner of the world who, along with those 
involved with the trials themselves, have affected and 
been affected by the work of the ICTR. As the process of 
transferring these records moves forward, I especially 
thank all the staff working on these important projects 
and commend them on the work they have completed 
with distinction.
Discussing  the  transfer  from  the  ICTR  to  the 
Mechanism presents an opportune time for me to say a 
few words about my dear friend and colleague, President 
Meron. Over the course of the years that we have worked 
together, I have been impressed by President Meron’s 
energy,  perseverance  and  dedication,  especially  when 
one  considers  that  he  is  balancing  the  responsibilities 
of President of the Mechanism and of the International 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY). Together, 
President  Meron  and  I  have  been  able  to  foster  an 
environment  whereby  our  two  offices  work  in  close 
collaboration  and  he  has  been  instrumental  in  the 
Tribunal’s ability to complete its mandate and transfer 
its remaining residual functions to the Mechanism.
As  I  reflect  upon  our  friendship  and  professional 
relationship, I note with sadness that this will be the last 
time that the two of us stand here together and provide 
our respective briefings to the Assembly. I further note 
that this will also mark the final briefing by President 
Meron as President of the ICTY as his second term of 
office will shortly expire. I wish to thank him on behalf 
of  the  entire  Tribunal  for  his  service  as  President  of 
the ICTY, which has included serving as the Presiding 
Judge  of  the  ICTR  and  the  ICTY  Appeals  Chamber, 
working hard to retain the judicial integrity and highest 
procedural  safeguards,  which  are  paramount  to  the 
legitimacy and moral force of the Tribunals.
I  will  now  provide  an  update  on  the  work  of  the 
Office of the Prosecutor. During the reporting period the 
Office focused on the remaining appeals and providing 
assistance with other ongoing litigation, supporting the 
core work undertaken by the Office of the Prosecutor of 
the Mechanism and compiling various lessons-learned 
and  best  practices  manuals.  As  part  of  its  principal 
litigation  function, 
the  Prosecutor 
continued  to  assist  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  of 
the  Mechanism  with  its  judicial  assignments  and  was 
further  involved  in  the  reviewing  and  updating  of  its 
disclosure obligations in all the completed cases.
the  Office  of 
During  the  reporting  period,  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor  also  handed  over  the  responsibility  for 
the  tracking  of  the  three  remaining  fugitives  to  the 
Mechanism Office of the Prosecutor and continued to 
transfer functions and responsibility for the management 
and preservation of its official records and archives to 
its Mechanism Office.
The  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  has  also  been 
exemplary in its work on a number of projects related 
to the preservation of lessons learned and best practices 
that will be pivotal in shaping the legacy of the ICTR. 
For example, by creating a best practices manual for the 
prosecution of sexual and gender-based violence and by 
providing a manual that identifies the lessons learned 
from  the  ICTR  Prosecutor’s  referral  of  international 
criminal  cases  to  national  jurisdictions,  the  Office  of 
the  Prosecutor  has  strengthened  and  will  continue  to 
strengthen  the  capacity  of  national  criminal  justice 
systems  to  effectively  prosecute  international  crimes. 
Upon closure, the Office of the Prosecutor will submit a 
formal closing report to the Security Council, detailing 
many of the key challenges and accomplishments it has 
faced over the past 21 years of operation.
I  now  return  to  an  important  concern  that  the 
ICTR  has  raised  in  both  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  Security  Council  for  years,  that  of  relocating 
acquitted persons and those released after serving their 
sentences. Since 2011, the Security Council has called 
upon  Member  States  to  assist  the  Tribunal  with  the 
relocation  of  acquitted  and  released  persons  who  are 
currently residing in Arusha. However, apart from the 
agreement of Belgium to accept one of the Tribunal’s 
acquitted  persons  and  reunite  him  with  his  family  in 
15-30992
3/20
A/70/PV.31 
13/10/2015
September 2014, there have been few developments in 
this  area  despite  tremendous  efforts  by  the  Registrar 
and myself, who worked tirelessly until the end of 2014 
to find solutions to this very troubling problem.
While 
took  over 
the  Mechanism 
the  formal 
responsibility for relocation as of 1 January, the ICTR 
remains  committed  to  assisting  the  Mechanism  in  its 
relocation efforts until its closure. I once again reiterate 
that  the  assistance  of  all  Member  States  is  essential 
to the Mechanism’s ability to relocate these acquitted 
and released persons, some of whom have remained in 
Arusha for more than a decade.
More  than  twenty  years  ago,  in  November  1994, 
the  Security  Council  conferred  on  the  ICTR  the  task 
of  helping  to  bring  peace  and  reconciliation  to  the 
Great  Lakes  region  through  the  prosecution  of  those 
responsible for the atrocities in Rwanda in 1994. As I 
stand here today, two decades later and on the threshold 
of closure, I firmly believe that the Tribunal, along with 
many  others,  assisted  in  rebuilding  the  trust  between 
the  Rwandan  people  and  the  United  Nations,  and 
that  Rwanda,  thanks  to  justice,  along  with  numerous 
outreach and capacity building programmes, was able 
to put itself back together.
As  we  reflect  on  the  work  that  the  Tribunal  has 
accomplished, I recall that November 2014 marked the 
twentieth anniversary of the creation of the ICTR by the 
Security Council. To commemorate that occasion, the 
Tribunal organized events to pay tribute to the victims 
and  survivors  of  the  genocide  and  to  recognize  those 
brave souls who walked into a courtroom, most for the 
first  time,  and  recalled  events  that,  as  former  ICTR 
President Judge Navi Pillay so rightly put, “shocked the 
collective conscience of mankind”.
The  events  held  by  the  Tribunal  included  a 
symposium on the legacy of the ICTR and the Seventh 
Colloquium  of  International  Prosecutors,  and  brought 
together hundreds of scholars and legal practitioners as 
well as politicians, government officials, international 
and  national  prosecutors  and 
judges,  and  media 
representatives  from  across  the  globe.  The  Tribunal 
also  held  satellite  events  in  December  2014  in  The 
Hague, where its Appeals Chamber is seated, and here 
in  New  York,  the  place  of  its  establishment  by  the 
Security Council.
To ensure that the work that the ICTR has done in 
the wake of the genocide is not forgotten and to ensure 
that its continued battle against impunity lives on long 
after its closure, the ICTR launched a new short film 
on the occasion of its twentieth anniversary, which is 
available on the Tribunal’s home page. The video has 
attracted more than 125,000 viewers, renewing public 
interest in the events that took place in Rwanda in 1994 
and reinforcing the message that the Tribunal has given 
by bringing those accused of the most heinous crimes 
to justice and, as stated in the film, coming even closer 
to  a  time  when  international  law  offers  justice  to  all 
people, everywhere.
It has been said, and I must echo this, that prosecution 
and judicial decisions alone cannot maintain peace or 
achieve  reconciliation  in  a  region  devastated  by  such 
violence. In order to ensure that affected communities 
understand not only the work of the Tribunal, but also 
the ramifications of the genocide and the lessons learned 
in  the  fight  against  impunity,  the  ICTR  continues  to 
implement outreach and capacity-building programmes 
and will do so until its closure.
library  services, 
One  of  the  most  important  initiatives  was  the 
creation of the Umusanzu Information Centre in Kigali 
and  the  ten  additional  provincial  information  centres 
located  across  Rwanda.  These  information  centres, 
which  provided 
legal  reference 
materials,  trainings  and  notifications  about  ICTR-
related  activities,  played  a  key  role  in  information 
dissemination  and 
improved  communication  and 
access  to  the  jurisprudence  of  the  ICTR  and  other 
legal  materials.  I  am  happy  to  announce  that  these 
information centres along with the materials contained 
within  them  have  been  handed  over  to  the  Rwandan 
Government, which has promised to continue to make 
them available to the Rwandan people.
The ICTR has also engaged in various awareness-
raising  campaigns  and  conducted  numerous  trainings 
of legal professionals both in Rwanda and throughout 
Africa.  The  sharing  of  developed  practices  and 
lessons  learned  remains  a  priority  for  the  ICTR.  In 
addition  to  the  best  practices  and  lessons-learned 
manuals previously referenced, I want to note that the 
Office of the Prosecutor has also published a lessons-
learned manual for the tracking and arrest of fugitives 
from  international  justice  and,  in  collaboration  with 
other  prosecution  offices,  created  a  guide  entitled 
“Prosecuting  Mass  Atrocities:  A  Compendium  of 
Lessons  Learned  and  Suggested  Practices  from  the 
Offices of the Prosecutors”.
The  sharing  of  developed  practices  between  the 
international  criminal  tribunals  and  the  International 
4/20 
15-30992
13/10/2015 
A/70/PV.31
Criminal  Court  has  also  been  an  important  initiative 
launched by the Tribunal in 2013, and it saw significant 
progress  this  past  year.  The  goal  of  these  developed 
practices  workshops,  two  of  which  were  held  in  The 
Hague during the reporting period, is to bring together 
legal officers from the international and hybrid criminal 
tribunals to discuss and share developed practices and 
lessons learned. By conducting these workshops and by 
providing best-practices and lessons-learned manuals, 
the  Tribunal  has  provided  tools  for  the  continued 
development of international law as well as tools that 
can  be  used  by  national  jurisdictions  to  guide  and 
strengthen their existing judicial systems.
Before  I  conclude,  I  should  like  to  mention  that 
an  event  marking  the  Tribunal’s  closure  is  planned 
for  1  December,  and  it  is  my  hope  that  many  of  the 
representatives of United Nations Member States will 
join us in Arusha as we make ready to pass the torch to 
the Mechanism while recognizing the Tribunal’s two-
decade-long pursuit of international criminal justice. In 
these  final  months,  the  focus  remains  on  completing 
the  transition  of  functions  to  the  Mechanism  and  on 
the  completion  of  the  sole  remaining  appeal  in  an 
efficient  and  timely  manner  without  compromising 
fair trial rights. By January 2016 the Tribunal will be 
in  its  liquidation  phase  and  the  Mechanism  will  have 
fully  assumed  jurisdiction  and  responsibility  for  all 
residual  functions  and  the  archives  of  the  ICTR.  As 
the  end  approaches,  the  Tribunal  again  calls  upon 
the  international  community  to  provide  it  with  the 
necessary support to allow the ICTR to close its doors 
with a completed mandate.
It remains my honour to address this Assembly one 
last time. With our mandate nearly complete, I wish, on 
behalf of the entire Tribunal, to express our gratitude 
to  the  Governments  of  Member  States  for  supporting 
the  work  of  the  ICTR  and  helping  in  our  collective 
fight  to  challenge  impunity.  However,  there  is  still 
work to be done. Embracing Mr. Lykketoft’s theme of 
a new commitment to action, and with the support of 
Member States, I believe that the ICTR’s commitment 
to the development of international law and justice will 
continue to evolve in a meaningful way and lead to the 
eventual realization of our goal to end impunity.
Judge Meron (International Tribunal for the Former 
Yugoslavia and International Residual Mechanism for 
Criminal Tribunals): It is my privilege to appear before 
the General Assembly, and to do so under the presidency 
of  Denmark,  in  my  dual  capacity  as  President  of  the 
International  Residual  Mechanism  for  International 
Criminal  Tribunals  and  of  the  International  Tribunal 
for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY).
Before I turn to specifics about the Mechanism and 
the  Tribunal,  I  take  great  pleasure  in  congratulating 
Denmark  on  its  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly, and I wish it every success during 
its  term  of  office.  I  am  also  extremely  grateful  for 
the  efforts  of  the  Security  Council  Informal  Working 
Group on International Tribunals throughout this past 
year.
Additionally,  it  is  an  honour  to  acknowledge  the 
enormous  assistance  that  both  the  institutions  I  lead 
receive from the Office of Legal Affairs and the Legal 
Counsel, Mr. Miguel de Serpa Soares, as well as from 
the  Assistant  Secretary-General  for  Legal  Affairs, 
Mr.  Stephen  Mathias.  Their  steadfast  support  for 
international justice efforts and institutions are crucial 
to the success of our work. 
Last,  but  certainly  not  least,  I  would  like  to 
acknowledge that today marks the final annual report 
by  the  President  of  the  Rwanda  Tribunal.  President 
Joensen has led that institution over all these years with 
great competence and integrity. It has been an honour 
and  a  privilege  for  me  to  serve  along  with  him.  I  am 
also very grateful to him for his extremely kind remarks 
today.  I  also  salute  all  past  and  present  principals, 
judges,  staff  members,  and  other  stakeholders  of  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR) 
for  their  remarkable  achievements.  It  is  an  honour  to 
continue their work through the Mechanism.
In my remarks today I will focus on the highlights 
of  the  past  year  at  the  Mechanism  and  the  ICTY, 
identifying both successes and continuing challenges. 
A more detailed review of these matters is provided in 
the written reports submitted on behalf of each of the 
two institutions I represent. I will first turn to the work 
of the Mechanism.
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  French):  I 
now  call  on  Judge  Theodor  Meron,  President  of  the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  and 
of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals.
The  past  year  has  underscored  once  again  that 
the Mechanism stands at the forefront of international 
justice,  demonstrating  day  in  and  day  out  that  it  is 
possible, with appropriate organization, infrastructure 
and  leadership,  to  build  on  the  lessons  of  the  first 
15-30992
5/20
A/70/PV.31 
13/10/2015
modern international courts and to operate efficiently 
and cost-effectively.
For  example,  in  December  last  year  I  presided 
over  the  first  appeal  judgement  of  the  Mechanism,  in 
the  case  of  Augustin  Ngirabatware  v.  the  Prosecutor. 
The  judgement  was  delivered  without  any  delays, 
despite  the  complex  nature  of  the  case,  an  ambitious 
schedule, and the fact that all the judges were working 
on  it  for  no  additional  remuneration  while  carrying 
out  their  judicial  responsibilities  at  the  ICTR  and  the 
ICTY. Based on our experience with this case, together 
with the other complex judicial work the Mechanism is 
already handling, I am confident that we can replicate 
this success in future trials and appeals, significantly 
reducing costs by paying judges only for the time they 
spend on a case and reducing the time trials and appeals 
take by increasing the efficiency of judicial processes.
I am also pleased to report that the Mechanism will, 
by the end of the year, have assumed responsibility for 
all continuing ICTR functions. Over the next months, 
final administrative responsibilities, including security 
and  building  management,  will  be  turned  over  on 
schedule  to  Mechanism  control.  We  also  continue  to 
make  great  progress  in  transferring,  and  preparing 
for the transfer of, relevant ICTY functions, a process 
that will be completed with that Tribunal’s closure in 
2017. This transfer of responsibilities is a tremendously 
complex process, and one we could not have achieved 
without the close cooperation of Judge Vagn Joensen, 
President  of  the  ICTR,  as  well  as  the  prosecutors, 
registrars, judges and staff of the ICTR and ICTY. The 
Mechanism is grateful for their crucial assistance and 
cooperation.
We are also grateful to States that have concluded or 
are considering entering into enforcement-of-sentence 
agreements with the Mechanism. The Mechanism relies 
on the support of individual Member States to ensure 
that sentences passed down by the ICTR, the ICTY and 
the Mechanism itself are carried out, and the assistance 
of Member States in this regard is invaluable. 
As 
the 
transfer  of 
the  remaining  functions 
continues seamlessly and on schedule, the Mechanism 
is also focused on three additional challenges over the 
next year.
The 
the 
construction  of  a  new  home  for  the  Mechanism  in 
Arusha. Progress continues to be made in constructing 
the premises, and this new facility will ensure that the 
these  challenges 
first  of 
involves 
Mechanism can operate in Arusha with the necessary 
security  protection,  a  functioning  courtroom,  and 
appropriate  areas  for  archive  preservation.  In  July 
of this year we held a modest ceremony to unveil the 
cornerstone  for  the  new  building  and  were  honoured 
by  the  attendance  of  the  President  of  Tanzania,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete.  President 
Kikwete’s  presence  underscored 
large-scale 
support  that  Tanzania  has  generously  provided  to  the 
Mechanism over the years.
the 
The  second  major  challenge  we  face  is  the 
apprehension of the last remaining individuals indicted 
by the ICTR who are currently fugitives from justice. 
The  ICTY  set  an  important  precedent  by  accounting 
for  all  of  the  individuals  it  indicted,  a  remarkable 
achievement. It is crucial that we ensure that the same 
holds true when it comes to ICTR-indicted individuals 
as well. I have full trust in the considerable work that 
the  Prosecutor  of  the  Mechanism  is  undertaking  to 
apprehend these last fugitives from justice, and I call 
upon all Member States to cooperate in every way they 
can with the Prosecutor’s Office.
The third challenge facing the Mechanism involves 
the relocation of certain individuals who were indicted 
by the ICTR and then subsequently acquitted or released 
but who are unable to return, or are afraid of returning, 
to 
their  country  of  citizenship.  The  Mechanism 
assumed  the  responsibility  for  the  relocation  of  these 
individuals  at  the  beginning  of  this  year,  and  it  has 
adopted a strategic plan to both guide efforts to relocate 
them and reduce associated costs. The resettlement of 
these individuals is a crucial challenge for international 
justice, and I would urge all representatives here today 
to  liaise  with  the  Mechanism  on  potential  relocation 
opportunities.
Naturally,  even  while  addressing  the  specific 
challenges  I  have  outlined,  and  doing  so  in  the  most 
efficient  and  cost-effective  manner,  the  Mechanism 
continues to focus on adopting best practices across a 
range of areas. To that end, judges of the Mechanism 
recently adopted a judicial code spelling out the ethical 
responsibilities  of  judges  and  the  high  standards  to 
which we hold ourselves. We are also engaging with our 
local, regional and national communities. For example, 
I  recently  secured  outside  funding  to  allow  us  to 
provide training and support to Tanzanian law students 
and judges, thereby helping to share the Mechanism’s 
resources  and  expertise  with  our  host  State’s  legal 
community.
6/20 
15-30992
13/10/2015 
A/70/PV.31
I  will  end  my  remarks  on  the  specific  activities 
of  the  Mechanism  by  reiterating  how  grateful  the 
judges, my fellow principals, the staff and I are for the 
support of the international community, especially our 
host  States,  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  and  the 
Netherlands. As we attempt to fulfil our mandate in the 
best  way  possible,  the  support  of  the  United  Nations 
and its Members forms the essential foundation for all 
our efforts.
I will now turn to the ICTY. I can report that the 
Tribunal  continues  to  make  significant  progress  in 
completing the last of its trials and appeals. This year 
we  have  already  delivered  two  major  judgements:  in 
the very large Prosecutor v. Vujadin Popović et al. case 
involving  six  appellants,  and  in  the  complex  Tolimir
appeal. One more appeal judgement in the Stanišić and 
Simatović case is expected by the end of this year. Only 
four  trials  and  two  appeals  will  be  ongoing  as  of  the 
beginning  of  2016,  with  two  trials  completed  by  the 
first  quarter  of  the  new  year,  one  additional  trial  and 
one  appeal  completed  during  the  remainder  of  2016, 
and  the  two  last  cases  completed  before  the  end  of 
2017.  Accordingly,  the  ICTY  is  expected  to  complete 
its operations in about two years.
As  the  Tribunal  completes  its  remaining  judicial 
work,  it  is  rapidly  downsizing  and  certain  essential 
functions  are  being  transferred  to  the  Mechanism  in 
accordance with the mandate of the Security Council. 
The  Tribunal  is  committed  to  completing  its  work  as 
quickly and efficiently as possible. 
Of  course,  this  continued  downsizing,  as  I  have 
previously  noted,  inevitably  has  a  negative  effect  on 
staff morale, as employees of the Tribunal understand 
that their jobs may soon cease to exist and seek other 
professional opportunities. In circumstances like these, 
individuals’  understandable  search  for  security  can 
lead — and indeed has already led — to the departure 
of  key  drafting  team  members.  Such  attrition  has 
already caused delays to case completion. It has been a 
top priority for me as President to take every possible 
step to address this risk.
I  have  been  active  in  liaising  with  the  Registrar 
and with the Office of Human Resources Management 
to  obtain  waivers  to  regulations  that  may  constrain 
optimum recruitment and retention. In addition, I am in 
close contact with the presiding judges of all trials and 
appeals and have instructed the Registrar to supply all 
the resources they require in order to fully staff their 
cases and also to provide for promotion opportunities 
that  may  prevent  staff  attrition.  The  Registrar  has 
agreed to meet any request for resources from presiding 
judges. Adopting that approach will significantly reduce 
the risk of delays to projected judgement delivery dates.
My remarks today mark the last time I will appear 
before the Assembly as President of the ICTY. I have 
been deeply honoured to serve in this position between 
2003 and 2005 and again between 2011 and November 
of this year, having been elected and re-elected by my 
fellow judges. On a more personal level, I wish to say 
that, having lived through the Second World War and 
witnessed some of its horrors as a child, it has been a 
particular privilege for me to help guide the first of the 
modern era’s international criminal tribunals.
including 
the  ICTY, 
the  ICTR  and 
I am well aware that in recent times international 
courts, 
the 
International  Criminal  Court,  have  been  the  subject 
of  significant  criticism.  Some  of  these  reproaches 
can  be  explained  as  an  inevitable  by-product  of  the 
tribunals’  mandates  to  try  cases  of  extraordinary 
dimensions,  assessing  the  evidence  before  them  and 
individual  criminal  responsibility  without  regard 
to  how  these  verdicts  impact  on  particular  political 
agendas  or  align  with  popular  sentiment.  However, 
other criticisms, about matters such as the slowness of 
judicial proceedings and the significant costs of trials 
conducted at the international level, can often be quite 
fair.
It is partly because of these latter critiques and the 
need  to  address  them  in  a  substantive  way  that  I  am 
so  delighted  and  honoured  to  still  serve  as  President 
of  the  Mechanism.  As  I  noted  earlier,  I  believe  that 
this  institution  is  already  setting  an  influential  and 
important example of best practices by preserving and 
carrying forward the manifest strengths of the existing 
international  criminal  tribunals  while  reducing  costs 
and increasing efficiency.
But even as we dedicate our efforts at the Mechanism 
to  finding  new  ways  to  improve  our  work  and  our 
productivity, and to serving as a new and vital model 
for  international  justice,  we  must  not  let  such  efforts 
lead us to forget the ways in which the pioneers of this 
new  age  of  modern  international  criminal  tribunals, 
with  all  of  their  admitted  flaws,  have  transformed 
our understanding of, and responses to, grave crimes. 
As the first of the modern generation of international 
criminal  tribunals,  the  ICTY  and  the  ICTR  stand  as 
inspirational examples of the international community’s 
commitment to ending impunity and promoting the rule 
15-30992
7/20
A/70/PV.31 
13/10/2015
of law. Through their significant corpus of substantive 
and procedural judgements and decisions, the Tribunals 
have played a pre-eminent role in broadening knowledge 
of, and compliance with, customary international law, 
including, notably, with regard to prohibitions on sexual 
assault,  protections  applicable  in  non-international 
armed  conflicts,  and  jurisprudence  on  genocide  and 
crimes against humanity.
In  addition,  by  accounting  for  every  single 
individual  it  indicted,  the  ICTY  has  struck  a  blow 
against impunity that is difficult to equal, its example 
serving  as  a  stern  warning  to  those  who  would  hope 
to  escape  the  consequences  of  their  actions.  And  by 
giving rise to broader justice efforts, both national and 
international,  the  Tribunals  have  forever  altered  the 
global community’s response to future conflicts — as 
well  as  those  present  and  past  —  and  increased  the 
protections afforded to the most vulnerable populations 
affected by conflict.
In  celebrating  these  achievements,  much  credit 
is due to the judges, the United Nations staff and the 
attorneys  who  have  worked  tirelessly  at  and  with  the 
Tribunals to deliver on and indeed exceed their initial 
promise.  But  this  credit  is,  and  must  be,  shared  with 
all  the  Members  of the  United  Nations.  The  material, 
political  and  many  other  types  of  assistance  provided 
by the Member States have been essential to the success 
of  the  international  criminal  tribunals,  and  they  will 
remain crucial to the efforts to make these courts even 
more impactful and efficient in years to come. I cannot 
underscore enough that without the partnership of the 
Governments represented in the Assembly, none of the 
accomplishments  I  have  discussed  today  would  have 
been possible.
Of  course,  there  is  a  long  path  to  travel  until 
respect for the rule of law is universal and the concept 
of impunity is relegated to history. But the ICTY, the 
ICTR  and  their  fellow  courts  have  ushered  in  a  new 
era  of  international  law  in  just  the  past  two  decades 
alone  —  a  new  era  of  accountability  that  would  have 
been almost impossible to imagine even 30 years ago, 
far  less  in  the  dark  days  of  the  Second  World  War. 
I  am  confident  that  with  the  Assembly’s  support, 
international criminal tribunals such as the Mechanism 
can build upon these achievements in the years to come, 
serving as harbingers of a world reflecting the highest 
aspirations of the United Nations.
Mr. Marhic (European Union): I have the honour 
to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) and its 
member  States.  The  candidate  countries  Turkey,  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Serbia and Albania; the country of the Stabilization and 
Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia and 
Herzegovina; and the European Free Trade Association 
(EFTA) country Liechtenstein, member of the European 
Economic  Area,  as  well  as  Ukraine,  Armenia  and 
Georgia, align themselves with this statement.
their  achievements  and 
We reaffirm our unwavering support for the work 
of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda 
(ICTR),  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals.  We  praise  both 
Tribunals  for 
invaluable 
contributions to our shared goal of ending impunity for 
serious international crimes. We welcome the fact that 
the  Mechanism  increasingly  assumes  responsibility 
for  all  aspects  of  the  two  Tribunals’  work.  We  thank 
President Meron and President Joensen for their reports 
and commend them for their efforts in completing the 
work  of  the  Tribunals  and  advancing  the  work  of  the 
Mechanism. It is important that both Tribunals and the 
Mechanism receive the necessary support to complete 
their mandates.
role 
The  Tribunals  have  played  a  key 
in 
strengthening the rule of law and promoting long-term 
stability and reconciliation. Since their establishment, 
both Tribunals have embodied the need to fight impunity 
and the refusal by the international community to let the 
perpetrators of the most serious crimes of international 
concern  escape  justice.  They  were  forerunners  in 
creating  jurisprudence  in  their  field.  They  paved  the 
way for the International Criminal Court (ICC).
We  welcome  the  fact  that  the  ICTR  remains  on 
course for closure by the end of 2015, while the closure 
of  the  ICTY  is  foreseen  at  the  end  of  2017,  and  we 
value  the  fact  that  both  Tribunals  have  been  taking 
steps  to  ensure  a  smooth  handover  of  functions  to 
the  Mechanism.  Such  a  smooth  transition  process  is 
important in order for both branches of the Mechanism 
to  carry  on  and  protect  the  work  of  the  Tribunals. 
Finally,  we  note  with  satisfaction  that  both  Tribunals 
are  committed  to  completing  their  proceedings  in  an 
efficient  and  timely  manner,  without  compromising 
fair-trial rights.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give the floor to the observer of the European Union.
We  recall  that  the  responsibility  of  States  to 
cooperate  with  the  Tribunals  and  the  Mechanism,  in 
8/20 
15-30992
13/10/2015 
A/70/PV.31
particular in bringing those indicted to justice, remains 
crucial  to  the  ability  of  the  judicial  institutions  to 
complete  their  mandates.  With  respect  to  the  ICTR, 
we  recall  that,  despite  continuing  appeals  by  the 
international  community,  nine  accused  individuals 
remain  at  large,  including  six  whose  cases  have  been 
referred to Rwanda. The failure to arrest these fugitives 
is a matter of grave concern. 
We note with appreciation the new projects initiated 
by  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  of  the  Mechanism, 
jointly  developed  with  the  Rwandan  authorities,  to 
facilitate  the  tracking  and  arrest  of  the  remaining 
fugitives.  We  also  note  with  appreciation  the  support 
received  from  INTERPOL  and  some  Member  States, 
including  through  the  War  Crimes  Rewards  Program 
of the United States. We call upon all States concerned 
to  intensify  their  efforts  and  cooperation  with  the 
Arusha  branch  of  the  Mechanism  in  order  to  secure 
the arrest and surrender of all remaining fugitives. The 
increased cooperation of Member States is also needed 
with respect to the efforts deployed by the Mechanism 
to  relocate  acquitted  persons  and  convicted  persons 
released in the United Republic of Tanzania.
With regard to the ICTY, we note that at the closure 
of  the  reporting  period,  four  trials  and  three  appeals 
were  pending,  with  all  161  indicted  individuals  being 
accounted  for.  We  welcome  the  fact  that  the  organs 
of  the  Tribunal  have  adopted  measures  to  maximize 
the  efficiency  of  pending  judicial  proceedings  and  to 
minimize delays caused by the attrition of staff, the ill 
health of accused persons and unforeseen complexities 
in  some  proceedings.  We  note  that  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor  has  acknowledged  the  assistance  it  has 
received  from  the  European  Union  and  its  member 
States,  and  we  will  continue  to  support  the  Office 
of  the  Prosecutor.  We  welcome  the  fact  that  the  joint 
European  Union/ICTY  Training  Project  for  National 
Prosecutors and Young Professionals from the former 
Yugoslavia remains a central component of the efforts 
of the Office of the Prosecutor to build national capacity 
in the national justice sectors. 
We  also  note  that  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor 
remains satisfied with the level of cooperation between 
the Office and the authorities in the States concerned. 
Completing 
justice  for 
crimes  committed  during  the  conflicts  in  the  former 
Yugoslavia is an essential contribution to lasting peace, 
accountability and the rule of law. Full cooperation with 
the ICTY therefore remains an essential condition of the 
the  process  of  rendering 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  in  the  Western 
Balkans and is an essential condition for membership 
of the European Union.
the 
to  handle 
We  welcome  the  work  of  the  Tribunals  and  the 
Mechanism  on  strengthening  the  capacity  of  national 
the  remaining  war  crimes 
authorities 
cases  effectively.  We  fully  support 
training 
and  information  exchanges  as  well  as  the  access  to 
publicly available investigating material and evidence 
from  the  Tribunals.  In  the  context  of  the  twentieth 
anniversary of the genocide in Srebrenica, which was 
commemorated in July 2015, this is important for the 
Tribunal’s  legacy  and  for  strengthening  the  domestic 
capacity to adjudicate war crimes. In its Stabilization 
and Association Process for the Western Balkans, the 
EU is increasingly underlining the importance of local 
ownership for handling war crimes cases in line with the 
need to fight impunity. In this regard, the EU’s direct 
budgetary support to domestic war crimes prosecution, 
in place since 2013 in some Western Balkan countries, 
complements the efforts to increase national capacities 
in tackling the backlog of war crimes cases. 
We note that the Office of the Prosecutor continued 
to  promote  improved  regional  cooperation  between 
States  of  the  former  Yugoslavia  in  judicial  matters, 
and we welcome the fact that meaningful results were 
achieved in this regard, even if key challenges remain. 
We  call  on  the  States  of  the  former  Yugoslavia  to 
continue  regional  cooperation  in  criminal  matters,  in 
accordance with the rules and principles of international 
law,  including  international  criminal  law.  We  note 
the  serious  concerns  expressed  by  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor in the parts of the report addressing national 
war crimes prosecutions, in particular in relation to the 
fact that national prosecution offices have not yet fully 
adopted  and  implemented  strategic  approaches  to  the 
investigation and prosecution of war crimes, including 
prioritization of the most complex cases.
We note that the Arusha branch of the Office of the 
Prosecutor  of  the  International  Residual  Mechanism 
continued  to  monitor  progress  in  cases  transferred 
to  national  jurisdictions,  and  that  work  is  ongoing  on 
a  number  of  projects,  including  a  regional  training 
programme  on  the  investigation  and  prosecution  of 
sexual and gender-based violence. We welcome the fact 
that the efforts of the ICTR regarding capacity-building, 
training and education have now expanded beyond East 
Africa  and  include  the  sharing  of  best  practices  and 
15-30992
9/20
A/70/PV.31 
13/10/2015
lessons  learned  with  other  international  tribunals  and 
domestic authorities.
We will continue to support both the principle and 
the  system  of  international  criminal  justice,  together 
with its essential role in bringing about lasting peace, 
accountability  and  the  rule  of  law,  and  we  call  on  all 
States to do the same. 
We urge all States to cooperate with both Tribunals 
and branches of the Mechanism, in full compliance with 
their  obligations  under  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions.  It  is  indeed  important  that  knowledge 
gained and lessons learned in the fight against impunity 
are not forgotten.
Mr.  Norman  (Canada):  I  have  the  honour  of 
speaking  today  on  behalf  of  New  Zealand,  Australia 
and my own country, Canada (CANZ). 
Let  me  first  thank  Presidents  Meron  and  Joensen 
for their reports and their diligence and hard work.
CANZ wishes to take the opportunity to reaffirm 
its strong support for the International Tribunal for the 
Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), the International Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR)  and  the  International 
Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals.  During 
the  more  than  20  years  since  their  establishment,  the 
Tribunals have developed the practice of international 
criminal 
and 
management  of  complex  criminal  proceedings.  They 
have added breadth and depth to international criminal 
law  jurisprudence,  administering  justice  in  cases 
involving  some  of  the  most  horrific  crimes  in  recent 
history.  The  many  achievements  and  the  enormous 
contribution of the Tribunals towards ending impunity 
cannot be overstated.
administration 
the 
law 
through 
CANZ acknowledges the efforts of the Tribunals as 
they work towards their completion strategy deadlines, 
all  the  while  ensuring  that  fundamental  procedural 
safeguards are met. Significantly, there are no fugitives 
at  large  from  the  ICTY.  The  Tribunal  has  concluded 
proceedings  against  147  of  161  indictees.  Four  trials 
involving four individuals and three appeals involving 
ten individuals continue before the ICTY. Decisions are 
expected before the end of this year in two of the trials.
CANZ  acknowledges  that  staff  attrition  is  an 
increasing challenge for the ICTY and that the loss of 
senior staff and their extensive case-specific knowledge 
has resulted in delays. We encourage the United Nations 
to look at creative solutions to meet this challenge and 
encourage the ICTY to continue in its efforts to ensure 
that  its  remaining  judicial  proceedings  are  advanced 
both efficiently and effectively.
The  ICTR  has  completed  its  work  on  substantive 
cases  at  the  trial  level  for  all  93  indictees,  including 
referring  ten  accused  to  national  jurisdictions  for 
prosecution.  Nine  fugitives  remain  at  large,  three 
of  whom  will  be  tried  by  the  Residual  Mechanism  if 
apprehended.  The  cooperation  of  States  is  crucial  to 
the  arrest  and  surrender  of  these  individuals.  CANZ 
welcomes  the  Tribunal’s  proactive  approach  and  its 
commitment to meeting its completion targets.
Without wishing to downplay the significant efforts 
of  the  Tribunals’  judges,  staff  members,  prosecutors, 
and defence counsel, CANZ notes that States, too, have 
a  central  role  to  play  as  facilitators  of  the  Tribunals’ 
important  work  towards  ending  impunity.  In  this 
regard,  we  acknowledge  that  the  final  apprehension 
of outstanding fugitives for the ICTY was due in large 
part to the cooperative efforts of States and the ICTY 
Prosecutor.
CANZ  encourages  similar  cooperation,  including 
with  the  Residual  Mechanism  pursuant  to  Security 
Council resolution 2150 (2014), by all States in relation 
to the nine outstanding fugitives of the ICTR. We must 
engage in dialogue on options to address the plight of 
the  persons  acquitted  and  released  by  the  ICTR  who 
need to be relocated from Arusha. The Tribunals’ work 
does not end with the delivery of a final judgement. Part 
of their legacy lies in the ongoing welfare of victims and 
witnesses, as well as accused and sentenced persons.
(spoke in French)
CANZ  wishes  to  reiterate  its  support  for  the 
December  2010  decision  of  the  Security  Council  to 
establish  the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for 
Criminal  Tribunals  (Security  Council  resolution  1966 
(2010),  which  is  integral  to  ensuring  that  the  rule  of 
law,  the  practical  application  of  criminal  justice,  the 
protection  of  witnesses  and  the  maintenance  of  the 
Tribunal  archives  continue  beyond  the  completion  of 
the  Tribunals’  respective  mandates.  We  welcome  the 
fact that the most recent reports of the ICTY and ICTR 
demonstrate  the  Tribunals’  commitment  to  ensuring 
that their remaining activities are effectively transferred 
to the Residual Mechanism.
The Security Council emphasized that the Residual 
Mechanism  should  be  a  small  and  efficient  structure. 
For  this  goal  to  be  realized,  close  cooperation  and 
10/20 
15-30992
13/10/2015 
A/70/PV.31
consultation between the Mechanism and the Tribunals 
is  essential,  as  is  cooperation  by  Member  States. 
CANZ  notes  the  work  being  undertaken  to  ensure  a 
smooth transition and to share best practices. We look 
forward to the results of the 2016 review of the Residual 
Mechanism.
The successful completion of the Tribunals’ work 
and  their  ultimate  legacy  for  international  criminal 
justice are dependent, in large part, on the individual 
and collective efforts of Member States. For our part, 
New  Zealand,  Australia  and  Canada  will  continue  to 
offer our full cooperation and support to the Tribunals 
and to the Residual Mechanism to give practical effect 
to our steadfast commitment to international criminal 
justice.
Ms. Stener (Norway): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the Nordic countries: Denmark, Finland, 
Iceland, Sweden and my own country, Norway.
Let  me  first  thank  Judge  Meron,  President  of  the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
(ICTY) and the International Residual Mechanism for 
Criminal Tribunals, and Judge Vagn Joensen, President 
of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda 
(ICTR),  for 
they 
submitted  to  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council.
informative  annual  reports 
the 
We  applaud 
the  significant  achievements  of 
both  Tribunals  over  the  past  22  years,  which  have 
included  important  contributions  to  the  development 
of  international  criminal  law  during  that  period.  In 
particular, both Tribunals deserve praise for their work 
in  the  area  of  addressing  sexual  and  gender-based 
crimes. The important achievements of the International 
Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda should be given special 
mention at this juncture, as the Tribunal is in its final 
months  of  functioning.  Closure  of  the  Tribunal  is 
projected for December, and only the liquidation of the 
Tribunal’s assets is expected to continue after 2015. The 
impact of the ICTR, in both the short term and the long 
term, has been profound. The same can be said of its 
impact at the local level and on the international stage.
With  the  Akayesu  judgement  in  1998,  the  ICTR 
became the first-ever international tribunal to convict 
a person for genocide since the adoption in 1948 of the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime of Genocide. With the Kambanda judgement, the 
ICTR became the first tribunal to convict a former head 
of  State  for  such  crimes.  In  providing  a  definition  of 
rape and in recognizing rape as an act of genocide, the 
ICTR has also been at the forefront of the development 
of  international  criminal  law.  Clearly,  its  legacy  will 
play an important role in preventing similar atrocities 
from taking place in the future. We also find particular 
reason  to  highlight  the  legacy  of  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor of the ICTR, which has contributed greatly 
to general capacity-building and to the sharing of best 
practices among practitioners in the field.
At the ICTY, there are now ongoing proceedings for 
only 14 accused, of which four are at the trial level and 
ten  are  before  the  Appeals  Chamber.  Work  to  ensure 
a  continued  smooth  transfer  of  the  ICTY’s  functions 
to the Residual Mechanism for International Criminal 
Tribunals  is  continuing.  No  fugitives  are  at  large.  As 
for  other  international  criminal  tribunals  and  courts, 
cooperation with national jurisdictions is an important 
matter for the ICTY. We have noted the important work 
of the Office of the Prosecutor on this matter, including 
in support of domestic war-crimes prosecutions.
The International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals  plays  a  key  role  in  the  overall  United 
Nations system in dealing with the crimes committed 
in  the  Balkans  and  in  Rwanda,  as  it  is  tasked  with 
continuing the jurisdiction, rights and obligations, and 
essential functions of the ICTR and the ICTY and with 
maintaining  the  legacy  of  both  institutions  after  the 
completion of their mandates. During the past year, the 
Appeals Chamber of the Mechanism delivered its first 
judgement.  The  Mechanism’s  Registry  coordinated 
a  wide  range  of  judicial  services,  including  the 
protection  of  witnesses,  the  enforcement  of  sentences 
and collaboration with the Tribunals on the preparation 
of records and archives for transfer to the Mechanism.
Like  the  ICTY  and  the  ICTR,  the  Mechanism 
depends  on  the  cooperation  of  national  Governments 
to arrest three of the nine fugitives still at large from 
the ICTR, who are to be tried before the Mechanism. 
As United Nations Member States, we are all obliged to 
cooperate unconditionally and to comply with requests 
for assistance and orders from the Mechanism. We take 
this  opportunity  to  encourage  all  States  to  intensify 
their efforts regarding that important matter.
Mr.  Orellana  Zabalza  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
(ICTY)  and  of  the  International  Residual  Mechanism 
for Criminal Tribunals, Judge Meron, and the President 
of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda 
15-30992
11/20
A/70/PV.31 
13/10/2015
(ICTR), Judge Joensen, for their excellent statements. 
Their briefings, together with the annual reports of the 
Tribunals  that  we  have  before  us,  reflect  the  tireless 
efforts  that  the  Tribunals  have  made  to  successfully 
comply with their mandates.
With regard to the International Criminal Tribunal 
for Rwanda, we welcome the important progress made 
during the past year towards the goals of its completion 
strategy,  in  particular  with  regard  to  appeals  and  the 
transition  to  the  International  Residual  Mechanism 
for  Criminal  Tribunals.  The  imminent  closure  of  the 
Tribunal  is  reason  for  great  satisfaction,  and  we  pay 
tribute to the President for leaving us a legacy of great 
legal, political, historical and international value. That 
represents  a  success  for  the  Tribunals  and  a  success 
for  the  United  Nations  and  the  entire  international 
community.
At the same time, much remains to be done before 
the  Tribunal  can  close  its  doors.  I  am  referring  in 
particular  to  the  urgent  situation  of  the  acquitted  or 
released  persons  and  those  who  have  served  their 
sentences  and  are  living  in  safe  houses  in  Arusha. 
That must be a priority, and the Security Council must 
resolve that issue, since it is a major humanitarian issue 
with major consequences for the Council’s credibility. 
It seems practical to us for that issue to be dealt with by 
the Residual Mechanism, and we hope that the strategic 
plan for relocation, introduced in June of this year in 
order to find a sustainable solution to the issue, will be 
successfully implemented. 
Let us recall that the cooperation of States continues 
to be the cornerstone of the Tribunal’s ability to conclude 
its  mandate  and  of  the  Mechanism’s  continuing  to 
comply with its residual functions. Although it is true 
that  the  transfer  of  cases  to  national  jurisdictions  has 
facilitated the conclusion of the Rwanda Tribunal, that 
goal will have been truly reached when all the fugitives 
have been arrested and brought to justice, either before 
the  Residual  Mechanism  or  before  national  tribunals. 
We trust that Member States will continue to be united 
in that common effort. 
We support the holding of an event next month on 
the occasion of the closure of the Tribunal. Guatemala’s  
full collaboration can be relied on so that the Tribunal 
can  complete  its  mandate  and  that  the  Mechanism 
will  then  be  able  to  fully  assume  jurisdiction  and 
responsibility for the residual functions and archives of 
the Tribunal. 
The  main  objective  of  the  Tribunals  is  to  punish 
perpetrators and respond to the victims. In the case of 
the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia, 
we  see  that  161  accused  were  brought  to  trial,  80 
sentences were passed, and the cases undergoing a first 
trial and the three pending appeals are well under way. 
We  congratulate  the  members  of  the  ICTY  for  their 
determination  to  implement  the  completion  strategy. 
We  especially  highlight  the  personal  efforts  of  the 
President of the Tribunal to prevent delays.
It is fundamental to assist the Tribunal to conclude 
its  work  on  time.  We  listened  with  close  attention  to 
the concerns expressed by the President with regard to 
the Tribunal’s capacity to maintain the pace of its work 
while it meets the timeline for the completion. In recent 
years we have heard how staff shortages and the loss of 
staff have affected trials and appeals. We share those 
concerns, and we hope that the required support will be 
provided so that the Tribunal can successfully complete 
its mandate.
We reiterate the risks in conducting a simple cost/
benefit exercise in order to measure the degree of justice. 
The  fight  against  impunity  and  the  determination  of 
the truth are values that justify themselves, especially 
in  such  serious  situations  as  those  brought  before  the 
Tribunals.
In  July,  20  years  had  passed  since  the  Srebrenica 
genocide.  For  Guatemala,  the  commemoration  of 
Srebrenica was important for two reasons: first, for the 
victims and as a reminder of the situation in which the 
Balkan region finds itself; and secondly, the role that 
international  criminal  justice  played  and  continues  to 
play especially through this International Tribunal.
We are pleased at the progress made in the transition 
to the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals. We welcome the support of both Tribunals 
to ensure a gradual, effective transition to the Residual 
Mechanism. The Mechanism has conducted its judicial 
and  other  work  with  remarkable  speed,  while  at  the 
same time upholding the highest standards. It is a model 
for institutions of international criminal justice.
The  Mechanism  is  also  essential  because  beyond 
the judicial proceedings, there is a central aspect behind 
the creation of the Tribunals that we should never lose 
sight of. I am referring to the promotion of peace and 
reconciliation.  Although  the  Tribunals  have  made 
considerable contributions towards that end, there are 
other important elements for supporting reconciliation, 
12/20 
15-30992
13/10/2015 
A/70/PV.31
such  as  the  appropriate  management  of  archives  and 
assistance to national jurisdictions.
We  want  the  legacy  of  the  Tribunals  to  be 
preserved. As the work of both Tribunals draws to its 
end, there is no doubt that they have established a solid 
basis for international peace and justice, thanks to their 
development and application of international criminal 
law.
Lastly, I wish to avail myself of this opportunity to 
express our unconditional support for the International 
Tribunals and the Residual Mechanism and to encourage 
States to continue supporting those institutions.
Ms. Butts (United States of America): The United 
States  thanks  Presidents  Meron  and  Joensen  for  their 
reports on the work of the International Tribunal for the 
Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), the International Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR)  and  the  International 
Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals.  Without 
the  diligence  and  hard  work  of  the  Tribunals  and 
their  determination  to  bring  justice  to  the  victims  of 
the  atrocities  committed  in  the  former  Yugoslavia 
and  Rwanda,  many  of  those  responsible  for  those 
atrocities  would  not  have  been  held  accountable  for 
their  crimes.  Thanks  to  the  Tribunals,  the  victims  of 
horrific atrocities have received a meaningful measure 
of justice, and the international community has greatly 
advanced  international  peace  and  security  during  the 
past 20 years through the justice and accountability the 
Tribunals have provided for the atrocities committed.
As  the  ICTR  prepares  to  close  in  the  next  few 
months,  the  United  States  would  like  to  extend 
its  deep  appreciation  to  the  Tribunal’s  many  staff 
members, including judges, prosecutors, support staff, 
investigators and the defence attorneys, who took care 
over the past decades to be compassionate with victims, 
uphold  the  principles  of  international  law  and  ensure 
the legacy of the Tribunal.
Thanks  to  its  hard  work,  the  ICTR  concluded  all 
of  its  trials  in  2012  and  is  close  to  completing  all  of 
the  appeals  work,  with  just  one  appeals  judgement  in 
a  complex,  multi-defendant  case  to  be  delivered  by 
the  end  of  the  year.  Despite  difficulties  in  replacing 
experienced  staff,  the  Tribunal  is  set  for  a  smooth 
and efficient transition to the Residual Mechanism, as 
well  as  to  national  courts,  where  proceedings  against 
the ICTR indictees who remain at large are set to take 
place.
We also commend the ICTY for a productive year. 
Judgements  have  been  issued  in  two  appeals,  plus  an 
additional  six  interlocutory  appeals,  and  progress  has 
been  made  on  the  four  cases  remaining  at  the  trial 
level. We welcome the efforts by the Trial Chambers to 
expedite judgements in those cases and to ensure that 
they are delivered on time. Our appreciation also goes 
to the Victim and Witness Section, which has provided 
services to the 206 witnesses who have appeared before 
the Tribunal and has completed its goal of conducting 
300  witness  interviews,  all  the  while  protecting  the 
integrity  of  the  process  and  the  human  dignity  of  the 
witnesses. We also express our deep appreciation and 
admiration for Judge Theodor Meron, who will shortly 
complete his term as President of the ICTY and whose 
wise leadership has guided the Tribunal during the last 
few years.
International  criminal  law  is  one  of  the  greatest 
vehicles  we  have  for  promoting  peace  and  justice 
throughout  the  world.  As  the  grim  events  across  the 
world  remind  us,  from  Syria  to  the  Central  African 
Republic, South Sudan and North Korea, the challenge 
of  ending  mass  atrocities  is  greater  than  ever,  but 
institutions  such  as  the  ICTY  and  the  ICTR  are 
responsible for providing the necessary justice that is 
owed  to  victims  who  have  suffered  the  greatest  harm 
that  can  be  inflicted  on  humanity  —  genocide,  war 
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity.  By  building  an 
extraordinary  legal  edifice  of  international  criminal 
accountability, 
lay 
the  groundwork  for  future  generations  to  prosecute 
violations  of  international  law  more  efficiently  and 
with a better understanding of the law.
the  Tribunals  have  helped 
to 
By  this  time  next  year,  the  ICTR  will  have 
successfully  completed  its  mandate  and  will  have 
transferred  its  remaining  workload  to  the  Residual 
Mechanism.  That  will  mark  the  end  of  an  era  that, 
combined  with  the  work  of  the  ICTY,  has  thoroughly 
advanced international law, showed how international 
ad hoc tribunals can be successful, and revealed what 
the  international  community  can  do  on  behalf  of  the 
victims  of  atrocities.  And  so  the  United  States  would 
like to thank all of those who worked with the ICTR to 
make it such a successful endeavour. 
May  the  victims  in  Rwanda  and  the  former 
Yugoslavia  never  be  forgotten,  and  may  the  lessons 
learned  from  the  ICTR  and  the  ICTY  always  be 
remembered.
15-30992
13/20
A/70/PV.31 
13/10/2015
Mr. Obradović (Serbia): I am very privileged and 
honoured  to  speak  here  today  as  the  representative 
of  the  Republic  of  Serbia.  Before  I  proceed,  I  should 
like  to  welcome  Judge  Theodor  Meron,  President  of 
the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
(ICTY) and the International Residual Mechanism for 
Criminal Tribunals, and Judge Vagn Joensen, President 
of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda 
(ICTR), and thank them for their annual reports.
As  a  European  Union  candidate  country,  Serbia 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  earlier  by  the 
representative  of  the  European  Union.  As  Serbia  has 
a very high stake in the ICTY proceedings, however, I 
feel duty-bound to add a few observations on Serbia’s 
behalf  in  my  capacity  as  its  representative  to  this 
meeting.
Serbia remains firmly committed to the principles 
and  system  of  international  criminal  justice  and  its 
essential  role  in  fighting  impunity.  It  has  followed 
the  ICTY  activities  with  great  attention  and  interest, 
especially those concerning the completion of its long-
lasting trials. However, it has seen its grave concerns 
borne  out  once  again  by  the  failure  to  determine  the 
date of the rendering of the trial judgement in the Šešelj 
case. 
leanings 
right-wing 
The  accused,  Vojislav  Šešelj,  is  a  citizen  of  my 
country.  He  is  the  leader  of  an  opposition  party  with 
significant 
in  domestic  and 
regional  politics.  Charged  with  serious  allegations 
for  crimes  against  humanity  in  his  alleged  role  in 
events  that  took  place  at  the  beginning  of  the  armed 
conflicts  in  the  former  Yugoslavia,  he  has  still  not 
been sentenced. Waiting for the completion of the first-
instance proceedings for more than 12 years, he spent 
11  years  and  8  months  in  United  Nations  detention. 
Even  the  Trial  Chamber  raised  concern  in  his  case 
when it said that the “very long provisional detention ... 
as time went on, became more and more irreconcilable 
with the presumption of innocence and the guarantees 
of a fair trial”. 
By  an  order  of  6  November  2014,  issued  on 
humanitarian  grounds,  the  accused  was  provisionally 
released and transferred to Serbia, where he is receiving 
therapy  for  a  life-threatening  disease.  His  case  is  an 
example  of  the  failure  of  the  international  criminal 
judiciary to fulfil its highest purposes and ambitions.
Meanwhile,  Serbia  continues 
firmly 
committed  to  cooperating  with  the  Tribunal  and  has 
to  be 
done its best to fulfil its international obligations. The 
satisfaction of the Office of the Prosecutor with the level 
of  cooperation  shown  by  Serbia  has  been  expressed 
in  the  ICTY  report.  Serbia,  for  its  part,  continues  to 
give  its  full  support  to  the  efforts  being  made  by  the 
President, the judges, the Office of the Prosecutor and 
the Registry aimed at completing the activities of the 
International Tribunal in preparation for the transition 
to the Residual Mechanism. We trust and believe that 
the transitional process can be carried out without any 
negative  effect  on  the  procedural  rights,  either  of  the 
accused persons or of the victims.
At  the  domestic  level,  I  am  glad  to  inform  the 
General Assembly that the Serbian judiciary continues 
to investigate, prosecute and try persons suspected of 
committing the worst atrocities in the 1990s. The draft 
national strategy on war crimes issues will be published 
at  the  end  of  this  year.  That  document  will  contain  a 
road  map  for  the  future  activities  and  improvements 
needed in that field with regard to both domestic trials 
and  regional  cooperation.  The  Government  of  the 
Republic  of  Serbia  firmly  believes  that  the  domestic 
prosecution of the core international crimes committed 
during  the  armed  conflicts  of  the  1990s  is  one  of  the 
most  important  steps  in  the  process  of  reconciliation, 
as  well  as  for  the  development  of  good  neighbourly 
relations and lasting peace in the region of the former 
Yugoslavia.
Furthermore,  the  efficient  prosecution  of  war 
crimes is a precondition for the full democratization of 
our society through the affirmation of the rule of law 
and respect for the principles of humanitarian law, which 
are the cherished achievements of modern humankind. 
It is a joint duty for all of the countries of our region 
to  investigate  and  prosecute  persons  responsible  for 
the  most  serious  crimes,  including  those  committed 
in  Srebrenica,  Sarajevo,  Vukovar,  Knin,  Kosovo  and 
Metohija  or  anywhere  else  in  the  former  Yugoslavia. 
Those  proceedings  must  be  conducted  without  any 
discrimination  on  the  basis  of  the  national,  ethnic  or 
religious origin of either the perpetrator or the victim.
However,  Serbia  cannot  be  satisfied  with  the 
manner  in  which  that  goal  is  being  achieved.  On  the 
international  level,  we  have  noted  that  in  almost  all 
major  ICTY  cases  in  which  the  victims  were  groups 
or  individuals  of  Serb  ethnicity,  the  accused  were 
acquitted.  We  were  led  to  believe  that  remedies  for 
such imbalances could be found in proceedings before 
national courts. Yet that has not been the case. Although, 
14/20 
15-30992
13/10/2015 
A/70/PV.31
for instance, both the ICTY and the International Court 
of Justice have recognized that the civilian population 
of Serb ethnic origin was exposed to random murders 
during and after Croatia’s military Operation Storm in 
1995, only one person in that country has been finally 
convicted for the war crime of murder so far.
Nonetheless,  the  ICTY  report  deals  readily  with 
the trials in Serbia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but 
not  in  Croatia.  At  the  same  time,  Croatia  denies  the 
jurisdiction of Serbian judicial bodies to prosecute war 
crimes committed in the territory of another country. 
What is that, then, if not an attempt to establish impunity 
for its citizens? A similar selective approach has become 
ever more visible in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the 
failure to prosecute Kosovo Albanians for war crimes 
has been clearly recognized by the establishment of a 
new internationalized judicial mechanism to prosecute 
such cases.
Through  its  cooperation  with  the  ICTY  over  the 
past 15 years Serbia has made a significant contribution 
to the system of international criminal justice. Yet we 
did  not  expect  that  justice  would  remain  selective. 
Serbia  fully  supports  that  part  of  the  ICTY  report  in 
which  the  States  are  called  upon  to  improve  regional 
cooperation in that field. Moreover, we believe that in 
the  interests  of  international  justice,  a  mechanism  is 
needed for strict and constant international monitoring 
of such cooperation. My country has nothing to hide, 
and  we  expect  other  Governments  to  take  the  same 
approach.
Another open question for Serbia in that process is 
the overall humanitarian status of its citizens who have 
been convicted by the ICTY and are serving sentences 
in various countries under differing penal regimes and 
treatment  programmes.  While  international  criminal 
law has been highly developed by the ICTY case law, it 
is true that international penology does not exist today, 
as such.
It  must  be  noted  that  the  United  Nations  has 
done  almost  nothing  in  that  field.  The  first  results  of 
the  research  conducted  into  that  issue  show  that  the 
convicted persons, most often politicians, army generals 
and other Government officials, have not been accorded 
any special treatment reflective of the specific nature of 
their responsibility. Many of them serve their sentences 
in  penitentiaries  that  are  thousands  of  kilometres 
away  from  their  countries  and  their  societies.  They 
do  not  understand  the  language  or  the  culture  of  the 
prison community. And, as stated in the reports of the 
International Committee of the Red Cross, they do not 
receive regular visits by their families. It makes them 
doubly isolated — from outside society and from prison 
inmates.
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
They also frequently protest the medical treatment 
that  they  receive,  most  often  because  they  don’t 
understand  the  medical  standards  of  the  societies  in 
which the prisons are situated. They also do not have 
legal  aid  conforming  to  the  specific  international 
judicial  procedure  under  which 
they  have  been 
convicted. For that reason, in 2009 Serbia asked to sign 
the  agreement  on  the  enforcement  of  ICTY  sentences 
in order to be added to the list of countries in which the 
sentences  are  enforced.  But,  even  though  my  country 
is a party to such an agreement with the International 
Criminal Court, its request to the United Nations with 
respect to that matter has never been properly attended 
to. The failure to address those questions and provide a 
response to the request has had a negative effect on the 
general attitude of Serbian society towards the ICTY, 
its work and its legacy.
Mr.  Manongi  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  At 
the outset, the United Republic of Tanzania reaffirms 
its  strong  support  for  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunals  for  Rwanda  and  the  former  Yugoslavia  and 
the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal 
Tribunals  and  wishes  to  extend  its  appreciation  to 
Judge  Vagn  Joensen,  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR),  and  to  Judge 
Theodor Meron, President of the International Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals, for their briefings 
today. We note with gratitude the progress achieved in 
the activities of the Tribunals during the period under 
review.
The  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  acknowledges 
the efforts of the ICTR and the International Tribunal 
for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  to  implement 
their  completion  strategies.  We  are  gratified  that  the 
Residual  Mechanism  has  now  assumed  responsibility 
for many functions. While the transition is going well, 
some critical work remains to be done. We are pleased 
to note that the formal closure of the ICTR is on track 
for  31  December,  with  only  liquidation  activities 
remaining.
However,  as  the  closure  of  the  ICTR  approaches, 
we  must  remain  mindful  of  the  plight  of  the  persons 
15-30992
15/20
A/70/PV.31 
13/10/2015
released  or  acquitted  by  the  Tribunal,  who  deserve 
relocation as a legitimate entitlement of law and justice. 
We  are  pleased  to  note  that,  in  the  bid  to  implement 
its  completion  strategy,  the  ICTY  has  continued  with 
the  process  of  downsizing  its  operations  and  the 
transfer of responsibilities to the International Residual 
Mechanism.  The  fact  that  only  seven  cases  —  four 
trials  and  three  appeals  —remain  demonstrates  the 
Tribunal’s  commitment  to  completing  its  mandate 
expeditiously and in accordance with due process. My 
delegation calls for the same levels of support at their 
closure as we provided at their inception.
Last  year 
its 
the  Tribunal  marked 
We  also  commend  the  support  rendered  by  the 
Legal  Counsel  and  the  Office  of  Legal  Affairs  of  the 
United  Nations  Secretariat,  as  well  as  the  Security 
Council  Informal  Working  Group  on  International 
Tribunals, in ensuring the continued smooth transition 
of the Tribunal’s functions to the Residual Mechanism.
twentieth 
anniversary,  and  as  it  prepares  to  close  its  work  by 
this year’s end, it would be remiss on our part as a host 
country if we failed to recognize the great legacy that 
the Tribunal has left to international criminal law in the 
region and the international community. The Tribunal 
has  not  only  enriched  jurisprudence  and  law  practice 
through  its  seminal  work  but  has  also  served  as  a 
research, learning and educational hub for universities, 
colleges, high schools and local and international courts 
in the area of international criminal law.
Throughout its existence the ICTR has sustained its 
efforts to transfer expertise and information to national 
and regional authorities with a view to building capacity 
in national criminal justice sectors. It has also shared 
the lessons learned and best practices developed from 
its  work  with  national  counterparts.  That  has  added 
great value to international judicial practice not only in 
the region but worldwide.
The  report  of 
the  Residual  Mechanism  (see 
A/70/225)  reflects  its  tireless  efforts  to  develop  a 
structure  to  govern  its  activities,  mindful  of  the 
need  to  develop  rules,  procedures  and  policies  that 
harmonize  and  build  upon  the  best  practices  of  both 
the  ICTR  and  the  ICTY.  We  are  pleased  to  note  that 
the  Residual  Mechanism  has  continued  to  operate 
from its two branches in Arusha and in The Hague. It 
is  commendable  that,  as  the  Tribunals  complete  their 
work and progressively downsize their operations, the 
Mechanism is gearing up and relying less and less on 
the support services of the two Tribunals and continues 
the  process  of  establishing  its  own  small,  standing 
administration.
Obviously,  the  common  administration  of  the 
two  branches  located  in  two  continents  poses  unique 
challenges.  We  urge  the  Residual  Mechanism  to 
be  sensitive  to  its  operational  costs,  with  a  view  to 
discharging its mandate fully and efficiently. We also 
call on the Mechanism to continue to work closely with 
the  Tribunals’  principals  and  staff  so  as  to  ensure  a 
smooth transition of the remaining functions.
As  we  commend  measures  taken  by  the  Residual 
Mechanism and the two Tribunals consistent with their 
transitional arrangements, we wish to renew the appeal 
to the international community to continue cooperating 
with both the Mechanism and the Tribunals to ensure 
the  arrest  of  the  remaining  fugitives  and  the  timely 
reallocation  of  acquitted  persons  and  those  who 
have  completed  their  sentences.  In  the  meantime, 
the  Government  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania 
will  continue  to  extend  the  necessary  support  to  the 
Mechanism and the Tribunals.
The practical arrangements made by the Secretary-
General pursuant to Security Council resolution 1966 
(2010)  to  ensure  that  the  operations  of  the  Residual 
Mechanism  commence  are, 
in  our  view,  quite 
admirable. It is our firm conviction that, with the active 
steps taken by the Secretary-General and the support of 
Member States, the resources necessary to implement 
the  projects  must  be  approved  and  dispersed  so  that 
the premises for the Arusha branch of the Mechanism 
will be completed in a timely manner and occupied as 
planned.
For  our  part,  the  Government  of  Tanzania  has 
provided  the  necessary  infrastructure,  including  land 
commissioned  by  His  Excellency  President  Kikwete 
early this July. We have also provided access roads and 
electricity and have nearly completed the provision of 
water and other services, including cable connections 
for the Internet.
In  closing,  we  wish  to  commend  the  ICTR,  its 
judges and staff for their dedication and commitment. 
We also want to reiterate our sincere appreciation to the 
international  community  for  the  trust  and  confidence 
bestowed upon Tanzania to host the ICTR for the past 
20 years since the tragedy of the genocide in Rwanda. 
The establishment of the ICTR and the ICTY was a sad 
reminder of the worst instincts of the human being. It 
16/20 
15-30992
13/10/2015 
A/70/PV.31
must also be a reminder that “never again” must mean 
what it says, and not “again and again”.
Mr. Gorostegui Obanoz (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): 
Chile wishes once again to acknowledge the work of the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  and 
the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, as well 
as the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals,  aware  of  their  significant  contributions  to 
international  justice  and  the  progressive  development 
of international law since the creation of the Tribunals. 
We  are  grateful  to  the  Presidents  of  the  Tribunals 
for  their  leadership,  and  through  them  we  thank  the 
Prosecutors, Registrars and all those who have served 
the Tribunals, which are already considered to serve as 
a model in the fight for accountability and for ending 
impunity.
We welcome with great satisfaction the news that 
the  work  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda will conclude in Tanzania in December. Chile 
reiterates  the  need  for  international  cooperation  so 
that a solution can be found, both for the 11 acquitted 
individuals who are still in safe houses in Arusha and 
need to be relocated, as well as for the nine indictees 
who are still at large, six of them under the jurisdiction 
of  Rwanda  and  three  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Residual Mechanism.
In  the  case  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Former  Yugoslavia,  which  is  scheduled  to  close  in 
2017, while we understand there are still some pending 
challenges for its completion strategy, we are confident 
that  all  members  of  the  international  community, 
in  particular  the  Security  Council,  will  provide  the 
support needed for it to fulfil its mandate and to ensure 
the proper functioning of the Residual Mechanism with 
regard to both Tribunals, as has been the case so far.
Lastly,  we  encourage  the  development  of  best 
practices  in  international  criminal  justice  for  all 
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  and  we  advocate 
appropriate  support  for  and  implementation  of  the 
principles of universal jurisdiction and complementarity.
Mr. Drobnjak (Croatia): Croatia aligns itself with 
the  statement  delivered  earlier  by  the  observer  of  the 
European  Union.  In  addition,  I  should  like  to  add 
several remarks in my national capacity.
Allow  me  to  commend  the  Presidents  of  the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
(ICTY)  and  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda  (ICTR),  Judges  Meron  and  Joensen,  on  their 
work and their continued efforts to ensure accountability 
and promote international criminal justice. As always, 
they can count on Croatia’s continued and unwavering 
support.  Croatia  stresses 
the 
completion of the remaining ICTY trials in the cases of 
Karadžić, Mladić, Šešelj and Hadžić, and we encourage 
the Tribunal to maximize its efforts in that regard.
importance  of 
the 
Together,  the  ICTY  and  the  ICTR  represent  a 
breakthrough  in  the  development  of  international 
criminal  law,  in  improving  international  criminal 
procedure  and  in  narrowing  the  impunity  gap.  The 
voices  of  the  victims  are  being  heard,  and  historical 
records  established.  That  in  itself  is  not  a  small 
achievement. The two Tribunals have set high standards 
of  responsibility  for  war  crimes,  crimes  against 
humanity and genocide. And, equally important, they 
have paved the way for the creation of the International 
Criminal Court, which Croatia strongly supports.
Allow me to make a brief comment on the subject of 
Vojislav Šešelj, who is notorious for his war-mongering 
and  was  indicted  by  the  ICTY  for  war  crimes  and 
crimes  against  humanity.  He  was  provisionally 
released for humanitarian reasons, as provided by the 
Rules  of  Procedure  and  Evidence.  Upon  his  return 
to  Serbia,  Šešelj  continued  with  his  inflammatory 
speeches and provocations. The fact that this indicted 
war  criminal  recently  appeared  in  a  television  reality 
show is something that defies any legal logic and moral 
comprehension.  As  we  said  in  the  Security  Council 
debate — and I will repeat it again today — it is utterly 
unacceptable and insulting.
Croatia  believes  that  international  and  regional 
cooperation  in  criminal  matters,  when  pursued  in 
accordance  with  the  basic  principles  and  rules  of 
international law, including international criminal law, 
represents a sound basis for the successful investigation, 
prosecution and punishment of the perpetrators of core 
international crimes.
tool 
for  ending 
As  regards  universal  jurisdiction,  a  powerful 
subsidiary 
impunity,  a  State 
implementing  universal  jurisdiction  needs,  first  and 
foremost,  to  observe  its  universal  character.  At  the 
same time, a State implementing universal jurisdiction 
should also fully respect the principle of subsidiarity and 
implement it in good faith, in a reasonable, predictable 
and  responsible  manner  and  in  accordance  with  all 
the applicable rules and fundamental principles of the 
various  fields  of  international  law  and  international 
comity.
15-30992
17/20
A/70/PV.31 
13/10/2015
legislation  — 
the  Law  on 
legislation  universal 
in  War  Crimes  Proceedings  — 
In  that  regard,  we  encourage  Serbia  to  introduce 
in 
its 
jurisdiction  for  core 
international  crimes  in  its  proper  form  and  to  follow 
the  aforementioned  principles  for  its  implementation. 
Serbia’s  current 
the 
Organization  and  Competences  of  Government 
Authorities 
is, 
unfortunately, neither universal, since it applies only to 
a specifically defined number of neighbouring States, 
nor subsidiary, since it applies irrespective of the basic 
principles for the application of universal jurisdiction. 
Serbia’s  legally  flawed  precedent  —  no  other  State 
has ever extended or attempted to extend its criminal 
jurisdiction in such a manner to only a limited number 
of  its  neighbours  —  hampers  not  only  the  desired 
regional  cooperation  but,  ultimately,  also  its  main 
purpose, namely, the effective fight against impunity.
A genuine commitment to ending impunity for the 
most  serious  violations  of  international  humanitarian 
law can take various forms — in this case, for example, 
by  applying  the  principle  of  active  personality,  since 
most  of  those  accused  of  such  crimes  are  Serbian 
nationals.  Far  less  often,  in  those  cases  involving 
nationals  of  Serbia’s  neighbouring  countries, 
the 
proper  application  of  the  existing  mutual  assistance 
mechanisms between States in criminal matters — and 
in particular bilateral agreements and acts in force, as 
well as international comity — is more than sufficient.
As has already been stated in previous debates on 
this  pivotal  matter,  the  important  legacy  of  the  ICTY 
is not entirely without flaws. Nevertheless, that should 
in  no  way  tarnish  the  Tribunal’s  historical  record  but 
should rather serve as an important lesson to be learned 
for  the  benefit  of  international  criminal  justice  in  the 
future.
In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  reiterate  Croatia’s 
indisputable support for the work of the Tribunals. The 
work of the ICTY is not over yet. Some of the indictees 
most responsible for war crimes are still waiting for a 
verdict to be brought down in their cases. It has been 
said many times that justice delayed is justice denied. A 
speedy trial resulting in a court decision, a conviction 
or  an  acquittal,  represents  not  only  one  of  the  most 
essential  rights  of  the  accused,  but  is  also  an  equally 
essential  right  of  the  victims.  So  we  hope  that  the 
verdicts and justice still pending and long overdue will 
be served soon.
Mr.  Musikhin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  I  would  like  to  thank  the  leadership  of  the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
(ICTY)  and  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda (ICTR) for the annual reports on their activities 
(see  A/70/226  and  A/70/218,  respectively)  submitted 
to the General Assembly and also for the third report 
of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals (see A/70/225).
We  acknowledge  the  information  provided  by 
the  leadership  of  the  Tribunals  and  the  Residual 
Mechanism  on  the  progress  of  proceedings,  the  rates 
of  their  completion  processes,  and  their  conversion 
into  the  Mechanism.  We  are  paying  close  attention 
to  that  information,  given  that,  as  is  well  known, 
neither  Tribunal  has  been  able  to  complete  its  work 
in  accordance  with  the  timelines  set  out  in  Security 
Council resolution 1966 (2010). In the light of that fact, 
we welcome the confirmation that the Rwanda Tribunal, 
although its closure has been delayed, will close by the 
end of this year.
At the ICTY the situation remains more complex. 
Having analysed the report, we have become even more 
convinced that that Tribunal has the potential to further 
reduce  the  duration  of  its  proceedings.  However,  in 
spite of the urgent appeals to the Tribunal to redouble 
efforts in that area, in Security Council resolution 2193 
(2014),  the  expected  reduction  has  not  occurred.  That 
state of affairs is unacceptable. 
Staffing problems, to which we again see references 
in the ICTY report, are hardly adequate to explain the 
situation. Indeed, there is an objective need to replace 
workers with new staff members, but we believe that it 
is quite possible to arrange the transfer of cases without 
causing  harm  to  the  quality  and  speed  of  the  work. 
Other reasons for new delays, which are referred to in 
the report, are also difficult to call force majeure.
We  would  like  to  comment  separately  on  the 
situation  of  the  accused  individuals  who  have  serious 
health  issues.  The  Trial  Chambers  and  the  Office  of 
the  Prosecutor  of  the  ICTY  could  think  about  how 
necessary and realistic it is to continue such trials. In that 
connection  they  could  take  the  appropriate  decisions, 
bearing in mind humanitarian considerations. We hope 
that, in the near future, the leadership of the ICTY will 
be able to correct the situation and avoid new delays, 
as well as reduce the projected time periods needed to 
wrap up the trials. The progress achieved on that issue 
still  needs  to  be  considered  in  the  coming  months  by 
the Security Council.
18/20 
15-30992
13/10/2015 
A/70/PV.31
We  are  still  cautiously  optimistic  concerning  the 
work of the Residual Mechanism. During the reporting 
period,  its  first  ruling  was  handed  down,  and  there 
has  been  progress  in  performing  other  functions 
not  completed  by  the  Tribunals.  We  expect  that  the 
Mechanism  will  show  maximum  efficiency  in  its 
activities,  given  the  temporary  nature  of  its  mandate 
established by Security Council resolution 1966 (2010).
In  that  context,  the  review  of  the  Mechanism’s 
activities over its first four years — which the Security 
Council  is  to  complete  by  1  July  2016,  in  accordance 
with  paragraph  17  of  its  resolution  1966  (2010)  —  is 
of  great  importance.  There  will  be  a  serious  analysis 
of the situation in the Mechanism, in connection with 
which  the  review  should  be  conducted  in  conformity 
with the directives of the resolution and the objectives 
set out therein.
Mr. Sana (Rwanda): I too thank Judge Meron and 
Judge Joensen for their presentations. At the outset let 
me acknowledge the important progress made by both 
Tribunals towards their completion and transition to the 
Mechanism.
As the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda 
(ICTR) is winding down, we express our belief that it 
plays an important role in the fight against impunity for 
mass atrocities, but that it also produced a substantial 
body  of  jurisprudence,  including  a  definition  of  the 
crime  of  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  and 
war  crimes,  as  well  as  support  responsibility.  Most 
importantly, the Tribunal established that the genocide 
that  occurred  in  Rwanda  was  committed  against  the 
Tutsi  as  a  group  and  also  ruled  that  acts  of  rape  and 
sexual  violence  constituted  a  crime  of  genocide  if 
committed  with  the  intent  of  destroying  the  targeted 
group.
Despite the progress made, much more still needs 
to be done. As we look forward to the conclusion of the 
Butare cases by the Appellate Chambers, which were 
delayed unnecessarily, we note that the 93 individuals 
indicted  for  genocide  were  mainly  the  masterminds 
of those crimes, as well as national and local leaders, 
who were out of reach of Rwandan justice as they were 
international  fugitives.  We  regret,  however,  that  nine 
fugitives, among them the well-known Félicien Kabuga, 
are still at large, and we reiterate our call to Member 
States, especially those in our region, to collaborate in 
ensuring the arrest of all remaining genocide fugitives, 
as per Security Council resolution 2150 (2014).
Regarding the monitoring of the four cases referred 
to national courts, we regret that the report under review, 
as  well  as  the  oral  presentations  made  today,  do  not 
provide enough details on the state of those cases. While 
the procedures in the two cases referred to Rwanda in 
2012 and 2013 are well advanced and on the right track, 
we are extremely concerned at the delays encountered 
in the investigation into the two cases referred to France 
in 2007. We especially regret and express our deepest 
disappointment  at  the  announcement  of  the  dismissal 
on  2  October  this  year  of  the  case  against  Wenceslas 
Munyeshyaka.  The  diligence  with  which  Germany, 
on  the  other  hand,  has  tried  the  case  of  the  Rwandan 
leaders of the genocidal militia, Forces démocratiques 
de libération du Rwanda, is exemplary.
On many occasions Rwanda has expressed its view 
that  the  ICTR  archives,  although  the  property  of  the 
United Nations, should be transferred to Rwanda upon 
completion  of  the  Residual  Mechanism’s  mandate. 
Indeed, the ICTR records constitute an integral part of 
Rwandan  history  and  are  vital  to  the  preservation  of 
the memory of the genocide. They will play a critical 
role  in  preserving  current  and  future  generations 
from  genocide,  denial  and  revisionism.  We  hope  that 
all  stakeholders  will  understand  our  request  and  act 
accordingly.
I  should  like  to  conclude  by  again  thanking  the 
ICTR and ICTY for their efforts to ensure justice and 
accountability  for  the  most  serious  crimes.  We  hope 
that  the  Residual  Mechanism  will,  with  the  support 
of  the  international  community,  be  able  to  arrest  the 
remaining fugitives and bring them to justice.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on the agenda items before us.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  take  note  of  the  twentieth  annual  report  of  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Prosecution 
of  Persons  Responsible  for  Genocide  and  Other 
Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law 
Committed  in  the  Territory  of  Rwanda  and  Rwandan 
Citizens  Responsible  for  Genocide  and  Other  Such 
Violations Committed in the Territory of Neighbouring 
States between 1 January and 31 December 1994 (see 
A/70/218)?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: May I also take it that it is 
the  wish  of  the  Assembly  to  take  note  of  the  twenty-
15-30992
19/20
A/70/PV.31 
13/10/2015
second annual report of the International Tribunal for 
the  Prosecution  of  Persons  Responsible  for  Serious 
Violations  of 
International  Humanitarian  Law 
Committed  in  the  Territory  of  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
since 1991 (see A/70/226)?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the Assembly to take note of the third annual 
report  of  the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for 
Criminal Tribunals (see A/70/225)?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  As  this  stage  of  the  work 
comes  to  a  close,  I  should  like  to  express  my  sincere 
gratitude to Judge Vagn Joensen for his service in the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda,  and  to 
Judge Theodor Meron for his service in the International 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda items 
76, 77 and 128?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m.
20/20 
15-30992
