United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
13th plenary meeting
Monday, 28 September 2015, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.13
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Agenda item 109
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/70/1)
The  President:  In  accordance  with  the  decision 
taken at its 2nd plenary meeting, on 18 September 2015, 
the General Assembly will hear a presentation by the 
Secretary-General of his annual report on the work of 
the Organization (A/70/1), under agenda item 109.
I give the floor to the Secretary-General.
The  Secretary-General:  The  seventieth  session 
of  the  General  Assembly  has  opened  with  a  towering 
achievement:  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1),  including 
17 inspiring Sustainable Development Goals. Our aim 
is clear. Our mission is possible. And our destination is 
in our sights — an end to extreme poverty by 2030, a 
life of peace and dignity for all.
What  counts  now  is  translating  the  promises 
on  paper  into  change  on  the  ground.  We  owe  this 
and  much  more  to  the  vulnerable,  the  oppressed, 
the  displaced  and  the  forgotten  people  in  our  world. 
We  owe  this  to  a  world  where  inequality  is  growing, 
trust  is  fading  and  impatience  with  leadership  can 
be  seen  and  felt  far  and  wide.  We  owe  this  to,  in  the 
memorable words of the Charter of the United Nations, 
“succeeding  generations”.  In  this  year  in  which  we 
mark the seventieth anniversary of the United Nations, 
we must heed the call of the Charter and hear the voices 
of “We the peoples”. That is how we can overcome the 
grim realities of the present and seize the remarkable 
opportunities of our era.
(spoke in French)
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  enabled 
hundreds of millions of people to leave poverty behind. 
Now we are poised to continue the job while reaching 
higher, broader and deeper. The new framework does 
not  just  add  goals.  It  weaves  the  Goals  together,  with 
human rights, the rule of law and women’s empowerment 
as  crucial  parts  of  an  integrated  whole.  The  global 
Goals are universal. Here in the Assembly, the world’s 
leaders have committed to leave no one behind and to 
first  reach  those  farthest  behind.  The  momentum  can 
help us conclude a robust agreement on climate change 
in  December  in  Paris.  Remarkable  changes  are  under 
way  to  reduce  harmful  greenhouse  gas  emissions.  I 
have seen vast solar-power installations bringing a new 
energy future into being. There is wind in the sails of 
climate action.
Yet it is clear that the national goals submitted by 
the Member States will not be enough. We face a choice: 
either raise our ambitions or risk raising temperatures 
above the 2°C threshold, which science tells us we must 
not cross. Reaching the Sustainable Development Goals 
means organizing ourselves better. Let there be no more 
walls or boxes; no more ministries or agencies working 
at cross-purposes. Let us move from silos to synergy, 
supported by data, long-term planning and a will to do 
things differently.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29265 (E)
*1529265*
A/70/PV.13 
(spoke in English)
Financing will be a key test. I welcome the Addis 
Ababa  Action  Agenda  and  the  renewed  pledge  by 
developed  countries  to  invest  0.7  per  cent  of  gross 
national income in official development assistance. Aid 
works, but few countries have met that target. I salute 
those that have and urge others to follow their example. 
Climate  finance  will  be  crucial.  I  urge  developed 
countries  to  meet  the  agreed  goal  of  $100  billion  per 
year  by  2020.  We  must  also  get  the  Green  Climate 
Fund up and running. The world continues to squander 
trillions in wasteful military spending. Why is it easier 
to find the money to destroy people and the planet than 
it is to protect them? Succeeding generations depend on 
us to finally get our priorities right.
Suffering today is at heights not seen in a generation; 
100  million  people  require  immediate  humanitarian 
assistance. At least 60 million people have been forced 
to  flee  their  homes  or  their  countries.  The  United 
Nations  has  asked  for  nearly  $20  billion  to  meet  this 
year’s  needs  —  six  times  the  level  of  a  decade  ago. 
United Nations humanitarian agencies and our partners 
are braving difficult conditions to reach people. Member 
States  have  been  generous,  but  demands  continue  to 
dwarf funding. The World Humanitarian Summit, to be 
held in May 2016 in Istanbul, will be a critical moment 
to reaffirm solidarity and explore how to better build 
resilience and address emergencies.
But the global humanitarian system is not broken; 
it is broke. We are not receiving enough money to save 
enough lives. We have about half of what we need to 
help the people of Iraq, South Sudan and Yemen, and 
just  a  third  for  Syria.  Our  response  plan  for  Ukraine 
is just 39 per cent funded. And the appeal for Gambia, 
where one in four children suffers from stunting, has 
been met with silence. Numbers this low raise suffering 
to  new  highs.  People  need  emergency  assistance,  but 
what  they  want  even  more  is  lasting  solutions.  They 
may appreciate a tent, but they deserve to go home.
Our aim is not just to keep people alive, but to give 
them a life, a decent life. Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey 
are  generously  hosting  several  million  Syrian  and 
Iraqi  refugees.  Countries  across  the  developing  world 
continue to host and receive large numbers of refugees 
despite their own limited means. People are on the move 
as  never  before  —  in  the  Americas  and  the  Sahel,  in 
the Mediterranean and the Andaman Sea. These flows 
raise complex issues and rouse strong passions. Certain 
28/09/2015
touchstones must guide our response: international law, 
human rights, basic compassion.
All  countries  need  to  do  more  to  shoulder  their 
responsibilities.  I  commend  those  in  Europe  that  are 
upholding the European Union’s values and providing 
asylum.  At  the  same  time,  I  urge  Europe  to  do  more. 
After the Second World War, it was Europeans seeking 
the world’s assistance.
On  30  September,  I  will  convene  a  high-level 
meeting, aimed at promoting a comprehensive approach 
to  the  refugee  and  migration  crisis.  We  must  crack 
down  on  traffickers  and  address  the  pressures  being 
faced  by  countries  of  destination.  We  must  combat 
discrimination. In the twenty-first century, we should 
not be building fences or walls. But above all, we must 
look at root causes in countries of origin.
Syrians are leaving their country and their homes 
because  of  oppression,  extremism,  destruction  and 
fear. Four years of diplomatic paralysis by the Security 
Council and others have allowed the crisis to spin out 
of  control.  The  responsibility  for  ending  the  conflict 
lies first and foremost with the Syrian warring parties. 
They are the ones turning their country into ruins. But 
it is not enough to look only within Syria for a solution, 
The battle is also being driven by regional powers and 
rivalries. Weapons and money flowing into the country 
are fuelling the fire.
My  Special  Envoy  is  doing  everything  he  can  to 
forge  the  basis  for  a  peaceful  settlement.  It  is  time 
now  for  others,  primarily  the  Security  Council  and 
key  regional  actors,  to  step  forward.  Five  countries 
in particular hold the key: the Russian Federation, the 
United  States,  Saudi  Arabia,  Iran  and  Turkey.  But  as 
long  as  one  side  will  not  compromise  with  the  other, 
it  is  futile  to  expect  change  on  the  ground.  Innocent 
Syrians  pay  the  price  of  more  barrel  bombs  and 
terrorism.  There  must  be  no  impunity  for  atrocious 
crimes.  Our  commitment  to  justice  should  lead  us  to 
refer the situation to the International Criminal Court.
In Yemen, 21 million people — 80 per cent of the 
population — need humanitarian assistance. All sides 
are showing disregard for human life, but most of the 
casualties are being caused by air strikes. I call for an 
end to the bombings, which are also destroying Yemeni 
cities, infrastructure and heritage. Here, too, the proxy 
battles of others are driving the fighting. I once again 
urge the parties to return to the table, negotiate in good 
faith and resolve the crisis through dialogue facilitated 
2/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
by  my  Special  Envoy.  Let  me  be  clear:  there  is  no 
military solution to this conflict.
We  must  also  guard  against  the  dangerous  drift 
in  the  Middle  East  peace  process.  With  settlements 
expanding and incitement and provocations on the rise, 
it is essential for Israelis and Palestinians to re-engage 
and  for  the  international  community  to  pressure  the 
parties  to  do  so.  The  world  can  no  longer  wait  for 
leaders to finally choose a path to peace.
Daesh, Boko Haram and Al-Shabaab remain major 
threats,  especially  to  the  women  and  girls  who  have 
been  systematically  targeted.  The  world  must  unite 
against the blatant brutality of these groups. We must 
also counter the exclusion and hopelessness on which 
extremists  feed.  Moreover,  States  must  never  violate 
human  rights  in  the  fight  against  terror;  such  abuses 
only perpetuate the cycle. Early next year, I will present 
to  the  General  Assembly  a  plan  of  action  on  how  to 
counter violent extremism and terrorism.
the 
I  commend 
landmark  nuclear  agreement 
between  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  the  P5+1 
countries.  Dialogue  and  patient  diplomacy  have  paid 
dividends.  I  hope  this  spirit  of  solidarity  among  the 
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  can  be 
demonstrated  in  other  conflict  areas,  such  as  Syria, 
Yemen  and  Ukraine.  Let  us  build  on  the  recent 
agreements in South Sudan and finalize the agreement 
in Libya, and spare those countries further suffering.
Now  is  the  time  for  renewed  dialogue  to  address 
continuing  tension  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  I  call 
on  the  parties  to  refrain  from  taking  any  action  that 
may  increase  mistrust,  and  I  urge  them  to  instead 
promote reconciliation and efforts towards a peaceful, 
denuclearized  peninsula.  I  am  ready 
to  support 
inter-Korean cooperation. We also need to step up our 
work for the well-being of the people of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea.
I  am  deeply  troubled  by  growing  restrictions  on 
media freedoms and civil society across the world. It is 
not a crime for journalists, human rights defenders and 
others to exercise their basic rights. We must preserve 
the space for civil society and the press to do their vital 
work, without fear of attack and imprisonment.
Democratic  backsliding  is  a  threat  in  too  many 
places,  as  leaders  seek  to  stay  in  office  beyond  their 
mandated  limits.  We  see  rallies  and  petitions  being 
engineered  to  look  like  the  spontaneous  will  of  the 
people.  Those  manufactured  groundswells  of  support 
only lay the groundwork for instability. I urge leaders 
to abide by the constitutional limits on their terms.
(spoke in French)
Collectively,  these  crises  have  stretched  to  the 
limits  the  vital  tools  available  to  us  for  conflict 
resolution  and  for  humanitarian  response.  Earlier  this 
month,  I  put  forward  my  vision  for  strengthening 
United  Nations  peace  operations  (A/70/357),  building 
on the recommendations of an independent panel. Our 
peacekeeping  operations  and  political  missions  need 
enhanced capabilities and clear political objectives. We 
need  a  renewed  commitment  to  prevention,  stronger 
regional  partnerships  and  sustained  engagement  on 
peacebuilding.  And  we  must  unlock  the  potential  of 
women  to  advance  peace,  as  envisaged  in  Security 
Council  resolution  1325  (2000).  I  hope  the  General 
Assembly  will  act  promptly,  as  a  signal  of  its  strong 
commitment 
today,  and 
succeeding  generations,  need  us  to  make  the  most  of 
this opportunity for comprehensive progress.
(spoke in English)
this  effort.  People 
to 
Founded in a fractured world, the United Nations 
brought hope that collective action could avoid another 
global  catastrophe.  Over  the  past  70  years,  we  have 
helped to liberate millions of people from colonialism 
and supported the successful struggle against apartheid. 
We  have  defeated  deadly  diseases,  defended  human 
rights and deepened the rule of law.
This  and  more  we  have  done,  but  that  is  far 
from  enough.  We  are  living  through  a  time  of  severe 
testing,  but  also  one  of  great  opportunity.  Today,  we 
are  more  connected  than  ever,  better  informed  than 
ever  and  have  better  tools  than  ever.  The  recipes  for 
positive  change  are  on  the  table;  the  ingredients  for 
success  are  in  our  hands.  We  continue  to  reform  the 
United  Nations,  although  we  know  we  must  do  much 
more, both managerially and politically. We can draw 
strength from the empowerment of women, but we still 
need  to  step  it  up  for  gender  equality  on  the  way  to 
Planet 50-50.
I  am  inspired  by  the  world’s  young  people,  who 
make up half the world’s population and whose voices 
we  must  integrate  more  fully  in  decision-making 
everywhere. I am impressed with the way all of us can 
unite behind vital causes, like the 2030 Agenda.
One  year  ago,  when  we  gathered  for  the  general 
debate,  the  Ebola  crisis  in  West  Africa  was  claiming 
15-29265
3/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
lives  daily.  Families  were  being  devastated.  Fear 
was  rife.  Forecasts  suggested  frightening  losses  in 
the  months  ahead.  Today,  thanks  to  collective  action 
by  communities  and  their  Governments  and  others 
all  around  the  world,  cases  of  Ebola  have  declined 
dramatically.  The  outbreak  is  not  over,  and  we  must 
remain  vigilant.  But  the  response  is  working,  with 
lessons pointing to a safer future for all.
When we stand together, there is no limit to what 
we  can  achieve.  Three  days  ago,  young  people  from 
many nations stood together in the balcony of this Hall. 
They  asked  for  one  thing  above  all:  change.  There  is 
nothing  we  can  say  to  the  world’s  children  that  can 
convince them the world needs to be the way it is. That 
means we must do everything we can to close the gap 
between the world as it is and the world as it should be. 
That is the mission of the United Nations.
Let us work together to make this world better for 
all, where everybody can live with human dignity and 
prosperity. I thank those present for their leadership.
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for 
his statement.
Agenda item 8
General debate
The President: I shall now deliver a statement in 
my capacity as President of the General Assembly at its 
seventieth session.
On  Friday,  the  Heads  of  States  and  Governments 
approved the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution  70/1),  a  genuinely  transformative  decision 
epic in its analysis and revolutionary in its ambition, a 
decision that once again proved the universal relevance 
and value of the United Nations. Now, we face the even 
more  daunting  task  of  transforming  our  vision  into 
action.
Our  ambition  will  be  realized  only  in  a  world  of 
peace  and  security  and  respect  for  human  rights,  not 
in  a  world  where  investment  in  armament  and  wars 
increasingly absorbs and destroys a huge share of the 
resources  we  have  committed  to  invest  in  sustainable 
development. It will not be realized in a world where 
war,  poverty,  hunger,  deep  inequalities  and  poor 
governance  are  drivers  of  ever-growing  waves  of 
refugees and uncontrolled human migration, and where 
all  these  elements  count  heavily  among  the  causes  of 
conflicts, which in turn affect and uproot many more 
people.
Governments  will  also  succeed  in  implementing 
this great agenda only with the continued and expanding 
participation  of  all  stakeholders  —  parliamentarians, 
leaders of regions, cities and local communities, civil 
society, youth, religious communities and trade unions, 
business and academia worldwide. And the great goals 
of  the  United  Nations  will  be  fulfilled  only  when  we 
realize that global interdependency is more pronounced 
than ever before. So, too, is the urgency for joint global 
action.
With the Millennium Development Goals, we have 
over the past 15 years cut the number of extremely poor 
people by half. With the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs),  however,  we  acknowledge  that  eradicating 
poverty  in  all  its  forms  is  possible  only  with  a  much 
more  complex  transformation  of  the  entire  global 
economy, the environment and social structures.
to  resources  and 
We realize that we cannot rely only on the traditional 
growth model of the past 15 — or the past 70 — years. 
Incredible  and  unsustainable  inequality  in  income, 
wealth  and  access 
to  quality 
education  and  health  services  must  be  overcome.  We 
underline  more  vigorously  than  ever  that  equal  rights 
and  opportunities  for  girls  and  women  are  crucial 
preconditions for a sustainable future everywhere. We 
recognize that each and every person has a legitimate 
demand for a decent life. But as the number of people 
on  our  planet  has  tripled  since  I  was  born  nearly 
70  years  ago,  we  must  meet  this  demand  without 
further depleting the natural resources that we pass on 
to new generations. We acknowledge also that people 
in developed countries cannot continue to consume and 
produce in the manner they are used to and that billions 
of  hardworking  people  elsewhere  on  their  road  to 
prosperity should not simply adopt the same behaviour 
as that of today’s rich countries.
To build a sustainable global infrastructure over the 
next 15 years, trillions of dollars need to be to invested. 
The least developed countries can do this only when rich 
countries  live  up  to  their  long-standing  commitments 
of a minimum of 0.7 per cent of their national income 
in  development  assistance.  National  Governments 
can  fund  their  share  of  the  investment  required  only 
by fighting corruption and building efficient State tax 
systems.  A  much  stronger  international  cooperation 
must  ensure  that  rich  companies  and  rich  individuals 
4/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
pay  taxes  where  they  earn  their  money  and  are  no 
longer able to evade payment in tax havens.
First  of  all,  therefore,  we  need  to  rebuild  confidence 
and scale back these risks.
Finally,  we  must  realize  that  a  huge  share  of  the 
investment in a better future must come from private 
sources,  such  as  companies,  capital  investors  and 
pension funds. Therefore, it is crucial that Governments 
create  a  framework  for  markets  that  makes  green 
investment  the  obvious,  safer  and  better  investment, 
not only for humankind and the longer perspective, but 
for business now.
It is due time for far-reaching decisions to bring an 
end to devastating conflicts and to start investing big in 
sustainable development. Action is needed now. If we 
fail, we run the overwhelming risk of unmanageable and 
inescapable damage to the political, social, ecological 
and climate balance of our planet. If we fail, the SDGs 
will  never  be  reached,  because  the  resources  needed 
will be swallowed up in addressing crises and conflicts.
If we fail to stop climate change, the consequences 
will  be  catastrophic.  Further  hundreds  of  millions 
of  people  will  be  forced  away  from  their  habitats. 
Historically,  migration  has  brought  huge  benefits  to 
the  global  community.  But  large-scale,  uncontrolled 
migrations  have  the  potential  to  destabilize  societies, 
leading to conflicts far more damaging than those we 
are not able to deal with in an orderly and humanitarian 
fashion today.
We live in paradoxical and transformational times. 
Never  before  has  such  a  large  share  of  humankind 
enjoyed so good a life, yet never before have we been 
at  greater  risk  of  fundamentally  disrupting  the  basic 
living  conditions  on  our  small  globe.  And  while  a 
larger part of humankind lives in peace and has done 
so  for  longer  periods  than  earlier  in  human  history, 
the  follies  of  war  and  self-destruction  have  increased 
in the Middle East, in parts of Africa and once again 
in  Europe,  creating  unfathomable  humanitarian 
catastrophes and more refugees than at any time since 
the  end  of  the  Second  World  War.  Tensions  between 
major powers are increasing, as are investments in all 
kinds of armaments. Vast arsenals of nuclear, chemical 
and  biological  weapons  still  exist,  and  disarmament 
negotiations in Geneva have been stalled for years.
Four weeks ago, I visited Hiroshima and was once 
again confronted with the horrors of nuclear war. We 
must remember that at this very moment all too many 
nuclear  warheads  are  still  on  high  alert,  and  we  have 
not eliminated the risks of nuclear conflicts by mistake. 
We  must  —  here  in  the  United  Nations,  here  in 
this very Hall — make an extraordinary effort to break 
all the vicious cycles. We must act in accordance with 
the agreed understanding behind the 2030 Agenda by 
recognizing the strong linkages between development, 
peace and security, and respect for human rights, and 
we  must  take  specific  actions  to  make  progress  in 
each  of  these  areas.  This  will  be  the  central  focus  of 
the seventieth session of the General Assembly and my 
presidency. I will offer my strong support to new ideas 
on how to strengthen global peace and security, from 
the  role  of  women  to  conflict  prevention,  mediation 
and settlement; from United Nations peace operations 
to the overall peacebuilding architecture and Security 
Council reform.
It  is  my  sincere  hope  that  the  United  Nations 
will  develop  a  more  direct  role  in  reconciliation  and 
peacebuilding,  including  in  conflicts  where  we  have 
failed until now, and that we will move forward in our 
common  efforts  to  prevent  vicious  radicalization  and 
fight the evil of terrorism.
With  parties  living  up  to  their  promises,  the 
nuclear agreement between Iran and the five permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council,  Germany  and  the 
European Union can be a very important contribution 
to avoiding nuclear proliferation.
Impatiently  we  await  the  day  when  major  and 
regional  Powers  also  join  forces  to  stop  the  senseless 
and horrifying bloodshed in and around Syria and, in 
doing so, address the root causes of the refugee crisis. 
I  am  sure  we  all  wish  that  this  day  would  come  very 
soon and want to contribute the most we can to such an 
outcome.
I am sure that Member States, building on our great 
2030 Agenda, will increase their efforts to make human 
rights  a  reality  for  all  people  without  discrimination, 
from fundamental rights, such as safe access to food, 
clean  water,  quality  health  and  education  services 
and decent work, to civil and political rights, such as 
freedom of expression and association; from the rights 
of migrants and indigenous peoples to those of women, 
children  and  persons  with  disabilities.  We  must  also 
advance efforts to strengthen good governance and the 
rule of law.
As President of the General Assembly, I will support 
Member States in their ambitions for revitalization and 
15-29265
5/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
reform, including a new, more transparent process for 
the selection of the next Secretary-General.
This seventieth anniversary of the United Nations 
must be a defining year to confirm and invigorate the 
universal  values  that  we  the  peoples  agreed  upon  in 
the  Charter.  No  one  shall  be  left  behind,  because,  as 
the Norwegian author Nordahl Grieg wrote: “Noble is 
mankind, the earth is rich. If there is need and hunger, 
it is by deceit.”
Before giving the floor to the first speaker for this 
morning, I would like to remind members that the list 
of speakers for the general debate has been established 
on the agreed basis that statements should be no longer 
than 15 minutes to enable all the speakers to be heard 
at a given meeting. Within this time frame, I would like 
to  appeal  to  speakers  to  deliver  their  statements  at  a 
reasonable pace so that interpretation in the six official 
United Nations languages may be provided properly.
I would like also to draw attention to the decision 
taken  by  the  General  Assembly  at  previous  sessions, 
namely that the practice of expressing congratulations 
inside the General Assembly Hall after a speech has been 
delivered  is  strongly  discouraged.  In  that  connection, 
after delivering their statements, speakers are invited to 
exit the Hall through room GA-200, located behind the 
rostrum, before returning to their seats.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  agrees 
to  proceed  in  the  manner  outlined  during  the  general 
debate of the seventieth session?
It was so decided.
The  President:  Finally,  I  should  like  to  draw  the 
attention of members to the fact that, during the general 
debate,  official  photos  of  all  the  speakers  are  taken 
by  the  Department  of  Public  Information.  Members 
interested  in  obtaining  those  photos  are  requested  to 
contact the Photo Library of the United Nations.
Address by Ms. Dilma Rousseff, President of the 
Federative Republic of Brazil
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Federative Republic of 
Brazil.
Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
Her  Excellency  Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the 
Federative  Republic  of  Brazil,  and  to  invite  her  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Rousseff 
in  Portuguese; 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  a 
privilege to address the General Assembly this year as 
the United Nations celebrates its seventieth birthday.
(spoke 
My 
first 
remarks  are 
to  congratulate  you, 
Mr.  President,  on  having  been  chosen  to  preside  over 
the Assembly. I reiterate, in particular, Brazil’s support 
for your willingness to put in place measures that will 
ultimately  strengthen  the  Organization’s  development 
agenda.
the 
that  occasion, 
Seventy years have passed since the San Francisco 
Conference.  On 
international 
community  sought  to  build  a  world  founded  on 
international  law  and  on  the  pursuit  of  the  peaceful 
resolution of conflicts. Since then, we have seen progress 
and setbacks. The decolonization process has evolved 
remarkably, as can be seen from the composition of the 
Assembly.
The  United  Nations  has  since  expanded 
its 
initiatives  and  incorporated  into  the  development 
agenda the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution  70/1)  and  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs).  In  other  words,  it  is  addressing  issues 
related to the environment, poverty eradication, social 
and  economic  development  and  access  to  quality 
services,  while  issues  related  to  urban  life,  gender, 
women and children, and race have all gained priority 
on the agenda.
However, the Organization has not achieved the same 
success  in  addressing  collective  security  challenges, 
even though they were at the origin of the Organization 
and  at  the  centre  of  its  concerns.  The  proliferation  of 
regional  conflicts,  some  of  which  have  the  potential 
to  be  highly  destructive,  and  the  spread  of  terrorism, 
which  kills  men,  women  and  children,  destroys  our 
common  heritage  and  displaces  millions  of  people 
from their long-established communities, demonstrate 
all too well that the United Nations is currently being 
severely tested. One cannot be complacent in the face 
of  barbaric  acts  such  as  those  perpetrated  by  the  so- 
called  Islamic  State  and  other  associated  groups.  The 
situation today explains, to a large extent, the refugee 
crisis currently facing humankind.
6/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
A  substantial  proportion  of  the  men,  women  and 
children  who  desperately  brave  the  waters  of  the 
Mediterranean  and  wearily  make  their  way  along 
the  roads  of  Europe  come  from  the  Middle  East  and 
North Africa, from countries whose State institutions 
have  been  dismantled  by  military  actions  undertaken 
in contravention of international law, thereby opening 
space  for  the  proliferation  of  terrorism.  The  deep 
sense  of  indignation  caused  by  the  picture  of  a  dead 
Syrian boy on the beaches of Turkey and by the news 
of the 71 persons asphyxiated inside a truck in Austria 
should be translated into unmistakable acts of practical 
solidarity.
In  a  world  where  goods,  capital,  information 
and  ideas  flow  freely,  it  is  absurd  to  prevent  the  free 
flow of people. Brazil is a host country, a welcoming 
country, one that is made up of people from around the 
world.  We  have  received  Syrians,  Haitians,  men  and 
women, just as we have provided shelter for more than 
a century to millions of Europeans, Arabs and Asians. 
We are an open society. We welcome refugees. We are 
a multi-ethnic country, where differences coexist. We 
know all too well the importance of differences, which 
ultimately  make  us  stronger,  richer  and  more  diverse 
culturally, socially and economically.
The  disquieting  backdrop  I  have  just  described 
demands  that  we  reflect  on  the  future  of  the  United 
Nations and requires that we act resolutely and quickly. 
We need a United Nations that is capable of promoting 
lasting  international  peace  and  of  acting  swiftly 
and  effectively  during  crises,  regional  and  localized 
conflicts  and  in  response  to  any  crimes  against 
humanity.  We  can  no  longer  delay,  for  example,  the 
creation of a Palestinian State that coexists peacefully 
and harmoniously with Israel. Similarly, the expansion 
of  settlements  in  the  occupied  territories  cannot  be 
tolerated.
In  order  to  give  the  United  Nations  the  central 
role it is rightfully entitled to, a comprehensive reform 
of  its  structures  must  be  carried  out.  The  Security 
Council  must  be  expanded  in  its  permanent  and 
non-permanent member categories in order to become 
more  representative,  legitimate  and  effective.  Most 
Member  States  do  not  want  a  decision  on  this  matter 
to  be  postponed  forever.  We  hope  that  the  current 
session will enter into history as a turning point in the 
trajectory  of  the  United  Nations  and  that  it  will  yield 
concrete  results  in  the  long,  and  so  far  inconclusive, 
reform process of the Organization.
In  our  region  of  the  world  —  where  peace  and 
democracy reign — we welcome the re-establishment 
of  diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States  of  America,  which  puts  an  end  to  a  dispute 
stemming  back  to  the  Cold  War.  We  hope  that  this 
process will be completed with the end of the embargo 
currently  imposed  on  Cuba.  We  also  celebrate  the 
recent agreement reached with Iran, which will enable 
that  country  to  develop  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes and to restore the hope of peace to an entire 
region.  Together,  the  countries  of  Brazil,  Russia, 
India,  China  and  South  Africa  have  launched  a  new 
development bank, which will assist in expanding trade 
and investment and will also possibly help to achieve 
the Sustainable Development Goals.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1)  outlines  the  future  we  want.  The  17 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  reaffirm  the  basic 
tenet of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development,  that  is,  it  is  possible  to  grow,  include, 
preserve  and  protect.  They  establish  universal  targets 
and stress the need for cooperation among people and a 
shared path for humankind. The 2030 Agenda requires 
global solidarity, determination from each one of us and 
a commitment to tackling climate change, overcoming 
extreme poverty and creating opportunities for all.
In  Paris,  next  December,  we  must  strengthen  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  by  ensuring  that  its  provisions  are  fulfilled 
and  its  principles  respected.  The  obligations  we  take 
on  in  Paris  should  be  ambitious  in  scope  and  nature 
and should include financial and technological support 
to  developing  countries  and  small  island  States,  in 
line  with  the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities.
Brazil  is  making  a  substantial  effort  to  reduce 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  without  jeopardizing  its 
development.  We  continue  to  diversify  the  renewable 
sources in our energy mix, which is among the cleanest 
in  the  world.  We  are  also  currently  investing  in  low-
carbon  agriculture.  We  have  reduced  deforestation 
in  the  Amazonian  region  by  82  per  cent.  A  sense  of 
ambition  will  continue  to  guide  our  actions.  In  this 
spirit,  I  announced  yesterday  at  the  United  Nations 
Brazil’s  intended  nationally  determined  contribution, 
which  is  to  reduce  its  greenhouse  gas  emissions  by 
43  per  cent  by  2030,  with  2005  as  the  baseline  year. 
During  this  period,  Brazil  intends  to  put  an  end  to 
illegal deforestation and to reforest 12 million hectares, 
15-29265
7/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
to recover 15 million hectares of degraded pasture lands 
and  to  integrate  5  million  hectares  of  crop,  livestock 
and forest.
In  a  world  where  the  share  of  renewable  energy 
accounts for only 13 per cent on average of the overall 
energy mix worldwide, we intend to derive 45 per cent 
of  our  domestic  energy  mix  from  renewable  sources. 
To that end, we will pursue a share of 66 per cent for 
hydropower in our electricity generation output and a 
share  of  23  per  cent  for  renewable  energy,  including 
from  wind,  solar  and  biomass  sources,  in  electrical 
energy  generation.  We  will  also  seek  an  increase 
of  about  10  per  cent  in  energy  efficiency  and  will 
add  a  share  of  16  per  cent  of  ethanol  fuel  and  other 
sugarcane-derived biomass sources to our energy mix. 
Brazil  is  thus  contributing  decisively  to  the  global 
efforts  to  implement  the  recommendations  of  the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which has 
established a limit of no more than 2°C on temperature 
increases for this century.
We are one of the few developing countries to set 
an  absolute  emissions  reduction  target.  Our  intended 
nationally determined contributions include actions to 
increase environmental resilience and reduce the risks 
associated with the negative effects of climate change 
for the poorest and most vulnerable populations, with 
an emphasis on gender issues, workers’ rights and the 
rights of indigenous, former black slave and traditional 
communities.
We  recognize  the  importance  of  South-South 
cooperation  in  the  global  efforts  to  counter  climate 
change. Allow me to stress that, since 2003, social and 
income transfer policies have helped lift over 36 million 
people  out  of  extreme  poverty.  Last  year,  Brazil  was 
officially  removed  from  the  World  Hunger  Map.  This 
is  a  testament  to  the  effectiveness  of  our  so-called 
zero-hunger policy, which has now evolved to become 
Sustainable Development Goal 2.
In  the  transition  to  a  low-carbon  economy,  it  is 
important  to  ensure  dignified  and  fair  conditions 
for  workers.  Sustainable  development  requires  us  to 
commit to the promotion of decent work, the generation 
of quality jobs and guaranteed opportunities for all.
Our  efforts  to  eradicate  poverty  and  promote 
development must be collective and global in scope. In 
my country, however, we know that the end of extreme 
poverty is only the beginning of a long journey marked 
by new gains. For six years, we have been working to 
prevent the impact of the world crisis that began in 2008 
in the developed world from overwhelming our economy 
and our society. During those six years, we have adopted 
a  comprehensive  set  of  measures,  including  reducing 
taxes, expanding credit, strengthening investment and 
stimulating household consumption. We have increased 
employment  opportunities  and  income  levels  in  that 
period. This effort has now come to an end owing to both 
domestic fiscal constraints and external conditions. The 
slow recovery of the world economy and the end of the 
”commodity super cycle” have negatively affected our 
economic growth. Currency devaluation and recession 
pressures  have  triggered  inflation  and  a  substantial 
reduction  in  tax  revenue,  leading  to  restrictions  in 
public finance.
Brazil  does  not  have  any  serious  structural 
problems,  however.  Our  problems  are  limited  to  the 
current circumstances. In order to address this situation, 
we  are  rebalancing  our  budget  and  have  substantially 
reduced  public  expenditures  and  even  investments. 
We  have  realigned  prices.  We  are  adopting  measures 
to  permanently  reduce  spending.  We  have  proposed 
drastic  spending  cuts  and  we  are  redefining  our 
sources of revenue. All of these initiatives are aimed at 
reorganizing the fiscal framework, reducing inflation, 
consolidating  macroeconomic 
stability,  boosting 
confidence in the economy and ensuring the resumption 
of economic growth with income distribution.
The  Brazilian  economy  is  today  stronger,  more 
solid and more resilient than it was a few years ago. We 
are  in  a  position  to  overcome  the  current  difficulties 
as  we  advance  on  our  path  towards  development.  We 
find  ourselves  at  a  moment  of  transition  to  another 
cycle of economic expansion, one that has greater depth 
and  is  more  solid  and  long-lasting.  In  addition  to  the 
fiscal and financial rebalancing actions and providing 
incentives for exports, we have also adopted measures 
to encourage investments in infrastructure and energy.
In  Brazil,  the  process  of  social  inclusion  has  not 
been interrupted. We hope that inflation control and the 
resumption of economic growth and credit availability 
will  help  to  further  expand  household  consumption. 
This is the basis for a new development cycle, led by 
an increase in productivity and the generation of more 
investment  opportunities  for  businesses  and  more  job 
opportunities for citizens.
The  gains  we  have  achieved  over  the  past  few 
years  have  been  reached  in  the  environment  of  our 
strengthened  and  deepened  democracy.  Thanks  to  an 
8/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
effective  legal  framework  and  vigorous  democratic 
institutions,  the  functioning  of  the  State  is  being 
firmly and impartially examined by the judiciary and 
the  governmental  agencies  in  charge  of  investigating, 
assessing and punishing any misconduct.
The Brazilian Government and society do not and 
will not tolerate corruption. Brazil’s democracy grows 
stronger  when  its  authorities  recognize  the  limits 
imposed by the law as their own limits. We Brazilians 
desire a country where the law represents the limit. Many 
of  us  fought  for  that,  precisely  when  laws  and  rights 
were  being  violated  during  the  military  dictatorship. 
We  desire  a  country  where  governmental  authorities 
conduct  themselves  strictly  according  to  their  duties, 
without  ever  succumbing  to  excess;  where  judges  try 
and  judge  cases  freely  and  impartially,  without  any 
pressure  whatsoever,  independent  of  political  passion 
and without ever compromising on the presumption of 
the innocence of any citizen.
We desire a country where the clash of ideas takes 
place  in  a  civilized  and  respectful  environment.  We 
want a country where the freedom of the press is one 
of the cornerstones of the freedom of speech and of the 
expression of different positions, namely, the rights of 
all Brazilians. Legal sanctions must be applied against 
all  those  who  have  committed  illicit  acts,  bearing  in 
mind the need to uphold the principle of due process. 
Those  are  the  very  foundations  of  our  democracy.  In 
that regard, I wish to avail myself of a recent quote by 
my  friend  José  Mujica,  former  President  of  Uruguay. 
He  said:  “Democracy  is  not  perfect,  for  we  are  not 
perfect. However, we must defend it in order to improve 
it and not deny it”. Allow me to state for the record that 
Brazil will continue on the path of democracy and will 
never relinquish the achievements for which we have so 
greatly struggled.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate 
that  Brazil  welcomes  citizens  from  around  the  world, 
with  open  arms,  for  the  2016  Summer  Olympic  and 
Paralympic Games to be held in Rio de Janeiro. We look 
forward to welcoming each and every one. It will be a 
unique opportunity to promote sport as a key instrument 
for  peace,  social  inclusion  and  tolerance  in  the  fight 
against  racial,  ethnic  and  gender  discrimination.  It 
will also be an opportunity to promote the rights and 
inclusion  of  persons  with  disabilities,  one  of  the  top 
priorities of my Government.
One last point is that a few days ago, here at United 
Nations  Headquarters,  the  murals  entitled  War  and 
Peace by the Brazilian artist Candido Portinari, which 
were donated to this Organization by the Government of 
my country in 1957, were re-inaugurated. Those works 
of art denounce violence and poverty and further urge 
the people of the world to seek mutual understanding 
and tolerance. They stand as a symbol of the ultimate 
responsibility of the United Nations, namely, to prevent 
armed  conflict  and  promote  peace,  social  justice  and 
the eradication of hunger and poverty. Portinari often 
stated  that  “there  is  no  great  work  of  art  that  is  not 
identified by the people surrounding it”. The message 
of the murals remains timely and topical. It speaks not 
only to the victims of wars, but also to the refugees who 
risk their lives on fragile boats in the Mediterranean and 
to all of the anonymous people who turn to the United 
Nations seeking protection, peace and well-being.
We hope that, as we walk into the premises of the 
United Nations and gaze upon those very murals at the 
entrance,  we  may  be  capable  of  hearing the  voices of 
the  people  we  represent  and  of  working  persistently 
to  ensure  that  their  calls  for  peace  and  progress  are 
met.  After  all,  those  were  the  very  ideals  that  were 
present  70  years  ago  at  the  foundation  of  the  United 
Nations  Organization,  this  major  accomplishment  of 
humankind.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Federative Republic 
of Brazil for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Barack Obama, President of the 
United States of America
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America.
Mr.  Barack  Obama,  President  of  the  United 
States  of  America,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United 
States  of  America,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President Obama: Seventy years after the founding 
of the United Nations it is worth reflecting on what the 
15-29265
9/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
members  of  this  body,  working  together,  have  helped 
to achieve. Out of the ashes of the Second World War, 
having witnessed the unthinkable power of the atomic 
age, the United States has worked with many nations in 
the Assembly to prevent a third world war — by forging 
alliances with old adversaries; by supporting the steady 
emergence of strong democracies accountable to their 
people and not to any foreign Power; and by building 
an  international  system  that  imposes  a  cost  on  those 
who  choose  conflict  over  cooperation,  an  order  that 
recognizes the dignity and equal worth of all people.
That has been the work of seven decades. That is the 
ideal that this body has, at its best, pursued. Of course, 
there  have  been  too  many  times  when,  collectively, 
we  have  fallen  short  of  those  ideals.  Over  the  seven 
decades, terrible conflicts have claimed untold victims. 
But we have pressed forward, slowly, steadily, to make 
a system of international rules and norms that are better 
and stronger and more consistent.
It is that international order that has underwritten 
unparalleled advances in human liberty and prosperity. 
It  is  that  collective  endeavour  that  has  brought  about 
diplomatic  cooperation  among 
the  world’s  major 
Powers and buttressed a global economy that has lifted 
more  than  a  billion  people  from  poverty.  It  is  those 
international  principles  that  have  helped  constrain 
bigger  countries  from  imposing  their  will  on  smaller 
ones and have advanced the emergence of democracy 
and  development  and  individual  liberty  on  every 
continent.
That progress is real. It can be documented in lives 
saved,  agreements  forged,  diseases  conquered  and 
mouths fed. And yet we come together today knowing 
that  the  march  of  human  progress  never  travels  in  a 
straight line, that our work is far from complete and that 
dangerous currents risk pulling us back into a darker, 
more disordered world.
Today we are seeing the collapse of strongmen and 
fragile  States  breeding  conflict  and  driving  innocent 
men,  women  and  children  across  borders  on  an  epic 
scale. Brutal networks of terror have stepped into the 
vacuum.  Technologies  that  empower  individuals  are 
now also exploited by those who spread disinformation, 
suppress dissent or radicalize our youth. Global capital 
flows  have  powered  growth  and  investment,  but  they 
have also increased the risk of contagion, weakened the 
bargaining power of workers and accelerated inequality.
How should we respond to those trends? There are 
those who argue that the ideals enshrined in the Charter 
of the United Nations are unachievable or out of date, 
a  legacy  of  a  postwar  era  not  suited  to  our  own.  In 
effect,  they  are  arguing  for  a  return  to  the  rules  that 
applied for most of human history and that predate this 
institution — the belief that power is a zero-sum game, 
that might makes right, that strong States must impose 
their will on weaker ones, that the rights of individuals 
do not matter and that in a time of rapid change, order 
must be imposed by force.
On  that  basis,  we  see  some  major  Powers  assert 
themselves  in  ways  that  contravene  international  law. 
We  see  an  erosion  of  the  democratic  principles  and 
human rights that are fundamental to this institution’s 
mission.  Information  is  strictly  controlled  and  the 
space for civil society restricted. We are told that such 
retrenchment is required to beat back disorder; that it is 
the only way to stamp out terrorism and prevent foreign 
meddling.  In  accordance  with  that  logic,  we  should 
support tyrants like Bashar Al-Assad, who drops barrel 
bombs  to  massacre  innocent  children,  because  the 
alternative is surely worse.
This increasing scepticism of our international order 
can also be found in the most advanced democracies. 
We see greater polarization and more frequent gridlock, 
with  movements  on  the  far  right,  and  sometimes  the 
left, that insist on stopping the trade that binds our fates 
to other nations or calling for the building of walls to 
keep out immigrants. Most ominously, we see the fears 
of  ordinary  people  being  exploited  through  appeals 
to  sectarianism,  tribalism,  racism  or  anti-Semitism; 
appeals to a glorious past before the body politic was 
infected  by  those  who  look  different  or  worship  God 
differently — a politics of us versus them.
The United States is not immune to this. Even as 
our  economy  is  growing  and  our  troops  have  largely 
returned  from  Iraq  and  Afghanistan,  we  see  in  our 
debates about America’s role in the world a notion of 
strength that is defined by opposition to old enemies, 
perceived  adversaries  —  a  rising  China  or  resurgent 
Russia,  a  revolutionary  Iran  or  an  Islam  that  is 
incompatible  with  peace.  We  see  arguments  that  the 
only  strength  that  matters  for  the  United  States  is 
bellicose  words  and  shows  of  military  force,  and  that 
cooperation and diplomacy will not work.
As  President  of  the  United  States,  I  am  mindful 
of the dangers that we face. They cross my desk every 
10/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
morning.  I  lead  the  strongest  military  that  the  world 
has ever known, and I will never hesitate to protect my 
country  or  our  allies,  unilaterally  and  by  force  where 
necessary.  But  I  stand  before  the  Assembly  today 
believing in my core that we, the nations of the world, 
cannot return to the old ways of conflict and coercion. 
We  cannot  look  backwards.  We  live  in  an  integrated 
world, one in which we all have a stake in one another’s 
success.
We cannot turn back those forces of integration. No 
nation here in the Assembly can insulate itself from the 
threat of terrorism, the risk of financial contagion, the 
flow  of  migrants  or  the  danger  of  a  warming  planet. 
The disorder we see is not driven solely by competition 
between nations or by any single ideology. If we cannot 
work  together  more  effectively,  we  will  all  suffer  the 
consequences.
That is true for the United States as well. No matter 
how powerful our military, how strong our economy, we 
understand the United States cannot solve the world’s 
problems alone. In Iraq, the United States learned the 
hard  lesson  that  even  with  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
brave,  effective  troops  and  trillions  of  dollars  from 
our Treasury, it cannot by itself impose stability on a 
foreign land. Unless we work with other nations under 
the  mantle  of  international  norms,  principles  and 
law  that  offers  legitimacy  to  our  efforts,  we  will  not 
succeed.  And  unless  we  work  together  to  defeat  the 
ideas that drive the various communities in a country 
like Iraq into conflict, any order that our militaries can 
impose will be temporary.
Just  as 
force  alone  cannot 
impose  order 
internationally,  I  believe  in  my  core  that  repression 
cannot  forge  the  social  cohesion  that  nations  need  to 
succeed.  The  history  of  the  last  two  decades  proves 
that  in  today’s  world,  dictatorships  are  unstable.  The 
strongmen  of  today  become  the  spark  of  revolution 
tomorrow.  You  can  jail  your  opponents,  but  you 
cannot imprison ideas. You can try to control access to 
information, but you cannot turn a lie into truth. It is not 
a conspiracy of United States-backed non-governmental 
organizations 
that  exposes  corruption  and  raises 
the  expectations  of  people  around  the  globe  —  it  is 
technology, social media and the irreducible desire of 
people  everywhere  to  make  their  own  choices  about 
how they are governed.
Indeed, I believe that in today’s world, the measure 
of  strength  is  no  longer  defined  by  the  control  of 
territory. Lasting prosperity does not come solely from 
the  ability  to  access  and  extract  raw  materials.  The 
strength  of  nations  depends  on  the  success  of  their 
people  —  their  knowledge,  innovation,  imagination, 
creativity, drive and opportunity — and that, in turn, 
depends  on  individual  rights,  good  governance  and 
personal security. Both internal repression and foreign 
aggression  are  symptoms  of  a  failure  to  provide  that 
foundation.
Politics and solidarity that depend on demonizing 
others,  that  draw  on  religious  sectarianism,  narrow 
tribalism or jingoism, may at times look like strength 
in  the  moment,  but  over  time  their  weakness  will  be 
exposed.  And  history  tells  us  that  the  dark  forces 
unleashed by this type of politics surely make all of us 
less secure. Our world has been there before. We gain 
nothing from going back.
Instead, I believe that we must go forward in pursuit 
of our ideals, not abandon them at this critical time. We 
must give expression to our best hopes, not our deepest 
fears.  This  institution  was  founded  because  men  and 
women who came before us had the foresight to know 
that our nations are more secure when we uphold basic 
laws and norms and pursue a path of cooperation rather 
than  conflict.  And  strong  nations,  above  all,  have  a 
responsibility to uphold that international order.
Let me give a concrete example. After I took office, 
I made it clear that one of the principal achievements 
of the United Nations — the nuclear non-proliferation 
regime  —  was  endangered  by  Iran’s  violation  of  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons. 
On that basis, the Security Council tightened sanctions 
on  the  Iranian  Government,  and  many  nations  joined 
us to enforce them. Together, we showed that laws and 
agreements  mean  something.  But  we  also  understood 
that the goal of sanctions was not simply to punish Iran. 
Our  objective  was  to  test  whether  Iran  could  change 
course,  accept  constraints  and  allow  the  world  to 
verify  that  its  nuclear  programme  would  be  peaceful. 
For  two  years,  the  United  States  and  our  partners, 
including Russia and China, stuck together in complex 
negotiations.  The  result  is  a  lasting,  comprehensive 
deal that prevents Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon 
while allowing it to access peaceful energy. If the deal is 
fully implemented, the prohibition on nuclear weapons 
is strengthened, a potential war is averted and our world 
is safer. That is the strength of the international system 
when it works the way it should.
That  same  fidelity  to  international  order  guides 
our  responses  to  other  challenges  around  the  world. 
15-29265
11/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
Consider  Russia’s  annexation  of  Crimea  and  further 
aggression  in  eastern  Ukraine.  America  has  few 
economic  interests  in  Ukraine,  and  we  recognize  the 
deep and complex history between Russia and Ukraine. 
But  we  cannot  stand  by  when  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity  of  a  nation  is  flagrantly  violated. 
If  that  happens  without  consequence  in  Ukraine,  it 
could happen to any of the nations gathered here today. 
That is the basis of the sanctions that the United States 
and our partners impose on Russia. It is not a desire to 
return to a cold war.
Now,  within  Russia,  State-controlled  media  may 
describe  those  events  as  an  example  of  a  resurgent 
Russia — a view shared, by the way, by a number of 
United States politicians and commentators who have 
always  been  deeply  sceptical  about  Russia  and  seem 
to  be  convinced  that  a  new  cold  war  is  in  fact  upon 
us. And yet look at the results. The Ukrainian people 
are more interested than ever in aligning with Europe 
instead of Russia. Sanctions have led to capital flight, a 
contracting economy, a fallen rouble and the emigration 
of more educated Russians.
Imagine 
if, 
instead,  Russia  had  engaged 
in 
true  diplomacy  and  worked  with  Ukraine  and  the 
international  community  to  ensure  that  its  interests 
were protected. That would be better for Ukraine, but 
also better for Russia and better for the world, which is 
why we continue to press for this crisis to be resolved in 
a way that allows a sovereign and democratic Ukraine to 
determine its future and control its territory. This is not 
because we want to isolate Russia — we do not — but 
because  we  want  a  strong  Russia  that  is  invested  in 
working with us to strengthen the international system 
as a whole.
Similarly, in the South China Sea, the United States 
makes no claim on territory there. We do not adjudicate 
claims.  But  like  every  nation  gathered  here,  we  have 
an interest in upholding the basic principles of freedom 
of  navigation  and  the  free  flow  of  commerce,  and  in 
resolving  disputes  through  international  law,  not  the 
law of force. So we will defend those principles, while 
encouraging China and other claimants to resolve their 
differences  peacefully.  I  say  this  while  recognizing 
that  diplomacy  is  hard,  the  outcomes  are  sometimes 
unsatisfying  and  it  is  rarely  politically  popular.  But  I 
believe that leaders of large nations in particular have 
an obligation to take those risks, precisely because we 
are strong enough to protect our interests if and when 
diplomacy fails.
I  also  believe  that  to  move  forward  in  this  new 
era,  we  have  to  be  strong  enough  to  acknowledge 
when what we are doing is not working. For 50 years, 
the United States pursued a Cuba policy that failed to 
improve  the  lives  of  the  Cuban  people.  We  changed 
that. We continue to have differences with the Cuban 
Government. We will continue to stand up for human 
rights. But we address those issues through diplomatic 
relations,  increased  commerce  and  people-to-people 
ties.  As  those  contacts  yield  progress,  I  am  confident 
that our Congress will inevitably lift an embargo that 
should not be in place any more. Change will not come 
overnight  to  Cuba,  but  I  am  confident  that  openness, 
not  coercion,  will  support  the  reforms  and  the  better 
life that the Cuban people deserve, just as I believe that 
Cuba will find its success if it pursues cooperation with 
other nations.
Now,  if  it  is  in  the  interest  of  major  Powers  to 
uphold international standards, that is even more true 
for the rest of the community of nations. Look around 
the  world.  From  Singapore  to  Colombia  to  Senegal, 
the facts show that nations succeed when they pursue 
an inclusive peace and prosperity within their borders 
and  work  cooperatively  with  countries  beyond  those 
borders.
That path is now available to a nation such as  Iran, 
which, as of this moment, continues to deploy violent 
proxies  to  advance  its  interests.  Those  efforts  may 
appear to give it leverage in disputes with its neighbours, 
but  they  fuel  sectarian  conflict  that  endangers  the 
entire  region  and  isolates  Iran  from  the  promise  of 
trade and commerce. The Iranian people have a proud 
history and are filled with extraordinary potential. But 
chanting  “Death  to  America”  does  not  create  jobs  or 
make Iran more secure. If Iran chooses a different path, 
that will be good for the security of the region, good for 
the Iranian people and good for the world.
Of  course,  around  the  globe,  we  will  continue  to 
be confronted with nations that reject these lessons of 
history  —  places  where  civil  strife,  border  disputes 
and  sectarian  wars  give  rise  to  terrorist  enclaves  and 
humanitarian  disasters.  Where  order  has  completely 
broken  down,  we  must  act,  but  we  will  be  stronger 
when we act together.
In  such  efforts,  the  United  States  will  always  do 
its  part.  We  will  do  so  mindful  of  the  lessons  of  the 
past — not just the lessons of Iraq, but also the example 
of  Libya,  where  we  joined  an  international  coalition 
12/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
under a United Nations mandate to prevent a slaughter. 
Even as we helped the Libyan people bring an end to the 
reign of a tyrant, our coalition could have and should 
have  done  more  to  fill  a  vacuum  left  behind.  We  are 
grateful to the United Nations for its efforts to forge a 
unity Government. We will help any legitimate Libyan 
Government as it works to bring the country together.
We also have to recognize that we must work more 
effectively in the future, as an international community, 
to build capacity for States that are in distress before 
they collapse. That is why we should celebrate the fact 
that, later today, the United States will join with more 
than 50 countries to enlist new capabilities — infantry, 
intelligence,  helicopters,  hospitals,  and 
tens  of 
thousands  of  troops  —  to  strengthen  United  Nations 
peacekeeping. These new capabilities can prevent mass 
killing and ensure that peace agreements are more than 
words on paper. But we have to do it together. Together, 
we must strengthen our collective capacity to establish 
security where order has broken down and to support 
those who seek a just and lasting peace.
Nowhere is our commitment to international order 
more tested than in Syria. When a dictator slaughters 
tens of thousands of his own people, that is not just a 
matter of one nation’s internal affairs. It breeds human 
suffering on an order of magnitude that affects us all. 
Likewise,  when  a  terrorist  group  beheads  captives, 
slaughters  the  innocent  and  enslaves  women,  that  is 
not a single nation’s national security problem. It is an 
assault on humankind as a whole.
I have said before and I will repeat: there is no room 
to  accommodate  an  apocalyptic  cult  like  the  Islamic 
State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL),  and  the  United 
States  makes  no  apologies  for  using  our  military,  as 
part  of  a  broad  coalition,  to  go  after  them.  We  do  so 
with a determination to ensure that there will never be a 
safe haven for terrorists who carry out these crimes. We 
have demonstrated over more than a decade of relentless 
pursuit  of  Al-Qaida  that  we  will  not  be  outlasted  by 
extremists.
While  military  power  is  necessary,  it  is  not 
sufficient  to  resolve  the  situation  in  Syria.  Lasting 
stability  can  take  hold  only  when  the  people  of  Syria 
forge  an  agreement  to  live  together  peacefully.  The 
United  States  is  prepared  to  work  with  any  nation, 
including Russia and Iran, to resolve the conflict. But 
we  must  recognize  that  after  so  much  bloodshed,  so 
much carnage, there cannot be a return to the pre-war 
status quo.
Let us remember how this started. Al-Assad reacted 
to peaceful protests by escalating repression and killing 
that,  in  turn,  created  the  environment  for  the  current 
strife.  And  so  Al-Assad  and  his  allies  cannot  simply 
pacify the broad majority of a population that has been 
brutalized  by  chemical  weapons  and  indiscriminate 
bombing. Yes, realism dictates that compromise will be 
required to end the fighting and, ultimately, stamp out 
ISIL.  But  realism  also  requires  a  managed  transition 
away  from  Al-Assad  and  to  a  new  leader,  and  an 
inclusive Government that recognizes there must be an 
end to this chaos so that the Syrian people can begin to 
rebuild.
We  know  that  ISIL  —  which  emerged  out  of  the 
chaos of Iraq and Syria — depends on perpetual war 
to survive, but we also know that they gain adherents 
because  of  a  poisonous  ideology.  Part  of  our  job, 
together, is to work to reject such extremism that infects 
too many of our young people. Part of that effort must be 
a continued rejection by Muslims of those who distort 
Islam  to  preach  intolerance  and  promote  violence.  It 
must  also  involve  a  rejection  by  non-Muslims  of  the 
ignorance that equates Islam with terrorism.
This work will take time. There are no easy answers 
to Syria, and there are no simple answers to the changes 
that  are  taking  place  in  much  of  the  Middle  East  and 
North Africa. But so many families need help right now; 
they do not have time. That is why the United States is 
increasing the number of refugees whom we welcome 
within  our  borders.  That  is  why  we  will  continue  to 
be  the  largest  donor  of  assistance  to  support  those 
refugees. Today we are launching new efforts to ensure 
that our people and our businesses, our universities and 
our non-governmental organizations can help as well, 
because in the faces of suffering families, our nation of 
immigrants sees itself.
Of course, in the old ways of thinking, the plight 
of  the  powerless,  the  plight  of  refugees,  the  plight  of 
the  marginalized  did  not  matter.  They  were  on  the 
periphery of the world’s concerns. Today, our concern 
for  them  is  driven  not  just  by  conscience,  but  should 
also be driven by self-interest. Helping people who have 
been  pushed  to  the  margins  of  our  world  is  not  mere 
charity; it is a matter of collective security. The purpose 
of this institution is not merely to avoid conflict; it is 
to galvanize the collective action that makes life better 
on this planet.
The commitments we have made to the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  speak  to  this  truth.  I  believe  that 
15-29265
13/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
capitalism has been the greatest creator of wealth and 
opportunity  that  the  world  has  ever  known.  But  from 
big  cities  to  rural  villages  around  the  world,  we  also 
know that prosperity is still cruelly out of reach for too 
many. As His Holiness Pope Francis reminds us, we are 
stronger when we value the least among these and see 
them as equal in dignity to ourselves and our sons and 
our daughters.
We can roll back preventable disease and end the 
scourge  of  HIV/AIDS.  We  can  stamp  out  pandemics 
that  recognize  no  borders.  That  work  may  not  be 
on  television  right  now,  but  as  we  demonstrated  in 
reversing  the  spread  of  Ebola,  it  can  save  more  lives 
than anything else we can do. Together, we can eradicate 
extreme poverty and erase barriers to opportunity. But 
this requires a sustained commitment to our people so 
farmers  can  feed  more  people,  so  entrepreneurs  can 
start a business without paying a bribe, so young people 
have  the  skills  they  need  to  succeed  in  this  modern, 
knowledge-based economy.
We can promote growth through trade that meets a 
higher standard, and that is what we are doing through 
the Trans-Pacific Partnership — a trade agreement that 
encompasses nearly 40 per cent of the global economy, 
an agreement that will open markets while protecting 
the  rights  of  workers  and  protecting  the  environment 
that enables development to be sustained.
We  can  roll  back  the  pollution  that  we  put  in  our 
skies  and  help  economies  lift  people  out  of  poverty 
without  condemning  our  children  to  the  ravages  of 
an  ever-warming  climate.  The  same  ingenuity  that 
produced  the  Industrial  Age  and  the  Computer  Age 
allows us to harness the potential of clean energy. No 
country can escape the ravages of climate change. And 
there  is  no  stronger  sign  of  leadership  than  putting 
future  generations  first.  The  United  States  will  work 
with every nation that is willing to do its part so that 
we  can  come  together  in  Paris  to  decisively  confront 
this challenge.
Finally,  regarding  our  vision  for  the  future  of 
the  Assembly,  my  belief  in  moving  forward  rather 
than  backwards  requires  us  to  defend  the  democratic 
principles that allow societies to succeed. Let me start 
from a simple premise. Catastrophes like what we are 
seeing  in  Syria  do  not  take  place  in  countries  where 
there is genuine democracy and respect for the universal 
values this institution is supposed to defend.
I  recognize  that  democracy  is  going  to  take 
different forms in different parts of the world. The very 
idea  of  a  people  governing  themselves  depends  upon 
government giving expression to their unique culture, 
their  unique  history,  their  unique  experiences.  But 
some universal truths are self-evident. No person wants 
to  be  imprisoned  for  peaceful  worship.  No  woman 
should ever be abused with impunity, no girl should be 
barred from attending school. There should be freedom 
to  peacefully  petition  those  in  power  without  fear  of 
arbitrary  laws.  These  are  not  ideas  of  one  country  or 
one culture. They are fundamental to human progress. 
They are a cornerstone of this institution.
I realize that in many parts of the world there is a 
different  view —  a  belief  that  strong  leadership  must 
tolerate  no  dissent.  I  hear  it  not  only  from  America’s 
adversaries,  but  —  privately,  at  least  —  I  also  hear 
it  from  some  of  our  friends.  I  disagree.  I  believe  a 
Government  that  suppresses  peaceful  dissent  is  not 
showing  strength.  It  is  showing  weakness  and  it  is 
showing fear.
I  understand 
is 
History  shows  that  regimes  that  fear  their  own 
people will eventually crumble, but strong institutions 
built on the consent of the governed endure long after 
any one individual is gone. That is why our strongest 
leaders, from George Washington to Nelson Mandela, 
have  elevated  the  importance  of  building  strong, 
democratic  institutions  over  a  thirst  for  perpetual 
power.  Leaders  who  amend  constitutions  to  stay  in 
office  only  acknowledge  that  they  failed  to  build  a 
successful country for their people, because none of us 
lasts  forever.  It  tells  us  that  power  is  something  they 
cling to for its own sake rather than for the betterment 
of those whom they purport to serve.
that  democracy 
frustrating. 
Democracy in the United States is certainly imperfect. 
At times it can be dysfunctional. But democracy — the 
constant struggle to extend rights to more of our people, 
to  give  more  people  a  voice —  is  what  allowed  us  to 
become the most powerful nation in the world. It is not 
simply  a  matter  of  principle;  it  is  not  an  abstraction. 
Democracy,  inclusive  democracy,  makes  countries 
stronger.  When  opposition  parties  can  seek  power 
peacefully  through  the  ballot,  a  country  draws  upon 
new ideas. When a free media can inform the public, 
corruption  and  abuse  are  exposed  and  can  be  rooted 
out. When civil society thrives, communities can solve 
problems  that  Governments  cannot  necessarily  solve 
alone.  When  immigrants  are  welcomed,  countries  are 
14/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
more productive and more vibrant. When girls can go 
to school, get a job and pursue unlimited opportunities, 
that is when a country realizes its full potential.
That is what I believe is America’s greatest strength. 
Not everybody in America agrees with me. That is part 
of democracy. I believe that the fact that one can walk 
the streets of this city right now and pass churches and 
synagogues  and  temples  and  mosques  where  people 
worship freely; the fact that our nation of immigrants 
mirrors the diversity of the world — one can find people 
from everywhere here in New York City — the fact that 
in  this  country  everybody  can  contribute,  everybody 
can  participate  no  matter  who  they  are  or  what  they 
look like or whom they love — that is what makes us 
strong.
I believe that what is true for America is true for 
virtually all mature democracies. That is no accident. 
We  can  be  proud  of  our  nations  without  defining 
ourselves  in  opposition  to  some  other  group.  We  can 
be  patriotic  without  demonizing  someone  else.  We 
can  cherish  our  own  identities  —  our  religion,  our 
ethnicity,  our  traditions  —  without  putting  others 
down.  Our  systems  are  premised  on  the  notion  that 
absolute power will corrupt, but that people, ordinary 
people, are fundamentally good and value family and 
friendship,  faith  and  the  dignity  of  hard  work.  And 
with  appropriate  checks  and  balances,  Governments 
can reflect that goodness. I believe that is the future we 
must seek together — to believe in the dignity of every 
individual,  to  believe  we  can  bridge  our  differences 
and  choose  cooperation  over  conflict.  That  is  not 
weakness; that is strength. It is a practical necessity in 
our interconnected world.
Our people understand this. Think of the Liberian 
doctor who went door to door to search for Ebola cases 
and to tell families what to do if they show symptoms. 
Think  of  the  Iranian  shopkeeper  who  said  after  the 
nuclear  deal,  “God  willing,  now  we  will  be  able  to 
offer many more goods at better prices”. Think of the 
Americans who lowered the flag over our embassy in 
Havana in 1961, the year I was born, and who returned 
this  summer  to  raise  that  flag  back  up.  One  of  those 
men said of the Cuban people, “We could do things for 
them, and they could do things for us. We loved them”. 
For 50 years we ignored that fact. Think of the families 
leaving  everything  they  have  known  behind,  risking 
barren  deserts  and  stormy  waters  just  to  find  shelter, 
just to save their children. One Syrian refugee who was 
met in Hamburg with warm greetings and shelter said, 
“We  feel  there  are  still  some  people  who  love  other 
people”.
The people of our United Nations are not as different 
as they have been told. They can be made to fear; they 
can be taught to hate, but they can also respond to hope. 
History is littered with the failure of false prophets and 
fallen empires who believed that might always makes 
right. That will continue to be the case. We can count 
on it. But we are called upon to offer a different type 
of leadership, a leadership strong enough to recognize 
that nations share common interests and people share 
a common humanity. And, yes, there are certain ideas 
and principles that are universal. That is what those who 
shaped the United Nations 70 years ago understood. Let 
us carry that faith forward into the future, for it is the 
only way we can ensure that the future will be brighter, 
for my children and for everyone’s children.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Barack  Obama,  President  of  the  United 
States of America, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Andrzej Duda, President of the 
Republic of Poland
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Poland.
Mr.  Andrzej  Duda,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Poland,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Andrzej  Duda,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Poland,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly
the  delegation):  I  congratulate 
President  Duda  (spoke  in  Polish;  interpretation 
provided  by 
the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session, Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, on his election to that 
honourable office. I wish to assure you, Mr. President, 
of Poland’s full support for your actions.
Peace  and  law:  those  are  the  two  key  words  that 
enable us to understand and appreciate the importance 
of the United Nations over past 70 years in the world’s 
history.  Peace  and  law,  two  words  without  which  it 
is  impossible  to  imagine  the  coexistence  of  nations, 
15-29265
15/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
different ethnic groups and the followers of the various 
religions.  Peace  and  law:  they  are  beautiful  and 
important concepts, but extremely fragile ones that we 
need to take care of and to cultivate unceasingly.
of  genocide  in  legal  language  for  the  first  time.  The 
Polish lawyer had direct experience of genocide: almost 
all of his family perished — murdered in the German 
camps of annihilation.
We  Poles  know  full  well  that  peace  is  not  to  be 
taken  for  granted.  Less  than  one  month  ago,  it  was 
incumbent  on  me,  as  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Poland,  to  deliver  a  speech  at  the  commemoration  of 
the  seventy-sixth  anniversary  of  the  outbreak  of  the 
Second World War. At dawn on 1 September 1939, the 
invasion  of  Nazi  Germany  against  my  home  country 
was unleashed. Seventeen days later, on 17 September 
1939, we received a blow from the other side, when the 
Union  of  Soviet  Socialist  Republics  attacked  Poland, 
and Poland vanished from the map. However, the Poles 
are a proud nation, and they did not give up, because 
what they love, above all, is freedom. That is why they 
fought, to the end, on the side of the free world.
The Second World War, the greatest and bloodiest 
in  the  history  of  humankind,  caused  the  whole  of 
Europe,  East  and  South-East  Asia,  North  Africa,  the 
Middle East and all the oceans to plunge into the dark 
reign  of  crime,  barbarity  and  suffering.  International 
law fell, as one of the first victims of the war back then. 
The  next  victim  was  human  rights,  starting  from  the 
fundamental right to live and ending with the rights of 
soldiers in combat, the rights of civilians crushed under 
bombing raids and the rights of refugees. The scale of 
terror,  destruction  and  lawlessness  committed  during 
those days put the international community to a serious 
test.  The  need  appeared  to  step  up  efforts  to  protect 
peace and safeguard it for the future.
The  year  1945  marked  more  than  the  end  of  the 
Second  World  War;  it  was  also  the  birth  year  of  the 
United  Nations,  the  most  fundamental  mechanism 
for  cooperation  within  the  international  community, 
advocating  for  global  peace  and  security.  In  1945, 
international  criminal  courts  were  established 
in 
Nuremberg and Tokyo. Lastly, the 1940s also marked 
the  adoption  of  two  particularly  crucial  documents: 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime of Genocide, the concept of which was largely 
formulated by Raphael Lemkin, a great Pole of Jewish 
descent,  an  eminent  lawyer  and  university  lecturer 
and a nominee for the Nobel Peace Prize. Lemkin was 
fluent in nine languages, but he was most fluent in the 
language of law. He noted the absence of an important 
word. It was Lemkin who invented and applied the term 
The  emphasis  on  the  respect  for  international 
law, as well as the unconditional punishment of those 
responsible  for  war  crimes,  was  meant  to  be  one  of 
the ways and means to prevent bloody conflicts in the 
future.  As  Pope  John  Paul  II  observed,  “Peace  and 
international law are closely linked to each other; law 
favours  peace”.  Unfortunately,  international  treaties 
are  still  being  violated,  solemn  pledges  are  being 
neglected,  and  human  rights  are  commonly  being 
trampled. We should constantly recall that fact. We can 
never be reminded too often that international law is a 
fundamental value and a fundamental tool for building 
peace  in  the  world  and  that  no  declarations  made  by 
the  leaders  of  States,  no  promises,  no  entreaties,  can 
replace 
treaties,  conventions  and  resolutions.  No 
negotiations  behind  closed  doors  may  ever  lead  to 
the  violation  and  trampling  of  international  law  and 
resolutions.  All  States  should  be  afforded  the  equal 
enjoyment of the rights vested in them, and any actions 
undermining those rules should be firmly rejected by 
the international community.
Poland,  so  gravely  affected  by  the  Second  World 
War  and  by  over  40  years  of  oppression  from  the 
communist regime, is particularly sensitive to the use 
of  force  in  the  relations  between  States,  the  use  of 
armed  aggression  and  the  violation  of  human  rights. 
Poland  feels  an  obligation  to  remind  everyone  that 
such  methods  are  not  only  immoral  and  incompatible 
with the broadly understood concept of humanism, but 
above  all,  they  violate  international  law.  That  is  why 
I  would  like  to  forcefully  reiterate  that,  when  a  State 
perpetrates  an  act  of  aggression,  basing  its  foreign 
policy  on  faits  accomplis  through  the  use  of  tanks, 
missiles  and  bombs,  the  international  community  has 
an  obligation  to  reject  the  facts  created  through  such 
means.
In that regard, it is crucially important to continue 
to  work  on  streamlining  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Security  Council,  the  body  responsible  for  protecting 
international peace. It must be constantly recalled that 
the  privilege  of  permanent  membership  is  connected 
with the duty to take active measures to implement the 
fundamental goals of the United Nations as set forth in 
Article 1 of the Charter. In recent years, the right to the 
veto  has  led,  on  many  occasions,  to  a  total  stalemate 
16/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
in the Council’s work, precisely on the most important 
security issues. That is why Poland supports the French 
proposal to adopt a code of conduct for refraining from 
the use of the veto when members are confronted by the 
gravest  crimes  under  international  law,  including  the 
crime of genocide.
Let us look at the world today, which is so assailed 
by trouble. With millions of people suffering from war, 
destitution, famine and religious persecutions, can we 
afford  to  circumvent  the  principles  enshrined  in  the 
Charter? Should we be turning a blind eye to breaches 
of  existing  commitments  or  to  actions  taken  from  a 
position of power or based on faits accomplis? Should 
we wave aside manipulations of the law and propaganda 
activities that seek to justify base and illegal actions? 
The answer is no, and that must be the answer of every 
decent and honest human being and politician.
The  former  President  of  the  Republic  of  Poland, 
Professor Lech Kaczyński, addressing the Assembly in 
this  Hall  back  in  2009,  pointed  out  that  the  violation 
of  the  territorial  integrity  of  States  always  gives  rise 
to  conflicts  on  a  global  scale  (see  A/64/PV.4).  In  my 
capacity  as  President  of  Poland,  I  would  also  like  to 
express,  on  behalf  of  my  country,  my  opposition  to  a 
world built on a division into zones of influence, and 
my rejection of acts of aggression perpetrated by those 
who,  driven  by  their  interests  and  ambitions,  ignore 
the  provisions  of  international  law,  thereby  thwarting 
the collective work of the United Nations over the past 
70 years. In our part of Europe, we know all too well 
the costs to be incurred as the result of such policies, 
especially  in  the  absence  of  a  decisive  reaction  and 
the solidarity of other States in the early stages of an 
aggression.
Contempt  for  international  law  may  turn  out,  in 
fact, to be one of the seeds of war. And once war has 
broken  out,  there  is  generally  no  rule  of  law  in  the 
territories overwhelmed by warfare. We see that in the 
Middle East, where State institutions have been either 
excessively  strained  or  replaced  by  private  armies, 
terrorist  militias  and  self-proclaimed  courts.  That 
constitutes  yet  another  challenge  to  both  the  world 
and  the  United  Nations.  With  increasing  frequency, 
conflicts arise in which it is almost impossible to define 
the opposing sides and in which combat is carried out 
not by States, but rather by indeterminate armed groups 
in which it is difficult to distinguish a soldier from a 
civilian.  How  are  we  to  adjust  existing  regulations  to 
deal with such new circumstances, which, in the eyes 
of many politicians and specialists in international law, 
have still not been fully researched and understood?
Unfortunately, one thing has remained unchanged 
for centuries: in various parts of the world, in numerous 
conflict  situations,  the  freedom  of  conscience  and 
religion  are  systematically  restrained.  Members  of 
religious  minorities,  nowadays  especially  Christians, 
are  exposed  to  persecution.  In  the  Middle  East,  the 
incidence  of  acts  of  violence  targeting  members  of 
Christian churches is growing at an alarming pace. Nor 
should  we  forget  the  plight  of  the  Yazidi  community, 
which  has  been  murdered  and  evicted  from  its  native 
soil.  Poland  appeals  to  the  international  community 
to take decisive steps to protect the rights of religious 
minorities.
Military  conflicts  in  the  Middle  East  are  taking 
a  toll  of  thousands  of  innocent  lives  and  violating 
the  social  and  economic  stability  of  the  region.  The 
militants of the so-called Islamic State in Iraq and the 
Levant  continue  to  pillage  museums,  defile  Christian 
and  Shia  shrines,  and  blow  up  the  remains  of  ancient 
metropolises. At the end of August, we were informed 
about  the  destruction  of  temple  Baal  Shamin  in 
Palmyra,  a  monument  with  2,000  years  of  tradition. 
UNESCO  Director  General  Irina  Bokova  has  stated 
that the devastation of that temple constitutes nothing 
less than a war crime. In the face of those beastly acts, 
the international community should take more decisive 
steps  in  order  to  stem  the  practice  of  destroying  and 
looting the world heritage of humanity.
Never since the start of the United Nations has the 
international community had to address a humanitarian 
crisis on a scale such as the one it faces today. Poland is 
working to reinforce the global system of humanitarian 
aid  by  fostering  cooperation  among  international 
institutions,  Governments, 
law  enforcement  and 
nongovernmental  organizations.  At  the  same  time, 
there needs to be greater emphasis on the relationship 
between  humanitarian  aid  and  aid  for  development. 
Here,  I  would  like  to  mention  with  great  satisfaction 
the contribution of Polish humanitarian organizations, 
which actively support those in need. They have built 
schools  and  welfare  centres,  drilled  wells,  provided 
clothing and blankets, assisted the victims of conflicts 
and responded in the wake of natural disasters. I would 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  sincerest 
gratitude to all good-hearted people and to the people 
of  conscience  who  are  providing  assistance  to  others, 
often at the risk of their own lives.
15-29265
17/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
Respect for human rights is a key premise for the 
maintenance of peace and justice in the lives of States 
and nations.
For  Poland, 
the  freedom  of 
the  defence  of 
conscience,  worship  and  speech 
is  of  particular 
importance.  And  the  freedom  of  speech  entails  the 
duty to tell the truth. Nothing is more poisonous to the 
relations among peoples and States than manipulating 
the truth or spreading lies and degrading stereotypes. 
That is why the truth, including the truth about history, 
is such a crucial component of relations among States 
and nations.
Here,  I  would  like  to  highlight  the  fate  of  those 
for  whom  standing  up  for  truth  and  for  freedom  of 
speech  has  often  been  punished  with  imprisonment 
or  even  death  at  the  hands  of  their  oppressors —  the 
courageous and uncompromising dissidents, journalists 
and  bloggers  who  expose  the  crimes  of  totalitarian 
regimes,  the  atrocities  perpetrated  by  terrorists  in 
various  corners  of  the  world  and  the  brutality  of  law 
enforcement  authorities.  We  must  not  forget  their 
dedication.  The  international  community  should  offer 
them appropriate protection, including legal protection.
And  there  is  another  social  group  that  cannot  be 
left out when we speak about human rights, or about the 
effects of war and mass migration. I am thinking here 
of women: the mothers, wives and daughters of Asia, 
Africa, the Middle East and Ukraine. They require our 
particular attention, because they suffer doubly: first, 
when they lose their sense of security, with war raging 
around them, and then when they lose their husbands, 
fathers, brothers or sons, sometimes without even being 
able to bury them. The tears of bereft women, victims 
of war, pose the greatest charge against humanity in the 
twenty-first century.
The  defence  of  democracy,  sustainable  economic 
growth, the elimination of social inequalities, broader 
access  to  education  and  the  long-term  mitigation  of 
the  impacts  of  climate  change  —  all  those  measures 
contribute  to  the  preservation  of  world  peace.  In 
that  context,  I  wish  to  assure  the  Assembly  of  my 
country’s readiness to participate in the attainment of 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (resolution  70/1). 
Poland has, among other things, actively participated in 
the current international effort to achieve a new climate 
agreement.  We  see  the  need  to  reach  a  permanent 
understanding in that field, one that will be joined by 
all  States  and  will  engage  the  efforts  of  all  States  in 
proportion  to  their  actual  capabilities.  In  other  ways, 
Poland has had an impressive track record with regard 
to  environmental  protection.  Suffice  it  to  say  that 
our  economic  transformation  has  contributed  to  the 
lowering  of  carbon  dioxide  emissions  in  Poland  by 
30 per cent since 1990.
to 
We  also  stand  ready 
increase  our  direct 
contribution  to  peacekeeping  and  the  preservation  of 
security. In that spirit, we have submitted our candidacy 
to be a non-permanent member of the Security Council. 
Poland,  still  mindful  of  the  tragedy  of  the  Second 
World War and the communist era, pledges to actively 
cooperate  in  building  an  international  order  based 
on  the  rule  of  law.  Law  contributes  to  the  effective 
functioning  of  the  societies  of  which  our  States  are 
composed. But it also serves to help establish effective 
and  peaceful  arrangements  among  States  themselves. 
Let us therefore create a world founded on the strength 
of the rule of law and not on the law of force.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Poland 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Andrzej  Duda,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Poland,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Xi Jinping, President of the 
People’s Republic of China
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China.
Mr. Xi Jinping, President of the People’s Republic 
of China, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Xi  Jinping,  President  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Xi  Jinping  (spoke  in  Chinese): Just 
70 years ago, an earlier generation fought heroically and 
secured victory in an anti-fascist war, thereby ending 
a  dark  chapter  in  the  annals  of  human  history.  That 
victory was hard won. Seventy years ago, humankind, 
acting with vision and foresight, established the United 
Nations.  That  universal  and  most  representative  and 
authoritative  international  Organization  has  carried 
humankind’s hope for a new future and ushered in a new 
18/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
era of cooperation. It was a pioneering initiative never 
undertaken before. Seventy years ago, that generation 
pooled their wisdom to adopt the Charter of the United 
Nations,  laying  the  cornerstone  for  the  contemporary 
international  order  and  establishing  the  fundamental 
principles  of  contemporary  international  relations.  It 
was an achievement of profound impact.
On 3 September, the Chinese people, together with 
other  peoples  of  the  world,  solemnly  commemorated 
the seventieth anniversary of the Chinese people’s war 
of resistance against Japanese aggression and fascism 
in  the  Second  World  War.  In  the  main  theatre  in  the 
East,  China  made  a  national  sacrifice,  suffering  over 
35 million casualties in its fight against the main troops 
of Japanese militarism. China not only saved itself and 
its people from subjugation, but also gave strong support 
to the forces fighting aggression in the European and 
Pacific theatres, thereby making a historic contribution 
to the victory in that anti-fascist world war.
History  is  like  a  mirror.  Only  by  drawing  on  the 
lessons  of  history  can  the  world  avoid  repeating  past 
calamities.  We  should  review  history  with  respect 
and  in  full  conscience.  The  past  cannot  be  changed, 
but the future can be shaped. Bearing history in mind 
is  not  to  perpetuate  hatred.  Rather,  it  is  necessary  so 
that  humankind  does  not  forget  history’s  lessons. 
Remembering  history  does  not  mean  being  obsessed 
with  the  past;  rather,  in  doing  so,  we  aim  to  create  a 
better future and pass the torch of peace from generation 
to generation.
The United Nations has survived the test of time. 
Over the past seven decades, it has witnessed the efforts 
of all countries to uphold peace, build homelands and 
pursue  cooperation.  Having  reached  a  historic  new 
starting point, the United Nations needs to address the 
central issue of how to better promote world peace and 
development in the twenty-first century. The world is 
experiencing a historic process of accelerated evolution. 
The sunshine of peace, development and progress will 
be  powerful  enough  to  penetrate  the  clouds  of  war, 
poverty  and  backwardness.  The  movement  towards 
a  multipolar  world  and  the  rise  of  emerging  markets 
and developing countries have become an irreversible 
historical  trend.  Economic  globalization  with  the 
advent  of  the  information  age  has  unleashed  and 
greatly boosted social productive forces that have both 
created unprecedented development opportunities and 
given rise to new threats and challenges that we must 
squarely face.
justice,  democracy  and  freedom  are 
As an ancient Chinese goes, “Our greatest ideal is to 
create a world truly shared by all”. Peace, development, 
equity, 
the 
common  values  of  humankind  and  the  lofty  goals  of 
the United Nations. Yet those goals are far from having 
been  achieved,  and  we  must  continue  our  endeavours 
to  meet  them.  In  today’s  world,  all  countries  are 
interdependent and share a common future. We should 
renew our commitment to the purposes and principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations, so as to fashion 
a  new  kind  of  international  relations  with  win-win 
cooperation  at  its  core  and  to  create  an  international 
community that realizes a shared positive future for all 
of humankind. To achieve that goal, we need to make 
the following efforts. 
We  should  build  partnerships  in  which  countries 
treat each other as equals, engage in mutual consultation 
and  show  mutual  understanding.  The  principle  of 
sovereign equality underpins the Charter of the United 
Nations. The future of the world must be shaped by all 
countries. All countries are equals. Those who are big, 
strong  and  rich  should  not  bully  the  small,  weak  and 
poor. The principle of sovereignty not only means that 
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries 
are  inviolable  and  that  their  internal  affairs  are  not 
subject to interference. It also means that the right of 
all  countries  to  independently  choose  social  systems 
and  development  paths  should  be  upheld  and  that  the 
endeavours  of  all  countries  to  promote  economic  and 
social development and to improve their people’s lives 
should be respected.
We  should  be  committed  to  multilateralism  and 
reject unilateralism. We should adopt a new vision of 
seeking win-win outcomes for all and reject the outdated 
mindset that one’s gain means the other’s loss or that 
the winner takes all. Consultation is an important form 
of democracy, and it should also become an important 
means  of  exercising  contemporary 
international 
governance. We should resolve disputes and differences 
through  dialogue  and  consultation.  We  should  forge 
a  global  partnership  at  both  the  international  and 
regional  levels,  and  embrace  a  new  approach  to 
State-to-State  relations,  one  that  features  dialogue 
rather than confrontation and seeks partnership rather 
than alliance.
Major countries should follow the principles of no 
conflict, no confrontation, mutual respect and win-win 
cooperation  in  handling  their  relations.  Big  countries 
should treat small countries as equals and take the right 
15-29265
19/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
approach  to  justice  and  interests  by  putting  justice 
before interests.
We should create a security architecture featuring 
fairness, justice, joint contributions and shared benefits. 
In  an  age  of  economic  globalization,  the  security  of 
all  countries  is  interlinked  and  has  a  mutual  impact. 
No country can maintain absolute security by its own 
efforts alone, and no country can achieve stability on 
the basis of other countries’ instability. The law of the 
jungle leaves the weak at the mercy of the strong; that 
is not the way for countries to conduct their relations. 
Those  who  adopt  the  high-handed  approach  of  using 
force will find that they are only lifting a rock to drop 
it on their own feet.
We should abandon the Cold War mentality in all 
its manifestations and foster a new vision of common, 
comprehensive,  cooperative  and  sustainable  security. 
We should give full play to the central role of the United 
Nations and its Security Council in ending conflict and 
keeping peace, and adopt the dual approach of seeking 
peaceful  solutions  to  disputes  and  taking  the  actions 
required to turn hostility into amity.
We  should  advance  international  cooperation  in 
both the economic and social fields and take a holistic 
approach to addressing traditional and non-traditional 
security threats, so as to prevent conflicts from breaking 
out in the first place.
We should promote open, innovative and inclusive 
development  that  benefits  all.  The  2008  international 
financial crisis taught us that allowing capital to blindly 
pursue  profit  can  only  create  a  crisis  and  that  global 
prosperity cannot be built on the shaky foundation of 
a  market  without  moral  constraints.  The  growing  gap 
between rich and poor is both unsustainable and unfair. 
It  is  important  for  us  to  use  both  the  invisible  hand 
and the visible hand to create synergy between market 
forces and Government function and strive to achieve 
both efficiency and fairness.
Development 
it 
is  meaningful  only  when 
is 
inclusive  and  sustainable.  Achieve  this  goal  requires 
openness, mutual assistance and win-win cooperation. 
In today’s world, close to 800 million people still live 
in extreme poverty; nearly 6 million children die before 
the age of 5 each year; and nearly 60 million children 
are unable to go to school. The just-concluded United 
Nations  sustainable  development  Summit  adopted  the 
post-2015  development  Agenda  (resolution  70/1).  We 
must translate our commitments into action and work 
together  to  ensure  a  bright  future  in  which  everyone 
is free from want, has access to development and lives 
with dignity.
We should increase inter-civilization exchanges so 
as  to  promote  harmony,  inclusiveness  and  respect  for 
differences. The world is simply more colourful as a result 
of  its  cultural  diversity.  Diversity  breeds  exchanges, 
exchanges  create  integration,  and  integration  makes 
progress  possible.  In  their  interactions,  civilizations 
must  accept  their  differences.  Only  through  mutual 
respect,  mutual  learning  and  harmonious  coexistence 
can  the  world  maintain  its  diversity  and  thrive.  Each 
civilization reflects the unique vision and contribution 
of  its  people,  and  no  civilization  is  superior  to  any 
other. Different civilizations should have dialogue and 
exchanges instead of trying to exclude or replace one 
another. The history of humankind is a process of active 
exchanges, interactions and integration among different 
civilizations.  We  should  respect  all  civilizations  and 
treat one another as equals. We should draw inspiration 
from one another to boost the creative development of 
human civilization.
We  should  build  an  ecosystem  that  puts  Mother 
Nature  and  green  development  first.  Humankind  may 
utilize nature and even try to transform it, but we are, 
after all, a part of it. We should care for nature and not 
place ourselves above it. We should reconcile industrial 
development with nature and pursue harmony between 
man and nature to achieve the sustainable development 
of 
the  all-round  development  of 
humankind.
the  world  and 
together 
To build a sound ecology is vital for humankind’s 
future.  All  members  of  the  international  community 
should  work 
to  build  a  sound  global 
eco-environment.  We  should  respect  nature,  follow 
nature’s  ways  and  protect  nature.  We  should  firmly 
pursue  green,  low-carbon,  circular  and  sustainable 
development.  China  will  shoulder 
its  share  of 
responsibility  and  continue  to  play  its  part  in  this 
common endeavour. We also urge developed countries 
to  fulfil  their  historical  responsibilities,  honour  their 
emission-reduction  commitments  and  help  developing 
countries mitigate and adapt to climate change.
The  more  than  1.3  billion  Chinese  people  are 
endeavouring  to  realize  the  Chinese  dream  of  great 
national renewal. The dream of the Chinese people is 
closely connected with the dreams of the other peoples 
of  the  world.  We  cannot  realize  the  Chinese  dream 
without a peaceful international environment, a stable 
20/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
international  order  and  the  understanding,  support 
and  help  of  the  rest  of  the  world.  The  realization  of 
the  Chinese  dream  will  bring  more  opportunities  to 
other  countries  and  contribute  to  global  peace  and 
development.
China will continue to participate in building world 
peace. We are committed to peaceful development. No 
matter  how  the  international  landscape  may  evolve 
and how strong China may become, China will never 
seek  hegemony  or  expansion  or  to  establish  a  sphere 
of influence. We will continue to contribute to global 
development and to pursue common development and 
the  win-win  strategy  of  opening  up.  We  are  ready  to 
share  our  development  experience  and  opportunities 
with other countries, and we invite other countries to 
board China’s express train of development, so that all 
of us will achieve common development.
China  will  continue  to  uphold  the  international 
order. We will stay committed to the path of peaceful 
development through cooperation. China was the first 
country to put its signature on the Charter of the United 
Nations.  We  will  continue  to  uphold  the  international 
order  and  system,  underpinned  by  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter.  China  will  continue  to 
stand  together  with  other  developing  countries.  We 
firmly  support  the  greater  representation  and  voice 
of developing countries, especially African countries, 
in  the  international  governance  system.  In  voting  at 
the  United  Nations,  China  will  always  side  with  the 
developing countries.
I take this opportunity to announce China’s decision 
to establish a 10-year, $1 billion peace and development 
fund to support the work of the United Nations, advance 
multilateral cooperation and promote world peace and 
development. I also wish to announce that China will 
join the new United Nations peacekeeping capabilities 
readiness system and has therefore decided to take the 
lead  in  setting  up  a  permanent  formed  peacekeeping 
police force and a standby peacekeeping force of 8,000 
troops. I also wish to announce that China will provide 
a total of $100 million of free military assistance to the 
African Union over the next five years to support the 
establishment  of  the  African  Standby  Force  and  the 
development  of  the  African  Capacity  for  Immediate 
Response to Crisis.
As the United Nations enters a new decade, let us 
unite even more closely to forge a new partnership of 
win-win cooperation and a community of shared future 
for  humankind.  Let  the  vision  of  beating  our  swords 
into  ploughshares  and  building  a  war-free  world  with 
lasting peace take root in our hearts. Let the aspirations 
for development, prosperity, fairness and justice spread 
throughout the world.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the People’s Republic of 
China for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Xi Jinping, President of the People’s Republic 
of China, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn Al 
Hussein, King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  King  of  the  Hashemite  Kingdom  of 
Jordan.
His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein, King 
of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Majesty King Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein, King of the 
Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
King Abdullah: It is an honour to stand before the 
General Assembly. I am here representing Jordan as a 
God-fearing and God-loving human being. I am here as 
a father who wants his children, like all others, to live 
in a compassionate and more peaceful world.
Such  a  future  is  under  serious  threat  from  the 
khawarij,  the  outlaws  of  Islam,  who  operate  globally 
today.  They  target  religious  differences,  hoping  to 
kill  cooperation  and  compassion  among  the  billions 
of people of all faiths and communities, who live side 
by side in our many countries. Those outlaw gangs use 
suspicion  and  ignorance  to  expand  their  own  power. 
And worse still is the free hand they grant themselves 
to distort the word of God in order to justify the most 
atrocious of crimes.
All  of  us  here  are  united  by  our  conviction  that 
those forces must be defeated. But before we ask how 
to achieve that objective, let us ask the following. What 
if they were not defeated? What would our world look 
like?  Can  we  tolerate  a  future  where  mass  murder, 
public beheadings, kidnapping and slavery are common 
practices? Where the persecution of communities is the 
law?  Where  humankind’s  cultural  treasures  that  have 
15-29265
21/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
been preserved for thousands of years are systematically 
destroyed?
us and being kind to our own children, each one of us 
can do something to reflect the spirit of our Creator.
I  have  called  this  crisis  a  third  world  war,  and  I 
believe  we  must  respond  with  equal  intensity.  That 
means global collective action on all fronts. But let us 
make no mistake; the more important war is the one we 
wage on the battlegrounds of the heart, the soul and the 
mind.  And,  in  this  fight,  all  countries  and  all  people 
must come together.
Jordan has been proud to work with Member States 
and  their  countries  to  spearhead  global  initiatives  for 
tolerance and dialogue. That has been reflected in the 
Amman Message and A Common Word, and, four years 
ago, we helped to initiate the World Interfaith Harmony 
Week,  an  annual  United  Nations  event  to  focus  all 
people,  especially  young  people,  on  the  essentials  of 
tolerance and coexistence. Those efforts must continue, 
and the United Nations has a central role. But all of us, 
as individuals and as leaders, must help build the road 
ahead. Let me suggest seven essential steps.
First,  let  us  get  back  to  basics  and  to  the  essence 
and  shared  spirit  of  our  respective  faiths  and  creeds. 
It  seems  to  me  that  we  can  sometimes  lose  sight  of 
the  larger  picture.  What  separates  human  beings  is 
minuscule, compared to what we hold in common: deep 
values of love, peace, justice and compassion.
(spoke in Arabic)
“And  My  mercy  embraces  all  things.”  (The 
Holy Koran, VII:156)
(spoke in English)
Secondly, let us change our tone. On my travels not 
long ago, I saw a roadside sign that said, “Fear God”. A 
few miles down the road, was another, saying the same 
thing, then another and then a final one, saying, “... Or 
you will go to Hell”, and I asked myself when and how 
did fear and intimidation creep so insidiously into our 
conversations, when there is so much more to be said 
about the love of God. Most people may think they have 
nothing  to  do  with  the  hate  expressed  by  extremists. 
But  our  world  is  also  threatened  when  violence,  fear 
and  anger  dominate  our  discourse,  whether  in  school 
lessons, weekly sermons or international affairs.
Thirdly,  let  us  act  upon  our  beliefs.  And  here,  I 
mean  more  than  praying,  fasting  or  zakat  —  giving 
alms. I mean integrating our values into every part of 
our daily lives and every hour of every day. By loving 
our neighbour, showing respect to those different from 
Fourthly, let us amplify the voice of moderation. It 
is one of the greatest ironies of our time that extremist 
voices use advanced media to propagate ignorant ideas. 
We must not let our screens, airwaves, broadband and 
social  media  be  monopolized  by  those  who  pose  the 
greatest danger to our world. We too must populate our 
media  and,  more  important,  the  minds  of  our  young 
people, with the purity and power of moderation.
Fifthly, let us recognize deceit. When we examine 
the motives of those outlaws, the khawarij, and, indeed, 
the motives of extremists on all sides, we find hunger 
for  power,  control  of  people,  of  money  and  of  land. 
They use religion as a mask. Is there a worse crime than 
twisting  God’s  word  to  promote  one’s  own  interests? 
Is  there  a  more  despicable  act  than  feeding  on  the 
vulnerable and innocent, to recruit them to one’s ranks? 
In  the  global  Muslim  community  —  1.7  billion  good 
men and women, one quarter of humankind — today’s 
outlaw gangs are nothing but a drop in the ocean. But 
a  drop  of  venom  can  poison  a  well.  We  must  protect 
the purity of our faith from worldly contamination. As 
Muslims, this is our fight, as it is our duty.
Sixthly,  by  all  means,  let  us  be  intolerant  of 
intolerance. Extremists rely on the apathy of moderates. 
But  moderation  does  not  mean  accepting 
those 
who  trample  on  others  and  rejecting  all  those  who 
differ.  Today’s  global  fight  is  not  between  peoples, 
communities or religions. It is between all moderates of 
all faiths against all extremists, in all religions. Leaders 
of every country, every belief and every neighbourhood 
need to take a clear and public stand against intolerance 
of any kind. That includes respecting all places where 
God is worshipped, whether mosque, church, synagogue 
or temple.
And nothing can be more important and can have 
more  impact  in  framing  this  respect  and  coexistence 
than  Jerusalem.  The  Hashemite  custodianship  of 
Jerusalem’s Islamic and Christian holy sites is a sacred 
duty, and we join Muslims and Christians everywhere 
in  rejecting  threats  to  the  holy  places  and  the  Arab 
character of that Holy City.
Lastly,  there  is  hyperconnectivity.  In  our  era, 
connectivity  defines  how  we  live  and  interact  in  our 
work,  our  communities,  our  schools  and  our  lives. 
Only  a  few  years  ago,  we  were  introduced  to  the 
Internet of computers; now, we talk about the Internet 
22/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
of  things.  But  over  them  all  must  be  the  Internet  of 
humankind — a hyperconnection, bringing us together 
in  collective  consciousness  and  common  cause.  By 
gathering  here  today,  we  acknowledge  that  the  power 
of working together far exceeds any individual effort. 
Our great General Assembly must address urgent world 
issues: sustainable and inclusive development that can 
deliver more opportunities, especially to young people, 
and peaceful, political solutions to regional crises.
It  is  the  world’s  obligation  to  find  solutions 
and  provide  relief  for  the  millions  of  refugees  in  my 
region.  Today,  we  are  still  facing  huge  shortfalls, 
cuts  and  threats  to  vital  United  Nations  programmes 
and agencies, including the United Nations Relief and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East, 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Refugees and the World Food Programme.
Today, we are haunted by the images of thousands 
of  refugees  on  the  shores  and  borders  of  Europe, 
seeking hope, far away from their homeland. In Jordan, 
we  have  been  faced  with  that  challenge  since  the 
beginning of the Syrian crisis. Today, Syrian refugees 
alone constitute 20 per cent of my country’s population.
We have been relieving the international community 
of a significant part of the burden of that humanitarian 
disaster  since  the  beginning.  Support  to  our  country 
has been a small fraction of the cost we have endured. 
It is high time for the international community to act 
collectively in facing this unprecedented humanitarian 
crisis and to provide support to countries such as Jordan 
and  Lebanon,  which  have  been  carrying  the  brunt  of 
that burden over the past four years.
In all these areas, we must act, and act collectively, 
for  the  future  of  our  world.  And  connectivity  is  key. 
The  values  we  share  —  equality,  compassion  and 
hope — need to be connected to everything we do. And 
we must keep ourselves connected to each other, for the 
good of all. These bonds are the power and promise of 
our  United  Nations.  Here,  together,  we  can  and  must 
create  the  future  our  people  need —  a  safer,  stronger 
world of coexistence, inclusion, shared prosperity and 
peace. Seven steps can bring us closer to our destination. 
God  willing,  our  countries  and  peoples  will  achieve 
those seven steps and many more.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank His Majesty the King of the Hashemite 
Kingdom of Jordan for the statement he has just made.
His Majesty Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein, King of the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Vladimir Putin, President of the 
Russian Federation
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Russian Federation.
into 
Mr.  Vladimir  Putin,  President  of  the  Russian 
Federation,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Vladimir  Putin,  President  of  the 
Russian  Federation,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
(spoke 
President  Putin 
in  Russian):  The 
seventieth anniversary of the United Nations is a good 
opportunity  both  to  consider  our  history  and  to  talk 
about our collective future. In 1945, the countries that 
had  defeated  Nazism  united  their  efforts  to  lay  firm 
foundations for the post-war world order. I should point 
out here that the key decisions about the principles for 
guiding cooperation among States and the creation of 
the  United  Nations  were  made  in  our  country,  at  the 
meeting in Yalta of the leaders of the coalition against 
Hitler. The Yalta system emerged out of genuine travail, 
paid for with tens of millions of lives and the two world 
wars that engulfed the world in the twentieth century. 
And  in  all  fairness  to  it,  it  has  helped  humankind 
traverse  the  turbulent  and  sometimes  dramatic  events 
of  the  past  seven  decades  and  has  spared  the  world 
major cataclysms.
The United Nations is an Organization unique in its 
legitimacy,  representativeness  and  universality.  True, 
it  has  recently  been  much  criticized  for  its  perceived 
insufficient  effectiveness  and  for  decision-making  on 
fundamental issues that can be stymied by insuperable 
differences,  particularly  among  members  of 
the 
Security  Council.  I  would  like  to  point  out,  however, 
that  over  the  70  years  of  the  existence  of  the  United 
Nations there have always been disagreements, and the 
right to the veto has always been exercised — by the 
United States, Great Britain, France, China, the Soviet 
Union and later Russia, alike. That is entirely natural 
for  such  a  diverse  and  representative  Organization. 
When  the  United  Nations  was  established,  there  was 
15-29265
23/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
no  suggestion  that  unanimity  would  reign.  Indeed, 
the  essence  of  the  Organization  consists  in  seeking 
and  reaching  compromise.  Its  strength  lies  in  taking 
account of different opinions and points of view. The 
decisions  that  are  discussed  in  the  United  Nations 
are  either  adopted  as  resolutions  or  they  are  not.  As 
the  diplomats  say,  they  either  go  through  or  do  not 
go  through.  Any  action  on  the  part  of  any  State  that 
bypasses that procedure is illegitimate and runs counter 
to the Charter of the United Nations and in defiance of 
international law.
We all know that a single dominating power centre 
emerged  in  the  world  after  the  end  of  the  Cold  War. 
Those who found themselves at the top of that pyramid 
were tempted to think that if they were so strong and 
exceptional,  they  knew  better  than  anyone  else  what 
should be done. As a consequence, they thought, why 
should  they  bother  with  the  United  Nations,  which 
instead  of  automatically  sanctioning  and  legitimizing 
necessary decisions frequently just stands in the way or, 
as we say, gets underfoot? It has become commonplace 
to  say  that  the  Organization,  as  originally  conceived, 
has become obsolete and that its historical mission has 
been accomplished.
The  world  is  changing,  of  course,  and  the  United 
Nations must keep up with that natural transformation. 
Russia  is  ready  to  work  on  that,  based  on  a  broad 
consensus  with  all  its  partners,  but  we  consider 
efforts  to  undermine  the  authority  and  legitimacy  of 
the  United  Nations  to  be  extremely  dangerous.  They 
could lead to the collapse of the entire architecture of 
international  relations.  Then  we  would  indeed  be  left 
with  no  rules  beyond  might  is  right.  That  would  be  a 
world ruled by selfishness rather than collective effort; 
a  world  ever  more  dictatorial  and  less  about  equality, 
genuine  democracy  and  freedom;  a  world  where  an 
ever-growing  number  of  de  facto  protectorates  and 
externally  controlled  territories  would  replace  truly 
independent States. 
What,  after  all,  is  State  sovereignty,  about  which 
some of our colleagues have already spoken? More than 
anything it is about freedom — the freedom of every 
person,  people  or  State  to  choose  their  own  destiny. 
And by the way, the issue of the so-called legitimacy 
of State power also falls into this category. We should 
never play with words or manipulate them. Every term 
of international law and international affairs should be 
clear and transparent and possess uniformly understood 
criteria.
We  are  all  different,  and  we  should  respect  that. 
Nobody  is  obliged  to  conform  once  and  for  all  to  a 
single model of development that someone has deemed 
to be the only right one. We should all remember what 
we  have  learned  from  past  experience.  For  example, 
we remember instances from the history of the Soviet 
Union.  Attempts  to  export  social  experiments  and 
to  push  for  change  in  one  country  or  another  based 
on  our  own  ideological  positions  often  led  to  tragic 
consequences and to deterioration rather than progress.
It seems, however, that no one learns from others’ 
mistakes.  They  just  repeat  them,  and  the  export  of 
revolutions, this time so-called democratic revolutions, 
continues.  We  have  only  to  look  at  the  situation  in 
the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  which  the  speaker 
before me discussed. Certainly, the political and social 
problems  of  the  region  have  been  brewing  for  a  long 
time, and people there naturally wanted change. 
But  how  has  it  actually  turned  out?  Instead  of 
reforming Government institutions, aggressive foreign 
interference has resulted in the abrupt destruction of the 
very fabric of life. Instead of the triumph of democracy 
and  progress  we  got  violence,  poverty  and  social 
catastrophe.  And  human  rights,  including  the  right 
to  life,  are  simply  ignored.  One  cannot  help  wanting 
to ask those who created this situation if they at least 
realize now what they have done. But I am afraid the 
question would go unanswered, because policies based 
on complacency and a belief in one’s exceptionality and 
impunity are never abandoned.
It is now obvious that the power vacuum that has 
appeared in a number of the countries of the Middle East 
and North Africa has led to the emergence of areas of 
anarchy that immediately began to fill with extremists 
and terrorists. Tens of thousands of militants are now 
fighting  under  the  banners  of  the  so-called  Islamic 
State. They include former Iraqi servicemen who were 
thrown out into the street in the wake of the invasion 
of Iraq in 2003. Another supplier of recruits is Libya, 
whose  statehood  was  destroyed  as  a  result  of  a  gross 
violation  of  Security  Council  resolution  1973  (2011). 
And  now  members  of  the  so-called  moderate  Syrian 
opposition,  supported  by  the  West,  are  joining  the 
radical ranks. First they arm and train them, and now 
they are defecting to the so-called Islamic State. Indeed, 
the Islamic State itself did not come from nowhere. It, 
too,  was  initially  forged  as  a  tool  against  undesirable 
secular regimes. Having established a foothold in Syria 
and  Iraq,  the  Islamic  State  is  actively  expanding  into 
24/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
other regions, with the aim of dominating the Islamic 
world, and not just there. It is clearly not limiting itself 
to those plans alone.
The  situation  is  more  than  dangerous.  In  such 
circumstances,  it  is  hypocritical  and  irresponsible  to 
make loud declarations about the threat of international 
terrorism  while  turning  a  blind  eye  to  the  channels 
that are financing and supporting terrorists, including 
through  the  proceeds  of  drug  trafficking  and  illicit 
trading  in  oil  and  arms,  or  to  attempt  to  manipulate 
extremist  groups  and  make  them  do  one’s  bidding  in 
order to achieve one’s own political goals, in the hope 
of  dealing  with  them  —  or,  to  put  it  more  simply, 
liquidating them — later. What I have to say to those 
people is this: Sirs, while you are certainly dealing with 
cruel  people,  they  are  in  no  way  stupid  or  primitive. 
They  are  just  as  smart  as  you,  and  you  cannot  yet 
tell  who  is  using  whom  for  his  own  ends.  The  recent 
information on the transfer of arms to the terrorists by 
that moderate opposition itself is the best proof of that.
We believe that any attempt to flirt with terrorists, 
let  alone  arm  them,  is  not  just  short-sighted;  it  is 
incendiary.  It  could  result  in  a  dramatic  increase 
in  the  global  terrorist  threat  and  its  critical  spread 
to  new  regions,  especially  considering  the  fact  that 
militants  from  many  countries,  including  Europe,  are 
passing  through  Islamic  State  training  camps.  Nor, 
unfortunately, I must admit frankly to my colleagues, is 
Russia an exception. We cannot allow such criminals, 
who  have  already  smelled  blood,  to  return  home  and 
continue  their  evil  deeds  there.  We  do  not  want  that. 
And after all, would anyone want that?
Russia  has  always  been  firm  and  consistent  in 
opposing  terrorism  in  all  its  forms.  Today  we  are 
providing  military  and  technical  assistance  to  Iraq, 
Syria and other countries of the region that are fighting 
terrorist  groups.  We  think  it  is  an  enormous  mistake 
to refuse to cooperate with the Syrian authorities and 
the  State  armed  forces,  who  are  valiantly  combating 
terrorism face to face. Finally, we should acknowledge 
that  no  one  except  President  Al-Assad’s  Government 
armed forces and the Kurdish militia is truly fighting the 
Islamic State and other terrorist organizations in Syria. 
We are aware of all the problems and contradictions in 
the region, but we must nonetheless be realistic.
I  feel  obliged  to  point  out  that  Russia’s  honest 
and  straightforward  approach  has  recently  been  used 
as  a  pretext  for  accusing  us  of  harbouring  increasing 
ambitions  —  as  if  the  people  saying  that  have  no 
ambitions  at  all  themselves.  But  the  real  issue  is  not 
Russia’s  ambitions  but  the  fact  that  we  can  no  longer 
tolerate  the  current  state  of  affairs  in  the  world.  In 
reality, we are proposing that we should be guided by 
our shared values and interests rather than ambitions. 
We  should  unite  our  efforts  to  address,  on  the  basis 
of  international  law,  these  new  problems  we  face 
and  create  a  genuinely  broad  international  coalition 
against  terrorism.  Like  the  coalition  against  Hitler,  it 
could unite all the diverse forces willing to resolutely 
resist those who, like the Nazis, sow evil and hatred of 
humankind.
And,  naturally,  Muslim  countries  should  play 
a  key  role  in  that  coalition.  Not  only  is  the  Islamic 
State a direct threat to them, it also desecrates one of 
the  world’s  greatest  religions  with  its  bloody  crimes. 
The  militants’  ideologists  make  a  mockery  of  Islam 
and pervert its true humanistic values. In that regard, 
I would also like to address Muslim spiritual leaders. 
Their  authority  and  tutelage  are  vital  at  this  moment. 
It  is  essential  to  prevent  those  whom  militants  try  to 
recruit  from  making  hasty  decisions.  And  those  who 
have been deceived and who by force of circumstance 
have ended up in the terrorists’ ranks must be helped to 
find a path back to normal life, lay down their arms and 
cease their fratricide.
In the next few days Russia, as the current President 
of the Security Council, will convene a ministerial-level 
meeting aimed at conducting a comprehensive analysis 
of  threats  in  the  Middle  East.  First,  we  propose  to 
discuss the possibility of agreeing on a draft resolution 
designed  to  coordinate  the  actions  of  all  the  forces 
confronting the Islamic State and other terrorist groups. 
Once again, that coordination should be based on the 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
We  believe  that  the  international  community  can 
develop  a  comprehensive  strategy  for  the  political 
stabilization and social and economic recovery of the 
Middle  East.  Then  there  would  be  no  need  to  build 
camps for refugees. The flood of people forced to leave 
their homelands has literally engulfed first the country’s 
neighbours and now Europe. Now they number in the 
hundreds of thousands, but they could soon be millions. 
This is a great and tragic new migration of peoples, and 
a harsh lesson for all of us, including Europe.
the 
refugees 
unquestionably  need  our  compassion  and  support. 
However,  any  fundamental  solution  to  the  problem 
must  involve  restoring  statehood  where  it  has  been 
I  would 
stress 
that 
like 
to 
15-29265
25/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
destroyed,  strengthening  Government 
institutions 
where they still exist or are being re-established, and 
providing  comprehensive  military,  economic  and 
material assistance to countries in difficulties — and, 
of course, to those who have not abandoned their homes 
despite  all  their  ordeals.  Naturally,  any  assistance  to 
sovereign  States  can  and  must  be  offered  rather  than 
imposed,  and  only  in  accordance  with  the  United 
Nations Charter. In other words, everything being done 
or to be done in this area in accordance with the norms 
of  international  law  must  be  backed  by  our  universal 
Organization,  and  anything  contravening  the  Charter 
must  be  rejected.  More  than  anything,  I  believe  it  is 
vital to help restore Government institutions in Libya, 
support  the  new  Government  of  Iraq  and  provide 
comprehensive assistance to the legitimate Government 
of Syria.
Ensuring  peace  and  regional  and  global  stability 
remains  the  key  task  of  the  international  community, 
with  the  United  Nations  at  its  helm.  In  our  view, 
that  means  creating  a  space  of  equal  and  indivisible 
security that is not for the select few, but for everyone. 
Yes,  it  is  a  complex,  difficult  and  time-consuming 
task,  but  there  are  no  alternatives  to  it.  However,  for 
some  of  our  colleagues  the  Cold  War  bloc  mindset 
and  desire  to  assimilate  new  geopolitical  areas  are 
still  paramount.  They  began  by  continuing  to  expand 
NATO  —  and  one  wonders  why,  with  the  Warsaw 
Pact bloc no longer in existence and the Soviet Union  
broken up. And yet NATO is not only still there; like 
its  military  infrastructure,  it  is  still  expanding.  Then 
they offered post-Soviet countries a false choice — to 
be  either  with  the  West  or  the  East.  Sooner  or  later, 
that  logic  of  confrontation  was  bound  to  turn  into  a 
serious  geopolitical  crisis,  and  that  is  what  happened 
in Ukraine, where the people’s dissatisfaction with the 
authorities was exploited and a military coup provoked 
from outside. A civil war erupted as a result.
We  firmly  believe  that  we  can  end  the  bloodshed 
and find a way out of this deadlock only through full 
implementation, in good faith, of the Minsk agreements 
of 12 February. Ukraine’s territorial integrity cannot be 
ensured  by  threats  and  force  of  arms,  but  it  must  be 
done.  What  is  needed  is  respect  for  the  choice  of  the 
people  of  the  Donbas  region,  genuine  consideration 
of  their  interests  and  rights  and  their  engagement  in 
devising  the  key  elements  of  the  country’s  political 
structure, in line with the Minsk agreements that will 
guarantee that Ukraine can develop as a civilized State 
and an essential link in the construction of a common 
area  of  security  and  economic  cooperation  in  both 
Europe and Eurasia.
I have a reason for speaking of a common area for 
economic cooperation. Only recently, it seemed that in 
the  economic  sphere,  where  the  objective  laws  of  the 
market apply, we would learn to live without dividing 
lines and to act on the basis of transparent rules, jointly 
devised,  including  the  principles  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization (WTO), which stand for freedom of trade 
and investment and open competition. Today, however, 
unilateral sanctions that circumvent the United Nations 
Charter have almost become the norm. They not only 
serve  political  aims,  they  act  as  a  way  of  pushing 
competitors out of the market.
I would like to note another sign of growing economic 
selfishness.  A  number  of  countries  have  chosen  to 
create  closed,  exclusive  economic  associations,  with 
negotiations  conducted  behind  closed  doors  and  in 
secret, undisclosed to their own citizens and business 
communities. Nor do they inform other countries and 
Governments whose interests may be affected. Perhaps 
they want all of us to be left with the fait accompli that 
the rules of the game have been changed in favour of a 
small group, and without the participation of the WTO. 
That  could  completely  unbalance  the  trade  system 
and  lead  to  the  disintegration  of  the  global  economic 
environment.  These  issues  affect  the  interests  of  all 
States  and  influence  the  future  of  the  entire  world 
economy.  That  is  why  we  propose  discussing  them 
within the United Nations, the WTO and the Group of 
20.
In  opposition 
to  a  policy  of  exclusiveness, 
Russia  proposes  harmonizing 
regional  economic 
projects  through  what  is  known  as  the  integration  of 
integrations,  based  on  the  universal  and  transparent 
rules  of  international  trade.  One  example  is  our  plan 
to  link  the  Eurasian  Economic  Union  with  China’s 
initiative  in  creating  a  Silk  Road  economic  belt.  And 
we continue to believe the possibility of harmonizing 
integration  processes  within  the  Eurasian  Economic 
Union and the European Union to be very promising.
Among  the  issues  affecting  the  future  of  all 
humankind is the challenge of global climate change. 
It  is  in  our  interests  to  ensure  that  we  get  results  at 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change to be held in 
Paris in December. As part of our national contribution, 
by 2030 we plan to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions 
to  between  70  and  75  per  cent  of  their  1990  levels.  I 
26/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
suggest, however, that we should take a broader view of 
this issue. By establishing quotas on harmful emissions 
or taking other steps that by their very nature are still 
only tactical, we may mitigate the problem for a certain 
amount of time, but fundamentally we will not solve it.
We  need  a  completely  different  approach.  We 
should  be  focusing  on  introducing  fundamentally 
new technologies, inspired by nature, that rather than 
damaging the environment will be in harmony with it 
and will enable us to restore the balance between the 
biosphere  and  the  technosphere  that  human  activities 
have destroyed. It is indeed a challenge on a planetary 
scale,  but  I  am  confident  that  humankind  has  the 
intellectual  wherewithal  to  respond  to  it.  We  must 
unite  our  efforts,  most  of  all  those  States  possessing 
solid  research  capacities  and  fundamental  scientific 
achievements. We propose convening a special forum 
under  United  Nations  auspices  for  a  comprehensive 
consideration  of  the  issues  related  to  the  depletion  of 
natural resources, the destruction of habitats and climate 
change. Russia is ready to be one of the organizers of 
such a forum.
the  Chairman  of 
Mr. Balói (Mozambique), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
On 10 January 1946, the General Assembly of the 
United  Nations  gathered  in  London  to  begin  work  on 
its  first  session.  Eduardo  Zuleta  Ángel,  a  Colombian 
diplomat  and 
the  Preparatory 
Commission,  opened  the  session  by  giving  what  I 
believe was a concise definition of the basic principles 
by  which  the  United  Nations  should  be  guided  in  its 
activities.  They  are  free  will,  disdain  for  scheming 
and  trickery,  and  a  spirit  of  cooperation.  Today  his 
words can be a guide for us all. Russia believes in the 
huge  potential  of  the  United  Nations  to  help  us  avoid 
a  new  global  confrontation  and  engage  in  strategic 
cooperation.  We  will  work  consistently  with  other 
countries  to  strengthen  the  central  coordinating  role 
of the United Nations. I am confident that together we 
can make the world a stable and safe place and ensure 
conditions conducive to the development of every State 
and nation.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Russian 
Federation for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Vladimir  Putin,  President  of  the  Russian 
Federation,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Ms. Park Geun-hye, President of the 
Republic of Korea
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Korea.
Ms.  Park  Geun-hye,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Korea,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations Her Excellency Ms. Park Geun-hye, President 
of the Republic of Korea, and to invite her to address 
the Assembly.
President  Park  Geun-hye  (spoke  in  Korean; 
English  interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation): 
I  would  first  like  to  congratulate  the  United  Nations 
on  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  its  founding,  and 
Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, former Speaker of the Danish 
Parliament, on his election to preside over the General 
Assembly at its seventieth session.
The  United  Nations,  established  70  years  ago 
after the calamities of war, has been a beacon of hope 
for  people  all  over  the  world,  thanks  to  the  trust  and 
hope  engendered  by  the  spirit  of  the  United  Nations 
that  made  people  its  focus,  despite  the  constraints 
of  realpolitik.  And  despite  the  many  challenges  and 
criticisms directed at it, the United Nations has made 
tremendous  contributions  to  promoting  the  common 
good of humankind. As we speak, the Blue Helmets of 
its  peacekeeping  operations,  themselves  a  symbol  of 
peace, are working to maintain international peace and 
security.
The adoption in 1948 of the Universal Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  was  a  milestone  in  the  history  of 
human  rights,  while  the  establishment  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  the  International  Criminal  Court 
marked conspicuous progress towards institutionalizing 
the  protection  of  human  rights.  The  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  launched  in  2000,  have  been 
the  basis  for  the  most  successful  poverty  eradication 
campaign in the history of the United Nations, lifting 
hundreds of millions out of extreme poverty.
And few places in the world have seen the efforts 
of  the  United  Nations  make  as  much  difference  as 
the  Republic  of  Korea.  This  year  also  has  special 
meaning for my country, for it is one that brings both 
the  joy  of  marking  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  our 
liberation  and  the  anguish  attendant  on  the  arrival 
15-29265
27/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
of  the  seventieth  year  of  our  division.  In  the  past  70 
years,  the  Republic  of  Korea  has  risen  above  the 
ordeals  of  partition  and  war  and  gone  on  to  achieve 
industrialization  and  democratization  simultaneously. 
The  United  Nations  has  stood  with  the  Republic  of 
Korea  from  the  founding  of  our  Government  to  this 
very day. The values and ideals upheld by the United 
Nations — global peace, the promotion of human rights 
and  shared  prosperity  —  have  embodied  the  vision 
of  the  Republic  of  Korea  itself.  And  the  future  that 
Korea envisions is aligned with the aspirations of the 
United Nations. The challenges we have overcome and 
the  successes  we  have  achieved  over  the  years  are  a 
testament to the possibilities for success of the goal of 
the United Nations for a better world.
Notwithstanding these efforts of the United Nations 
and the international community, humankind today is 
confronted  with  multiple  simultaneous  challenges  in 
all corners of the world. Today, there is no shortage of 
conflicts, large and small, or of extremely violent civil 
wars.  The  surge  in  extremist  groups  that  the  Islamic 
State in Iraq and the Levant represents is now a global 
concern that needs to be urgently addressed. A single 
photo of Aylan Kurdi captures how such instability is 
unleashing  the  greatest  humanitarian  refugee  crisis 
since the Second World War. Global climate change is 
threatening  the  lives  of  even  our  future  generations; 
Ebola  and  other 
infectious  diseases  are  causing 
countless victims and awakening us to the importance 
of health security.
Today,  no  one  in  our  global  village  is  free  from 
these  global  and  transnational  threats  and  challenges. 
As  the  international  order  experiences  these  tectonic 
shifts, now, more than ever, is the time for the United 
Nations to once again light up the beacon of hope and 
to illuminate the path to promoting international peace 
and  security,  human  rights  and  collective  prosperity 
throughout  the  world.  Above  all,  the  international 
community  should  rally  around  the  United  Nations 
and return to the founding spirit of the Charter of the 
Organization, which, in its Preamble calls for faith “in 
the dignity and worth of the human person”. We must 
build a United Nations that is strong, we must carry the 
banner  of  renewed  multilateralism,  and  we  must  bear 
in  mind  that  the  value  of  human  dignity  is  based  on 
freedom, human rights, justice and the rule of law.
As  a  nation  that  puts  the  peace  and  happiness 
of  our  global  village  at  the  centre  of  its  diplomatic 
endeavours, we will spare no effort in supporting the 
United Nations as it addresses the challenges faced by 
the international community, and we will highlight the 
ideals  of  humanism  and  the  need  to  live  up  to  those 
ideals. The drive by the United Nations to produce a new 
post-2015 development agenda is also anchored in this 
people-centred spirit. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1), adopted at the Summit 
for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda 
three  days  ago  (see  A/70/PV.4),  has  set  a  historic 
milestone on the road to a better world that leaves no 
one behind.
Just half a century ago, the Republic of Korea was 
among the poorest countries in the world. Today, it is 
one of the world’s top 10 economies. In the course of 
achieving  this  “miracle  on  the  Han  River”,  we  drew 
immense strength from the assistance and development 
cooperation  of  the  international  community.  In  this 
regard,  I  believe  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  will  be  a  potential  stepping  stone  to  a 
second and third miracle around the world.
The  Republic  of  Korea,  in  its  capacity  as  the 
current President of the Economic and Social Council, 
which will be playing a key role in the implementation 
of the development agenda, will actively contribute to 
achieving  the  development  goals.  Along  the  way,  the 
Republic of Korea will proactively share its development 
experiences  and  know-how  with  the  international 
community.  In  the  meantime,  we  have  been  sharing 
with  the  developing  countries  the  experiences  of  the 
Saemaul  Undong,  which  served  as  a  springboard  for 
my country’s leap forward. I believe that the Saemaul 
Undong  can  maximize  the  utility  of  development 
cooperation  with  developing  countries,  given  that  it 
ignites  a  sense  of  confidence  and  ownership  through 
competition and incentives and lays the groundwork for 
self-help  in  communities  with  the  engagement  of  the 
local people.
Two  days  ago,  we  and 
the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  and  the  Organization  for 
Economic  Cooperation  and  Development  hosted  a 
special high-level side event on the Saemaul Undong and 
agreed to work together to help eradicate poverty and 
build  transformative  local  communities  in  developing 
countries. We will further expand our efforts so that the 
Saemaul Undong can progress as a new paradigm for 
rural development in developing countries.
Another 
important  driving  force  behind  our 
economic development is the human talent that has been 
nurtured  through  unsparing  investment.  Education 
28/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
is  the  key  element  of  the  sustainable  development 
agenda  that  helps  to  empower  the  individual  and 
assist countries in attaining national development. We 
have  been  actively  engaging  in  the  Global  Education 
First  Initiative  as  a  champion  country.  We  hosted  the 
World  Education  Forum  2015  with  UNESCO  last 
May, which culminated in the adoption of the Incheon 
Declaration  and  set  the  global  education  goals  to  be 
achieved  by  2030.  Going  forward,  the  Republic  of 
Korea is determined to continue its efforts in the area 
of  education.  In  particular,  we  will  continue  to  work 
with UNESCO to spread global citizenship education.
Next, Korea will also play a strong role in reinforcing 
global  health  security.  In  addition  to  dispatching  a 
disaster  response  team  to  Sierra  Leone  to  help  fight 
Ebola late last year, at the second high-level meeting of 
the Global Health Security Agenda held in Seoul three 
weeks  ago,  the  Republic  of  Korea  announced  that  it 
would contribute $100 million over the next five years 
to  support  capacity-building  in  developing  countries. 
Moreover,  in  support  of  developing  countries  over 
the  next  five  years,  it  plans  to  pursue  projects  worth 
$200  million  under  the  Better  Life,  Better  Future 
Initiative.
Even as we were achieving rapid industrialization, 
we were expending a great deal of energy on ensuring the 
harmonious coexistence of humankind and nature. Our 
designation of 5 April as Arbor Day and the promotion 
of  forestation  has  led  to  a  twentyfold  increase  in  the 
number  of  trees  per  hectare  over  the  past  50  years. 
Since  1972,  we  have  designated  green  belt  zones  to 
curb  development  in  the  suburbs,  thereby  achieving 
harmony  between  the  environment  and  development. 
Today, we are channelling our environmental advocacy 
into joining the international community’s response to 
climate change.
Dealing  with  climate  change  is  an  urgent  task 
that  we  can  no  longer  afford  to  put  off.  It  is  critical 
that  the  international  community  produce  a  concrete 
and  meaningful  outcome  at  the  2015  session  of  the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
this 
December. We believe that addressing climate change 
is not a burden, but a fresh opportunity to create future 
drivers of growth through technological innovation.
Guided  by  that  belief,  the  Republic  of  Korea 
submitted  a 
intended  nationally 
determined contribution last June. It is considering how 
to  make  the  transition  to  a  low-carbon  economy  and 
forward-looking 
actively  participating  in  the  climate  negotiations.  In 
addition, as the host country of the Green Climate Fund 
Secretariat  and  the  Global  Green  Growth  Institute, 
Korea  will  continue  to  support  climate  action  by 
developing business models for new energy industries 
and sharing them with developing countries.
The  recent  United  Nations  review  of  peace 
operations,  peacebuilding  and  women  and  peace  and 
security in line with a changing security environment 
could not have come at a better time. As a country that 
experienced a devastating war and remains scarred to 
this day by partition, the Republic of Korea is acutely 
aware  of  the  importance  of  peace  and  is  strongly 
supporting the efforts of the United Nations to protect 
peace.
The President returned to the Chair.
To  date,  my  country  has  dispatched  some  13,500 
peacekeepers to 18 missions. Korean peacekeepers are 
held in high regard for their exemplary and community-
friendly  peacekeeping  and  reconstruction  activities. 
Following  consultations  with  the  United  Nations,  the 
Republic  of  Korea  plans  in  the  near  future  to  make 
additional deployments to peacekeeping missions, and 
we will strengthen our substantive partnership with the 
African Union.
To assist Syrian refugees fleeing the instability in 
the Middle East, the Republic of Korea will step up its 
humanitarian assistance to the relevant countries. It is 
also  focusing  its  attention  on  laying  the  groundwork 
for  peace  in  North-East  Asia,  a  region  that  continues 
to  experience  persistent  tensions  and  discord  among 
countries. In North-East Asia, we see a deepening of the 
Asia paradox phenomenon, where political and security 
cooperation  lags  behind  the  high  degree  of  economic 
interdependence among the countries in the region.
Recently,  moves 
that  could  potentially  have 
profound consequences for North-East Asia’s security 
order  have  led  to  misgivings  among  countries  in  the 
region.  Japan’s  new  defence  and  security  legislation 
should be implemented transparently and in a way that 
is conducive to friendly relations among the countries 
of  the  region  and  to  regional  peace  and  stability. 
Referring  to  North-East  Asia  with  its  continuing 
tensions and discord, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
once  described  the  lack  of  a  regional  cooperation 
mechanism as a “crucial missing link”. The reason that 
I proposed the Northeast Asia Peace and Cooperation 
Initiative  was  to  remedy  that  omission  and  thereby 
15-29265
29/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
create a virtuous cycle of trust-building and increased 
cooperation.
Consultations  among  the  countries  of  the  region 
are currently under way on a range of potential areas 
of  collaboration,  including  nuclear  security,  disaster 
management  and  health.  The  region’s  cumulative 
experience  in  those  areas  will  help  to  promote  global 
peace  and  cooperation.  Such  efforts  on  our  part  will 
also  help  to  resolve  the  North  Korean  nuclear  issue, 
which  poses  a  serious  threat  to  peace  in  North-East 
Asia and beyond. Resolving the North Korean nuclear 
issue should be accorded the highest priority if we are 
to  safeguard  the  integrity  of  the  international  nuclear 
non-proliferation regime and live up to the aspirations 
of humankind for a world without nuclear weapons.
A nuclear deal with Iran was reached in July. The 
international  community  should  now  focus  its  efforts 
on resolving the North Korean nuclear issue, which is 
the last remaining non-proliferation challenge.
In recent weeks, the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea once again publicly hinted at further acts of 
provocation  that  would  violate  the  terms  of  Security 
Council  resolutions.  That  would  not  only  spoil  the 
mood  for  the  inter-Korean  dialogue—which  took  so 
long  to  create—but  would  also  undermine  the  efforts 
of  the  countries  participating  in  the  Six-Party  Talks 
to  reopen  denuclearization  talks.  The  Government  of 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  would  do 
well  to  choose  reform  and  openness,  over  additional 
provocations, and to endeavour to free the people from 
hardship.  Pushing  ahead  with  provocations,  including 
its  nuclear  development  programme,  will  undermine 
the values of world peace espoused by the international 
community and the United Nations. If the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  resolutely  gives  up  its 
nuclear  ambitions  and  chooses  the  path  of  openness 
and cooperation, the Republic of Korea will work with 
the international community to actively support North 
Korea  in  developing  its  economy  and  improving  the 
quality of life of its people.
Over  the  course  of  the  past  10  years,  the  United 
Nations has made significant progress, not least in terms 
of  protecting  human  rights  and  advancing  freedom. 
Member  States  formally  accepted  the  concept  of  the 
responsibility  to  protect  at  the  2005  United  Nations 
World  Summit,  and  legal  accountability  for  those 
involved in genocide was defined with the establishment 
of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  and 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  I  believe  that  we 
should further strengthen the responsibility to protect 
in  order  to  prevent  the  humanitarian  crises  our  world 
currently faces from deteriorating further.
Last  year,  at  this  very  rostrum,  I  stressed  that 
sexual  violence  against  women  during  armed 
conflict,  whenever  or  wherever  it  may  take  place, 
is  unquestionably  a  violation  of  human  rights  and 
humanism. This year marks the fifteenth anniversary of 
the adoption of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) 
on  women  and  peace  and  security.  The  international 
community should do justice to the occasion by paying 
greater  attention  to  sexual  violence  against  women 
in  conflict  situations.  The  most  compelling  reason  is 
the fact that only a few of the victims of brutal sexual 
violence during the Second World War are alive today. 
Solutions that can bring healing to the hearts of those 
still  living  need  to  be  devised  promptly.  The  efforts 
made  by  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioners  of 
Human  Rights  and  Special  Rapporteurs  on  this  issue 
must not be allowed to come to nothing. There will be 
no unlocking the future if the past is not acknowledged.
We now hope that the spirit of enduring partnership 
with  humankind  that  the  United  Nations  embodies 
will resonate far and wide so that past wounds can be 
healed and a new future can unfold. One issue that has 
attracted  great  international  attention  in  the  realm  of 
human  rights  over  the  past  year  is  the  human  rights 
situation of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 
The  report  of  the  commission  of  inquiry  on  human 
rights  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
issued in February 2014, called for the active response 
of  the  international  community  to  address  the  human 
rights issue in that country. In the wake of the report’s 
release, not only did the Human Rights Council and the 
General  Assembly  adopt  relevant  resolutions,  but  no 
less an organ than the Security Council took up the issue 
for discussion. We once again call on the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea to heed the concerns of the 
international community and to take steps to improve 
its human rights situation.
Last year in the General Assembly (see A/69/PV.6), 
I  proposed  that  a  world  ecopeace  park  be  built  as  a 
space  in  which  to  dream  dreams  of  peace  within  the 
demilitarized  zone,  the  symbol  of  a  divided  Korean 
peninsula.  However,  the  recent  landmine  incident  in 
the  demilitarized  zone  brought  home  the  inescapable 
reality  that  peace  on  the  Korean  peninsula  can  be 
jeopardized  in  a  single  moment.  Fortunately,  the  two 
30/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
Koreas managed to reach an agreement on 25 August, 
following high-level talks, and are now at a juncture that 
may lead to a virtuous cycle of trust and cooperation. 
The  impetus  for  moving  this  new  virtuous  cycle 
forward will come from the faithful implementation of 
the 25 August accord and from the fulfilment by both 
Koreas of their commitment to take concrete steps for 
reconciliation and cooperation. We must no longer use 
political and military reasons as excuses for turning a 
blind eye to humanitarian issues, such as the reunion of 
separated families. I hope we can again embark on the 
path to regaining our common identity as one nation, 
through the official dialogue and the various exchanges 
provided for in the 25 August agreement.
Very shortly, on 3 October, the German people will 
be  celebrating  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  their 
reunification. In 1948, the United Nations blessed the 
birth of the Republic of Korea. Soon, I hope, the day will 
come when the entire world celebrates the reunification 
of  Korea.  Ending  the  seven-decade-long  history  of  a 
divided  Korean  Peninsula,  the  last  remaining  vestige 
of  the  Cold  War,  will  amount  to  nothing  less  than  a 
contribution to world peace.
Not  long  ago,  the  Republic  of  Korea  organized  a 
journey by rail called the Eurasia Friendship Express, 
which  passed  through  Russia  and  went  all  the  way 
to  Europe.  Those  who  made  the  journey  were  deeply 
touched and moved by it. However, the train was unable 
to  go  through  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea because the way was barred. I ask all those at the 
United Nations to lend us their strength in removing the 
barriers to unification and to make it possible for the 
spirit of peace to suffuse the Korean Peninsula.
A  peacefully  unified  Korea  will  be  a  thriving 
democratic  nation,  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
steadfast in upholding human rights. What is more, a 
unified  Korean  Peninsula,  both  as  a  symbol  of  peace 
in our global village and a new engine of growth, will 
contribute  greatly  to  peace  and  prosperity  in  North-
East Asia and beyond. I hope that the United Nations 
and  all  peace-loving  countries  will  work  together  so 
that  the  ideals  of  peace  and  human  dignity  dreamt  of 
by the founders of the United Nations 70 years ago can 
also be fulfilled through the unification of the Korean 
Peninsula.
On  this  grand  journey  towards  a  better  world, 
members  can  rest  assured  that  the  Republic  of  Korea 
will  be  a  companion  that  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international community can count on.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Korea 
for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Park  Geun-Hye,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Korea,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Hassan Rouhani, President of the 
Islamic Republic of Iran
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Rouhani  (spoke 
in  Farsi;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  am 
speaking on behalf of a great nation, which is mourning 
the loss of thousands of Muslim pilgrims and hundreds 
of its own citizens. Old, young, men and women, who 
had  come  together  in  the  grand  and  global  spiritual 
gathering  of  the  hajj,  unfortunately  fell  victim  to 
the  incompetence  and  mismanagement  of  those  in 
charge. Owing to that incompetence on the part of the 
latter,  even  the  missing  cannot  be  identified,  and  the 
expeditious return of the bodies of the deceased to their 
mourning families has been prevented.
The  magnitude  of  a  calamity  in  which  thousands 
of innocent people from the four corners of the world 
were  killed  or  injured  is  such  that  it  cannot  be  dealt 
with as though it were a natural disaster or a local issue. 
The pain and emotional distress inflicted on millions of 
Muslims is too great to be repaired by material means 
alone.  Public  opinion  demands  that  Saudi  Arabian 
officials promptly fulfil their international obligations 
and grant immediate consular access, with a view to the 
expeditious  identification  and  return  of  the  cherished 
bodies  and  remains.  Moreover,  arrangements  must  be 
made  for  there  to  be  an  independent  and  exhaustive 
inquiry  into  the  causes  of  that  disaster,  which  should 
include  proposals  for  ways  of  preventing  future 
recurrences.
15-29265
31/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
I  am  speaking  on  behalf  of  a  nation  that,  two 
years  ago,  voted  for  constructive  engagement  with 
the world, and I can now proudly announce that a new 
chapter  has  started  in  Iran’s  relations  with  the  world 
today.  Two  years  ago,  the  people  of  Iran,  voting  in  a 
competitive election, gave me a mandate to consolidate 
peace  and  constructive  engagement  with  the  world, 
while  pursuing  national  rights,  interests  and  security. 
That  national  will  manifested  itself  through  a  careful 
and clear diplomatic effort, which resulted in the Joint 
Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action,  concluded  between 
the Islamic Republic of Iran and six world Powers and 
the  European  Union.  That  Plan  of  Action  became  an 
international  instrument  when  the  Security  Council 
adopted  resolution  2231  (2015).  From  the  standpoint 
of  international  law,  the  instrument  sets  a  valuable 
precedent, as the two sides, rather than warring and then 
negotiating peace, engaged in a process of dialogue and 
mutual understanding before a conflict could break out.
I would like to take the opportunity to recognize the 
role of all the negotiators in achieving that agreement. 
We  had  opted  for  creating  a  new  environment,  while 
maintaining  our  principles,  and  we  succeeded  in  that 
undertaking. Where necessary, we moved forward, and, 
where necessary, we showed the courage for flexibility. 
For  each  point,  we  relied  extensively  on  international 
law and showcased the potential of an approach based 
on constructive dialogue.
The  key  to  a  successful  dialogue  is  remembering 
that any actor in the international system who pursues 
maximum  demands  and  fails  to  allow  space  for  the 
other side cannot hope to speak of peace, stability and 
development. As in commerce and economic activity, 
so  also  in  politics  and  international  relations:  the 
interests of both parties have to be taken into account, 
and  multilateralism  and  win-win  solutions  should 
provide the basis of engagement.
The  United  Nations  was  established  to  sustain 
global  peace  and  security  after  two  World  Wars. 
Unfortunately, it has to be acknowledged that, in most 
cases,  this  important  international  institution  has  not 
been  successful  or  effective.  This  time,  however,  the 
United Nations made the right decision, notwithstanding 
the  fact  that  it  earlier  had  adopted  unfair  resolutions 
against  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  imposed 
sanctions against the Iranian nation and Government, 
as  a  result  of  misunderstandings  and,  sometimes,  the 
overt hostility of some countries. But we believe that, 
as  an  old  Iranian  saying  goes,  the  sooner  the  harm 
stops,  the  more  benefit  you  will  reap.  Today  is  when 
that harm stopped.
Resolution 2231 (2015), despite several significant 
shortcomings,  is  an  important  development.  It  is  the 
basis for terminating sanctions and no longer adopting 
resolutions hostile to Iran. We consider the past conduct 
of  the  Security  Council  to  be  unfair  and  stress  that 
Iran,  owing  to  the  important  fatwa  of  its  leader  and 
its defence doctrine, has never harboured the intention 
of producing a nuclear weapon. Therefore, resolutions 
imposing sanctions against Iran were unjust and illegal. 
The sanctions imposed by the Security Council and the 
unilateral  sanctions  imposed  by  some  countries  were 
based on deluded and baseless allegations and created 
difficult conditions for our people. But those sanctions 
never  in  any  way  affected  the  policy  that  we  adopted 
and the approach that we took towards negotiations.
We  proved  in  those  negotiations  that  there  is 
nothing on Iran’s agenda other than logic, reason, ethics, 
and — where necessary — legitimate and resolute self-
defence against any kind of aggression. Consequently, 
the United States of America ultimately had no option 
but to choose negotiations and discussion over pressure 
and  sanctions.  Our  seven  countries  and  the  European 
Union  expended  considerable  time  and  diplomatic 
capital  in  those  negotiations  and  should  therefore 
exert their utmost efforts to protect and implement the 
agreement. We deem the compliance of all parties with 
their commitments to be the fundamental factor in the 
success of the implementation process of the negotiated 
agreement.
Parallel 
the  Joint 
Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action,  we  also  expect 
the  nuclear-weapon  States  to  take  the  necessary 
steps  to  fulfil  their  commitment  to  full  nuclear 
disarmament, based on article VI of the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  Furthermore, 
we expect them to play a positive role in the creation of 
a nuclear-weapon-free Middle East and not to allow the 
Zionist regime to remain an impediment to achieving 
that important objective.
to 
the 
implementation  of 
The  recently  concluded  nuclear  deal,  which  is  a 
brilliant  example  of  “victory  over  war”,  has  managed 
to  disperse  the  clouds  of  hostility  and  far-reaching 
tensions  in  the  Middle  East  —  and  even  perhaps  the 
spectre of another war. The deal can and should herald 
a  new  era  and  lead  to  positive  outcomes  with  regard 
to the establishment of sustainable peace and stability 
in the region. From our point of view, the agreed deal 
32/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
is  not  the  final  objective  but  a  development  that  can 
and  should  be  the  basis  for  further  arrangements  to 
come.  Considering  the  fact  that  the  deal  has  created 
an  objective  basis  for  implementation  and  has  set  an 
appropriate  model,  it  can  serve  as  the  grounds  for 
foundational change in the region.
Our  policy  is  to  continue  to  make  peace-seeking 
efforts  in  the  region,  based  on  the  same  win-win 
principle,  and  to  act  in  ways  that  would  enable  the 
region  —  and  the  world  —  to  benefit  from  the  new 
conditions.  We  will  take  this  opportunity  to  look  to 
the  future  and  stop  focusing  on  the  past  and  rebuild 
our  relationships  with  the  countries  in  the  region, 
particularly  our  neighbours,  on  the  basis  of  mutual 
respect and our common and collective interests.
Unfortunately,  the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa 
have  turned  into  one  of  the  world’s  most  turbulent 
regions.  With  the  continuation  and  intensification 
of  current  conditions,  the  turmoil  could  spread  to 
other  parts  of  the  world.  In  today’s  interconnected 
and  borderless  world,  countries  and  regions  are 
encountering great difficulty in protecting their borders 
and preventing the spread of insecurity and instability.
The  gravest  and  most  important  threat  to  the 
world today is the possibility of terrorist organizations 
becoming  terrorist  States.  We  would  consider  it 
unfortunate  for  national  uprisings  in  our  region  to  be 
hijacked by terrorists and for the destiny of nations to 
be  determined  by  arms  and  terror  rather  than  by  the 
ballot box. We propose that the fight against terrorism 
be incorporated into a binding international instrument 
and that no country be allowed to use terrorism for the 
purposes of interfering in the affairs of other countries. 
We are prepared to assist in the eradication of terrorism, 
in paving the way for democracy and in ensuring that 
arms do not dictate the course of events in the region.
As we assisted in the establishment of democracy 
in Iraq and Afghanistan, we are prepared to help bring 
about democracy in Syria and Yemen. We support the 
consolidation  of  power  through  elections,  rather  than 
through arms. We defend the rule of the majority that 
respects the rights of minorities.
Today, while safeguarding its historic and cultural 
heritage, Iran is looking to the future — not only the 
distant  future  but  also  the  near  future,  with  a  bright 
outlook  for  cooperation  and  coexistence.  I  say  to  all 
nations  and  Governments  that  we  will  not  forget  the 
past,  but  we  do  not  wish  to  live  in  the  past.  We  will 
not forget war and sanctions but we look to peace and 
development.  Through  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan 
of  Action,  we  were  not  just  seeking  a  nuclear  deal. 
We  wanted  to  suggest  a  new  and  constructive  way  of 
recreating  the  international  order,  an  order  based  on 
mutual respect, non-interference in the internal affairs 
of  others  and  sustained  cooperation  and  coexistence 
among the States Members of the United Nations.
To  build  a  peaceful  future,  we  must  learn  our 
lessons from the bitter past. We know that the only way 
to  bring  about  lasting  peace  is  through  development. 
Peace  without  development  can  only  be  a  time  out 
during which resentment and suspicion build. However, 
peace with development makes it possible for anger and 
resentment  to  dissipate  and  be  replaced  by  hope  and 
respect  for  others.  We  have  repeatedly  said  that  the 
only way to uproot terrorism in the Middle East is by 
targeting its underlying social, economic and cultural 
causes. Economic interactions can bring about lasting 
security and transform the region into a haven of peace 
and development.
After the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, Iran 
stands ready to show that the practical path to security 
and  stability  is  through  the  development  that  comes 
with  economic  engagement.  With  all  of  its  economic 
and cultural potential, Iran is well-positioned to become 
a hub for export-oriented investment. Iran is also eager 
to show that we can all choose a lasting peace based on 
development  and  shared  interests,  which  will  lead  to 
sustainable security rather than a volatile peace based 
on threats.
We  hope  to  engage  with  our  neighbours  in  a 
wide  range  of  social  and  economic  initiatives  aimed 
at  cooperation,  which  will  enable  the  achievement 
of  political  understanding  and  even  foster  structural 
cooperation  on  security.  In  the  international  system 
today,  mutual  economic  ties  are  considered  to  be  the 
foremost  factors  in  facilitating  political  cooperation 
and reducing security-related challenges.
In  2013,  from  this  very  stage,  I  called  for 
combating violence and extremism (A/68/PV.6, p. 13). 
Subsequently,  the  representatives  of  the  international 
community unanimously gave my appeal their seal of 
endorsement  and,  as  a  result,  the  General  Assembly 
adopted  resolution  68/127,  on  a  world  against  violent 
extremism.  The  implementation  of  that  resolution 
requires well-intentioned solutions and the application 
of  experience  gained  in  the  realm  of  diplomacy.  I 
am  pleased  that,  by  adding  the  support  for  the  Joint 
15-29265
33/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
Comprehensive Plan of Action to the invaluable support 
for the world against violent extremism resolution, we 
may  now  devise  a  plan  to  resolve  the  problems  of  a 
shattered Middle East caught in the claws of brutality 
and savagery.
pursuing  dangerous  policies  on  behalf  of  its  regional 
allies. Its behaviour, which only cultivates the seeds of 
division and extremism, must be brought to an end, and 
its actions must be made compatible with the realities 
of the region. 
With  a  view  to  fighting  ignorance,  dictatorship, 
poverty, corruption, terrorism, violence and their social, 
political,  cultural,  economic  and  security  impacts,  I 
would like to invite the entire world, in particular the 
countries of my region, to form a Joint Comprehensive 
Plan  of  Action  campaign  aimed  at  creating  a  united 
front  against  extremism  and  violence.  Such  a  front 
must  create  a  collective  and  global  movement  to 
tackle regional problems in a serious manner through 
dialogue, prevent the slaughter of innocent people and 
the  bombardment  of  civilians,  counter  the  promotion 
of  violence  and  the  killing  of  other  human  beings, 
provide  for  stability  in  cooperation  with  established 
central  Governments  to  maintain  stability,  and  once 
stability is established, build diplomacy and democratic 
governance in the Middle East region.
Iraq,  Syria  and  Yemen  are  all  examples  of  crises 
that  are  being  stoked  through  terror,  extremism, 
violence,  bloodshed,  invasion  and  the  indifference  of 
the  international  community.  They  are  also  examples 
of  how  the  flight  from  the  horrors  of  war  and 
bombardment triggers displacement and homelessness. 
The problems of those countries have persisted because 
the  international  community  has  failed  them  and 
because of the wrong-minded actions of newcomers to 
the region and naive transregional actors. As a result, 
the wave of destruction has gone beyond the Arab world 
and  reached  the  doorstep  of  Europe  and  the  United 
States,  resulting  in  the  loss  of  priceless  elements  of 
the world heritage, including precious relics of ancient 
civilizations. It has also resulted, more broadly, in the 
death of humanity itself.
We must not forget that the roots of today’s wars, 
destruction  and  terror  can  be  found  in  yesterday’s 
occupations,  invasions  and  military  interventions.  If 
the United States military invasion of Afghanistan and 
Iraq had not taken place and if the United States had 
not  provided  unwarranted  support  for  the  inhumane 
actions  of  the  Zionist  regime  against  the  oppressed 
nation of Palestine, the terrorists today would not have 
any  justification  for  their  crimes.  It  is  high  time  that 
the Government of the United States stop claiming to 
know  the  truth  about  our  region  and  cease  throwing 
baseless accusations about against its adversaries while 
Despite  the  many  problems  in  our  region  today, 
we believe in a promising future. We do not doubt that 
the  obstacles  can  be  overcome  by  wisdom,  prudence 
and the use of new and powerful capacities, as well as 
by  relying  on  our  civilizational  roots  and  our  serious 
resolve.  Thanks  to  the  light  of  divine  revelation,  we 
have faith in the bright future of humankind, in which 
people will live in peace, tranquillity and spirituality. 
We believe in the will of nations to choose the path of 
goodness and purity. We believe that ultimate victory 
will be won by those with good-natured piety.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Islamic Republic of 
Iran for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin 
Hamad Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Amir of the State of Qatar.
Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad  Al-Thani,  Amir  of  the 
State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Highness  Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad  Al-Thani,  Amir 
of the State of Qatar, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
Sheikh Al-Thani (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
I  would  like  to  extend  my  congratulations  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  on  his  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session and to wish him every success. I also wish to 
express  our  appreciation  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam 
Kutesa,  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-ninth  session,  for  his  efforts  in  conducting  the 
Assembly’s business at that session. I wish also to avail 
myself  of  this  occasion  to  commend  the  efforts  made 
by  His  Excellency  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon, to achieve the goals of the United Nations.
34/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
It  is  gratifying  that  the  United  Nations  has 
adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution  70/1),  which  we  have  supported,  based 
on  our  belief  that  the  good  distribution  of  the  fruits 
of  development  is  a  prerequisite  for  realizing  social 
justice,  preserving  human  dignity  and  enhancing  the 
cohesion  of  communities,  thereby  enhancing  security 
and  stability  in  the  world.  Since  there  is  no  lasting 
stability  without  development  and  social 
justice, 
development  is  also  clearly  impossible  where  there  is 
war and unrest. It was our hope that this session would 
be convened after some progress had been made with 
regard to the various bloody conflicts in our world, yet 
we find ourselves encountering increasing numbers of 
challenges and crises that threaten international peace 
and security.
The absence of international consensus has proved 
once  again  to  be  an  obstacle  to  efforts  to  resolve 
important  issues.  Selectivity  in  choosing  what  efforts 
to  make  in  enforcing  justice  and  international  law 
remains prevalent in dealing with regional issues. That 
compromises  the  concept  of  international  legitimacy 
and  the  values,  norms  and  principles  that  are  rooted 
in  the  human  conscience  and  have  been  adopted  by 
the  international  community  after  millions  of  people 
paid an exorbitant price throughout history as a result 
of  major  humanitarian  challenges  that  have  taken  an 
unforgettable  toll  on  people,  such  as  enslavement, 
genocide,  colonialism,  racism  and  world  war.  It  is 
impermissible  to  tamper  with  the  values  that  have 
grown out of the suffering of people. In a way, that is 
the raison d’être of the Organization, without which our 
annual meetings would be meaningless.
The  conflict  in  the  Middle  East  will  continue  to 
pose  a  permanent  threat  to  international  peace  and 
security, given its direct impact on the numerous crises 
facing  the  region  and  the  world.  A  just  and  lasting 
solution  to  the  question  of  Palestine,  which  remains 
an issue involving a people perennially displaced from 
their land and still under the yoke of occupation, cannot 
be  postponed  to  another  generation.  The  achievement 
of  a  just  and  lasting  settlement  that  brings  an  end  to 
the  Israeli  occupation  of  Palestinian  territories  and 
which establishes a Palestinian State requires an Israeli 
partner for peace. For the time being, there is no Israeli 
partner for a just peace or even for a settlement. In such 
circumstances,  the  international  obligation  to  address 
the last de facto colonial issue in modern history cannot 
be shirked.
Until an end is put to occupation and procrastination 
and other delaying tactics, futile contacts and statements 
will continue. The feverish pace of settlement activity, 
despite  its  having  been  condemned,  will  continue,  in 
addition  to  persistent  violations  of  the  sanctity  of  the 
Al-Aqsa Mosque. This is a clear indication not only of 
the absence of Israel’s will to achieve peace, but also 
of  the  domination  of  ultra-Orthodox  fundamentalist 
nationalist  elements  over  Israeli  policy.  Look  at  what 
is happening in Jerusalem. Extremist religious political 
forces rely on literal interpretations of texts dating back 
thousands of years in order to desecrate other people’s 
holy  sites  and  occupy  and  settle  their  land.  Is  this 
not  tantamount  to  religious  fundamentalism?  Is  this 
violence not an act of terrorism carried out by radical 
religious forces?
Permit me to address a message to all major actors 
of  the  international  community:  the  continued  failure 
to  find  a  just  and  lasting  solution  to  the  Palestinian 
question  is  a  blot  on  the  conscience  of  humankind. 
The  international  community  is  failing  to  find  even 
a  less  than  fair  settlement;  it  has  not  even  succeeded 
in  achieving  the  reconstruction  of  the  Gaza  Strip 
in  the  aftermath  of  the  aggression,  even  though  an 
international conference based on a Norwegian initiative 
was convened specifically for this purpose. Qatar has 
pledged to pay $1 billion for the reconstruction process, 
and we are continuing to provide aid to the Gaza Strip 
in implementation of our commitment. But we wonder 
what  happened  to  the  conference  and  the  decisions  it 
took.
The 
represented 
international  community, 
in 
the  Security  Council,  is  duty-bound  to  assume  its 
responsibilities  by  taking  a  firm  stance  that  would 
force  Israel  to  comply  with  the  deliverables  of  peace, 
namely,  to  halt  all  forms  of  settlement  activity  in  the 
occupied Palestinian territories; to lift the unjust siege 
of the Gaza Strip; and to implement the resolutions of 
international legitimacy that recognize the Palestinian 
people’s right to regain their legitimate national rights  
and  establish  an  independent  Palestinian  State  on 
the  basis  of  the  1967  borders,  in  conformity  with  the 
principle of the two-State solution.
We caution against missed opportunities, because 
if  people  were  to  reach  the  conclusion  that  there  is 
no  peaceful  solution  to  this  issue,  this  would  lead  to 
unpredictable and dire consequences for the region and 
for the whole world.
15-29265
35/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
The  Syrian  crisis,  with  all  of  its  dimensions  and 
repercussions, is having catastrophic consequences for 
the Middle East region and the world as a whole. The 
continued atrocities and horrendous crimes perpetrated 
by  the  regime  against  the  Syrian  people  threaten  the 
status of the State and its people and create a breeding 
ground  for  extremism  and  terrorism,  under  false 
religious,  sectarian  and  ethnic  pretexts,  endangering 
humankind and the cultural heritage in Syria and the 
region.
In that context, the Syrian regime has manipulated 
terrorism  by  depicting  peaceful 
the  concept  of 
demonstrations  as  terrorism,  even  as  it  has  been 
committing actual acts of terrorism. When the shelling 
and  killing  of  civilians  drove  people  to  take  armed 
action, and when certain entities that are not committed 
to the demands and principles of the Syrian revolution 
entered  into  the  sphere  of  political  action  without 
permission, Syria became a war zone. At that point, the 
regime  attempted  to  instil  fear  into  the  international 
community as to the alternative.
It was incumbent on the international community 
to put an end to the massacres in a timely manner and 
create the conditions necessary for the Syrian people to 
devise a rational, civil and fair alternative to despotic 
rule.  But  is  there  a  tyranny  in  the  world  that  could 
acknowledge an alternative? Is it possible that a tyranny 
could allow an alternative to grow and develop under its 
shadow?
When  a  people  suffer  from  war,  genocide  and 
displacement,  the  worst  decision  is  not  to  take  a 
decision  at  all,  and  the  worst  danger  lies  in  ignoring 
danger. The failure of the international community to 
take the decisions and measures necessary to end this 
disaster is a major crime. It reveals the failure and the 
incapacity  of  the  international  system  and  has  led  to 
a  loss  of  confidence  in  legality  and  the  international 
community.
In  this  context,  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly 
must  be  promoted  and  strengthened  as  a  broader 
framework for dealing with the issues facing peoples, 
given the inability or failure of the Security Council to 
find fair solutions thereto.
From this rostrum, I call for cooperation aimed at 
imposing  a  political  solution  in  Syria  that  would  end 
the  reign  of  tyranny  and  replace  it  with  a  pluralistic 
regime based on equal citizenship for all Syrians; defeat 
radicalism and terrorism and insulate Syria therefrom; 
repatriate  the  displaced  to  their  homes;  and  allow  for 
the reconstruction of Syria. The question is not whether 
this is possible; it will be possible if certain States have 
the necessary will.
The question is: is the continuation of the current 
situation in Syria possible? The conflict has morphed 
into genocide and caused the mass displacement of the 
population. This is having grave consequences for the 
region and the entire world, even for countries that are 
not  working  to  expedite  a  solution  because  they  are 
neither directly affected by the conflict nor reached by 
the influx of displaced people.
the 
level  of 
nuclear-disarmament  issues,  which  is  characterized 
by  shortcomings  and  double  standards,  alarms  us. 
Clear  evidence  of  this  is  the  recent  failure  of  the 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  to  render  the 
Middle East a nuclear-free zone; this was disappointing 
and has undermined the credibility of the Treaty.
The  handling  at 
international 
The  agreement  between  Iran  and  the  P5+1  is  a 
positive and important step. We hope that this nuclear 
agreement  will  contribute  to  the  maintenance  of 
security and stability in our region. We further wish to 
see the entire region rendered free of nuclear arms and 
weapons of mass destruction.
In  this  context,  given  the  strategic  importance  of 
the  Gulf  region,  the  achievement  of  stability  in  the 
Gulf is essential to the countries of the region and the 
international  community  as  a  whole.  In  this  regard, 
we  emphasize  our  firm  position  that  the  Gulf  region 
must be spared any dangers or threats related to nuclear 
weapons,  and  that  there  must  be  a  recognition  of  the 
right of the countries of the region to use nuclear energy 
for peaceful purposes, in accordance with the relevant 
international norms.
On this occasion, I wish to reiterate that Iran is an 
important  neighbouring  country  and  that  cooperation 
between it and other countries is in the interest of the 
region.
Bilateral  relations  between  Qatar  and  Iran  are 
developing  and  evolving  steadily  on  the  basis  of 
common  interests  and  good-neighbourliness.  There  is 
no  dispute  concerning  bilateral  relations  between  our 
two countries. There are various creeds and religions in 
our region, but, in my opinion, there is no Shiite-Sunni 
conflict,  only  differences  that  are  triggered  by  the 
political  interests  of  countries  or  the  interests  of 
36/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
political and social forces that foment internal sectarian 
prejudices.
I believe that existing disputes are political, regional 
Arab-Iranian  differences  rather 
than  Sunni-Shiite 
disputes.  These  could  be  resolved  through  dialogue 
and  by  initially  agreeing  on  the  rules  governing  the 
relationship  between  Iran  and  the  Gulf  States  on  the 
basis  of  the  principle  of  non-interference  in  internal 
affairs. It is high time that a meaningful dialogue of this 
kind be conducted between countries that will always 
remain  neighbours  and  are  not  in  need  of  mediation 
from anyone. We are ready to host such a dialogue in 
Qatar.
We  affirm  our  commitment  to  Yemen’s  unity, 
territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty,  and  we  support 
the  legitimacy  of  the  political  process  and  urge  its 
completion in accordance with the Gulf initiative and 
its  executive  mechanism,  the  outcome  of  the  Yemen 
National  Dialogue  Conference  in  January  2014,  the 
Riyadh  Declaration  of  May  2015  and  the  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions,  particularly  resolution 
2216  (2015).  It  is  unreasonable  to  set  the  precedent 
whereby  a  major  political  party  accepts  the  outcome 
of  a  national  dialogue  yet  ignores  it,  seeking  instead 
to  impose  its  own  vision  and  to  dominate  the  entire 
country by force.
to  Iraqi, 
With  respect 
the  stability  of  Iraq 
requires  a  general  national  consensus  free  from 
outside  interferences  and  from  sectarian  and  ethnic 
discrimination. We hope that the Iraqi Government will 
be able to fulfil the need for concord and reconciliation 
among the various Iraqi people’s factions. Experience 
in  Iraq  and  Yemen  has  proved  that  the  existence  of 
militias operating outside the framework of legitimacy 
is not only a threat to the State by virtue of its inherent 
nature and its exclusive right to establish armed forces, 
but is also tantamount to a dormant civil war that could 
turn into full-blown domestic strife sooner or later. Any 
political solution in Iraq, Yemen, Syria or Libya must 
preclude the existence of militias outside the framework 
of legitimate State institutions. That is a key component 
of any genuine settlement, without which there can be 
neither a permanent settlement nor real solutions.
corruption.  Nations  and  peoples  face  grave  political, 
security  and  economic  challenges  from  terrorism  and 
its  dire  consequences.  Tensions  and  conflicts  have 
undoubtedly contributed to the emergence of terrorist 
organizations.  The  international  community’s  failure 
to  address  hotbeds  of  tension  and  conflict  has  also 
contributed to creating an environment that is friendly 
to terrorist operations.
Terrorism  is  rooted  in  radical  ideas  that  brook 
no  compromise  with  the  actuality  of  people  and  their 
potential;  it  thrives  in  an  atmosphere  of  despair  and 
blocked  prospects.  Terrorism  does  not  emerge  in  a 
society  where  policies  guarantee  its  citizens  a  life 
of  dignity  and  freedom.  It  arises  in  the  shadow  of 
tyranny and feeds on oppression and humiliation, feeds 
on  grudges  and  hatred  born  of  torture  in  prison,  and 
exploits the loss of hope of peaceful political action.
Moreover, the behaviour of influential Powers in the 
international community distorts people’s perceptions 
rather  than  helping  to  provide  clarifications.  Some 
armed  militias  that  commit  crimes  against  civilians 
and  public  institutions  are  branded  as  terrorist,  while 
others  perpetrating  violence  and  intimidation  against 
civilians are not deemed terrorists due to considerations 
related  not  to  the  local  communities  themselves,  but 
to international and regional Powers or to transitional 
alliances.
The  rising  toll  of  victims  of  terrorist  operations 
has  necessitated  the  use  of  military  force  to  counter 
this  phenomenon.  We  affirm  our  commitment  to 
fighting terrorism, but even if the harshest conditions 
we  should  not  ignore  its  underlying  causes;  if  we  do, 
the  phenomenon  will  be  exacerbated  and  spread  even 
further. We highlight the fact that there is no faith that 
preaches  terrorism.  All  religious  texts  contain  ample 
teachings calling for peace, tolerance and coexistence, 
but  the promoters and hucksters of literal readings of 
scripture ignore the fundamental religious teachings of 
noble  values,  tolerance,  cooperation  and  constructive 
dialogue for the benefit of humankind. Simple people 
with their quintessential religiosity deem religion first 
and foremost to be a set of values and morals. That is 
what we must build on.
The political forces in our region must pay heed to 
the thousands of young people who recently took to the 
streets in more than one Arab country demanding that 
citizenship  be  the  basis  for  partnership,  and  refusing 
to  be  represented  on  a  sectarian  basis  and  to  accept 
that sectarian representation may be used to cover up 
The State of Qatar has sought to pursue a progressive 
policy  in  the  protection  and  promotion  of  human 
rights  and  pursues  cooperation  with  international 
organizations  through  our  membership  in  the  Human 
Rights Council in order to consolidate the concepts and 
culture of human rights through an approach based on 
15-29265
37/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
the rule of law, transparency, justice and human dignity. 
We  must  work  together  to  strengthen  the  collective 
security  system  in  order  to  effectively  deal  with 
international  and  regional  problems  and  to  preserve 
the rights of peoples. We must resolutely counter any 
attempt  to  impose  temporary  solutions  to  address  the 
side-effects  of  problems  rather  than  targeting  their 
roots.
Mr. Balói (Mozambique), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
Finally,  the  State  of  Qatar  will  spare  no  effort  to 
support the international community’s efforts to achieve 
the goals that we all aspire to, commensurate with the 
interest of our peoples and the good of humanity.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Amir of the State of Qatar for the 
statement he has just made.
Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad  Al-Thani,  Amir  of  the 
State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. François Hollande, President of the 
French Republic
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the French Republic.
Mr.  François  Hollande,  President  of  the  French 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  François  Hollande, 
President of the French Republic, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Hollande  (spoke 
in  French):  Our 
Organization,  the  United  Nations,  is  celebrating  its 
seventieth  anniversary.  Immense  progress  has  been 
made since it was established as an institution entrusted 
with  the  task  of  maintaining  peace,  which  it  has 
managed to do so on many an occasion. Yet, 70 years 
later dramas and tragedies, conflicts and wars continue 
to  unfold,  and  the  world  must  yet  once  again  rise  up 
to significant challenges. Among those of today is the 
flight of hundreds of thousands — even millions — of 
refugees  from  the  Middle  East  and  Africa,  seeking 
protection or simply to save their lives. Terrorism strikes 
at civilian populations and no country is immune from 
this  scourge.  There  are  also  conflicts,  such  as  that  in 
the Middle East, that have remain unresolved for years 
and years, and that we all know could intensify at any 
moment. 
In  the  meantime,  there  are  disasters:  tsunamis, 
earthquakes,  islands  on  the  verge  of  disappearing, 
coastlines washed away, and glaciers melting. That is 
the reality of climate change. 
Faced  with  such  challenges,  we  must  all  must 
shoulder  our  responsibilities  at  our  respective  levels. 
France,  in  many  domains,  has  never  refused  its 
cooperation. France wished to host the Climate Change 
Conference,  no  doubt  because  we  were  aware  of  that 
terrible failure at Copenhagen and felt that this time we 
needed to make a good decision, one that can be taken 
only by the entire international community.
So in Paris, we must ask ourselves one question: is 
humankind capable of taking the decision to preserve 
life on the planet? Yes, that single question places us at 
a level that no one could ever imagine in our generation. 
Some  will  say,  “But  that  can  happen  later,  maybe  at 
another conference”. I assure the Assembly here and I 
will say it quite plainly: if it does not happen in Paris, it 
will be too late for the world.
Matters have progressed well in recent months, and 
very strong declarations have been made by precisely 
those most responsible for global warming — the United 
States and China, which have made commitments that 
contribute to changing the current situation. Many calls 
have  come  from  all  continents,  stressing  the  gravity 
and  urgency  of  the  situation  and  providing  detailed 
testimony on what global warming is now, today. There 
are some countries that so far have been reluctant — here 
I  am  thinking  of  developing  countries  —  and  have 
asked themselves whether it is really useful to impose 
restrictions  on  themselves  when  the  most  developed 
countries have been free of such rules and obligations. 
If asked today for a prognosis, and I often am, I will 
say that nothing has been settled in regard to winning 
an  accord  in  Paris  —  nothing.  But  at  the  same  time, 
everything  remains  possible.  I  see  three  conditions 
that must be met for us to be able to say that the Paris 
Conference was truly successful, worthy of us and of 
what was entrusted to us when we were asked to host 
the Conference.
The  first  condition  is  to  be  able  to  conclude  a 
universal  agreement  applicable  to  all,  one  that  is 
binding and differentiated so that everyone can do their 
own part, and not more. To date, 90 countries — half 
38/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
of those sitting in the United Nations — have submitted 
their national contribution, which represents 80 per cent 
of greenhouse gas emissions — already a considerable 
figure.  That  means  that  half  of  the  world  has  not  yet 
responded. I therefore invite them to do so and to do so 
quickly so that we can determine as of now what, given 
the contributions from every State, we can assure the 
world will be the limit on global warming.
The second condition that will signify our success 
or  failure  is  to  be  able  to  ensure  that  our  resolution, 
our  action,  is  long-lasting.  The  Paris  accord  must  not 
be an end or a conclusion, but rather a starting point, 
the  beginning  of  a  process.  Through  incorporating  a 
review mechanism into the agreement, we will be able 
to  regularly  review,  periodically  measure  and  even 
revise  every  five  years  our  national  contributions. 
That is what will allow us to be sure that at the end of 
the century, well beyond our time, the planet will not 
havewarmed by more than 2°C.
The  third  condition  that  will  determine  failure 
or  success  is  developed  countries  making  financial 
commitments. I am aware that already in Copenhagen 
the  figure  of  $100  billion  was  announced  to  ensure 
the  financing  of  energy  transition,  adaptation  and 
technology  transfer.  We  must  collect  $100  billion  by 
2020,  but  it  must  be  said  today  so  as  to  ensure  that 
emerging  countries,  developing  countries,  can  feel 
confident that they will be aided and supported so that 
this technological leap, the sharing of technology, will 
come about. 
Yes, one hundred billion dollars. The Organization 
for  Economic  Cooperation  and  Development  (OECD) 
is  responsible  for  providing  an  initial  estimate,  to  be 
presented at the Lima meeting. I wish here to thank the 
President of Peru for continuing the work he undertook at 
the twentieth session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change.  The  OECD  will  provide  the  initial  estimate, 
as  we  have  not  reached  $100  billion  yet.  So  we  have 
two months before the Paris Conference to continue to 
mobilize  the  World  Bank,  major  development  banks, 
financial  institutions,  States  and  private  stakeholders 
so that we can reach $100 billion. Everyone should set 
an example. France abides by the rule that when serving 
as  the  host  country;  we  must  perform  better  than  our 
guests, or at least as well as them.  
I  am  announcing  here  today  that  France’s  annual 
climate  funding,  which  is  €3  billion  today,  will  be 
more than €5 billion in 2020. That increase in aid will 
not  be  merely  through  loans,  but  also  in  the  form  of 
grants,  because  it  is  with  grants  —  funds  transferred 
directly  and  that  will  not  be  reimbursed  —  that  we 
can  powerfully  promote  the  adaptation  of  developing 
countries to the effects of climate change. 
In  brief,  if  we  are  in  a  position  to  meet  those 
three  requirements  —  that  is,  a  universal  agreement, 
one  that  can  be  revised  and  will  be  revised  every  5 
years, and funding sufficient to cover everything that 
we  will  have  to  cover  in  emerging  needs  and  future 
technology — then in Paris in two months we will be 
able  to  say  we  have  risen  to  the  challenge;  not  just  a 
rendez-vous with history, but with the future.
It is good that the international community is able to 
look to the future and to say what sort of world we want. 
We did it with respect to the Sustainable Development 
Goals, and we must do it for climate issues. But what 
is  expected  of  the  United  Nations  is  not  simply  to 
ensure — though this is already considerable — that the 
world will be liveable at the end of the century, but that 
it is liveable today, when conflicts and wars confront 
us with tragedies that in 1945, when the United Nations 
system was founded, nobody imagined we would ever 
see again.
Today,  it  is  Syria  that  once  again  calls  on  us  to 
mobilize  and  to  intervene,  as  many  speakers  have 
already stated. Everyone considers that this is a tragedy 
striking the Syrian population. Everyone has said that 
we must find a solution. Let us look for it together. But 
first, we should assess what has not been done. 
Three  years  ago,  when  I  stood  at  this  rostrum  to 
address  the  General  Assembly  (see  A/67/PV.6),  there 
had already been 30,000 victims of the Syrian tragedy. 
There  are  now  250,000,  and  12,000  children  have 
died,  victims  of  the  Bashar  Al-Assad  regime.  The 
Syrian  tragedy  began  with  a  revolution  led  by  those 
who  wanted  to  challenge  the  dictatorship  of  Bashar 
Al-Assad. At that time, there were no terrorists, there 
were no fundamentalist groups — there was a dictator 
who was massacring a people. And the refugees whom 
we are discussing today, the refugees in the camps, the 
displaced,  8  million  of  them  —  this  mass  of  women, 
men and children — have not just fled a war. For more 
than three years they have been fleeing from the regime 
of Bashar Al-Assad. And still today that same regime is 
raining bombs on innocent civilians.
But it is not because there is a terrorist group that 
itself  massacres,  kills,  rapes,  destroys  —  including 
15-29265
39/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
destruction of the common heritage of humankind — that 
some form of pardon, of amnesty, should necessarily be 
accorded to the regime that created this situation, as if 
the existence of a terrorist group that commits the worst 
kinds of evil acts could furnish the regime with a way 
to share in what is good. No, all those women, men and 
children are victims of this tragedy, which is generated 
by the alliance between terrorism and dictatorship. No 
solution can be found outside of a political process. 
France,  which,  due  to  its  history  and  also  its 
links  that  bind  it  to  that  part  of  the  world,  intends  to 
shoulder  its  responsibilities.  It  has  already  done  so 
recently,  including  through  armed  action,  through 
force. France wants to work with everyone; it does not 
exclude any country — neighbouring countries, which 
are most affected, the Gulf countries, but also Iran, the 
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council,  as  well 
as  Europeans.  We  want  to  work  with  everyone,  with 
everyone who wants to work with us.
There  is  talk  of  a  coalition.  This  broad  coalition 
is possible; it is even desirable and necessary in order 
to  put  an  end  to  what  is  happening  in  Syria.  But  this 
coalition  must  have  a  clear  basis  or  it  will  never  see 
the  light  of  day.  The  basis  was  provided  in  Geneva 
more  than  three  years  ago.  And  what  did  the  Geneva 
agreement say? It specified a transitional Government 
with  full  powers,  including  members  of  the  present 
Government and the opposition, formed on the basis of 
mutual consent. That is the basis; let us use it to move 
forward. 
But  I  can  see,  in  the  context  of  this  ongoing 
adversity, that some are making every diplomatic effort 
to  incorporate  Bashar  Al-Assad  in  that  process.  But 
one cannot make the victims and the executioner work 
together.  Al-Assad  is  at  the  origin  of  the  problem;  he 
cannot be part of the solution. We have to put an end to 
the suffering of the Syrian people, but we must also look 
beyond the political transition that has to be sought, the 
broad  coalition  that  has  to  be  formed,  this  condition 
that has to be laid down, to a new Government capable 
of  uniting  all  those  who  have  fought,  but  without  the 
dictator. 
because of wars, conflicts, climate, poverty — are in 
the South. Solidarity with the South is coming from the 
South. Frequently, it is the most deprived who welcome 
the  poorest.  There  comes  a  time  when  the  refugees 
start to walk, and they can no longer be stopped. If we 
want to avoid what we have seen — tragedies, crossings 
that endanger the lives of passengers — if we want to 
prevent smugglers and criminalsfrom using despair to 
further  enrich  the  coffers  of  terrorism,  then  we  must 
act.
Europe has hosted refugees coming not only from 
Syria, but also from Iraq, Eritrea and the Sudan. That 
was  our  duty,  because  Europe  is  based  on  values  and 
principles, and the right to asylum is part of this common 
foundation that unites all the European countries, and 
which must continue uniting them. Otherwise, it is not 
the kind of Europe that we wanted. 
But  while  Europe  should  discharge  its  duty,  the 
world must help refugees. What have we learned those 
past  days  and  weeks?  That  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR),  due  to  lack 
of  funds,  no  longer  has  the  resources  to  ensure  the 
necessary support and assistance to the populations in 
question. What have we learned? That the World Food 
Programme no longer has the means to provide all the 
refugees  basic  necessities  and  sufficient  food.  What 
have we learned? That in some neighbouring countries, 
refugees could not work.
This  is  the  start  of  the  cycle  one  would  have 
imagined.  If  we  want  to  reverse  the  flows,  if  we 
want  to  keep  refugees  as  close  as  possible  to  their 
home  countries,  then  we  must  fund  UNHCR  more, 
we  must  help  neighbouring  countries  —  Lebanon, 
Jordan, Turkey — but also countries in Africa, transit 
countries,  countries  where  there  is  no  migration.  We 
need  a  major  plan  now,  because  tragedy  is  calling  to 
act  and  to  avert  other  tragedies.  In  that  context,  too, 
France is doing what it can, and must do what it should. 
And  concerning  the  World  Food  Programme,  France 
has  decided  to  immediately  increase  by  €100  million 
its support for United Nations agencies that are helping 
countries neighbouring Syria.
We also have to be thinking about all the refugees. 
Until  now,  those  refugees  have  been  in  neighbouring 
countries,  but  there  too,  the  international  community 
turned a blind eye because it was far away. Today those 
refugees, who can endure no more, are starting a long 
march. Yesterday, I recalled in the Assembly (see A/70/
PV.11) that 80 per cent of the world’s refugees — refugees 
I want to end my speech by saying that the legitimacy 
of an Organization such as the United Nations rests on 
its credibility. If the United Nations does not have the 
capacity  to  resolve  conflicts  that  have  been  going  on 
for  far  too  long,  if  the  United  Nations  cannot  resolve 
tragedies or ease the situation of civilian populations, 
then our helplessness will condemn us. If we want our 
40/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
Organization  —  which  is  celebrating  its  seventieth 
anniversary  —  to  have  a  future  worthy  of  that  which 
the founders imagined, we cannot avoid reform of the 
United Nations. 
France  calls  for  the  enlargement  of  the  Security 
Council. France calls for a different representation in the 
Security Council. France calls for continents to clearly 
bear  responsibility  for  the  world  in  the  framework  of 
the  Security  Council.  France  wants  the  permanent 
members of the Security Council to no longer resort to 
the right of veto in cases of mass atrocities. How can we 
tolerate  that  the  United  Nations,  even  today,  remains 
paralysed when the worst is unfolding? There again, let 
us lead by example. I pledge here today that France will 
never  use  its  right  of  veto  in  matters  involving  mass 
atrocities. The right of veto as it was introduced when 
the  United  Nations  was  founded  was  not  the  right  to 
block; it was the right to act. We have to act. We can 
act.  We  have  been  showing  that  we  can  for  70  years. 
Here, today, we can act to settle the tragedies of today 
and to save the planet tomorrow. Let us act.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the French 
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  François  Hollande,  President  of  the  French 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Filipe Jacinto Nyusi, President of 
the Republic of Mozambique
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Mozambique.
Mr. Filipe Jacinto Nyusi, President of the Republic 
of  Mozambique,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Filipe  Jacinto  Nyusi, 
President of the Republic of Mozambique, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Nyusi  (spoke  in  Portuguese;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation): It  is  with 
great honour that, once again, on behalf of the people of 
Mozambique and, indeed, on my own behalf, I address 
the General Assembly at its seventieth session. As we 
celebrate 70 years of our Organization, we are cognizant 
of  the  fact  that  we  are  not  here  just  to  commemorate 
a  mere  event.  We  are  also  celebrating  the  realization 
of  the  desire  to  build  a  universal  Organization  that 
carries out activities with a global perspective and with 
a structured and institutionalized scope and a capacity 
to evolve and adapt. 
We  are  celebrating  one  of  the  wisest  decisions 
that  humankind  has  ever  made,  namely,  to  establish 
an  international  body  responsible  for  peace,  security 
and  the  development  of  member  countries.  It  is  an 
Organization  created  to  prevent  humankind  from 
experiencing  a  world  war  or  violent  conflicts  whose 
effects are felt at the global level. We are celebrating a 
mutual commitment to strengthen international law as 
an instrument for regulating and standardizing relations 
between  and  among  States.  Those  relations  are  based 
on the principle of sovereign equality among States, the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  non-interference 
in  domestic  affairs.  Those  positive  and  inspiring 
ideals  contrast,  however,  with  the  prevailing  conflict 
situations,  which  still  affect  humankind.  We  would 
not  be  fair  to  ourselves,  to  our  peoples  or  to  future 
generations, if we ignored the challenges and failures 
that are to be overcome. 
The  United  Nations  has  failed 
to  guarantee 
international  peace  and  security  in  its  full  sense.  Old 
and  new  challenges  have  emerged,  and  inter-  and 
intra-State  conflicts  have  proliferated,  particularly 
in  Africa  and  the  Middle  East.  The  phenomenon 
of  terrorism  is  growing  and  becoming  the  most 
serious  threat  of  our  time.  Decolonization  is  yet  to 
be  completed.  Underdevelopment,  exacerbated  by  the 
problem of refugees and illegal migration, is far from 
becoming a thing of the past. However, those failures 
should  not  be  regarded  fatalistically.  They  should  be 
taken up as challenges, which require more than mere 
words  as  a  response.  Most  importantly,  they  require 
concerted  action  by  the  international  community. 
Without the United Nations, the political, economic and 
social context in which we find ourselves would surely 
be worse.
In celebration of the seventieth anniversary of the 
United  Nations,  the  theme  for  this  session,  “A  new 
commitment  to  action”,  represents  a  reaffirmation 
of  our  commitment  to  keep  alive  our  objective  of 
protecting  future  generations  from  the  violence  of 
war  and  to  ensure  inclusive  social  and  economic 
development  in  full  freedom.  There  is,  therefore,  one 
response  to  those  phenomena  and  trends,  and  that  is 
15-29265
41/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
to translate the theme, “A new commitment to action”, 
into  concrete,  structured  and  tangible  actions.  For 
Mozambique, the commitment to action in the area of 
international peace and security includes, inter alia, the 
adoption and implementation of effective structures for 
the prevention and management of conflicts, as well as 
the  need  to  conclude  a  convention  against  terrorism. 
The emphasis should be on preventive diplomacy. The 
commitment  to  action  that  we  are  celebrating  here 
should establish platforms for dialogue among cultures 
and  civilizations  as  an  essential  tool  for  promoting 
tolerance,  the  culture  of  peace  and  a  dignified  and 
peaceful world. 
With  respect  to  development,  we  are  delighted 
at  the  adoption  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda 
in  the  form  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1), which is our new global 
development  framework  for  the  next  15  years.  It  is 
an  agenda  that  follows  and  builds  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  which  have  guided  us  over  the 
past 15 years. Therefore, any action we take in future 
should  not  ignore  the  successes  achieved  and  lessons 
learned.  Like  other  countries,  Mozambique  has 
achieved remarkable progress in the implementation of 
the Millennium Development Goals. We have expanded 
access to education, improved gender balance in access 
to primary education and met the target set for infant- 
mortality reduction.
The new post-2015 development agenda embodies 
our  collective  ambition  to  transform  the  world  by 
2030. The new Agenda brings back human dignity by 
fighting poverty and protecting people and the planet. 
At  the  core  of  the  new  Agenda  is  the  culmination  of 
a  series  of  negotiation  processes,  at  the  global  level, 
on  climate  change.  The  new  post-2015  development 
agenda  is  perfectly  in  line  with  our  Government’s 
five-year programme. It is not an end in itself, but it has 
the added value of focusing on people. It is founded on 
the so-called sustainable development pillars, namely, 
the economic, social and environmental dimensions. 
It  is  our  desire  that  we  should  meet  in  2030,  at 
another  historic  event  just  like  this  one,  to  celebrate 
the  implementation  of  the  goals  and  common  vision, 
as  reflected  in  the  new  Agenda,  whose  full  title  is 
“Transforming  our  world:  The  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development”.  If  that  is  to  be  possible, 
Mozambique maintains that, among other things, it is 
of paramount importance that the commitment to action 
include the need to mobilize the requisite resources in 
a timely manner. Significant resources will be required 
for  the  implementation  of  the  new  Agenda  if  it  is  to 
maintain    continuous  relevance.  In  that  regard,  we 
must follow the principle of common but differentiated 
responsibilities  and  keep  in  mind  how  important  it  is 
that  all  partners  respect  the  commitments  made  and 
the  agreed  international  development  goals.  It  is  also 
important  that  the  appropriate  technology  transfers 
to  developing  countries  take  place  and  that  aid  be 
granted without political conditionalities. We must also 
strengthen North-South, South-South, and bilateral and 
multilateral  cooperation  mechanisms  in  accordance 
with  internationally  agreed  principles  and  respect  for 
national realities and local content.
As all may be aware, Mozambique was one of the 
50  countries  selected  by  the  United  Nations  to  host 
national consultations. That sample contributed to the 
development of the new guiding instrument that is the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1).  The  process  included  the  broadest  spectrum 
of  social  and  professional  elements,  and,  to  our 
satisfaction, its results were taken into consideration in 
the report of the Secretary-General (A/70/1).
the  post-2015  development  Agenda 
If the post-2015 development Agenda is to be truly 
transformative  and  successful,  it  must  be  integrated 
into  and  owned    by  policymaking  instruments  at  the 
national level. Indicators and targets should be defined 
clearly  to  facilitate  the  monitoring  and  evaluation  of 
progress. Mozambique has already taken an important 
step by incorporating the three-dimensional approach 
of 
the 
Government’s  five-year  programme  2015-2019,  which 
defines  five  priorities,  namely:  consolidating  national 
unity,  peace  and  sovereignty;  developing  human  and 
social  capital;  promoting  employment,  productivity 
and  competitiveness;  developing  economic  and  social 
infrastructures;  and  ensuring  the  sustainable  and 
transparent  management  of  natural  resources  and  the 
environment.  We  reiterate  here  our  commitment  to 
continued  capacity-building  in  the  area  of  domestic 
resources  mobilization,  which  increased  from  13  per 
cent  of  our  gross  domestic  product  in  2006  to  25  per 
cent in 2014.
into 
The inability of the United Nations to fully achieve 
the purpose for which it was established is one of the 
issues that concern us. It is hard to understand why the 
United Nations is hampering the implementation of its 
own mandate. We should be here today to celebrate the 
completion of the reform of the Security Council and 
42/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
the opening up of new opportunities to create a world in 
which people enjoy the most basic rights, including peace 
and development. The role of that reform in providing 
underlying  support  for  the  successful  implementation 
of  the  post-2015  development  Agenda  should  not  be 
underestimated.  We  should  therefore  translate  our 
renewed  mutual  will  to  reform  the  Security  Council 
into  practical  results,  and  we  should  take  advantage 
of the environment created for this session to provide 
greater dynamism to the reform process.
The  celebration  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  adoption  of  the  post-2015 
development  Agenda  are  being  overshadowed  by  an 
unprecedented  crisis  at  the  international  level.  I  am 
referring  to  the  humanitarian  crisis  caused  by  a  flow 
of refugees and migrants that is unparalleled in recent 
history. That shocking situation is due to a succession of 
unresolved crises and to poorly handled situations with 
outcomes that are far from meeting the expectations of 
the international community. 
Today we are committed to adopting measures to 
minimize  the  plight  of  those  people.  However,  little 
will be achieved if we continue to focus on short-term 
cosmetic  measures,  rather  than  respond  to  the  need 
to  curtail  the  flow  of  refugees  and  migrants  at  the 
source.  We  need  to  address  the  underlying  problems 
of  this  phenomenon,  which  explain  the  tragic  human 
proportions of the crisis. We will be in no position to 
identify  effective  actions  unless  we,  the  international 
community, recognize our own failure. We are talking 
about the proliferation of conflicts and political, social 
and economic exclusion. We are talking about poverty, 
injustice and hunger.
We have noted how dialogue has been replaced by 
threats  and  aggression.  We  have  noted  how  fear  has 
replaced  a  willingness  to  achieve  mutual  agreement. 
Some  of  the  ways  to  address  the  situation  have  been 
known for a long time. In that regard, we call upon all 
leaders to redouble their efforts to find lasting solutions 
to  the  humanitarian  crisis.  We  have  followed  with 
keen interest and much satisfaction the latest positive 
developments aimed at normalizing bilateral relations 
between  the  United  States  of  America  and  Cuba.  We 
continue  to  encourage  actions  aimed  at  ending  the 
economic,  trade  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba, 
without prejudice to the legitimate interests of any of 
those concerned. Although we may meet all of the targets 
of the post-2015 development Agenda, our mission as 
an international community will not be complete until 
we use wisdom and implement the political processes.
As  is  well  known,  Mozambique  was  one  of  the 
countries most affected by the presence of landmines. 
In  acknowledgement    of  the  importance  of  mine 
clearance  for  promoting  an  atmosphere  of  peace, 
security  and  development,  Mozambique  became  a 
party to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, 
Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel 
Mines  and  on  Their  Destruction,  also  known  as  the 
Ottawa  Convention.  From  the  outset,  we  have  made 
every effort to comply with the obligations arising from 
the Ottawa Convention. In that regard, I am pleased to 
announce that Mozambique has successfully completed 
its  demining  programme.  We  have  cleared  all  known 
risk areas, which totalled 500 million square metres of 
land.
Mr. Waqa (Nauru), Vice-President, took the Chair.
It  would  not  have  been  worthwhile  for  us  to 
liberate our country if then we had been forbidden to 
travel across our country, or if we had been forbidden 
to farm the land or develop tourism or mine our coal 
or  graphite.  We  celebrate  that  victory  with  intense 
emotion.  We  would  like  to  express  our  profound 
gratitude  to  our  international  partners,  humanitarian 
demining  organizations,  United  Nations  agencies 
and  civil  society  for  their  cooperation  and  invaluable 
support.
is  of  special 
importance 
The  year  2015 
to 
Mozambique.  On  25  June,  we  celebrated  40  years  of 
independence.  We  are  no  longer  an  adolescent  State. 
On 16 September we celebrated 40 years of cooperation 
with  the  United  Nations.  I  am    jubilant  because  I  am 
speaking here today, at the United Nations, and I believe 
that the United Nations should feel proud on account of 
my country’s stability and growth — growth that needs 
to be supported. 
I would like to conclude my remarks by reiterating 
that  the  search  for  sustainable  solutions  to  global 
problems, alongside the Organization and its Member 
States, will continue to be the focus of my Government’s 
unconditional commitment. Long live humankind and 
sustainable development!
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Mozambique for the statement he has just made.
15-29265
43/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
Mr. Filipe Jacinto Nyusi, President of the Republic 
of  Mozambique,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Majesty King Willem-Alexander, 
King of the Kingdom of the Netherlands
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  King  of  the  Kingdom  of  the 
Netherlands.
His  Majesty  King  Willem-Alexander,  King  of  the 
Kingdom of the Netherlands, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency King Willem-Alexander, King 
of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
King Willem-Alexander: It is a privilege to address 
the General Assembly on behalf of the Kingdom of the 
Netherlands, a Kingdom made up of four autonomous 
countries — the Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Saint 
Maarten — rooted in both Europe and the Caribbean. 
In  1945,  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  was 
signed  by  representatives  of  51  countries.  Today, 
70  years  later,  there  are  three  times  as  many  people 
on  the  Earth  and  four  times  as  many  Member  States, 
with  all  the  complexities  that  that  entails.  And  yet, 
as  an  international  Organization,  the  United  Nations 
stands  proud.  In  those  70  years,  the  world  has  seen 
great  upheavals  and  shifts  in  the  balance  of  power. 
Technological  advances  have  changed  our  daily  lives 
faster and more dramatically than ever before, and yet, 
the  United  Nations  endures.  We  have  seen  clashes  of 
interests, bitter conflicts and human tragedies, which, 
indeed, persist today. As we speak, the lives of millions 
are still dominated by fear, oppression and want. And 
yet, the United Nations lives on as a legitimate platform 
for international dialogue where countries can always 
come together, no matter how great their differences.
The United Nations is more than simply a platform. 
It  is  an  Organization  whose  activities  help  to  shape 
and  improve  our  world.  Thanks  in  part  to  the  United 
Nations,  extreme  poverty  has  been  halved,  child 
mortality  has  been  halved,  2.3  billion  people  have 
gained  access  to  drinking  water,  diseases  such  as 
malaria  and  tuberculosis  have  been  beaten  back,  and 
peace  operations  in  many  areas  have  brought  violent 
conflicts  under  control.  That  is  all  because  of  the 
work of millions of courageous people in the  Member 
States and the untiring efforts of the staff of the United 
Nations and its organs, both here in New York and all 
over  the  world.  So  I  would  like  to  say  to  the  United 
Nations:  congratulations!  I  thank  it  for  70  years  of 
battling against cynicism and fatalism.
is  and  will  remain 
For  the  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands,  the  United 
Nations 
the  primary  global 
Organization for peace, justice and development. That 
is why the Kingdom is a candidate for a non-permanent 
seat on the Security Council for the 2017-2018 term.
Of course, the world is far from perfect. It is still 
filled  with  terrible  injustice  and  human  suffering. 
But  we  have  also  made  great  progress.  What  would 
today’s  world  look  like  without  the  United  Nations? 
There can be no doubt that we would be worse off. The 
Kingdom of the Netherlands feels a close bond with the 
fundamentals of the United Nations, as laid down in the 
Charter of the United Nations. We understand the value 
of diversity and dialogue. This goes hand in hand with 
the conviction that multilateral cooperation can help us 
move forward and make the world stronger.
We  owe  our  freedom  to  other  countries.  Seventy 
years  ago  our  allies  made  enormous  sacrifices  in 
liberating  the  Netherlands.  They  enabled  us  to  rise 
again and become a prosperous Kingdom. We will never 
forget  the  importance  of  international  solidarity.  The 
world will always be able to count on the Netherlands 
as a partner for peace, justice and development.
Yet, just as we remain deeply committed, we also 
believe in being critical when necessary. It is good, on 
this  seventieth  anniversary,  for  the  United  Nations  to 
look openly and honestly at the results of its efforts, to 
look at the goals that have not been achieved and at the 
long  and  winding  path  that  lies  ahead.  Our  Kingdom 
is gravely concerned about the lawlessness, terror and 
contempt for basic human rights that are gaining ground 
in some areas. Millions of desperate people have been 
displaced  and  forced  to  flee  the  violence.  They  are 
the  innocent  victims  of  intolerance  and  of  despicable 
conduct  on  the  part  of  tyrants  they  cannot  constrain. 
Many  refugees  have  been  in  a  desperate  situation 
for too long. The positive effects of years of work on 
sustainable development are at risk, and this affects us 
all. We cannot look the other way.
We are all deeply touched by the tragic images of 
families  who  have  had  to  leave  everything  behind  in 
their  search  for  a  safe  haven.  All  the  world’s  nations 
44/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
must show solidarity in the face of the refugee crisis. 
The  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  has  again  increased 
its  contribution  to  humanitarian  assistance,  making  it 
one of the largest donors in the world. We call on other 
nations to follow suit and give additional support to the 
United Nations, so that it can provide food and shelter 
to all those who have been forced to flee and give them 
a chance to rebuild their lives.
It is crucial that we make our joint efforts on peace 
and  security  more  efficient  and  effective.  The  review 
by the High-level Independent Panel on United Nations 
Peace Operations is a helpful tool in that regard.
Since the United Nations was founded, the Kingdom 
of  the  Netherlands  has  participated  in  63  United 
Nations or United Nations-mandated missions in more 
than 30 countries. Those missions have involved more 
than  125,000  Dutch  military  and  civilian  personnel. 
Earlier this year, I visited the Dutch men and women 
who  are  part  of  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali. The situation 
there  clearly  illustrates  how  complex  the  problems 
in  conflict  areas  often  are.  You  cannot  build  lasting 
peace by military means alone. A political solution has 
to  be  found.  It  is  equally  important  to  strengthen  the 
institutions  that  safeguard  respect  for  the  rule  of  law 
and to remove the underlying causes of conflict.
The lack of decent prospects or equal opportunities 
drives  many  young  people  into  the  arms  of  ruthless 
terrorist  organizations.  Discrimination  and  exclusion 
are the root of much evil in the world. That is why we 
need  a  three-dimensional  approach:  a  combination 
of  defence,  development  and  diplomacy,  of  which  the 
Netherlands has many years of experience. For example, 
we have made it a top priority to stimulate job creation 
in  Africa  and  to  assist  young  African  entrepreneurs, 
and we are increasing our support for programmes to 
promote stability in fragile States.
The  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  is  proud  to  be 
home  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  the  only 
principal  organ  of  the  United  Nations  located  outside 
New  York.  The  Hague  is  the  place  where  global 
peace, justice and security are defended by a range of 
international organizations, including the International 
Criminal Court and the Organization for the Prohibition 
of Chemical Weapons.
A  key  feature  of  a  legal  order  is  the  absence  of 
impunity.  Violence  must  never  be  allowed  to  prevail. 
Lawlessness  must  never  become  the  norm.  Anyone 
who strives for justice will find our Kingdom on their 
side.  Injustice  hurts  like  an  open  wound.  Hundreds 
of  families  from  10  countries,  including  Malaysia, 
Australia and the Netherlands, still grieve every day for 
the loved ones they lost in the Malaysia Airlines Flight 
MH-17 air disaster. They await the results of Security 
Council resolution 2166 (2014). That resolution is very 
clear: it demands that those responsible for this incident 
be  held  to  account  and  that  all  States  cooperate  fully 
with  efforts  to  establish  accountability.  The  Dutch 
Government will work tirelessly, together with all the 
countries and organizations concerned, until justice is 
done with regard to this tragedy.
Peace, justice and development are closely linked. 
They are a trinity, as tied to each other as the blades on 
a  windmill.  To  achieve  lasting  progress,  all  three  are 
essential.  So  our  Kingdom  welcomes  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, which will focus the efforts of the 
international  community  over  the  next  15  years.  And 
we  will  put  our  hearts  and  souls  into  helping  ensure 
their success.
There  is  still  not  enough  focus  on  the  positive 
role  that  women  can  play.  Even  in  the  harshest  and 
most  hopeless  circumstances,  women  often  have  the 
strength to go on and to find practical ways to improve 
the lives of their families and communities. Promoting 
equal  rights  and  opportunities  for  women  is  actually 
sustainable  development  in  action.  Any  organization 
that wants to remain relevant must adapt to new times 
and  circumstances.  It  is  especially  important  for 
institutions that stand for shared values and continuity 
to  critically  examine  their  own  performance  and 
to  ask  themselves:  “Are  our  working  methods  still 
appropriate?” Without such self-reflection they risk the 
gradual erosion of their relevance and effectiveness.
For  the  United  Nations  and  the  Security  Council 
this  has,  after  70  years,  become  an  urgent  issue.  The 
Security Council needs to be able to act more boldly in 
the face of large-scale atrocities. Greater restraint in the 
use of vetoes would help. We warmly welcome France’s 
initiative in that regard. The Council’s legitimacy is also 
under  pressure.  If  part  of  the  global  population  feels 
insufficiently  represented  by  it,  the  Security  Council 
cannot properly fulfil its primary role as a global body 
for safeguarding peace and security and for resolving 
conflicts. Africa, in particular, is underrepresented, but 
the voices of other regions and countries are not being 
heard enough either. This needs to change.
15-29265
45/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
The  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  believes  in  the 
power  of  empathy  and  dialogue.  It  is  not  always  the 
loudest voices that speak the deepest truths. In fact, it 
is often the small Member States that show us the way 
forward.  One  example  is  the  longtime  plea  by  small 
island  States  for  a  far  more  active  global  approach  to 
climate  change  and  marine  pollution.  They  feel  the 
urgency like no other. Fortunately — finally — more 
and more large countries are developing concrete action 
plans.
The Kingdom of the Netherlands knows how crucial 
this is. Three of our countries — Aruba, Curaçao and 
Saint  Maarten  —  are  small  island  States,  and  three 
other Caribbean islands are special municipalities of the 
Netherlands.  With  its  centuries  of  water-management 
experience, the Netherlands is one of the best-protected 
deltas in the world, investing billions to help mitigate 
the effects of climate change. That is why we intend to 
make sure our voice is heard at the twenty-first session 
of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  in  Paris 
later this year, and we will continue pressing for cleaner 
oceans.
Our  guiding  principle  is  simple  —  consider  the 
interests of all countries, large and small. Forget might 
is  right.  We  believe  right  is  might.  This  also  forms 
the  basis  of  our  candidacy  for  a  seat  on  the  Security 
Council  for  the  2017-2018  term.  We  are  passionate 
about serving the entire international community at the 
United Nations level as a partner for peace, justice and 
development.
For  my  wife  and  me,  this  has  a  very  personal 
significance. For seven years I had the honour of being 
the  Chair  of  the  Secretary-General’s  Advisory  Board 
on Water and Sanitation. My wife remains his Special 
Advocate for Inclusive Finance for Development. Two 
years  ago,  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  spoke  at 
the centennial celebrations of the Peace Palace in The 
Hague. He said, “Here in The Hague, you help sustain 
and expand the rule of law. You bring the rule of law to 
life.” We took those warm words not merely as a great 
compliment,  but  also  as  an  inspirational  challenge, 
a  solemn  task,  which  we  aim  to  continue  fulfilling, 
together with all Member States in The Hague, in New 
York and all over the world.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the King of the Kingdom of 
the Netherlands for the statement he has just made. 
His  Majesty  King  Willem-Alexander,  King  of  the 
Kingdom of the Netherlands, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Nursultan Nazarbayev, President of 
the Republic of Kazakhstan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Kazakhstan.
Mr.  Nursultan  Nazarbayev,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nursultan  Nazarbayev, 
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Nazarbayev (spoke in Kazakh; English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  In  this  seventieth 
anniversary  year,  it  is  fitting  that  we  reflect  on  the 
profound hopes of the founders of the United Nations. 
This  universal  Organization  has  already  achieved 
historic  goals  of  universal  significance.  First,  for 
seven decades our planet has lived without world wars. 
Secondly, we have witnessed large-scale decolonization. 
Seventy years ago, the United Nations was established 
by 51 States at a time when the majority of the world 
still  consisted  of  colonies  and  dependent  territories. 
Today, the world community includes 193 independent 
countries.  Thirdly,  the  United  Nations  has  become  a 
universal platform for dialogue, which is essential for 
the  sake  of  security  and  development.  In  the  United 
Nations,  humankind  recognizes  its  unity  in  diversity 
and the need for shared participation in shaping the fate 
of our planet. The generation that founded the United 
Nations  was  wise  enough  to  look  far  into  the  future. 
The world today is reaping the benefits of their dreams 
and hard work.
supports 
all 
trust 
in 
initiatives 
Kazakhstan 
law.  For  seven  decades, 
aimed 
at  restoring 
international  relations  and 
strengthening  peace  and  security  on  the  basis  of 
international 
the  world 
community  has  tried  to  find  an  effective  formula  for 
resolving  military  conflicts.  However,  the  number  of 
conflicts has not decreased. Rather, conflicts are often 
transforming  into  more  sophisticated  and  complex 
forms  of  international  terrorism,  as  may  occur  in  a 
climate of State collapse.
46/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
Humankind  needs  to  shift  its  focus  from  routine 
conflict  prevention  and  post-conflict  rehabilitation 
to  a  new  development  strategy  that  would  make  such 
conflicts meaningless. To that end, we should find the 
courage to look beyond the present to the time when the 
United  Nations  will  celebrate  its  centenary.  I  believe 
that,  in  the  next  thirty  years,  the  civilized  world  will 
find the necessary wisdom and will to cut through the 
Gordian  knot  of  wars  and  conflicts.  Our  central  task 
in  the  twenty-first  century  should  be  to  implement  a 
strategy that will, once and for all, eliminate the threat 
of war and its causes. To that end, I propose that, for 
the centenary of the United Nations, agreement should 
be  reached  on  a  2045  global  strategic  initiative  plan, 
whose core idea will be to launch a new trend in global 
development  based  on  equitable  conditions  in  which 
all nations have equal access to global infrastructure, 
resources  and  markets  and  accountability  for  human 
development is comprehensively maintained.
First,  I  propose  that  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  be  transformed  into  a  global  development 
council.  Membership  of  the  new  body  would  consist 
of  Member  States  elected  by  the  General  Assembly 
and  the  heads  of  all  the  United  Nations  specialized 
agencies,  including  the  International  Monetary  Fund. 
The  new  Council  should  be  tasked  with  becoming  a 
global economic regulator. Global projects carried out 
by  such  a  Council  would  aim  to  promote  worldwide 
economic  growth.  That  would  go  a  long  way  towards 
decreasing  the  risks  of  global  crises  and  to  ensuring 
responsible  behaviour  by  States,  while  enabling  them 
to maintain their national economic and social policies.
We consider the idea of a world anti-crisis plan, the 
draft of which is being actively discussed on the margins 
of the Astana Economic Forum, to be very timely. The 
most pressing and serious global challenges — terrorism, 
the  implosion  of  States,  migration  and  other  negative 
issues — are the result of the economic crisis, poverty, 
illiteracy and unemployment.
To tackle the global crisis, we need to start with clear 
rules for the issuance of and trade in the world’s reserve 
currencies, because they do not now meet the criteria of 
justice, democracy, competitiveness, effectiveness and 
international  control.  In  the  twenty-first  century,  our 
world  needs  new,  high-quality  financial  instruments. 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  need  to  join 
forces  to  create  a  new  supranational  currency  that 
should  be  relevant  to  the  targets  and  tasks  of  global 
sustainable development and prosperity.
Secondly, in the year of the seventieth anniversary 
of  the  atomic  bombings  of  Hiroshima  and  Nagasaki, 
I  urge  that  a  world  without  nuclear  weapons  should 
become the main goal of humankind for the twenty-first 
century. I propose that we adopt, under the auspices of 
the  United  Nations,  a  universal  declaration  aimed  at 
achieving a world free of nuclear weapons. Kazakhstan 
was the first country in history to close down a nuclear 
test site, renouncing the world’s fourth-largest nuclear 
arsenal, and has contributed to the creation of a nuclear-
weapon-free  zone  in  Central  Asia.  It  is  essential  to 
establish nuclear-weapon-free zones in other regions of 
the world, particularly in the Middle East. The nuclear 
Powers must provide guarantees of the non-use of force 
to  all  countries  that  renounce  possession  of  nuclear 
weapons.
In  2013,  we  initiated  two  rounds  of  talks  on  the 
Iranian  nuclear  programme  in  Almaty.  We  welcome 
the signing of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
regarding Iran’s nuclear programme. It is essential today 
to guarantee the right of States to peaceful nuclear energy 
and  access  to  nuclear  fuel.  That  is  why  we  supported 
and signed an agreement with the International Atomic 
Energy Agency on the establishment of a low-enriched 
uranium  fuel  bank  in  Kazakhstan.  That  was  an  event 
of global significance. The world should acknowledge 
it  as  an  important  measure  for  the  safe  and  peaceful 
use  of  the  atom,  as  it  means  that  countries  wishing 
to  develop  nuclear  energy  no  longer  need  to  enrich 
uranium 
the 
creation  of  a  global  anti-nuclear-weapons  movement 
an important task. Every person on the planet can and 
must contribute to a nuclear test ban.
themselves.  Moreover,  we  consider 
Thirdly,  a  further  danger  for  us  is  the  erosion  of 
international  law  and  the  weakening  of  the  role  of 
global  institutions.  It  is  important  to  remember  that 
the Charter of the United Nations was written with the 
blood of millions of victims of world wars and armed 
conflicts. Any violation of its articles, especially with 
respect  to  ensuring  the  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity of States, may cause humankind to repeat the 
tragic mistakes of the past.
It  is  crucial  to  prevent  the  arbitrary  imposition 
of  sanctions,  which  contradicts  both  the  Charter  and 
international law. I am convinced that the right to impose 
international  sanctions,  which  can  adversely  affect 
the  well-being  of  millions  of  people,  should  remain 
the  exclusive  prerogative  of  the  Security  Council. 
Failure  to  comply  with  that  principle  undermines  the 
15-29265
47/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
foundation  of  the  modern  world  order  and  is  a  relic 
of  the  Cold  War.  I  would  like  to  stress  that  there  is 
no  alternative  to  the  United  Nations  as  a  universal 
Organization.  Moreover,  countries’  compliance  with 
their international obligations remains the cornerstone 
of the modern world order.
Kazakhstan 
has 
advocated 
consistently 
a 
peaceful  settlement  of  the  Ukrainian  crisis  and  the 
full  implementation  of  the  Minsk  agreements  by  the 
parties to the conflict. Today it is vital to make every 
effort  to  restore  dialogue,  mutual  understanding  and 
trust in international relations. I therefore propose the 
convening  in  2016  of  a  United  Nations  conference  at 
the highest level with the aim of reaffirming the basic 
principles of international law.
Fourthly,  the  threat  of  terrorism  and  religious 
extremism  has  become  global  in  scale.  I  propose  the 
establishment, under the auspices of the United Nations, 
of  a  unified  global  network  to  counter  international 
terrorism and extremism. To achieve that objective, it is 
necessary to develop and adopt a comprehensive United 
Nations instrument on combating terrorism.
Fifthly, in support of the United Nations initiative 
on sustainable energy for all, we will hold, in 2017 in 
Astana, an international exhibition on the theme of the 
energy of the future. We invite all States to participate 
fully in the exhibition. Looking to the future and using 
the  infrastructure  to  be  put  in  place  for  Expo  2017,  I 
suggest  opening  in  Astana  an  international  centre  for 
the development of green technologies and investment 
projects under the auspices of the United Nations.
A major step in realizing the 2045 global strategic 
initiative  plan  could  be  the  development,  under  the 
auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  of  the  concept  on 
which a new future is to be based. Seventy years after 
the founding of the United Nations, we need to clearly 
define  the  goals  of  the  next  stage  in  the  evolution  of 
humankind. I believe that that new future will be about 
ways to deliver nuclear energy and water, address food 
security,  build  trust  and  mutual  understanding  and 
carry out reforms.
Kazakhstan  has  been  and  will  continue  to  be 
a  mediator  in  efforts  to  help  conflicting  parties  in 
Eurasia to find a peaceful solution. The directions and 
principles  I  have  outlined  constitute  the  core  of  our 
campaign  to  become  a  non-permanent  member  of  the 
Security  Council  for  the  biennium  2017-2018.  I  call 
on  all  those  participating  in  the  seventieth  session  to 
support our country’s candidacy.
Seventy  years  ago,  when  the  United  Nations  was 
established as a replacement for the defunct League of 
Nations, which had been located in Geneva, the decision 
was  made  to  establish  its  headquarters  in  New  York. 
That  was  connected  to  the  fact  that,  at  the  time,  the 
role of the Western hemisphere in international affairs 
was  still  in  the  ascendant.  The  centre  of  economic 
development  had  also  moved  from  the  Old  World  of 
Europe to the New World of the United States, in New 
York.
Our world has changed a great deal since then. In 
the  twenty-first  century,  the  pole  of  global  growth  is 
shifting  to  Asia,  the  world’s  largest  continent,  where 
two  thirds  of  the  planet’s  population  lives  and  where 
enormous  resources  are  concentrated.  The  powerful 
rise  of  Asia’s  developing  economies  has  introduced 
a  new  reality  into  global  processes.  We  need  to  use 
that  historic  change  and  opportunity  to  give  a  new 
boost to relations between States. With that in mind, I 
propose that Member States consider the possibility of 
transferring United Nations Headquarters to Asia. I am 
hopeful that this and Kazakhstan’s other proposals will 
be acceptable to the community of nations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Kazakhstan for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Nursultan  Nazarbayev,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Enrique Peña Nieto, President of 
the United Mexican States
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the United Mexican 
States.
Mr.  Enrique  Peña  Nieto,  President  of  the  United 
Mexican  States,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Enrique  Peña  Nieto, 
President  of  the  United  Mexican  States,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President Peña Nieto (spoke in Spanish): Seventy 
years ago, the United Nations was founded as a collective 
48/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
response  to  the  horror  of  war.  For  seven  decades,  the 
peoples of the United Nations have been determined to 
implement the highest ideals of international peace and 
security, human rights and social progress.
The ongoing efforts of the United Nations in favour 
of  these  lofty  goals  are  reflected  in  the  peacekeeping 
operations and the actions of such prestigious agencies 
as the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United 
Nations,  the  United  Nations  Children’s  Fund,  the 
United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural 
Organization,  the  World  Health  Organization  and  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme.  It  must  be 
said clearly — the world would not be the same without 
the United Nations, symbol of solidarity and hope for a 
better future.
Since 1945, Mexicans have maintained the greatest 
commitment  to  this  forum,  which  is  the  greatest 
multilateral  mechanism  there  is,  championing  peace, 
nuclear  disarmament  and  humankind’s  loftiest  goals. 
For example, following the Cuban missile crisis, Mexico 
promoted  the  Treaty  for  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear 
Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean. Thanks 
to this agreement, the Latin American and Caribbean 
nations became the first nuclear-weapon-free zone in a 
densely populated region. 
Mexicans also have a long tradition as a mediator in 
conflicts in our region, always promoting the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes.  In  the  light  of  this  history, 
we  welcome  the  substantial  progress  in  the  peace 
process in Colombia, as well as the recent restoration 
of  diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States. Consistent with this new geopolitical reality, we 
reiterate the call for ending the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed on Cuba since 1962.
To continue contributing to peace among societies 
of  the  world,  Mexico  recently  pushed  for  the  Arms 
Trade Treaty, which is now a reality. The Treaty is the 
basis of an international regime of conventional arms 
control,  which  prevents  illegal  traffic  and  makes  the 
legal trade in arms more transparent.
Mexico  is  a  nation  fully  committed  to  upholding 
the  law,  human  rights  and  peace.  We  have  fully 
assumed  the  great  responsibility  of  being  a  member 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  of  the  United  Nations 
for  the  2014-2016  triennium.  Today,  my  country  has 
some  of  the  most  advanced  legislation  in  favour  of 
human  rights  and  works  to  ensure  that  it  is  enforced 
throughout  the  national  territory.  Moreover,  I  am 
convinced  —  and  the  facts  bear  this  out  —  that  the 
experience  and  contributions  of  the  international 
community have helped to further our domestic efforts 
in the field. The imminent visit to Mexico of the United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  is  a 
clear  demonstration  of  our  commitment  and  will  to 
continue to join efforts with the international system. 
Another  clear  example  of  our  responsibility  at 
the  global  level  was  the  decision  to  participate  in 
peacekeeping  operations.  Our  historic  resolve  has 
meant  that  my  country  has  put  its  experience  in  the 
field  of  humanitarian  assistance  at  the  service  of  the 
United Nations. The foregoing are just some examples 
of the close and positive relationship that Mexico has 
had with the United Nations for 70 years. 
As a result of growing inequalities, an unrelenting 
global  economic  crisis  and  the  social  frustration 
resulting therefrom, the world today is exposed to the 
threat of new populist movements, some on the left and 
others on the right, but all equally risky. The twentieth 
century  has  already  lived  through  and  suffered  the 
consequences  of  the  actions  of  individuals  who, 
devoid  of  understanding  and  a  sense  of  responsibility 
and  without  a  moral  compass,  chose  to  divide  their 
populations.  Societies  must  be  vigilant  against  those 
who  prey  on  fears  and  worries  and  those  who  sow 
hatred and rancour with the sole purpose of satisfying 
political agendas and personal ambitions.
In this second decade of the twenty-first century, 
we must not repeat the mistakes that caused the world 
so  much  pain  in  the  past.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  time 
to  rescue  and  support  the  principles  that  define  us  as 
people:  the  lofty  values    that  gave  birth  to  the  United 
Nations,  namely,  peace,  solidarity  and  respect  for 
human  rights  —  respect  for  migrants,  respect  for 
women, respect for all races and religions, respect for 
diversity and political pluralism, but, above all, respect 
for human dignity. That is what our societies deserve.
True, today’s world is complex, uncertain, almost 
beyond  our  reach.  But  division  is  not  a  solution.  We 
must again appreciate the true worth of trust— trust in 
constructive work, trust in others, trust in institutions 
and, above all, trust in ourselves and our nations.
To  build,  one  must  add;  to  achieve,  one  must 
persevere. Indeed, 2015 is proving to us that nations can 
achieve transcendent, bold and innovative agreements 
that  benefit  the  world’s  population.  The  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1),  the 
15-29265
49/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International 
Conference on Financing for Development, the Sendai 
Framework  for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction  2015-2030 
and the work leading up to the twenty-first session of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change  on Climate 
Change are of historic importance and promote a new 
paradigm — a change in the way nations think and act.
The way in which the 2030 Agenda was constructed 
should  be  welcomed.  It  was  compiled  collectively 
and  unanimously,  from  the  dialogues  and  proposals 
submitted by Member States. The Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda, adopted at the third International Conference 
on  Financing  for  Development,  held  in  Ethiopia,  will 
enable States to finance sustainable development, which 
is the foundation of a revitalized global partnership, as 
the Secretary-General himself has stated. For its part, 
the  Sendai  Framework  provides  guidelines  for  the 
next 15 years that will give the people of the world an 
opportunity to enjoy a more secure home. 
As  for  the  upcoming  twenty-first  Conference  of 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change,  there  are  high  expectations  that 
we will be able to adopt binding commitments in Paris. 
Undoubtedly,  climate  change  is  one  of  the  greatest 
challenges  of  the  day,  and  its  solution  requires  the 
clear  and  firm  political  will  of  every  country.  In  that 
regard, on 27 March Mexico introduced its nationally 
determined contribution, and was the first developing 
country to do so. From this rostrum, I reiterate our call 
on all nations of the world to act with determination and 
vision in response to the challenge of climate change.
Encouraged by the major agreements of 2015, we are 
now moving forward on the reform and modernization 
of the Security Council. The design of that important 
mechanism, created in 1945, has already demonstrated 
significant  limitations.  It  is  unacceptable  that  the 
power of the veto has been used for exclusively national 
purposes, thereby holding back potential international 
action. The permanent members of the Security Council 
have a special responsibility for international peace and 
security, which they must assume at all times, especially 
when  the  most  basic  human  rights  are  violated.  With 
that objective in mind, we have supported the initiative 
of  France  to  restrict  the  use  of  the  veto  in  cases  of 
serious  breach  of  international  law  and  human  rights 
violations, such as war crimes, crimes against humanity 
and genocide. The aim is to ensure that United Nations 
resolutions are more effective, responsible and, above 
all, more representative of the ideals of humankind.
In  the  global  era,  no  country  is  immune  to  what 
happens  elsewhere  in  the  world.  We  cannot  remain 
indifferent to the suffering of entire populations. It is 
a  fact  that  our  time  is  characterized  by  the  migration 
of millions of people seeking better living conditions. 
Unfortunately,  on  all  continents  and  in  all  areas, 
the  migrant  experience  is  one  of  risk,  rejection, 
discrimination  and  abuse.  Those  conditions  are 
aggravated  when,  because  of  ignorance,  bad  faith, 
racism  or  pure  political  opportunism,  migrants  and 
their  children  are  stigmatized  and  blamed  for  the 
destination  country’s  own  difficulties.  We  must  not 
allow that injustice to continue. We must not allow the 
democracies of the world to be robbed of their pluralistic 
and  inclusive  spirit.  In  the  light  of  those  visions  of 
exclusion and discrimination, we must unite our efforts 
to  create  a  global  scheme  to  protect  migrants’  rights 
commensurate with the challenges we are experiencing. 
Around  the  world,  millions  of  migrants  require  a 
collective and effective response — a global response 
that should come from the United Nations. 
Similarly, given the scarce results achieved during 
the  past  decades,  humankind  must  reassess  its  vision 
of the global drug problem. In Mexico, we consider it 
indispensable to have a more effective, just and humane 
international  response.  In  2016,  during  the  upcoming 
special session of the General Assembly on drugs, the 
international  community  must  demonstrate  collective 
willingness  to  break  its  inertia  and  develop  policies 
that put the well-being and dignity of individuals at the 
heart of our attention.
Ensuring  the  purposes  and  principles  that  gave 
birth  to  the  United  Nations  is  a  responsibility  that 
unites and commits us all. Mexico publicly expresses 
its  appreciation  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  his  work  at  the  head  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  is  an 
overwhelming example of the inclusive leadership that 
the world requires.
On  this,  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United 
Nations, Mexico reaffirms its unwavering commitment 
to the Organization that unites nations and calls upon 
them to work together. We do so in the conviction that 
multilateralism  is  the  ideal  way  to  overcome  global 
problems.  We  do  so  in  the  conviction  that  through 
support  for  the  United  Nations  we  can  help  build  a 
better future for all humankind.
50/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the United 
Mexican States for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Enrique  Peña  Nieto,  President  of  the  United 
Mexican  States,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Aníbal António Cavaco Silva, 
President of the Republic of Portugal
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Portugal.
Mr.  Aníbal  António  Cavaco  Silva,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Portugal,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Aníbal  António  Cavaco 
Silva,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Portugal,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Cavaco  Silva  (spoke  in  Portuguese, 
English text provided by the delegation): At the outset, I 
would like to congratulate the President of the General 
Assembly at its seventieth session on his election and to 
express my good wishes for the success of the General 
Assembly’s work in the seventieth-anniversary year of 
the United Nations. I would also like to express my deep 
appreciation for the work of the Secretary-General. As 
ever, he can continue to count on Portugal’s support.
The  establishment  of  the  United  Nations  marked 
a unique time in the collective history of humankind. 
The  pursuit  of  lasting  peace,  development  and  the 
respect  for  human  rights,  the  founding  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Organization  that  we  still  look  to 
today,  after  70  years,  are  major  achievements  of  the 
contemporary world. The Charter of the United Nations 
and  the  principles  and  values  that  it  encapsulates 
remain a reference and a sign of hope for our collective 
future. I welcome the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), which is an 
unparalleled  opportunity  to  usher  in  an  era  in  which 
poverty is eradicated, leading to a world of justice and 
dignity for all. 
The year 2015 is also key for negotiations on climate 
change. Seventeen years after Kyoto, the international 
community must be ambitious in fighting that particular 
threat  to  its  sustainable  development.  It  is  imperative 
that  at  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 
Paris in December, we reach a lasting agreement that is 
global, fair and binding for all. 
Closely related to climate change, the issue of the 
oceans holds a crucial importance for Portugal in the 
light of its history, its geography and its identity. In June, 
my  country  organized  an  international  event  on  the 
use of the oceans, Blue Week, which brought together 
more  than  70  countries  and  international  institutions. 
It  offered  an  occasion  for  open  debate  and  strategic 
reflection  on  the  challenges  of  global  management  of 
the oceans and the responsible use of their potential. 
We continue to take a strong interest in deepening 
the  multilateral  dialogue  on  the  sustainability  of  the 
oceans and enhancing the overall efforts of the United 
Nations. Portugal had the honour to co-chair the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group  of  the  Whole  on  the  Regular  Process 
for  Global  Reporting  and  Assessment  of  the  State  of 
the  Marine  Environment,  including  Socioeconomic 
Aspects in setting up a reliable and detailed system of 
information on the marine environment. The issuance 
of  the  first  global  integrated  marine  assessment  (see 
A/70/112) is a step in the right direction. Members can 
rely on the engagement of Portugal in the preparation 
of a legally binding instrument on the conservation and 
sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas that go 
beyond national jurisdiction. 
Portugal’s course of action has been geared towards 
the defence of the universal and individual nature of all 
human rights — not only civil and political rights but 
also  economic,  social  and  cultural  rights.  Combating 
violence  against  women  is  a  clear  priority  in  that 
context.  I  draw  attention  to  the  alarming  number  of 
cases of domestic violence that span the most diverse 
societies  and  social  strata,  which  cannot  continue 
to  go  unpunished.  I  invite  all  States  to  step  up  their 
efforts  to  put  an  end  to  that  scourge,  and  I  hope  that 
the relative indicator will be taken into account in the 
overall assessment of compliance with the Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  I  also  stress  the  importance  that 
we  attach  to  children’s  rights,  including  the  right  to 
education and to youth policies.
At a time when we are witnessing the proliferation 
of  violent  clashes  in  a  number  of  regions,  it  must  be 
emphasized  that  no  conflict,  no  matter  how  complex 
it  may  be,  can  possibly  justify  barbarism,  whether 
by  States  or  by  non-State  parties.  Human  rights  are 
the  common  heritage  of  humankind  that  we  all  have 
15-29265
51/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
an  obligation  to  defend,  regardless  of  geography.  The 
Security  Council  plays  a  key  role  in  that  context.  In 
order to fulfil its mandate in the most effective manner, 
it  should  mirror  the  realities  of  our  world.  That  will 
require  extending  membership  in  both  categories  and 
reviewing its working methods. 
The  tragic  humanitarian  situation  in  Syria,  Iraq, 
Libya and many other conflict settings should prompt 
us to act in a supportive and responsible manner. Some 
of  those  crises,  particularly  in  Syria,  have  already 
claimed  many  thousands  of  human  lives  and  given 
rise  to  one  of  the  largest  flows  of  refugees  since  the 
Second World War. The resolution of those crises can 
no longer remain hostage to blockages that prolong and 
aggravate the misery and suffering of vast populations. 
In  line  with  its  consistently  humanitarian  tradition, 
Portugal  has  demonstrated  dedicated  solidarity  from 
the very beginning, as demonstrated by its willingness 
to  welcome  several  thousand  people  in  need  of 
international protection. 
I take this opportunity to commend the Office of 
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 
which  has  epitomized 
the  humanitarian  values 
enshrined in the Charter. The dignity of human life is 
an absolute value that we have an obligation to respect 
and protect. On the other hand, for some years we have 
found  ourselves  facing  the  threat  of  terrorism,  which 
continues to assume increasingly barbaric and worrying 
forms. That threat and its protagonists require strong, 
concerted  responses  and  a  determined  fight  on  the 
part  of  the  international  community.  Such  responses 
should also address the underlying forces that lead to 
radicalization  and  violent  extremism,  which  require 
the involvement of States, international organizations, 
religious communities and civil society organizations. 
I must also express our concern about the deadlock 
affecting the peace process in the Middle East. There 
will be no lasting peace without a fair resolution of the 
Palestinian issue that also ensures Israel’s security. We 
urge  the  parties  to  resume  the  peace  talks,  as  we  are 
convinced that the only solution to the conflict will be 
the  creation,  based  on  United  Nations  resolutions,  of 
two States, living side by side in democracy, peace and 
security. 
I welcome the agreement reached on Iran’s nuclear 
programme.  It  is  now  up  to  all  parties  involved  to 
ensure its full implementation.
Africa holds a special place in Portuguese foreign 
policy.  My  country  has  key  partners  in  Africa,  with 
which  it  maintains  close  relations  in  the  most  varied 
fields,  ranging  from  political  dialogue  to  economic 
links,  from  the  approach  to  security  issues  to  the 
establishment  of  mutually  beneficial  partnerships.  A 
number  of  African  countries  where  Portuguese  is  the 
official  language  —  Mozambique,  Cabo  Verde,  Sao 
Tome and Principe and Angola — are celebrating the 
fortieth  anniversary  of  their  independence  this  year, 
and Portugal and the Portuguese people are involved in 
that important historical event. 
The  situation  in  Guinea-Bissau  deserves  special 
mention.  I  trust  its  political  leaders  to  recognize  the 
essential  value  of  political  stability  and  the  ability 
to  work  together  in  order  to  pursue  the  necessary 
reforms,  including  in  the  security  sector,  in  the  fight 
against  impunity  and  in  socioeconomic  development 
projects.  That  would  be  the  required  framework  for 
the  international  community  to  be  able  to  fulfil  its 
commitments  to  cooperation,  made  in  March  at  the 
Brussels Conference. The democratic maturity that the 
people of Guinea-Bissau have demonstrated is sufficient 
reason for the international community to remain united 
and  coordinated  in  supporting  that  country.  We  also 
remain engaged on matters concerning maritime safety, 
especially in the Gulf of Guinea. We have participated 
in  the  development  of  international  support  strategies 
and  have  strengthened  our  bilateral  cooperation  with 
the African States and the regional organizations. 
Portugal  is  strengthening  its  relations  with  Latin 
American States. We have added a mutual willingness 
to know each other better and to deepen our political 
and  economic  relations  to  our  historical  and  cultural 
ties.  I  very  much  welcome  the  positive  developments 
surrounding 
in 
Colombia and the normalization of diplomatic relations 
between Cuba and the United States of America.
the  ongoing  peace  negotiations 
The Portuguese language is a global, economically 
relevant  communication  vehicle.  Some  250  million 
people from Asia to Europe and from Africa to Latin 
America  express  themselves  in  Portuguese  in  their 
everyday  lives,  in  commerce  and  business  and  in 
cultural  and  social  networks.  It  is  also  an  official 
or  a  working 
international 
organizations, including in some of the United Nations 
specialized  agencies.  The  legitimate  ambition  of  the 
Community  of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries  is  to 
in  several 
language 
52/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
see the Portuguese language recognized as an official 
language of the United Nations.
As  we  celebrate 
the  seventieth  anniversary 
of  the  United  Nations,  I  reiterate  the  commitment 
expressed  here  in  2008.  Portugal,  60  years  now  into 
its membership in the United Nations, remains firmly 
committed  to  effective  multilateralism.  It  participates 
in  many  peacekeeping  operations,  has  been  in  the 
Security Council three times, is currently a member of 
the Human Rights Council and fiercely stands by the 
guiding  principles  of  the  Charter  in  its  international 
actions.  In  a  globalized,  interdependent  world  such 
as  the  one  in  which  we  live,  only  strong  multilateral 
institutions can ensure the fundamental values of peace, 
human rights, sustainable development, democracy and 
respect for international law.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Portugal for the statement he has just made. 
President Aníbal António Cavaco Silva, President 
of the Republic of Portugal, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr.  Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Prime 
Minister of Denmark
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Denmark. 
Mr.  Lars  Løkke  Rasmussen,  Prime  Minister  of 
Denmark, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, 
Prime Minister of Denmark, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly. 
Mr.  Rasmussen  (Denmark):  Seventy  years  ago, 
this Organization was born out of the chaos and ruins 
of  the  Second  World  War.  It  was  born  with  the  hope 
and a vision that the future would be better and more 
peaceful than the past. Small and large countries signed 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations;  my  own  country 
was  signatory  number  50.  It  was  a  commitment  to 
solving  common  problems  through  cooperation  and 
dialogue. How is today’s world compared to that of our 
grandparents? The answer is simple. Much progress has 
been made. 
We  live  in  a  world  that  is  wealthier.  Millions 
have  been  lifted  out  of  poverty.  There  is  a  dramatic 
increase in the number of children — and in particular 
girls  —  attending  schools.  We  continue  to  witness 
horrible  conflicts  in  many  parts  of  the  world,  but  the 
number  and  magnitude  of  armed  conflicts  between 
States have decreased. Our fight against deadly diseases 
has saved millions. This is one side of the coin. We also 
live in a changing world. Conflicts remain the greatest 
threat to human development. The number of refugees 
and displaced persons is growing at an alarming speed. 
Violent  extremism  is  spreading.  Human  rights  are 
being violated. Our planet is under stress due to scarce 
resources and climate change. That is the other side of 
the coin. 
The world is complex, as it has always been. There 
are no simple solutions and there never were. We need 
to  engage  actively  and  cooperate  closely  to  address  
the challenges today, as we did 70 years ago. From my 
perspective, there are three main priorities for the United 
Nations in the coming years. First, peace and security. 
Like many others in my generation, my political view 
of the world was shaped by 1989. The wall came down. 
The Iron Curtain disappeared. Today, once again, the 
world faces a situation where cooperation and dialogue 
are  all  too  often  replaced  by  force  and  violence.  We 
must  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  can  effectively 
provide security in the face of ever more complex crises 
and threats. 
In Ukraine, we have seen completely unacceptable 
violations  of  international  law  and  principles  of 
sovereignty and territorial integrity. In Syria, civilians 
suffer from horrific abuses committed by the terrorist  
organization, the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant 
(ISIL)  and  by  the  Al-Assad  regime.  The  Danish 
Government continues to support efforts for a political 
solution  to  the  conflict,  and  we  are  proud  to  be  a 
member of the international coalition against ISIL. We 
need a strong and unified response to violent extremism 
and  terrorism,  not  just  in  Syria  and  Iraq,  but  also  in 
parts  of  Africa,  where  violent  extremism  and  armed 
conflicts  are  growing.  Denmark  will  do  its  part.  We 
plan to increase our contribution to the United Nations 
Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in 
Mali.
Massive refugee and migration flows are a visible 
consequence  of  these  conflicts.  Almost  60  million 
people are fleeing their homes. We have an international 
responsibility  to  provide  the  necessary  protection 
15-29265
53/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
for  refugees.  Many  of  them  have  no  food,  medicine, 
schools for their children or hope for the future. They 
need  our  support.  Denmark  takes  this  responsibility 
very  seriously.  Last  year,  we  were  the  second-largest 
recipient of Syrian refugees, per capita, in the European 
Union. 
I  also  welcome  the  initiative  of  the  Secretary-
General to strengthen United Nations peace operations, 
but we need more than Blue Helmets to ensure lasting 
peace.  We  need  a  Security  Council  that  is  ready  to 
take the necessary decisions to maintain international 
peace  and  security,  and  effectively  address  conflicts 
in  a  timely  manner  and  that  reflects  the  world  as  it 
is  today.  The  international  community  must  have  the 
right  instruments  to  adequately  tackle  the  situation, 
and we must keep an open mind when we evaluate the 
instruments we have at hand.
Many  people  migrate  for  economic  reasons, 
in  search  of  a  better  life,  and  their  hopes  are  indeed 
understandable.  But  mass  migration  is  obviously  an 
immense challenge for our societies, our international 
cooperation and our solidarity. First and foremost, mass 
migration  is  a  global  challenge,  and  we  must  address 
its root causes. People migrate because they have lost 
hope at home. Inclusive economic growth in developing 
countries  should  be  our  common  goal.  There  are  no 
easy solutions.
The  United  Nations  is  an  important  part  of  the 
answer. Member States have the primary responsibility 
for  development  and  progress  in  their  own  countries. 
But we must all do our part and provide the necessary 
financial  contributions  to  ensure  that  they  succeed. 
Denmark is ready to do its part, as we have done since 
1978.  We  remain  committed  to  the  United  Nations 
target of providing development assistance amounting 
to 0.7 per cent of our gross domestic product. Denmark 
is widely recognized as a leading humanitarian donor, 
and  we  will  continue  to  give  the  area  high  priority. 
Last  week,  my  Government  decided  to  allocate  an 
additional €100 million to humanitarian assistance and 
to  measures  that  support  European  efforts  to  address 
the mass migration from Syria and its neighbourhood. 
I  am  deeply  concerned  about  the  probability  that  the 
humanitarian  needs  associated  with  this  will  far 
outgrow the available financing, and I call on all States 
to increase their humanitarian efforts. The international 
community  must  find  solutions  to  this  extraordinary 
situation.
That  leads  me  to  our  next  priority,  human  rights 
and gender equality. The Charter of the United Nations 
says very clearly that the equal and indispensable rights 
of  all  people  are  the  foundation  of  freedom,  justice 
and peace in the world. The best way to build a better 
world is to unleash the power of the individual for the 
sake of the common good. Today, more people live in 
democracies  than  ever  before,  but  the  lives  of  many 
are  still  threatened  because  of  who  they  are  or  what 
they  believe.  Denmark  has  always  pursued  an  active 
human rights policy, based on dialogue as the key tool 
to progress.
My  Government  is  a  strong  advocate  of  women’s 
rights. Women are key drivers in our efforts to ensure 
sustainable  development  and  end  poverty.  Denmark 
will  have  the  honour  of  hosting  the  Women  Deliver 
Conference in May of next year, and I hope that many 
of those here will join us in Copenhagen. Denmark is 
also engaged in the global fight against torture, and we 
are proud to be part of the Convention against Torture 
Initiative, whose goal is universal ratification and better 
implementation of the Convention by 2024. We call on 
all States to join with us in working for that goal.
To put it clearly, Denmark is entirely committed to 
upholding the core values of the United Nations. That 
is why we have decided to run for a seat on the Human 
Rights  Council  for  the  period  from  2019  to  2021. 
Our  candidacy  enjoys  the  support  of  all  the  Nordic 
countries, and I hope all here today will find us worthy 
of their vote. I can assure them that we will aspire to be 
a strong partner for all in advancing human rights and 
fundamental freedoms.
The third and final major challenge for the United 
Nations  is  implementing  the  development  agenda  and 
effectively  addressing  climate  change.  This  weekend, 
I  had  the  privilege  and  honour  of  co-chairing  the 
Sustainable  Development  Summit.  We  have  adopted 
the  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1),  and  now  we  need  to  act,  through 
national  policies  and  by  supporting  the  countries  that 
need the most help. The Sustainable Development Goals 
carry a multi-trillion-dollar price tag, and that cannot 
be  met  by  Governments  or  aid  alone.  We  need  the 
support of all actors — private enterprises, civil society, 
non-governmental and international organizations and 
many others. We must find new and innovative ways of 
engaging these actors if we are serious about delivering 
on the development agenda.
54/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
That 
it  comes 
true  when 
is  particularly 
to 
addressing  climate  change.  To  give  a  small  example, 
Denmark has established a climate investment fund to 
promote  private  investments  in  developing  countries 
and  emerging  markets.  Danish  pension  savings  now 
contribute to financing Africa’s largest wind farm, in 
Lake Turkana in Kenya. We need more such solutions if 
we are to deliver on the development agenda and reach 
an ambitious, binding climate agreement in Paris later 
this year.
The President returned to the Chair.
The need for an effective United Nations has never 
been greater. If we fail to deal with the enormous tasks 
facing us, there is a risk that we will undermine the key 
values  and  principles  of  the  Charter.  Throughout  the 
history of the United Nations, Denmark has been one 
of the strongest supporters of our world Organization, 
and  that  will  not  change.  I  am  honoured  that  a  Dane 
has assumed the presidency of the General Assembly, 
and my Government is fully committed to supporting 
Mr. Lykketoft in his important work.
Seventy years ago our grandparents had a bold vision. 
They believed it was possible to create a better future 
for the peoples of the world. The achievements during 
those 70 years have been remarkable. This anniversary 
is a historic opportunity to set ambitious goals for the 
future. We have agreed on a new development agenda. 
Now we must act to show our grandchildren that we are 
able  to  deliver  on  our  promises  today,  tomorrow  and 
70 years from now.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Denmark for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Lars  Løkke  Rasmussen,  Prime  Minister  of 
Denmark, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Hailemariam Desalegn, Prime 
Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic 
of Ethiopia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic 
Republic of Ethiopia.
Mr. Hailemariam Desalegn, Prime Minister of the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Hailemariam  Desalegn,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Federal  Democratic  Republic  of 
Ethiopia, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Desalegn (Ethiopia): I would like to begin by 
congratulating you, Mr. President, on your assumption 
of  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  this 
important juncture in the history of the United Nations. 
This  has  indeed  been  a  seminal  year.  Not  only  is  it 
one  in  which  we  are  commemorating  the  seventieth 
anniversary of our only universal Organization, it has 
also been a year when bold actions have been taken for 
the sake of our people and planet. 
like 
I  would  also 
to  express  my  profound 
appreciation  to  your  predecessor,  our  brother  from 
Africa,  who  successfully  steered  the  work  of  this 
body  for  the  past  year,  a  period  that  witnessed  some 
difficult 
intergovernmental  negotiation  processes. 
His  contribution  to  facilitating  those  processes  and 
advancing the agenda of the United Nations was indeed 
significant, and we owe him a debt of gratitude for his 
tireless efforts. I would also like to pay special tribute 
to the Secretary-General for his dedication and tireless 
efforts to realize the aims and purposes of the United 
Nations.
What  we  have  achieved  so  far  this  year  through 
difficult  negotiations  and  compromise,  by  adopting  a 
compact for global partnership within the framework of 
the Addis Ababa Action Agenda in July, as well as the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1)  at  the  historic  Summit  we  have  just  concluded, 
has made it evident that we are indeed potentially at a 
watershed moment in the history of the United Nations. 
We are confident that the same collective resolve will 
be demonstrated by Member States as we take up the 
challenge of an equally transformative change in United 
Nations peace operations.
The  political  will  and  commitment  that  we  have 
demonstrated  in  adopting  the  Addis  Ababa  Action 
Agenda and the 2030 Agenda give us hope and optimism 
that  we  can  secure  a  new  globally  binding  climate 
agreement in Paris in December under the auspices of 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change. In that regard, Mr. President, I would like to 
assure  you  of  my  delegation’s  full  support  in  helping 
you to discharge your heavy responsibilities during this 
momentous and historic year.
15-29265
55/57
A/70/PV.13 
28/09/2015
Ethiopia is indeed proud to be one of the founding 
Members of the United Nations. Although in our hour 
of need we could not count much on the support of the 
League of Nations, of which we were also a member, 
Ethiopia  has  nonetheless  never  lost  confidence  in 
multilateralism and has remained a staunch supporter 
of the principle of collective security enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations. It is on the basis of that 
conviction that Ethiopia has been an active contributor 
to advancing the principles and purposes of the United 
Nations,  including  by  deploying  its  forces  as  part  of 
the Blue Helmets since the Organization’s early days. 
It  gives  us  great  satisfaction  to  note  that  Ethiopia  is 
now the second-largest contributor of troops to United 
Nations  peacekeeping,  and  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  reaffirm  our  unwavering  commitment 
to playing an active role in helping to ensure that the 
United  Nations  becomes  more  effective  and  secures 
greater legitimacy.
As  we  mark  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  our 
Organization, it is only fitting that we take stock of the 
achievements and challenges of the past seven decades 
and draw appropriate lessons from history as we move 
forward. That the world has made tremendous progress 
in  a  wide  range  of  areas  by  advancing  the  noble 
objectives enshrined in the Charter is not in doubt. The 
Organization  has  done  commendable  work  to  foster 
international  cooperation  for  development,  promote 
respect  for  human  rights  and  address  humanitarian 
problems.  Nonetheless,  what  has  been  achieved  so 
far  is  a  far  cry  from  the  Herculean  challenges  we 
face today. Nor can we overlook our many failures as 
an  Organization,  something  that,  as  has  been  so  ably 
established  by  the  High-level  Independent  Panel  on 
Peace Operations, is very apparent in the area of peace 
and security, as well as with regard to the creation of a 
level playing field in international economic and trade 
relations.
Despite all this, however, one thing is self-evident. 
The United Nations is an Organization that none of us 
can afford to live without. In spite of its shortcomings, 
it  remains  the  only  universal  Organization  we  have, 
whether  we  are  big  or  small,  rich  or  poor,  providing 
us with a unique platform for advancing our common 
objectives  and  addressing  the  myriad  problems  we 
collectively face. The challenge that we have to address 
at  this  juncture  in  the  history  of  the  Organization  is 
more  or  less  obvious.  It  has  to  do  with  how  we  can 
make it relevant and effective as we collectively strive 
to  meet  the  needs  and  aspirations  of  our  people  in 
the  twenty-first  century.  That,  I  believe,  is  the  main 
essence of the anniversary celebration aptly captured in 
the slogan “Strong UN. Better World”. But the United 
Nations is, after all, an intergovernmental Organization 
whose strengths and weaknesses cannot be understood 
independently of the role of its members. It is therefore 
up  to  us  to  empower  the  Organization  to  fulfil  its 
promises in a new era.
The  United  Nations  is  indeed  a  creation  of  the 
post-1945 world order and the devastating experiences 
of  the  Second  World  War  and  the  Great  Depression 
that  preceded  it,  and  that  unquestionably  inspired  the 
letter and spirit of the Charter. The world has changed 
tremendously since then, however, and the complex and 
multifaceted challenges we face today — in particular, 
obviously, the threat of terrorism and violent extremism, 
the  devastating  consequences  of  climate  change  and 
other  emerging  challenges  of  our  time  —  are  quite 
different from those that the founders had to deal with 
in  the  immediate  aftermath  of  the  war.  At  the  same 
time, not only has the membership of the United Nations 
changed  dramatically  over  the  years,  but  so  have  the 
geopolitical and economic realities of our planet. Today, 
with  rapid  globalization  and  a  dramatic  revolution  in 
information technology, we are living in a much more 
interconnected and interdependent world. That is why 
the  United  Nations  needs  the  tools  necessary  to  deal 
with those challenges and realities so that it can better 
serve the needs of our peoples and nations in a new and 
completely different era.
The need for reform of the United Nations system 
has  long  been  recognized,  but  forging  the  necessary 
compromise among the wider membership has not been 
easy. However, it can be delayed no longer. It is clear 
that if we do not undertake the necessary reforms, we 
will  not  be  able  to  deliver  the  transformative  agenda 
we have set for ourselves. That is the reason why it is 
not enough to adopt the next generation of Sustainable 
Development Goals, whose ambition and transformative 
aspirations make them truly historic. 
It  is  also  vital  that  the  United  Nations  be  made 
fit  for  the  post-2015  era.  A  comprehensive  reform  of 
the  United  Nations  system,  particularly  the  Security 
Council, is indeed imperative if we are to reflect current 
geopolitical realities and make the United Nations more 
broadly representative, legitimate and effective. In that 
context, it is only proper that we seize this opportunity 
to once again echo Africa’s call to be fully represented 
in all the decision-making organs of the United Nations, 
56/57 
15-29265
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.13
particularly  the  Security  Council,  as  expressed  in  the 
Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration.
We  in  Ethiopia  remain  fully  committed  to  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
are  very  grateful  for  the  support  and  partnership  of 
the  United  Nations  in  our  development  endeavours. 
The  reason  for  the  remarkable  progress  that  we  have 
made over the past 15 years, including achieving all of 
the Millennium Development Goals, is to be found in 
the fact that we have taken charge of our own destiny, 
devised  our  own  development  strategy  and  mobilized 
domestic  resources  for  their  implementation.  But 
we  have  also  made  the  best  use  of  the  development 
cooperation we have had with the United Nations and 
our other partners.
Ethiopia has embarked on an ambitious transformative 
agenda,  with  a  view  to  achieving  middle-income 
status by the year 2025. We intend to do so based on 
carbon-neutral  growth 
through  a  climate-resilient 
“green economy” strategy that is fully integrated into 
our  national  development  plan.  The  results  achieved 
over the past five years are quite encouraging, and have 
inspired us to do even more by implementing a second 
growth and transformation agenda that we will embark 
on soon. We therefore look at the possibilities that lie 
ahead  with  great  optimism,  the  more  so  because  we 
also  trust  that  we  are  all  determined  to  adhere  to  the 
commitment we entered into at the Summit concluded 
yesterday. 
It is with that deep sense of optimism that I want 
to  conclude  by  once  again  reiterating  my  country’s 
commitment to the purposes and principles of the United 
Nations, as well as to continuing to play an active and 
constructive role in realizing its noble objectives.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal 
Democratic Republic of Ethiopia for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr. Hailemariam Desalegn, Prime Minister of the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 4 p.m.
15-29265
57/57
