United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
14th plenary meeting
Monday, 28 September 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.14
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 4 p.m.
Address by Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, President 
of the Republic of Uganda
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Uganda.
Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of  the 
Republic of Uganda, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, President of 
the Republic of Uganda, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Museveni: I  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on 
your  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventieth  session  and  assure  you  of  Uganda’s 
support.  We  are  confident  that  you  will  lead  the 
Assembly  effectively  and  successfully.  I  would  also 
like to express our gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Sam 
Kutesa for his leadership of the Assembly at its sixty-
ninth  session.  I  also  pay  tribute  to  the  Secretary-
General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his 
personal dedication and commitment to the work of the 
United Nations.
The  theme  for  this  session,  “The  United  Nations 
at  70:  the  road  ahead  for  peace,  security  and  human 
rights”, is a very pertinent one. In the book of Matthew, 
Chapter 22, verses 37-38, the Bile tell us to “Love God 
with all your heart” and “Love your neighbour as you 
love  yourself”.  Yesterday,  while  chairing  the  United 
Nations Summit on the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs),  I  quoted  that  portion  of  the  Bible.  Given  the 
fact that the United Nations has been in existence for 
the past 70 years, one would have imagined that those 
fundamental rules of Christianity, which are also found 
in  other  religions,  would  have  been  clear  to  every 
member of the human family. Yet, unfortunately, that 
has not been the case.
the  one  hand  and  a 
Until  recently,  the  human  race  has  been  divided 
between  a  small  group  of  affluent  and  prosperous 
societies  on 
large  number 
of  underdeveloped  societies  on 
the  other.  The 
underdeveloped  societies  have  been  in  that  condition 
partly  because  of  endogenous  factors  and  also  partly 
because of exogenous factors. We do not have the time 
to lay out those two sets of factors that were responsible 
for  that  dichotomy  in  the  human  race  between  the 
developed  and  underdeveloped  societies  on  the  same 
planet in the same age.
Yet,  as  if  by  a  miracle,  during  the  sixty-ninth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Member  States 
finally agreed on the all-important SDGs — 17 of them. 
The convergence of analysis and solutions, of diagnosis 
and  prescription,  is  a  landmark  in  the  history  of 
humankind. It means that the international community 
now agrees with us in Uganda, we who have for long 
identified 10 strategic bottlenecks that have held Africa 
back from undergoing the necessary transformation to 
become first-world societies.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29271 (E)
*1529271*
A/70/PV.14 
28/09/2015
Unlike  past  prescriptions  that  entailed  mainly 
philanthropy and aid and spoke of social goals without 
talking of economic goals, and so forth, the SDGs that 
we adopted the other day (see resolution 70/1) talk about 
industrialization  and  added  value,  trade,  investments 
and  human-resource  development  in  addition  to  the 
previously  proposed  remedies.  Above  all,  the  SDGs 
proclaim  in  bold  letters  the  concept  of  universal 
prosperity for all societies, for the first time in human 
history. While it is amazing that such enlightened self-
interest has taken so long to dawn on all of us, the old 
saying that “better late than never” appropriately comes 
to mind in this case.
This  convergence  of  diagnosis  and  prescription 
regarding  global  issues  will,  above  all,  assist  in 
prioritizing  the  use  of  scarce  resources,  especially 
those under the control of international agencies. The 
tug-of-war as to what is more important, electricity or 
education, now comes to an end. It is clear that both, 
and  more,  are  the  sine  qua  non  of  socioeconomic 
transformation.  Moreover, 
the  word 
“transformation” in the SDGs is most revealing. That is 
what we have been urging our partners to adopt instead 
of vague phrases like “sustainable development”.
the  use  of 
Sustainable  development  without  the  resultant 
transformation  is  like  talking  of  quantitative  growth 
without qualitative change. We have been pointing out 
that  that  is  not  what  happens  in  nature.  The  healthy 
quantitative expansion of, for instance, a foetus in the 
womb of the mother should always result, after a due 
period  of  time,  into  the  foetus  metamorphosing  into 
a  baby  who  now  breathes  through  the  nose  and  feeds 
through the mouth instead of relying on the umbilical 
cord.
grow 
not 
Similarly, 
societies  must 
only 
quantitatively but also qualitatively. African societies, 
for instance, must grow from the pre-capitalist modes of 
production and from being producers of raw materials 
to  middle-class  and  skilled  working-class  societies.  I 
salute our own Honourable Sam Kutesa, who played a 
leading  role  in  that  historic  effort  at  the  level  of  the 
United Nations.
On  the  issue  of  global  peace,  our  experience  in 
Uganda has been to go back to the Bible, which teaches 
that  whatever  a  man  sows,  that  is  what  he  reaps.  If 
you  sow  the  pseudo-ideology  of  sectarianism,  bad 
governance, corruption, flunkeyism, and so forth, you 
will  harvest  insecurity  and  the  stunted  growth  of  the 
State pillars, including the armed forces. Uganda is a 
country that has had a lot of problems, including losing 
800,000  people  between  1966  and  1986,  who  were 
killed extrajudicially by the various regimes.
We have never, however, appealed for external help 
in  dealing  with  the  security  problems  of  our  country. 
We have always emphasized building our own capacity 
at  the  earliest  opportunity.  That  has  served  us  well. 
Uganda  today  has  capable  security  forces  that  have 
ushered in peace throughout the whole country, for the 
first time in the past 500 years.
Our  advice  to  the  United  Nations  system  is 
therefore  that,  while  it  may  be  unavoidable  to  rely 
on  external  armies  in  dealing  with  particularly  ugly 
situations,  one  should  be  wary  of  groups  that  seek 
external  sponsorship  instead  of  relying  on  their  own 
internal energies and groups that seek to be puppets of 
external actors. Some very limited external solidarity 
may be necessary when oppressed people are fighting 
for survival and emancipation, if you are dealing with 
authentic patriotic groups.
However,  the  United  Nations  system  will  not 
add  any  value  if  it  is  lured  into  situations  where  it  is 
supporting  puppets  who  have  no  legitimacy  in  the 
various respective situations or who are pursuing one 
pseudo-ideology  or  another.  In  that  case  the  United 
Nations  becomes  part  of  the  problem,  not  part  of  the 
solution.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Uganda 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of  the 
Republic of Uganda, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Ms. Michelle Bachelet Jeria, President 
of the Republic of Chile
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Chile.
Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Chile,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of 
2/22 
15-29271
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.14
the Republic of Chile, and to invite her to address the 
Assembly.
President  Bachelet  Jeria  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Today’s world is faced with both challenges and tasks. 
We  are  witnessing  a  plethora  of  serious  international 
crises  in  various  parts  of  the  world,  crises  that  have 
impacted international peace and security, most notably 
in  the  Middle  East,  but  also  in  Europe  and  Africa. 
Those crises affect, in particular, huge segments of the 
civilian populations, who, in desperation, are fleeing in 
order to save their lives and forge a better future.
As an international community, we are dutybound 
to  react  with  solidarity  to  restore  peace  and  deploy  a 
response that will enable us to minimize the suffering 
of  both  the  victims  of  war  and  those  who  are  fleeing 
from war. We commend the efforts that many countries 
are  making  to  take  in  the  refugees,  but  we  must  do 
more. That is why my Government has decided to take 
in refugees from the civil war in Syria, and it is also 
why Chile will expand cooperation with Africa. As of 
2016,  for  example,  we  will  be  participating  in  United 
Nations peacekeeping operations in that region.
In  addition  to  facint  the  most  urgent  challenges 
threatening peace, our planet has yet to stem growing 
inequality or reach an agreement that would halt global 
warming.  It  is  for  that  reason,  against  the  backdrop 
of  such  serious  international  challenges,  that  this 
seventieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  will  go 
down  in  history  as  a  momentous  occasion  on  which 
the  international  community  succeeded  in  forging  an 
agreement,  namely,  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1). That Agenda is replete 
with  hope  and  is  binding  in  nature.  It  focuses  on 
addressing various aspects of inequality, which is the 
main  challenge  to  be  found  in  Latin  America,  and  of 
course, it goes without saying, in Chile as well.
In  this  new  phase  of  our  economic  and  political 
development  the  new  Agenda  is  broad  and  ambitious 
and is commensurate with the pressing challenges and 
long-term  goals  of  fair,  creative  and  peaceful  human 
coexistence. It does not sweep aside the commitments 
that  have  already  been  entered  into  whose  fulfilment 
is still pending, but rather incorporates new goals and 
targets,  integrating  them  multidimensionally  into  the 
concept of sustainable and inclusive development. It is, 
in other words, an Agenda of change.
That  is  an  approach  that  we  share  and  vigorously 
support — equality within and among countries, equality 
between men and women, growth, industrialization and 
inclusive  and  sustainable  consumption,  the  protection 
of  the  environment  in  its  various  facets,  and  social 
peace, to name but a few of the Agenda’s Goals. They 
are  the  face  and  indeed  the  foundation  of  a  mode  of 
coexistence based on very deeply held values.
We have an opportunity to address the feelings of 
despair and hopelessness about the future and the lack of 
trust in institutions that permeate some of our societies. 
The chief responsibility for sustainable and more equal 
development rests with each individual country. Chile 
is  wholeheartedly  committed  to  delivering  on  that 
responsibility.  However,  success  in  that  endeavour 
requires  a  propitious  environment,  since  many  of  the 
targets are affected by global dynamics and most of the 
challenges that we face today cannot be resolved by any 
single country acting in isolation.
Only if we can deliver on an agenda of change at the 
global as well as the national levels will it be possible to 
promote more inclusive and sustainable societies. When 
international trade does not act as an engine of growth, 
when  financial  flows  are  asymmetrical,  minimal  and 
volatile, if there are no fair and effective mechanisms 
for dealing with sovereign debt, if there are not enough 
predictable  flows  of  official  development  assistance, 
then  emerging  countries,  especially  the  poorer  ones, 
will  have  great  difficulty  in  attaining  the  Goals 
contained in the 2030 Agenda.
Similarly,  it  is  clear  that  international  financial, 
monetary  and  trading  systems  must  operate  more 
democratically, effectively and fairly in relation to the 
interests of developing countries. That is not always the 
case at present. Consequently, a basic prerequisite for 
making the Agenda a reality is to strengthen the system 
of global institutions and multilateral cooperation with 
broad  representation,  clear  mandates  and  effective 
tools. We are calling for an architecture of multilateral 
institutions  that  will  provide  backing  for  the  national 
policies proposed under the 2030 Agenda.
Chile  has  strengthened  the  role  it  plays  in  the 
multilateral system. In 2014 and 2015 we have served 
as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council. 
In the light of that experience we wish to reaffirm our 
belief in the need to reform the Council by increasing 
the number of its permanent members and by reducing 
the use of the veto, at the very least in cases involving 
crimes  against  humanity.  Such  a  reform  is  necessary, 
reflecting  the  considerable  change  and  progress  seen 
15-29271
3/22
A/70/PV.14 
28/09/2015
in  the  multilateral  system,  and  it  would  undoubtedly 
confer greater legitimacy on that most important organ 
of the United Nations.
We  as  a  country  are  aware  that  we  are  all 
responsible  for  ensuring  that  the  international  system 
works properly. One essential element for bringing that 
about is the principle of adherence to international law, 
which  includes  strict  respect  for  treaties,  as  a  means 
of  guaranteeing  peace  and  international  stability. 
That requires respecting what has been agreed on and 
refraining  from  misusing  the  mechanisms  that  have 
been designed for peacefully resolving any differences 
that may exist.
From its home at the southern tip of the American 
continent,  Chile  is  looking  forward,  full  of  hope,  to 
the  outcome  of  the  2015  Paris  Climate  Conference  in 
December. We have one of the longest coastlines in the 
world. We will soon be hosting the second Our Ocean 
Conference, at which countries will be asked to make 
voluntary  commitments  to  reducing  pollution  of  the 
seas, combat illegal fishing and protect the diversity of 
marine resources.
its 
intended  nationally  determined 
contribution,  my  country  committed  to  reducing  its 
CO² emissions by 30 per cent by 2030, compared with 
2007, and by up to 45 per cent if we can count on robust 
international  support.  Moreover,  we  are  determined 
to  restore  100,000  acres  of  forest  and  to  reforest  an 
additional 100,000 acres of land. 
As 
for 
Agenda  2030  gives  us  a  shared  horizon,  a  shared 
destination.  Now  we  must  act.  Each  country  must 
act  individually,  of  course,  but  at  the  same  time  we 
must  cooperate  with  each  other  in  the  various  North-
South and South-South forums and must tackle global 
challenges  jointly  in  the  multilateral  forums  that  we 
have available to us.
I  should  like  to  conclude  this  statement  by 
congratulating two Governments of our region that have 
resumed  diplomatic  relations  recently,  namely,  Cuba 
and  the  United  States  of  America.  That  is  an  historic 
step for our region and for the world. Chile applauds the 
use of dialogue and respect for international law as the 
civilized way for countries to resolve their differences.
I should also like to say that we are extraordinarily 
pleased  to  see  that  there  have  been  numerous  other 
agreements  reached  as  well,  for  instance  between  the 
Government of Colombia and the Revolutionary Armed 
Forces of Colombia. We believe that is also proof that 
where  there  is  a  will,  there  is  a  way  to  come  to  an 
agreement. Colombia and its people can count on our 
active support in that process, which we are confident 
will lead to a lasting peace.
We have reason to be proud of our joint achievements 
and  also,  let  it  be  said,  to  be  concerned  about  and 
attentive to our collective future. But there are grounds 
for hope as well. Those beliefs should guide our action 
and  our  commitment  to  build  a  better  world,  a  world 
in which there is better balance between development 
and  the  preservation  of  our  environment,  a  world  in 
which we see more justice, cohesion and equality in our 
societies and among our peoples.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Chile 
for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of  the 
Republic of Chile, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Raúl Castro Ruz, President of 
the Councils of State and Ministers of the Republic 
of Cuba
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  of  the  Councils  of  State  and 
Ministers of the Republic of Cuba.
Mr. Raúl Castro Ruz, President of the Councils of 
State and Ministers of the Republic of Cuba, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations, 
His Excellency Mr. Raúl Castro Ruz, President of the 
Councils  of  State  and  Ministers  of  the  Republic  of 
Cuba, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Castro  Ruz  (spoke  in  Spanish):  It  was 
70 years ago that, on behalf on their peoples, the first 
Member States of the Organization signed the Charter 
of the United Nations. We pledged ourselves to preserve 
future generations from the scourge of war and to build 
a new type of relationship, guided by a set of purposes 
and  principles  that  sought  to  bring  about  an  era  of 
peace, justice and development for all of humanity.
However, from that moment there have constantly 
been wars of aggression and interference in the internal 
affairs of States, the ousting of sovereign Governments 
4/22 
15-29271
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.14
by force, so-called soft coups and the recolonization of 
territories — all perfected by unconventional ways of 
acting,  using  new  technologies  and  under  the  pretext 
of alleged human rights violations. The militarization 
of  cyberspace  and  the  covert  and  illegal  use  of 
information and communication technologies to attack 
other States are unacceptable, as is the distortion of the 
advancement and protection of human rights when used 
in a selective and discriminatory approach to validate 
and impose political decisions.
Despite  the  fact  that  the  Charter  calls  on  us  to 
reaffirm  faith  in  fundamental  human  rights  and  the 
dignity and worth of the human person, for millions of 
people the fulfilment of human rights remains a utopia. 
Humankind has been denied the right to live in peace 
and the right to development. It is actually in poverty 
and  inequality  that  the  cause  of  conflicts  should  be 
sought  —  conflicts  that  were  earlier  generated  by 
colonialism and the plundering of regional peoples, and 
later by imperialism and the distribution of spheres of 
influence.
The commitment made in 1945 to promoting social 
progress and better standards of living for the peoples, 
along  with  their  economic  and  social  development, 
remains an illusion when 795 million people go hungry, 
when 781 million adults are illiterate, and when 17,000 
children perish every day from curable diseases. In the 
meantime,  annual  military  expenditures  worldwide 
amount  to  more  than  $1.7  trillion.  Barely  a  fraction 
of that figure could actually resolve the most pressing 
problems  afflicting  humankind.  Even  in  industrial 
nations,  the  welfare  society,  which  was  presented  as 
the model to imitate, has practically disappeared. The 
election  systems  and  the  traditional  parties,  which 
rely on money and publicity, are growing increasingly 
detached  and  distant  from  the  aspirations  of  their 
peoples.
Climate  change  is  threatening  the  very  existence 
of  the  human  species.  States  should  assume  common 
but  differentiated  responsibilities,  in  view  of  the 
indisputable  reality  that  not  all  countries  are  equally 
accountable  for  what  has  happened.  Not  all  of  us 
waste natural and human resources through irrational 
and  unsustainable  consumerism.  The  consequences 
of  climate  change  are  particularly  for  small  island 
developing  States  and  additional  tensions  to  their 
fragile  economies.  The  same  is  happening  in  Africa 
with the relentless advance of desertification. 
We  stand 
in  solidarity  with  our  Caribbean 
brothers and demand that they be treated in a special 
and  differentiated  way.  We  also  support  the  African 
countries and demand fair treatment for them, as well 
as the transfer of technology and financial resources.
With  the  establishment  of  the  Community  of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  (CELAC),  and 
especially  the  signing  by  the  CELAC  Heads  of  State 
and Government in January 2014 of the Proclamation 
of Latin America and the Caribbean as a Zone of Peace, 
we have shown that we can move beyond our differences 
toward unity and the achievement of common goals in 
the framework of our diversity.
In  the  Proclamation  we  reaffirm  our  steadfast 
commitment to the principles enshrined in the Charter 
of the United Nations and in international law to settle 
disputes  by  peaceful  means  and  our  belief  that  full 
respect for the inalienable right of each State to choose 
its political, economic, social and cultural system is an 
essential  condition  for  ensuring  peaceful  coexistence 
among nations. We demand that those principles be the 
basis for relations with other States in our region. 
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela can always 
rely on the solidarity of Cuba vis-à-vis the attempts at 
destabilization and subversion of its constitutional order 
and  the  destruction  of  the  work  begun    by  Comrade 
Hugo  Chávez  Frías  and  pursued  by  President  Nicolás 
Maduro Moros for the benefit of the Venezuelan people. 
Likewise,  our  firm  and  unlimited  solidarity  goes  to 
the  Republic  of  Ecuador,  its  citizens’  revolution  and 
its leader Rafael Correa Delgado, who has become the 
target of the same destabilization script applied against 
other progressive Governments in the region.
We stand in solidarity with the Caribbean nations 
demanding  fair  reparation  for  the  horrors  of  slavery 
and the slave trade, above all in a world where racial 
discrimination and repression of communities of people 
of  African  descent  have  increased.  We  also  reaffirm 
our conviction that the people of Puerto Rico deserve 
to  be  free  and  independent  after  more  than  a  century 
of  colonial  domination.  We  stand  in  solidarity  with 
the Argentine Republic in its fair claim of sovereignty 
over  the  Malvinas  Islands,  South  Georgia  and  South 
Sandwich islands.
We  reiterate  our  support  for  and  solidarity  with 
President  Dilma  Rousseff  and  the  Brazilian  people 
in defence of their major social achievements and the 
stability of their country. 
15-29271
5/22
A/70/PV.14 
28/09/2015
We reaffirm our rejection of the intention to expand 
the  presence  of  NATO  up  to  the  Russian  borders,  as 
well as the unilateral and unjust sanctions imposed on 
that nation.
We  welcome  the  so-called  nuclear  agreement 
with  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  which  proves  that 
engagement  and  negotiations  are  the  only  effective 
tools  for  settling  disputes  between  States.  We  renew 
our  confidence  that  the  Syrian  people  are  capable  of 
solving  their  disputes  by  themselves  and  demand  an 
end to external interference in that country.
A  fair  and  lasting  solution  of  the  Middle  East 
conflict  unquestionably  requires  the  true  exercise 
by  the  Palestinian  people  of  their  inalienable  right  to 
build their own State within the borders existing prior 
to  1967,  with  its  capital  in  East  Jerusalem,  which  we 
strongly support.
Mr. González Franco (Paraguay), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
Over the past few weeks, we have been moved by 
the images of waves of migration toward Europe. That 
is a direct result of the destabilizing actions promoted 
and  executed  by  NATO  in  countries  of  the  Middle 
East  and  North  Africa,  as  well  as  of  the  poverty  and 
underdevelopment  prevailing  in  the  countries  of  the 
African  continent.  The  European  Union  should  take 
full and immediate responsibility for the human crisis 
that it helped to generate.
After 56 years, during which the Cuban people put 
up  heroic  and  selfless  resistance,  diplomatic  relations 
have been re-established between Cuba and the United 
States  of  America.  Now,  a  long  and  complex  process 
begins towards the normalization of relations. But that 
will  be  achieved  only  with  the  end  of  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  against  Cuba,  the 
return to our country of the territory illegally occupied 
by  the  Guantanamo  naval  base,  and  the  cessation  of 
radio  and  television  broadcasts  and  of  subversive  and 
destabilizing  programmes  against  the  island.  Our 
people should also be compensated for the human and 
economic damage that they still endure. 
While  the  blockade  remains  in  force,  we  shall 
continue  introducing  the  draft  resolution  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba”.  To  all  the  188  Governments 
and peoples that have sponsored our just demand here 
and in other international regional forums, we reiterate 
the  eternal  appreciation  of  the  Cuban  people  and 
Government for their continued support.
Cuba  is  celebrating  with  profound  commitment 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations. 
Despite  the  efforts  that  have  been  made  throughout 
those years, not enough has been done to save present 
and future generations from the scourge of war and to 
protect their right to sustainable development without 
exclusions.  The  United  Nations  should  be  defended 
from  unilateralism  and  should  be  deeply  reformed  to 
democratize it and bring it closer to the peoples. 
As Comrade Fidel Castro Ruz, the historic leader 
of  the  Cuban  revolution,  stated  in  this  same  Hall  15 
years ago
“Everyone understands that the United Nations 
basic  role  in  the  new  century  now  upon  us  is  to 
save  the  world  not  only  from  war  but  also  from 
underdevelopment,  hunger,  diseases,  poverty 
and  the  destruction  of  the  natural  resources 
indispensable  to  human  life.  And  the  United 
Nations  must  do  this  promptly —  before  it  is  too 
late.” (A/55/PV.4, p. 20)
The  international  community  can  always  depend 
on  Cuba  to  raise  its  honest  voice  against  injustice, 
inequality,  underdevelopment,  discrimination  and 
manipulation  and  for  the  establishment  of  a  more 
equitable and fair international order that really focuses 
on the human being, his dignity and well-being.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish): On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Councils of State and Ministers of the 
Republic of Cuba for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Raứl Castro Ruz, President of the Councils of 
State and Ministers of the Republic of Cuba, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the 
Republic of South Africa
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of South Africa.
Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic of South 
Africa,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
6/22 
15-29271
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.14
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Jacob Zuma, 
President of the Republic of South Africa, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Zuma: I should like to congratulate the 
President  and  his  country,  Denmark,  on  his  election 
as President of the General Assembly at its seventieth 
session.  He  has  South  Africa’s  full  support  for  his 
presidency. The theme that he has chosen, “The United 
Nations  at  70:  the  road  ahead  for  peace,  security  and 
human  rights”,  is  timely  and  relevant  to  the  current 
global challenges facing the world today.
Furthermore, allow me to convey our gratitude to 
the President of the Assembly at its sixty-ninth session, 
Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  of  the  Republic  of  Uganda,  for  the 
outstanding manner in which he represented Africa at 
the helm of the General Assembly during that session.
The  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations 
marks  a  significant  moment  in  the  history  of  global 
governance.  The  Charter  embodies, 
its 
principles and objectives, the aspirations of oppressed 
people worldwide. We would also like to acknowledge 
the role of the United Nations General Assembly over 
the past 70 years. Rooted in the principle of sovereign 
equality,  the  Assembly  is  the  most  representative 
international  institution  and  organ  of  the  United 
Nations.
through 
The General Assembly has over the years remained 
central to the provision of support to the disadvantaged, 
marginalized,  occupied,  colonized  and  oppressed 
peoples  of  the  world.  This  body  elevated  the  South 
African struggle for liberation internationally when it 
declared apartheid a crime against humanity.
Mr.  Oliver  Tambo,  the  former  President  of  our 
liberation  movement,  the  African  National  Congress, 
addressed  the  General  Assembly  from  this  very 
podium on 26 October 1976 (see A/31/PV.41) and spoke 
from other United Nations platforms as well on other 
occasions.  Many  other  eminent  South  Africans  were 
provided  an  opportunity  in  various  United  Nations 
forums to state our case for freedom, the United Nations 
providing a voice to the voiceless. A free South Africa 
has  also  been  honoured  by  the  declaration  of  18  July 
as International Mandela Day, honouring our founding 
President  and  world  icon,  President  Nelson  Mandela. 
At this celebration of the seventieth anniversary of the 
United Nations I wish to extend, on behalf of the people 
of South Africa, our sincere gratitude to the world for 
its  contribution  to  our  freedom  from  the  shackles  of 
apartheid and institutionalized racism.
The General Assembly continues to provide a voice 
for the voiceless and the oppressed. In an historic and 
landmark development the General Assembly approved 
a resolution to allow the Palestinian flag to fly in front 
of  United  Nations  Headquarters  (resolution  69/320). 
The resolution was passed by an overwhelming margin, 
supported  by  many  nations  from  both  the  developed 
North and the developing South. There can be no peace, 
security  and  development  in  the  Middle  East  without 
a  resolution  of  the  Palestinian  question.  A  solution  is 
urgent. Otherwise, if we delay, in the next decade we 
may no longer have a piece of land to justify the two-
State solution.
The  historic 
seventieth  anniversary  of 
the 
United  Nations  presents  an  opportunity  to  reflect 
on  the  structure  and  workings  of  the  Organization. 
Significantly, this year marks the tenth anniversary of 
the adoption of the World Summit Outcome (resolution 
60/1)  in  2005,  which  discussed  reform  of  the  United 
Nations.
A number of significant decisions on reform have 
been  successfully  implemented  since  that  Summit. 
They  include  the  following:  the  replacement  of  the 
Human  Rights  Commission  with  a  more  effective 
Human  Rights  Council,  the  establishment  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  as  a  subsidiary  body  of 
both the General Assembly and the Security Council, 
the  reform  and  streamlining  of  the  United  Nations 
management  system,  the  mainstreaming  of  gender 
equality through the establishment of the United Nations 
Entity  for  Gender  Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of 
Women 
the  membership-driven 
responsibility to protect and to assist populations facing 
genocide,  crimes  against  humanity,  war  crimes  and 
ethnic cleansing. We welcome that notable progress.
(UN-Women),and 
However,  almost  no  progress  has  been  made  on 
the  commitment  also  made  by  Heads  of  State  and 
Government in 2005 to the early reform of the Security 
Council. It is unacceptable and unjustifiable that more 
than 1 billion people in the African continent are still 
excluded  from  permanent  membership  in  the  key 
decision-making  structure  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
Security Council.
A continent with a smaller population than Africa 
is  represented  by  three  countries  on  the  Security 
15-29271
7/22
A/70/PV.14 
28/09/2015
Council  as  permanent  members.  That  is  unfair.  The 
United  Nations  cannot  pretend  that  the  world  has  not 
changed since 1945. We are no longer colonies. We are 
free,  independent  sovereign  States.  We  welcome  the 
fact that the push for the reform of the Security Council 
coming from Africa has had an impact and has given 
some  impetus  to  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process that has been looking at the reforms. We will 
continue working with progressive States towards the 
expansion of representation.
Another critical matter that needs attention is the 
selection of the Secretary-General, who is appointed by 
the  General  Assembly  on  the  recommendation  of  the 
Security Council. A review of that process is necessary 
so  as  to  enable  more  meaningful  participation  on  the 
part of the General Assembly in the process.
identified  human 
The  President  has 
rights, 
governance, the rule of law, and the gender aspects of 
the  work  of  the  United  Nations  as  important  areas  of 
focus for the seventieth session of the General Assembly. 
We  have  to  build  upon  the  initial  work  undertaken 
in  the  development  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human Rights in 1948 to enhance protection in areas 
such as racism, discrimination against women and the 
promotion  of  the  rights  of  the  child  and  the  rights  of 
people with disabilities.
We  also  believe  that  the  United  Nations  human 
rights  system,  especially  its  Human  Rights  Council, 
should  ensure  a  balance  between  civil  and  political 
rights,  on  the  one  hand,  and  economic,  social  and 
cultural  rights,  including  the  right  to  development, 
on the other. The Human Rights Council must also be 
seen  as  an  independent  and  impartial  mechanism  for 
the entrenchment of a human rights culture throughout 
the world. It should avoid the pitfalls of its predecessor, 
the Commission on Human Rights, which was beset by 
politicization and was caught up in the divide between 
developed and developing countries.
This  year  also  marks  50  years  since  the  adoption 
of the International Convention on the Elimination of 
All Forms of Racial Discrimination. The year 2015 also 
marks 60 years since the adoption of the Freedom Charter 
in  South  Africa,  which  embodies  the  fundamental 
principles  and  values  that  are  now  enshrined  in  our 
Constitution.  South  Africa  will  continue  to  champion 
efforts  in  the  United  Nations  human  rights  system 
to  combat  the  scourges  of  racism,  xenophobia,  racial 
discrimination and related intolerances and to support 
work  aimed  at  the  promotion  of  substantive  global 
equality.
The  seventieth  general  debate  takes  place  in  the 
context of growing international concern about the rise 
of  violent  extremism,  terrorism  and  untold  brutality, 
which we strongly condemn. We welcome the meetings 
that  will  take  place  on  the  margins  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  review  the  progress  made  in  countering 
terrorism in the Middle East and North Africa.
We  wish  to  emphasize  that  the  Security  Council 
must take into account the views of the African continent 
and  its  subregional  organizations  when  dealing  with 
conflicts  in  Africa  in  future.  The  current  situation  in 
Libya and the Sahel region is a direct consequence of 
the  failure  of  some  members  of  the  Council  to  heed 
informed counsel from the African Union. The norm of 
responsibility to protect was abused for narrow political 
interests that had nothing to do with the fundamental 
aspects of the prevention of mass atrocities.
The current refugee crisis in Europe is, sadly, the 
direct  result  of  the  militarization  of  civilian  unrest, 
which  included  the  massive  arming  of  civilians  and 
opposition  groups  in  Libya,  Syria  and  other  affected 
countries. That kind of problem is a deliberately man-
made  problem,  and  it  is  critical  that,  in  discussing 
violent extremism and terrorism in parts of Africa and 
the  Middle  East,  we  look  into  the  root  causes  of  the 
problem and not just the symptoms. Also requiring our 
serious reflection is the regime change doctrine and its 
role in perpetuating conflicts and instability in various 
parts of our continent and the world.
We welcome the recently signed peace agreement 
between the parties in South Sudan and urge the United 
Nations  and  all  stakeholders  to  support  the  Sudanese 
people  as  they  work  to  resolve  their  challenges.  We 
reaffirm our support for the people of Western Sahara 
and  urge  the  international  community  to  encourage 
their struggle for self-determination, freedom, human 
rights and dignity.
We also welcome the re-establishment of diplomatic 
relations between Cuba and the United States and the 
release of the Cuban Five. We reiterate our call for the 
lifting of the economic and financial embargo to help 
the Cuban people to gain their economic freedom. We 
acknowledge  the  contribution  of  His  Holiness  Pope 
Francis  to  the  Cuban-United  States  normalization 
process.  We  also  warmly  welcome  the  contribution 
of  the  Holy  Father  generally  to  the  global  pursuit  of 
8/22 
15-29271
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.14
peace,  justice  and  the  end  of  poverty  and  suffering, 
as  eloquently  expressed  in  the  General  Assembly  and 
globally.
We  commend  the  United  Nations  for  the  key 
role  that  it  has  played  in  peacekeeping  and  urge  that 
resources be prioritized for this core role of the United 
Nations, especially in Africa.
The  failure  of  the  parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  to  reach  an 
agreement  at  the  2015  Review  Conference  —  in  the 
year that marks 70 years since the first atomic bombs 
were  detonated  in  Japan  —  is  a  major  setback  to  our 
commitment  to  rid  the  world  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction, especially nuclear weapons. There can be 
no  safe  hands  where  nuclear  weapons  are  concerned. 
The humanitarian consequences of a possible detonation 
of a nuclear weapon, whether intentional or accidental, 
will be catastrophic for humankind.
We welcome the recent agreement reached on the 
Iranian nuclear programme and the recognition of the 
right of Iran to the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
for  Sustainable  Development 
The  seventieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
has  seen  the  adoption  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda.  The  outcome  document  represents  a  victory 
for  the  developing  world,  as  it  affirms  that  the  2030 
Agenda 
(resolution 
70/1)  should  build  on  the  unfinished  business  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Additionally,  while 
the  2030  Agenda  is  universal  in  its  scope  in  that  the 
Sustainable Development Goals adopted apply to both 
developed  and  developing  countries,  there  is  also 
a  clear  recognition  of  the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated  responsibilities  and  capabilities.  The 
Agenda  also  contains  a  specific  Goal  on  achieving 
gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women  and 
girls.  That  is  all  the  more  appropriate  given  that  this 
year is the twentieth anniversary of the Beijing Platform 
for  Action  and  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  Security 
Council resolution 1325 (2000), on women, peace and 
security.
As  the  initiator  of  the  Durban  Platform  for 
Enhanced Action — thanks to which the current round 
of  negotiations  under  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  (UNFCCC)  is  taking 
place  —  South  Africa  has  a  special  interest  in  and 
commitment to the success of the Paris session of the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  later  this  year.  We  require 
the fulfilment of all three parts of the Durban mandate, 
namely, the closing of the current ambition gap in the 
pre-2020  period  through  the  honouring  of  existing 
legal obligations by developed countries and enhanced 
action; the entry into force of the second commitment 
period  of  the  Kyoto  Protocol;  and  the  adoption  in 
Paris of a new agreement for the post-2020 period that 
contains all the essential elements, including the means 
of  implementation  and  the  measures  relating  to  loss, 
damage  and  response.  We  seek  a  fair,  ambitious  and 
legally binding agreement in Paris that is applicable to 
all parties.
In addition, South Africa, as Chair of the G-77 plus 
China, would not be able to accept a Paris package that is 
hollow or weak on finance. South Africa has submitted 
its intended nationally determined contribution to the 
UNFCCC secretariat ahead of the 1 October deadline, 
signalling our readiness for Paris.
We  join  the  world  in  celebrating  the  70  years 
of  existence  of  the  United  Nations.  As  we  mark  this 
historic anniversary, the reform of the Security Council 
and  the  strengthening  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
other organs remain a paramount concern. By the end 
of this session, we should be in a position to adopt a road 
map, with clear and implementable time frames, on the 
priorities of this Organization as well as on its reform. 
We need to do this in order for the United Nations to 
remain  a  relevant  force  and  a  force  for  change  in  the 
world.
In conclusion, let me express our deep appreciation 
of the offer made by China when it was addressing the 
Assembly,  an  offer  that  must  go  through  the  United 
Nations.  China  spelled  out  the  support  it  intended  to 
give to Africa: a total of $100 million of free military 
assistance to the African Union over the next five years 
to  support  the  establishment  of  the  African  Standby 
Force and the African Capacity for Immediate Response 
to Crises. We would like to underline our gratitude to 
China..
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of South Africa for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic of South 
Africa,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
15-29271
9/22
A/70/PV.14 
28/09/2015
Address by Mr. Abdel Fattah Al Sisi, President of 
the Arab Republic of Egypt
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Arab Republic of Egypt.
Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi,  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Abdel Fattah 
Al Sisi, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Al Sisi (spoke in Arabic): I should like 
to express to the President the warm salutations of the 
people of Egypt. At the outset, I wish to congratulate 
him,  and  his  friendly  country,  Denmark,  on  his 
assumption of the presidency at the current session of 
the  General  Assembly.  I  express  my  appreciation  to 
his predecessor, the Foreign Minister of our brotherly 
country Uganda, for his exceptional efforts during his 
presidency at the previous session.
I  should  also  like  to  commend  the  constructive 
role played by the Secretary-General and his ceaseless 
efforts  to  uphold  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter, which has served as the constitutional bedrock 
and framework of reference for international relations 
for 70 years.
A few weeks ago, Egypt and the world witnessed 
the inauguration of the new Suez Canal, an achievement 
that will have a major impact in a number of economic 
fields,  including  transportation,  trade  and  services. 
It  is  also  a  statement  of  Egypt’s  capability  and  the 
determination  of  its  people  to  work  diligently  to 
overcome challenges and obstacles. I do not intend to 
dwell  on  the  particulars  today,  with  which  I  am  sure 
members  are  familiar.  What  I  wish  to  highlight  is 
the  significance  of  what  we  in  Egypt  have  achieved. 
The  new  Canal  is  not  only  Egypt’s  gift  to  the  world, 
it  represents  hope  and  the  ability  to  transform  that 
hope  into  tangible  reality,  with  the  promise  of  a  new 
direction, through hard work.
Members may agree with me that hope, that most 
important attribute, has provided the motive force that 
has consistently driven individuals and peoples to search 
for a better tomorrow. When hope is coupled with hard 
work  and  commitment,  it  becomes  a  beacon  of  light 
that can dispel the darkness of despair, a darkness that 
today lingers over the Middle East. Hope and hard work 
are the example that Egypt offers to its neighbours in 
Africa, Asia and the Mediterranean by way of a helping 
hand in overcoming the challenges of the present and 
illuminating the path towards the future.
It is our belief in Egypt that the Middle East and 
the world at large are living through perilous times and 
are in dire need of a model that offers new prospects 
for  the  younger  generations,  providing  them  with 
opportunities for a brighter future. They must be shown 
that with diligent work they can participate in crafting 
this future.
It  is  against  this  background  that  I  announce 
Egypt’s  intention  to  launch,  in  conjunction  with  the 
United  Nations  and  its  Member  States  and  with  the 
broad participation of the young people of all nations, an 
initiative called Hope and Action for a New Direction, 
or  HAND  according  to  the  English  acronym.  This  is 
the hand that Egypt extends as part of its contribution 
to defeating the extremists and the ideas they seek to 
spread. The initiative will employ proactive measures 
rather  than  relying  on  resistance  alone.  This  is  in 
contrast to the counter-terrorism efforts so far, which 
have  consisted  solely  of  defensive  reactions  aimed  at 
preserving the status quo. In parallel with those efforts, 
we  must  seek  ways  of  keeping  our  young  people  safe 
from extremists and false ideas and of channelling their 
productive  energies  and  capabilities  into  building  the 
future that will soon be their own.
God  has  bestowed  on  humankind  the  gift  of  the 
mind,  thereby  enabling  us  to  find  Him.  The  fact  that 
we can use this mind to make choices is the ultimate 
proof that our differences and diversities are a product 
of divine will, which does not accept that human beings 
should be devoid of purpose. Before that simple, palpable 
truth,  all  the  arguments  made  by  extremists  of  all 
religions and creeds fall apart, particularly arguments 
made  by  those  who  claim  to  have  a  monopoly  over 
interpreting Islam. They forget that what they preach is 
nothing more than their own prejudiced interpretation 
of religion, which negates the truth of Islam’s tolerance, 
justice and mercy. Their rejection of the right of others 
to differ is a rejection of the Creator’s will. In reality, 
their goals are worldly and insidious, and they seek to 
recruit and indoctrinate followers and isolate them from 
any opportunity to acquire a genuine understanding of 
religion.
10/22 
15-29271
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.14
But  more  than  1.5  billion  Muslims  have  refused 
to  subscribe  to  the  views  of  this  small  minority, 
which claims to speak on their behalf and which seeks 
through  violence  and  extremism  to  marginalize  and 
silence all those who oppose their designs. The whole 
world  should  realize  this.  I  feel  the  distress  of  every 
Muslim who suffers from discrimination and prejudice 
solely  because  of  belonging  to  this  great  religion. 
Such discrimination is doubtless viewed by the forces 
of extremism as an unprecedented triumph, as one of 
their primary goals is to create the widest possible gulf 
between Muslims and the rest of the world.
Allow  me  then  to  pose  this  question:  How  many 
Muslims  must  fall  victim  to  the  abominations  of 
terrorism  and  extremism  before  the  world  recognizes 
that we all, Muslims and non-Muslims alike, are at war 
with  the  same  enemy?  That  we  face  the  same  threat? 
How much blood must be spilled in countries exposed 
to 
international  community 
awakens to the reality of this scourge, which Egypt is 
now confronting as a front-line Islamic country? When 
will  the  international  community  acknowledge  that 
there is no alternative to solidarity between all peoples 
to defeat this evil, wherever it exists?
terrorism  before 
the 
We  all  witnessed  the  downward  spiral  of  Libya 
when  the  forces  of  extremism  made  their  presence 
known through actions that contradicted the principles 
of Islam and humanity. The slaughter of Egyptians on 
the  coast  of  Libya  was  the  result  of  complacency  in 
confronting the expansion of extremists in defiance of 
the will of the Libyan people, tolerating their exclusivist 
tendencies  and  allowing  them  to  hold  hostage  the 
destiny of Libya and its people.
Egypt’s  deep  concern  for  Libya’s  future,  security 
and  stability  were  the  main  driving  force  behind  our 
support for United Nations efforts to reach a peaceful 
settlement.  This  support  played  a  significant  role  in 
achieving  the  Libyan  political  agreement,  the  Skhirat 
Agreement,  which  should  be  considered  a  milestone. 
From this point onwards, the international community 
should consolidate its efforts and strengthen its support 
for the parties to the Agreement with a view to rebuilding 
the Libyan State, empowering it effectively to combat 
terrorism  and  enhancing  its  capacity  to  defeat  the 
terrorists before they can establish a base from which to 
target Libya’s neighbours and extend their influence. In 
this context I should like to emphasize the importance 
of continuing to foster an environment that is conducive 
to increased participation among Libyans who believe 
in a modern State, in parallel with an unflagging effort 
to eradicate terrorism.
In Syria, too, we have all observed how extremists 
have exploited the legitimate aspirations of the people 
and  have  dragged  this  brotherly  nation  into  a  chaos 
designed  only  to  further  their  own  interests.  In  fact, 
conflicts have erupted between extremist organizations 
themselves in the struggle over the spoils. Today, Syria 
is  being  torn  apart.  It  is  facing  a  major  humanitarian 
crisis, and the ambitions of regional parties have been 
exposed. In response to this dire situation, Egypt has 
called on the Syrian national parties to meet in Cairo 
to  formulate  a  clear-cut  plan  for  the  interim  period, 
as  agreed  in  Geneva.  That  would  provide  a  common 
ground for all Syrians to build a democratic Syria, with 
sovereignty  over  the  entirety  of  its  territory,  and  in  a 
manner that would preserve the State and its institutions 
and  protect  its  diversity  and  national  identify.  The 
Syrian national parties are invited today to participate 
meaningfully  in  all  efforts  to  negotiate  a  political 
resolution  to  the  crisis  that  reflects  the  aspirations  of 
the Syrian people.
Egypt’s  political  and  military  support  for  Yemen 
and its participation in the steps taken by the coalition 
of States in support of the legitimate Government were 
in  response  to  Yemen’s  request.  They  also  arise  from 
our sense of the need to protect Arab national security 
in the face of external attempts to intervene in an Arab 
country’s domestic affairs, as well as our commitment to 
preserving Yemen’s unity, independence and territorial 
integrity. Egypt urges the international community to 
exert  the  necessary  efforts  to  resume  the  transitional 
political process, in accordance with the Gulf initiative 
and  its  implementation  mechanisms  as  well  as  the 
relevant Security Council resolutions.
Egypt is closely following the latest developments 
in Iraq, and we hope that the reforms implemented by 
the  Government  will  contribute  to  restoring  cohesion 
between  the  people  of  Iraq  and  advancing  national 
reconciliation.
As Egypt has previously emphasized, the increasing 
plight  of  refugees  fleeing  from  armed  conflicts 
reaffirms  the  need  to  work  towards  resolving  these 
conflicts  and  confronting  the  scourge  of  terrorism, 
which  is  a  major  aggravating  factor.  It  necessitates 
creating channels for legal immigration and facilitating 
transportation,  as  well  as 
international 
migration and development.
linking 
15-29271
11/22
A/70/PV.14 
28/09/2015
Egypt  is  host  to  an  ever-increasing  number  of 
refugees,  who  share  with  their  Egyptian  brethren 
the  social,  education  and  health  services  provided  by 
the  State,  in  spite  of  the  economic  burden  that  this 
represents. Egypt hopes that the solutions to this crisis 
will  be  found,  both  in  the  short  run  to  alleviate  the 
humanitarian suffering of refugees and in the long run 
through  overcoming  the  fundamental  causes  of  this 
crisis.
The situations I have described point to the existing 
and ever-growing threat posed by terrorist organizations, 
which exploit political crises to achieve their objectives. 
It is incumbent on me, as President of Egypt, a country 
that is surrounded by such confrontations, to forewarn 
of the dangers that the expansion of this threat pose to 
other  crises  and  regions,  at  the  forefront  of  which  is 
Palestine.
The question of Palestine is a just cause. Resolving 
the Middle East conflict and empowering the Palestinian 
people to exercise their right to self-determination and 
to  an  independent  State  within  the  pre-1967  borders, 
with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  will  effectively 
eliminate one of the most important factors underlying 
the region’s instability and used as a dangerous pretext 
to  justify  extremism  and  terrorism.  Members  will 
doubtless  agree  with  me  that  it  is  imperative  to  end 
this conflict promptly, so that the nations of the region 
may focus on building their future together in order to 
achieve prosperity and build a better future for coming 
generations.  The  ongoing  events  in  Jerusalem  and  at 
the Al-Aqsa Mosque demonstrate that achieving peace 
continues to face hurdles and challenges and that all of 
our  efforts  are  required  in  the  search  for  a  definitive 
solution.
We in Egypt realize the importance of other factors, 
in  addition  to  defeating  terrorism  and  extremism, 
in  efforts  to  achieve  stability  and  comprehensive 
development.  The  Egyptian  uprising  and  its  call  for 
change was an expression of our awareness of the need 
to build a modern nation, with all its components. We 
are aware that so far we have taken only a few steps and 
that  the  path  is  long.  We  are  committed  to  following 
that path to the end, no matter the challenges we face.
This year, Egypt will hold parliamentary elections, 
in  conformity  with  the  road  map  for  the  future.  The 
people’s representatives can then exercise their oversight 
and  legislative  responsibilities  during  the  upcoming 
phase. That phase will witness, God willing, the further 
realization  of  the  Egyptian  people’s  aspirations  for 
freedom, dignity and social justice. In this context, it 
is  essential  for  me  to  highlight  that  the  Government 
launched 
its  sustainable  development 
strategy,  known  as  Vision  2030,  in  parallel  with  the 
international community’s pursuit of an ambitious post-
2015 development agenda.
in  March 
We  hope  that  this  development  agenda  will  take 
into  consideration  the  importance  of  our  common 
but  differentiated  responsibilities  in  confronting  the 
global  challenges  based  on  a  disparity  in  capacities 
and resources, as well as the diversity of our cultures. 
Development is a fundamental human right. To facilitate 
and  promote  that  right,  particularly  in  developing 
countries and in Africa, is a joint responsibility and top 
priority particularly for the developed world.
The vision Egypt is proposing is the continuation 
of  a  long  journey,  one  which  began  with  human 
history  itself.  Throughout  this  journey,  Egyptians 
have continuously innovated. They have welcomed all 
those who have passed through their land; hence their 
contribution  to  human  culture  remains  significant  to 
this day. Currently, as a candidate for a non-permanent 
seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the  coming  two 
years,  Egypt  aspires  to  enhance  its  participation  and 
to  consolidate  international  peace  and  stability.  The 
confidence placed in Egypt by Member States will not 
be  regretted.  Egypt  is  aware  of  the  responsibilities  it 
is  about  to  shoulder  at  this  critical  juncture  and  will 
endeavour  to  reflect  the  interests  of  Africa,  the  Arab 
region and the entire world. It will seek to uphold the 
purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter 
and the values that unite human beings and civilizations.
the 
establishment  of  the  first  building  blocks  of  human 
civilization.  Egypt  remained  for  many  centuries  a 
centre of knowledge and art and a beacon of light for 
other countries and nations. In spite of the difficulties 
and  setbacks  endured  by  Egypt  at  other  times,  today 
the Egyptian people long to make history once again. I 
am confident that, with God’s help, the Egyptian people 
will  be  able  to  achieve  their  highest  aspirations  for 
themselves,  their  country,  their  region  and  the  whole 
world. Long live Egypt!
the  River  Nile  witnessed 
The  banks  of 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Arab Republic of Egypt for the statement he has 
just made.
12/22 
15-29271
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.14
Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi,  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
warming,  we  are  depriving  entire  populations  of  the 
basic  conditions  they  need  in  order  to  remain  where 
they are.
Address by Ms. Simonetta Sommaruga, President 
of the Swiss Confederation
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Swiss Confederation.
Ms. Simonetta Sommaruga, President of the Swiss 
Confederation,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Simonetta 
Sommaruga, President of the Swiss Confederation, and 
to invite her to address the Assembly.
President Sommaruga (spoke in French): On the 
ruins  of  a  world  ravaged  by  the  Second  World  War, 
51  countries  decided  to  give  humankind  a  forum  for 
voicing opinions again and came together to proclaim 
the  values  enshrined  in  the  Charter:  dignity,  human 
rights, equality, justice, tolerance and peace.
It  is  fitting  that  we  celebrate  the  seventieth 
anniversary of our Organization, which has achieved so 
much. It would be difficult to imagine a world without 
the  United  Nations.It  has  contributed  to  reducing 
poverty in a great many countries, and it has achieved 
its primary goal: our generation is the first one not to 
have lived through a world war. However, if we wish to 
make an honest assessment we also need to be critical.
Today,  close  to  120,000  soldiers  are  currently 
active in United Nations peacekeeping missions. That 
means  that  the  crises  and  the  wars  which  ravage  the 
world are still far too many in number. Today we have 
60 million displaced persons worldwide, which is more 
than at any time since the United Nations was founded. 
Not  only  have  we  not  made  sufficient  progress  when 
tackling  certain  problems,  but  we  have  created  new 
ones ourselves, such as global warming.
Even  though  we  might  not  like  to  admit  this,  we 
must  recognize  that  our  behaviour  continues  to  be 
marked by major inconsistencies. I should like to offer 
two  examples  of  that.  First,  many  countries  continue 
to  live  in  abject  poverty  when  they  have  a  wealth  of 
natural  resources.  Secondly,  we  are  concerned  about 
movements  of  mass  migration,  yet,  by  causing  global 
Let  us  ask  ourselves  why  so  many  educated 
young  people  wish  to  leave  their  own  countries.  This 
concerns  not  only  developing  countries  but  also  a 
considerable  number  of  European  States  as  well.  We 
must  acknowledge  that  we  have  not  yet  succeeded  in 
achieving anything close to a fair global distribution of 
wealth, nor have we succeeded in establishing the rule 
of law as the norm. Corruption remains endemic.
We have to admit that we have not yet succeeded 
in  combining  growth  with  the  protection  of  our 
environment.  Furthermore,  all  too  often  national 
interests  impede  the  formulation  of  joint  responses.  I 
am  thinking  here  specifically  of  the  refugee  crisis  in 
the Middle East and in Europe. Faced with such major 
flows of migrants, the solutions can only be joint ones. 
If we each continue to look after our own interests, we 
will  all  lose  out  in  the  end  —  the  migrants  will  lose 
out, and the solidarity between States will fall by the 
wayside.  If  we  fail  to  protect  human  dignity,  we  do 
ourselves  a  disservice,  because  to  betray  one’s  own 
values is to betray oneself. I say once again, therefore, 
that  the  refugee  crises  require  responses  based  on 
solidarity.
One cannot ask Turkey, Jordan or Lebanon to take 
in all the refugees fleeing the civil war in Syria. These 
countries have already done so much, such admirable 
work,  which  has  received  too  little  recognition  thus 
far. Similarly, it is not possible to ask a few European 
countries  to  take  in  all  of  the  refugees.  We  will 
all  be  judged  on  how  we  respond  to  this  traumatic 
humanitarian challenge.
Here we face yet another inconsistency. If countries 
seek  answers  to  such  large-scale  phenomena  as  the 
current  migration  movements  in  an  individualistic 
way, without coordinating, everything will be brought 
to  a  standstill.  Human  beings  are  not  free  from 
inconsistencies, none of us are. To some extent at least, 
that is part of human nature. However, when it comes to 
the actions of Governments, States and communities of 
States, we must strive to minimize such inconsistencies. 
As  we  all  know,  in  order  to  address  poverty,  the 
challenges of migration, conflicts, terrorism, organized 
crime and climate change, collective action is vital.
15-29271
13/22
A/70/PV.14 
28/09/2015
The  United  Nations  is  more  necessary  than  ever. 
What we require is a strong United Nations for a better 
world. To that end, we need to focus on three priorities. 
The  ambitious  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1) that we have just adopted 
is a huge step forward. We need to continue to impart 
this momentum by achieving an ambitious agreement 
at  the  twenty-first  session  of  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change in Paris.
As  for  the  peace  and  security  pillar,  it  affords 
us  an  opportunity  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations, 
especially with regard to the protection of the civilian 
population.  Switzerland  is  convinced  that  one  cannot 
resolve a conflict through a purely military approach. 
The United Nations must base each of its actions on a 
political strategy aimed at finding a lasting solution to 
the conflict. That self-evident truth was apparent during 
the various peace and dialogue processes conducted in 
Geneva on Syria, Libya, Iran and Yemen.
As  for  the  review  of  Security  Council  resolution 
1325  (2000),  Switzerland  will  continue  its  effort  to 
promote the participation of women in peace processes. 
We  must  also  grant  women  more  responsibility  when 
it  comes  to  security-related  issues.  Their  involvement 
contributes  to  the  duribility  of  peace  agreements  by 
expanding the agenda of negotiations and by improving 
the population’s commitment to such agreements.
The United Nations will review its global counter-
terrorism  strategy  during 
the  summer  of  2016. 
The  implementation  of  this  strategy  is  a  priority 
for  Switzerland,  especially 
to 
terrorism prevention and respect for human rights and 
international humanitarian law.
the  parts  relating 
Finally,  Switzerland  is  also  convinced  that  a 
strong  United  Nations  is  a  United  Nations  capable  of 
taking  action  and  decisions  when  international  peace 
and  security  are  under  threat.  In  this  connection,  we 
reiterate  our  long-standing  call  to  the  members  of 
the  Security  Council  not  to  block  or  vote  against  any 
resolution  aimed  at  preventing  or  putting  an  end  to 
crimes  of  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  or  war 
crimes.
Human  rights  are  the  third  pillar  of  the  United 
Nations.  Here,  Switzerland  is  proud  to  be  seeking 
election to the Human Rights Council for the 2016-2018 
term. Switzerland’s priorities on human rights are the 
abolition  of  the  death  penalty,  the  implementation  of 
the  prohibition  of  torture,  the  promotion  of  women’s 
and  children’s  rights,  and  the  protection  of  human 
rights defenders. It is also essential that the perpetrators 
of  human  rights  violations  be  brought  to  justice. 
Switzerland  here  wishes  to  recall  the  important  role 
played by the International Criminal Court in the fight 
against impunity.
As far as the humanitarian system is concerned, it 
has clearly reached its limits as a result of the growing 
number,  longer  duration  and  increasing  complexity 
of  crises.  So  far  this  year,  82  million  people  have 
required  immediate  humanitarian  assistance.  That  is 
an  unprecedented  number.  The  World  Humanitarian 
Summit, which is to be held in Istanbul in May 2016, 
will afford us an opportunity to improve the efficiency 
of  the  humanitarian  system  in  order  to  enable  it  to 
better and more effectively respond to victims’ needs.
In  December,  Geneva  will  host  the  thirty-second 
International  Conference  of  the  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent.  That  will  be  an  important  opportunity  to 
make progress towards the creation of an institutional 
framework  in  which  to  discuss  how  we  can  improve 
compliance with international humanitarian law.
Let  us  continue  to  work  together  to  build  a 
modern and effective United Nations by reforming its 
governance. In this context, Geneva, as one of the main 
centres  of  global  governance,  has  an  essential  role  to 
play. The United Nations can count on the full support 
of my country, Switzerland, to strengthen it during the 
next 70 years.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Swiss Confederation for the statement 
she has just made.
Ms. Simonetta Sommaruga, President of the Swiss 
Confederation,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Robert Mugabe, President of the 
Republic of Zimbabwe
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Zimbabwe.
Mr.  Robert  Mugabe,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Zimbabwe, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
14/22 
15-29271
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.14
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Robert 
Mugabe, President of the Republic of Zimbabwe, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Mugabe: Allow me at the outset to extend 
to Mr. Mogens Lykketoft my warm congratulations on 
his election to the high office of President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session.  He  assumes  this 
office at an historic moment when the United Nations 
has just adopted an ambitious agenda for the future of 
humankind.  The  task  ahead  needs  all  hands  on  deck 
and he can count on our cooperation and support during 
his presidency.
I wish to commend Mr. Sam Kutesa, a distinguished 
son of Africa, for the dynamism with which he steered 
this body over the past year. We particularly appreciated 
his  leadership  in  promoting  inclusive  dialogue  and 
seeking consensus on the many sensitive issues that he 
presided over during his tenure of office.
The theme of this session — “The United Nations 
at  70:  the  road  ahead  for  peace,  security  and  human 
rights” —  aptly  complements  the  deliberations  of  the 
Summit meeting on the post-2015 development agenda. 
It is our expectation that the United Nations will draw 
from its seven decades of experiences to give birth to 
a new era of peace, equality and justice, a new era that 
recognizes and fosters the commonality of our common 
fate  through  renewed  international  cooperation  and 
solidarity. The African Union welcomes the priorities 
the President has proposed, for they go in tandem with 
our  own  development  plan,  the  Agenda  2063,  which 
recognizes  the  intrinsic  and  inextricable  linkages 
between  peace,  security,  development  and  the  full 
realization of human rights.
The  African  Union  Constitutive  Act  recognizes 
that  while  peace  and  security  are  imperative  for  our 
progress, conflict is a major impediment to the socio-
economic advancement and integration of the continent. 
Consequently,  the  Common  African  Position  on  the 
post-2015  development  agenda  designates  peace  and 
security as one of its six key pillars. It is a top priority 
for us.
The prevalence of peace not only creates conditions 
conducive  to  development,  but  also  ensures  that  the 
maximum  possible  resources  can  be  dedicated  to 
development  programmes  and  projects.  We  welcome 
and encourage the continued cooperation between the 
United  Nations  and  the  African  Union,  principally 
through  the  latter’s  Peace  and  Security  Council,  in 
advancing peace and security in Africa.
In January, the leaders of the African Union adopted 
Agenda  2063  as  our  continent’s  plan  to  accelerate 
deepened  economic  integration  of  our  countries  and 
regions.  Its  main  objective  is  to  improve  the  well-
being  of  the  continent’s  citizenry  through  sustained 
and balanced economic growth. At the African Union 
Summit in Pretoria, South Africa, in June this year we 
agreed on the Agenda’s first 10-year development plan.
flagship 
programmes will include the creation of a continental 
free-trade area, an African centre for disease control, 
a  pan-Africa  university  of  science  and  technology  to 
develop skills for the value addition and beneficiation 
of  the  continent’s  vast  mineral  resources,  a  single 
aviation market, a high-speed train, and a pan-African 
e-network.
initial  10  years, 
the 
During 
these 
The successful implementation of Agenda 2063 calls 
not just for the commitment of African stakeholders but 
also for the support and engagement of partners beyond 
the borders of our continent. Africa is not looking for 
handouts. Rather it is looking for partners in massive 
infrastructure development, in creating and exploiting 
the value chains from its God-given natural resources, 
and in improving the quality of life of the continent’s 
citizens. The entire world stands to benefit more from 
an  economically  empowered  African  continent  than 
from one emasculated by deprivation and with an over-
dependence on others.
Adaptation to change is the most crucial ingredient 
for the vibrancy and effectiveness of any organization, 
including  the  United  Nations.  While  the  world  has 
drastically  changed  since  1945,  the  United  Nations, 
and indeed the global governance architecture, remains 
mired  in  a  long  bygone  era.  This  archaic  hierarchy 
among  nations  threatens  to  erode  the  confidence  and 
support that the United Nations commands among the 
majority, but disadvantaged, of its membership. We are 
disappointed that we have lost the opportunity of this 
anniversary  to  address  this  burning  issue  of  Security 
Council    reform  in  a  manner  that  satisfies  the  just 
demands and expectations of the majority among us.
I wish to reiterate our strong attachment to Africa’s 
common position on Security Council reform contained 
in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration. 
I  call  on  all  genuine  friends  of  Africa  and  all  those 
15-29271
15/22
A/70/PV.14 
28/09/2015
who  value  justice,  fairness  and  democracy  to  support 
Africa’s just and reasonable proposals.
We  equally  call  for  the  revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly,  the  sole  universally  representative 
and  democratic  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  so  that 
it  can  effectively  carry  out  its  Charter-mandated 
responsibilities.  Accordingly,  we  fully  support  the 
call  for  inclusivity  and  transparency  in  selecting  our 
Organization’s  Secretary-General  by  ensuring  that 
the General Assembly plays a more significant role in 
that process. After all, the Secretary-General is at the 
service of all the Member States, and not only that of an 
exclusive, privileged few.
Respecting  and  upholding  human  rights  is  the 
obligation of all States and is enshrined in the United 
Nations Charter. Nowhere does the Charter arrogate the 
right to some to sit in judgement over others in carrying 
out this universal obligation. In that regard, we reject the 
politicization of this important issue and the application 
of double standards to victimize those who dare think 
and  act  independently  of  the  self-anointed  prefects  of 
our time. We equally reject attempts to prescribe new 
rights that are contrary to our values, norms, traditions 
and beliefs. We are not gays. Cooperation and respect 
for each other will advance the cause of human rights 
worldwide;  confrontation,  vilification  and  double 
standards will not.
Self-determination and independence are intrinsic 
and  fundamental  rights  that  should  be  enjoyed  by  all 
peoples everywhere, without distinction. We are deeply 
concerned  by  the  continued  denial  of  this  basic  right 
to the Saharan people. We urge the United Nations to 
expeditiously  finalize  what  must  be  done  to  conclude 
the decolonization of the Western Sahara.
In the Middle East, the suffering of the Palestinian 
people  continues  unabated.  What  does  Mr.  Obama 
say  about  that?  We  reiterate  our  unwavering  support 
for  the  just  cause  of  the  Palestinian  people.  Do  we 
agree, Mr. United States? We also reiterate that lasting 
peace in the Middle East can be achieved only through 
negotiations  to  achieve  a  two-State  solution  based  on 
the pre-1967 borders. We are concerned at the increase 
in tensions in that region and urge the United Nations 
to  assume  its  responsibility  and  bring  an  end  to  this 
senseless conflict.
The  promotion  of  gender  equality  is  critical  for 
the  realization  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda. 
The  African  Union  has  designated  2015  as  the  Year 
of  Women’s  Empowerment  and  Development  towards 
Agenda  2063  in  order  to  mobilize  our  individual 
and  collective  actions  around  this  key  issue.  Gender 
equality and women’s empowerment are central to the 
achievement of human development, progress and the 
elimination of the scourge of poverty and deprivation. 
We  must  continue  to  build  upon  the  achievements 
that  have  been  realized  since  the  1995  Fourth  World 
Conference on Women and the Beijing Declaration and 
Platform for Action.
The growing list of phenomena that neither respect 
nor  know  any  borders  makes  it  imperative  that  we 
mobilize all mechanisms for cooperation to effectively 
overcome  them.  Terrorism  and  extremist  violence, 
communicable  diseases  such  as  HIV  and  AIDS, 
tuberculosis,  malaria,  bird  flu,  and  Ebola  cannot  be 
overcome single-handedly. The United Nations and its 
specialized agencies are the place and the mechanism 
for this indispensable and necessary cooperation.
For some months now, we have watched heartbreaking 
and  harrowing  scenes  of  desperate  refugees  seeking 
to  enter  Europe  in  search  of  safety  and  shelter  from 
the  ravages  of  conflict  in  their  own  homelands.  We 
have  also  read  of  the  tragedy  and  loss  of  life  in  the 
Mediterranean.  The  majority  of  the  affected  people 
are  from  Syria  or  from  other  countries  devastated  by 
conflict  and  instability,  induced  in  great  part  by  the 
destabilizing policies of external forces.
This  tragic  situation  could  have  been  avoided 
through respect for the independence of other countries 
and  non-interference  in  their  internal  affairs.  In  the 
case of Libya, we are witnessing the results of abusing 
the authority of the Security Council and ignoring the 
opinion of regional organizations, in this instance the 
African Union, that are supposed to be the partners of 
the United Nations in the maintenance of international 
peace and security.
My country, Zimbabwe, is committed to a fair, just 
and effective United Nations in which multilateralism, 
inclusivity  and  transparency  replace  unilateralism, 
exclusion  and  back-room  deals.  The  Charter  of  the 
United Nations is built on the bedrock of the sovereign 
equality  and  independence  of  its  Members,  without 
distinction  as  to  their  geographical  size,  economic 
might  or  any  other  endowments  or  qualifications.  We 
are deeply attached to these principles and call on other 
Members of the United Nations to be similarly disposed. 
The United Nations was set up, among other purposes, to 
16/22 
15-29271
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.14
“develop friendly relations among nations”. Zimbabwe 
desires and is committed to nurturing friendly relations 
with other nations, but it cannot tolerate interference in 
its domestic affairs.
We  invite  other  countries  with  which  we  may 
have  differences  of  whatever  nature  —  including  the 
United  States  and  the  NATO  Powers  —  to  eschew 
threats,  pressures  and  punitive  actions  in  favour  of 
reconciliation,  friendship  and  dialogue.  I  therefore 
denounce  in  the  strongest  terms  the  illegal  sanctions 
that are imposed on my country by the European Union 
and  the  United  States  of  America  and  call  for  their 
immediate and unconditional removal. We do not know 
what wrong we have done to the United States. I would 
kindly ask it to leave us free and independent to do our 
own thing. Once more, I put on record that my country 
is desirous to live in harmony with all countries big and 
small. We have peace in Zimbabwe just now. We do not 
want war. We do not want interference. We do not want 
to hear of regime change at all.
The seventieth anniversary of our Organization has 
been marked by the adoption of a far-reaching Agenda 
that  has  the  potential  to  drastically  transform  our 
world in all aspects. We are under no illusion about the 
challenges that lie ahead, but we are not discouraged, 
either. Humankind has, over the epochs, demonstrated 
an 
inertia  and 
resistance to change. Now is our time to leave our own 
positive mark on the history of human development and 
interaction. Posterity expects no less from us.
in  overcoming 
immense 
tenacity 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Zimbabwe for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Robert  Mugabe,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Zimbabwe,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Ms. Cristina Fernández, President of 
the Argentine Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Argentine Republic.
Ms. Cristina Fernández, President of the Argentine 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Cristina 
Fernández, President of the Argentine Republic, and to 
invite her to address the Assembly.
President  Fernández  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  At 
the  outset,  allow  me  to  welcome  a  very  relevant 
event  that  took  place  here  a  few  days  ago  —  on 
10  September  —  when,  by  136  votes  in  favour,  the 
General  Assembly  approved  the  Basic  Principles  on 
Sovereign  Debt  Restructuring  Processes  (resolution 
69/319). That was a very significant triumph. 
New  principles  have  been  established  —  which  I 
have written down here so that I do not forget any of 
them — that should guide how we address and resolve 
matters  when  a  country  has  decided  to  renegotiate 
its  external  debt.  They  include  the  sovereignty  of  a 
country  to  decide  its  own  macroeconomic  policies 
and  how  it  will  restructure  its  debt;  good  faith, 
transparency,  impartiality,  and  equitable  treatment  so 
as not to distinguish among different creditors and so 
that  everybody  is  treated  in  the  same  manner.  They 
also include sovereign immunity from jurisdiction and 
execution, as well as legitimacy and sustainability.
The  latter  is  perhaps  one  of  the  most  important 
principles, as it refers to repaying and honouring one’s 
debts  —  not  at  the  cost  hunger  and  poverty  for  the 
people, but through a political and economic project and 
through macroeconomic variables that should make the 
development and growth of society sustainable. 
Finally comes perhaps the most important principle 
lacking today in terms of regulation of  sovereign debt. 
It  is  a  logical  principle  that  applies  in  nearly  all  the 
domestic legal systems throughout the world. When a 
company goes bankrupt and is unable to pay its debts in 
any country — including in this one, the United States 
of  America,  where  municipalities  are  also  allowed  to 
go bankrupt — how is consensus reached? Through a 
qualified  majority.  When  66  per  cent  of  the  creditors 
here in the United States, and also in my own country 
of the Argentine Republic, come to an agreement with 
the  debtor  with  regard  to  timetables  and  the  form  of 
the  payment,  that  becomes  law  and  is  mandatory  for 
the  other  creditors.  Let  me  repeat,  when  66  per  cent 
agree. That principle also enshrines the idea that when 
the majority decides on a form of payment, that should 
be accepted by everybody else.
15-29271
17/22
A/70/PV.14 
28/09/2015
agreement  — 
these 
principles 
in  2000,  history’s 
Mr.  Arízaga  (Ecuador),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
This 
and 
conventions — was approved here, and we have decided 
to  submit  it  to  our  parliament  for  it  to  become  an 
instrument of public order that controls our country’s 
domestic  practices.  It  has  its  roots  in  the  default  that 
Argentina  experienced 
largest 
sovereign default. At that time the world was growing 
by  more  than  good  rates.  However,  Argentina  went 
bankrupt  as  a  result  of  debts  that  had  been  incurred 
much earlier. In fact, to be more accurate, it began in 
earnest in 1976, when there was a coup d’état and the 
country’s  constitutional  order  was  overthrown,  and 
began  to  deepen  in  the  1990s  with  the  convertibility 
regime, by which they made us Argentines believe that 
an Argentine peso was worth $l. That culminated in the 
2001 default and in institutional bankruptcy: there were 
five different Governments in just one week.
Argentina, however, was able to rebuild its economy 
and  its  society  when  politics  once  again  took  control 
over the economy starting on 25 May 2003. It was then 
decided  to  summon  creditors  to  a  first  restructuring 
offer in 2005, and again in 2010 under my presidency. 
The  first  restructuring  was  during  the  presidency  of 
Néstor Carlos Kirchner, who in his first address to the 
General Assembly (see A/58/PV.11) said that the dead 
did  not  pay  their  debts  and  that  it  was  necessary  for 
the  creditors  to  allow  Argentina  to  grow  in  order  to 
be able to pay. That was neither a premonition on his 
part  nor  a  matter  of  foretelling  the  future.  He  simply 
applied economic logic: it was impossible to pay a debt 
in the absence of growth in the economy of the debtor 
country.  That  is  when  Argentina  began  its  inexorable 
process of getting out of debt.
But it also had to do with what happened in 2005, 
when  it  was  decided  to  pay  off  the  total  debt  to  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF),  which  had  been 
imposing macroeconomic policies on our country. That 
is when Argentina began to grow and linked itself up 
as  yet  another  wagon  to  the  locomotive  engine  of  the 
emerging countries, which were the ones that had been 
supporting  the  sustained  growth  of  the  international 
economy. Let us not forget that the greatest growth was 
led  by  the  emerging  countries,  essentially  headed  by 
the giants of Asia.
During my first address to the General Assembly 
as  President  of  the  Argentine  Republic,  in  September 
2008  (see  A/63/PV.5),  I  noted  how  the  locomotive 
that  was  driving  the  world  to  sustained  growth  had 
another locomotive engine added to it. Like those old 
trains with two locomotive engines, this one now also 
had two: China and the rest of the emerging countries, 
pulling  towards  growth  with  rates  that  in  the  case  of 
China had already attained 14 per cent growth in gross 
domestic product by 2007.
Then in 2008, with the fall of Lehman Brothers on 
Wall Street, came an economic crisis that we are still 
experiencing, but with several differences. Although it 
began  here  at  the  very  heart  of  international  finance, 
there  had  in  fact  been  signs  of  a  crisis,  namely,  the 
2007  sub-prime  mortgage  crisis,  which  ultimately 
exploded  in  2008.  The  year  2009  marked  the  global 
economic collapse, except in Asian countries. Even in 
Latin  America,  we  experienced  negative  growth  that 
year. In 2010 the crisis spread to the eurozone, and off 
they  went  to  the  rescue  of  indebted  countries.  We  all 
know that was a euphemism; the banks were actually 
the ones they went to rescue. Billions of dollars were 
transferred to banking institutions. I still remember a 
discussion that took place in London at the Group of 20. 
Our position was that, while it was necessary to save 
the banks to stave off a 1930s-type depression, it was 
also absolutely essential that there be regulation so that 
the  tide  of  resources  that  was  being  injected  into  the 
financial sector should flow back to the real economy, 
enter the goods and services production cycle and make 
the wheels of growth turn again.
But none of that happened. Indeed, on the contrary, 
adjustment policies were the consideration in exchange 
for being rescued. And the adjustment policy imposed 
on the eurozone caused a recession in that zone and a 
drop in employment to unprecedented lows: 50 per cent 
of young people in Italy unemployed, with double-digit 
unemployment in Spain as well.
That  is  how  we  got  to  2014  and  2015,  with  a 
sharp  decrease  in  global  demand.  Now  we  see  how 
that  crisis  train  —  the  Lehman  Brothers  locomotive 
engine, which departed from here, in the heart of Wall 
Street, and stopped off in Europe — is trying to move 
on  to  the  emerging  economies,  we  who  underpinned 
economic growth for so long. Argentina was and is part 
of  that  growth.  This  year,  despite  difficulties  and  the 
harassment by vulture funds, which do not collect nor 
do they allow the 92.7 per cent that agreed to the two 
restructurings to collect, with the complicity of a certain 
part of this country’s judiciary, there are demands that 
18/22 
15-29271
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.14
we pay 7 per cent of the creditors $20 billion, when the 
restructuring accepted by the 92 per cent had amounted 
to $40 billion.
What  is  the  capitalistic  logic  behind  this?  What 
is  the  mathematical  model  for  this?  How  long  would 
it  take  us  to  restructure  those  93  per  cent  if  we  met 
the demands of these predatory financiers, who make 
up only 7 per cent of the creditors, and paid them half 
of  what  we  paid  to  92  per  cent  of  the  creditors?  Any 
logical judge would say that was not right. One cannot 
pay to 7 per cent of the creditors half of what one pays 
the other 92 per cent of the creditors, particularly when 
some of the 7 per cent had bought lots of these bonds 
after  Argentina  had  already  defaulted  on  its  external 
debt.
It  is  for  that  reason  that  the  approval  of  the 
Basic  Principles  on  Sovereign  Debt  Restructuring 
Processes  —  for  which  there  are  some  precedents 
already  through  anti-vulture  laws  such  as  those  in 
the  Kingdom  of  Belgium  —  represents  help,  not  to 
Argentina,  which  is  depositing  100  per  cent  of  its 
debt to its creditors, but help to the rest of the world. 
It is the first serious attempt to introduce fairness and 
regulation  to  the  financial  and  derivatives  sectors, 
which, from the moment that merchant banks became 
investment banks, have remained outside the scope of 
all oversight and intervention.
That  is  why  we  say  that  what  was  agreed  on 
10  September  was  a  very  significant  and  major  step 
forward that must also be in line with the fact that the 
world is not doing well at all. That is not news to anyone. 
We  could  talk  about  the  refugee  crisis  resulting  from 
the  action  of  financial  predators  in  countries  that  do 
not manage to support their people who have to migrate 
to Europe in canoes or rafts from Africa, or about the 
refugees who have to flee their homelands because of 
warlords.
I  also  want  to  talk  to  the  Assembly  about  an 
unprecedented  process  of  economic  concentration 
that is unheard of in the world. According to the most 
recently released IMF report, 1 per cent of the global 
population  at  present  is  holding  50  per  cent  of  the 
wealth. Here, in this very country that once hosted the 
American dream — the dream of the American middle 
classes, which encouraged and continues to encourage 
so many Latin Americans to come here — 1 per cent 
have more than 30 per cent of the total wealth. How long 
can such a society or the world continue when income 
distribution is that unfair and with all the consequences 
of such unfairness?
Yesterday, at President Xi Jinping’s gender equality 
meeting, we pondered how gender empowerment could 
be  discussed  in  a  world  in  which  resources  are  so 
unequally  distributed;  how  much  gender  equality  can 
we find in a world that expels people from their home 
countries because they have become unlivable and when 
they are refused entry into other countries? That forces 
us to address the problem of the financial markets and 
the need to reinject resources into the real economy so 
that employment and production can be resumed as the 
main engines for societies’ welfare.
I  should  also  like  to  welcome  the  fact  —  and 
commend  the  United  States  of  America,  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  the  permanent  members  of  the 
Security  Council  and  Germany  —  that  an  agreement 
was reached on nuclear issues that will help to defuse 
the situation and provide more certainty and security to 
a  world  shrouded  in  conflicts  and  warmongering.  We 
were aware of those negotiations. We harboured hopes 
that  this  agreement  would  eventually  see  the  light  of 
day. 
Members  will  wonder  how  we  knew.  Easy.  In 
2010 Gary Samore, at that time the White House’s top 
adviser on nuclear issues, visited us in Argentina. He 
came to visit Argentina on a mission with one goal. In 
1987, under the first democratic Government and under 
the control of the International Atomic Energy Agency, 
Argentina  supplied  the  nuclear  fuel  for  the  reactor 
known  as  “Tehran”.  Gary  Samore  explained  to  our 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  Mr.  Héctor  Timerman, 
that  negotiations  were  under  way  on  an  agreement 
for  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  to  cease  its  uranium 
enrichment activities or to do it to a lesser extent, but 
that Iran claimed that it needed to enrich for the Tehran 
nuclear  reactor  and  that  was  hindering  negotiations. 
They  came  to  ask  us  to  provide  nuclear  fuel  to  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran. President Rouhani was not yet 
in office. The negotiations had begun under President 
Ahmadinejad.
I  remember  that  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
came to see me and submitted to me the proposal that 
Gary  Samore  had  brought.  He  had  already  informed 
the White House envoy that his request would be very 
difficult  to  satisfy  given  the  relationship  between 
Argentina  and  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  because 
of  the  terrorist  attack  against  the  Argentine  Israelite 
15-29271
19/22
A/70/PV.14 
28/09/2015
Mutual  Association  (AMIA)  that  had  taken  place  in 
1994 and the decision of the judge in the case to press 
charges  against  five  Iranian  citizens  and  summon 
them to appear in court. Against that backdrop, it was 
impossible for Argentina to make a contribution to the 
negotiation process, which, I repeat, was already under 
way in 2010. I looked at the Minister in my office — I 
recall this clearly — and I said that if the request was 
made in writing and signed, we could cooperate despite 
all that, because we believed that the attainment of the 
nuclear non-proliferation objective was important.
Members  know  that  Argentina  is  a  member  of  a 
select  club  of  nuclear  energy-producing  countries  but 
that, nonetheless, we occupy a leading position in the 
field  of  non-proliferation.  Therefore,  for  us  nuclear 
non-proliferation  is  also  a  question  of  governmental 
interest. That is what I said to my Minister for Foreign 
Affairs,  who  in  turn  conveyed  to  the  White  House 
envoy that we would agree to provide the fuel, because 
it had been in the hands of Argentina since 1987 and we 
also had the necessary technology to produce it — in 
exchange, obviously, for such a request to be submitted 
in  writing  and  signed.  That  message  was  conveyed.  I 
believe that that was the last time that the Minister saw 
Mr. Samore.
Thus  by  2013,  when  Argentina  signed 
the 
memorandum  of  understanding  with 
the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  to  unblock  the  legal  matter  that  had 
brought  the  case  to  a  halt  years  ago  —  and  please 
bear in mind that the attack took place in 1994 and I 
am  now  referring  to  what  happened  in  2013  —  other 
Governments  had  intervened,  there  had  been  other 
developments. And, because we were strongly convinced 
of the need to combat terrorism and of the importance 
of  remembering,  of  honouring  truth  and  justice  and 
clarification,  we  were  trying  to  find  those  who  were 
guilty of that terrorist attack and to punish them. 
That  was  the  objective  of  the  memorandum  of 
understanding.  However,  it  seems  as  if  all  hell  broke 
loose with the signing of the memorandum. Time passed, 
and when the agreement was signed on 2 April between 
the  5+1  and  Iran  —  no  longer  with  Ahmadinejad  but 
with Rouhani — and with the negotiations well under 
way, one could not but wonder why there was so much 
opposition  and  criticism  against  us  negotiating  with 
Iran a simple agreement of judicial cooperation for the 
Argentine judge to depose in Teheran the five Iranian 
citizens accused because of the laws that prevented the 
extradition  of  Iranian  citizens.  What  was  the  reason? 
I  learned  it  here  from  the  mouth  of  another  President 
regarding  hypocrisy  in  diplomatic  relations.  There  is 
much  hypocrisy  blended  with  a  lot  of  geopolitics  and 
very  little  interest  in  setting  the  record  straight  when 
it comes to remembering and honouring the truth and 
justice demanded by the victims and their families.
We later sent a bill on this treaty to our Congress, 
which  approved.  I  say  to  President  Obama  that  I 
fervently  hope  that  the  United  States  Congress  will 
also  approve  the  agreement,  or  at  least  refrain  from 
blocking  it,  as  it  will  be  an  important  contribution  to 
global peace.
We are coherent in our approach. It is not that what 
applies to us does not apply to others, although we use 
elements or instruments that have little to do with the 
objectives we declare to harm the relation or the image 
of a country, but that is the reality of the situation.
Finally,  the  judge  hearing  the  AMIA  case  also 
considered it to be a mechanism apt to shed light and 
to allow him to depose the accused. An appellate court 
was not of the same mind, and today the case has all but 
come to a halt. Today we can appeal only to the goodwill 
of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  because  we  have  no 
other instrument to obtain the Iranians’ depositions.
But there have been developments in my country. 
Under way today, on the grounds of concealment, is an 
action brought against the highest ranking authorities 
and intelligence and judicial officials taking part in the 
AMIA case since 1994. The proceeding is now at the 
oral and public trial stage.
After my order late last year to remove from office 
whole  sectors  of  Argentina’s  intelligence  officials 
on  the  grounds  of  strong  suspicions  that  they  had 
hindered  the  investigation  and  opposed  attempts  to 
unblock the case by going and deposing the Iranians, 
I  dismissed  some  high-ranking  officials,  some  of 
whom had been in office since 1972 and had rendered 
services  to  all  the  dictatorial  Governments  and  all 
the  other  Administrations,  including  my  own.  Some 
of  those  dismissed  officials  have  settled  here  in  the 
United  States.  A  few  days  after  these  dismissals,  the 
investigating prosecutor, Alberto Nisman, died.
All  this  amounts  to  something  more  than  I  have 
already  said.  I  have  always  maintained  that  AMIA 
was a complex game of chess in international politics. 
Today I believe that, in addition to a chess game, it is 
also spiderweb of interests alien to my country. As with 
20/22 
15-29271
28/09/2015 
A/70/PV.14
all spiderwebs, it is only the weakest and the smallest 
that get caught, while the others remain outside.
regime.  If  we  are  accomplices  of  the  Iranian  regime, 
then what is President Barack Obama? Is he not also?
In the trial for concealment being pursued now, the 
commencement of which was delayed almost 14 years, 
and also in the investigation under way into the death 
of Prosecutor Nisman, some details are being revealed 
of  horrific  linkages  to  external  secret  services,  bank 
accounts  abroad  and  relationships  with  vulture  funds 
that have been denounced not by me but by individuals 
who  are  themselves  members  of  my  country’s  Jewish 
community.
I am not here to talk with hypocrisy or lies, I am 
talking about what is actually happening. A few days 
ago  we  summoned  the  United  States  Ambassador 
in  our  country  for  an  explanation  of  the  capacity  in 
which  a  particular  former  member  of  the  intelligence 
services of Argentina was in the United States. He was 
in charge of the entire investigation of the AMIA case 
from  the  outset.  I  was  just  a  provincial  deputy  in  the 
south of the country, in Patagonia, and a delegate to the 
constitutional convention when the bomb exploded, and 
that person was already in charge of the investigation. 
The investigation into the death of Prosecutor Nisman 
is now proving his total and absolute connection with 
the Prosecutor, as well as that of other individuals. 
On  instructions  from  the  Ministry  for  Foreign 
Affairs,  our  Ambassador  to  the  United  States  has 
submitted two letters to the State Department and also 
held meetings with the State Department to ask in what 
capacity that person was here in the United States. He 
is almost protected. I do not know from what or from 
whom,  but  he  is  here  and  protected.  A  few  days  ago, 
the new prosecutors in the AMIA case asked Interpol 
to issue a Blue Notice concerning the whereabouts of 
that individual. 
As we have been doing since 2007, first President 
Kirchner  and  then  me,  every  year  we  have  been 
requesting  the  cooperation  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran  to  clarify  the  attack.  Today  we  are  also  asking 
for the cooperation of the United States. Judges in our 
country want to know the whereabouts of this official 
whom everybody refers to as someone closely connected 
to the case, and a cover-up is even mentioned.
Members may ask themselves why I spend so much 
time  on  this  issue.  It  is  very  little  compared  with  the 
time  that  organizations  paid  by  vulture  funds  have 
devoted  in  this  country  to  criticizing,  slandering  and 
offending us as if we were accomplices of the Iranian 
Hypocrisy  and  double  standards  cannot  continue 
in  diplomacy.  We  cannot  continue  to  use  weapons 
and  instruments  of  international  intrigue  —  old 
ones — worthy of a John le Carré novel. The world is 
a world of communications, of the globalization of the 
Internet,  which  some  dreamed  would  enable  them  to 
better dominate the entire world. Today the Internet is 
a very powerful communication tool for everyone, the 
entire global village where everybody knows instantly 
what is happening in a particular place in the world.
Our  Government  in  Argentina  will 
tirelessly 
continue to seek truth and justice in the AMIA case. We 
ask for the cooperation of the country whose citizens 
are  accused,  and  of  this  country,  the  United  States, 
so that it will also help to clarify the presence of this 
citizen,  who  will  surely  be  required,  as  he  is  already 
being required, by the State agencies in our country.
In  this  world  of  economic  crisis  —  and  I  was 
listening  closely  to  some  of  today’s  speeches  —  the 
truth is that enemies change and mutate with amazing 
speed.  I  remember  the  most  recent  G-20  meeting  in 
which  I  participated  —  I  was  absent  for  the  last  one 
for  health  reasons  —  in  St.  Petersburg,  where  those 
who confronted the Government of Syria, the freedom 
fighters,  were  those  who  had  to  be  supported  by  the 
entire  Western  world.  Today  the  freedom  fighters  are 
part  of  the  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  Shams.  I  should 
like to ask members how this seemingly Islamic group 
actually functions. Who finances it? 
When  one  sees  these  horrendous  scenes  where 
people have their throats slit and where one can clearly 
see three or four cameras filming the scenes, it is like 
a movie. It is not simply a home-made film such as a 
fundamentalist group could make with a simple camera. 
No,  this  is  almost  a  full-on  production.  At  times  it 
seems almost like a Francis Ford Coppola movie. Four 
or five cameras are used, and the faces are never shown. 
It would be good if we asked ourselves from where is all 
this financed. That would help to ensure that the world 
can  find  clues  to  combat  one  of  the  worst  scourges 
facing humankind today: fundamentalism of whatever 
nature, whether dogmatic or religious, but mainly those 
who consider their neighbour an enemy and a target to 
be eliminated.
I do not want to leave the Assembly today only with 
problems of debt and the economy or terrorist attacks 
15-29271
21/22
A/70/PV.14 
28/09/2015
and international complicity. I also wish to pay homage 
to the continent of which I feel I am a daughter, Latin 
America. 
Not  long  before  I  spoke,  the  President  of  Cuba, 
Raứl  Castro,  a  President  and  a  comrade  whom  I  love 
and  admire,  spoke  to  the  Assembly.  For  the  first 
time in 17 years the President of Cuba is back here in 
the  General  Assembly.  The  truth  is  that  for  us  Latin 
Americans,  members  of  the  Common  Market  of  the 
South,  the  Union  of  South  American  Nations  and  the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
who  have  struggled  so  much,  discussed  so  much  and 
argued so much so that Cuba can return to be part of 
these  multilateral  entities,  we  see  this  as  a  triumph 
of  perseverance  by  the  region,  and  fundamentally  an 
achievement by Cuba.
We  also  recognize  the  Government  of  the  United 
States, which has finally opened its mind and understood 
that things could not continue as they had done in the 
past.  I  should  like  to  thank  another  Latin  American 
who  was  also  in  this  very  same  Hall  —  and  who  has 
perhaps greater authority than the rest of us because he 
sits on the throne of St. Peter in Rome — who played a 
determining role in establishing the agreement between 
the  United  States  and  Cuba.  He  came  here  and  spoke 
from  this  platform  (see  A/70/PV.3)  to  the  world  and 
said that money cannot continue to determine politics 
and that there was a basic principle understood by all 
religions, that is, “Do not do to others what you would 
not like others to do to you”.
As a Latin American I also had the joy of seeing the 
other day in Havana the photograph of the President of 
Colombia, the President of Cuba and the representative 
of  the  Revolutionary  Armed  Forces  of  Colombia 
launching the end of a conflict that has been going on 
for more than 50 years and that they had tried to end 
with bombs and rifles. No, political, social and cultural 
conflicts are not resolved with bombs and rifles; they 
are  resolved  by  talking,  through  dialogue  and  the 
acceptance of others.
I  am  pleased  to  be  part  of  the  Latin  American 
region,  where  we  do  not  have  religious  or  cultural 
clashes, where we are all children or grandchildren of 
immigrants  and  where  we  still  receive  even  internal 
migrations. In my country the public and free national 
universities  host  students  from  across  the  continent. 
We do not issue a red card to anyone, for we believe it 
is necessary to contribute to and establish a more just 
world.
For  that  reason  I  say  that  Latin  America  —  once 
perhaps the emblem of inequality — with the growth 
achieved  by  the  national,  popular  and  democratic 
Governments  that  some  call  populist  but  which  have 
incorporated millions of our fellow citizens and which 
have  allowed  our  citizens  to  enjoy  the  benefits  of 
education, health and housing — today we say that we 
are a growing continent, a continent of integration.
Perhaps 
the  contribution 
that  Argentina  has 
made  —  it  was  left  alone  in  2001  but  could  still 
reconstruct  our  country,  and  today  its  gross  domestic 
product will grow by 2.7 per cent — allows us to say that 
inclusion,  growth,  development,  production  and  trade 
will be reactivated only by employing the millions who 
have lost their jobs, improving the wages of those who 
get a pittance, respecting the rights of young people and 
children and, on the basis of synthesis, creating a fairer, 
more equitable and more egalitarian society.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Argentine Republic for the statement 
she has just made.
Ms. Cristina Fernández, President of the Argentine 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
The meeting rose at 6.55 p.m.
22/22 
15-29271
