United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
56th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 17 November 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.56
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Zinsou (Benin), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
Nations  system  in  the  area  of  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear energy.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 87 (continued)
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting 
the report of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (А/70/219)
Draft resolution (A/70/L.8)
Mr.  Bustamante  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Argentina would like to express its appreciation of and 
support  for  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA) and its thanks for the Agency’s annual report for 
2014 (see A/70/219). Argentina believes that the Agency 
plays a very important role in international cooperation 
for  scientific  and  technological  development  in  the 
nuclear field and non-proliferation.
Argentina  stresses  the  technical  and  procedural 
nature  of  the  draft  resolution  (A/70/L.8),  which  does 
not  introduce  distorting  political  elements.  We  thank 
the Federative Republic of Brazil for its efforts..
The efficiency of the Agency’s verification system 
with  regard  to  nuclear  activities  is  fundamental  for 
achieving the non-proliferation objectives. Our country 
has  steadily  maintained  that  the  central  matter  of 
the  future  design  of  the  nuclear  security  architecture 
should be the responsibility of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency, as it is the relevant body of the United 
Argentina  believes  that  one  of  the  pillars  of  the 
Agency’s  work  is  nuclear  and  radiation  security  and 
the  safe  transport  and  management  of  radioactive 
waste  —  areas  that  my  country  considers  very 
important. A central objective of the Agency is to foster 
and  encourage  international  cooperation  on  nuclear 
issues,  and  Argentina  has  continuously  contributed 
with various programmes and activities.
International safeguards constitute another pillar of 
the Agency. Along with nuclear and radiation security, 
they  are  especially  important  for  facilitating  nuclear 
development. My country reiterates its conviction that 
those guarantees should be developed in an atmosphere 
of  cooperation  and  dialogue  between  the  Agency  and 
the States.
Argentina believes that joint efforts are necessary 
in  order  to  generate  stronger  nuclear  infrastructures 
that are more solid, efficient and sustainable over time.
Mrs.  Natividad  (Philippines):  On  behalf  of  the 
Philippine Government and the Filipino people, allow 
me to express our solidarity with and sympathy to the 
people of Beirut and Paris in this time of great sorrow 
following the recent terrorist attacks that killed hundreds 
of people. We stand in solidarity with the international 
community in condemning those horrific attacks and in 
the fight against terrorism. It is urgent, now more than 
ever, to bolster the global non-proliferation regime so 
that terrorists are not able to possess nuclear weapons 
or weapons of mass destruction.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-37314 (E)
*1537314*
A/70/PV.56 
17/11/2015
The  Philippines  welcomes 
In the face of those threats, the Philippines recalls 
the  recent  assistance  provided  by  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), as well as the United 
States  Department  of  Energy,  in  strengthening  the 
Philippines’  nuclear  security  measures  to  ensure  the 
security  of  all  our  visitors  and  nationals  within  our 
borders. For that, the Philippines is most grateful.
the  report  of 
the 
Agency for the year 2014 (see A/70/219) and lauds the 
continuing  balanced  manner  in  which  its  objectives 
have been pursued and implemented. The IAEA’s active 
involvement  in  the  deliberations  for  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  is  also 
worth noting and commending. There is no doubt that 
nuclear science and technology will play a crucial role 
in  the  achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  such  as  in  the  areas  of  health,  energy,  water, 
agriculture  and  food  security  and  climate  change,  to 
name but a few.
The  Philippines  has  tremendously  benefited  from 
the  Agency’s  Technical  Cooperation  Programme  over 
the years. IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano was 
in the Philippines in January to witness the country’s 
latest  advances  in  nuclear  science  and  technology. 
Our  electron-beam  irradiation  facility,  which  was 
established with the Agency’s assistance, is now fully 
operational and is handling the grafting of abaca fibres 
to produce metal adsorbents and honey alginate for the 
dressing of wounds.
Next  month,  the  Philippines  will  hold  its  third 
Nuclear Congress, which will provide a useful platform 
for the exchange of information on the current state of 
global,  regional  and  national  applications  in  nuclear 
science and technology for development and inclusive 
growth.
In  the  area  of  nuclear  safety,  the  Philippines 
welcomes the approval by the IAEA Board of Governors 
of  the  six  new  safety  requirements,  which  will  be 
established  as  safety  standards  in  an  effort  to  further 
strengthen the global nuclear safety framework.
We also support the establishment of the Emergency 
Preparedness and Response Standards Committee and 
intend to participate actively in its work. The Philippines 
also  commends  the  IAEA’s  report  on  the  Fukushima 
Daiichi  accident,  which  was  the  product  of  extensive 
international  collaboration  among  experts  from  42 
member States, including my country. The Philippines 
is working with the IAEA to enhance its capability to 
cope with nuclear or radiological emergencies through 
the establishment of an online environmental radiation 
monitoring system, comprising initially five stations.
On  nuclear  security,  the  Agency  is  assisting  us 
in  setting  up  a  nuclear  security  support  centre.  The 
European  Commission  Joint  Research  Centre  and  the 
United States Department of Energy are also providing 
a  radiation  portal  monitor  for  training  front-line  and 
border control officers.
The  Philippines  is  also  an  active  partner  in  the 
implementation  of  the  Integrated  Nuclear  Security 
Support  Plan.  To  strengthen  cooperation  among  our 
various  Government  agencies  in  the  field  of  nuclear 
security, we convened a workshop on threat assessment 
and design basis threat in April.
The Philippines welcomes the Joint Comprehensive 
Plan  of  Action  (JCPOA)  agreed  to  by  the  E3/EU+3 
and  Iran,  as  well  as  Security  Council  resolution  2231 
(2015) endorsing the JCPOA. The Philippines calls for 
full compliance with that agreement and the resolution 
of  outstanding  and  remaining  issues.  We  also  look 
forward  to  the  December  2015  report  of  the  Director 
General,  which  will  provide  the  final  assessment  on 
the resolution of all past and present outstanding issues 
concerning Iran’s nuclear programme of action by the 
Board of Governors.
The  Philippines  also  continues 
the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to abandon all 
its nuclear weapons and existing nuclear programmes, 
to  return  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  and  to  fully  comply  with  IAEA 
safeguards and relevant Security Council resolutions.
to  urge 
In  closing,  allow  me  to  reiterate  the  Philippines’ 
strong  commitment  to  the  work  of  the  IAEA  and  to 
contributing,  as  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Governors 
for  2015-2016,  to  improving  the  Agency’s  operations 
and  looking  into  ways  that  nuclear  science  and 
technology  can  improve  people’s  lives  and  contribute 
to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda.
Mr. Moselle (United States of America): The United 
States fully supports the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (IAEA) and the great breadth of work reflected 
in  the  IAEA’s  2014  annual  report  (see  A/70/219).  We 
would also like to thank Director General Amano for 
his leadership.
For  many  years  we  have  joined  the  consensus 
in  this  forum  on  the  draft  resolution  before  us  today 
2/7 
15-37314
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.56
(A/70/L.8), expressing our strong collective support for 
the IAEA and its work.
The  IAEA  annual  report  for  2014  is  the  report 
of  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors  mandated  by  the 
IAEA  Statute.  It  was  approved  by  the  IAEA  General 
Conference  without 
in  accordance 
with the IAEA Statute. It is submitted to the General 
Assembly in accordance with the United Nations/IAEA 
relationship. 
reservations, 
It is a shame that this routine resolution of support 
for the IAEA should be politicized. We were similarly 
disappointed by Russia’s efforts to suggest changes to 
the  2014  IAEA  annual  report  when  it  was  considered 
by the Board of Governors in Vienna. Russia’s position 
is a clear attempt to amend technical IAEA documents, 
including  this  annual  report,  to  imply  recognition  of 
Russia’s attempted annexation of Crimea. Those efforts 
are  inconsistent  with  resolution  68/262  on  Crimea’s 
sovereignty, and they were roundly rejected in Vienna. 
Crimea remains an integral part of Ukraine. Ultimately, 
the IAEA Board of Governors, subsequent to the IAEA 
General  Conference,  made  it  clear  that  such  political 
efforts  had  no  place  in  a  technical  document  from  a 
technical agency.
We  commend  Brazil’s  efforts  with  regard  to  the 
draft resolution, and we stand with Brazil as a sponsor. 
We  encourage  all  States  to  join  us  in  supporting  the 
draft resolution, as we have done in years past.
Mr.  Špokauskas  (Lithuania):  Let  me  thank  the 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA), Mr. Yukiya Amano, for his presentation 
of  the  Agency’s  annual  report  (see  A/70/219)  and  the 
update on its activities in 2015. 
Lithuania is pleased to co-sponsor and will vote in 
favour of the draft resolution on the report of the IAEA 
(A/70/L.8),  reaffirming  the  indispensable  role  of  the 
Agency with regard to non-proliferation and the use of 
atomic energy for peaceful purposes, as well as nuclear 
verification,  safety  and  security.  We  thank  Brazil  for 
its skilful guidance in the difficult negotiations on this 
important draft resolution.
Lithuania associates itself fully with the statement 
made  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (see  A/70/
PV.55).
Nuclear  energy  is  a  viable  solution  in  the  face  of 
the  challenges  facing  the  international  community 
arising  from  climate  change  and  the  need  to  ensure 
energy  security.  Yet  nuclear  energy  has  a  future 
only  if  developed  in  the  most  responsible  way  and  in 
conformity with the spirit and letter of the international 
safety 
requirements.  Lithuania 
appreciates the role of the IAEA in setting high nuclear 
safety standards through the constant improvement of 
regulations, assistance in implementation and efforts to 
foster the concept of safety culture.
standards 
and 
The comments by the Russian delegation with regard 
to  the  IAEA  report  and  the  nuclear  facilities  on  the 
Crimean peninsula (see A/70/PV.55) are disconcerting 
and do not reflect reality. Lithuania is concerned that 
the work of the Agency is being politicized by bringing 
up  the  issue  of  the  illegal  occupation  and  annexation 
of  Crimea  by  the  Russian  Federation.  We  regard  that 
as  a  detrimental  attempt  to  influence  the  work  of  the 
Agency, which is an independent and technical agency. 
The  position  of  the  Assembly  regarding  Crimea  is 
very clear. Resolution 68/262 affirms its commitment 
to  the  sovereignty,  political  independence,  unity  and 
territorial integrity of Ukraine within the internationally 
recognized  borders.  Crimea  remains  part  of  Ukraine, 
and  its  illegal  annexation  constituted  a  breach  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations and its principles.
facilities 
in  Sevastopol, 
Moreover,  the  decision  of  the  IAEA  to  classify 
all  nuclear 
including 
research  reactor  IR-100,  as  belonging  to  Ukraine  was 
completely in line with resolution 68/262, which calls 
upon  all  international  organizations  and  specialized 
agencies  not  to  recognize  any  alteration  in  the  status 
of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of 
Sevastopol and to refrain from any action that might be 
interpreted as recognizing any such altered status.
For  those  reasons,  Lithuania  urges  all  Member 
States to maintain their support for the draft resolution, 
as in previous years.
Mr. An Myong Hun (Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea):  The  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to  state  its  position  on 
a  nuclear  issue  that  was  mentioned  in  a  prejudicial 
manner in the annual report of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA) (see A/70/219).
The  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula  is 
the  direct  product  of  the  hostile  policy  of  the  United 
States  and  its  nuclear  threats  against  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  If  the  United  States  had 
not acted with hostility against the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  and  had  not  threatened  it  with  its 
15-37314
3/7
A/70/PV.56 
17/11/2015
nuclear  weapons,  the  nuclear  issue  would  never  have 
been  created  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  Since  the 
nuclear  issue  of  the Korean peninsula  was  created by 
the United States, its solution will depend entirely upon 
the United States terminating its hostile policy against 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Nevertheless,  each  year, 
the  IAEA  presents 
its  partial  and  unjust  report  and  draft  resolution, 
intentionally following the hostile policy of the United 
States  against  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea.  If  the  IAEA  sincerely  wants  a  solution  to  the 
nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula,  it  should  call 
to account the United States, which created the nuclear 
issue and constantly threatens the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea with its nuclear weapons.
However,  the  IAEA  report  mentions  the  nuclear 
issue  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
only  in  a  discriminatory  manner,  without  mentioning 
even one word about the nuclear threat and blackmail 
by the United States. The attitude of the IAEA cannot 
be construed otherwise than as being unfair, which is 
far short of impartiality in its work. It is none other than 
the IAEA that in the past created suspicion regarding 
the  peaceful  nuclear  activities  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  at  the  instigation  of  the 
United  States;  and  none  other  than  the  United  States 
and the IAEA that compelled the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  to  take  self-defensive  action  by 
withdrawing from the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons.
The  IAEA  should  learn  a  lesson  from  having 
produced such unprecedented serious consequences by 
blindly followed the hostile policy of the United States 
against  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea. 
The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea takes this opportunity to urge the IAEA not to 
blindly  follow  the  hostile  policy  of  the  United  States 
any  longer.  The  IAEA  should  bear  in  mind  that  the 
annual submission of this kind of report, which is full 
of prejudice and distortions, does not at all help address 
the issue.
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has 
never recognized the relevant resolutions of the IAEA 
Board  of  Governors,  not  to  speak  of  the  relevant 
Security Council resolutions. 
As  long  as  the  United  States’  extremely  hostile 
policy  against  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  continues,  no  solution  can  be  expected  with 
regard to the nuclear issue or to the peace and security 
of the Korean peninsula and beyond.
the 
The  aggressive  joint  nuclear  military  exercises 
staged every year by the United States in South Korea, 
despite  strong  condemnation  of 
international 
society constitute concrete manifestations of the United 
States’  hostile  policy  against  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea. As long as United States continues 
to  infringe  upon  the  sovereignty  and  dignity  of  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and drives dark 
clouds  of  nuclear  war  towards  the  Korean  peninsula, 
the  nuclear  issue  cannot  be  solved.  On  the  contrary, 
such actions will only lead to the further modernization 
and  qualitative  and  quantitative  improvements  of  the 
nuclear deterrent capability of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea.
As  has  already  been  clarified,  the  nuclear  power 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  serves 
to deter attacks and aggression against the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, defend the nation’s security 
and safeguard the peace and security of the region. The 
nuclear  power  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  does  not  constitute  a  threat  to  non-nuclear-
weapon  States  that  are  not  engaged  in  attacks  or 
aggression against the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea.
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will 
fulfil  its  obligations  assumed  before  the  international 
community  with  a  high  sense  of  responsibility  as  a 
nuclear-weapon State.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  There  is  universal  agreement  that  the  real 
nuclear threat in the Middle East is Israel’s possession 
of nuclear weapons, including long-range missiles that 
can threaten the whole region and, with their range of 
5,000 miles, can even reach the Chinese border. 
Yet  some  do  not  recognize  that  obvious  fact, 
preferring to draw attention to other, illusionary issues 
in order to avoid any focus on the real threat resulting 
from  Israel’s  nuclear  reality.  This  tendency  lacks 
integrity  and  objectivity  and  unveils  their  allegations 
when  they  espress  keenness  to  establish  a  nuclear-
weapon-free zone in the Middle East. For decades they 
provided  Israel  with  nuclear  technology  and  material 
that  enabled  it  to  acquire  nuclear  weapons,  including 
advanced 
submarines  capable  of  carrying  and 
launching nuclear missiles. They have done their best, 
quite  illogically,  to  keep  the  international  community 
4/7 
15-37314
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.56
from  focusing  on  that  important  issue  during  the 
Review Conferences of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  which 
were  held  in  2010  and  2015  in  New  York.  They  also 
worked  to  thwart  the  2012  Conference  on  a  nuclear-
free zone in the Middle East in order to help conceal 
the fact Israel was still acquiring a nuclear weapon at 
the expense of the safety and security of the peoples in 
the  region,  proving  once  again  their  policy  of  double 
standards.
In  his  statement,  the  Director  General  of  the 
IAEA referred to the fact that the Agency had recently 
concluded  that  it  was  highly  probable  that  a  building 
destroyed at Dair Alzour was a nuclear reactor, which 
should  have  been  declared  to  the  Agency.  In  that 
context, please allow me to state the following.
First, the Director General of the IAEA knows quite 
well  that  Syria  made  the  non-proliferation  of  nuclear 
weapons one of its national priorities in both words and 
deeds. Therefore, early on, back in 1968, Syria started 
by acceding to the NPT. It also signed the Safeguards 
Agreements  with  the  Agency  in  1992.  Moreover,  on 
27  December  2003,  Syria,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
Arab States, submitted to the Security Council a draft 
resolution  on  the  topic  that  is  still  in  blue.  That  draft 
sought to establish a zone free of nuclear weapons and 
all  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle 
East. All of that underscores the fact that the credibility 
of our national commitment to non-proliferation cannot 
be questioned. That is particularly the case since that 
draft, which is in line with the provisions and objectives 
of the IAEA, met with the objection of the United States 
of America, which threatened to use the veto against it.
Second,  the  Security  Council  and  the  IAEA  did 
not  condemn  the  Israeli  military  aggression  against 
Syria or Israel’s refusal to cooperate with the Agency, 
nor did the Council allow Agency inspectors to inspect 
the  pollution  that  is  potentially  due  to  the  Israeli 
missiles and the materials used to destroy and pollute 
that site. We must also take into consideration Israel’s 
continued refusal to cooperate with IAEA requests, its 
ongoing development of its nuclear military capabilities 
beyond any international supervision or control and its 
disregard  for  all  calls  to  turn  the  Middle  East  into  a 
zone free of nuclear weapons.
threatens 
the 
Non-Proliferation  Treaty  and  the  safety  and  security 
of  the  States  and  the  peoples  in  the  Middle  East  and 
undermines  the  universality  of  the  Treaty.  Those  are 
the  credibility  of 
All  of 
this 
very dangerous issues. The facts have been corroborated 
and  documented,  and  are  known  to  the  IAEA.  We 
expected the Director General of the IAEA to refer to 
those facts in his statement instead of using expressions 
devoid of any real meaning, such as “It was very likely 
that...”.
Third, it would be useful here to read a paragraph 
from  the  memoirs  of  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  the 
previous  Director  General  of  the  IAEA,  entitled  The 
Age of Deception: Nuclear Diplomacy in Treacherous 
Times. I quote from pages 228 and 229:
(spoke in English)
“One of the strangest and most striking example 
of nuclear hypocrisy, multilateral and multifaceted, 
must surely be Israel’s bombing of the Dair Alzour 
installation  in  Syria  in  September  2007,  and  the 
aftermath of that attack. Speculation began almost 
immediately  that  the  site  had  housed  a  nuclear 
facility. Syria denied the accusations. Israel and the 
United  States  remained  officially  silent,  although 
American  officials  spoke  anonymously  on  the 
subject  to  the  media.  I  spoke  out  strongly,  noting 
that  any  country  with  information  indicating  that 
the bombed facility was nuclear was under a legal 
obligation  to  report  it  to  the  IAEA.  But  no  one 
came forward with such a report. For the six weeks 
following  the  bombing,  the  most  crucial  period 
in terms of our seeing inside the facility, we were 
unable to obtain any high resolution images from 
commercial satellites.”
(spoke in Arabic)
Despite  that  account,  Mr.  Amano  has,  for  four 
consecutive years, been repeating the same erroneous 
and  misleading  statements 
this 
morning.
that  he  repeated 
Fourth,  the  commitment  of  the  member  States 
to  the  Statute  of  the  IAEA  would  have  required  the 
United  States  of  America  to  inform  the  Agency  with 
the  information  they  had  before  they  destroyed  the 
building, and not eight months after it was destroyed. 
The same applies to Israel, which did not provide the 
Agency with any information. Not only did it not provide 
all  the  information  —  that  is,  if  the  information  was 
correct — but it also launched a military aggression on 
sovereign Syrian territory by infiltrating the air space 
of a neighbouring country, namely, Turkey. The Agency 
did not deal with the issue according to its mandate. It 
did not follow the necessary procedures in accordance 
15-37314
5/7
A/70/PV.56 
17/11/2015
with its responsibilities and prerogatives with regard to 
Israel’s violation of its international obligations.
Fifth,  most  of  the  conclusions  of  the  Agency 
under the current mandate of Director General Amano 
with  regard  to  the  Dair  Alzour  site  have  been  based 
on  the  photos  and  analysis  submitted  by  the  Central 
Intelligence  Agency.  That  raises  a  lot  of  questions  as 
to  the  credibility  of  that  information  received  by  the 
IAEA and the nature of the supporting documents. The 
fact  that  a  State  that  follows  a  hostile  policy  towards 
my country’s interests presented the documents should 
also be taken into account, as should the precedents on 
the issue relating to the catastrophic Iraqi dossier. That 
file  is  misleading  and  led  to  the  invasion  of  Iraq,  the 
destruction  of  its  infrastructure  and  the  promotion  of 
terrorism. The result came years later, in 2008, when 
the  report  of  the  United  Nations  Special  Commission 
established  pursuant  to  Security  Council  resolution 
687  (1991  (UNSCOM)  was  placed  in  a  box  marked 
“Confidential”,  not  to  be  opened  for  60  years.  Why 
is that? Because the report concluded that UNSCOM, 
which was looking for weapons of mass destruction in 
Iraq, could not find any.
Sixth,  the  recent  report  of  the  Director  General 
includes inconclusive conclusions based on information 
that  lacked  credibility  and  comprehensiveness,  and 
which contradicted the assessments of his predecessor, 
Mr. ElBaradei. That also raises a lot of questions that 
require justification and clarification.
Seventh, it is obvious that there is an intermingling 
between the legal commitments of member States to the 
safeguard agreements and the voluntary procedures for 
accession to the additional protocol, which is not based 
on  any  legal  foundation  and  which  seeks  to  impose 
further political pressure on my country.
Eighth,  we  have  a  question  for  the  countries  that 
have provided a cover-up for Israeli nuclear weapons, 
as well as for the Director General of the IAEA and for 
the Agency itself. What have they done to implement 
Security  Council  resolution  487  (1981),  which  has 
been on record for 30 years? Allow me to quote from 
paragraph  5  of  that  resolution,  in  which  the  Security 
Council called for
(spoke in English)
 “Israel urgently to place its nuclear facilities under 
the safeguards of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency”.
 (spoke in Arabic)
Ninth,  an  important  report  on  armament  and 
disarmament  and  international  security,  which  was 
issued by the Stockholm International Peace Research 
Institute, has devoted an entire chapter to what it calls 
Israeli nuclear “powers” — not “power”. I call on the 
Director  General  of  the  IAEA  to  read  that  chapter  in 
order to draw on the lessons learned and to immediately 
and  conclusively  deal  with  Israeli  nuclear  weapons, 
which  threaten  the  lives  of  the  peoples  and  States  of 
the region, in implementation of the resolutions of the 
Agency, along with those of the General Assembly and 
the Security Council.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on agenda item 87.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on 
draft  resolution  A/70/L.8,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution  and 
in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  on  the  draft 
document, 
the  following  countries  have  become 
sponsors  of  A/70/L.8:  Argentina,  Australia,  Belgium, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brunei Darussalam, Canada, 
Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Georgia, Germany, 
Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malaysia, 
Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Norway, 
the Philippines, Poland, Republic of Korea, Republic of 
Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Singapore, Slovenia, 
Spain, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, the United 
Arab  Emirates,  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain 
and Northern Ireland and the United States of America.
The Acting President: A recorded vote  has  been 
requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Algeria,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Australia,  Austria, 
Bahrain,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Bhutan,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, 
Cambodia, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, 
Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  Estonia, 
Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece, 
6/7 
15-37314
17/11/2015 
A/70/PV.56
Guatemala,  Honduras,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India, 
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, 
Israel,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan, 
Kuwait,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Liberia,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malaysia,  Mexico, 
Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco, 
Myanmar,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nigeria, 
Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Palau,  Panama,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of 
Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Rwanda, 
San  Marino,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Singapore, 
Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  Thailand,  Tunisia,  Turkey, 
Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United 
States of America, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Viet Nam
Abstaining:
Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of),  Chad,  Cuba, 
Nicaragua, Russian Federation, Sudan, Syrian Arab 
Republic, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela 
(Bolivarian Republic of), Zimbabwe
Draft resolution A/70/L.8 was adopted by 99 votes 
to none, with 10 abstentions (resolution 70/10).
[Subsequently,  the  delegation  of  Malta  informed 
the Secretariat that it had intened to vote in favour.]
The  Acting  President:  Before  giving  the  floor 
to  speakers  in  explanation  of  vote,  may  I  remind 
delegations that explanations of vote are limited to 10 
minutes and should be made by delegations from their 
seats.
Mr. Mohamed (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): I would 
like once again to express my deep condolences to the 
peoples, families and Governments that were targeted 
by  the  heinous  terrorist  attacks  in  France  and  the 
previous terrorist attacks in Egypt, Lebanon and Iraq.
In  recent  years,  my  country  has  been  part  of 
the  consensus  on  the  resolution  on  the  report  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency.  We  had 
hoped  that  today’s  resolution  would  avoid  making 
any  indirect  reference  to  political  matters  that  should 
not  be  addressed  here  but  that  properly  belong  in  the 
framework of bilateral interactions, especially between 
two countries with deep historical relations. I would like 
to note that the two countries concerned have friendly 
relations with my country. My delegation will continue 
to  support  all  of  the  paragraphs  of  the  resolution. 
Therefore, in accordance with our explanation of vote, 
our delegation decided to abstain in the voting on the 
resolution.
Mr. Zdorov (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): Belarus 
voted in favour of resolution 70/10, because it supports 
the  activities  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency and its annual report on the substance.
At the same time, we wish to express our concern 
about the fact that we were unable to reach consensus 
on the adoption of the resolution, which we could have 
done if we had taken into account the specific positions 
of  States  on  issues  important  to  them.  We  hope  that, 
in  the  future,  we  will  be  able  to  find  a  format  that 
will allow us to avoid such a situation and to focus on 
discussion of the mandated issues of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency.
Mrs.  Del  Sol  Dominguez  (Cuba)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish):  Allow  me  to  why  my  delegation  abstained 
in the voting on resolution 70/10, on the report of the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  for  2014.  Cuba 
abstained  because  my  country  laments  the  fact  that 
not  all  possible  efforts  were  exhausted  in  all  possible 
forums  to  accommodate  the  legitimate  concerns  of 
all  delegations  and  to  preserve  the  traditional  and 
important consensus on the resolution.
Mr.  Vallejos  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 
delegation  abstained  in  the  voting.  We  acknowledge, 
however, the importance of the work of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  and  its  valuable  cooperation 
with our countries. Nevertheless, we profoundly regret 
that  we  were  not  able  to  adopt  resolution  70/10  by 
consensus and that it was not possible to accommodate 
all delegations by taking their legitimate concerns into 
account.  We  hope  that  the  debate  on  this  issue  will 
continue  so  that  we  can  find  a  solution  and  arrive  at 
the consensus we need so badly on this as well as other 
important resolutions.
Our  delegation  appreciates 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency,  and  we  will 
continue to cooperate with the Agency.
the  work  of 
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of General Assembly to conclude its consideration 
of agenda item 87?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 3.55 p.m.
15-37314
7/7
