United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
35th plenary meeting
Friday, 16 October 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.35
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Zinsou (Benin), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda items 66 and 14 (continued)
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and 
international support
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/70/175 and 
A/70/176) 
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
Mr. Rattray (Jamaica): I have the honour to speak 
on  behalf  of  the  States  members  of  the  Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM) 
joint  debate 
on  the  agenda  items  entitled  “New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development: progress in implementation and 
international support” and “2001-2010 Decade to Roll 
Back Malaria in Developing Countries, Particularly in 
Africa”.
today’s 
in 
The  fraternal  ties  between  the  Caribbean  and 
Africa,  built  on  the  bonds  of  history  and  culture,  are 
further cemented by our common aspiration to achieve 
a destiny of our own design and to attain peace, security 
and sustainable development in our regions. CARICOM 
therefore reiterates its support for the African-led and 
African-owned approach to growth and socioeconomic 
development  that  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD) represents.
The  year  2015  is  a  landmark  year  for  global 
development and for the development of Africa. With 
the adoption of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda and the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1), the international community has taken important 
steps  to  advance  sustainable  development  globally. 
Those  efforts  will  hopefully  be  crowned  with  an 
ambitious  global  climate-change  agreement  in  Paris 
this  December.  It  is  therefore  fitting  that,  within  that 
context and during the time when the United Nations 
is observing the seventieth anniversary of its founding, 
Africa has articulated its own long-term strategic vision 
for  the  transformative  development  of  the  continent 
through its Agenda 2063.
CARICOM  is  heartened  by  major  development 
gains  in  Africa,  achieved  even  as  the  continent 
continues  to  grapple  with  significant  challenges  to 
peace and development. We have taken particular note 
of  the  progress  made  on  all  of  the  NEPAD  thematic 
priorities,  including  strengthening  the  financing  for 
and  implementation  of  major  infrastructure  projects, 
improving  regional  and  national  health  systems  to 
better respond to global pandemics, enhancing gender 
mainstreaming and working towards climate adaptation 
in agriculture and other sectors.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-32063 (E)
*1532063*
A/70/PV.35 
16/10/2015
In order to achieve further progress and to ensure 
that  Africa  fulfils  its  potential  as  a  dynamic  force  in 
the  international  arena,  the  continent  will,  however, 
need  to  take  steps  to  overcome  challenges  in  all  of 
the  NEPAD  priority  thematic  areas.  Moreover,  the 
international  community  and  the  United  Nations  will 
need  to  ensure  coherence  and  synergy  between  the 
global and continental development frameworks, so as 
to fully support their implementation in Africa.
Several  priorities  merit  consideration,  including 
consolidating  the  considerable  gains  made  by  Africa 
in promoting peace and stability; pursuing a strategic 
approach to combating diseases, especially HIV/AIDS 
and malaria, which continue to be a burden and a major 
challenge  to  Africa;  advancing  the  fight  to  eliminate 
the  Ebola  virus  completely;  and  undertaking  a  more 
long-term  and  integrated  approach  to  investment  by 
international  partners  that  will  have  a  more  desirable 
and  sustained  impact.  Today,  as  we  observe  World 
Food Day, we recall also the fight against hunger and 
the importance of promoting food security throughout 
Africa.
(A/70/175)  mentions, 
We  note  with  concern  that,  as  the  report  of  the 
despite 
Secretary-General 
extensive  efforts  to  mobilize  domestic  resources, 
inadequate financing remains a major challenge in all 
sectors. That issue must be addressed with urgency. While 
increased investment will be needed from all sources, 
it  will  be  important  that  the  international  community 
complement the continent’s efforts, including through 
additional  financial  support,  technical  assistance  and 
capacity-building.  We  therefore  urge  development 
partners to strengthen their efforts to meet their official 
development  assistance  (ODA)  commitments,  as  well 
as to enhance their ODA allocations to the continent, so 
as to aid in the implementation and achievement of the 
global  and  regional  development  agenda.  We  call  for 
a  reaffirmation  of  United  Nations  support  for  Africa, 
including  through  ongoing  efforts  to  strengthen  the 
efficacy of regional coordination mechanisms.
CARICOM  supports  Africa’s  quest  to  improve 
governance and accountability, which reflects our shared 
commitments in that regard. The increased subscription 
by  African  countries  to  the  processes  of  the  African 
Peer Review Mechanism is a testament to the efficacy 
of  that  instrument  in  promoting  good  governance  on 
the  continent.  We  also  share  Africa’s  commitment  to 
promoting  the  role  of  women  and  youth  in  securing 
durable  peace  and  socioeconomic  transformation.  In 
that  regard,  we  welcome  the  designation  of  2015  as 
the Year of Women’s Empowerment and Development 
towards the African Union Agenda 2063.
The  African  Economic  Outlook  2015  projects 
that  growth  in  Africa’s  gross  domestic  product  will 
strengthen to 4.5 per cent this year and reach 5 per cent in 
2016. Should those forecasts hold true, it will represent 
a resumption, after a number of years, of the impressive 
pre-crisis  levels  of  growth  that  Africa    had  achieved. 
That  development  bears  particular  consideration. 
From  one  perspective,  it  may  be  seen  through  the 
lens of the years of lost growth that impeded progress 
on  the  continent,  owing  largely  to  factors  beyond  its 
control. From another, it heralds, in important ways, the 
continued resilience of the continent. If the full promise 
of  Africa  is  to  be  realized  and  sustained,  determined 
and  cohesive  efforts  will  be  needed  on  the  part  of 
Africa, its development partners and the international 
community as a whole.
CARICOM hopes that the trend towards higher and 
sustained growth and development does indeed represent 
the dawning of a new day in Africa’s development. We 
reaffirm our commitment to collaborating with Africa 
in addressing the challenges to peace and development 
and  in  jointly  contributing  to  a  more  prosperous  and 
secure world. Our close interaction within the United 
Nations  has  facilitated  the  continued  renewal  of  the 
fraternal bonds between our peoples and regions.
That  collaboration  found  concrete  expression 
recently  in  the  engagement  between  CARICOM  and 
Africa,  along  with  other  partners,  which  resulted  in 
the erection of the Permanent Memorial to Honour the 
Victims of Slavery and the Transatlantic Slave Trade at 
the United Nations. The unveiling of the Ark of Return
at  the  United  Nations  was  only  the  latest  and  most 
cogent symbol of our unbreakable ties of friendship and 
solidarity. We look forward to strengthening those ties 
even further in the years ahead.
The Caribbean Community takes this opportunity 
to express our confidence in the prospects for Africa’s 
continued  progress.  Africa’s  renaissance  heralds  the 
promise  of  a  brighter  day,  not  only  for  the  people  of 
that great continent, but also for the people of the world 
as a whole. We renew our commitment to maintaining 
our  partnership  with  Africa  in  the  common  cause  of 
the sustainable development of our nations and peoples.
Mr. Mahmoud (Egypt): At the outset, allow me to 
thank the President for convening this timely debate. 
2/12 
15-32063
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.35
Egypt aligns itself with the statements made by the 
representative of South Africa on behalf of the Group 
of  77  and  China  and  by  the  representative  of  Sierra 
Leone on behalf of the African Group (see A/70/PV.34).
Egypt  welcomes  the  reports  prepared  by  the 
Secretary-General on the African issues under today’s 
agenda  items  (A/70/175  and  A/70/176).  I  would  like 
to  thank  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Office  of  the 
Special Adviser on Africa for preparing those reports 
and for the thoughtful conclusions they include. I also 
wish  to  extend  our  appreciation  to  His  Excellency 
Ambassador Maged Abdelaziz, the Special Adviser for 
Africa,  for  the  successful  organization  of  the  Africa 
Week 2015 events on the theme “Agenda 2063 and the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development:  Moving 
from Aspirations to Reality”.
for 
The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  represents  Africa’s  aspiration  to  take  its 
methods  into  its  own  hands,  as  it  serves  as  Africa’s 
instrument 
reducing  poverty  and  achieving 
sustainable  development.  NEPAD  translates  African 
priorities  into  specific  programmes  and  projects.  It 
thereby crystallizes Africa’s vision on specific thematic 
issues, namely, agriculture and food security, regional 
integration and infrastructure, human development, and 
information and communication technologies. NEPAD 
has received additional impetus, as it has become the 
vehicle  for  the  implementation  of  the  African  Union 
Agenda  2063,  Africa’s  vision  for  regional  integration 
and  an  African  renaissance.  As  a  proud  founding 
member,  Egypt  continues  to  support  the  work  of 
NEPAD in various programmes and thematic activities 
and  calls  for  increasing  international  support  for  the 
implementation of the NEPAD agenda.
A number of the issues raised under today’s agenda 
items coincide with those raised in the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) and the Addis 
Ababa  Action  Agenda  on  financing  for  development. 
It  is  important  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  the 
implementation  of 
the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  and  the  fulfilment  of  the  commitments  made 
towards  Africa  in  the  new  2030  Agenda.  No  global 
development  agenda  can  ever  succeed  if  it  does  not 
tackle  the  African  priorities  of  increasing  economic 
output,  creating  jobs  and  eradicating  poverty  through 
increased 
and 
agricultural  development.  African  development  needs 
significant and diverse financial resources, technology 
transfers  and  capacity-building.  Official  development 
industrialization, 
infrastructure 
assistance  should  continue  to  constitute  the  backbone 
of  financing  for  development.  Furthermore,  Africa 
needs  the  support  of  the  international  community  for 
the recovery of illegally transferred assets.
The 
international  community  has  achieved 
significant  progress  in  the  elimination  of  malaria  in 
developing countries, especially in Africa, with nearly 
half of the affected countries now free of the disease. The 
international community has to ensure that this success 
is  maintained  by  guaranteeing  ongoing  technical  and 
financial  support  for  malaria  programmes  in  African 
countries, thereby improving access to prevention and 
treatment.
Efforts  to  achieve  sustainable  development  and 
growth  are  bound  to  fail  unless  coupled  with  serious 
efforts  to  create,  maintain  and  build  peace.  In  that 
regard, we welcome the report of the Secretary-General 
entitled  “Causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of 
durable peace and sustainable development in Africa” 
(A/70/176).  We  also  highlight  Africa’s  initiative  to 
achieve a conflict-free Africa, as outlined in the Fiftieth 
Anniversary Solemn Declaration of the Organization of 
African Unity-African Union, of 2013. The initiative is 
complemented by the work of the African Peer Review 
Mechanism,  which  manifests  Africa’s  commitment  to 
enhance good governance and respect for human rights 
and democratic values. There is also an urgent need for 
collaboration and the scaling up of efforts to ensure the 
coherence of strategies aimed at facing the challenges 
relating  to  terrorism,  which  threaten  the  development 
and economic achievements of our continent.
It  is  important  to  emphasis  as  well  the  need  to 
sustain and consolidate the support provided to Africa 
by the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa as the 
leading entity dedicated to advancing African issues in 
the United Nations system. 
Allow  me  to  conclude  by  reiterating  Egypt’s 
ongoing commitment to the welfare, peace and security 
of Africa during its membership in the Security Council 
for the period of 2016-2017.
Mrs.  Byaje  (Rwanda):  At  the  outset,  let  me 
congratulate the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa, 
the  African  Union  Commission,  the  United  Nations 
Economic  Commission  for  Africa,  the  African  Peer 
Review Mechanism, the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  the  African  Development 
Bank  for  a  successful  Africa  Week  2015.  Also  allow 
me  to  welcome  all  the  high-level  representatives  of 
15-32063
3/12
A/70/PV.35 
16/10/2015
the  African  regional  economic  communities  and  to 
commend them for their invaluable contributions.
We  also  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
reports  provided  on  Africa’s  progress  (A/70/175  and 
A/70/176).  Rwanda  endorses  the  statements  delivered 
by the representative of South Africa on behalf of the 
Group  of  77  and  China  and  by  the  representative  of 
Sierra Leone on behalf of the Group of African States 
(see A/70/PV.34).
As  we  celebrate 
the  seventieth  anniversary 
of  the  United  Nations,  allow  me  to  join  others  in 
congratulating the President of the General Assembly 
on  the  theme  chosen  to  set  the  stage  for  the  new 
development agenda, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1).  This  landmark  year 
is  indeed  special,  as  it  occurs  at  a  crossroads:  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) era is ending 
at the prelude to the newly adopted 2030 Agenda, which 
has the power to transform our lives in an unprecedented 
manner. Coupled with that bold and ambitious Agenda 
is our own African Union Agenda 2063, which outlines 
our  priorities  to  achieve  the  Africa  we  want  in  order 
to  move  from  aspirations  to  reality.  At  the  onset,  we 
can note with satisfaction that most of our key African 
priorities  have  been  taken  on  board  in  the  new  2030 
Agenda of the United Nations, making it easier for us 
to hit two targets with one shot. The next step will be to 
merge the two agendas in our development plans.
Despite the ongoing effects of the global financial 
and  economic  crises  and  the  conflicts  still  raging  on 
our continent — with their corollary of new threats in 
the form of terrorism and extremism, which remind us 
that  we  are  still  navigating  in  troubled  waters  —  we 
have  reason  to  have  hope  for  the  future.  Indeed,  the 
lessons  learned  from  hardship  have  enabled  us  to 
emerge more resilient and equipped with new tools to 
confront adversity. Consequently, we remain confident 
that  the  new  2030  Agenda  will  give  us  an  impetus 
to  believe  in  the  readiness  of  Africa  to  embark  on  a 
positive trajectory and to continue to register sustained 
growth.
It is a known fact that our economies are undergoing 
rapid  transformation.  More  and  more  countries  have 
managed to sustain their growth at more than 5 per cent 
of  their  gross  domestic  product,  and  as  we  urbanize, 
burgeoning  industries  and  service  sectors  are  leading 
to the creation of more off-farm jobs. While the worst 
enemy  that  we  are  still  confronted  with  is  chronic 
poverty,  we  see,  when  we  delve  into  statistics,  that 
more  and  more  people  are  being  lifted  from  poverty. 
In Rwanda alone, on top of having more than a million 
lifted out of poverty in a five-year time span, the latest 
figures show that more than 660,000 have followed the 
same path during the past three years. Those numbers 
bode well for the future, which prompts policymakers 
to  look  at  the  entire  ecosystem  so  as  to  nurture  it  to 
open doors to a myriad of possibilities.
Let  me  now  briefly  discuss  four 
issues  of 
importance  to  my  country,  where  we  see  the  need 
for  better  synergies  for  the  implementation  of  both 
landmark outcomes.
First  is  the  unfinished  business  of  the  MDGs. 
We  take  this  opportunity  to  recognize  the  important 
milestone that the MDGs have achieved for many of the 
developing countries, especially in Africa. Rwanda is  
on course to meet all eight Goals, and on some, we have 
even exceeded the targets.
Secondly, 
the  nexus  between  peace,  security 
and  development  is  a  fundamental  issue  reflecting 
the  realities  that  many  countries  face,  since  the 
complementarity  of  peace  and  development  makes 
them  two  sides  of  the  same  coin.  Rwanda,  as  would 
any  other  post-conflict  country,  faced  considerable 
difficulties in dealing with the aftermath of the genocide 
against the Tutsi, which claimed 1 million lives, and in 
establishing a climate of peace and security for all, as 
well  as  in  rebuilding  inclusive  governance  structures 
and promoting economic and social development. That 
experience  taught  us  that  inclusive  decision-making 
has  not  only  strengthened  our  governance  structures, 
it has been essential in enabling us to become one of 
the  fastest-growing  economies  on  the  continent.  That 
points to a growing need for integrated approaches that 
promote peace, security and economic development.
Concerning  the  partnership  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  African  Union  (AU),  we  believe  that 
increasing  the  capacity  to  streamline  and  implement 
cooperation  with  the  African  Union  and  its  regional 
economic  communities  will  help  both  organizations 
in  their  conflict-prevention  efforts,  not  only  through 
long-term structural measures but also in their ability 
to recognize and defuse signs of impending or potential 
conflict.
Thirdly,  an 
in  moving  from 
conceiving  and  adopting  aspirations 
to  making 
them  a  reality  is  to  incorporate  the  gender  and  youth 
important  step 
4/12 
15-32063
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.35
reaffirming 
components.  The  African  Union  has  declared  2015 
the Year of Women’s Empowerment and Development 
towards  Africa’s  Agenda  2063, 
the 
important role that women and girls will play in driving 
that Agenda. In most AU member States, women make 
up more than 50 per cent of the population. It will be 
impossible  to  achieve  the  2030  Agenda  and  the  AU 
Agenda  2063  with  its  First  Ten-Year  Implementation 
Plan if nations choose not to include more than half of 
their populations.
My fourth and last point is about creating jobs for 
young people, who in some countries make up more than 
70 per cent of the population. Young Africans will play 
an extremely important role in transforming Africa in 
the social, economic and cultural spheres. Investments 
are  needed  in  education,  employment,  empowerment 
and effective civic participation.
We should therefore make it a priority to consider 
the measures that should be taken going forward so as to 
ensure sustainable development and economic growth 
and guarantee peaceful, harmonious and secure living. 
In that regard, my country has taken strong measures to 
transform job seekers into job creators. 
First,  to  boost  job  creation  Rwanda  has  lowered 
significant  barriers  to  employment  by  investing  in 
quality  education  and  vocational  technical  education, 
and  has  created  a  mass  mentoring  platform  to  coachi 
trainees, thus enabling job seekers to gain the experience 
they need.
Secondly, we have made it easier for entrepreneurs 
to  enter  the  job  market,  affording  them  an  adequate 
support  system  that  includes  appropriate  financial 
products and access to financing, business development 
services, access to markets, and a regulatory framework 
that  makes  things  easier  for  start-ups.  Decentralizing 
such  services  has  been  instrumental  in  attaining 
tangible results, and we thank the African Development 
Bank for contributing to that venture.
Thirdly,  by  investing  massively  in  research  and 
development  and  supportting  access  to  technologies, 
Rwanda has fostered creativity and innovation. 
Fourthly,  investing  in  infrastructure  development 
and energy generation has led to job creation on a huge 
scale. 
Regional  integration  has  greatly  helped  to  boost 
our  trade  and  will  definitely  enable  us  to  align  our 
development plans with Agenda 2063 and its First Ten-
Year Implementation Plan.
Finally,  to  bring  about  the  changes  necessary  for 
Africa to thrive, Governments, donors and the private 
sector are invited to walk the talk by providing adequate 
means  to  ensure  that  actions  are  being  properly 
implemented.  In  addition,  all  official  development 
assistance  commitments  should  be  honoured  so  as  to 
complement domestic resource mobilization.
In closing, I would like to reiterate that the future 
of  Africa  is  in  our  hands.  It  is  therefore  high  time  to 
join hands in shaping that future, so that it can support 
the lives of future generations. In our global quest for 
poverty eradication, let us rally behind that motto, seize 
this momentum and go on to thrive together.
Mr.  Abdrakhmanov 
(Kazakhstan):  Today’s 
meeting highlights Africa’s significance as an emerging 
continent.  The  African  Union  Agenda  2063,  aimed  at 
the  region’s  transformation  and  renaissance,  and  its 
First  Ten-Year  Implementation  Plan,  are  both  are  all-
encompassing and focus on almost every aspect of the 
region’s  advancement.  They  call  for  mutual  synergy 
with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development of 
the United Nations (resolution 70/1).
In  the  light  of  this  historically  new  context, 
Kazakhstan calls for strengthening the African Union’s 
structures and instruments, such as the New Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and  the  African 
Governance  Architecture,  which  includes  the  African 
Peer Review Mechanism, the African Court on Human 
and  Peoples’  Rights  and  the  Pan-African  Parliament, 
together  with 
the  continent’s  regional  economic 
communities. That will require close coordination with 
the United Nations framework for Africa in conjunction 
with regional structures and State institutions. Within 
that  framework,  every  Member  State  has  a  role  to 
play.  Kazakhstan  has  therefore  been  deepening  its 
commitment to Africa for the past several years.
As Chair of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation 
in 2012, we worked on some of Africa’s most pressing 
issues, such as the political transition in North Africa, 
the  crises  in  the  Sahel  and  Somalia,  organized  crime 
and  threats  of  terrorism,  and  the  problems  of  food, 
water and energy security.
Kazakhstan  has  moved  from  being  a  regular 
recipient  of  aid  to  becoming  a  donor  country,  and 
takes  its  responsibilities  seriously.  We  have  given 
15-32063
5/12
A/70/PV.35 
16/10/2015
substantial  humanitarian  aid  to  the  Central  African 
Republic  and  Somalia.  During  the  Ebola  outbreak  in 
2014, we quickly allocated funds to the United Nations 
Ebola  Response  Multi-Partner  Trust  Fund  and  to  the 
African  Union’s  fund.  We  are  now  establishing  our 
own  overseas  development  agency,  KazAid,  which 
will focus on both financial assistance and knowledge 
transfer,  since  Kazakhstan  believes  in  learning  from 
African countries, too,
largest 
the  world’s 
Peace,  development  and  stability  in  Africa  are  a 
growing  priority  for  our  foreign  policy.  We  intend  to 
be  increasingly  involved  in  peacekeeping  operations, 
and Kazakh military observers are currently serving in 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  in  Africa.  We 
will invest in development in order to reduce conflicts, 
and  we  will  work  to  strengthen  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  and  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office. 
If  we  are  to  overcome  the  current  grave  crises  in  the 
Middle East and Africa, we must address those issues 
jointly.
As 
landlocked  country, 
Kazakhstan is sensitive to the plight of geographically 
disadvantaged  States  and  will  work  with  other 
development  partners  to  help  address  the  shared 
challenges of landlocked developing countries in Africa. 
In  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  (UNDP),  we  have  created  opportunities 
for  African  experts  to  study  at  leading  educational 
institutions in Kazakhstan in the fields of the oil and gas 
industry and agriculture. Kazakhstan recently signed a 
third-party cost-sharing agreement with UNDP aimed 
at implementing an Africa-Kazakhstan partnership for 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  thereby  further 
strengthening our commitment to Africa’s development.
Like  all  other  regions,  Africa  is  threatened  by 
climate change and energy insecurity, and it can take 
advantage  of  Kazakhstan’s  Green  Bridge  partnership 
programme, which focuses on sustainable growth and 
promoting  the  best  green  technologies  and  practices. 
Energy will also determine our collective security, and 
we are looking forward to a major African contribution 
to Expo 2017, which is to be held in Astana on the theme 
of  “Future  Energy”,  showcasing  innovations  in  the 
global energy industry. That will be our contribution to 
the Sustainable Energy for All initiative of the United 
Nations. In that regard, Kazakhstan hosted the African 
Future Energy Seminar in Astana this past July to share 
our expertise. Following the Expo 2017 event, we will 
propose the establishment, in Astana, of an international 
centre  for  the  development  of  green  technologies  and 
investment  projects,  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations. The centre will serve to facilitate technology 
development and transfer to developing countries.
The  2015  Astana  Economic  Forum’s  special 
session,  entitled  “Africa  as  the  Next  Driver  of  the 
Global Economy”, brought African and Kazakh experts 
together.  The  World  Anti-Crisis  Plan,  formulated 
during the Astana Economic Forum, will have pointers 
for Africa. In that regard, our financial architecture will 
have to be reconsidered so as better to meet the criteria 
of  justice,  democracy,  competitiveness,  effectiveness 
and international control.
to  African 
We  call  for  the  completion  of  the  Doha  Round  of 
world  trade  negotiations  so  as  to  give  a  significant 
boost 
trade  and  accelerate  structural 
reforms.  As  economic  power  and  political  influence 
are  moving  southwards  and  eastwards,  South-South 
and triangular cooperation, which complement North-
South  cooperation,  are  becoming  an  important  tool 
for  capacity-building,  the  design  of  policies  and  the 
delivery of programmes.
We  welcome  the  progress  achieved  in  Africa  in 
enhancing gender equality and women’s empowerment 
on  the  continent.  The  promotion  of  equal  rights  of 
men and women to education and decent work is also 
critically  important  for  long-term  development.  The 
international  community  should  consider  supporting 
African women and girls by targeting programmes in 
financing,  technology  transfer  and  capacity-building, 
among  others,  in  accordance  with  the  post-2015 
development agenda.
addressed 
When  President  Nazarbayev 
the 
United  Nations  Sustainable  Development  Summit 
2015 (see A/70/PV.10) and the General Assembly (see 
A/70/PV.13), he outlined some very thought-provoking 
proposals that could serve as additional reinforcement 
points in achieving long-term security and sustainable 
development in Africa. We need to shift our focus from 
routine conflict prevention and post-conflict recovery 
to a new development strategy that would do much to 
eliminate the threat of war.
Since  my  President’s  address  at  the  General 
Assembly  has  full  relevance  for  Africa,  I  would  like 
to  refer  to  his  proposal  that  the  task  of  the  twenty-
first  century  is  to  implement  a  strategy  that  would 
eliminate the threat of war and its causes permanently. 
For  that  purpose,  President  Nazarbayev  suggested 
6/12 
15-32063
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.35
that  for  the  centenary  of  the  United  Nations,  a  2045 
global  strategic  initiative  plan  should  be  agreed  to. 
Its core idea would be to launch a new trend in global 
development based on fair conditions, where all nations 
would  have  equal  access  to  the  global  infrastructure, 
resources and markets, as well as the ability to maintain 
a comprehensive system of accountability with regard 
to human development. 
To  achieve  substantive  results,  we  would  need  to 
transform  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  into  the 
Global Development Council, in close coordination with 
the United Nations system, the International Monetary 
Fund and other multilateral agencies. It would serve as 
a  global  economic  regulator,  with  worldwide  projects 
but with Africa as its priority area. The proposal that 
all Member States should allocate one percent of their 
military spending to a special sund for the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  is  another  initiative  that  is  also 
relevant to today’s topic.
We applaud the fact that the entire African region 
has  become,  under  the  Pelindaba  Treaty,  a  nuclear-
weapon-free-zone.  Kazakhstan,  with  its  own  Central 
Asian  Nuclear-Weapon-Free-Zone,  has  experiences  to 
share. We can thereby reinforce our mutual efforts for 
nuclear security.
As  a  candidate  for  a  non-permanent  seat  on  the 
Security Council for the term of 2017-2018, Kazakhstan 
is committed to focusing on nuclear, food, energy and 
water  security,  which  are  critical  for  achieving  long-
term  sustainable  development  in  Africa.  Kazakhstan 
expresses  its  readiness,  if  elected,  to  promote  the 
genuine interests of our African partners in the Security 
Council. 
Partnership  and  cooperation  among  nations  are  a 
must.  Only  in  that  way  can  we  protect  our  common 
security and advance our common humanity. Kazakhstan 
is  totally  committed  to  Africa’s  advancement,  both 
through regional efforts and through efforts reinforced 
by a broader multilateralism.
Mr. Pedersen (Norway): There are many reasons 
to  be  optimistic  about 
the  African  continent’s 
future.  Great  progress  has  been  made  in  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  including  in 
education  and  maternal  and  child  health.  Democracy, 
good governance and the rule of law are gaining ground 
on  the  continent,  and  some  of  the  fastest-growing 
economies in the world are in Africa.
While  significant  achievements  have  been  made, 
some  fundamental  challenges  still  remain.  Falling 
commodity  prices  and  more  difficult 
financial 
investment  have  slowed  expected 
conditions  for 
average growth in Africa to its lowest level since 2009, 
according  to  the  International  Monetary  Fund.  Many 
countries  are  highly  vulnerable  to  external  shocks, 
the  effects  of  climate  change  and  environmental 
degradation.  We  agree  with  African  States  that  some 
of the key measures to be taken include strengthening 
national revenue mobilization, curbing illicit financial 
flows and investing in infrastructure.
the  vast  majority  of 
Economic  growth  has  not  created  enough  jobs, 
nor has it significantly increased income opportunities 
for 
the  poor,  particularly 
minorities, women and youth. Inequality, poverty and 
unemployment  are  potential  causes  of  social  unrest, 
conflict  and  migration.  Growth  must  be  inclusive. 
Poverty  eradication  and  sustainable  development  are 
inextricably  linked  with  women’s  and  girls’  rights 
and  gender  equality.  Empowering  women  and  girls 
increases  productivity  and  has  a  positive  impact  on 
nutrition, health and education. Norway remains deeply 
committed to supporting Africa’s fight against poverty 
through investments, trade, capacity-building and aid.
Peace,  security  and  sustainable  development 
are  closely  interlinked.  Common  denominators  of 
protracted  conflicts  include  weak  State  institutions, 
lack  of  basic  services,  militarization  of  societies, 
and  social  and  economic  exclusion.  Often,  fragility 
and  insecurity  are  fuelled  by  transnational  organized 
crime,  piracy  and  terrorism.  One  consequence  is  the 
refugee flows and migration we are witnessing, and, as 
we all know, no quick fixes exist. Stronger cooperation 
between Africa and Europe is needed, among the States 
of origin and transit and the receiving States. We must 
work  together  to  solve  conflicts,  end  fighting  and 
increase efforts for sustainable development.
The  Secretary-General  makes  a  strong  case  for 
the  importance  of  a  holistic  approach  that  addresses 
security,  development  and  human 
rights.  More 
emphasis must also be placed on prevention of conflict. 
The  African  Union’s  transformative  50-year  Agenda 
2063 is an example of such an approach and provides 
the  framework  for  an  inclusive  and  people-centred 
development in Africa.
I  commend  the  African  Union  Summit  on  the 
decision to make 2016 the Year of Human Rights with 
15-32063
7/12
A/70/PV.35 
16/10/2015
Special  Focus  on  the  Rights  of  Women,  a  theme  that 
resonates  with  the  emphasis  on  national  ownership 
and  leadership  in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  the  Addis  Ababa 
Action Agenda and provides a platform giving a voice 
to all segments of society. At the same time, many of 
those  challenges  are  transnational  in  their  nature  and 
require concerted efforts, not just from the region but 
from  the  international  community  as  a  whole.  The 
increasingly  strong  collaboration  between  the  United 
Nations system and the African Union is a case in point.
Norway and the African Union Commission signed 
a memorandum of understanding in January this year. 
We agreed to strengthen our collaboration in the areas 
of peace and security, democracy and governance, and 
sustainable development and job creation. That strategic 
partnership  reflects  both  the  strong  historical  ties 
between  Africa  and  Norway  and  our  joint  aspirations 
for  the  future.  The  visions  and  objectives  outlined  in 
Agenda 2063 mirror our own.
(Zambia): 
I  appreciate 
Mr.  Chinyonga 
this 
opportunity  to  contribute  to  this  joint  debate.  My 
delegation aligns itself with the statements delivered by 
the representative of South Africa on behalf of the Group 
of  77  and  China  and  by  the  representative  of  Sierra 
Leone  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States  (see 
A/70/PV.34). I also commend the Secretary-General for 
the two comprehensive reports on the New Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD):  the  thirteenth 
consolidated  progress  report  on  implementation  and 
international  support  (A/70/175)  and  on  the  causes 
of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development in Africa (A/70/176).
My  delegation  takes  note  of  the  considerable 
progress  that  has  been  made  in  Africa’s  development 
agenda,  in  particular  through  the  NEPAD  continental 
framework  and  the  strategic  approach  in  the  key 
development issues and programmes in such fields as 
agriculture,  infrastructure  and  health-care  systems. 
One  cannot  overemphasize  the  success  factors  and 
experiences  with  the  NEPAD  frameworks,  including 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme 
for 
Infrastructure  Development  in  Africa  as  instruments 
for strengthening capacity to follow up on the progress 
and performance of regional, subregional and national 
programmes.
the  Programme 
(CAADP)  and 
Zambia, like many African countries, has benefited 
from  the  support  and  implementation  of  the  NEPAD 
programmes. For instance, it signed its CAADP compact 
and endorsed its national agriculture and food security 
investment  plan  in  January  2011.  Since  then  Zambia 
has  developed  its  national  agriculture  investment 
programme, which provides a full package of incentives 
in  the  agricultural  sector.  Farmer  organizations,  the 
private sector and active partnerships are collaborating 
in the programme’s implementation, with support from 
cooperating  partners.  Zambia  is  also  implementing  a 
policy on conservation agriculture involving thousands 
of  households,  which  has  had  a  marked  impact  on 
resilience, food security and increased food production 
in a number of areas.
With  regard  to  agenda  item  14,  entitled  “2001-2010: 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
Particularly  in  Africa”,  I  wish  to  state  that  malaria 
remains  a  major  health  concern  in  Zambia.  It  also 
disproportionately  affects  children  under  5  years, 
pregnant  women  and  the  vulnerable  and  the  poor  in 
society.  Malaria  imposes  a  severe  socioeconomic 
burden on individuals, households and the communities 
at large.
We  strongly  believe  that  a  malaria-free  Zambia 
is  possible.  Policy  and  legal  frameworks  have  been 
put  in  place  to  ensure  that  no  barriers  exist  to  the 
implementation  of  interventions  aimed  at  eliminating 
malaria. The Government has articulated that resolve in 
major national development policy documents, notably 
in  the  national  health  policy  and  more  specifically  in 
the  National  Strategic  Plan  for  Malaria.  At  present, 
the  main  prevention  interventions  include  indoor 
residual  spraying  and  long-lasting  insecticide-treated 
nets. Curative intervention is enshrined in prompt and 
effective case management. 
In  addition,  Zambia  has  continued  to  implement 
three  steps  towards  malaria  eliminatio:  improving 
surveillance  and 
the  health-facility 
level,  implementing  mass  screening  and  treatment 
campaigns, and using an active case-detection system 
for community-level surveillance.
reporting  at 
I  am  therefore  glad  to  report  that  Zambia  has 
reported  declines  in  malaria  case-fatality  rates.  For 
example, the case-fatality rate for the age group aged 
5  years  and  above  was  reduced  from  31  per  1,000 
admissions in 2012 to 18 per 1,000 admissions in 2013. 
That could be attributed to good practices in our joint 
8/12 
15-32063
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.35
action with the global community. Despite that positive 
trend  in  our  fight  against  malaria,  the  country  still 
faces  some  challenges,  such  as  delays  in  timely  and 
effective  deployment  of  some  key  malaria-prevention 
interventions owing to financial constraints, which may 
in turn lead to the late procurement and distribution of 
the required commodities.
To accelerate progress, Zambia has strategized and 
focused on improving surveillance as an intervention in 
tandem with strengthening all other key interventions. 
We  hope  to  increase  our  access  to  potential  victims 
through the use of community structures, by ensuring 
the availability of all required items and also through 
continued  monitoring  and  evaluation.  Community 
health  workers  are  critical  in  ensuring  access  to 
health  care  and  in  providing  holistic  and  integrated 
including  malaria  and 
management  of  diseases, 
pneumonia.  The  response  further 
involves  using 
community  leaders  and  opinion-makers  in  malaria-
control  activities  and  programmes.  These  measures 
have  led  to  the  establishment  of  strong  institutional 
structures  by  the  Government  and  its  cooperating 
partners.  In  our  continuous  effort  to  reduce  the  cost 
of  anti-malarial  drugs,  we  plan  to  continue  forging 
partnerships in the manufacturing of antimalarial drugs 
and insecticide-treated nets locally.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  underscore  that  the 
scaling  up  of  integrated  packages  of  cost-effective 
malaria  interventions  yields  positive  outcomes.  We 
need  to  enhance  collaboration  with  the  international 
community in our efforts to eradicate malaria globally.
Mr.  Eler  (Turkey):  At  the  outset,  let  me  express 
our appreciation for the organization of this important 
meeting,  and  we  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
valuable  reports  (A/70/PV/175  and  A/70/176).  We  are 
happy  to  see  the  increased  interest  in  Africa  at  the 
United Nations. 
Despite the tremendous challenges, institutional and 
social progress in Africa’s development is continuing. 
We have heard a number of success stories coming out 
of  Africa.  They  give  hope  for  a  better  future  for  the 
continent,  and  there  is  greater  African  ownership  in 
African matters.
In that process, Turkey will continue to stand with 
Africa.  Today,  we  are  politically  more  engaged  and 
economically better connected with Africa, and we have 
proven ourselves to be a reliable development partner. 
In 2008, the African Union declared Turkey a strategic 
partner.  The  first  Turkey-Africa  Cooperation  Summit 
was  held  strong  institutional  structures  in  Istanbul  in 
August  2008,  with  the  high-level  participation  of  49 
African countries. That Summit initiated a steady and 
sustainable  cooperation  process.  The  Second  Turkey-
Africa Partnership Summit was organized in November 
2014  in  Malabo,  Equatorial  Guinea,  under  the  theme, 
“A New Model of Partnership for the Strengthening of 
Sustainable Development and Integration”. The Summit 
adopted a declaration and a joint implementation plan 
for the 2015-2019 period.
Turkey is not an outsider to the continent. We have 
engaged  with  many  local  administrations  in  many 
parts of Africa ,from the north to the Horn of Africa, 
to  East  Africa  and  to  the  Sahel  region.  In  Africa  we 
have expanded our diplomatic missions to 39, and the 
number of African embassies in Ankara is now 32. That 
is a strong manifestation of Turkey’s and our African 
partners’ commitment to developing relations further. In 
realizing that, Turkish Airlines, with its 44 destinations 
in 28 African countries, acts as an important enabler in 
connecting people.
The year 2015 is a critical time for global action. 
It  is  particularly  important  that  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  build  on 
the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  and  address  the  unfinished  business.  The  2030 
Agenda recognizes what we have been witnessing for 
years, namely, that sustainable development cannot be 
achieved without peace and security and that peace and 
security will be at risk without sustainable development. 
The  African  Union  Agenda  2063  shares  the  same 
vision — peace and security are intertwined with one 
another.  Yet  the  demographic  changes  in  Africa  also 
show that the empowerment of youth and women will 
have a special role to play in achieving the development 
goals that can ensure peace and security.
Turkey  holds  the  presidency  of  the  Group  of  20 
(G-20)  in  2015.  We  have  been  making  every  effort  to 
strengthen dialogue and action between the G-20 and 
Africa.  In  that  connection,  we  hosted  a  meeting  on 
energy  access  in  sub-Saharan  Africa  on  1  October 
in  Istanbul,  with  the  participation  of  the  ministers  of 
energy from both the African and the G-20 countries.
In the face of crises and disasters, Turkey’s approach 
to  Africa  is  based  on  a  combination  of  humanitarian 
and  development  assistance.  That  approach  ensures 
that  we  offer  much-needed  assistance  and  protection 
15-32063
9/12
A/70/PV.35 
16/10/2015
in  the  event  of  complex  emergencies.  It  also  aims  to 
support capacity- and institution-building in all areas. 
Of course, we are aware that that should be done with 
the use of local resources and knowledge. 
to 
assistance 
The  Turkish 
International  Cooperation  and 
Coordination Agency currently operates 15 programme 
coordination  offices  in  Africa,  with  total  Turkish 
development 
sub-Saharan  Africa 
amounting  to  $193  million  in  2013,  according  to 
the  databases  of  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development.  The  most  concrete 
examples  of  that  approach  can  be  seen  in  Somalia, 
where we support capacity-building to help the federal 
Government  to  achieve  greater  self-sufficiency  in  the 
social  and  economic  realms.  To  showcase  Somalia’s 
achievements  and  garner  further  support,  we  will 
host the next ministerial high-level partners forum on 
Somalia in early 2016.
We  are  determined 
to  pursue  humanitarian 
diplomacy as one of the key activities of Turkish foreign 
policy. We will continue to stay in close contact with 
our  partners  in  Africa  in  the  lead-up  to  the  first-ever 
World Humanitarian Summit, to be held in May 2016 in 
Istanbul. We call on all States to be represented at the 
highest level. Turkey defines itself as an Afro-Eurasian 
country and is committed to a strong engagement and 
genuine  partnership  with  Africa,  which  will  continue 
unabated in the future.
Mr.  Abdullahi  (Nigeria):  Nigeria  wishes 
to 
align  itself  with  the  statement  made  earlier  by  the 
representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of the Group 
of African States (see A/70/PV.34).
The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD) remains the embodiment of Africa’s aspiration 
for  the  inclusive  growth  and  sustainable  development 
of  the  African  continent.  From  its  inception  in  2001, 
NEPAD  has  spearheaded  the  policy  engineering  of 
the  development  dimension  in  Africa  through  the 
effective  facilitation,  planning  and  coordination  of 
priority  regional  programmes  and  projects.  Nigeria 
salutes  the  vision  of  progressive  African  leaders  in 
establishing  NEPAD,  which  has  now  become  the 
leading  implementation  actor  in  Africa’s  renaissance 
under the auspices of the African Union (AU).
The  African  vision  for  sustainable  development 
is  largely  premised  on  durable  peace  and  security. 
The  realization  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development 
the 
(resolution 
through 
70/1) 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals 
is critical to the continent’s transformation. We therefore 
reiterate  the  overriding  need  for  the  international 
community  to  continue  to  pay  due  attention  to  the 
nexus  between  peace  and  security  and  development. 
Nigeria believes that efforts at the subregional, regional 
and international levels should be intensified to support 
and advance national efforts in conflict prevention and 
management  as  prerequisites  for  durable  peace  and 
sustainable development.
As 
the  world  becomes  more  complex  and 
interconnected, so do the security challenges we face. 
Violent  extremism  knows  no  bounds  and  respects  no 
culture, not even the sacred culture of religion. We have 
seen that clearly in various parts of the globe — in Asia, 
in Africa, in Europe and in the Americas. At home in 
Nigeria,  we  are  facing  the  challenge  of  terrorism  and 
insurgency from a faceless group, Boko Haram, that has 
caused untold hardship and destruction in the northern 
part of the country. Indeed, the consequences of violent 
extremism are usually horrific.
We must therefore join hands to counter and defeat 
those perpetrators of crimes against humanity in all their 
ramifications.  Regional  peace  and  security  structures 
must be strengthened at the African Union and United 
Nations levels, so as to respond in a timely manner to 
those systemic human rights abuses and violations. As 
obligated by its own Charter, the United Nations should 
expeditiously address any threats to peace and security 
in  Africa  and  should  implement  all  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions in order to forestall the outbreak of 
conflict and, where appropriate, respond to conflicts in 
order to prevent massive loss of life and the dislocation 
of communal activities.
Nigeria has always emphasized regional initiatives 
to address conflict in Africa. We collaborate with four 
member  States  of  the  Lake  Chad  Basin  Commission, 
together  with  the  Republic  of  Benin,  to  address  the 
security  situation  and  terrorism  in  our  subregion.  We 
strongly believe that a multidimensional, multinational 
approach  will  lead  us  to  effectively  surmount  the 
transborder security challenges.
Importantly,  Africa  has  set 
its  sight  on  an 
endogenous 50-year plan in the form of Agenda 2063, 
adopted  by  the  African  Union  Assembly  of  Heads  of 
State and Government in January 2015. The adoption of 
the Agenda presents a landmark opportunity to address 
Africa’s priorities on a long-term basis in the areas of 
10/12 
15-32063
16/10/2015 
A/70/PV.35
infrastructure,  industrialization,  agriculture,  human-
capital  development,  and  peace  and  security.  We  are 
excited that NEPAD, as the implementing agency of the 
African Union, is pivotal to the implementation of the 
AU Agenda 2063. That plan will serve to stimulate the 
various continental policy frameworks and programmes 
championed by NEPAD at the regional and continental 
levels.
forward 
to 
in  particular 
looks 
implementation  of 
the 
Nigeria 
accelerated 
the  Comprehensive 
Africa  Agriculture  Development  Programme  and  the 
Programme for Infrastructure Development in Africa. 
Indeed,  the  growth  potential  of  Africa’s  agriculture 
and  infrastructure  sectors  will  help  to  transform  the 
continent’s food security and development landscape. 
We further commend the invaluable work that the 
NEPAD  Agency  has  been  doing  since  its  integration 
into the structures and processes of the African Union 
in promoting the mobilization of domestic resources for 
development, climate-smart agriculture and gender, as 
well as curtailing illicit financial flows from Africa and 
promoting capacity-building for tax administration.
We  urge  the  United  Nations  to  continue  to 
collaborate  with  NEPAD  and  the  regional  economic 
communities  so  as  to  achieve  effective  development 
on  the  continent.  We  likewise  commend  NEPAD  for 
its  initiative  to  promote  good  governance  in  Africa. 
The African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM), which 
African  leaders  established  in  2003,  is  a  unique  self-
monitoring  tool  that  should  be  fully  supported  by 
the  international  community.  The  Mechanism  is  the 
nucleus  for  deepening  democracy  and  disseminating 
best  practices  among  African  Union  member  States 
and 
improving 
governance  in  all  its  ramifications.  As  the  second-
cycle  review  process  begins  under  the  African  Peer 
Review  Mechanism.  Nigeria  calls  for  the  effective 
implementation  of  the  national  programmes  of  action 
arising  from  the  peer  review  exercise  for  the  17 
countries so far reviewed. 
reflects  Africa’s  commitment 
to 
Nigeria  will,  for  its  part,  continue  to  work  with 
like-minded  countries  to  achieve  the  objectives  of 
NEPAD  and  the  APRM  for  the  betterment  of  our 
people.  We  therefore  stand  ready,  as  always,  to  work 
with Member States for the advancement of our region 
and  the  entire  world.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the 
various  initiatives  created  within  the  framework  of 
regional cooperation with Africa.
Mr.  Roet 
Finally,  we  highly  commend  Mr.  Ibrahim  Assane 
Mayaki,  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the  NEPAD 
Planning and Coordinating Agency, for his leadership 
in serving the programmatic interventions of NEPAD 
and the African Peer Review Mechanism.
(Israel):  Africa  has 
transformed 
immensely  since  the  1950s  and  1960s,  when  it  began 
the  difficult  journey  from  poverty  towards  greater 
economic  stability.  Over  the  past  decade,  the  number 
of Africans living in extreme poverty has continued to 
decline,  more  African  boys  and  girls  have  completed 
elementary  education,  and  child  mortality  has  been 
reduced by almost half.
Today, African industry is becoming more diverse 
and  competitive.  From  agriculture  to  infrastructure, 
services and consumer goods, the continent has become 
a global force to be reckoned with. Africa is not only 
rich in natural resources, it is also rich in human talent 
and potential. With 70 per cent of its population under 
the age of 30, the continent’s future will be shaped by its 
dynamic and vibrant youth, who are more empowered 
and engaged than ever before. Yet in spite of Africa’s 
hopeful  progress  and  development,  the  challenges  of 
the  region  persist.  Drought  and  famine,  hunger  and 
poverty, terrorism and war — those are the obstacles to 
unlocking the continent’s true potential.
Israel recognizes that eradicating poverty in all its 
forms and dimensions is the greatest global challenge 
and  an  indispensable  requirement  for  sustainable 
development.  The  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1) presents a new road map 
that will allow the international community to take the 
necessary  steps  to  rid  the  world  of  extreme  poverty 
once and for all.
I  am  proud  to  stand  here  representing  a  country 
that has been deeply engaged in African development 
for almost six decades. In 1958, then Foreign Minister 
and  later  Prime  Minister  Golda  Meir  visited  the 
newly  independent  States  of  Africa  and  recognized 
the common history and shared struggle of Israel and 
Africa. She resolved to share Israel’s growing expertise, 
explaining:
“Like Africa, we had to learn for ourselves how to 
reclaim the land, how to increase the yields of our 
crops, how to irrigate ... how to live together.”
15-32063
11/12
A/70/PV.35 
16/10/2015
Since  that  time,  Israel  has  shared  its  experience  with 
Africa in areas ranging from agriculture and energy to 
health and education.
Today, our partnership has been transformed into 
a  symbiotic  relationship  based  on  the  exchange  of 
ideas and expertise. Israel’s experience shows that the 
smartest investment, and the one that reaps the greatest 
returns,  is  an  investment  in  women  and  youth.  Invest 
in women. The international community will not regret 
it.  Israel’s  Agency  for  International  Development 
Cooperation, MASHAV, has been working hand in hand 
with African countries for over 50 years to engage and 
empower  the  female  members  of  society.  MASHAV’s 
agribusiness  training  programmes  help  women  break 
away from the cycle of poverty by giving them the tools 
to start their own businesses.
This year, Israel will be submitting a draft resolution 
on  agricultural  technology  for  development,  which 
focuses  on  the  important  role  of  youth  in  improving 
food  security  and  nutrition,  transforming  economies 
and  creating  a  sustainable  future.  Only  by  harvesting 
the untapped potential of every sector of society can we 
tackle the most pressing problems in Africa and around 
the world.
Climate  change  is  becoming  one  of  the  biggest 
impediments  to  development,  as  it  is  the  poorest  and 
the  least  prepared  who  are  usually  the  most  affected. 
Last year, Israel and Germany joined forces to launch 
the  Africa  Initiative,  a  development  cooperation 
programme  aimed  at  helping  to  mitigate  pressing 
global challenges, including climate change. Partnering 
with Burkina Faso, Burundi and Cameroon, the Africa 
Initiative recently launched a programme that builds up 
the capacity of local populations to adapt and counter 
the  impacts  of  climate  change  and  land  degradation, 
using  cutting-edge  agricultural  technologies  such  as 
the drip irrigation invented in Israel.
There  is  no  greater  testament  to  true  friendship 
than  support  offered  in  times  of  greatest  need.  After 
a  devastating  cyclone  season  in  Madagascar,  Israel 
delivered  over  100,000  life-saving  concentrated  food 
rations to fight the malnutrition of over 10,000 children 
in the drought-stricken southern region of the country. 
Last  year,  during  the  height  of  the  terrible  Ebola 
outbreak, Israel sent medical equipment, mobile clinics 
and monetary aid to the countries most affected, making 
it  the  largest  donor  per  capita  in  the  Ebola  Response 
Multi-Partner Trust Fund.
An  African  proverb  states  that  tomorrow  belongs 
to the people who prepare for it today. When I look at 
Africa, I see a continent with an abundance of potential. 
If  we  work  together  to  harvest  that  potential  today, 
we  can  guarantee  a  prosperous  and  peaceful  Africa 
tomorrow.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on these items.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration  of  agenda  item  66  and  its  sub-items  (a) 
and (b) and agenda item 14.
The meeting rose at 4.20 p.m.
12/12 
15-32063
