United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
19th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 30 September 2015, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.19
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Address by Mr. Rosen Plevneliev, President of the 
Republic of Bulgaria
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria.
Mr. Rosen Plevneliev, President of the Republic of 
Bulgaria, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Mr. Rosen Plevneliev, President of the 
Republic of Bulgaria, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President  Plevneliev:  Allow  me  to  congratulate 
you,  Mr.  President,  on  assuming  the  presidency  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session.  I  also 
wish to extend my sincere gratitude to His Excellency 
Mr. Sam Kutesa for his work as President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-ninth session.
Today,  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
our unique Organization. We reflect on what we have 
accomplished,  but  also  on  what  we  have  fallen  short 
of  achieving.  It  is  also  a  time  to  map  the  way  ahead. 
The Secretary-General has announced “Strong United 
Nations.  Better  World.”  as  the  slogan  for  this  year’s 
anniversary. But are we stronger as a community? Are 
we  shaping  a  better  world  for  our  children?  We  are 
living in turbulent times. The number of crises around 
the world is at a record high with failing States, frozen 
conflicts, wars and terrorism creating insecurity around 
Europe. Our citizens feel that instability. They expect 
politicians to act boldly, to solve and not to deepen the 
crises.
The  ongoing  conflicts  in  Syria,  the  Middle  East 
and North Africa are threatening the lives of millions. 
The  rising  extremism  that  no  borders  can  contain  is 
a  serious  challenge  to  the  international  community. 
The  degrading  humanitarian  situation 
in  several 
conflict  zones  has  forced  millions  of  people  to  leave 
their  homes,  pack  their  whole  lives  into  a  suitcase 
and  embark  on  a  perilous,  sometimes  even  deadly 
journey  to  safety.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  people 
are  at  Europe’s  doorstep,  reaching  out  for  a  helping 
hand, struggling and fighting for the right to live. As 
a result, nationalistic parties that feed on people’s fears 
have seized the day and are gaining momentum. Hate 
speech,  racism,  xenophobia,  populism  and  aggressive 
nationalism are again on the rise.
All of those challenges transcend national borders 
and call upon us to act with resolve on a global scale. 
Robert Schuman, called “the Father of Europe” as one 
of the founding fathers of the European Union and the 
greatest peace projects the world has ever seen, stated 
in  the  Schuman  Declaration  of  9  May  1950:  “World 
peace  cannot  be  safeguarded  without  the  making  of 
creative  efforts  proportionate  to  the  dangers  which 
threaten it.” We should not wait for the crises to appear 
on our television screens to prompt us to act. It is high 
time that we acted together to address the causes, not 
the consequences.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29562 (E)
*1529562*
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
Peace is not just the absence of war. Peace is human 
rights. Peace is the rule of law. Peace is rules that apply 
to  everyone,  including  global  and  regional  Powers. 
Security, development, human rights and the rule of law 
are interdependent and mutually reinforcing universal 
values.  They  are  the  pillars  of  the  United  Nations. 
Every crisis can be traced back to an initial phase when 
someone violated the law and human rights. To prevent 
future  crises,  a  United  Nations  early-warning  crisis 
detection  system  needs  to  be  set  up  to  safeguard  the 
rule of law and human rights.
Poverty, inequalities and environmental degradation 
are issues that require our attention. Bulgaria welcomes 
the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  is  fully  committed 
to its implementation. For the first time in the history 
of  humankind,  people  are  at  the  very  heart  of  a 
development  agenda  that  leaves  no  one  behind.  This 
truly transformative Agenda reflects the complexity of 
the challenges we face today. It takes into consideration 
the  right  of  every  individual  to  live  in  dignity  and 
prosperity  and  ensures  the  equal  participation  of  all 
sections of society.
Climate  change  is  a  serious  problem.  Its  impact 
continues  to  cause  more  disparities  and  conflicts. 
Climate  change  negotiations  have  entered  a  critical 
stage. 2015 is a landmark year — we have an opportunity 
to end two decades of intense climate negotiations and 
begin a new era through the adoption of a global, legally 
binding protocol in Paris in December. My country will 
contribute to the successful finalization of that process.
Women’s participation in all aspects of social and 
political  life  still  remains  a  major  challenge  in  many 
parts  of  the  world.  Development  will  never  be  truly 
sustainable  and  lasting  peace  will  never  be  achieved, 
if  half  of  the  world’s  population  is  excluded.  Gender 
equality is an absolute necessity for the full realization 
of human rights and the functioning of democracy.
the 
Today, 
international  community  faces  a 
deteriorating global security environment, characterized 
by  a  rising  number  of  civil  wars,  growing  extremism 
and  an  increased  number  of  humanitarian  crises.  A 
renewed focus on conflict prevention is needed. In the 
five years since its beginning, the conflict in Syria has 
come to represent a major threat to international peace 
and security. The presence of Daesh in the region has 
become a key obstacle to a political settlement in Syria 
and  a  serious  risk  to  the  stability  and  the  territorial 
integrity  of  Iraq.  The  most  recent  terrorist  attacks  in 
Egypt,  Tunisia,  Kuwait  and  Turkey  have  shown  that 
violent extremism and radicalization transcend national 
borders.
Joint  action  by  the  international  community  in 
the  fight  against  violent  extremism  is  crucial.  The 
United  Nations  is  the  best  platform  for  managing 
and  coordinating 
international  efforts.  We  need 
Governments  and  law  enforcement  institutions  to 
cooperate  closely  with  regional  organizations,  civil 
society, local communities, media and the private sector 
in  order  to  ensure  durable  and  viable  solutions.  On  a 
national level, we should adopt policies and measures 
that  can  prevent  the  radicalization  of  marginalized 
groups and ensure their better integration in society.
As  long  as  the  conflict  in  Syria  continues,  the 
refugee  crisis  will  not  subside.  The  efforts  of  the 
entire international community should focus on ending 
hostilities in conflict zones and supporting institution 
building,  the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for  human 
rights. The role of neighbouring States is also of great 
importance.
Europe  is  currently  focused  on  the  establishment 
of a solidarity scheme that will allow the fair relocation 
and resettlement of refugees among all Member States. 
We need to establish an appropriate mechanism that can 
distinguish  those  in  need  from  those  just  looking  for 
a better life. The migrant crisis is a security concern. 
Apart  from  the  fear  of  infiltration  by  extremists  on 
European  soil,  the  issue  of  illegal  human  trafficking, 
which  requires  our  urgent  attention  and  concerted 
action, has again been raised.
Given  the  unprecedented  migratory  flow  towards 
Europe, the European Union (EU) has to demonstrate 
solidarity and responsibility. In the EU, we need not just 
to address the crisis but to solve it in a manner guided by 
European unity and our common desire for a peaceful 
and  free  Europe.  The  European  Union  represents  the 
largest area of human rights, peace and democracy in 
the world. It is a family that stands together.
The international community was deeply shocked 
by the deliberate destruction of world cultural heritage 
sites in Syria and Iraq by terrorists. That is not only a 
cultural tragedy, but a severe blow to human civilization. 
Societies without ethics and values, without morals and 
culture, have no future. In that respect, I would like to 
underline UNESCO’s important role in the protection 
2/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
of cultural heritage sites in armed conflicts and in the 
prevention of illegal trafficking in cultural artefacts.
diversity. And it is up to all of us to shape the world we 
live in with tolerance and humanism.
There is a clear need to revitalize the Middle East 
peace  process.  Bulgaria  fully  supports  the  Secretary-
General’s Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace 
Process,  Mr.  Nickolay  Mladenov,  in  his  challenging 
mission.  My  country  reaffirms  its  position  that  the 
United  States-led  formula,  the  two-State  solution,  is 
the realistic, just and lasting way to settle the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict.
Bulgaria  has  consistently  supported  diplomacy  as 
the only way to resolve the issue of the Iranian nuclear 
programme. We welcome the Joint Comprehensive Plan 
of Action and hope that all the measures agreed therein 
will be fully implemented in a timely fashion.
This  year  we  celebrate  70  years  since  the  end  of 
the Second World War. We remember all the innocent 
lives that perished in the death camps of the Holocaust. 
There  will  always  be  people  who  will  try  to  justify 
the  killing  of  innocents  in  the  name  of  a  cause  they 
consider worthy. We should never forget that we are all 
born  equal,  born  in  peace  to  live  in  peace  and  strive 
for peace. I remember the words of the young Muslim 
man  from  Mali,  Lassana  Bathily,  who  saved  several 
innocent lives during the hostage crisis earlier this year 
in Paris:
“We  are  brothers.  It  is  not  a  question  of  Jews, 
Christians or Muslims. We are all in the same boat 
and we have to help one another.”
Today we need active citizens who care for human 
rights.  As  President,  I  stand  behind  Bulgarian  civil 
society  in  their  demands  that  State  institutions  be 
transparent  and  efficient.  I  am  proud  of  the  example 
Bulgarian civil society set in 1943 by saving all 48,000 
Bulgarian  Jews  from  the  Nazi  camps.  Unfortunately, 
Bulgaria  was  not  in  a  position  to  do  the  same  for  the 
Jewish  people  from  northern  Greece  and  parts  of 
Yugoslavia,  as  they  were  not  Bulgarian  citizens.  We 
deeply  mourn  the  loss  of  their  lives,  as  well  as  all 
the  victims  of  the  Holocaust,  whom  we  will  always 
remember.
Temples  of  different  religions  —  an  Orthodox 
church,  a  mosque,  a  synagogue  and  a  Catholic 
cathedral — are located just across from my office, in 
the very heart of the Bulgarian capital, Sofia. They have 
coexisted peacefully, some of them for centuries. That 
is a great example of tolerance, wisdom and respect for 
The annexation of Crimea was a blatant violation 
of international law and its principles. Bulgaria stands 
firmly  behind  Ukraine’s  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity.  For  us,  Crimea  is  Ukraine  and  Ukraine 
is  Europe.  My  country  condemns  any  attempts  to 
further  destabilize  Ukraine.  The  full  implementation 
of  the  Minsk  Agreements  is  essential.  We  call  on  all 
stakeholders  to  engage  constructively  in  a  political 
dialogue in order to reach a just political solution.
The  Bulgarian  Chairmanship-in-Office  of 
the 
South-East  European  Cooperation  Process  will  work 
for the adoption of a Joint Declaration to reaffirm the 
principle  of  the  inviolability  of  national  borders  in 
the Balkans. We want borders not to be moved, but to 
fall. Enhanced regional cooperation and the European 
integration  of  all  the  countries  in  the  region  is  our 
ultimate goal.
Among the eight Secretary-Generals of the United 
Nations,  all  of  them  men,  a  national  from  the  Group 
of Eastern European States has never been appointed. 
The recently adopted resolution 69/321 (2015) stresses 
the need to ensure equal and fair distribution based on 
gender  and  geographical  balance,  while  meeting  the 
highest  possible  requirements  for  the  appointment  of 
the Secretary-General. The time has come for a woman 
from Eastern Europe to be entrusted with the highest 
position  in  the  Secretariat.  Once  a  joint  letter  by  the 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council, as envisaged in the resolution, starts the formal 
process for soliciting candidates for Secretary-General, 
Bulgaria  stands  ready  to  nominate  the  candidate  who 
will be the best fit for the post. That will be a person of 
excellence,  with  extensive  experience  in  international 
relations,  with  great  interpersonal  skills,  an  efficient 
manager and communicator, a true leader.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Bulgaria 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Rosen Plevneliev, President of the Republic of 
Bulgaria, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
15-29562
3/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
Address by Mr. Juan Carlos Varela Rodríguez, 
President of the Republic of Panama
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Panama.
Mr. Juan Carlos Varela Rodríguez, President of the 
Republic of Panama, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Carlos  Varela  Rodríguez, 
President of the Republic of Panama, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Varela  Rodríguez  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
This is the second year that I have come to the General 
Assembly  as  President  of  Panama,  representing  a 
peaceful, healthy and noble people, to whom I send my 
greetings from this rostrum, as I also greet the rest of 
the world’s people.
Like the illustrious Panamanian Ricardo J. Alfaro, 
who  took  part  in  the  international  conference  in  San 
Francisco when the Charter of the United Nations was 
drafted there in 1945, I stand here today to reaffirm our 
commitment  to  human  rights  and  international  peace 
and  security.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  recognize  the  efforts  of  the  thousands  of  men  and 
women  of  this  Organization,  in  particular  those  who 
have given their lives to achieve the objectives of the 
United Nations.
I preside over a Government whose foreign policy 
is based on dialogue and consensus, as well as on the 
continuing  search  for  social  peace  and  the  common 
good. That was in evidence during the historic Summit 
of  the  Americas  that  was  held  in  Panama  in  April, 
which  became  the  stage  for  the  recent  rapprochement 
between Cuba and the United States of America, both 
of whose people and Governments we congratulate on 
taking that important step. We hope that the process of 
normalizing relations between them will culminate in 
a fair and just end to the economic blockade of Cuba. It 
will be a major challenge for Latin America to maintain 
the spirit of fraternity that prevailed in Panama during 
the Summit, but we are determined to do so.
I  congratulate  the  Governments  of  Colombia  and 
Venezuela  on  the  progress  achieved  in  Quito  with 
respect to normalizing relations between them in order 
to  guarantee  the  well-being  of  their  peoples  and  to 
strengthen the unity between them as part of the great 
family to which we all belong and within which we are 
all eager to overcome any differences through dialogue. 
I reiterate our support for the Colombian peace process 
and to welcome the agreements recently reached there. 
We  call  for  that  same  resolve  and  determination  that 
the  Government  of  Colombia  brought  to  bear  in  its 
peace efforts, which we all supported, to be applied to 
dismantling the structures for producing drugs, which 
have  introduced  such  violence  to  that  country  and  to 
the  countries  that  serve  as  conduits  for  transporting 
narcotics to the main consumer markets.
In order to ensure the well-being and prosperity of 
all nations, armed conflicts and territorial disputes must 
end. We strongly condemn terrorism. It is unacceptable 
in  the  twenty-first  century  for  human  beings  to  be 
burned alive or decapitated on the basis of their faith. 
The  international  community  needs  to  close  ranks 
to  protect  humankind  and  to  promote  dialogue  and 
tolerance as the only mechanism for achieving peace. 
Panama will stand firm in the belief that, together, we 
can meet such challenges. We call on the great Powers 
that united more than 70 years ago to bring an end to 
the  Second  World  War  to  continue  to  work  with  all 
Member States on a road map to defeat terrorism and 
to bring lasting peace to all the countries of the world.
Peace  depends  on  recognizing  the  legitimate 
aspirations of all peoples. In that regard, in recognizing 
the hope of the people of Palestine to become a State, 
Panama calls on the State of Israel and on Palestine to 
reach an agreement that will permit the coexistence of 
the Jewish State of Israel and the State of Palestine. The 
future of humankind depends on the structural capacity 
of each nation to address its people’s problems so that 
people do not attack each other.
The  world  today  is  facing  two  different  kinds  of 
war:  armed  conflicts  and  the  ongoing  wars  that  are 
being  waged  against  poverty,  inequality,  the  lack  of 
opportunities  and  organized  crime,  which  engender 
insecurity and violence, leading many young people to 
feel excluded and to fall prey to organized crime and 
terrorism. The best tool for addressing those scourges 
is to design State policies that offer our young people a 
better education, more opportunities and decent jobs and 
that permit them to grow up in safe neighbourhoods and 
communities with adequate public infrastructure. That 
is a task that requires the participation of Government, 
the private sector and civil society.
4/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
In 
this  era  of 
telecommunication  and  social 
networks,  Panama  recognizes  that  the  exchange  of 
information  and 
intelligence  among  Governments 
is  crucial.  With  the  development  of  air  and  maritime 
connectivity, Governments and their security agencies 
must be able to distinguish between a tourist or business 
traveler  and  elements  of  organized  crime.  Panama  is 
aware  of  its  responsibility  as  a  transit  country  and  is 
moving to develop a regional security centre to combat 
crime  in  a  more  coordinated  fashion  and  to  support 
other countries of the region in that effort.
Our  country  is  not  immune  from  the  illegal  flow 
of migrants escaping war and seeking a better future. 
We  reiterate  our  commitment  to  treating  them  with 
dignity and to offering them humanitarian assistance. 
We  are  taking  the  relevant  measures  in  that  regard 
and  are  building  the  necessary  infrastructure  in  our 
country.  Hundreds  of  migrants,  including  Africans, 
Latin Americans and others, pass through Panama each 
month,  leaving  their  families  and  children  behind  on 
journeys  that  can  take  upwards  of  two  years.  When  I 
recently asked one migrant why he had left his country, 
he  replied  that  he  was  simply  seeking  a  place  where 
there  was  peace.  We  all  have  an  obligation  toward 
migrants.  Just  as  we  joined  forces  to  fight  the  Ebola 
virus  and  HIV/AIDS,  we  need  to  continue  our  joint 
struggle  to  solve  the  problems  that  lead  our  brothers 
and sisters to migrate from their countries.
I  am  convinced  that  the  most  effective  way  to 
combat inequality and seek better days for humankind 
is  through  the  honest  management  of  our  countries’ 
resources  for  the  benefit  of  our  people.  In  a  world  of 
such  conspicuous  wealth,  there  is  no  justification  for 
the poverty that afflicts millions of its citizens. Heads 
of  State  and  their  collaborators  must  understand 
that  politics  is  a  form  of  service  and  that  we  are  the 
temporary  custodians  of  resources  that  belong  to  our 
people and for which we are accountable.
In today’s world, women suffer disproportionately 
from  the  effects  of  inequality,  poverty,  war,  forced 
displacement  during  conflict,  human  trafficking  and 
unequal  opportunities.  Therefore,  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  and  the  United  Nations  have  a  critical 
role  to  play  in  defending  and  promoting  the  rights 
and  freedoms  of  women.  I  reiterate  the  call  that  I 
made  during  the  Global  Leaders’  Meeting  on  Gender 
Equality  and  Women’s  Empowerment  to  the  effect 
that countries must provide more resources to combat 
femicide, trafficking in persons and all acts of violence 
against women.
We are facing major challenges, but we also have 
enormous  opportunities  to  change  course  and  ensure 
a  better  planet  for  future  generations.  In  the  light  of 
the  upcoming  summit  on  climate  change  in  Paris,  we 
call on all countries to reach a definitive, universal and 
inclusive agreement that will enable us to jointly address 
the  damage  caused  to  our  planet,  which  has  been  so 
severely affected by our unsustainable practices.
The  Coalition  for  Rainforest  Nations  consists  of 
some 52 member countries and is co-chaired by Panama. 
The  Coalition  proposes  to  include  a  commitment  to 
reducing  emissions,  which  have  been  exacerbated  by 
deforestation and forest degradation, and to strengthen 
mechanisms  for  financing.  Those  mechanisms  also 
include  climate  change  mitigation  and  adaptation 
measures. We all have the right to have access to safe 
drinking water, and that is one of the main challenges 
for  our  Governments.  Protecting  our  water  resources 
and our oceans, recovering our forests, expanding the 
production and distribution of safe drinking water for 
everyone  in  our  countries  and  providing  appropriate 
solid-waste treatment are also priorities on our agenda.
Our  citizens  need  access  to  decent  housing  and  a 
modern  and  efficient  public-transport  system,  which 
are  essential  for  improving  the  quality  of  life,  and 
family  life  in  particular.  All  States  are  obligated  to 
ensure  that  their  people  have  access  to  education  and 
public-health systems. In our country, we have invested 
heavily 
remodelling  and  equipping 
schools  and  hospitals,  and  in  providing  appropriate 
human-resources  training.  We  are  therefore  taking 
very  positive  and  decisive  steps  to  reach  those  goals. 
Our  economy  continues  to  grow,  and  we  are  making 
progress with our social and public infrastructure plans. 
Those  large  infrastructure  projects,  together  with  a 
robust  international  financial  system,  will  enable  our 
service-based economy to grow and will help produce 
new and better employment for our young people.
in  building, 
In 2016, Panama will conclude our canal expansion. 
That  and  the  expansion  of  our  ports,  airports  and 
financial system are the two most important pillars of 
our  service-based  economy.  Protecting  our  financial 
and logistical systems in order to ensure that they are 
used only for legitimate purposes is our responsibility. 
That  is  why  we  have  strengthened  our  security  and 
intelligence  cooperation  with  other  Governments.  We 
15-29562
5/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
have  enacted  important  laws  and  undertaken  reforms 
that  protect  our  financial  system  from  any  negative 
practices. In accordance with the conclusions reached 
at  the  third  International  Conference  on  Financing 
For Development, held recently in Addis Ababa, I am 
very  pleased  to  announce  that  Panama  is  making  a 
commitment to increasing its international cooperation 
in the area of fiscal transparency.
We  also  announce  our  commitment  to  making 
further  progress  in  automatically  exchanging  data 
and  information  on  tax  matters  at  the  bilateral  level, 
as our main trading partners have done. That exchange 
must  be  contingent  on  the  right  of  each  country 
to  take  measures  that  are  commensurate  with  its 
capacities,  national  circumstances  and  international 
geopolitical realities. Each country has the right to take 
the  necessary  measures  in  the  area  of  the  automatic 
exchange of data and information that should be used 
for  the  common  good.  Those  measures  should  ensure 
that  such  information  will  not  be  utilized  for  any 
purposes that would harm the competitiveness of some 
countries or be a detriment to others. We propose that 
the discussion of those particular issues be incorporated 
into the regular agenda of the United Nations, so that 
such  initiatives  can  be  discussed  by  countries  on  an 
equal  footing.  Our  privileged  geographical  location 
contributes  significantly  to  the  development  of  our 
economy and our citizens. We also have a global vision 
of development that reflects our country’s motto, which 
is  “Pro  Mundi  Beneficio”  or  “For  the  Benefit  of  the 
World”.
Strengthening the United Nations system is also our 
responsibility. We must review the governance structure 
of  the  United  Nations,  and  in  particular  the  Security 
Council, in order to achieve greater transparency and 
geographical  representation.  That  is  why  Panama  is 
actively participating in the current reform process of 
the  Security  Council  and  is  working  to  bring  about  a 
rapprochement  in  country  positions.  Since  the  birth 
of  the  Organization,  we  have  always  reaffirmed  our 
commitment to working together with all countries as 
we seek to establish the common good and to build a 
better  world.  That  is  why,  at  this  very  rostrum  from 
which  His  Holiness  Pope  Francis  made  a  call  for 
millions of Catholics to support the United Nations on 
the seventieth anniversary of this noble Organization, 
I, as a Head of State, reaffirm Panama’s commitment 
to ensuring that our capacities are at the service of the 
international community and to working hand-in-hand 
with all nations, so that we can move forward towards a 
world that is more just and more equitable and in which 
peace and dialogue will always prevail.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I thank the President of the Republic of Panama for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Juan  Carlos  Varela  Rodríguez,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Panama,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Maithripala Sirisena, President of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Maithripala  Sirisena,  President  of  the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Sirisena  (spoke  in  Sinhala;  English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  My  country  is  a 
long-standing Member of the United Nations, and it is 
indeed an honour and a pleasure for me, as the newly 
elected President of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of  Sri  Lanka,  to  address  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
annual  general  debate.  On  behalf  of  the  Government 
and people of Sri Lanka, I wish to heartily congratulate 
His Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft on his election 
as President of the General Assembly at its seventieth 
session. Let me also convey my gratitude to the former 
President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  who 
contributed  immensely  to  the  achievements  of  the 
previous session.
The United Nations now has a distinguished track 
record  of  70  years.  We  at  the  United  Nations  have 
consistently engaged in the responsible and challenging 
task  of  working  to  ensure  global  peace,  security  and 
development  during  these  past  70  years.  However, 
I  realize  that  similar  challenges  still  lie  ahead  of  us. 
When leaving office at the height of the Korean crisis 
in  1953,  Mr.  Trygve  Lie,  the  first  Secretary-General, 
described  the  position  of  Secretary-General  as  “the 
most impossible job in the world”. It is no secret that all 
Secretaries-General, during their terms of office, have 
contributed substantively to promoting the universality 
of the United Nations and to making it an Organization 
that  can  serve  humankind  well  in  to  the  future.  The 
incumbent Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon, has also made a remarkable contribution to 
the  Organization.  I  would  ask  Secretary-General  Ban 
6/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
Ki-moon to accept my respectful gratitude and that of 
my people for the service he has rendered.
Sri Lanka has been a Member of the United Nations 
for  60  years.  As  a  Member  State,  we  have  played  a 
very  active  and  responsible  role  in  the  Organization. 
Sri  Lanka  is  a  nation  that  respects  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
international conventions and treaties. A main objective 
of  the  United  Nations  is  to  recognize,  safeguard  and 
promote human rights. Sri Lanka remains committed to 
fulfilling that responsibility. In that respect, we intend 
to implement a new programme and plan of action in 
Sri Lanka to advance human rights.
Sri  Lanka  has  played  a  multifaceted  role  in  the 
United  Nations.  Our  contribution  to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions,  which  began  in  the  1960s, 
to 
continues.  Sri  Lanka 
further 
forward 
enhancing  our  committed  contribution 
to  United 
Nations peacekeeping in the future.
looks 
A new era of democracy dawned in Sri Lanka on 
8 January, ushering in justice, freedom and equality. Our 
social and human development approach is founded on 
pluralism, reconciliation and sustainable development. 
The development vision of my Government for the next 
five years is based on the same principles. The theme 
of this session — “The United Nations at 70: the road 
ahead  for  peace,  security  and  human  rights”  —  is 
therefore very much in consonance with the vision of my 
Government. Moreover, my Government is committed 
to developing a proactive and practical programme in 
Sri Lanka to further ensure peace, security and human 
rights.
In  the  past  eight  months,  in  two  consecutive 
elections, the people of Sri Lanka elected a new president 
and a new Government. In its first six months in power, 
my Government has introduced essential amendments 
to  the  Constitution  in  order  to  strengthen  democracy 
in  Sri  Lanka.  Those  amendments  have  reinforced  the 
foundations  of  good  governance  through  institutional 
reforms  that  strengthen  pluralism  and  democracy. 
With  my  personal  involvement  and  facilitation,  some 
of the executive powers vested in the presidency were 
transferred  to  the  Parliament  and  other  independent 
institutions.
Following  the  general  elections  in  August,  I  was 
able to unite the two major political parties in Sri Lanka 
so as to create an alliance for governance by consensus 
in  the  country,  changing  the  confrontational  political 
culture  that  had  prevailed  there  for  six  decades. 
Our  new  vision  for  the  country  involves  achieving 
the  twin  objectives  of  sustainable  development  and 
reconciliation.  A  fundamental  requirement  in  that 
context is dealing with the past honestly and building 
a modern Sri Lankan nation. In dealing with the past, 
we  will  follow  a  process  of  truth-seeking,  justice, 
reparation and non-recurrence.
It is imperative that Sri Lanka adopt a new social, 
economic and political approach, so that it can rise to 
the challenges of the twenty-first century. In that regard, 
reconciliation  has  received  priority  attention  in  my 
country. The new Government of consensus has, under 
my leadership, already taken several steps to introduce 
and  operationalize  the  constitutional  and  institutional 
reforms required to accelerate the achievement of those 
goals.  Sri  Lanka  is  a  country  that  has  suffered  from 
conflict. While conflict brings destruction to a society, 
it is possible for many lessons to be learned during and 
after a conflict.
All  forms  of  war  and  terrorism  are  a  disgrace  to 
humankind. The Preamble of the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights refers to the disregard and contempt 
for human rights, which results in barbarous acts and 
ultimately rebellion. Whatever its root causes are, the 
challenge of this era is to find ways and means to defeat 
brutality against humankind. Problems can arise from 
resorting to terrorism as a means of solving grievances, 
as well as from actions taken to eliminate terrorism. Sri 
Lanka has succeeded in eliminating the terrorism that 
continues  to  disturb  other  developing  countries  from 
Asia to Africa and Latin America.
We defeated one of the world’s most ruthless terror 
enterprises. In addition, our post-conflict experiences 
have  also  been  meaningful.  We  believe  that  all  those 
experiences  can  be  shared  fruitfully  with  other 
developing countries affected by terrorism. Sri Lanka 
remains prepared to engage in a more active dialogue 
with  such  countries  and  will  continue  to  speak  and 
advocate against terrorism.
It is in that context that I wish to address the theme 
of  this  session.  We  all  know  that  the  United  Nations 
was  established  with  the  objective  of  preventing  the 
recurrence  of  the  human  tragedies  that  took  place  in 
the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century  and  which  had 
a negative impact on humankind. At the heart of this 
year’s  theme  is  “peace,  security  and  human  rights”. 
That  theme  motivates  us  to  review  whether,  during 
15-29562
7/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
the past seven decades, we have lived up to the initial 
expectations  of  the  United  Nations.  I  believe  that,  if 
global  development  is  to  succeed,  it  is  important  to 
have a dialogue within the South as much as between 
the North and the South. My country, which lies in the 
South,  can  contribute  immensely  to  nurturing  such 
South-South dialogue.
in  sustaining 
Sri  Lanka  is  in  the  forefront  of  the  oldest 
representative democracies in the South Asian region. 
We  have  been  fortunate  in  being  able  to  preserve  the 
democratic ethos in our country despite the prolonged 
conflict.  Despite  several  factors  militating  against 
maintaining  a  high  economic  growth  rate,  we  have 
succeeded 
the  State  social-welfare 
policies carried over from independence. We have never 
compromised on those policies, which include universal 
free education, free health care and the eradication of 
poverty.  Following  a  path  of  social  democracy,  Sri 
Lanka  has  succeeded  in  achieving  high  scores  in  the 
Human  Development  Index,  even  during  the  years  of 
conflict. That success is testimony to our commitment 
to achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
Development  should  help  to  empower  women 
and  young  people  and  ensure  security  for  children. 
Frustration among the young usually leads to conflict. 
Yet young people are the driving force for sustainable 
development, and we should therefore work to transform 
them into a highly skilled workforce that can succeed in 
the knowledge-based world of the twenty-first century. 
That  should  be  a  major  component  of  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  adopted  in  the  form  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1).
Similarly, we should launch a national programme 
to  empower  women  and 
their 
contribution  to  development.  Special  programmes  to 
protect children and safeguard their rights are also an 
essential factor in developing an effective and humane 
society. My understanding of sustainable development 
is  that  we  should  aim  not  for  a  development  model 
that  is  isolated  and  confined  to  particular  sectors  or 
groups, but one that is inclusive and capable of lifting 
development standards and levels globally. To that end, 
I  would  like  to  stress  the  need  for  a  fresh,  universal 
approach.
thereby  enhance 
As  we  learn  from  the  Buddhist  ethos  that  is 
ingrained in Sri Lankan culture, there are three kinds 
of  human  conflict.  The  first  is  the  conflict  between 
humans and nature, in which we constantly engage in 
order to enjoy material comforts in life. In that context 
human beings today attempt to exploit natural resources 
extensively  in  the  name  of  development.  The  second 
is  the  conflict  among  humans.  Such  conflicts  occur 
among  individuals,  communities  and  nations,  and  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  affirms  that 
they occur when human rights are not protected by the 
rule of law. The third type of conflict is that within the 
human being. The first two kinds occur when we lose 
the battle within us as human beings, and the third type 
is therefore the root cause of all conflicts.
Extremism, 
the 
overconsumption, 
arbitrary 
exploitation  of  the  environment,  violations  of  human 
rights and vicious disparities in income are all results 
of our inability to overcome our cravings. Among other 
problems,  they  cause  insecurity,  conflict,  violations 
of  rights  and  exploitation.  The  edifice  of  sustainable 
development should, therefore, be built on a foundation 
of self-discipline and equity. If we could practise that 
at the personal, community, national and global levels, 
it  would  be  a  giant  leap  forward  for  humankind.  I 
propose that we, as national leaders, take such a self-
disciplined,  equity-based  approach  into  consideration 
when drawing up relevant action plans for the future.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  my  firm 
commitment  and  dedication  to  elevating  my  beloved 
motherland of Sri Lanka and its people to the level of 
one of the greatest and noblest nations of the world, and 
contributing to the liberation of all humankind.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic  of  Sri  Lanka  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr.  Maithripala  Sirisena,  President  of 
the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Ms. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, 
President of the Republic of Croatia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Croatia.
Ms.  Kolinda  Grabar-Kitarović,  President  of  the 
Republic of Croatia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations Her 
Excellency Ms. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, President of 
8/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
the Republic of Croatia, and to invite her to address the 
Assembly.
President  Grabar-Kitarović:  Allow  me 
to 
congratulate  you  on  your  election,  Mr.  President, 
and  to  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  for  his 
leadership  throughout  the  previous  session.  We  have 
great  expectations  for  this  session,  recognizing  that 
there is an urgent need for action on so many issues and 
in  so  many  areas  of  the  globe.  While  acknowledging 
the  challenges  that  lie  ahead,  we  sincerely  hope  that 
by  working  together  we  can  turn  those  challenges 
into  opportunities  and  make  significant  progress  in 
achieving some of our common goals.
As we celebrate the 70 years of the United Nations, 
I find myself reflecting on the past 23 years, beginning 
in 1992, when Croatia joined the United Nations and has 
since gone on to contribute to the Organization’s legacy 
and  achievements  for  almost  a  third  of  its  existence. 
During  those  23  years,  Croatia  has  transformed  itself 
from  a  recipient  of  United  Nations  assistance  and  an 
item  on  the  Security  Council’s  agenda  into  an  active 
member  supporting  the  work  of  our  Organization  in 
many areas. Croatia has served on the Security Council 
and has held the presidency of the Economic and Social 
Council, and has actively and substantively contributed 
to  our  common  cause,  whether  in  peacekeeping 
missions, peacebuilding efforts, arms control, economic 
and social development, gender equality, strengthening 
the  international  legal  architecture,  or  reforming  the 
General Assembly. The United Nations can rest assured 
that Croatia will continue its efforts and contributions.
Can  we  truly  say  that  we  are  doing  enough  to 
ensure  peace,  security  and  human  rights?  Are  we 
doing  enough  to  protect  our  planet,  the  only  one  we 
have? Member States, all 193 of us, should not forget 
how  important  membership  is,  nor  how  important 
are  the  commitments  that  we  have  made  to  ensuring 
global peace and security. Strengthening the role of the 
United  Nations  and  promoting  international  relations 
and  economic  order  is  in  the  interest  of  all  nations. 
That is not an empty phrase, but a reality that we must 
constantly be mindful of.
We  must  ask  ourselves  whether  we  are  currently 
meeting the expectations that people around the globe 
have  of  the  United  Nations  and  of  us  as  Members. 
The  answer  is  obvious,  and  not  flattering.  Too  many 
armed  conflicts  persist,  too  many  people  are  denied 
basic  human  rights,  too  many  children  go  to  sleep 
hungry  every  night,  and  too  many  women  and  girls 
are  left  behind.  We  are  witnessing  a  breakdown  in 
basic  governance  and  increasing  economic  despair 
in  too  many  parts  of  the  world,  with  more  than 
1  billion  children  worldwide  living  in  poverty.  It  is 
heartbreaking  just  to  read  the  number  of  children 
who, according to UNICEF, die each day as the result 
of poverty — 22,000. This is where a commitment to 
the  2030  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (resolution 
70/1) is not just necessary, but perhaps overdue. I was 
inspired by the spirit of our Summit last week and hope 
that  it  will  materialize  swiftly  and  purposefully  into 
actions and accomplishments.
We live in a world so rich with potential and beauty, 
natural and man-made alike, and yet we have witnessed 
one  atrocity  after  another.  This  year  marks  numerous 
tragic  anniversaries,  among  which  we  note  the  one 
hundredth  anniversary  of  the  unspeakable  Armenian 
tragedy,  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  liberation 
of  Auschwitz,  and  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
genocide  at  Srebrenica.  With  regard  to  anniversaries, 
we  should  ask  ourselves  whether  they  are  personal 
events intended only for the victims and the survivors, 
or whether they are general reminders designed to alert 
all of us to how much we have forgotten since our initial 
attempt to maintain world peace.
Accountability  should  always  be  at  the  centre  of 
our actions. The fight against impunity for war crimes, 
crimes  against  humanity  and  genocide  is  not  only  a 
matter of justice. It is an equally important element of 
conflict  prevention.  No  crime  should  go  unpunished, 
and  the  effective  prosecution  of  those  responsible 
has  to  be  ensured.  We  should  spare  no  effort  to  put 
an  end  to  the  culture  of  impunity.  Croatia  is  a  strong 
supporter of the International Criminal Court. As the 
victim of aggression in the 1990s, we are proud to be 
the thirteenth State to ratify the Kampala amendments 
on the crime of aggression.
Nearly everything can be prevented. Time will, as 
always, determine who was right and who was wrong, 
but is that the only alternative to hindsight? Too often, 
we have to deal with the consequences of our inaction. 
Too often, instead of solving problems at their source 
and  addressing  the  root  causes  at  an  early  stage,  we 
are required to spend more time and resources on the 
crises after allowing them to spin out of control. That 
is  because  we  ignored  the  early  signs  or  we  just  did 
not  have  the  time  or  the  courage  to  get  involved.  We 
must change that approach. We must act in time, with 
15-29562
9/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
determination  and  adequate  resources.  That  is  not 
only the right thing to do. It is smart thing to do. The 
migrant crisis, which has flooded numerous European 
States, is a textbook case of paying too high a price as a 
consequence of inaction.
The  challenge  of  migration  is  nothing  new.  It 
has  been  a  part  of  human  existence  since  the  dawn 
of  humankind.  However,  with  60  million  people  on 
the  move  worldwide,  what  is  new  is  the  lack  of  clear 
guidelines and comprehensive policies. We need sound 
legal,  social,  economic,  humanitarian  and  logistical 
solutions.  The  current  migrant  and  refugee  problem 
has national, regional and global aspects. It cannot be 
addressed — yet alone solved — by one State alone. It 
is a multidimensional problem that requires multilateral 
solutions,  in  terms  of  protection  against  terrorism, 
preventive diplomacy and sound development. Whoever 
wants  to  avoid  that  issue,  or  pretend  that  it  does  not 
exist, will simply not be able to help solve it.
Since  mid-September,  with  almost  80,000  people 
having  entered  Croatia,  my  country  has  joined  a  list 
of  European  Union  and  neighbouring  South-East 
European countries that have been heavily burdened by 
the current crisis. Croatia has to look at that issue from 
its own perspective, while keeping in mind historical, 
current  and  future  global  policy  trends.  And  finding 
the  right  balance  of  national,  regional  and  global 
considerations  is  the  hardest  task.  We  must  focus  on 
both  micro  and  macro  levels  at  the  same  time,  while 
keeping in mind what is really at stake: human lives and 
the  future  of  so  many  individuals  and  their  families. 
Here, I ask for consensus within the European Union. 
Here, I ask for a global response. Here, I ask that we 
focus  on  the  rule  of  law  and  the  conventions  that  we 
signed at the end of the Second World War.
The  solution  to  the  migrant  crisis  in  Europe  will 
have to be addressed at the highest global level in several 
ways.  It  is  an  issue  that  involves  ways  of  defending 
against  terrorism,  which,  together  with  extremism  in 
all  its  forms,  must  be  prevented  and  defeated  at  its 
core.  But  it  is  also  an  issue  that  involves  providing 
sufficient financial and material aid to refugee camps 
in Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon and elsewhere in that part 
of  the  world.  And  equally  important,  it  is  an  issue  of 
efficiently  policing  and  administering  international 
borders. Last but not least, it is an issue that involves 
combating  those  who  profit  from  human  trafficking 
and eliminating their networks.
The  first  thing  that  always  comes  to  mind  is 
educating our children, our future generations, working 
harder at achieving global citizenship and building on 
the  United  Nations  idea  of  a  global  classroom,  such 
as the Global Education Initiative, in which Croatia is 
proud to serve as a champion country. It is important 
to  establish  a  curriculum  on  common  standards  for 
global  citizenship,  a  curriculum  that  should  become 
compulsory for all children in their formative years. We 
need to deliver on the promise of the right to education.
It  seems  clear  that  legislation  is  not  enough.  We 
need a change of mindset and behaviour, and that is only 
possible through education. We must promote education 
that instils tolerance, trust, compassion, integrity, truth 
and respect for the dignity of the individual and gender 
equality. Children are not born with hatred, intolerance, 
racism, sexism, prejudice or stereotypes in their hearts 
and minds. They have much to teach us.
The  rostrum  in  front  of  me  bears  the  logo  which 
70 years ago became a symbol, not just of the United 
Nations, but of the better world that we then envisioned 
for  ourselves.  Since  that  time,  progress  has  been 
achieved in some areas, while there have been alarming 
developments in others. I am hopeful that our quest for 
a  better,  safer  and  more  prosperous  world  is  far  from 
over.
To  take  one  example  of  the  dangers  we  face,  the 
impact  of  climate  change  and  global  warming  on  the 
economy, development, security, political stability and 
human rights of all countries can no longer be ignored. 
As  we  can  see  for  ourselves,  the  United  Nations  logo 
shows  the  world  from  the  perspective  of  the  Arctic 
Circle  and,  sadly,  last  year’s  winter  was  one  of  the 
warmest ever. As the Arctic ice melts and the oceans 
grow  warmer,  do  we  truly  grasp  the  full  impact  that 
that has already had on our planet?
We  cannot  predict  the  final  impact  that  those 
changes will have. All over the world, and in Croatia 
as  well,  we  are  recording  changes  in  sea  temperature 
and  have  witnessed  unprecedented  changes  in  the 
ecosystem. In Croatia’s beautiful Adriatic Sea, we have 
begun documenting the arrival of new species of fish 
from tropical waters. That represents a trend that many 
other  countries  are  witnessing,  and  there  has  to  be  a 
joint solution on that front. With sea levels rising, many 
coastal States, like Croatia, will be seriously affected, 
while the even greater impact that some of our fellow 
10/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
Member  States  may  face  will  be  detrimental  to  their 
very existence.
It 
is  vital 
that  our  actions  deal  with 
the 
interrelationship  between  climate  change,  natural 
resources,  prosperity  and  security.  We  have  to  fully 
understand how those interactions will affect our future 
prosperity, stability and development. In that regard, we 
must realize how fragile life is on this planet and that 
the  damage  that  we  have  done  may  not  be  reversible. 
We  must  learn  how  to  change  our  behaviour  and  to 
show more respect for our planet.
The  twenty-first  session  of  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change  is  a  chance  that  we  cannot  afford 
to  miss.  We  should  collectively  take  pride  in  the  fact 
that we did not miss the chance presented by the Third 
International Conference on Financing for Development 
at Addis Ababa. We must remain committed to finding 
and  executing  the  effective  means  of  implementation 
for  our  ambitious  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  follow  the  Addis 
Ababa Action Agenda to the fullest extent.
Unfortunately, the world continues to be appalled 
by  the  brutality  of  a  multitude  of  violent  acts  and  to 
face  increasingly  complex  security  threats  involving 
non-State  actors.  In  this  context  of  evolving  security 
challenges, the rise of terrorism presents a threat to all 
of us and calls for a well-coordinated response. Croatia 
welcomes the work of the High-level Independent Panel 
on Peace Operations and its review of United Nations 
peacekeeping operations. We hope that its report will 
provide future guidance for increasing the effectiveness 
of  United  Nations  peace  operations  as  one  of  the  key 
mechanisms for ensuring global peace and stability.
In implementing the mandates of peace operations, 
we stress the importance of giving the highest priority 
to  the  protection  of  civilians,  the  prevention  of 
atrocities, especially sexual and gender-based violence, 
and the protection of children. In addition, I would like 
to  welcome  efforts  made  in  other  review  processes, 
namely  the  review  of  the  peacebuilding  architecture 
and the implementation of Security Council resolution 
1325  (2000).  I  am  truly  confident  that  all  expert 
recommendations will find a way to be implemented.
We  are  witnessing  fragile  peace  and  security 
situations  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  Under  such 
circumstances,  our  dedication  to  security  agreements 
is  becoming  increasingly  important.  This  is  why  we 
regret that the Review Conference of the Parties to the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
did  not  produce  the  much-needed  results.  Croatia 
believes  that  this  Treaty  continues  to  be  the  most 
effective multilateral instrument for preventing nuclear 
proliferation  and  achieving  nuclear  disarmament.  We 
should therefore spare no effort to uphold and enhance 
the Treaty in the future.
The uncontrolled spread of conventional weapons 
represents  another  significant  threat  to  security  and 
stability. In that respect, Croatia was proud to preside 
over the first Review Conference of the Convention on 
Cluster Munitions, which is among the most insidious 
types of weapons because they continue to be a threat 
long  after  a  conflict  ends.  It  is  no  coincidence  that 
the  Conference  took  place  in  Dubrovnik,  a  city  that 
suffered  attacks  from  these  kinds  of  weapons  in  the 
Homeland War.
As  a  country  with  a  rich  historical  heritage  with 
seven UNESCO world heritage sites, Croatia strongly 
condemns  the  deliberate  destruction  of  the  world’s 
cultural  history  and  urges  the  United  Nations  and 
everyone to do more to protect and safeguard heritage in 
areas where it is threatened by conflicts and extremists.
In  terms  of  diplomacy  and  foreign  relations,  this 
year  could  mark  a  turning  point  in  bilateral  relations 
and a shift towards global policy. In this regard, I cannot 
overemphasize  the  importance  of  trust,  not  just  trust 
among  Member  States  and  international  institutions, 
but trust and truth at every level.
On  the  positive  side,  we  are  pleased  to  note  the 
positive  outcome  of  the  negotiations  on  the  Iranian 
nuclear programme. We congratulate the parties to the 
talks on their determination and political will to resolve 
an issue that has been burdening international relations 
for so long. This is a major victory for diplomacy. We 
expect in the coming months to see to what extent the 
removal  of  the  nuclear  threat  is  contributing  to  the 
vitally  important  question  of  the  stabilization  of  the 
Middle East and beyond.
Another  milestone 
security 
has  been  achieved  with  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
Arms  Trade  Treaty.  This  legally  binding  instrument 
establishes for the first time minimum standards in the 
trade of conventional arms at a global level. Croatia is 
proud to be among the countries that have ratified and 
put into effect this milestone treaty.
international 
in 
15-29562
11/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
Croatia  is  fully  committed  to  promoting  peace 
and  stability  globally,  but  even  more  so  regionally. 
We  host  the  Regional  Arms  Control  Verification  and 
Implementation  Assistance  Centre,  an  organization 
with  the  important  mission  of  fostering  dialogue  and 
cooperation on security matters in South-East Europe, 
with a focus on harmonizing norms and standards, thus 
facilitating  rapprochement  with  the  European  Union 
and NATO.
The  issue  of  most  pressing  concern  is  related  to 
the  challenges  in  Europe,  in  particular  its  southern 
neighbourhood. The challenge of the migrant crisis has 
somehow  triggered  a  connection  between  geography 
and peoples’ destinies and has brought to the fore the 
tragic  consequences  of  unresolved  conflicts.  As  to 
Syria, Iraq, Libya, Yemen and the other crisis areas of 
the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  we  share  a  grave 
concern  about  the  continuing  and  growing  trend  of 
violence, religious intolerance and terrorist actions. In 
those countries, we see unspeakable acts of barbarism 
and  terror  with  such  appalling  forms  of  killing  as 
beheadings, we see sexual violence against women and 
girls  and  other  extremely  heinous  crimes  —  against 
humanity, culture, religion, dignity and, most appalling 
of all, human life. It is shocking and sickening. It has 
nothing to do with Islam, a religion of peace, tolerance 
and understanding.
We urgently need to stand together, face this huge 
challenge  and  mobilize  all  our  efforts  to  fight  the 
Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  and  all  forms  of 
intolerance  and  discrimination.  At  the  same  time,  we 
have to find prospects for a peaceful resolution of these 
conflicts  and  pave  the  way  for  a  better  life.  It  is  not 
enough to end human suffering; it is just as important 
to provide hope and opportunities.
We  need  to  build  safe,  tolerant  and  flexible 
communities that are resistant to radicalization and the 
marginalization  of  certain  social  groups,  particularly 
the most vulnerable ones. To that end, we must expand 
economic,  educational  and  other  opportunities.  By 
so  doing,  we  will  eliminate  the  preconditions  for 
radicalization and violent extremism, which may lead 
to  terrorism.  In  this  regard,  we  call  for  the  timely 
implementation  of  the  newly  adopted  Sustainable 
Development Goals.
There is no development without security. And there 
is no real security without justice, human rights, rule 
of law and good governance. Sustainable development 
rests upon economic, social and environmental pillars 
and the positive synergy between them. There are few 
straight  lines  leading  to  the  final  goal;  rather,  it  is  a 
meticulous  task  that  requires  connecting  all  the  dots, 
big  and  small.  The  complexity  of  the  2030  Agenda 
is  testimony  to  that  fact.  However,  it  is  the  only  way 
forward  if  we  are  truly  committed  to  leaving  no  one 
behind.
On  the  European  continent,  in  Ukraine,  the 
implementation and the viability of the peace process 
have  to  be  ensured.  The  ceasefire  must  be  respected 
and  the  Minsk  peace  plan  adhered  to  by  all  parties. 
Croatia,  together  with  its  partners  in  the  European 
Union,  remains  committed  to  Ukraine’s  sovereignty, 
independence  and  territorial  integrity,  as  well  as  to 
assisting and supporting Ukraine on its reformist path 
towards a peaceful and prosperous future.
We  emphasize  the  importance  of  the  stability  of 
South-East Europe and its prosperity. Croatia remains 
strongly committed to doing its utmost to support the 
processes of the Euro-Atlantic integration of its south-
eastern  neighbourhood.  We  strongly  believe  that  this 
is  the  most  efficient  and  constructive  way  to  secure 
peace, stability and prosperity for this part of Europe. 
In particular, as we approach the twentieth anniversary 
of  the  Dayton  Peace  Accords,  we  all  should  support 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  a  politically  emancipated 
State in which decisions are taken for the equal benefit 
and prosperity of its three constituent peoples and other 
communities and individuals.
History is more often than not the real litmus test 
for leadership. The attribute that all great leaders have 
had in common is the ability to see past the boundaries 
of their own timidity. That has often been called vision, 
or perhaps foresight. In any case, I believe that we all 
of  us  fail  when  we  are  forced  to  make  a  distinction 
between  friends  or  allies  and  adversaries.  Drawing 
those  distinctions  and  picking  sides  creates  another 
wall in terms of global policy. It not only blocks vision, 
but  it  confines  reason.  And  once  that  line  is  crossed, 
history teaches us that conflict is inevitable. In terms 
of all the current crises, I have to say that the traditional 
bilateral diplomacy should be reevaluated in the light of 
shifting global policy.
Never  judge  a  country,  person  or  problem  by  its 
size.  Do  not  look  at  numbers  and  do  not  be  limited 
by  vocabulary,  legal  terms,  boundaries  or  borders.  In 
terms  of  size,  Croatia  ranks  124th  in  the  world,  but 
12/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
we  are  determined  that  our  international  presence 
and  relevance  will  be  far  greater  than  our  size.  Our 
geographical  location  keeps  us  at  the  global  table, 
sometimes  against  our  will,  but  mostly  by  choice. 
I,  for  one,  am  not  going  anywhere  and  will  continue 
to  ask  real  questions.  More  and  more  leaders  must 
realize, as I have from the start, that we should, all of 
us,  look  on  solidarity  and  membership  in  multilateral 
and  international  organizations  as  a  privilege  for  our 
citizens. When we leave New York and return home, we 
need to evaluate our national and international interests 
and  values.  We  should  talk  to  friendly  States  and  to 
adversaries.  We  should  engage  in  dialogue,  ask  real 
questions, build trust and keep our perspective. We, the 
peoples  of  the  United  Nations,  have  the  tools  and  the 
means. Now is the time to find the will to use them.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Croatia 
for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Kolinda  Grabar-Kitarović,  President  of  the 
Republic of Croatia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, 
President of the Republic of Costa Rica
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Costa Rica.
Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, President of the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President Solís Rivera (spoke in Spanish): Costa 
Rica  would  like  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventieth session. I reiterate my country’s commitment 
to work with you, as we do with all Member States, to 
achieve the goals that we have set for this session and to 
strengthen global governance and multilateralism. You 
have demonstrated excellent judgement in focusing this 
debate on the celebration of the seventieth anniversary 
of  the  Organization,  especially  the  interrelationship 
between peace, security and human rights.
The  intensity  and  gravity  of  events  leading  up 
to  this  session  make  our  discussion  both  timely  and 
urgent.  Millions  of  human  beings  are  living  through 
a  black,  starless  night.  Their  pain,  their  despair  and 
their anguish are testing us to the core of our humanity. 
Caught  in  the  perilous  grip  of  circumstances  from 
which no one can escape, let us demonstrate that a new 
era is dawning for our civilization and that we are not 
witnessing its decline.
Costa Rica urges, therefore, that we in the General 
Assembly,  instead  of  going  in  for  the  same  rhetorical 
exercise  we  engage  in  every  year  and  every  decade, 
repeating  what  we  already  know,  take  action  and 
translate into deeds what until now have been merely 
words. What we say and what we do must be consistent. 
We are not prisoners of fate, but rather, the shapers of 
destiny. Our actions matter.
Mr.  Tesfay  (Eritrea),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
This must be the time for the General Assembly to 
trigger long-awaited processes, to shake off indifference 
and  to  embrace  solidarity  with  renewed  passion  and 
commitment.  This  must  be  the  time  for  the  General 
Assembly to show that, while we are a community of 
nations,  we  are  also  much  more  than  the  sum  of  our 
individual  interests.  This  must  be  the  time  for  the 
General Assembly to consolidate the leadership of the 
United Nations as the centre of global governance and 
to continue to engage in reforms that will make it more 
effective, efficient, robust, proactive and dynamic.
To  that  end,  let  us  begin  by  electing  in  the  most 
democratic way possible the person who will hold the 
position of Secretary-General. Since 1946, the selection 
process for the person to hold the most important position 
in the international community has been characterized 
by its lack of transparency. Costa Rica is determined to 
change that. Along with Estonia, my country is leading 
the  efforts  of  nearly  30  States  to  establish  a  process 
that is transparent, democratic, equitable, inclusive and 
that, unlike its predecessor, will be consistent with the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  similar  high-level 
international processes.
Costa Rica is proud to have included, in resolution 
69/321,  adopted  just  a  few  weeks  ago,  an  invitation 
to  Member  States  to  suggest  female  candidates  for 
the  position  of  Secretary-General.  The  time  has 
come for that position to be held by a woman. Let us 
acknowledge the ability, competence and commitment 
15-29562
13/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
of women in all spheres, and let us send an unequivocal 
political signal that, as we commemorate the twentieth 
anniversary of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for 
Action, the Organization is practising what it preaches 
in  terms  of  equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women 
and girls.
intervene and to deploy the wide range of resources and 
tools  at  its  disposal  to  resolve  conflict.  Despite  those 
resources, we did not do enough to prevent the current 
human tragedy. We did not do what was necessary to 
prevent thousands from venturing out to sea with their 
children.
In  order  to  consolidate  the  position  of  the  United 
Nations at the centre of global governance, the Security 
Council should assume its responsibilities in its response 
to the maintenance of international peace and security, 
taking  into  account  human  rights  in  its  actions  and 
improving its work in the prevention of conflicts. The 
Council’s  focus  on  conflict  prevention  is  inadequate, 
and when it does take action, that action often comes 
too late. That has been true in the case of Libya, Mali, 
the  Central  African  Republic,  Somalia,  the  Sudan, 
South Sudan and Yemen. I say that because of the acts 
of sexual violence and gender-based violence that have 
been  perpetrated  against  girls  and  boys,  women  and 
men in Iraq, Syria and north-eastern Nigeria. I would 
also refer to the genocides in Rwanda and Srebrenica 
and to the tolerance that has been shown for violations 
constantly committed against many peoples, including 
the  people  of  Palestine,  and  against  racial,  ethnic  or 
sexual minorities in other parts of the world, including 
in the West. I also say that because of the millions of 
Syrians who have been displaced in historic proportions, 
and the thousands more who continue to risk their lives 
at sea to escape death inflicted by chemical weapons, 
barrel  bombs  and  cluster  munitions,  weapons  whose 
use Costa Rica categorically condemns.
None of those crises erupted without prior warning. 
They  developed  over  years,  and  sometimes  decades, 
of  offences  against  human  dignity  and  human  rights. 
They were caused by deficient or corrupt Governments 
and  institutions,  which  engaged  in  acts  of  repression, 
discrimination  and  exclusion,  acts  that  eventually 
restricted  fundamental  freedoms;  deprived  people  of 
their economic, social and cultural rights; exacerbated 
disparities  in  development;  and  failed  to  uphold  the 
right of the peoples of the world, including the right of 
the people of Israel, to live within secure borders.
The primary responsibility for promoting, protecting 
and fulfilling peoples’ rights and fundamental freedoms 
rests with the States. However, when Governments fail 
to  meet  their  responsibility  to  protect,  because  they 
lack either the will or the ability to safeguard the rights 
of  their  own  people,  then  it  is  up  to  the  international 
community, and in particular the Security Council, to 
If the United Nations is to consolidate its position 
as the centre of global governance, it must ensure that 
respect  for  and  the  promotion  of  human  rights  are 
not  subject  to  manipulation.  We  must  be  particularly 
wary of the attempts by some States to manipulate the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations in an effort to prevent the United Nations from 
tackling the global challenges for which it was set up 
and from effectively defending the rights of individuals. 
Some try to distort the purposes and principles of the 
Charter  by  affirming,  for  example,  that  human  rights 
violations are not related in any way to the maintenance 
of international peace and security, or that sovereignty 
precludes the commitment of this Organization to such 
issues.
Sovereignty, a concept associated with the birth of 
the nation State, should no longer be used as an excuse 
for  the  international  community  to  sit  back  and  be  a 
silent witness to a bloody theatre of war. The less we 
consider sovereignty as a wall or a shield, the more likely 
it  is  that  we  shall  be  able  to  fulfil  our  responsibility 
to protect the civilian population. In the words of the 
Secretary-General,
“Early action to prevent conflict and protect human 
rights helps to strengthen sovereignty, rather than 
challenge or restrict it” (S/PV.7389, p. 3).
Thus, no single country — none — can hide behind 
the  wall  of  sovereignty  and  silence  when  serious 
violations  of  human  rights  are  perpetrated.  No  crime 
against  humanity  should  go  unpunished.  For  its  part, 
Costa  Rica  reaffirms  its  support  for  the  Secretary-
General’s  “Rights  Up  Front”  initiative,  which  places 
human rights issues at the heart of efforts by the United 
Nations. It is an attempt to correct the systemic failures 
of the past, as the initiative recognizes that the violations 
of those rights indeed constitute early warning signs of 
coming crises.
Because  human  lives  are  at  stake,  Costa  Rica 
supports  the  French  proposal  to  restrict  the  veto  in 
cases of mass atrocities. That proposal dates back to our 
membership in the Small Five Group and also to efforts 
spearheaded  by  Liechtenstein  in  the  Accountability, 
14/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
Coherence  and  Transparency  group.  The  latter  Group 
has made efforts to adopt a code of conduct that would 
require the permanent members of the Security Council 
to refrain from using the veto in situations of genocide, 
war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  and  to  be 
politically committed to acting promptly and decisively 
in such situations.
The opinion of a single permanent member cannot 
continue to bear more weight than the necessity to save 
lives.  When  a  permanent  member  uses,  or  threatens 
to  use,  the  veto,  in  those  circumstances,  it  publicly 
abandons and disregards the right of victims to justice 
and peace and undermines international efforts to put 
an  end  to  impunity.  The  veto  breaches  the  trust  that 
millions of people have vested in the United Nations as 
their last hope in such cases as those mentioned. We all 
agree on the importance of strengthening the rule of law 
to consolidate the institutions that protect the civilian 
population  to  address  the  root  causes  of  conflicts,  to 
promote  accountability  and  to  combat  impunity,  both 
nationally and internationally.
It is no coincidence, then, that the rule of law has a key 
place in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution  70/1).  However,  only  one  permanent 
member  of  the  Security  Council  acknowledges  the 
compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, and only two have ratified the Rome Statute of 
the International Criminal Court. Costa Rica calls upon 
all  States  to  adhere  to  and  implement  international 
instruments for the protection of human rights and the 
fight against impunity in the face of atrocious crimes. 
Once  again,  we  call  on  all  States  to  ratify  the  Rome 
Statute, including the 2010 Kampala amendments. The 
more  multipolar  our  world,  the  stronger  will  be  our 
confidence in the rule of international law throughout 
the world.
The  commitment  to  maintaining  international 
peace and security is also reaffirmed by all permanent 
members of the Security Council. However, at the same 
time,  they  are  the  largest  producers  and  exporters  of 
conventional weapons in the world. Moreover, despite 
the  explicit  prohibitions  in  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty, 
those  countries  continue  to  conduct  international 
arms  transfers,  including  transfers  of  small  and  light 
weapons, and including to conflict areas in the world. 
The  explicit  prohibitions  on  transfers  of  conventional 
arms  contained  in  the  treaty  exist  to  prevent  human 
suffering  and  to  save  lives.  They  are  not  there  to  be 
ignored. Costa Rica calls on the States that have signed 
the Arms Trade Treaty to ratify it, and on those who have 
ratified it, to set to work without delay, enthusiastically, 
energetically and with dedication, on securing its full 
and effective implementation.
Furthermore,  States  possessing  nuclear  weapons, 
including  the  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council, have violated their unequivocal commitment 
to  nuclear  disarmament  pursuant  to  article  VI  of  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons. 
They  argue  that  the  current  security  climate  is  not 
conducive  to  nuclear  disarmament,  and  they  cling  to 
the  traditional  paradigm  of  State  security  that  keeps 
16,000 nuclear warheads in the world, many on high-
alert status and even susceptible to cyberattacks.
Compliance  with  article  VI  is  not  conditional  or 
optional; it is mandatory. Nuclear disarmament cannot 
be postponed any longer. The fact that 115 States have 
signed  the  humanitarian  pledge  for  the  prohibition 
and elimination of nuclear weapons demonstrates that 
the international community is convinced of the need 
to  place  nuclear  weapons  on  an  equal  footing  with 
other  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  weapons  that  are 
prohibited under specific treaties. Costa Rica calls for 
more States to endorse the humanitarian pledge and to 
fill the legal vacuum by prohibiting and eliminating the 
nuclear threat once and for all.
Placing the United Nations at the centre of global 
governance  is  not  limited  exclusively  to  improving 
the  work  of  the  Security  Council  or  strengthening  its 
role  in  conflict  prevention.  It  also  implies  a  greater 
strengthening  of 
the 
Organization  as  a  whole.  Thus  our  efforts  must  go 
further.  Let  us  focus  not  only  our  attention,  but  also 
additional  resources,  on  building  up  the  third  pillar, 
that of human rights.
the  General  Assembly  and 
In  terms  of  human  rights,  the  United  Nations 
has  fostered  a  significant  policy  development,  even 
extending  border  protection  to  cover  an  increasing 
number of vulnerable groups, such as children, people 
with disabilities, the elderly, migrants and indigenous 
peoples.  But  while  the  principles  and  obligations  are 
clear, and an institutional structure of deliberative and 
executive bodies exists, the situation on the ground in 
many parts of the world is far from what it should be, 
and  the  distribution  of  resources  does  not  match  the 
statements and declarations.
The promotion and defence of human rights cannot 
continue to be limited to rhetoric. In a year that marks 
15-29562
15/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
the twentieth anniversary of the adoption of the Beijing 
Declaration  and  Platform  for  Action,  gender  equality 
and  the  empowerment  of  women  in  many  regions  of 
the  world  must  cease  to  be  mere  words  and  become 
commitments  aligned  with  and  following  from  the 
Declaration, incorporating public policies at the national 
level  that  bring  us  genuinely  closer  to  the  targets  of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, with a 
cross-cutting focus on gender that is realized in every 
Goal, target and indicator we have committed to.
The  major  challenges 
facing  multilateralism 
therefore  require  a  more  effective  and  efficient 
governance  structure  if  we  are  to  achieve  respect  for 
human  rights  and  their  observance  and  progressive 
development.  It  is  crucial  to  create  opportunities  for 
effective  participation  by  non-State  actors  and  to 
enhance regional structures for implementing the global 
agenda, but above all, it is essential to make increased 
budgetary  provision  for  strengthening  institutional 
frameworks, given that at the moment the third pillar 
of  the  United  Nations  receives  only  3  per  cent  of  its 
regular institutional budget.
We  should  adjust  our  regulatory  framework  and 
institutional efforts in the area of human rights so that 
the Human Rights Council, the system of human rights 
treaties  and  the  Security  Council,  among  others,  can 
better  synchronize  their  efforts.  The  challenge  is  to 
ensure that we act as a single Organization, effectively 
and  coherently,  not  clumsily,  not  fragmented,  so  that 
we can protect and promote people’s rights, including 
the  right  to  development.  We  showed  that  we  could 
do  that  throughout  the  negotiating  process  that  led 
to  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, in which Costa Rica shared its experience 
on the issues of conservation, environmental protection, 
unilateral  disarmament  and  leadership  in  creating  a 
model for sustainable development. And we will show 
it again in Paris at the end of this year when we reach 
a  landmark  agreement  on  climate  change,  because 
climate  change  constitutes  such  a  serious  threat  to 
human development.
Costa  Rica  firmly  believes  that,  where  Paris  is 
concerned,  we  need  serious,  binding,  people-centred 
commitments  that  respect  our  rights  and  involve 
comprehensive  action  on  climate  issues  not  only  on 
the  part  of  Governments  but  also  from  the  various 
economic  and  social  sectors.  In  that  regard,  I  would 
like to especially commend the leadership of President 
François Hollande and the support that President Barack 
Obama has given to the process through his clean energy 
plan. We must also take advantage of the opportunities 
that international cooperation offers by way of means 
of implementation in order to facilitate every country’s 
participation in global efforts, and particularly that of 
middle-income  countries.  Our  country  has  launched 
the  Geneva  Pledge  for  Human  Rights  in  Climate 
Action,  a  voluntary  initiative  based  on  recognition  of 
the relationship between the enjoyment of human rights 
and  the  impact  and  consequences  of  climate  change, 
and we call on all States to commit to it.
The gap between words and deeds only increases 
mistrust and erodes multilateralism. Costa Rica refuses 
to accept a situation that undermines the authority of 
the United Nations, puts us in a very vulnerable position 
in  the  face  of  threats  old  and  new,  and  damages  our 
much-needed Organization’s legitimacy in the minds of 
its Member States and the international community as 
a whole. That is why it should be here in the General 
Assembly that we say that we, the people, wish to be 
able  to  live  in  peace,  freedom,  equality,  justice  and 
democracy  and  to  have  the  opportunity,  in  the  words 
of that apostle of Cuban independence, José Martí, to 
create, believe and grow. Those words resonate today 
more than ever.
Terrorism,  organized  crime,  drug-trafficking  and 
worldwide pandemics are proof that threats to a nation’s 
security  are  no  longer  confined  within  its  borders. 
Collective threats must be addressed collectively. The 
violations  of  the  most  basic  human  rights,  above  all 
the right to life, committed by terrorists and other so-
called non-State actors, as well as the dreadful acts that 
have been perpetrated in areas affected by the Islamic 
State in Iraq and the Levant against women and girls 
and  other  vulnerable  groups,  pose  a  serious  threat  to 
international peace and security.
Costa  Rica  strongly  and  unequivocally  condemns 
terrorism, in all its forms and manifestations, regardless 
of the perpetrators or their purposes. In the face of the 
human tragedy of still uncertain proportions caused by 
the  displacement  of  civilians  fleeing  violence,  Costa 
Rica  emphasizes  the  importance  of  seeking  a  global, 
collaborative and integrated approach that can enable us 
to speedily address this critical situation in a sustained 
manner. History shows that we get better results when 
we  place  cooperation  above  confrontation,  tolerance 
above terrorism and ideas above radical ideologies.
16/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
Regarding the fight against terrorism, Costa Rica 
is concerned about the use of sexual violence as a tactic 
of terror and the links between violent extremism and 
control over women’s autonomy and its effects on and 
restrictions of their rights. We are also worried about the 
growing use of armed drones outside conflict zones and 
about various Governments’ reinterpretations of human 
rights and humanitarian principles. My country believes 
it is urgent that we take action to better understand this 
issue  and  address  all  of  its  implications.  It  is  here  at 
the  United  Nations,  through  our  disarmament  bodies, 
that  we  should  begin  to  adopt  measures  that  increase 
transparency and ensure accountability regarding their 
use.
that, 
rather 
To mark its seventieth anniversary, let us make the 
United Nations a more robust, dynamic and energetic 
organization 
than  debating  abstract 
concepts, seeks practical and specific solutions. Let us 
start by electing the first woman to occupy the post of 
Secretary-General and ensuring that the process is an 
inclusive, transparent and equitable one that will give 
us a visionary, independent, strong leader who will be 
the  first  to  react,  lead  and  act  on  humankind’s  most 
urgent challenges and crises.
Let us demand coherence and consistency from the 
permanent members of the Security Council regarding 
the  rule  of  law  and  international  law,  arms  control 
and nuclear disarmament, to cite three examples. The 
Council  is  a  key  part  of  global  governance,  and  its 
legitimacy  depends  on  the  consistency  of  its  actions. 
Let us also work to strengthen the General Assembly 
and its bodies with the aim of increasing the efficiency 
and effectiveness of the entire Organization.
Let  us  protect  the  innocent  civilians  who  are 
the  deliberately 
targeted  victims  of  unspeakable 
crimes  of  sexual  violence  and  attacks  by  chemical 
weapons,  cluster  munitions,  armed  drones  and  barrel 
bombs.  Sovereignty  does  not  and  should  not  protect 
Governments that commit atrocities against their own 
people. Let us end impunity and back efforts to commit 
to and adopt a code of conduct that prevents the use of 
the  veto  in  cases  of  genocide,  war  crimes  and  crimes 
against humanity.
Let  us 
together  combat 
is 
spreading  like  wildfire  and  is  an  increasing  threat 
to  international  peace  and  security,  human  rights, 
universal  culture  and  sustainable  development.  And 
let  us  do  so  in  strict  observance  of  international  law, 
terrorism,  which 
including  standards  of  human  rights,  international 
humanitarian and international refugee law. We cannot 
overstate the danger of self-serving reinterpretations of 
such standards, especially when they are used to justify 
unilateral  action  for  solutions  that  should  always  be 
reached multilaterally.
Let  us  work  without  ceasing  and  without  excuses 
for  a  culture  of  peace.  As  the  seat  of  the  University 
for Peace, now in its thirty-fifth year, Costa Rica calls 
on  all  States  for  their  support  in  providing  it  with 
the  resources  it  needs  to  fulfil  its  important  task  of 
educating  the  leaders  that  our  world  needs  if  it  is  to 
prevent and resolve conflicts and promote lasting peace.
In  commemorating  our  Organization’s  seventieth 
anniversary, let us remember the importance of keeping 
our  doors  open  to  new  realities;  to  civil  society  and 
non-governmental  organizations;  to  women;  to  young 
people,  with  whom  we  should  engage  in  promoting 
reconciliation  and  sustainable  peace;  to  groups  with 
suggestions, such as the Elders; to collaboration between 
United Nations system agencies so as to provide holistic 
responses to the challenges we face; to the regional and 
subregional organizations that also play a crucial role 
in conflict prevention and management; to all peoples 
and  individuals  and  their  ideas,  dreams,  beliefs  and 
aspirations; and to change and readiness to act.
The  Costa  Rican  poet  Jorge  Debravo  once  said 
that over the ages, humankind has continued to ascend 
an  unending  upward  path  to  progress.  It  appears  that 
sometimes  we  have  regressed.  We  have  only  stopped 
along  the  way  for  self-affirmation.  Seventy  years 
in  human  history  seems  of  no  longer  duration  than 
a  gust  of  wind.  However,  when  we  measure  those 
years  in  terms  of  the  lives  that  have  been  saved,  the 
agreements reached and the progress made in finding 
common solutions to the gravest crises that humankind 
has  confronted,  the  passage  of  seventy  years  begins 
to  feel  monumental.  It  is  extraordinary  what  we  can 
accomplish when we stand together and act as one.
In closing, I cite the optimistic words of my teacher 
poet Debravo:
“The  world  is  moving  towards  an  era  of  love 
and brotherhood. Misery shall disappear from the 
face  of  the  Earth.  Equal  rights  and  opportunities 
shall prevail despite those who struggle to enslave 
them.  Join  me  in  the  fight,  brothers!  For  what 
must come will come sooner if our arms turn the 
windmills of history together!”
15-29562
17/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Costa Rica for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, President of the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. John Dramani Mahama, President 
of the Republic of Ghana
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Ghana.
Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama, President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama, 
President of the Republic of Ghana, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Mahama:  Let  me  congratulate  the 
Secretary-General,  the  staff  of  the  United  Nations 
and,  indeed,  all  Member  States,  on  the  occasion 
of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  this  all-important 
international Organization.
“Study history, study history”, Winston Churchill, 
the  famous  British  Prime  Minister  once  said,  for  “in 
history  lies  all  the  secrets  of  statecraft”.  And  so  we 
study  history.  In  millions  of  schools  throughout  the 
world,  there  are  untold  numbers  of  students  studying 
history and learning about the events of our past. And 
in the pages of the books they use to study, history is 
compressed  and  reduced  to  its  barest  essentials.  The 
immensity of a whole era is whittled down and conveyed 
in  mere  paragraphs,  with  significant  events  carefully 
packaged  into  simple  sentences.  Nevertheless,  within 
those pages are indeed the secrets of statecraft. From 
those  pages,  we  come  to  understand  what  our  world 
once was and the process by which it evolved to become 
what the world is today. Reading them, we learn from 
the mistakes that were made.
The  world,  into  which  the  United  Nations  was 
born  70  years  ago,  seems  like  such  a  faraway  reality. 
In  1945,  the  names  that  filled  newspapers  were  those 
of  Auschwitz,  Buchenwald,  Hiroshima,  Nagasaki, 
Dresden  and  even  that  of  the  Red  Army.  In  1945, 
Ecuador  declared  war  on  Germany  and  Japan.  Syria 
also declared war on Germany and Japan. The Soviet 
Union  was  victorious  in  the  Battle  of  Konigsberg, 
as  well  as  the  Vienna  Offensive.  Spain  broke  off 
diplomatic  relations  with  Japan.  And  the  historically 
neutral country of Switzerland closed its borders with 
Germany. Those are just a few of the events that took 
place before the watershed San Francisco Conference in 
April of that year, when 50 nations convened to declare 
their commitment to peace.
My country, Ghana, was not among those nations. 
It would take another 22 years for the then Gold Coast 
colony  to  gain  its  independence  and  become  Ghana. 
In fact, a great many of the countries represented here 
in  this  Hall  —  particularly  those  from  the  so-called 
developing world — did not exist as sovereign nations. 
Nevertheless,  here  we  are  today,  very  much  a  part  of 
this Organization, aptly called the United Nations, and 
very much a part of this world. That is why I wish to 
state, quite emphatically, at the start of my address, that 
it is time for there to be greater inclusivity at the United 
Nations. Truth be told, it is long past time. The world 
that was in 1945 does not exist now in 2015. Therefore, 
the visionary Organization that was formed to meet the 
needs of that world must now be reformed to meet the 
needs of today’s world. And those needs are many.
The  names  that  fill  today’s  newspapers  are  those 
of  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  Syria,  Boko  Haram 
and Al-Qaida. The hashtags that circulate on the social 
media  now  refer  to  Sandra  Bland,  who  died  under 
suspicious  circumstances  while  in  police  custody  in 
Texas;  Aylan  Kurdi,  a  young  Syrian  boy  who,  along 
with  his  family,  washed  up  on  the  shores  of  a  beach 
in Turkey; and Madau Gach Dut, one of the thousands 
who have died in the conflict in South Sudan. I could 
continue, because the names are many and the lists are 
long.
Thousands  have  died  in  Syria,  Pakistan,  Nigeria, 
Mexico, Afghanistan and Somalia, and thousands more, 
the  majority  of  whom  are  from  African  nations,  have 
died in the Mediterranean Sea, while attempting to flee 
poverty, hunger, disease, political strife or persecution. 
Then, too, there are those who did not die while seeking 
refuge  and  whose  perilous  journeys  brought  them 
safely  to  the  borders  of  other  nations  While  some  of 
those nations welcomed their arrival, others subjected 
them to further alienation and degradation.
The numbers are staggering. That is not the history 
that is being taught in schools — at least, not yet. Those 
18/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
are  not  events  that  lend  themselves  to  being  written 
down  in  a  book  and  condensed  into  nicely  worded 
paragraphs  and  sentences.  Those  are  not  events  that 
once happened a long time ago. Those are events that 
are happening today. They are events that are happening 
in our time. And as we gather here today to discuss the 
road ahead, I wish to quote a few words from the speech 
that Franklin Roosevelt, before his untimely death, had 
been  writing  and  preparing  to  deliver  at  that  fateful 
San Francisco Conference. Mr. Roosevelt wrote, “The 
work, my friends, is peace”.
Despite  all  the  changes  that  have  occurred  in  the 
world over the course of the last 70 years, that singular 
truth  remains  the  same.  But  peace,  as  so  many  great 
men  and  women  have  reminded  us,  is  not  just  the 
absence  of  war.  Peace  is  also  the  presence  of  dignity 
in  one’s  life,  the  achievement  of  equality  in  one’s 
endeavours  and  the  respect  of  one’s  humanity  and  its 
attendant  rights.  If  we  are  to  discuss  the  road  ahead, 
we  must  do  so  with  new  language,  with  ideas  and 
solutions that do not exist in the annals of history. And 
we must begin with an examination of our most basic 
institutions  —  governmental,  cultural,  societal  and 
personal.
Some  of  the  institutions  that  were  set  in  place  to 
protect and promote peace are the very ones violating 
their  mandates  and  engendering  fear  in  the  public. 
When  one  race  of  citizens  feels  as  though  their  lives 
do  not  matter,  when  refugees  successfully  escape  the 
horrors of war only to be further brutalized on foreign 
soil, when the already-traumatized victims of conflict 
are  violated  by  international  peacekeepers  who  were 
sent  there  to  ensure  their  safety  and  well-being,  then 
we, as leaders and as the world community, must stop 
being  silent  and  start  taking  action.  We  must  create 
change, because fear serves as fuel for disillusionment 
and apathy, for hatred and xenophobia, all of which form 
the  seed  that,  if  allowed  to  take  root,  will  ultimately 
grow and bear the rotten fruit of war.
What we learned 70 years ago, with the formation 
of  the  United  Nations,  is  that  we  must  each  be  our 
brother’s  keeper;  we  must  allow  ourselves,  as  people 
and, even more, as nations, to belong to one another. In 
Ghana we are also reviewing our rules of engagement 
to maintain a balance between the maintenance of law 
and  order  and  the  basic  rights  of  our  people  to  free 
speech and free expression.
Since the beginning of time, cultural and societal 
traditions have been used as markers of identity. Kente 
cloth is as defining to Ghana as kimonos are to Japan, as 
quinceañeras are to Latin America, and as bar mitzvahs 
are to Judaism. Yet some practices and beliefs, although 
considered  traditional,  have  no  place  in  our  world 
today, and they should not be permitted a place in the 
world that we are planning for the future. Among those 
traditions are those that deny individuals, particularly 
women and children, their basic rights and force them 
into situations that relegate them to a life vulnerable to 
poverty, disease and other unbearable hardships.
Most  of  the  world’s  poorest  people  are  women. 
Currently, we create programmes and policies to address 
that  imbalance;  yet,  regardless  how  successful  they 
may be, they are not permanent solutions. They do not 
solve the ultimate problem, that is, the vast inequality 
between men and women that so many traditions have 
inculcated over the years.
In  Ghana,  through  the  Livelihood  Empowerment 
Against  Poverty  programme,  we  have  provided  cash 
grants  to  a  total  of  77,000  households  throughout  the 
nation.  That  programme,  which  is  aimed  at  poverty 
alleviation, also entitles its recipients to the provision 
of  free  health  care 
the  national  health 
insurance scheme. In order to address the issue of child 
mortality and malnutrition, preparatory work is under 
way to earmark disbursements for pregnant women and 
mothers of children under the age of one year.
through 
It  is  not  a  secret  that  when  it  comes  to  gender 
equality,  education  is  the  key  to  change.  Gender 
inequality  is  a  problem  that  must  be  addressed  at  its 
root. We speak often of ability and access, and those are 
honourable concepts, but the actuality is that being able 
to get an education and having access to an education is 
not the same as actually getting an education.
In  Ghana,  we  have  made  tremendous  progress  in 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goal  (MDG) 
target on universal basic education. We have instituted 
the  Girl  Child  Programme,  which  encourages  parents 
to  send  girls  to  school,  and  at  the  primary  level  we 
have  achieved  gender  parity  between  boys  and  girls. 
But what happens beyond the primary level is another 
matter  altogether.  Young  girls  are  often  taken  out  of 
school and married off. Africa has the highest rates of 
child marriage in the world, following only Asia. It was 
the  intention  of  the  1964  United  Nations  Convention 
on  Consent  to  Marriage,  Minimum  Age  for  Marriage 
15-29562
19/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
and  Registration  of  Marriages  to  abolish  the  practice 
of child marriage. Yet in West Africa, two out of five 
girls will be married before the age of 18. Those young 
girls  will  face  increased  maternal  mortality  rates 
and  increased  rates  of  sexually  transmitted  diseases; 
they  are  subject  to  the  sort  of  poverty  that  is  nearly 
insurmountable.  However,  research  shows  that  64  per 
cent fewer girls will become child brides if allowed to 
complete secondary school.
Recognizing  the  significant  difference  that  that 
change could make in our nation, Ghana has launched a 
campaign, under the auspices of UNICEF, to end child 
marriage in our country by focusing not only on young 
girls’ access to school, but also on their completing their 
education.  That  is  being  achieved  through  enhanced 
access  to  secondary  education  and  beyond,  without 
compromising quality.
Thus far this year we have had a fruitful General 
Assembly. We adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  and  its  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(resolution  70/1),  we  have  discussed  how  to  establish 
resilient  health  systems,  and  we  have  held  a  summit 
on  peacekeeping  and  strategies  to  deal  with  religious 
extremism. We will take many memories back with us, 
but one remarkable image that made a huge impression 
on me in the early days of this gathering was the Pope’s 
car.  It  was  breathtaking  to  watch  the  pontiff  as  he 
greeted massive crowds and moved even Government 
officials  to  tears  in  an  open  gallery;  but  nothing  was 
more  breathtaking  than  watching  him  entering  and 
being driven through the streets of New York in a tiny 
Fiat 500. It was a great metaphor for the times in which 
we are living, and a powerful lesson about some of the 
changes we must make to confront our rapidly changing 
future.
I felt a strange sense of solidarity with that small 
vehicle as I watched it cruise down the streets of New 
York, dwarfed by the humongous sport-utility vehicles 
surrounding it. It reminded me of the plight of the so-
called  developing  nations  in  our  relationships  with 
the  wealthier,  larger,  more  established  nations  of  the 
world. There is a sense of being protected, yet also of 
being  overpowered;  of  being  guided,  yet  intimidated 
to stay the course they are navigating. However, more 
than any of that, what struck me was the modernity of 
the moment. The survival of our planet depends on us 
coming to terms with such modernity. It requires us to 
redefine our relationship with nature and to realize that 
we  are  just  one  part  of  a  larger  ecosystem.  We  must 
finally realize that we are dependent upon nature, and 
not the other way around.
In  recent  years,  signs  of  transformation  in  Africa 
have generated great hope and very high expectations. 
Many African nations have embraced democracy, and 
free and fair elections have become a regular occurrence 
on the continent’s calendar. Several African nations are 
seeing accelerated economic growth, and a more than 
modest amount of success is being achieved in reducing 
hunger and poverty on the continent.
My  own  country,  Ghana,  has  benefited  greatly 
in  working  to  achieve  the  MDG  targets.  Ghana  is 
considered  one  of  the  bright  lights  of  Africa,  that 
place  that  was  once  derisively  referred  to  as  the 
dark  continent.  Our  nation  boasts  a  strong,  stable 
democracy,  with  an  economy  that  has  been  growing 
positively  for  more  than  two  decades.  While  we  are 
exposed to the current uncertainty in the international 
markets,  strong  cooperation  with  our  multilateral  and 
bilateral partners has led to positive movement towards 
fiscal consolidation. Moreover, our current agenda for 
transformation  is  aimed  at  diversifying  our  economy 
and accelerating growth. My Government is committed 
to  maintaining  strict  fiscal  discipline  in  order  to 
stabilize the macroeconomy and stimulate growth and 
business activity.
All  of  that  notwithstanding,  one  of  the  major 
constraints facing all of Africa is a shortage of electric 
power, and there Ghana is no exception. In many African 
nations, power outages resulting from shortfalls in power 
generation are even considered normal. In Ghana, two 
decades of consistent, positive growth has resulted in 
the demand for power outstripping supply. The resulting 
load  management  programme  has,  unfortunately, 
slowed growth, while taking a steep toll on economic 
and  social  life.  Small  and  medium-sized  enterprises, 
which can least afford the high cost of purchasing and 
operating  generators  to  back  up  their  power  supply, 
are being severely affected by that. We are pursuing a 
programme to introduce emergency generation so as to 
balance demand and supply. Looking forward, we plan 
to put an additional 3,500 megawatts of power into our 
transmission grid, utilizing the significant gas reserves 
that  we  have  discovered  in  our  offshore  concessions. 
That will be supplemented by renewable power, mainly 
from solar, biomass and wind sources.
The road ahead, not only for so-called developing 
nations like Ghana but for all nations, demands that we 
20/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
achieve energy sufficiency in a sustainable manner that 
does not further worsen the fragile environment of our 
planet.  In  December,  representatives  from  around  the 
world  will  meet  in  Paris  to  discuss  issues  of  climate 
change, the effects of which have become undeniable. 
The changes to our planet as a result of global warming 
are  apparent  for  all  to  see:  the  receding  glaciers  in 
temperate  climates,  the  reduction  in  rainfall  and  the 
advancing  deserts  in  Africa,  and  the  lakes  that  are 
virtually disappearing in the Middle East and Asia. All 
those  things  should  serve  as  a  wake-up  call  for  us  to 
take  drastic  and  immediate  action  to  save  our  planet 
and save humankind. We must curb our consumerism, 
not just out of respect for the environment but also in 
the  exercise  of  tolerance  and  the  mindful  practice  of 
coexistence.
is  an 
two  countries.  That 
Recently,  the  United  States  and  Cuba  have  taken 
significant  measures  to  normalize  relations  between 
their 
important  first 
step  towards  discarding  the  relics  of  the  Cold  War 
represented  by  the  economic  blockade  of  Cuba.  I  am 
also  encouraged  by  the  historic  agreement  between 
the  United  States  and  partners,  on  the  one  hand,  and 
Iran, on the other, to curtail the development of nuclear 
weapons in that country and encourage the peaceful use 
of  nuclear  technology.  That  gives  me  hope  that,  with 
dedication and focus, we can also resolve the seeming 
intractable  issue  of  Palestine.  Ghana  supports  a  two-
State  solution  to  that  conflict,  with  a  peaceful  and 
stable Israel in coexistence with a sovereign Palestinian 
State. To that end, we call for the immediate cessation 
of settlement construction in the Palestinian territories.
Seventy  years  from  now,  I  wonder  what  those 
looking back at this era will think of it. I wonder what 
they will think of us. When those millions and millions 
of girls and boys study our era and the events that are 
now shaping our world and lives, what will our actions 
or inactions say to them? What secrets of statecraft will 
they learn? And most important, what sort of world will 
the work that we are doing here today — the work of 
peace  —  produce  for  them  to  inherit?  It  is,  after  all, 
their history that we are holding right now in our hands. 
We cannot fail them.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of Ghana for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama,  President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Faure Essozimna Gnassingbé, 
President of the Togolese Republic
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Togolese Republic,
Mr. Faure Essozimna Gnassingbé, President of the 
Togolese Republic, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Faure 
Essozimna  Gnassingbé,  President  of  the  Togolese 
Republic, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
(spoke 
President  Gnassingbé 
in  French): 
Before  I  begin,  Sir,  allow  me  to  express  my  warmest 
congratulations  to  my  friend  John  Dramani  Mahama, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Ghana,  for  his  excellent 
statement.
I am pleased to address the Assembly as we embark 
upon a new phase in our long search for peace, security, 
development and shared prosperity. At the outset, allow 
me to express my warm congratulations to Mr. Mogens 
Lykketoft on his election to the presidency of the General 
Assembly at its seventieth session. I would also like to 
reiterate  our  full  appreciation  for  the  positive  efforts 
that  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  has  undertaken 
since assuming his post.
Ever since its founding, our Organization has fully 
engaged with States, regional organizations and citizens 
to promote peace and security and to progressively raise 
standards of living. I therefore salute the long path we 
have traveled together.
Since becoming a Member of the Organization, on 
20  September  1960,  my  country  has  made  the  values 
and priorities at the heart of the United Nations its own. 
Togo has striven with great determination to contribute 
to the triumph of the noble ideals of our Organization. 
In return, Togo has also received a great deal from the 
family of the United Nations. The most recent example 
of that fruitful cooperation goes back to the presidential 
election of 25 April. We will not forget that, throughout 
the  electoral  process,  Togo  benefited  from 
the 
multidimensional  support  and  attentive  interest  of  its 
friends and partners, in particular the United Nations 
Development  Programme  and  the  United  Nations 
15-29562
21/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
Office  for  West  Africa.  That  solidarity  was  a  source 
of  encouragement  to  us  and  provided  added  impetus 
for us to make the extra effort that the Togolese people 
expected  of  us  in  order  to  succeed  in  the  holding  of 
the  election.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express  the  deep  gratitude  of  the  Togolese  people  for 
that support.
Today,  the  Togolese  people  intend  to  build  fully 
on  that  success,  thanks  in  particular  to  our  political 
reforms,  which  seek  to  further  strengthen  democracy 
and our ability to work together in the pursuit of progress. 
In  that  regard,  fully  aware  of  the  stakes  involved  in 
ensuring peace and security in a just and fair society, 
Togo plans to make economic and social inclusion the 
priority in its strategy of national unity. The priority of 
priorities  for  Togo  is  to  advance  in  consolidating  the 
well-being of all its citizens, and thereby be able to play 
a  more  active  role  in  the  realization  of  our  new  post-
2015 development agenda.
Our  national  priorities  for  the  coming  years 
essentially  dovetail  with  our  new  commitments 
under  the  framework  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs).  The  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  with  its  SDGs  (resolution  70/1)  requires 
us to do a much better job than we were able to do in 
the past with the Millennium Development Goals. Even 
if  we  did  not  succeed  in  achieving  all  of  those  Goals 
within the agreed timetable, today we at least have the 
benefit of the experience, mistakes and successes of the 
past, which represent a huge capital on which to draw in 
order to better address the challenges before us.
At  a  time  when  we  are  deliberating  the  future  of 
international cooperation, I think that it is crucial for 
us not to forget the high price that we have just paid in 
tackling  the  Ebola  virus.  Since  I  was  supervising  the 
fight against that disease in the Economic Community 
of West African States — the epicentre of the outbreaks 
of that virus — I would like to take this opportunity to 
express  our  profound  gratitude  to  the  States,  regional 
organizations,  bilateral  and  multilateral  partners 
and  non-governmental  organizations  that  mobilized 
significant  resources  and  assisted  the  countries  most 
affected in various ways to stem the epidemic. I would 
also  like  to  salute  the  heroism  of  the  health-care 
personnel of various nationalities and communities who 
never abdicated their responsibilities, even when their 
lives were in danger. They saved lives and demonstrated 
our capacity to respond to extreme situations.
Finally, I would to express my sincere condolences 
for  all  of  those  who  gave  their  lives  in  attempting  to 
save  the  lives  of  others.  Ebola  has  claimed  lives, 
destroyed  communities  and  weakened  economies.  It 
is responsible for losses of approximately $2 billion in 
gross domestic product in the three countries affected. 
Today,  Ebola  has  been  weakened  but  has  not  been 
completely conquered. We must all remain vigilant, not 
only  to  eradicate  the  residual  hotbeds  of  that  disease 
but also to rebuild systems that are more resilient to the 
vulnerabilities and shocks to which we remain exposed. 
Such crises must not, however, prevent us from staying 
the  course  or  from  keeping  our  promises  to  achieve 
economic growth and social progress. I urge all of our 
partners  to  remain  active  and  committed,  including 
those in countries that have so far been spared.
While we can be pleased with the fact that economic 
growth  in  Africa  has  been  among  the  highest  in  the 
world in recent years, we must nevertheless note that, 
at the current pace, Africa will not be able to provide 
a massive number of jobs for its young people, nor to 
significantly reduce poverty. The need for accelerated, 
inclusive economic growth requires structured actions 
and  financing  that  go  far  beyond  our  traditional, 
financial architecture. For that reason, Togo hopes that, 
following the Addis Ababa Conference on Financing for 
Development, the community of donors will spare no 
effort to assist African countries, more constructively 
and with fewer restrictions, in their quest to diversify 
sources  of  financing  and  to  expand  their  domestic 
budgetary space.
In the same vein, at a time when we are seeking more 
appropriate mechanisms for financing development in 
Africa,  it  would  be  regrettable  if  cultural  values  that 
form the bedrock of African societies were sacrificed. 
That could jeopardize the results that have already been 
achieved. In that regard, pressure should no longer be 
brought  to  bear  on  our  States  to  force  them  to  adopt 
programmes and initiatives that would lead to cultural 
shocks. As the bishops of Africa said in their common 
declaration in June, we are concerned by the fact that 
aspects of the Sustainable Development Goals that are 
linked to sexual and reproductive health could be made 
the  conditionalities  for  the  granting  of  resources,  as 
the endorsement of such issues continues to be highly 
controversial in African societies.
The long and rich experience of the United Nations 
teaches  us  that  peace  and  security  are  at  the  same 
time  preconditions  and  elements  of  development. 
22/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
That  dual  requirement  must  be  fully  taken  into 
account in the strategies that we will have to develop 
to  effectively  implement  the  SDGs.  Togo,  whose 
economy  is  largely  dependent  upon  the  West  African 
hinterland,  knows  the  true  value  of  security  in  the 
African subregion. Combating the terrorist group Boko 
Haram  and  all  forms  of  extremism  and  racism  must 
continue relentlessly, with the help of the international 
community and in line with the values promoted by the 
United Nations. The shifts in power in that regard that 
we have been seeing throughout Africa in recent years 
do not correspond to any of the fundamental values of 
our continent. Togo expects to capitalize on what has 
been  achieved  through  the  reform  of  its  defence  and 
security system in order to better tackle new challenges 
and  threats.  We  can  never  stress  enough  how  crucial 
it  is  to  align  our  policies  in  the  areas  of  security,  the 
defence of human rights and environmental protection. 
The  environmental  dimension  of  crises  and  conflicts, 
the  impact  of  climate  change  in  exacerbating  poverty 
and the repeated threats to human rights during times 
of war are realities that we cannot conceal if we want 
to preserve stability in our States over the long term. 
That is why the Climate Change Conference to be held 
in Paris in December will be the first test of whether 
or not the sustainable commitments we have just made 
are sound.
Given the importance of what is at stake, it falls to 
us  to  adopt  a  binding  international  agreement  at  that 
Conference  that  will  improve  the  lives  of  millions  of 
people  throughout  the  world  by  taking  the  necessary 
measures  to  keep  climate  change  below  the  threshold 
of a 2°C rise in temperature. In Togo, unfortunately, we 
are already experiencing the effects of climate change 
every day, including coastal erosion, which amounts to 
a 10 to 12 metres annual advance of the sea, threatening 
our coastal populations. There are therefore immediate 
risks for the survival of those populations that require 
more  urgent  responses  and  significant  investments.  It 
is therefore crucial that future international financing 
aimed at combating the effects of climate change, and 
specifically  financing  that  will  make  its  way  into  the 
Green Fund, not come through a reduction in traditional 
official development assistance.
I would like to take this opportunity to recall that 
the  economic,  security  and  environmental  challenges 
connected with the seas and oceans will be addressed 
during  the  African  Union  Extraordinary  Summit  on 
Maritime  Security  and  Safety  and  Development  in 
Africa, which Togo will have the privilege of hosting 
next year. At that Summit, we hope to be able to adopt 
effective measures and make decisions that will enable 
us to work together so that the oceans and seas remain 
a major asset for the development of Africa.
After  70  years  of  peacekeeping  operations,  we 
must  acknowledge  that  such  operations  are  no  longer 
sufficient  to  ensure  the  effectiveness  of  our  actions 
when  faced  with  the  changing  nature  of  crises  and 
conflicts. It is for that reason that we must constantly 
innovate in order to adapt our responses to the current 
security challenges. In that regard, my country, which 
has  always  participated  in  peacekeeping  missions, 
welcomes  the  report  (A/70/95)  of  the  High-level 
Independent Panel on United Nations Peace Operations, 
which  was  established  by  the  Secretary-General  to 
assess  peacekeeping  operations.  Its  recommendations 
should  receive  our  full  attention.  My  country  also 
welcomes  the  holding,  two  days  ago,  of  the  summit 
meeting  on  peacekeeping  operations,  organized  by  a 
group of States at the initiative of the United States of 
America. That meeting sought to make more resources 
available for peacekeeping operations.
The magnitude of the challenges we are facing today 
requires  that  we  constantly  renew  our  commitment 
to  the  original  purposes  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is 
our  duty  to  preserve,  in  times  of  war  and  in  times  of 
peace, human dignity and to build a world based on the 
promotion and protection of human rights.
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  pay  well-deserved 
tribute  to  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights, which recently closed 
its office in Togo after having helped the Government, 
national institutions and civil society strengthen their 
capacities in the area of the protection and promotion of 
human rights. The eight years of cooperation that have 
just come to an end enabled Togo to make significant 
progress  in  the  area  of  human  rights.  We  intend  to 
relentlessly  pursue  our  efforts  in  that  area,  because 
we  are  firmly  convinced  that  a  society  in  which  the 
rights  of  the  individual  are  protected  and  guaranteed 
has  all  the  cards  it  needs  to  achieve  its  promises  of 
development  and  prosperity.  It  is  my  strong  desire 
that  the  multifaceted  cooperation  that  has  mobilized 
us in the great United Nations family can continue to 
be strengthened in all the areas in which it can enable 
human beings to progress more easily in solidarity and 
in sharing.
15-29562
23/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
With  that,  I  wish  a  happy  birthday  to  the  United 
Nations,  our  common  Organization,  and  renew  my 
wishes  for  success  in  its  future  actions.  Above  all,  I 
express the hope that the years to come can give us an 
opportunity  to  preserve  and  strengthen  our  collective 
commitment  to  the  ideals  of  peace,  security  and 
sustainable development.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Togolese 
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Faure Essozimna Gnassingbé, President of the 
Togolese Republic, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Majesty Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah 
Mu’izzaddin Waddaulah, Sultan and Yang Di 
Pertuan of Negara Brunei Darussalam
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Sultan and Yang Di Pertuan of 
Negara Brunei Darussalam.
His Majesty Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah Mu’izzaddin 
Waddaulah, Sultan and Yang Di Pertuan of Negara 
Brunei Darussalam, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the 
United  Nations  His  Majesty  Sultan  Hassanal  Bolkiah 
Mu’izzaddin Waddaulah, Sultan and Yang Di Pertuan 
of  Negara  Brunei  Darussalam,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah Mu’izzaddin Waddaulah: 
First of all, I would like to congratulate His Excellency 
Mogens Lykketoft on his election as the President of the 
General Assembly at its seventieth session and wish him 
much success. I also extend my thanks to the outgoing 
President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  for  his 
valuable contribution to the work of the Organization, 
as  well  as  my  best  wishes  for  his  future  endeavours. 
I would also like to commend Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon for his able leadership, as well as the United 
Nations  agencies  for  their  active  engagement  with 
Member States.
together 
It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  be  here  as  we 
commemorate 
the  seventieth  anniversary 
of  the  founding  of  the  Organization.  This  is  indeed  a 
historic occasion to celebrate our achievements, as well 
as to reflect on matters that require our urgent action.
The  existence  of  the  United  Nations  for  the 
past  70  years  is  a  testament  to  its  relevance.  It  has 
become  the  world  body  that  we  look  up  to,  our  point 
of  reference  on  all  aspects  of  humankind,  and  it  has 
no equal. It was established in 1945 in the wake of the 
mass  destruction  brought  about  by  the  Second  World 
War,  and  the  need  to  restore  peace  and  security  was 
its main focus. Today, its mandate has grown hugely to 
include emerging challenges and evolving threats, such 
as  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
climate  change,  pandemic  diseases  and  terrorism  and 
violent extremism. As part of a comprehensive global 
mandate,  it  has  also  been  tasked  with  addressing 
multidimensional socioeconomic matters.
We  recognize  that  the  United  Nations  is  not  a 
panacea  for  all  of  the  world’s  woes,  but  that  has  not 
diminished  its  overall  success.  On  that  note,  we 
commend the role played by all of the United Nations 
agencies  and  the  Organization’s  development  work 
aimed at improving people’s lives around the world.
One  profound  achievement  is  in  the  containment 
of  pandemic  diseases,  which  pose  serious  threats  to 
the  world’s  population.  In  1980,  the  World  Health 
Organization  succeeded  in  completely  eradicating 
smallpox  and,  more  recently,  it  worked  with  affected 
countries  to  contain  the  breakout  of  the  Middle  East 
respiratory syndrome and Ebola.
Over the years, we have seen how our humanitarian 
workers and peacekeepers risk their lives to carry out 
the work of the United Nations, with some losing their 
lives  in  the  course  of  their  noble  work.  Those  brave 
individuals will always deserve our highest respect for 
their  commitment  and  sacrifice  to  make  our  world  a 
safer place.
With a membership of 193 States, the expectations 
will  inevitably  be  high  for  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Organization  in  addressing  the  ever-increasing  issues 
that  affect  the  lives  of  the  people  we  represent.  I  am 
therefore pleased that our new post-2015 development 
agenda, contained in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (see  resolution  70/1),  embraces  most,  if 
not  all,  of  those  concerns.  Its  inclusiveness  signifies 
the  trust  and  faith  that  we  have  in  our  Organization. 
It  is  therefore  important  that  we  fulfil  our  national 
and  collective  responsibilities  to  implement  the  new 
Agenda and realize our peoples’ hopes and dreams for 
a better life.
24/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
In  1984,  Brunei  Darussalam’s  admission  into 
the  United  Nations  signified  a  global  endorsement 
of  its  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  as  a  fully 
independent  nation.  Since  then,  we  have  benefited 
extensively from that membership. The United Nations 
has  provided  us  with  a  platform  for  enhancing  our 
bilateral and multilateral relations with our friends and 
partners.  Through  the  United  Nations,  we  have  also 
been able to demonstrate our unwavering commitment 
to the maintenance of peace, stability and development. 
Brunei  Darussalam  firmly  believes  that  tolerance, 
compassion  and  social  harmony  have  been  essential 
for  the  lasting  peace  and  security  that  our  close-knit 
community has been enjoying to this day. Such values 
have been the foundation of our country’s stability and 
prosperity, which has provided an enabling environment 
for development.
In our region, the shared principles of the member 
States  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN), namely, territorial integrity, non-interference, 
consensus, the rule of law and good governance, guide 
our  efforts  to  achieve  closer  cooperation  for  peace, 
stability  and  prosperity.  That  national  and  regional 
experience  represents  our  contribution  to  the  United 
Nations  as  part  of  the  multilateral  process.  And  it  is 
through the United Nations that I envision the creation 
of a caring global community with similar values and 
principles  that  can  unleash  our  potential  to  work  and 
achieve  greater  things  together.  In  order  to  bring  us 
closer  together  and  foster  greater  understanding  and 
empathy  with  one  another,  we  should  nurture  more 
cultural  exchanges,  which  would  enable  us  to  live  as 
a  family  of  nations.  In  that  way,  we  might  be  able  to 
avert new conflicts and better utilize the resources of 
socioeconomic development.
According to the World Bank, the average cost of 
civil war is equivalent to more than 30 years of gross 
domestic product growth for a medium-size developing 
country.  The  cost  of  peacekeeping  during  and  after  a 
civil war is also extremely high and, above all, there is 
the loss of lives, which cannot be measured. Preventive 
diplomacy  is  therefore  a  cost-effective  means  of 
addressing conflicts, and certainly an integral part of 
conflict prevention efforts. It is a long-term process and 
a worthwhile investment, in which the United Nations 
has made some headway. We highly value the important 
work of the good offices of the Secretary-General, the 
Special  Envoys  and  the  resident  political  missions  as 
some of the key tools of preventive diplomacy. However, 
more can be done to enhance conflict prevention.
If we wish to move forward, the Secretary-General’s 
view — and I agree — is that we have to strengthen the 
partnerships between the United Nations and regional 
or subregional organizations. Such organizations have a 
unique influence and easy access to crisis situations in 
their respective regions, and the United Nations should 
be  able  to  leverage  that  strength  to  defuse  tension 
before it escalates into conflicts. Through the ASEAN 
Regional  Forum,  ASEAN  member  States,  along  with 
other member participants, have long worked together to 
create an atmosphere of trust and confidence. Two years 
ago, they adopted a workplan on preventive diplomacy, 
and  its  implementation  has  made  significant  progress 
and contributed towards the maintenance of peace and 
security in the region. I wish to take this opportunity 
to  thank  the  United  Nations  for  providing  coaching 
and  training  programmes  to  help  ASEAN  implement 
that plan. I believe that our Organization is in the best 
position  to  promote  the  necessary  cooperation  and 
partnerships  based  on  mutual  respect,  understanding 
and  tolerance,  which  can  prevent  wars  and  conflicts, 
religious persecution, violent ideological confrontation 
and terrorism.
Since  our  last  gathering,  we  have  witnessed  the 
tragic loss of life caused by inhumane terrorist acts in 
various parts of the world. Such acts are unacceptable, 
and we join others in condemning terrorism and in totally 
rejecting  extremism  and  radicalism.  We  reiterate  our 
support for all efforts by the international community 
to prevent and eliminate all forms of terrorism. In that 
regard,  we  also  support  intercultural  dialogue  among 
peoples of different religions, cultures and initiatives, 
such  as  the  United  Nations  Alliance  of  Civilizations, 
the Global Movement of Moderates, the King Abdullah 
Bin  Abdulaziz  International  Centre  for  Interreligious 
and  Intercultural  Dialogue,  World  against  Violence 
and Violent Extremism, and the Summit on Countering 
Violent Extremism.
It  is  crucial  that  we  address  the  root  causes  of 
terrorism  and  extremism  in  a  comprehensive  manner. 
We  need  to  ensure  that  irresponsible  parties  do  not 
exploit the despair and suffering of others to fuel their 
own extremist agendas. That is why we need to resolve 
the  plight  of  our  Palestinian  brothers  and  sisters,  an 
issue  that  remains  at  the  core  of  the  conflict  in  the 
Middle  East.  For  over  60  years,  Palestinians  have 
struggled  to  achieve  self-determination.  A  lasting 
15-29562
25/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
peaceful solution is long overdue. In that regard, I am 
pleased  to  see  that  Palestine  has  been  accepted  as  a 
member in various international bodies. That has been 
reflected  in  the  General  Assembly’s  historic  decision 
to  allow  the  flag  of  Palestine  to  fly  proudly  with  the 
flags  of  other  sovereign  and  independent  nations  of 
this  world  body.  Those  are  all  positive  developments 
that  should  contribute  to  obtaining  the  recognition  of 
Palestinian statehood.
I  wish  to  reiterate  our  commitment  to  continuing 
to work with others to ensure that the United Nations 
remains a strong force for peace, security and human 
rights.  After  all,  the  success  of  our  Organization  lies 
in our own collective efforts, which constitute the true 
strength of this Organization.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Sultan  and  Yang  Di 
Pertuan  of  Negara  of  Brunei  Darussalam  for  the 
statement he has just made.
His Majesty Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah Mu’izzaddin 
Waddaulah, Sultan and Yang Di Pertuan of Negara 
Brunei Darussalam, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, President of the 
State of Palestine
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the State of Palestine.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of  the  State  of 
Palestine, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, President 
of the State of Palestine, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President Abbas (spoke in Arabic): I come before 
the  General  Assembly  today  from  Palestine  to  sound 
the  alarm  concerning  the  grave  dangers  of  what  is 
happening in Jerusalem, where extremist Israeli groups 
continue with their systematic and repeated incursions 
into the Al-Aqsa Mosque. Those incursions are aimed 
at imposing a new reality and at temporarily dividing 
Haram Al-Sharif by allowing extremists  — under the 
protection  of  Israeli  occupying  forces,  Ministers  and 
Knesset members — to enter the Mosque. In so doing 
at specified times, they prevent the access of Muslim 
worshipers from freely exercising their religious rights. 
The Israeli Government is pursuing that plan in direct 
violation of the status quo of 1967. The occupying Power 
is thus committing a grave mistake, because we will not 
accept such actions. The Palestinian people refuses to 
accept the implementation of an illegal plan that is an 
affront to the sensitivities of Palestinians and Muslims 
throughout the world. I call on the Israeli Government, 
before it is too late, to end the use of brutal force aimed 
at  desecrating  the  Islamic  and  Christian  holy  sites  in 
Jerusalem, and, in particular, to halt its actions directed 
against  the  Al-Aqsa  Mosque,  for  such  actions  will 
transform the conflict from a political to a religious one 
and create an explosive situation in Jerusalem, as well 
as in the rest of the occupied Palestinian territory.
It  is  my  honour  to  come  to  speak  on  behalf  of 
the  State  of  Palestine  in  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventieth session, which coincides with the seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations,  which  has  made 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  international  peace 
and  security  and  the  preservation  of  human  rights  its 
primary goals.
The question of Palestine was one of the first just 
causes brought before the United Nations, dating from 
the  time  of  its  inception.  Yet,  to  date,  regrettably,  it 
remains unresolved. The Organization and its Members 
remain  unable  to  end  the  injustice  inflicted  upon  our 
people  or  to  assist  it  in  exercising  its  right  to  self-
determination and freedom in its own independent and 
sovereign State.
I ask the Assembly to reconsider the history of the 
question  of  Palestine  and  the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions  in  order  to  realize  a  self-evident  truth.  A 
historic  injustice  was  inflicted  upon  a  people  who 
had  lived  peacefully  in  their  land  and  made  genuine 
intellectual, cultural and humanitarian contributions to 
humankind and their homeland. That people does not 
deserve to be deprived of its homeland, to die in exile, 
to be swallowed by the sea or to spend its life fleeing 
from one refugee camp to another. Yet, regrettably, its 
just cause remains at a standstill after these many years.
Our people have placed their hopes in the countries 
of this Organization to help them to gain their freedom, 
independence  and  sovereignty,  so  that  their  wish  and 
their  right  to  their  own  State,  which  is  the  aspiration 
of  all  peoples  of  the  Earth,  can  be  achieved.  That 
entails  a  just  solution  for  the  Palestine  refugee  issue 
26/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
in  accordance  with  resolution  194  (III)  and  the  Arab 
Peace Initiative. Is that too much to ask?
is democracy? Where is the democratic State that lays 
claim to democracy and the rule of law?
We are calling for justice, peace and what is right. 
Palestine  was  partitioned  into  two  States,  and  Israel 
was  established  67  years  ago.  But  the  second  part  of 
resolution  181  (II),  of  29  November  1947,  still  awaits 
implementation.  Palestine,  which  is  an  observer  State 
in  the  United  Nations,  deserves  full  recognition  and 
full  membership.  In  the  light  of  all  the  enormous 
sacrifices  that  we  have  made,  our  years  of  patience 
in exile and suffering, and our acceptance of peace in 
accordance  with  the  two-State  solution,  which  should 
be  based  on  international  law,  the  relevant  United 
Nations resolutions, the Arab Peace Initiative and the 
Quartet road map, it is unconscionable that the question 
of  Palestine  has  remained  unresolved  for  all  these 
decades.
The  continuation  of  the  impasse  is  unacceptable, 
because it means yielding to the logic of the brute force 
that is being inflicted upon us by the Israeli Government. 
That  Government  continues  its  illegal  settlement 
expansion  in  the  West  Bank,  especially  in  occupied 
East  Jerusalem.  It  continues  its  blockade  of  the  Gaza 
Strip, deepening the immense suffering of our people 
there, in defiance of United Nations resolutions and the 
agreements  signed  by  both  sides  under  international 
auspices. In that regard, we recall the words of the late 
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin in 1976, when he 
stated  that  Israel  would  become  an  apartheid  State  if 
it continued its occupation of Palestinian territory. He 
described the Israeli settlements on Palestinian land as 
a cancer. That is what Yitzhak Rabin said. Why do they 
do that to us?
The  persistence  of  the  issue  forces  us  to  ask  the 
following  questions.  Do  the  votes  of  democratic 
countries  against  Palestine-related  resolutions  and 
the  legitimate  rights  of  our  people  serve  peace  and 
the  interests  of  those  who  believe  in  the  two-State 
solution?  Or  do  they  serve  and  encourage  extremists, 
thereby  fanning  their  hatred  and  racism  and  making 
them believe that they are above the law, to the point 
that they committed the crime of burning a Palestinian 
family in the town of Duma in the West Bank, a crime 
which claimed the lives of an infant, Ali Dawabsheh, 
his father and mother? What is left of this family is an 
orphan child, Ahmed, a 4-year-old, who teeters between 
life and death in hospital as a result of his burns, while 
the killers remain free because they have not yet been 
arrested.  Where  is  justice?  Where  is  fairness?  Where 
This  was  not  the  first  crime  of  this  type.  On 
previous occasions, they had burned alive and killed a 
Palestinian child, Mohammed Abu Khdeir, in Jerusalem, 
and another, Mohammed Al-Dura, in Gaza, and before 
them thousands had been killed in Gaza and the West 
Bank. We still remember the Deir Yassin massacre of 
1948 and all other crimes committed against our people. 
All of these crimes have gone unpunished. Until when 
will Israel remain above international law and without 
accountability?
Owing  to  time  constraints,  I  shall  not  be  able  to 
discuss in detail how many Israeli violations have been 
committed against our people and how many repressive 
laws have been issued by successive Israeli Governments, 
the  latest  of  which  is  the  official  governmental 
instructions given to fire live ammunition at and arrest 
and repress peaceful Palestinian demonstrators. Why is 
this happening?
We do not respond to the hatred and brutality of the 
Israeli  occupation  with  hatred  and  brutality.  Instead, 
we  are  working  to  spread  the  culture  of  peace  and 
coexistence between our peoples and in our region. We 
are eager to see the day when our people and all peoples 
in  our  region  will  enjoy  peace,  security,  stability  and 
prosperity.  This  cannot  be  achieved  with  continued 
occupation,  settlement,  colonization,  the  wall,  the 
burning  of  people,  places  of  worship  and  homes,  the 
killing  of  youth,  children  and  infants,  the  burning  of 
crops,  and  the  arrest  and  detention  of  people  without 
charge or trial.
How  can  a  State  claim  that  it  is  an  oasis  of 
democracy  and  that  its  courts  and  security  apparatus 
function  according  to  the  law  and  yet  also  accept  the 
existence of so-called price-tag gangs and other known 
terrorist organizations that terrorize and intimidate our 
people, confiscate their property and insult their holy 
sites? All of this occurs under the watch of the Israeli 
army and police, who do not deter or punish the gangs, 
but rather provide them with protection.
Is  it  not  time  to  end  these  injustices?  Is  it  not 
time to stop this suffering? Is it not time for the racist 
annexation wall to be torn down? Is it not time for the 
humiliating  and  degrading  checkpoints  and  barriers 
set up by the Israeli occupying forces in our land to be 
removed? Is it not time for the Israeli blockade imposed 
on  the  Gaza  Strip  to  be  lifted  so  that  our  people  can 
15-29562
27/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
move  in  freedom  and  dignity  in  their  own  homeland 
and beyond? Is it not time to end the racist, terrorist, 
colonial settlement of our land, which is undermining 
the  two-State  solution?  Is  it  not  time  for  the  6,000 
Palestinian prisoners and detainees in Israeli jails to see 
the light of freedom and live among their families and 
communities? Is it not time for the longest occupation 
in history, which is suffocating our people, to come to 
an end? These are the questions we ask the international 
community.
Despite  all 
imposed  by 
the  obstacles 
the 
occupation, since the establishment of the Palestinian 
National  Authority  and  until  this  moment,  we  have 
worked tirelessly to build the foundations of our State, 
its  infrastructure  and  sovereign  national  institutions. 
We have made real progress on the ground, as has been 
affirmed by several international bodies, in particular 
the United Nations, the World Bank and the International 
Monetary  Fund.  With  the  support  of  our  brothers 
and  friends,  we  will  continue  our  efforts  and  work 
together  to  strengthen  our  State,  which  is  committed 
to  upholding  international  standards,  the  rule  of  law 
and transparency as a democratic and modern State. In 
this context, we highly value the efforts of the Ad Hoc 
Liaison Committee, under Norway’s chairmanship, and 
urge  donor  countries  to  continue  to  support  a  better 
life for our people and our efforts to develop our State 
institutions.
Our  membership  in  international  organizations 
and  our  accession  to  treaties  and  conventions  are  not 
directed  against  anyone;  rather,  they  are  a  measure 
aimed at safeguarding our rights, protecting our people, 
harmonizing  the  laws  and  regulations  of  our  country 
with  international  standards,  and  strengthening  its 
international legal status and identity. Is this a mistake?
With  respect  to  the  internal  Palestinian  situation, 
we are determined to preserve the unity of our land and 
our people. We will not accept temporary solutions or 
a fragmented State. We will not allow this to happen, 
and we will not let those who are trying to make us do 
this prevail. We will instead seek to form a Government 
of  national  unity  that  functions  according  to  the 
programme  of  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization, 
and we will proceed to hold presidential and legislative 
elections.
Palestine is a country of holiness and peace. It is the 
birthplace of Christ, the messenger of love and peace, 
and  the  home  of  the  Isra  and  Mi’raj,  the  ascension  to 
heaven  and  night  journey  of  Mohammed,  peace  be 
upon him, who was sent as a gift of mercy to the world. 
Palestine is still looking for peace, and its people want 
to live in their homeland in safety, security, harmony, 
stability  and  good  neighbourliness  with  all  peoples 
and countries of the region. This is attested to by their 
cultural,  humanitarian  and  spiritual  contributions  to 
humankind all along, from the start.
Just recently, on 17 May, two nuns from Palestine, 
Marie-Alphonsine  Ghattas  and  Mariam  Baouardy, 
were canonized as saints by His Holiness Pope Francis 
at the Vatican in the presence of tens of thousands of 
the  faithful  from  around  the  globe.  On  that  occasion, 
the flag of Palestine was raised at the Vatican, whose 
recognition of the State of Palestine is documented in 
the  agreement  signed  between  the  Holy  See  and  the 
State  of  Palestine.  It  is  our  hope  that  those  that  have 
not yet recognized us as a State will do so as soon as 
possible.  We  look  forward  to  seeing  the  independent 
State  of  Palestine  take  its  rightful  place  among  the 
community  of  nations.  We  are  confident  that  it  will 
actively contribute to achieving the economic, cultural 
and humanitarian progress of civilization, with positive 
results for our people, the region and the entire world.
Peace  will  be  achieved  by  and  through  Palestine. 
Those who wish to seek and promote peace, I repeat, 
those who wish to seek and promote peace and to fight 
terrorism,  should  start  by  resolving  the  question  of 
Palestine. That is the beginning and the end of it.
I take the opportunity to express, on behalf of my 
people, our thanks to all those who, on 10 September, 
voted  in  favour  of  resolution  69/320.  Its  adoption  has 
enabled us to raise the Palestinian flag at United Nations 
Headquarters. The day is not far off when, God willing, 
we will raise the Palestinian flag in East Jerusalem, the 
capital of the State of Palestine.
I wish also to pay tribute to various recent decisions 
in  European  parliaments.  Some  of  these  have  clearly 
condemned  Israel’s  settlement  activities  and  affirmed 
the  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  sovereignty  and 
independence in their own State, side by side with the 
State of Israel — which we recognize even though Israel 
does  not  recognize  our  existence  —  and  some  have 
established a committee on relations with Palestine. A 
number of European countries have also affirmed their 
recognition of the State of Palestine, thereby endorsing 
our  natural  right  to  independence.  In  that  regard,  we 
wish to thank the Kingdom of Sweden for having the 
28/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
courage of its convictions and recognizing the State of 
Palestine.
All  who  say  they  support  the  two-State  solution 
must recognize both States, not just one. If one supports 
the two-State solution, how can one not recognize the 
other State? Today I call on those countries that have 
not yet recognized the State of Palestine to do so. We 
are fully confident that they will do so out of conviction 
that  our  people  and  cause  are  deserving  of  justice. 
From this rostrum at United Nations Headquarters and 
against the backdrop of the religious holidays, I extend 
a sincere call on the people of Israel for peace based on 
justice, security and stability for all. I also call on the 
Security Council and the General Assembly to shoulder 
their  responsibilities  before  it  is  too  late.  I  sincerely 
hope  that  they  will  fulfil  their  responsibilities  before 
it is too late.
All  those  present  are  well  aware  that  Israel  has 
undermined  the  efforts  of  the  Administration  of 
President  Barack  Obama,  and  mostly  recently  the 
efforts undertaken by Secretary of State Kerry, to reach 
a peace agreement by means of negotiation. The polices 
and practices of the Israeli Government and the stances 
adopted  by  its  Prime  Minister  and  Cabinet  Ministers 
lead to a clear conclusion, namely, that they are doing 
their utmost to sabotage the two-State solution that we 
have been seeking based on resolutions of international 
legitimacy. There can be no other explanation.
We welcome the international and European efforts, 
including the French initiative calling for the formation 
of an international support group on achieving peace. 
The Arab States, at their recent summit, confirmed their 
support  for  a  Security  Council  resolution  to  reaffirm 
the  key  parameters  for  a  peaceful  two-State  solution, 
based  on  the  pre-1967  borders,  with  a  time  frame  for 
ending the occupation.
As  it  is  pointless  to  waste  time  negotiating  just 
for the sake of it, what we require now is to mobilize 
international  efforts  and  establish  a  framework  to 
oversee  an  end  to  the  occupation,  in  line  with  the 
resolutions  of  international  legitimacy.  Until  that  is 
done, I appeal to the United Nations, and particularly 
the Secretary-General and the President of the General 
Assembly,  to  provide  international  protection  for  the 
Palestinian  people  in  accordance  with  international 
humanitarian  law.  We  need  protection  —  we  need 
international  protection.  We  cannot  maintain 
the 
status quo. We are being assailed on all sides. Acts of 
aggression are being committed against us on all sides. 
We  have  no  protector.  Our  last  resort  is  the  United 
Nations.  We  are  therefore  appealing  to  the  Assembly, 
we  are  begging  the  Assembly,  to  provide  us  with 
international protection.
We  have  tried  to  bring  pressure  to  bear  on  Israel 
to  implement  the  signed  agreements  and  to  negotiate 
in  conformity  with  the  two-State  solution  through 
direct contact with the Israeli Government. Yes, we do 
maintain direct contact with the Israeli Government, as 
well  as  indirect  contact  through  the  United  States  of 
America, the Russian Federation, the European Union 
and the United Nations, the Quartet members and other 
parties.  However,  the  Israeli  Government  persists  in 
undermining the two-State solution and in entrenching 
two  regimes  on  the  ground:  the  current  apartheid 
regime  imposed  on  the  State  of  Palestine  and  against 
the  Palestinian  people,  on  the  one  hand,  and  another 
regime of extensive privileges and protection for Israeli 
settlers,  on  the  other  hand.  Our  occupied  Palestinian 
territory reflects two systems: the apartheid system and 
the other system that extends extensive privileges to the 
Israeli  settlers.  How  is  that  possible?  In  what  way  is 
it admissible? That is the question that we pose to the 
United Nations.
The transitional Oslo accords and annexes and the 
subsequent  accords  signed  with  Israel  stipulated  that 
the  agreements  should  be  implemented  within  a  time 
frame of five years, which ended in 1999. What was the 
outcome to be? It was to be full independence for the 
State of Palestine and the end of the Israeli occupation. 
But  Israel  stopped  withdrawing  its  forces  from  the 
areas classified as “B” and “C”, which represent more 
than 60 per cent of the West Bank territory, including 
East Jerusalem. Instead, Israel intensified its settlement 
activities  everywhere,  in  breach  of  all  of  the  signed 
accords,  some  of  which  were  signed  by  the  current 
Israeli Prime Minister.
In 2009, in his speech in Cairo, President Obama 
called for the cessation of the settlement activities. What 
was the response on the part of Israel? The Government 
increased its settlement activities by at least 20 per cent 
in  the  West  Bank  and  East  Jerusalem,  thus  violating 
its obligation not to undertake any illegal or unilateral 
action that could be considered permanent. Moreover, 
the occupying Power has repeatedly encroached on the 
area classified as “A”, which is supposed to be under full 
Palestinian security jurisdiction and in which we have 
15-29562
29/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
established the institutions of the Palestinian State. Let 
me repeat that, yes, Israel has also violated that area.
that  control 
At  the  same  time,  Israel  refuses  to  review  the 
economic  agreements 
the  ability  of 
the  Palestinian  economy  to  develop  and  become 
independent.  It  is  determined  to  impose  dominance 
on  the  Palestinian  economy,  similar  to  its  military 
and security dominance, and it rejects the right of the 
Palestinian people to development and to the exploitation 
of  their  natural  resources.  In  so  doing,  Israel  has 
undermined the foundations on which the political and 
security agreements are based. Those agreements have 
also been eroded by the measures taken by successive 
Israeli  Governments,  measures  that  have  negated  the 
transitional  phase  leading  to  the  independence  of  our 
State. All these gross violations of the agreements have 
made the situation intolerable.
Given that background, we declare that as long as 
Israel  refuses  to  commit  to  the  agreements  it  signed 
with  us,  thereby  ensuring  that  we  are  a  pro  forma 
authority  without  real  powers,  and  as  long  as  Israel 
refuses to cease its settlement activities and to release 
the fourth group of Palestinian prisoners in accordance 
with our agreements, Israel leaves us no choice but to 
assert that we will not remain the only ones committed 
to the implementation of those agreements, while Israel 
continuously violates them.
We therefore declare that we cannot continue to be 
bound by those agreements and that Israel must fully 
assume all its responsibilities as an occupying Power, 
because the status quo cannot continue and the decisions 
of  the  Palestinian  Central  Council  last  March  are 
specific and binding. As long as Israel does not commit 
to the signed agreements and instead undermines them 
all, we, for our part, renounce our commitment to those 
agreements, and Israel must bear full responsibility for 
the situation. This is a decision taken by the Palestinian 
Parliament,  and  I  affirm  it  right  here  and  now.  Our 
patience has run out. It seems that Israel is deaf to the 
truth. Israel will have to resume its role as an occupying 
Power and bear its responsibilities accordingly.
The  State  of  Palestine,  based  on  the  4  June  1967 
borders  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  is  a  State 
under  occupation.  Yes,  we  are  under  occupation,  just 
as many countries were during the Second World War. 
It should be noted that our State is recognized by 137 
States,  which  is  four  times  the  number  of  States  that 
recognized Israel at its foundation, and the right of our 
people to self-determination, freedom and independence 
is  recognized  globally  as  being 
inalienable  and 
indisputable. I further recall resolution 67/19 of 2012, 
which  accorded  to  Palestine  observer  State  status 
and  reaffirmed  that  the  Executive  Committee  of  the 
Palestine Liberation Organization would be the interim 
Government  of  the  State  of  Palestine  and  that  the 
Palestine  National  Council  would  be  the  Palestinian 
Parliament of the State of Palestine. Given all that, why 
does Israel not recognize the State of Palestine?
implementing 
I  must  reiterate  that  the  current  situation  is 
the 
unsustainable.  We  shall  start 
declaration I have just announced by legal means. We 
shall not resort to violence; we shall use peaceful and 
legal means to implement it. Either the Palestine National 
Authority  will  be  a  transitional  power  and  move  the 
Palestinian  people  from  occupation  to  independence, 
or  Israel  must  fully  bear  its  responsibilities  as  the 
occupying Power.
At the same time, and based on our commitment to 
the principles of international law, the State of Palestine 
will continue to accede to international conventions and 
to join organizations — all international organizations. 
That  is  our  right  and  is  fully  in  line  with  our  status 
under  international  law.  Palestine  will  move  forward 
in the defence of its people under occupation through 
all  available  legal  and  peaceful  means,  including  as 
a  High  Contracting  Party  to  the  Geneva  Conventions 
of  1949  and  a  State  party  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 
International Criminal Court. Yes, Palestine is a State 
party to the International Criminal Court. Those who 
fear  international  law  and  international  courts  should 
stop committing crimes. We do not like having to seek 
justice  from  the  International  Criminal  Court,  but 
aggression  forces  us  to  do  so.  We  will  seek  support 
from  all  international  organizations,  including  the 
International Criminal Court.
All 
that  notwithstanding,  my  hand 
remains 
outstretched for the just peace that will guarantee my 
people’s  rights,  freedom  and  human  dignity.  I  say  to 
our  neighbours,  the  sons  and  daughters  of  the  Israeli 
people, that peace is in their interest and in our interest 
and in the interest of their future generations and our 
future generations. Maintaining a narrow viewpoint is 
unhelpful and destructive. Focusing only on oneself is 
unhelpful  and  destructive.  It  is  my  sincere  hope  that 
those neighbours will consider the dangerous reality on 
the  ground  and  look  to  the  future  and  accept  for  the 
Palestinian  people  what  they  accept  for  themselves. 
30/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
Then, they will find that the achievement of peace will 
be possible, and they will enjoy security, safety, peace 
and stability. These values are the aspirations that we 
also seek to realize for our Palestinian people.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the State of 
Palestine for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of  the  State  of 
Palestine, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Ahmet Davutoğlu, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Turkey
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Turkey.
Mr.  Ahmet  Davutoğlu,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Turkey, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ahmet  Davutoğlu, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, and inviting 
him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Davutoğlu  (Turkey):  I  bring  warm  greetings 
and  hope  that  the  seventieth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly will prove most fruitful.
I would like to congratulate Mr. Mogen Lykketoft 
on his assumption of the presidency. I would also like 
to extend my sincere appreciation to Mr. Sam Kutesa 
for  his  time  and  efforts  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at the sixty-ninth session.
Seventy  years  ago,  our  Organization  was 
created  —  in  the  words  of  former  Secretary-General 
Dag Hammarskjöld — “not to take mankind to heaven, 
but  to  save  humanity  from  hell”.  Looking  back,  the 
United  Nations  has  been  instrumental  in  averting 
another and even deadlier world war. But it has failed to 
prevent people from suffering the pains of hell in many 
regional conflicts, including those of Bosnia, Rwanda 
and, over the past four years, Syria.
The tragic story of 3-year-old Aylan should serve 
as  a  reminder  of  what  the  United  Nations  should 
stand for. Just earlier this month, Aylan’s tiny, lifeless 
body washed ashore after the boat he was on capsized 
in  the  Aegean.  His  family  was  trying  to  escape  the 
indiscriminate barrel bombs in his town somewhere in 
Syria, to an imagined land of hope anywhere in Europe. 
The  Turkish  policeman  who  found  Aylan  said  that  he 
felt not like an officer on duty, but like the little boy’s 
father,  helplessly  holding  his  beloved  son.  Indeed, 
Aylan was our baby; he belonged to each and every one 
of us and to all humankind. From the moment that we 
found  him,  washed  ashore  and  lifeless,  we  were  each 
plunged into the misery of our own conscience.
We  human  beings  are  not  merely  blank  pages  in 
the book of history. We are all capable of both the best 
and the worst. This is a simple but powerful fact of our 
existence that can make us bring our best to the fore. We 
must join our efforts, no later than today, to effectively 
deal  with  the  increasingly  complex  and  tragic  facts 
facing humanity. For its part, Turkey has assumed more 
than its fair share of the burden. Providing protection to 
more than 2 million Syrians and 200,000 Iraqis, Turkey 
now  shelters  the  largest  number  of  refugees  in  the 
world. Our doors will remain open. We embrace those 
fleeing war and persecution. So far, we have invested 
almost $8 billion, of which international contributions 
account for a mere $417 million. To date, 66,000 Syrian 
babies  have  been  born  in  Turkey.  Some  9  million 
medical consultations and 280,000 surgical operations 
have been provided to our Syrian refugee population. 
Currently,  230,000  school-age  Syrian  children  are 
receiving a formal education and 460,000 more will be 
integrated into our education system by the end of the 
year.
The  number  of  would-be  illegal  migrants  who 
have drowned in the Mediterranean Sea has reached a 
staggering 6,000.Meanwhile, 55,000 seaborne migrants 
have been rescued by the Turkish Coast Guard, while 
235,000  illegal  entrants  have  been  intercepted  by 
Turkish law enforcement agencies since 2011. More than 
4 million Syrians have fled chemical weapons, missiles 
and  indiscriminate  aerial  bombardment  by  the  Assad 
regime and ground assaults by the terrorist organization 
Daesh. And more than 12 million internally displaced 
persons, almost half of them children, are in desperate 
need of help.
This tragedy will not end before the people of Syria 
have  a  legitimate  Government  that  truly  represents 
their will and enjoys their full consent. Until then, the 
international  community  must  act  swiftly  to  protect 
them  in  their  homeland,  including  by  creating  a  safe 
zone  beyond  the  reach  of  aerial  bombardment  by  the 
15-29562
31/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
regime and ground assault by Daesh and other terrorist 
organizations.  Anyone  hoping  to  solve  the  Syrian 
crisis  must  think  of  a  Syria  without  Assad,  a  vicious 
tyrant who indiscriminately kills his own people with 
chemical  weapons  and  barrel  bombs.  Every  minute 
he  remains  in  power  adds  to  the  shame  of  those  who 
support  him.  As  the  world  must  realize,  a  diplomatic 
solution  to  the  crisis  should  be  based  on  a  transition 
that will lead to political change. Turkey will continue 
to work towards that end.
People may no longer hear the voices of the 300,000 
who have lost their lives so far. But last week I met with 
representatives  of  the  thousands  who  dared  to  walk 
hundreds  of  miles  to  Edirne,  Turkey,  the  last  stop  on 
their journey to their imagined land of hope in Europe. 
I promised to bring their voice to the world community. 
I  have  fulfilled  my  promise,  yet  our  responsibility 
remains.
Indeed,  it  was  with  that  sense  of  responsibility 
that  we  proposed  the  inclusion  of  item  130,  “Global 
awareness  of  the  tragedies  of  irregular  migrants  in 
the  Mediterranean  basin  with  specific  emphasis  on 
Syrian asylum-seekers”, in the agenda of the seventieth 
session.  Our  proposal  was  accepted  by  the  General 
Assembly  on  18  September.  We  will  therefore  have 
the  chance  to  look  at  viable  responses  to  the  migrant 
tragedy in the form of partnerships between countries 
of origin, destination and transit. That is now a priority 
matter for all humankind.
The  people  of  Syria  are  not  the  only  ones  to 
suffer.  The  Palestinian  tragedy  continues  unabated. 
In my address to this body on 29 November 2012 (see 
A/67/PV.44),  I  called  on  the  international  community 
to  stand  in  solidarity  with  the  Palestinians  in  their 
bid  for  their  own  independent  State,  for  which  they 
have  been  calling  for  more  than  60  years.  Today,  we 
finally  witness  and  salute  the  Palestinian  flag  flying 
at  full  mast  at  the  United  Nations  alongside  those  of 
all  other  States.  That  constitutes  another  significant 
step towards enabling the parties to come together on 
an  equal  footing  at  the  negotiating  table  in  a  process 
aimed at achieving an equitable and sustainable peace.
The State of Palestine will be independent today or 
tomorrow, and East Jerusalem, Al-Quds Al-Sharif, will 
be its capital, As President Mahmoud Abbas just said, 
the Palestinian flag will be raised in Al-Quds Al-Sharif 
soon,  and  we  will  be  there  to  celebrate  that  event 
together.  All  Muslims  and  Christians  and  all  nations 
will  freely  gather  there.  The  city  of  Al-Quds  matters 
for the whole of humankind. It is a city that is sacred to 
Islam, Judaism and Christianity, and should be treated 
accordingly.  The  expansion  of  illegal  settlements 
and  the  violations  targeting  the  holy  sites,  Al-Haram 
Al-Sharif and the Al-Aqsa Mosque in particular, must 
immediately  and  unconditionally  stop,  if  we  are  to 
talk about a peace process. The holiness of Al-Haram 
Al-Sharif  must  be  respected.  We  strongly  reject  and 
condemn  attempts  to  establish  a  temporal  and  spatial 
division  of  Al-Haram  Al-Sharif,  which  is  in  clear 
violation of international law.
Members  have  just  heard  the  statement  of  His 
Excellency  President  Abbas.  For  us  too,  Palestine  is 
an indivisible whole, consisting of East Jerusalem, the 
West Bank and Gaza. The right of Palestinians to live 
together as one must be recognized. As an integral part 
of  the  State  of  Palestine,  Gaza  should  be  freed  from 
the  illegal  and  inhumane  blockade  of  the  past  eight 
years. Turkey’s commitment to providing the necessary 
political and economic support for the Palestinians to 
lead a dignified life will continue.
The  current  vacuum  created  on  our  southern 
borders as a result of the crisis in Syria has played into 
the hands of terrorists, who also target Turkey. This is a 
threat that has the potential to spread to the whole region 
and beyond. Terrorism has no justification. It should be 
condemned  unconditionally.  Any  attempt  to  affiliate 
terrorism with any religion or ethnic group is patently 
misguided  and  serves  only  to  strengthen  the  terrorist 
threat.  Today,  as  in  the  past,  Turkey  is  combating 
terrorism of all kinds, Daesh and the Kurdish Workers 
Party included. Our counter-terrorism efforts and our 
contribution to international cooperation to that end are 
well known to our partners. Daesh is a product of the 
vacuum created by the crisis in Syria. Fighting Daesh 
therefore means removing the conditions that created it. 
Hence, we will never succeed until Al-Assad goes. We 
dream  of  a  new  democratic  multicultural  Syria,  both 
without  Al-Assad  and  without  Daesh.  We  expect  our 
allies,  partners  and  friends  to  continue  to  clearly  and 
publicly  display  their  support  for  and  solidarity  with 
Turkey in its fight against all types of terrorism.
The issue of foreign terrorist fighters is of utmost 
concern. According to United Nations figures, 25,000 
foreign terrorist fighters are believed to be coming from 
over 100 countries. This threat needs to be addressed at 
its source. Enhancing international cooperation in terms 
of information exchange is crucial, but deficiencies in 
32/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
this  regard  unfortunately  continue.  For  our  part,  we 
have  included  more  than  20,000  individuals  in  our 
no-entry list since 2011 and have deported more than 
2,000  who  are  intending  to  reach  conflict  regions 
beyond our borders or are returning from them.
From  Libya  and  Yemen  to  Ukraine,  from  South 
to  North  and  from  East  to  West,  the  global  security 
environment  is  fragile.  At  a  time  of  such  volatility, 
particularly  in  our  region,  Turkey  resolutely  assumes 
responsibility in global issues, to the best of its abilities 
and  within  its  means.  Turkey  has  become  a  leading 
actor and a trustworthy partner with $3.5 billion dollars 
of official development assistance. We see a clear link 
between sustainable economic development and global 
stability.  One  way  to  ensure  this  is  through  inclusive 
economic  growth  where  no  one  in  our  societies, 
including  women  and  the  vulnerable,  is  left  behind. 
Today,  half  of  the  world’s  population  lives  on  a  daily 
income of under $2.50, and close to 20,000 children die 
every day of hunger and poverty. Turkey, as the current 
President  of  the  Group  of  20  (G-20)  since  December 
2014,  has  highlighted  the  importance  of  international 
cooperation, coordination and solidarity in addressing 
global  uncertainties  and  risks.  We  have  placed 
inclusiveness and overcoming inequality at the top of 
the G-20 agenda.
Our generation has witnessed the highest number 
of  refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons  since 
the  Second  World  War.  The  great  majority  of  today’s 
humanitarian  crises  are  conflict-related.  The  global 
humanitarian  system  is  running  out  of  funds  and 
affected people are running out of time. While Turkey 
hosts  currently  the  largest  number  of  refugees  in  the 
world, it also holds the Chair of the Global Forum on 
Migration  and  Development.  Our  overarching  theme 
is:  “Strengthening  Partnerships:  Human  Mobility  for 
Sustainable  Development”.  Our  key  priorities  include 
promoting  the  positive  linkages  between  migration 
and development. It is high time that we addressed the 
complex humanitarian agenda in a holistic manner, with 
a  special  emphasis  on  the  humanitarian-development 
nexus.  We  therefore  look  forward  to  hosting  the  first 
ever  World  Humanitarian  Summit  in  Istanbul  from 
23 to 24 May next year.
Cultural  divides  will  rob  us  of  our  future  if  we 
allow them to. The current conflicts around the world 
demonstrate  the  spread  of  hatred,  discrimination  and 
extremism.  These  crises  result  in  the  segregation  of 
people  with  specific  ethnic  or  religious  backgrounds, 
they  also  hinder 
and 
tolerance,  coexistence  and 
harmony among civilizations. We must avoid alienation, 
exclusion  and  the  vilification  of  certain  communities 
and religions if we want to bring down the walls that 
divide  us.  We  must  act  together  against  all  forms 
of  racism  and  xenophobia,  including  Islamophobia, 
without exception. Only then can we collectively fight 
against  extremism,  radicalization  and  terrorism  in  an 
effective manner. We must encourage inclusiveness and 
democratic  legitimacy,  and  must  respect  the  people’s 
will and consent.
We cannot condone the prioritization of oppressive 
security  vis-à-vis  universal  rights  and  freedoms  that 
we have collectively undersigned at the United Nations. 
Our differences may remain, yet our collective abilities 
to  overcome  the  divides  must  be  strengthened.  The 
United  Nations  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  a  project 
initiated  nearly  10  years  ago  jointly  by  Turkey  and 
Spain, aims to provide lasting solutions in that respect. 
There  are  many  ways  to  respond  to  unfounded  fear, 
mistrust  and  hatred  in  societies  and  among  nations. 
Conflict  is  one.  But  there  is  a  peaceful  means  of 
preventing and resolving conflicts: mediation. Turkey, 
together  with  Finland,  launched  the  Mediation  for 
Peace initiative at the United Nations five years ago. It 
has attracted considerable interest and yielded tangible 
results in heightening awareness of the importance of 
the peaceful resolution of conflicts.
We wish to see a political solution to the crisis in 
Ukraine based on Ukraine’s territorial integrity and the 
principles  of  the  Minsk  agreements.  Any  solution  to 
this conflict should also ensure the rights and security 
of the Crimean Tatars.
In  terms  of  peace,  security  and  prosperity  in 
our  entire  neighbourhood, 
the  South  Caucasus 
has  a  prominent  place.  That  region,  regrettably, 
continues  to  be  destabilized  and  weakened  by  three 
major  unresolved  conflicts  in  the  greater  area  of  the 
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. 
We are determined to continue our efforts to facilitate 
a peaceful resolution to these conflicts on the basis of 
respect  for  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of 
the Republic of Azerbaijan and the inviolability of its 
internationally  recognized  borders.  The  same  applies 
to Georgia, where we support unity, territorial integrity 
and sovereignty. We welcome the recent steps towards 
normalization and permanent stability in the Balkans. 
We therefore appreciate the progress made so far in the 
Belgrade-Pristina dialogue.
15-29562
33/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
Turkey is a part of Europe, historically and currently. 
On  the  basis  of  shared  universal  values,  it  continues 
to  work  towards  its  strategic  objective  of  becoming  a 
member of the European Union. We believe that today 
Europe needs Turkey more than ever to strengthen its 
security and prosperity.
Expanding  relations  and  cooperation  with  Africa 
has become an important pillar of Turkey’s multifaceted 
foreign  policy,  which  puts  special  emphasis  on 
humanitarian diplomacy. We will continue to share our 
experience  and  knowledge  with  our  African  partners 
and  friends  on  the  basis  of  mutual  benefit  and  in 
accordance  with  the  principle  of  African  solutions  to 
African challenges.
In  Asia,  Turkey  has  been  an  integral  part  of  the 
international efforts aimed at achieving a lasting peace 
and stability in Afghanistan. We firmly believe that the 
international  community  must  continue  its  support  to 
Afghanistan.
As I near the end of my remarks, I wish to draw the 
Assembly’s attention to our continuing commitment to 
a  just,  comprehensive  and  lasting  solution  in  Cyprus. 
It  must  be  based  on  the  political  equality  of  the  two 
peoples  and  their  equal  ownership  of  the  island.  We 
expect  a  lasting  settlement  to  be  reached  as  soon  as 
possible. And we support the efficient and constructive 
efforts of the Turkish Cypriot side to that end.
As the world population grows and is expected to 
reach  10  billion,  the  international  community  stands 
at the threshold of a critical period. Despite our many 
achievements,  our  need  for  a  free,  peaceful,  stable, 
prosperous and just world continues. The road ahead for 
peace security and human rights will be paved with our 
good intentions. But most likely, our best intentions will 
not be sufficient to respond to the mounting challenges 
before  us.  We  need  a  paradigm  shift.  The  United 
Nations, as the ultimate global institution representing 
the vision of peace, must remain relevant and effective 
in coping with all the major challenges. Some of those 
challenges have already brought new tragedies upon us. 
Over the past 70 years, both the world and the United 
Nations have changed and evolved. However the change 
in the United Nations is not yet comprehensive enough 
to make it fully fit for purpose. Despite the major steps 
taken so far to adapt the Organization to the new global 
realities,  any  reform  will  remain  incomplete  unless  it 
includes the Security Council.
Seventy years ago, the founders of the Organization 
entrusted  it  with  the  task  of  protecting  the  dignity, 
security  and  prosperity  of  all  humankind.  That  task 
today  requires  the  ability  to  take  firm  and  decisive 
action  against  atrocities  committed  everywhere  by 
aggressors  and  oppressors.  The  inability  to  do  so  not 
only  will  jeopardize  the  lives  of  millions  affected  by 
ongoing  crises,  it  will  threaten  all  future  generations 
by  calling  into  question  the  credibility  of  the  United 
Nations system. The responsibility to reach the broadest 
possible consensus on comprehensive reform to render 
the Security Council more democratic, representative, 
inclusive,  transparent,  effective  and  accountable  falls 
upon us all. We owe it not only to future generations but 
to the visionary founders of the Organization.
So,  to  add  to  Secretary-General  Hammarskjöld’s 
vision  of  the  United  Nations  as  saving  humankind, 
what now befalls this institution is the task of salvaging 
our shared future.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Turkey for his statement.
Mr.  Ahmet  Davutoğlu,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Turkey, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of the 
People’s Republic of Bangladesh
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the People’s 
Republic of Bangladesh.
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  Her  Excellency  Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  Bangladesh,  and 
inviting her to address the General Assembly.
Sheikh  Hasina  (Bangladesh)  (spoke  in  Bangla; 
English text provided by the delegation): Let me extend 
my  heartiest  felicitations  to  Mr.  Lykketoft  on  his 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its seventieth session. I also commend His Excellency 
Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  for  his  excellent  leadership  of  the 
Assembly during its previous session.
This  year  is  a  transformative  one  for  the  United 
Nations and the world at large; it marks the seventieth 
34/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the  global  body.  Our 
forefathers were inspired to establish the Organization 
based on the clear recognition that we share a common 
destiny. Since its inception, the United Nations has made 
remarkable  strides  in  advancing  peace  and  security, 
human  rights  and  development.  Seventy  years  on,  it 
continues to inspire the shared dreams and aspirations 
of all humankind.
This is a critical year for sustainable development. 
The  third  International  Conference  on  Financing 
for  Development  in  Addis  Ababa  and  the  recently 
concluded  United  Nations  Summit  on  the  post-2015 
development agenda here in New York have ushered in 
new hope for the peoples of the world. With our drive 
to achieve a meaningful climate change agreement in 
Paris  this  year,  we  hope  to  transform  our  future  by 
ending poverty, limiting climate change and preserving 
our planet.
Two  global  challenges  pose  the  greatest  threat  to 
the sustainability of human civilization. First, terrorism 
and  violent  extremism  remain  major  impediments 
to  global  peace  and  development.  Terrorists  do  not 
subscribe  to  any  religion.  Terrorism  and  violent 
extremism are global challenges. All countries should 
unite to effectively address those challenges.
I,  myself,  am  a  victim  of  terrorism  and  violent 
extremism.  My  father,  the  father  of  the  nation, 
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and my mother, 
Begum  Fazilatunnesa  Mujib,  and  three  brothers,  as 
well as other close relatives, were brutally assassinated 
on  15  August  1975.  I,  myself,  have  been  subjected  to 
terrorist  attacks  at  least  19  times.  My  Government, 
therefore, maintains a zero-tolerance policy for all forms 
of  terrorism,  violent  extremism  and  radicalization. 
We  remain  steadfast  in  tackling  the  extremist  and 
anti-liberation forces that remain active in their aim to 
destroy  the  democratic,  progressive  and  secular  ethos 
of our nation.
Secondly,  climate  change  poses 
formidable 
development challenges. We will be unable to sustain 
our  development  endeavours  without  effectively 
addressing climate change. The new 2030 development 
agenda  makes  it  clear  that  all  our  actions  need  to  be 
underpinned by a strong commitment to protecting and 
preserving  our  planet,  biodiversity  and  climate.  With 
only a small window of opportunity, we must succeed 
in  setting  the  world  on  a  safer,  greener  and  more 
prosperous course.
We  realize  that  regional  cooperation  is  critical 
in  fostering  sustainable  development  and  achieving 
peaceful, stable societies. Bangladesh has taken the lead 
in building regional cooperation processes such as the 
South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, the 
Bay  of  Bengal  Initiative  for  Multi-Sectoral  Technical 
and Economic Cooperation and the Bangladesh-China-
India-Myanmar Economic Corridor. We have also taken 
the  initiative  of  developing  infrastructure  to  enhance 
trade and people-to-people contacts in relations among 
Bangladesh, Bhutan, India and Nepal.
Today we are witnessing unprecedented migration 
and  human  mobility  that  is  reshaping  history  and 
geography.  Migration  has  been  recognized  as  a 
key  enabler  of  development  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). Cooperation 
among  our  countries  is  essential  if  we  are  to  harness 
the full potential of migration. With that objective, we 
have  decided  to  lead  the  Global  Forum  on  Migration 
and Development in 2016.
Over  the  years,  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding 
have  emerged  as  United  Nations  flagship  activities. 
Bangladesh  is  proud  to  be  associated  with  those 
endeavours  as  a  leading  troop-contributing  country. 
Our valiant peacekeepers have so far made their mark 
in  54  peacekeeping  missions  in  40  countries.  We 
have  the  distinction  of  having  the  highest  number  of 
female police personnel participating in United Nations 
peacekeeping  missions.  Our  contribution  to  United 
Nations peace operations has made us a reliable partner 
in United Nations peace initiatives.
Development  efforts  in  many  of  our  countries 
over the past 15 years have been largely guided by the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The  overall 
progress  made  in  implementing  the  MDGs  inspired 
us  to  adopt  a  bigger,  bolder  and  more  ambitious  set 
of  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs).  Given  the 
ambition  reflected  in  the  SDGs,  we  surely  will  need 
to scale up the mobilization of resources from public, 
private,  domestic  and  international  spheres.  It  is 
essential  that  developed  countries  fulfil  their  official 
development  assistance  commitment  of  0.7  per  cent 
of gross national income to developing countries, and 
0.2 per cent to the least developed countries. We also 
need  to  address  the  challenges  faced  by  developing 
countries 
sound 
technology.  Without  such  technology  transfers  and 
capacity-building, I am afraid that many development 
goals and targets will never be achieved.
environmentally 
in 
accessing 
15-29562
35/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
Over  four  decades  ago,  the  father  of  our  nation, 
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, in his maiden 
speech  before  the  General  Assembly,  envisioned  “the 
building of a world order in which the aspiration of all 
men for peace and justice will be realized” (A/PV.2243, 
para. 2) and freedom from poverty, hunger, exploitation 
and aggression. That clarion call continues to guide our 
development pursuits and engagement in global affairs. 
We continue to transform Bangladesh into a land where 
the rule of law and social justice prevail over poverty, 
inequality,  impunity  and  exclusion.  I  have  presented 
the  Vision  2021  initiative,  towards  a  middle-income, 
knowledge-driven  economy  in  what  we  are  calling  a 
“digital Bangladesh”. With our steady progress so far, 
I am confident that we will soon realize the dream of 
the  father  of  the  nation  of  building  sonar  Bangla,  or 
“golden Bangladesh”. 
Bangladesh  is  widely  recognized  today  as  a  role 
model  for  the  developing  world.  We  have  one  of  the 
fastest  poverty  reduction  rates  in  the  world,  despite 
a  modest  resource  base;  our  poverty  rate  has  fallen 
from  56.7  per  cent  in  1991  to  22.4  per  cent  today. 
Bangladesh  has  already  met  or  is  on  track  to  meet 
MDGs  1,  2,  3,  4,  5  and  6.  During  the  past  six  years 
years,  our  average  gross  domestic  product  growth 
has remained at about 6.2 per cent, despite the global 
recession; from 2005 to 2015, our export earnings have 
increased more than threefold; during the same period, 
foreign  currency  reserves  have  jumped  by  a  factor  of 
7.5, from $3.5 billion to $26 billion. Moreover, during 
the  same  period,  Bangladesh  has  graduated  from  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  low  human 
development  category  to  the  medium  category,  and 
from the World Bank’s lower-income country status to 
lower-middle income.
We  realize  that  investments  in  human  capital 
that  target  our  large  youth  population  would  pay  rich 
dividends.  That  is  why  our  Government  has  placed 
particular  emphasis  on  education  and  health  care  for 
all. We now offer stipends to 13.4 million poor students 
enrolled in sixth grade to the undergraduate level and 
free  education  for  girls  up  to  the  higher  secondary 
level  in  order  to  address  the  challenge  of  student 
drop-outs. On the first day of this year, we distributed 
over  326.35  million  free  text  books  throughout  the 
country.  Since  2010,  nearly  1.59  billion  text  books 
have been distributed. This is perhaps the biggest such 
undertaking anywhere in the world. Our people living 
in rural areas receive over 200 services from over 5,275 
digital centres. They have access to health-care services 
through more than 16,500 technology-connected health 
complexes.
We have seen the visible results of women’s economic 
and political empowerment by promoting their greater 
access to productive resources and representation at the 
national and local levels. Likewise, we attach priority 
to addressing the needs and challenges of the various 
vulnerable  segments  of  our  population.  Our  lead  role 
in the United Nations promotion of the rights and well-
being  of  persons  affected  by  autism  and  other  neuro-
developmental  disabilities  arose  from  our  efforts  to 
build an inclusive society.
As we did during the MDG era, we would like to lead 
by example in implementing the SDGs in Bangladesh. 
Attaching due importance to the SDG framework, we 
are  currently  developing  the  next  five-year  plan  for 
2016-2020.  My  Government  is  determined  to  ensure 
that  no  one  is  left  behind  in  our  aspiration  to  build  a 
resilient, peaceful and prosperous society. We believe 
that  sustainable  development  cannot  be  achieved  in 
the absence of durable peace and security. We remain 
committed, as ever, to upholding peace and the rule of 
law  and  to  putting  an  end  to  the  culture  of  impunity. 
In that spirit, we are pursuing the perpetrators of war 
crimes,  crimes  against  humanity,  rape  and  genocide 
committed during our 1971 Liberation War. 
Mr. Cardi (Italy), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Our  Government  attaches  the  utmost  importance 
to preserving the religious harmony and tolerance that 
have  nurtured  our  social  fabric  throughout  the  ages. 
We have recently settled maritime and land boundary 
demarcations  and  related  issues  with  our  neighbours 
India and Myanmar. At the stroke of midnight on 31 July, 
we exchanged 162 enclaves with India, whereby more 
than  50,000  stateless  enclave  residents  obtained  their 
much-cherished citizenship. That brought to a peaceful 
end the lingering humanitarian situation of the enclave 
residents. By so doing, jointly with India, we have set a 
unique precedent for the rest of the world.
In that spirit, I urge the comity of nations to renew 
our collective resolve to achieve a peaceful, stable and 
prosperous  world  free  from  poverty  and  inequality, 
violence and extremism, climate change and conflict, 
and  oppression  and  injustice.  Let  us  demonstrate 
foresight,  moral  courage  and  political  leadership  in 
building a better life and brighter future for all of our 
36/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
children.  May  Bangladesh  live  forever!  Long  live  the 
United Nations!
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
People’s Republic of Bangladesh for the statement she 
has just made.
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Stefan Löfven, Prime Minister 
of Sweden
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Sweden.
Mr. Stefan Löfven, Prime Minister of Sweden, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Stefan  Löfven,  Prime 
Minister  of  Sweden,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
Mr. Löfven (Sweden): Sixty years ago, Secretary-
General  Dag  Hammarskjöld  said  these  simple  words, 
which summarize our task here today: 
“The  United  Nations  is  an  expression  of  our 
will to find a synthesis between the nation and the 
world ... to serve the world by serving our nation, 
and to serve our nation by serving the world.” 
We will never forget Dag Hammarskjöld’s life, and we 
welcome  the  new  resolution  69/246,  investigating  his 
death, but now more than ever, we need to ensure that 
his idea of international solidarity lives on.
The  current  refugee  situation  is  a  global  crisis,  a 
global  responsibility  and  now  also  a  global  crisis  of 
responsibility.  The  United  Nations  system  and  all  the 
world’s  leaders  need  to  come  together  to  ensure  that 
those fleeing war and repression are treated in a safe, 
orderly  and  dignified  way.  We  should  dramatically 
increase  the  number  of  resettlement  places,  expand 
legal avenues for migration and base all our efforts on 
the principle of non-refoulement and the right to seek 
asylum. It is extremely urgent that all the countries of 
the European Union treat people seeking refuge in the 
Union with a spirit of humanity, solidarity and shared 
responsibility.
Sweden  will  do  its  share.  We  are  the  largest  per 
capita  receiver  of  asylum  seekers  in  Europe  and  we 
are increasing our funding to the Office of the United 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which is in 
dire need of more resources. But that is something no 
country or continent can tackle alone. It is time for us 
all  to  step  up  to  solve  this  crisis.  It  is  not  simply  our 
task. It is our duty in the service of our nations and the 
world.
To  solve  the  current  crisis,  we  also  need  to  stop 
the  horrors  in  Syria.  Extrajudicial  executions,  sexual 
and  gender  violence,  and  atrocities  that  may  amount 
to  war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  cannot 
be  tolerated  by  the  international  community.  Sweden 
supports the efforts to secure humanitarian assistance 
for the Syrian people. We stand behind Special Envoy 
Staffan  de  Mistura  and  his  proposal  to  form  working 
groups  with  Syrian  participation  to  implement  the 
Geneva  communiqué  (S/2012/523,  annex).  To  support 
that  process,  we  want  to  see  an  international  contact 
group comprising key international and regional actors. 
And time is of the essence. The Security Council and 
its major Powers must shoulder their responsibility. The 
bloodbath must end.
Meanwhile, other conflicts cannot be forgotten. A 
seven-year-old child in Gaza has already lived through 
three  wars.  Peace  talks  need  to  be  resumed  so  that 
the  State  of  Israel  can  live  alongside  a  democratic, 
coherent  and  viable  Palestinian  State.  Sweden  has 
recognized  the  State  of  Palestine.  We  want  to  see  a 
more equal relationship that will pave the way for the 
two-State  solution  that  Israelis,  Palestinians  and  a 
broad international community view as the right path 
to peace. Sweden will also step up its efforts to promote 
peacekeeping and crisis management.
We are contributing civilian personnel to missions 
in South Sudan, Afghanistan, Liberia, the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  Middle  East,  and  we 
have  sent  military  personnel  to  the  United  Nations 
Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization  Mission 
in  Mali  and  the  Global  Coalition  to  Combat  the 
Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  the  Levant.  We  stand  ready 
to  contribute  to  future  United  Nations  missions  and 
are  continuing  research  on  developed  doctrines  and 
methods  for  peacekeeping  to  share  within  the  United 
Nations. 
Working  to  maintain  peace  also  means  following 
through  on  our  mutual  promises  of  disarmament, 
15-29562
37/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
to  pursue 
legal,  practical  and 
namely, 
technical 
solutions to fully rid our world of its remaining 16,000 
nuclear  weapons;  to  finally  destroy  what  remains  of 
other inhumane arms, such as biological and chemical 
weapons;  to  implement  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty;  and 
to  fight  the  spread  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons, 
including  ammunition.  If  we  sway  from  those  goals, 
humankind will suffer for our faults. 
If  peace  is  more  than  the  absence  of  war, 
peacebuilding  is  more  than  the  direct  prevention  of 
military  conflict.  Lack  of  resources,  rising  sea  levels 
and  natural  disasters  have  already  wreaked  havoc  on 
women  and  men  living  in  vulnerable  States.  Climate 
change  can  work  as  a  conflict  multiplier,  threatening 
peace  as  well  as  our  chances  to  achieve  all  our 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  We  need  a  course  of 
action to create a low-carbon and climate-resilient world 
economy. We must protect land and ocean ecosystems. 
That is not a choice; it is a necessity for our survival. 
The  world  must  therefore  reach  a  fair,  ambitious 
and  legally  binding  agreement  in  Paris  in  December 
that, over time, will hold the rise in global temperature 
below 2°C, to the extent possible. Sweden will play its 
part  by  becoming  one  of  the  first  fossil-free  welfare 
nations  in  the  world  and  having  no  net  emissions  of 
greenhouse gases by 2050. We will be strong financial 
supporters of the Green Climate Fund and international 
climate  action,  with  a  view  to  supporting  adaptation 
and transfer of technology on a global scale.
The  coming  decade  will  also  need  to  see  major 
investments  in  the  schooling,  higher  education  and 
professional  training  of  our  youth.  We  need  fair  and 
equal  societies,  where  the  just  contributions  of  those 
who have are used to finance the gift of knowledge and 
power to those who have not. That is a foundation for 
peace  that  is  too  precious  to  neglect.  Moreover,  it  is 
closely  connected  to  the  potential  of  gender  equality. 
Barring  women  from  power,  public  debate,  work  and 
education and depriving them of their human right to 
decide for themselves, including control over their own 
bodies, reproduction and sexuality — all that is a global 
disgrace. 
It is time once and for all to get rid of structures that 
discriminate  against  and  belittle  people,  on  whatever 
grounds.  It  is  time  to  fully  realize  Security  Council 
resolution  1325  (2000),  granting  women  their  crucial 
role in peace and State-building. It is time to see sexual 
violence as one of the most destructive weapons of all 
and  to  fight  it  with  the  full  force  of  the  international 
community.
New times also demand a new mindset. As several 
leaders of island countries have told me: “We are not a 
small island nation; we are a large ocean State”. To fully 
grasp the potential of the new world economy, we need 
to remove old colonial prejudice and false conceptions 
of large and small, North and South, East and West. We 
should  welcome  and  enhance  the  transformation  and 
expansion of the global economy through free and fair 
trade  and  create  a  global  deal  for  decent  work,  while 
working to free some 160 million child labourers and 
also to end modern slavery. Sweden is taking concrete 
measures  to  maintain  political  support  at  the  highest 
level  for  our  common  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1), and we will continue to 
allocate  0.1  per  cent  of  our  gross  national  income  to 
official development assistance. 
For  me,  words  that  are  not  followed  by  actions 
are not worth being spoken, but the challenges for the 
international  community  also  show  the  dire  need  for 
a  strengthened  and  reformed  United  Nations.  Sweden 
contributes  resources,  but  we  also  want  to  contribute 
reforms.  We  want  to  make  the  United  Nations  more 
effective, transparent and fit-for-purpose. We will work 
to strengthen cooperation between the United Nations 
and regional organizations, not least the African Union.
In  2017,  it  will  have  been  20  years  since  Sweden 
last held a seat on the Security Council. Over the years, 
we have stood by those fighting for independence and 
dignity  and  against  repression,  colonialism,  apartheid 
and inequality. We now seek Members’ confidence to 
champion  the  perspective  of  small  and  medium-sized 
States  as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council.  We  will  strive  tirelessly  for  a  Council  that 
can  respond  swiftly  to  the  security  challenges  of  our 
time  and  that  is  more  representative,  transparent  and 
effective.  A  reformed  Council  must  reflect  today’s 
realities, with adequate representation for Africa, Asia 
and Latin America. We also support efforts to limit the 
use of the veto.
Although  we  see  distress,  we  also  see  hope.  The 
agreement  on  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue  was  indeed  a 
victory for the idea of diplomacy. Shared efforts create 
shared progress. Our decision on the new Sustainable 
Development  Goals  will,  if  thoroughly  implemented, 
enable us to create another landmark in human history. 
And  the  upcoming  Climate  Change  Summit  in  Paris 
38/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
will give us the opportunity to act — late, but hopefully 
not too late.
Sweden  is  fully  committed  to  those  tasks.  We 
believe  that  international  solidarity  is  the  first  and 
foremost  foundation  for  shared  peace  and  prosperity. 
International cooperation is the only way to transform 
solidarity  into  substantial  change.  This  year  must  be 
the  essential  milestone  for  global  development  and 
for future generations. So let us create that milestone, 
serving our nations and serving our world.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Sweden 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Stefan Löfven, Prime Minister of Sweden, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Muhammad Nawaz Sharif, 
Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic 
of Pakistan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Islamic 
Republic of Pakistan.
Mr.  Muhammad  Nawaz  Sharif,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Muhammad  Nawaz 
Sharif,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Pakistan, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Sharif (Pakistan): We congratulate Mr. Mogens 
Lykketoft  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its the seventieth session. It acknowledges 
his distinguished career in public service. We share his 
commitment to building a more just and stable world. 
We  also  pay  tribute  to  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  for  his  able 
stewardship of the sixty-ninth session.
Seventy  years  ago, 
the  United  Nations  was 
created  from  the  ruins  of  the  most  devastating  war 
the world has ever witnessed. Its purpose was to build 
universal peace and prosperity on the basis of equitable 
principles,  cooperation  and  collective  action.  Despite 
the  constraints  of  the  Cold  War,  the  United  Nations 
served the international community as a beacon of hope, 
a repository of freedom, an advocate of the oppressed 
and a vehicle for development and progress. 
But  we,  the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations,  have 
not  succeeded  in  beating  arms  into  ploughshares  or 
promoting  universal  prosperity  and  larger  freedoms. 
Confrontation  between  major  Powers  has  returned  at 
a  time  when  many  parts  of  the  world  are  in  turmoil. 
Terrorism  is  spreading.  Poverty  and  deprivation  have 
yet  to  be  overcome.  Gross  violations  of  human  rights 
are  rampant.  We  are  witnessing  human  dislocation, 
with  refugees  and  forced  migrants  on  a  scale  not 
witnessed for over half a century. Our very existence is 
threatened by the wanton damage done to our planet’s 
life-sustaining systems.
Yet this is also a moment of opportunity. Today, our 
interdependent world possesses the financial, scientific 
and  organizational  capabilities  to  address  the  diverse 
and interrelated challenges that pose a common threat 
to all Member States. At the historic Summit held over 
the  weekend,  we  collectively  committed  ourselves  to 
achieving  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  with  a 
view to promoting equitable and inclusive development 
for  all  our  peoples.  The  real  challenge  remains  to 
mobilize  the  collective  political  will  and  resources  to 
ensure the comprehensive implementation of the Agenda 
we  have  solemnly  endorsed.  Pakistan  has  already 
initiated action on national goals to promote the post-
2015 development agenda. We are also creating a robust 
mechanism  for  the  monitoring  and  implementation  of 
these Goals and targets. 
Later  this  year,  in  Paris,  we  will  need  to  respond 
with common but differentiated responsibilities to the 
threat posed by climate change. Partisan interests must 
not  stand  in  the  way  of  an  ambitious  and  collective 
commitment to halting and reversing the damage done 
to our planet.
On the seventieth anniversary of the United Nations, 
we  should  strive  to  adapt  the  global  Organization 
to  respond  effectively  to  the  current  and  emerging 
challenges  that  confront  us  all.  Pakistan  supports  the 
comprehensive reform of the United Nations, including 
of  the  Security  Council.  We  need  a  Security  Council 
that  is  more  democratic,  representative,  accountable 
and transparent — a Council that reflects the interests 
of all Member States, in accordance with the principle 
of  sovereign  equality,  not  an  expanded  club  of  the 
powerful and privileged.
Peacekeeping has been one of the key responsibilities 
of the United Nations. Pakistan is proud of its historic 
and current role as a major troop-contributor. We regard 
15-29562
39/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
it  as  our  obligation  to  uphold  international  peace  and 
security.
international  community  must  redress 
The 
injustices against the Muslim people.
those 
Pakistan  is  the  primary  victim  of  terrorism.  We 
have lost thousands of lives, including those of civilians 
and  soldiers,  to  terrorist  violence.  The  blood  that  has 
been shed, including that of our innocent children, has 
reinforced  our  resolve  to  eliminate  that  scourge  from 
our  society.  We  will  fight  terrorism  in  all  its  forms 
and  manifestations,  irrespective  of  its  sponsors.  Our 
Operation  Zarb-e-Azb  is  the  largest  anti-terrorism 
campaign  against  terrorists  anywhere,  involving  over 
180,000  members  of  our  security  forces.  It  has  made 
substantial  progress  in  cleansing  our  country  of  all 
terrorists and will conclude only when our objective has 
been accomplished. The operation is complemented by 
an all-inclusive national action plan that encompasses 
police and security actions, political and legal measures, 
and  social  and  economic  policy  packages  aimed  at 
countering violent extremism.
The  global  threat  of  terrorism  cannot  be  defeated 
unless  we  address  its  underlying  causes.  Poverty  and 
ignorance are part of the problem. Extremist ideologies 
must  be  opposed.  But  the  narrative  of  the  terrorists 
must  also  be  countered  through  the  just  resolution  of 
the several instances of oppression and injustice against 
Muslims in various parts of the world. Unfortunately, 
some seek to use the global campaign against terrorism 
to suppress the legitimate right of occupied peoples to 
self-determination.
The rise and spread of terrorism across the Middle 
East  today  poses  unprecedented  security  challenges. 
Wracked  by  violence,  ethnic  and  sectarian  conflicts 
and  the  rise  of  Daesh,  several  countries  of  the  region 
are  today  a  vortex  of  conflict  and  instability.  Others 
are  being  sucked  into  the  quagmire.  The  tragedy  of 
Palestine has intensified. The accepted avenue for peace 
between  Palestine  and  Israel,  a  two-State  solution, 
appears  further  away  today  than  ever  before,  due  to 
the  intransigent  stance  of  the  occupying  Power.  Yet, 
as  I  speak,  the  proud  Palestinian  flag  is  being  raised 
just outside this Hall. We hope that that is just the first 
step. We look forward to welcoming Palestine as a full 
Member of the United Nations.
Muslims are suffering across the world. Palestinians 
and  Kashmiris  are  oppressed  by  foreign  occupation; 
minorities are persecuted; and there is discrimination 
against  Muslim  refugees  fleeing  persecution  or  war. 
We welcome the comprehensive nuclear agreement 
reached  between  Iran  and  the  P5+1,  which  shows 
what  diplomatic  engagement  and  multilateralism  can 
achieve, and augurs well for the peace and security of 
our region and beyond.
transformation  after 
Relations  between  Pakistan  and  Afghanistan 
the 
underwent  a  positive 
establishment  of 
the  National  Unity  Government 
in  Kabul.  In  response  to  a  request  from  the  Afghan 
Government, and with the support of the international 
community,  Pakistan  has  made  strenuous  efforts  to 
facilitate the process of Afghan reconciliation. Indeed, 
dialogue was opened between the Afghan Government 
and  the  Taliban,  which  was  an  unprecedented  first. 
Unfortunately,  certain  developments 
the 
process. Thereafter, militant attacks intensified, which 
we unequivocally condemn. Pakistan will persist in its 
endeavour  to  help  restart  the  dialogue  process  and  to 
promote peace and stability in Afghanistan. However, 
we can do so only if we receive the requisite cooperation 
of 
the  Afghan  Government.  Tensions  between 
Afghanistan  and  Pakistan  are  in  neither  country’s 
interest.  We  are  encouraged  that  the  international 
community,  including  the  major  Powers,  desires  the 
continuation of the peace process in Afghanistan.
stalled 
Pakistan greatly appreciates China’s proactive role 
in promoting peace and prosperity in Afghanistan and 
in our region. We welcome China’s vision of “One Belt, 
One  Road”.  The  China-Pakistan  economic  corridor 
announced  during  President  Xi  Jinping’s  visit  to 
Pakistan earlier this year will spur regional economic 
integration  and  bring  prosperity  to  the  entire  region 
and beyond. That is an inspiring model of South-South 
cooperation that should be emulated. We also welcome 
Russia’s  greater  focus  on  Asian  cooperation.  The 
Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization,  which  Pakistan 
will be joining this year as a full member, holds great 
promise for promoting regional connectivity.
its  dire  consequences 
The  history  of  South  Asia  is  one  of  missed 
opportunities.  Among 
is 
the  persistence  of  poverty  and  deprivation  in  our 
region.  Development 
first 
priority  and  has  underpinned  my  policy  to  build  a 
peaceful  neighbourhood.  Our  peoples  need  peace  to 
prosper.  Peace  can  be  achieved  through  dialogue,  not 
disengagement.
is  my  Government’s 
40/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
In 1997, when the composite dialogue was launched 
with  India,  our  two  countries  agreed  that  it  would 
encompass two principal items — Kashmir and peace 
and security — along with six other issues, including 
terrorism.  The  primacy  and  urgency  of  addressing 
those  two  issues  is  even  more  compelling  today. 
Consultations  with  Kashmiris,  who  are  an  integral 
part of the dispute, are essential to evolving a peaceful 
solution. Since 1947, the Kashmir dispute has remained 
unresolved.  Relevant  Security  Council  resolutions 
have  remained  unimplemented.  Three  generations  of 
Kashmiris have known only broken promises and brutal 
oppression. Over 100,000 have died in their struggle for 
self-determination.  That  is  the  most  persistent  failure 
of the United Nations.
When  I  assumed  office  as  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Pakistan  in  June  2013  for  the  third  time,  one  of  my 
first priorities was to normalize relations with India. I 
reached out to the Indian leadership to emphasize that 
our common enemy was poverty and underdevelopment. 
Cooperation,  not  confrontation,  should  define  our 
relationship.  Yet  today,  ceasefire  violations  along 
the  Line  of  Control  and  the  working  boundary  are 
intensifying, causing the deaths of civilians, including 
women  and  children.  Wisdom  dictates 
that  our 
immediate  neighbour  should  refrain  from  fomenting 
instability  in  Pakistan.  The  two  countries  should 
address and resolve the causes of tension and take all 
possible  measures  to  avert  further  escalation.  That  is 
why I wish to take this opportunity to propose a new 
peace initiative with India, starting with measures that 
are the simplest to implement.
First, we propose that Pakistan and India formalize 
and  respect  the  2003  understanding  for  a  complete 
ceasefire  on  the  Line  of  Control  in  Kashmir.  To  that 
end,  we  call  for  the  expansion  of  the  United  Nations 
Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan in order 
to  monitor  observance  of  the  ceasefire.  Secondly,  we 
propose that Pakistan and India reaffirm that they will 
not  resort  to  the  use  or  the  threat  of  the  use  of  force 
under  any  circumstances.  That  is  a  central  element 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Thirdly,  steps 
must be taken to demilitarize Kashmir. Fourthly, both 
countries  should  agree  to  an  unconditional  mutual 
withdrawal from the Siachen glacier, the world’s highest 
battleground.  Easing  threat  perceptions  through  such 
peace efforts will enable Pakistan and India to agree on 
a broad range of measures to address the peril posed by 
offensive and advanced weapons systems.
Pakistan neither wants, nor is engaged in, an arms 
race in South Asia. However, we cannot remain oblivious 
to the evolving security dynamics and arms build-up in 
our region, which obliges us to take essential steps to 
maintain our security. As a responsible nuclear-weapon 
State, Pakistan will continue to support the objectives 
of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. We have 
maintained  the  highest  standards  of  nuclear  security 
and established an effective regime to ensure the safety 
and security of our nuclear facilities and stocks. South 
Asia needs strategic stability and this requires serious 
dialogue  to  achieve  nuclear  restraint,  conventional 
balance and conflict resolution.
Finally, we look forward to playing our part to build 
a brighter era of peace and prosperity in South Asia. We 
owe it to our people and to succeeding generations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Muhammad  Nawaz  Sharif,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
Address by Ms. Erna Solberg, Prime Minister 
of Norway
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Norway.
Ms. Erna Solberg, Prime Minister of Norway, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Erna  Solberg,  Prime 
Minister  of  Norway,  and  inviting  her  to  address  the 
Assembly.
Ms.  Solberg  (Norway):  The  United  Nations  is 
now  70  years  old.  At  the  start  of  the  meeting  in  San 
Francisco  where  the  United  Nations  Charter  was 
drafted, President Truman said “You members of this 
conference are to be architects of the better world. In 
your  hands  rests  our  future.”  And  he  was  right.  The 
United  Nations  Charter  has  served  humanity  well  for 
70  years.Despite  many  challenges,  there  have  been 
important milestones: decolonization, the establishment 
of the universal human rights system, the Millennium 
Development Goals, and a reduction in the number of 
inter-State wars.
15-29562
41/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
Unfortunately,  as  we  celebrate  these  70  years, 
the  forces  of  disorder,  discrimination,  violence  and 
disruption  are  on  the  rise  again.  International  law, 
universal  norms  and  human  rights  are  being  violated 
by  States  and  non-State  actors  alike.  One  of  the 
consequences is the massive refugee crisis that we are 
seeing, with 60 million refugees and displaced people.
All States benefit from a global legal order where 
right  prevails  over  might.  One  of  the  most  important 
rules of the new world order created in 1945 is respect 
for  internationally  recognized  borders.  This  basic 
principle has been blatantly violated in Europe during 
the last couple of years, and Europe’s security landscape 
has been changed. We must return to a situation where 
all States abide by their obligations under international 
law.
The  four  most  serious  humanitarian  crises  in 
the  world  are,  in  fact,  political  crises.  Power  hungry 
politicians,  armed  groups  and  military  leaders  have 
ignored  the  plight  of  their  peoples  in  the  countries 
concerned:  South  Sudan,  Yemen,  Syria  and  Iraq. 
When  State  authorities  ignore  the  rule  of  law  or  fail 
to live up to their human rights obligations, the result 
is  often  conflict  and  chaos.  The  regional  and  global 
consequences of these crises are far-reaching.
During the course of 2015, the United Nations has 
been  carrying  out  three  important  reviews  of  peace 
operations,  of  the  peacebuilding  architecture  and  of 
Security Council resolution 1325 (2000). These reviews 
will  be  important  tools  for  improving  our  work  on 
peace,  security,  human  rights,  mediation  and  conflict 
prevention.  We  must  ensure  that  the  United  Nations 
has  the  funding  and  the  political  backing  to  prevent 
political  exclusion  and  poor  governance.  Then  we 
will  be  better  able  to  prevent  armed  conflict  and  the 
resulting humanitarian crises.
The  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council 
have  a  particular  responsibility.  Norway  urges  all 
States  to  join  the  proposed  code  of  conduct  to  enable 
the  Security  Council  to  act  decisively  against  mass 
atrocities. We support the French initiative to suspend 
the use of veto in such situations. We will also step up 
our efforts to support United Nations peacekeeping and 
the capacity of the United Nations to prevent conflict.
The  flow  of  arms  to  conflict  areas  and  the  lack 
of  protection  for  civilians  further  increase  human 
suffering. The Arms Trade Treaty, with its humanitarian 
goals, gives us an important tool for addressing these 
problems.  The  Secretary-General  has  called  on  all 
parties  to  conflict  to  refrain  from  using  explosive 
weapons with wide-area effects in populated areas. We 
support his call.
At  the  Oslo  Conference  on  Safe  Schools,  we 
endorsed  the  Guidelines  for  Protecting  Schools  and 
Universities from Military Use during Armed Conflict. 
Some  49  countries  have  already  endorsed  the  Safe 
Schools Declaration. They have committed themselves 
to  protecting  education  from  attack 
in  conflict 
situations. We urge other countries to come on board.
We  see  progress  in  Iraq,  and  we  have  hope  for 
South Sudan. Norway is committed to supporting the 
transitional arrangements to help South Sudan out of its 
self-destructive conflict. The crisis in Syria started with 
peaceful protests calling for freedom. These were met 
with  a  violent  crackdown.  Upholding  human  rights  is 
one of the fundamental obligations of any Government. 
The exodus from Syria today is a direct consequence of 
the violence unleashed by the Government.
The  conflict  in  Syria  has  also  allowed  extremist 
terror groups like the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant 
(ISIL)  to  gain  a  foothold.  Now,  both  the  Government 
and  non-State  groups  such  as  ISIL  and  the  Al-Nusra 
Front are committing monstrous atrocities. The spread 
of these extremist groups needs to be stopped.
Norway will adhere to global norms in its response 
to the crisis. We are receiving refugees at our borders in 
line with the United Nations Convention relating to the 
Status of Refugees of 1951 and our international human 
rights  obligations.  We  have  agreed  to  take  in  a  high 
number of refugees from Syria’s neighbouring countries 
for  resettlement  under  United  Nations  quotas.  We  are 
taking part in the rescue efforts in the Mediterranean. 
We have already doubled our humanitarian aid to Syria 
and  the  region  this  year  and  we  will  increase  our  aid 
further.  We  will  be  hosting  a  donor  conference  in 
cooperation with Germany and the United Nations. 
When  leaders  fail  to  shoulder  their  most  basic 
responsibilities,  the  international  community  must 
make  use  of  the  tools  the  United  Nations  has  at  its 
disposal.  The  United  Nations  has  established  many 
global  standards.  Fifteen  years  ago,  the  Security 
Council  adopted  resolution  1325  (2000)  on  women 
and peace and security. It is a landmark resolution, but 
its  implementation  is  taking  too  long.  In  several  war-
ravaged  towns  in  Syria,  groups  of  women  are  calling 
for  a  ceasefire  and  evacuation.  They  do  this  at  great 
42/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
personal risk. Their bravery should inspire us. We must 
intensify  the  implementation  of  the  Security  Council 
resolutions on women and peace and security.
Seventy  years  ago,  we  set  out 
to  eradicate 
extremism.  The  fight  against  extremism  must  be 
maintained,  also  in  our  countries.  Extremism  is  once 
again  raising  its  head  in  different  shapes  and  forms. 
The ideology of disorder, discrimination, violence and 
disruption dominates the ideologies of ISIL, Al-Qaida 
and  their  various  affiliates.  International  cooperation 
at  all  levels  is  essential.  In  June,  Norway  hosted  a 
European conference on countering violent extremism, 
where  a  European  youth  network  was  launched.  The 
United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy will 
remain a cornerstone of our efforts. We also welcome 
the Secretary-General’s initiative in developing a new 
United Nations plan of action for this issue, and I would 
like to highlight the importance of including girls and 
women in the planning and implementation of efforts to 
counter violent extremism.
The  recently  adopted  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  are  another  example  of  the  important  role  the 
United Nations continues to play. We know that health 
and education are fundamental to inclusive growth and 
jobs.  Ebola  was  a  wake-up  call  for  us  all.  Education 
is  also  crucial  in  resolving  conflicts  and  rebuilding 
societies. However, we need to address the considerable 
financial gap in the field of education. A first step is the 
International  Commission  on  the  Financing  of  Global 
Education  Opportunities,  announced  at  the  recent 
Oslo Summit on Education for Development. Norway 
will double its investment in education for the period 
from 2014 to 2017. But sustainable development is not 
possible without respect for human rights. It is therefore 
vital to ensure that the human rights pillar of the United 
Nations  is  strong  and  assertive.  If  we  do  not  provide 
adequate funding for human rights efforts, we will not 
be able to achieve the results we want and need.
The United Nations should not be seen as a costly 
burden;  it  provides  win-win  solutions  for  all  Member 
States. I would like to highlight two areas where that is 
particularly clear. First, the United Nations Convention 
on the Law of the Sea has been called the constitution 
of  the  oceans.  It  provides  a  clear  framework  for  all 
activities  in  oceans  and  seas.  It  regulates  the  rights 
and duties of various States. And it should be used to 
the  full  in  order  to  help  to  decrease  tensions,  prevent 
conflict and find peaceful solutions. Secondly, climate 
change  is  a  fact.  The  Climate  Summit  to  be  held  in 
Paris  later  this  year  is  our  opportunity  to  shoulder 
our  responsibilities  and  take  action.  We,  the  Member 
States, must grasp that opportunity for the sake of our 
future as nations and as a global community.
We  can  be  the  generation  that  defeats  extreme 
poverty.  We  can  be  the  generation  that  prevents 
political crises from becoming humanitarian crises. We 
are  already  the  first  generation  to  experience  human-
made climate change. Let us also be the generation that 
halts climate change. And we can be the generation that 
finally realizes the right to education for all. With the 
Charter of the United Nations as our starting point, we 
must adapt our global norms to address new challenges. 
The  forces  of  disorder,  discrimination,  violence  and 
disruption  must  be  stopped.  The  United  Nations  is  a 
crucial arena for developing shared measures to address 
shared threats. We must use it to the full if we are to 
meet  the  threats  we  are  facing  today,  from  climate 
change to terrorism. We can thus ensure that the United 
Nations continues to serve humanity well for the next 
70  years.  Its  Member  States  can  still  be,  in  Truman’s 
words, the architects of a better world.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Norway for the statement she has just made.
Ms. Erna Solberg, Prime Minister of Norway, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Fiji
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Fiji.
Mr. Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Fiji, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Josaia  Voreqe 
Bainimarama, Prime Minister of the Republic of Fiji, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Bainimarama  (Fiji):  I  would  like  to  add 
my  congratulations  to  the  President  on  his  election 
to  those  of  the  leaders  who  have  spoken  before  me.  I 
wish him success in guiding the General Assembly at 
its  seventieth  session  to  a  productive  and  meaningful 
conclusion. I would also like to thank His Excellency 
Mr. Sam Kutesa for his outstanding leadership during 
the sixty-ninth session.
15-29562
43/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
Last year, I addressed the Assembly on the heels of 
an election victory in Fiji (see A/69/PV.15). I said that 
Fiji was now a fairer, more just and more compassionate 
society,  and  that  we  would  accelerate  our  efforts  to 
alleviate  poverty,  thanks  to  a  rapidly  strengthening 
economy. Today I am proud to assure the Assembly that 
our  democracy  is  working,  our  economy  is  growing 
and we are gradually lifting more people out of poverty 
every day. This is not an experiment. It is a very real 
and revolutionary change in the way we Fijians govern 
ourselves and treat one another.
I will not say that it has been easy, because it has 
not.  But  we  have  had  one  year  of  the  give-and-take 
of  parliamentary  democracy  based  on  a  common  and 
equal citizenry, under a Constitution that values every 
Fijian equally, regardless of ethnicity, birthright, faith, 
gender, social condition or geography. That is a first. In 
the past, we had elections; today, we have elections that 
do not result in the tyranny of the majority. Things have 
been raucous at times, as we have battled over ideas and 
exchanged  accusations  on  the  floor  of  Parliament,  in 
the media and before the public. Democracy sometimes 
seems messy, chaotic and prone to petty squabbles, but 
it is a price that we Fijians gladly pay for the chance to 
enjoy its many blessings.
As  is  natural,  our  society  is  now  also  more 
compassionate and our economy more robust. We have 
carried out wide-ranging social and economic reforms 
designed to free the energies of our people, encourage 
investment,  create  employment  and  lift  up  the  poor 
and  marginalized  in  Fiji.  We  have  introduced  free 
schooling  at  the  primary  and  secondary  level  for  the 
first time and made great efforts to bring the benefits of 
Government programmes, technology and the modern 
market  to  people  in  remote  and  underserved  areas  of 
the  country.  Infrastructure  development,  including 
roads, electricity, water and health care, is our priority.
The results have been encouraging. Our economy 
has grown at more than 4 per cent per annum for the 
past three years, and the rate for 2014 was more than 
5.3  per  cent.  National  and  international  economic 
experts  expect  us  to  meet  or  exceed  that  figure  this 
year.  Investment,  particularly  domestic  investment,  is 
booming. Construction is up, tourism is up, we have a 
healthy  surplus  in  foreign  exchange  reserves  and  job 
openings  have  increased  substantially,  showing  that 
Fijians  are  confident.  They  believe  in  themselves,  in 
their democracy and in their country’s future. This is 
the  most  sustained  period  of  economic  growth  in  our 
history,  and  it  is  part  of  a  revolution  of  initiative  and 
energy directly linked to our new democracy.
Dedication to basic human rights is the foundation 
of  democracy.  No  democracy  can  survive  if  each 
individual’s rights are not sacred and if the State fails 
to protect, or even works to undermine, the ability of 
all to think and believe and worship as they choose. No 
democracy can survive if elections only mean that the 
winners take all. No democracy can survive if it does 
not enshrine human dignity as a right and make every 
effort  to  assure  the  people’s  socioeconomic  rights,  as 
our Constitution provides for.
We  have  made  believers  out  of  people  who  once 
doubted and criticized us. We have overcome sanctions 
and isolation, imposed by other democratic nations in the 
mistaken belief that they would push us to democracy. 
In fact, we needed no push. We were already committed 
to  that  path.  What  we  needed  was  engagement  and 
support, and I am pleased to say that we have it again, 
at  last.  It  is  clear  that  we  have  fashioned  our  own 
democracy  on  dedication  to  the  rights  and  dignity  of 
each person in Fiji, and we bring that dedication to our 
work at the United Nations.
Since  Fiji  established  its  Mission  in  Geneva  last 
year, my Government has worked energetically with the 
human rights community. Earlier this year, I addressed 
the Human Rights Council in Geneva, outlining Fiji’s 
human rights priorities, particularly as they relate to our 
progressive bill of rights in the 2013 Fijian Constitution. 
Fijians now enjoy an unprecedented level of protection, 
enforced  through  an  independent  judiciary  and  a 
human  rights  and  anti-discrimination  commission.  I 
have invited a number of special mandate holders under 
the  Human  Rights  Council  to  visit  Fiji.  I  am  pleased 
that  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  right  to  education 
will  visit  Fiji  within  a  year  to  assess  and  support  my 
Government’s efforts and initiatives to strengthen the 
right to education. Fiji has also committed to ratifying 
the core human rights instruments in the not so distant 
future.  That  is  a  solemn  commitment  that  flows 
naturally from our basic belief that all Fijians have the 
right to live with dignity. We understand that this will 
carry  additional  obligations  towards  our  own  people, 
obligations we are eager to take on.
As we participate in the Human Rights Council, we 
find, yet again, that the voice and the unique concerns 
of  the  Pacific  small  island  developing  States  have 
trouble  being  heard.  We  have  a  unique  perspective 
44/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
of  the  world  to  share  with  the  international  human 
rights  community.  That  includes  calling  attention  to 
the  detrimental  effect  that  climate  change  is  having 
on  our  ability  to  extend  and  strengthen  human  rights 
in  the  region.  It  also  includes  educating  others  about 
the  challenges  many  of  us  face  in  creating  proper 
institutions  and  changing  long-held  cultural  attitudes 
that can be obstacles to full respect for human rights. 
Those are issues that Fiji will continue to raise now, and 
as a member of the Human Rights Council for the term 
2018-2020, if we are elected.
Like  our  neighbours  in  the  South  Pacific  and 
other small island developing States, we see the bright 
future  we  have  charted  for  ourselves  dimmed  by  the 
prospect of climate change and sea-level rise. Fiji has 
been  outspoken  in  insisting  that  all  nations  carry  out 
their  duty  to  reduce  carbon  emissions  and  control 
the  production  of  greenhouse  gases.  Fiji  is  making 
strenuous efforts to do its part, but our part in creating 
the  crisis  is  very  small,  practically  negligible.  The 
major  developed  nations  and  —  I  must  say  it  —  the 
major  developing  nations  as  well,  must  do  more.  It  is 
simply not acceptable for advanced economies to build 
a  high  standard  of  living  by  degrading  the  Earth  and 
the seas. It is also not acceptable for major nations that 
are industrialising to assert that they need to degrade 
the  Earth,  the  air  and  the  seas  in  order  to  build  their 
economies,  just  as  the  advanced  countries  did  years 
ago. The emergency is now. The solution must be now. 
The time for excuses is over.
Earlier this month, the Pacific leaders at the third 
Summit  of  the  Pacific  Island  Development  Forum 
adopted the Suva Declaration on Climate Change. This 
landmark declaration clearly sets out the agreed demands 
of the Pacific island developing States for an acceptable 
outcome at the United Nations Climate Conference in 
Paris  later  this  year.  The  Suva  Declaration  calls  for 
the  2015  climate  change  agreement  to  limit  global 
average temperature increase to less than 1.5°C above 
pre-industrial levels. It calls for the Paris agreement to 
be legally binding on all parties, and for it to recognize 
loss and damage as a stand-alone element. We also call 
for climate change adaptation measures to be 100 per 
cent grant-financed.
The  choices  we  face  may  be  politically  difficult 
in the short run, but the consequences we are already 
seeing — environmental degradation, unbearable heat, 
drought,  powerful  tropical  storms  and  unpredictable 
weather  patterns  —  are  simply  unacceptable.  We  are 
elected as leaders, and leaders must be able to explain 
these  consequences  to  their  people  and  convince 
them  to  make  the  necessary  short-term  sacrifices  for 
everyone’s benefit. These consequences are real for Fiji 
and its neighbours. We have plans to move 45 villages 
to  higher  ground,  and  we  have  already  started.  We 
have  committed  to  resettling  people  from  other  low-
lying South Pacific island States who face the prospect 
of being swallowed up by the rising ocean and falling 
inexorably into oblivion. Should that happen, the people 
of those island States would be refugees, as desperate 
and lost as the hundreds of thousands fleeing conflict 
in Syria and Iraq. It is very real and it is happening now. 
It is time to shed our indifference.
Fiji  particularly  welcomes  the  establishment  of 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goal  (SDG)  on  the 
conservation  and  sustainable  management  of  oceans 
and seas. Our destiny is shaped by the ocean in which 
we are set. But we also welcome this Goal as citizens 
of the Earth, because the health of the oceans and seas 
is  vital  for  everyone.  In  the  Pacific  Ocean,  for  too 
long now, we have observed the decline in our ocean’s 
health, as evidenced by dying coral, marine pollution, 
damaged coastal ecosystems, declining fish stocks, and 
ocean acidification. Those of us who are old enough to 
remember our ocean in much healthier times must do 
more than lament that our grandchildren may never see 
the ocean as it was created. We must do all we can to 
make sure that they know the ocean as it was when our 
forebearers bequeathed it to us.
As a founding member of the United Nations group 
of friends of oceans and seas, Fiji has been working to 
establish a high-level global platform to ensure that we 
meet SDG14. I am proud to say that we have found a 
strong ally in the Government of Sweden to establish 
the triennial United Nations conference on oceans and 
seas,  with  five  international  conferences  spanning 
the  15  years  of  the  2030  Sustainable  Development 
Agenda. They will be conferences for action, not talk. 
Governments,  international  organizations,  scientists, 
business  leaders  and  others  will  gather  at  the  five 
conferences to assess progress and hold all participants 
accountable  for  meeting  targets.  We  will  host  the 
triennial conference in Fiji in June 2017, and all those 
dedicated  to  the  integrity  of  implementation  of  the 
oceans Goal will be welcome.
We  Fijians  do  not  ask  others  to  do  what  we  are 
unwilling  to  do.  We  are  a  nation  that  stands  up.  We 
stand  up  for  peace.  We  stand  up  for  our  neighbours. 
15-29562
45/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
And we stand up for the environment. We held our first 
national  green  growth  summit  in  Fiji  only  a  couple 
of months before I appeared before the Assembly last 
year. In that short time, Fiji developed and has begun 
implementing  its  own  green  growth  framework  —  a 
master plan for an economic model that is more holistic, 
integrated,  inclusive  and,  above  all,  sustainable.  Our 
framework links economic growth and environmental 
protection and builds an economy that grows in a more 
intelligent  way  and  nurtures  the  interests  of  all  our 
citizens. No project will proceed if it is not sustainable, 
or  if  it  jeopardizes  our  natural  resources  in  any  way. 
We hold our resources in trust for future generations, 
and we will not squander them for short-term economic 
gain. We will continue to grow, develop and modernize, 
but we will embrace a future in which our forests, our 
mangroves, our coral reefs and our marine life thrive. 
If everyone does the same with their part of the world, 
large or small, we may have a chance to save this planet.
I  believe  that  Fiji’s  commitment  to  the  United 
Nations as an institution and to the work of the United 
Nations  is  second  to  none.  Our  contributions  to 
worldwide peacekeeping are a matter of national pride, 
honour and commitment. Today, Fijian military, police 
and correctional officers are actively engaged in United 
Nations  peacekeeping  missions  in  Iraq,  the  Golan 
Heights, Lebanon, Darfur and South Sudan, as well as 
in the Multinational Force and Observers in Sinai. We 
are also proud to now be serving in the United Nations 
Truce  Supervision  Organization,  headquartered  in 
Jerusalem.
This national mission of ours — to work with other 
nations  to  bring  peace  to  the  world  —  has  become  a 
part of our national identity. It involves great sacrifice 
on  the  part  of  many  Fijian  families  and,  of  course,  it 
is  dangerous  work  that  has  resulted  in  the  tragic  loss 
of life. But I bring to the General Assembly today the 
solemn will of the Fijian people to continue to serve the 
cause of peace through the United Nations wherever the 
Organization is called on to heal the wounds of strife 
and war.
Fiji has been a Member of the United Nations since 
its independence, in October 1970. Since that time Fiji’s 
leaders have attended the General Assembly every year 
to  play  our  part  in  this  great  global  gathering.  Every 
year  we  have  been  wisely  guided  by  a  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  hailing  from  one  of  our  fellow 
Member States, but never by a President from the Pacific 
Islands  developing  States.  We  believe  the  time  has 
come for the Pacific Islands to provide the Assembly’s 
President,  and  we  have  put  forward  a  candidate  for 
the  Assembly’s  seventy-first  session.  Our  candidate, 
duly submitted to the Asia-Pacific Group, is currently 
Fiji’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations, 
Ambassador Peter Thomson. He is a seasoned diplomat 
who  has  demonstrated  extraordinary  leadership  in 
service to the United Nations. Fiji looks to the friends 
of  the  Pacific  Islands  at  the  United  Nations  to  give 
their support to our candidate for the President of the 
Assembly at its seventy-first Session.
Fiji  is  fully  committed  to  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations under President Lykketoft’s stewardship at this 
seventieth session of the General Assembly. I pledge to 
him our full support and cooperation as he carries out 
the responsibilities that lie before him. This body holds 
the promise of raising human beings out of poverty and 
degradation to health and hope, from conflict and fear 
to peace, and from an effort to tame our environment 
to  a  commitment  to  live  in  harmony  with  it.  Fiji  will 
be with him this year, and we will be with our fellow 
nations until we realize that promise.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Fiji for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Fiji, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Malta
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta.
Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Muscat,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Malta, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly.
Mr.  Muscat  (Malta):  As  we  all  know,  this  year 
constitutes a landmark year for our Organization as we 
celebrate its seventieth anniversary. The Organization’s 
founding fathers wanted to turn the ashes of the Second 
World War into a new order that would secure peace, 
advance  global  prosperity,  alleviate  poverty  and 
promote  human  rights  worldwide.  They  wanted  to 
46/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
create what they termed a strong United Nations and a 
better world. 
As  we  commemorate  this  seventieth  anniversary, 
let us pause and ask whether today’s world is really a 
better one. In an era of negativity and media onslaught 
with  respect  to  global  problems,  it  would  be  easy  to 
answer “no”, and there are valid reasons to do so. But 
our duty is, as the standard bearers of optimism, to defy 
the  logic  of  pessimism  and  answer  “yes”.  Indeed,  the 
problems are many, but the world has never experienced 
such  a  degree  of  commitment  by  global  citizens  who 
are looking beyond the notion of the traditional nation 
State and come together as a global community.
The United Nations has contributed significantly to 
transforming our world into a safer and more just place 
for humankind. It has contributed to the eradication of 
disease, the promotion of justice, freedom and human 
rights, the attainment of peace in different parts of the 
world,  and  to  stemming  the  proliferation  of  weapons 
of  mass  destruction.  Its  efforts  at  mediation  and  the 
peacebuilding and peacekeeping successes shepherded 
by  the  United  Nations  have  resulted  in  more  people 
being able to determine their destiny. The Millennium 
Development Goals spurred us on in our commitment 
to seek a better life for the poor and the malnourished, 
and we have now adopted the Sustainable Development 
Goals  (resolution  70/1).  If  proof  were  needed  that  the 
United Nations can actually make a difference, we have 
seen  it.  Indeed,  if  we  reflect  over  the  last  70  years,  I 
believe there is much to be proud of.
The question that needs to be addressed, however, 
is not whether the United Nations has been a force for 
good  —  which  it  very  obviously  has  —  but  whether 
in  today’s  vastly  different  world,  it  is  still  capable  of 
meeting the challenges it faces. The Organization is, I 
believe, still a work in progress. We continue to live in a 
vastly uneven world plagued by conflict, inequality and 
injustice. New and profound challenges have emerged, 
many of which are global in nature and which therefore 
require global solutions.
Last  year  (see  A/69/PV.12),  I  stressed  that  more 
attention needed to be focused on the plight of migrants 
in the Mediterranean, the cradle of civilization that has 
now  sadly  been  turned  into  a  graveyard.  My  country 
finds itself at the crossroads between the Middle East, 
Europe  and  Africa.  The  tragedy  that  is  occurring 
so  close  to  home  is  starkly  evident  and  of  immense 
concern  to  us.  We  are  the  only  country  in  Europe, 
and  probably  the  only  country  around  the  world,  that 
dedicates 100 per cent of its limited military resources 
to saving people at sea each and every day. 
Last April, we witnessed the funeral of 24 migrants 
who  perished  together  with  800  others  in  what  is 
probably  the  worst-ever-recorded  capsizing  of  a  boat 
laden  with  migrants  in  the  Mediterranean.  Those 
unnamed individuals were mourned by all of us. Sadly, 
however, that was not the last tragedy. While many have 
been rescued through the concerted efforts of European 
countries,  several  thousand  others  have  continued 
to  lose  their  lives  on  this  perilous  journey,  a  journey 
which they are sometimes forced to take at gunpoint by 
unscrupulous people smugglers. 
So far, this year has broken all records in terms of 
desperate  people  attempting  to  flee  from  persecution 
and hopelessness in search of a better life and to attain 
the right to live in peace, free from anxiety, poverty and 
persecution. We see it happening in the Mediterranean 
Sea, and now we see it happening across the Balkans. 
This  proves  that  it  not  a  Mediterranean  problem,  nor 
is it European problem. It is a global phenomenon that 
needs global responses.
Malta has been highlighting this situation for years 
and years now in the General Assembly. In November, 
we  will  host  a  summit  bringing  together  the  leaders 
of  the  European  Union  and  key  African  nations.  The 
Valletta Summit will be an opportunity to enhance our 
dialogue and improve our understanding in an attempt 
to  address  this  issue  comprehensively,  in  a  spirit  of 
partnership  and  cooperation  with  all  the  countries 
involved.  It  is  expected  to  build  and  strengthen  the 
present frameworks of action in the field of migration 
in  an  effort  to  address  the  phenomenon  in  a  more 
holistic  manner  and  in  order  to  take  advantage  of 
the  opportunities  presented  while  dealing  with  the 
challenge of forced displacement. 
The  first  priority  must  remain  the  saving  of 
lives.  This  is  our  moral  duty  as  human  beings. 
Europe  intensified  the  search  and  rescue  operations 
in  an  attempt  to  reduce  the  loss  of  lives.  We  are  also 
providing assistance and refuge to those who qualify. 
Nevertheless,  an  important  and  necessary  part  of  the 
European Union effort requires greater commitment to 
taking on the smugglers before they can put the lives 
of  more  innocent  people  at  risk.  The  international 
community should be under no illusion. When it comes 
to  those  criminals,  we  are  dealing  with  individuals 
15-29562
47/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
who feed on the desperation of innocent people. In the 
process, they are making a fortune — and the money 
is also being used to finance other criminal activities, 
probably even including terrorism. Those people must 
be  held  accountable  for  their  crimes  and  brought  to 
justice.
Efforts  to  combat  those  networks  must,  in  the 
first instance, be stepped up nationally and regionally. 
Closer cooperation is essential, most of all among the 
countries  of  origin,  transit  and  destination,  including 
through  better  intelligence-sharing  and  joint  criminal 
investigations.  Improved  implementation  of  national 
enforcement  policies  and  stronger  penalties  to  punish 
smugglers  are  also  essential  measures  to  effectively 
address that challenge.
We have to continue doing our best to give shelter 
to  those  fleeing  from  war  and  those  qualifying  for 
asylum.  But  it  must  also  be  clear  that  a  free-for-all 
policy is not on the table. People who do not qualify for 
asylum should be returned. Safe countries of origin that 
do not help in returns should face sanctions. Those that 
collaborate  should  be  rewarded  with  further  aid  and 
access to markets.
Nevertheless, tackling the root causes of migration 
is  the  only  real  long-term  solution.  There  are  several 
causes.  Starting  with  development,  2015  is  a  pivotal 
year  for  global  sustainable  development  and  poverty 
eradication. Through the adoption of the Addis Ababa 
Action Agenda, agreed to in July, as well as the post-
2015  development  agenda,  which  we  welcomed  just 
a  few  days  ago,  we  are  called  upon  to  respond  in  a 
transformative  manner  to  the  fundamental  challenges 
facing the world today: eradicating poverty, achieving 
inclusive and sustainable development for present and 
future  generations  and  ensuring  the  promotion  and 
protection of all human rights and fundamental values 
as  the  basis  for  peaceful  and  prosperous  societies. 
However, we should all be starkly aware that that is only 
the first step of a process that can be successful only if 
we are truly fully committed to its implementation.
However, all of those efforts will be futile unless 
we clearly and determinedly address the long-standing 
conflicts  in  the  countries  of  origin  and  transit.  It  is 
not  just  Malta’s  or  Europe’s  problem.  It  is  everyone’s 
problem.  The  United  Nations  needs  to  act,  as  it  is 
morally  bound  to  do.  Yes,  we  have  to  tackle  the  war 
in Syria. But it is a delusion to think that solving Syria 
will  in  itself  solve  the  migration  phenomenon.  What 
about Somalia, Eritrea and the whole list of forgotten 
conflicts generating the mass displacement of people? 
What  about  climate  change,  which  is  expected  to 
displace so many people? Even in the best-case scenario, 
we  live  in  a  world  where  the  mass  displacement  of 
people will be a key feature. That is because we need 
to  recognize  that  not  only  desperation  makes  people 
move, but also aspiration. People aspire to a better life 
for themselves and their families. At a time when the 
world is getting smaller, mothers and fathers, such as 
ourselves,  will  set  out,  believing,  rightly  or  wrongly, 
that they will secure a better future for their children. 
We  therefore  need  tools  and  institutions  to  establish 
rules  and  tackle  the  phenomenon  permanently,  not 
simply  as  a  humanitarian  effort,  but  they  should 
comprise  an  economic,  social  and  environmental 
framework to anticipate and manage those flows.
I come from a family of nations that has been very 
much in the news for failing to agree unanimously on a 
mandatory distribution system for refugees. I was one 
of the most vociferous critics in Europe, indicating our 
failures. Nevertheless, I stand in front of the Assembly 
today  as  a  proud  European.  Can  anyone  mention  to 
me any other group of nations that has gone so far as 
to  agreeing,  albeit  with  considerable  birth  pangs  and 
bruises, to such a system? There is none. Only Europe 
has done so to date. Therefore I ask, “Where is everyone 
else”?
We made a first step. Now the global community has 
to follow. The United Nations is the apposite forum. At 
the end of the Second World War, nation States realized 
that their financial system was broken, that they could 
no  longer  operate  in  a  vacuum.  The  Bretton  Woods 
Agreement  laid  the  basis  for  rules  and  institutions  to 
tackle the new reality. We now need a Bretton Woods 
of migration: rules and institutions that ensure that all 
the  members  of  the  international  community,  not  just 
the  few,  share  and  shoulder  the  phenomenon  of  mass 
migration,  with  both  legal  channels  and  instruments 
to deal with crises. In other words, a European quota 
alone  should  not  exist,  but  a  global  quota  system  for 
migrants, for not only this, but all crises. I urge that such 
a discussion begin. Let us not allow people smugglers, 
the criminals, decide for us. Let us read the writing on 
the wall and lay the foundations for that new system.
On a related subject, in our immediate neighbourhood 
in the Mediterranean, the escalation in Libya proceeded 
at such a fast pace that the United Nations responded by 
taking the lead role to resolve that conflict. The conflict 
48/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
is  providing  all  the  necessary  space  for  criminals  to 
smuggle people and take control of significant parts of 
the country. Malta strongly supports the indefatigable 
efforts  of  the  United  Nations  to  launch  a  national 
dialogue for a reconciliation process and the formation 
of  a  national  unity  Government  in  Libya.  Malta 
recognized and welcomed the initialling of the United 
Nations-led draft agreement in Morocco last July. The 
agreement’s initialling was the result of ongoing United 
Nations-facilitated consultations among various Libyan 
rival parties.
Hopefully,  we  will  witness  an  all-inclusive  peace 
agreement. We have to acknowledge the political will 
and  courage  demonstrated  by  those  who  initialled 
the  draft  agreement,  which  seeks  to  resolve  Libya’s 
institutional  and  security  crises.  The  major  challenge 
ahead,  especially  in  neighbouring  countries  such 
as  ours,  is  to  ensure  that  the  implementation  of  the 
agreement is put into effect. All Libyan actors in that 
process must realize that it is their homeland that needs 
to be saved, and that all hostilities and violent disputes 
must  cease  immediately.  The  actors  must  continue  to 
engage  actively  in  an  inclusive  political  dialogue  for 
national reconciliation. 
And  we  must  be  very  sincere.  If  a  complete 
agreement proves elusive again, it is high time that the 
United  Nations  and  the  global  community  back  those 
people of good will on both sides of the divide who are 
willing  to  reach  an  agreement,  and  sideline  those  on 
both sides who are simply wasting their people’s future.
This is an important year for my country. For the 
second  time  in  10  years,  we  will  very  soon  host  the 
Commonwealth  Heads  of  Government  Meeting.  The 
summit,  guided  by  the  theme  “The  Commonwealth: 
Adding  Global  Value”,  will  be  the  culmination  of  a 
number of activities and forums, namely, the people’s 
forum,  the  youth  forum,  the  business  forum  and,  for 
the  first  time,  the  women’s  forum.  In  organizing  the 
event  and  our  assumption  of  the  chairmanship  of  the 
Commonwealth, we plan to address issues of common 
concern, 
including  global  political  and  security 
challenges, the most urgent of which is the unprecedented 
increase  in  extremism  and  radicalization,  as  well  as 
to  assess  the  state  of  development  in  the  wake  of  the 
adoption of the post-2015 agenda and related financing 
for the development process, with particular attention 
to  practical  steps  that  Commonwealth  Governments 
might  take  to  accelerate  the  implementation  of  the 
outcomes of key global processes.
Malta  is  confident  that  the  Commonwealth  can 
also provide added value to the international debate on 
climate  change,  particularly  since  that  gathering  will 
take place on the eve of the twenty-first Conference of 
the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention 
on  Climate  Change  (COP21).  Climate  action  will  be 
prominently  featured  on  the  summit  agenda.  Noting 
that  the  Commonwealth  gathers  disparate  countries 
from all continents and from vulnerable island States, 
as well as the Group of 20 economies, the summit will 
play  an  important  role  in  strengthening  regional  and 
international cooperation and providing support for the 
successful outcome of COP21. We now look forward to 
the  successful  conclusion  to  the  United  Nations  Paris 
summit on climate change in December. In seeking to 
reach an ambitious, fair, balanced and legally binding 
agreement, we must be principled and practical in our 
approach.
Malta  believes  that  climate  change  is  a  decisive 
challenge,  which  if  not  urgently  managed  will  put 
at  risk  not  only  the  environment  but  also  the  world’s 
economic  prosperity,  development  and,  more  broadly, 
stability  and  security.  In  1988,  our  former  President, 
the  late  Mr.  Vincent  Tabone,  proposed  a  resolution 
that  called  for  the  world’s  climate  to  be  declared  the 
common  heritage  of  humankind  (resolution  43/53). 
The  impact  of  climate  change  requires  a  global  and 
coordinated  response.  Malta  was  the  first  to  alert  the 
international  community  to  the  need  to  address  the 
warnings  on  human-induced  climate  change  by  the 
scientific  community.  We  now  aspire  to  being  one 
facilitator among others in securing an equitable deal.
I  am  of  the  firm  conviction  that  what  binds  us 
together is stronger than what divides us. The challenges 
we  face  should  unite  us  as  we  need  to,  and  indeed 
we  must,  face  them  together.  As  standard  bearers  of 
optimism, we respond to the day’s great problems with 
even greater resolve. Malta will play its part.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Malta for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta, was escorted from the rostrum.
15-29562
49/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
Address by Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister 
of the Kingdom of Belgium
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Belgium.
Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Belgium, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Charles Michel, Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Belgium, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Michel  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):  A 
predecessor of the President of the General Assembly 
at its first session, in 1946, was one of my compatriots, 
Mr.  Paul-Henri  Spaak.  In  the  midst  of  the  Second 
World War, he said that we must take advantage of the 
exceptional  circumstances  to  seize  the  opportunity 
to make substantial progress in the world and to save 
succeeding generations from the scourge of war. That 
was the objective of the founders of the United Nations 
70 years ago.
The  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights 
enshrines  fundamental  human  rights  and  universal 
values.  All  human  beings  are  born  free  and  equal. 
Freedom of thought, freedom of opinion and freedom 
of  expression  are  intangible.  Those  freedoms  are 
the  foundation  of  a  democratic  world  in  which  each 
individual’s dignity, no matter what his country, origin 
or culture, must be fully respected.
Since  1945,  the  world  has  changed  and  much 
progress  has  been  realized.  I  am  40  years  old. 
The  challenges  our  generation  faces  are  multiple, 
complex  and  increasingly  interrelated  —  conflicts, 
poverty, climate and migration. The 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) should give 
new  impetus  and  greater  force  to  our  joint  action  for 
development. As I said, I am 40 and was born well after 
the  independence  of  the  African  States.  My  belief  is 
that the destiny of Europe and Africa are inextricably 
linked.  Everyone  stands  to  gain  from  the  success  of 
others, but we can also lose much from failures. I have 
not known the period of colonization. I know only an 
Africa of free and independent African States, so I have 
no sense of nostalgia nor guilt. But I do have a feeling of 
responsibility. We must look clearly and optimistically 
to the future of the continent, to which my country is 
especially  committted.  We  want  a  sincere  and  frank 
relationship of equals, a partnership in which everyone 
is fully respected and no one teaches the other lessons.
With its more than 1 billion people, I am convinced 
that  Africa  will  have  an  increasingly  more  important 
place  in  the  world.  We  know  the  potential  of  the 
continent.  Africa  has  the  talent  and  Africa  has  the 
resources. I think first of the young Africans, who are 
full of vitality and ingenious and who want to take their 
destiny  into  their  own  hands.  They  have  a  feeling  of 
dignity and freedom that nothing and nobody can stop. 
The primary condition for development is respect 
for  the  rule  of  law  and  the  guarantee  of  personal 
freedom. The years 2015 and 2016 are election years in 
Africa. There can be no democracy without legitimacy, 
and there can be no legitimacy without respect for the 
constitutional  agreements  that  unite  the  leaders  with 
their  peoples.  Certain  countries,  such  as  Nigeria  and 
Senegal, have demonstrated wisdom. But we can only 
condemn the coup d’état attempts, such as that which 
recently occurred in Burkina Faso. Ultimately, we must 
call on all Heads of State to fully respect the electoral 
cycles as set out by their Constitutions.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  enshrines  the 
sovereignty of all States. Sovereignty first of all entails 
the primary responsibility of leading a country in the 
public interest. In no case can sovereignty it serve as 
a  pretext  for  an  oligarchy.  Sovereignty  involves  duty 
to the people. Ignoring the people’s will or trampling 
on their freedoms will succeed only for a short period 
of  time,  because  the  people’s  thirst  for  freedom  and 
dignity will sooner or later win.
In Burundi, we spared no effort to ensure respect 
for  the  Constitution  and  the  Arusha  agreements.  The 
obstinacy  to  remain  in  power  at  whatever  cost  is  a 
certain form of blindness that upsets the balance.
Today, unfortunately, the country is deeply divided, 
and it is Burundian citizens, many of them now refugees, 
who are the main victims. We would like to once again 
make an urgent appeal for a political dialogue between 
the Government and the opposition under the auspices 
of the countries of the region, within the framework of 
the East African Community.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo is a great 
country situated in the heart of Africa. It has a young, 
dynamic  population  and  abundant  natural  resources, 
but  also  a  history  of  tragic  conflict  for  which  its 
population  has  paid  a  terrible  price  for  many  years. 
50/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
Respect for the rule of law and constitutional order is 
the only road to stability. With elections in the offing, 
everyone  is  expecting  the  country’s  political  officials 
to demonstrate that they have the best interests of their 
country and people at heart.
My  country  is  also  committed  to  working  to 
improve  both  security  and  development  in  the  Sahel 
region. Destabilization in Libya, explosive population 
growth and climate change have all resulted in serious 
problems, as we know. We want to continue to support 
peacekeeping operations in the Niger and Mali, as well 
as the efforts of the United Nations Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali.
Along  with  official  development  assistance, 
we  should  encourage  private  initiative.  Economic 
development  must  create  jobs  and  produce  more 
revenue  for  States.  Improving  the  business  climate 
and  combating  corruption  will  promote  investment. 
We  should  also  encourage  innovative  financing  for 
development,  such  as,  for  example,  the  idea  of  an 
international tax on financial transactions.
We  are  all  dealing  increasingly  with  the  rise  of 
terrorism, and my country has not been spared. Terrorists 
want to destroy our universal values, and they do it by 
striking down innocent victims indiscriminately. While 
we must mobilize all possible means against these new 
threats, it is the duty of democracies to fight fanatics 
with  respect  for  the  rule  of  law.  It  will  not  be  easy, 
but  we  must  keep  a  constant  watch  over  the  balance 
between the right to security and respect for individual 
liberties. We must mobilize our security forces, police 
and  judicial  authorities,  but  we  should  also,  perhaps, 
rely more on local communities, religious and spiritual 
leaders  and  civil  society.  Since  2003,  negotiations  on 
an international convention on terrorism have been at 
a  standstill.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  urge  that 
we  put  renewed  effort  into  making  that  international 
convention on terrorism a reality as soon as possible, 
and in that way add to the means for taking action at 
our disposal.
Other  speakers  before  me  have  also  urged  that 
we  must  work  to  resolve  the  conflicts  in  Libya,  Iraq 
and  Syria.  To  be  clear,  in  Syria  it  is  not  a  question 
for  us  of  choosing  between  the  fanatical  barbarism 
of  the  Islamic  State,  on  the  one  hand,  or  the  tyranny 
and  massacres  of  Bashar  Al-Assad,  on  the  other.  We 
believe  we  must  act  in  parallel,  at  once  eradicating 
Daesh and at the same time forcing a political transition 
towards free and credible elections. Syria needs strong 
institutions  and  a  legitimate  Government.  That  is  the 
only possible path to peace and stability. We advocate 
a comprehensive humanitarian and political approach, 
with  the  possibility  of  considering  a  military  option 
conducted  with  respect  for  international  law.  We 
support the extraordinary commitment of Mr. Staffan 
de Mistura, the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General, 
to re-starting a dialogue between all the parties.
It  has  to  be  said  frankly  that  the  situation  in 
Libya  is  the  result  of  a  failure  on  the  part  of  the 
international community, and it shows clearly that only 
a  comprehensive  approach  makes  sense.  At  present, 
extremist  groups  of  all  stripes  are  sowing  terror,  as 
the  attacks  attempting  to  undermine  the  democratic 
transition in Tunisia attest. Here, too, we fully support 
the  United  Nations  efforts  to  promote  a  political 
dialogue.
We  see  that  conflict  and  war  push  populations  to 
seek safety elsewhere, far from home. Today, 60 million 
people  around  the  world  are  displaced  and  often  risk 
their  lives  to  flee  conflict.  Syria,  sadly,  is  only  one 
of  the  tragic  examples  of  such  situations.  We  should 
support  the  countries  that  have  to  deal  most  directly 
with the consequences of those conflicts — Lebanon, 
Jordan and Turkey — and I welcome the fact that the 
European Union has decided to mobilize €1 billion to 
support hosting refugees in those three countries.
In  the  Middle  East,  the  peace  process  is  stalled. 
We  believe  the  status  quo  is  not  an  option.  Raising 
the Palestinian flag here at the United Nations, as we 
hope to do, is of course a symbol, but it is not enough. 
More  than  ever,  in  our  view,  the  objective  should  be 
recognition of a sovereign and independent Palestinian 
State, with full respect for Israel’s security. We have to 
tell it like it is — neither rockets nor illegal settlements 
can pave the way to that vital goal. Europe must work 
harder with all its partners, and it is in that spirit that 
Belgium  supports  France’s  initiative  to  establish  a 
contact group bringing together countries of goodwill.
The Charter of the United Nations establishes the 
principle of sovereign equality. The territorial integrity 
and sovereignty of every country must be guaranteed 
absolutely.  In  that  regard,  we  stand  by  Ukraine  in 
upholding the principles and obligations of international 
law. The Minsk agreements must be fully implemented 
by all the parties.
15-29562
51/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
I would like to conclude by pointing out that while 
of  course  peace  and  security  will  always  continue  to 
be  our  goals,  and  differences  between  countries  will 
continue  to  exist,  it  is  the  duty  of  humankind  and  of 
the  General  Assembly  to  resolve  emerging  conflicts 
through dialogue and mutual understanding, rather than 
guns and fanaticism. The peace agreement in Colombia, 
the  Iranian  nuclear  agreement  and  the  resumption  of 
diplomatic relations with Cuba show that dialogue and 
respect can produce concrete results. The international 
order must assume that everyone, regardless of origin, 
culture  or  religion,  fully  endorses  our  basic  universal 
values. As President Obama put it so well only days ago 
in this very Hall, “You can jail your opponents, but you 
cannot imprison ideas” (A/70/PV.13, p. 11).
As a Head of Government, I know the responsibility 
that lies on the shoulders of those who represent their 
people. And, like all those here, I know that everywhere 
in  the  world  there  are  pitfalls,  contradictions  and 
tragedies. But, above all, the world is made up of women 
and men with dreams and hopes both for themselves and 
for those they love. The spirit of freedom, innovation, 
intelligence,  ingenuity,  respect  and  tolerance  are  the 
best  weapons  we  have  to  overcome  the  challenges  of 
this century together. I would like to end with the words 
of Paul-Henri Spaak, the first President of the General 
Assembly, who said during his presidency that between 
a perfect world and a better world, he chose the better 
world.  We  know  that  a  perfect  world  is  unattainable. 
But  a  better  world  depends  only  us.  A  better  world 
demands  courage,  responsibility  and  solidarity.  With 
that  conviction,  I  wish  to  affirm  here  my  country’s 
commitment to a better world.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Belgium for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Belgium, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Tammam Salam, President 
of the Council of Ministers of the Lebanese 
Republic
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Council  of 
Minister of the Lebanese Republic.
Mr.  Tammam  Salam,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Lebanese Republic, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Tammam  Salam, 
President of the Council of Ministers of the Lebanese 
Republic,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mr.  Salam  (Lebanon)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  is  my 
pleasure, at the outset, to congratulate the President for 
presiding over the work of the General Assembly at its 
seventieth session. I also take this opportunity to thank 
Mr. Sam Kutesa, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uganda, 
for the efforts exerted throughout his presidency of the 
Assembly during its sixty-ninth session.
On 
the  seventieth  anniversary  marking 
the 
establishment of the United Nations, in which my country 
had the honour of contributing by way of the drafting of 
the Charter of the United Nations, I would like to stress 
Lebanon’s commitment in fully assuming its active role 
as  a  member  of  the  international  community  in  order 
to  fulfil  the  noble  aims  unanimously  approved  by  all 
nations:  chiefly,  safeguarding  international  peace  and 
security, the right of peoples to self-determination and 
respect for the human rights and fundamental freedoms 
of all human beings.
We speak about the fundamental rights of human 
beings;  in  our  region  that  concept  is  withering  away, 
day  after  day,  under  the  pressure  of  wars;  dimming 
before an ever growing shadow hiding behind the veil 
of  religion;  and  completely  disintegrating  when  faced 
with  the  barbaric  colonization  practised  by  the  State 
of  Israel,  while  it  seeks  to  hide  under  a  modern  and 
democratic cloak. Before the eyes of the entire world, 
nations  in  our  region  are  disintegrating.  Millions  are 
leaving their homes, wandering off to the unknown.
There  is  Aylan:  the  3-year-old  child  seen  earlier 
this month by the entire world, after his body washed 
ashore  towards  his  eternal  resting  place.  His  tragedy 
sums  up  the  prevailing  status  of  fundamental  human 
rights in our region. His picture describes the story of a 
tormented people drifting in the sea without direction, 
or  packed  on  sidewalks  in  cities  and  train  stations, 
waiting  for  a  permit,  or  a  visa  or  simply  a  meal.  The 
narrative  has  far  outpaced  any  political,  military  or 
legal framework, to put forth a major question related 
to the present and the future of humankind.
52/54 
15-29562
30/09/2015 
A/70/PV.19
We have all followed the efforts made on the part 
of some European countries to accommodate additional 
numbers of refugees on their territory. Those efforts are 
rooted in the cultural and civilizational heritage rooted 
in  the  bitter  experience  of  devastating  wars.  Yet  we 
continue to believe that the best solution to the problem, 
and  the  least  expensive  for  Syria,  the  neighbouring 
countries and the world, is to tackle the tragedy directly 
and deal with its root causes.
Lebanon  reiterates  its  call  to  the  international 
community,  especially  all  prominent  world  Powers, 
to rise above reluctance and wavering and to stop the 
fighting on Syrian territory, whose price is the blood of 
the Syrians. We urge them to end the ongoing massacre 
by  fostering  a  political  solution  that  safeguards  the 
country’s unity, independence and territorial integrity, 
while  fulfilling  the  Syrian  people’s  aspirations  for  a 
free and dignified life.
That  call  does  not  stem  only  from  the  links  of 
neighborhood,  kinship,  history  and  common  interests 
between  the  Syrian  and  Lebanese  peoples,  but  also 
from Lebanon’s firm interest in ending the Syrian crisis 
because  of  the  heavy  burden  of  the  massive  waves  of 
displaced persons, dubbed by the United Nations itself 
as a “national disaster”.
If Europe, with its sizeable capacity and generous 
humanity, has been confused by the sight of thousands 
of  displaced  persons  suddenly  appearing  in  its  cities, 
Lebanon,  with  its  limited  space  and  scarce  capacity, 
has been hosting, over the past four years, 1.5 million 
displaced  Syrians,  amounting  to  one  third  of  its 
population.  Lebanon’s  public  infrastructure  and  host 
communities have been exhausted maximally at a time 
of steadily declining international assistance due to the 
so-called donor fatigue.
While  upholding 
international  obligations, 
Lebanon reiterates its appeal to donor countries to fulfil 
their commitments, and even to increase their financial 
contributions,  in  order  to  provide  direct  assistance  to 
Lebanese  public  institutions  and  host  communities, 
according to the response plan launched by Lebanon last 
December in collaboration with the United Nations. We 
firmly stress the principle of shared responsibility and 
burden-sharing among countries, while underlining the 
importance  of  establishing  safe  areas  or  buffer  zones 
for refugees in Syria and setting up collection centres 
on the border.
its 
The problem of the displaced population is only one 
facet of the many negative repercussions Lebanon has 
endured due to the neighbouring war. Perhaps the most 
daunting consequence of the conflict is the terrorism, 
which has demanded steep sacrifices. It is no secret that 
for more than a year now a group of our military forces 
is still being held by terrorist groups, and we are still 
exerting tremendous efforts to free them.
Based  on  a  firm  political  resolution  and  efficient 
security  action,  we  have  succeeded  in  addressing  the 
scourge of terrorism. Our people has proved to the world 
that Lebanon is not an incubator of terrorism meddling 
with  some  countries  of  the  region  under  the  cover  of 
Islam — the religion of tolerance, love and moderation. 
The increasing responsibilities assumed by our military 
and  security  apparatus  in  the  fight  against  terrorism 
have  heightened  our  determination  to  strengthen  our 
forces as a main pillar of security, stability and social 
harmony in the country. In stressing the need to address 
its root causes, Lebanon renews its commitment to fight 
terrorism  in  all  its  forms.  We  reaffirm  our  readiness 
to cooperate in the framework of a joint international 
effort,  undertaken  by  the  Security  Council,  aimed  at 
eradicating terrorism and its sources of financing.
Despite the numerous political crises that Lebanon 
now faces — chief among them the vacuum created by 
the absence of a President of the Republic — Lebanon 
is  proud  to  be  a  paragon  of  diversity  and  an  oasis  of 
coexistence  among  the  members  of  various  religions 
and sects. That is at a time when developments in the 
Middle  East  continue  to  threaten  the  social,  cultural 
and  religious  diversity  of  the  region.  We  believe  that 
safeguarding the integrity of Lebanon is tantamount to 
protecting a vital remnant of pluralism in the Levant. 
Therefore, consolidating stability in the country requires 
strengthening its political, security and socioeconomic 
components,  and  it  entails  a  consensual  decision  on 
the part of our brothers and friends. That needs to be 
done  in  order  to  prevent  regional  polarization  from 
influencing  Lebanon,  help  the  Lebanese  people  end 
the current political vacuum and paralysis and bolster 
the  work  of  the  constitutional  institutions  with  the 
immediate election of a new President of the Republic.
We  followed  the  recent  agreement  between  Iran 
and the five permanent Security Council members and 
Germany  with  great  interest.  We  now  hope  that  that 
development  will  open  a  new  chapter  in  international 
relations,  marking  the  beginning  of  progress  in  the 
region  and  improvement  in  the  political  situation  in 
15-29562
53/54
A/70/PV.19 
30/09/2015
Lebanon. We consider that the baseline requirement for 
successful  and  normal  relations  among  the  countries 
in  the  region,  which  is  in  the  best  interests  of  their 
peoples, is a commitment to good-neighbourly policy, 
respect  of  States’  sovereignty  and  non-interference  in 
their internal affairs, security and stability.
While  marking  the  ninth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  of  Security  Council  resolution  1701  (2006), 
Lebanon reaffirms its commitment to all the provisions 
of  that  resolution,  based  on  the  belief  that  it  will 
strengthen stability and security in southern Lebanon 
and  will  contribute  to  extending  the  State’s  authority 
over  its  entire  territory.  Lebanon  reiterates  its  call  to 
the international community to compel Israel to cease 
its  violations  of  Lebanese  sovereignty  and  cooperate 
with  the  United  Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon 
(UNIFIL). I take this opportunity to thank the UNIFIL 
command,  structures,  troops  and  all  participating 
countries in order to demarcate the rest of the Blue Line 
and ensure that the Israelis withdraw immediately from 
the  northern  Ghajar  area,  Shaba’a  farmlands  and  the 
Kfar Shouba Hills.
Lebanon  denounces  Israel’s  continued  occupation 
of Palestinian land and its blockade of the Gaza Strip. 
We  call  upon  the  international  community  to  compel 
it  to  lift  that  inhumane  blockade  and  ensure  decent 
living  conditions  for  the  Palestinians.  We  condemn 
the  repeated  Israeli  attacks  on  the  Al-Aqsa  Mosque 
and warn of their serious repercussions. We hold Israel 
responsible for the failure to reach a peaceful settlement 
to the conflict based on the two-State solution. In the 
meantime,  we  call  upon  the  Security  Council  to  take 
the appropriate action to resume negotiations, aimed at 
ending  the  occupation  within  a  specified  time  frame, 
based  on  resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338  (1973),  the 
Madrid terms of reference and the Arab Peace Initiative. 
While Lebanon rejects the resettlement of refugees on 
its  territory,  we  also  stress  the  right  of  Palestinians 
to  return  to  their  homeland,  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant United Nations resolutions.
A number of crises are roiling in the Middle East 
region,  bringing  upheaval.  The  time  has  come  for 
the  world  to  mobilize  its  energies  and  address  them 
seriously,  rather  than  ignoring  them  and  shirking  its 
responsibility.  That  is  not  only  because  the  Levant 
is  the  spiritual  and  linguistic  cradle  for  so  much  of 
humankind,  but  also  because  our  humanitarian  duty 
commands the international community to take action. 
And  our  undeniable  interest  requires  us  to  contain 
the  wildfire  that  is  raging  now  and  prevent  it  from 
spreading to everyone’s homes.
I call upon the countries of the world to shun their 
inaction and resignation and assume the responsibility 
of  restoring  security  and  stability  in  our  region  and 
ensure people’s right to a better future. The countries 
of the world must reach out and put an end to the death 
toll in Syria, Iraq, Libya and Yemen, and in the land of 
peace, Palestine. I beseech the international community 
to reach out and restore the glow of the Levantine jewel, 
known  as  Lebanon,  and  ensure  that  our  children’s 
right — which is the right of all children — to sail on 
the  vessels  of  their  dreams,  rather  than  on  the  literal 
boats  of  humiliation  and  death,  which  are  carrying 
them to foreign shores.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Council 
of Ministers of the Lebanese Republic for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Tammam  Salam,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Lebanese Republic, was escorted 
from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 3.05 p.m.
54/54 
15-29562
