United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
27th plenary meeting
Friday, 2 October 2015, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.27
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Fornell 
(Ecuador), Vice President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.10 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General Debate
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on His Excellency Archbishop Paul Richard Gallagher, 
Secretary of Relations with States of the Holy See.
Archbishop Gallagher: Echoing the sentiments of 
Pope Francis, who recently visited the United Nations, 
I  wish  to  renew  the  congratulations  of  the  Holy  See 
to  Mr.  Lykketoft  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its seventieth session. I also wish 
to greet each of the participants in today’s meeting and 
to  express  my  hope  that  its  work  will  prove  fruitful 
and give new impetus to the commitment for creating 
a  world  of  peace  and  security,  the  respect  for  human 
rights  and  the  promotion  of  the  necessary  conditions 
for  integral  human  development.  Significantly,  on 
24 October, we will celebrate the entry into force of the 
Charter of the United Nations.
The  recently  concluded  summit  of  the  Heads 
of  State  and  of  Government  adopted  a  plan  of  action 
for  the  prosperity  of  peoples  and  the  planet  and  for 
strengthening peace in greater freedom. In the General 
Assembly’s adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1),  it  has  undertaken  the 
task  of  proposing  a  stable  and  sustainable  pace  for 
the  world  economy.  The  Holy  See  can  only  express 
its  satisfaction,  as  must  the  Governments  that  took 
part  in  the  process  of  drawing  up  the  new  Agenda 
for  their  citizens.  In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  mention 
that,  even  before  the  completion  of  the  negotiations, 
Pope  Francis  stated  that  the  new  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development is an important sign of hope 
for humankind.
In  contrast  to  the  promising  hopes  generated 
by  the  2030  Agenda  and  the  Addis  Ababa  Action 
Agenda  (resolution  69/313,  annex),  adopted  at  the 
third  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development,  there  is  the  sad  panorama  of  war.  It  is 
obvious  that,  unless  conflicts  are  properly  resolved, 
all  efforts  to  overcome  poverty  will  fail.  The  Holy 
See  is  therefore  seriously  concerned  about  the  global 
consequences of conflicts; above all, it expresses deep 
regret for the countless victims of those wars and joins 
its voice to the plea of all those who suffer.
We must acknowledge that, over the past 70 years, 
the  United  Nations  has  succeeded  in  avoiding  a  great 
global conflict and the outbreak of many wars between 
Member  States.  At  the  same  time,  it  has  also  halted 
or  resolved  many  regional  conflicts  and  complex 
instances of civil war. Nonetheless, there are at present 
at least 50 conflicts or situations of latent conflict, to 
say nothing of the actions of international terrorist and 
criminal organizations set up as quasi-States and as a 
sort  of  alternative  international  community.  We  have 
before  us,  unfortunately,  the  immense  tragedy  of  the 
war in Syria with its thousands of dead, its millions of 
displaced persons and its tremendous consequences for 
the stability of the region.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29940 (E)
*1529940*
A/70/PV.27 
02/10/2015
Similarly, the troubles in Libya, Central Africa, the 
Great  Lakes  region  and  South  Sudan  must  remain  at 
the  centre  of  the  international  community’s  attention. 
Nor can the tragic situation in Ukraine be overlooked 
or  many  other  smaller  or  more  contained  conflicts, 
violations of humanitarian law or the atypical warfare 
waged  by  drug  traffickers  and  other  criminal  groups. 
Then  there  is  the  grave  conflict  in  the  Middle  East, 
which  has  been  going  on  since  the  first  years  of  the 
United Nations. That region, a cradle of civilizations, 
is  immersed  in  a  situation  that  combines  every  form 
of  conflict  and  every  possible  subject  —  State  and 
non-State  combatants,  ethnic  and  cultural  groups, 
terrorism, criminality and so on.
that  characterize 
The  atrocities  and  unspeakable  human  rights 
today’s  conflicts  are 
violations 
transmitted live by the media, and with wide diffusion 
and repetition they risk generating a numbing familiarity 
and indifference. The international community, for its 
part, must feel a grave responsibility to act resolutely 
and  renew  its  political  and  juridical  structures,  so  as 
to  limit  and  overcome,  as  quickly  and  effectively  as 
possible,  the  consequences  of  the  current  war-related 
crises.
It  is  a  bitter  irony  that  the  seventieth  anniversary 
of the United Nations is accompanied by an exodus of 
peoples  that  is  the  greatest  such  migration  seen  since 
that caused by the Second World War. Entire populations 
are being displaced, as they flee from war, persecution, 
exploitation and poverty. Sadly, however, those waves 
of  migrants  are  seen  more  in  terms  of  the  additional 
burden of unforeseen problems that they cause for the 
countries of passage or destination than in terms of the 
cost of human life paid by millions of innocent people. 
Furthermore,  as  a  response  to  such  mass  migrations, 
the  fear  of  terrorism  and  other  local  problems,  there 
has been a return to the practice of building walls and 
barriers  between  peoples.  That  is  a  sad  example  of 
inhumanity, a hasty and ineffective solution to security 
and one that we thought the events of the late 1980s had 
definitively consigned to oblivion.
At  the  same  time,  the  Holy  See  urgently  appeals 
to States to overcome every form of nationalistic self-
interest  and,  above  all,  to  recognize  the  unity  of  our 
human family and to have faith in the human person. 
Distant and more recent history teaches us that migrants, 
even in the most dramatic situations of displacement, 
have always made a positive contribution to their host 
countries. More importantly, however, the migrants are 
women and men who, by virtue of their humanity, are 
entitled to the universal rights to life and dignity.
In  addition  to  offering  hospitality,  the  present 
dramatic situation urgently demands a commitment to 
address the causes that force peoples to flee and thereby 
to take real, effective and generous decisions in favour 
of peace and integral human development. The solemn 
commitment  to  implement  the  2030  Agenda  is  more 
timely than ever and must be advanced with courage. At 
the same time, we must recognize that, without peace 
between  peoples  and  nations,  it  will  be  impossible  to 
implement that Agenda.
Today, 
the  principle  of 
To  that  end,  the  Holy  See  wishes  to  suggest  four 
areas of reflection that should be borne in mind when 
considering  the  best  possible  course.  They  are  the 
responsibility  to  protect,  the  respect  for  international 
law, disarmament and the protection of the environment. 
The  first  two,  the  responsibilities  to  protect  and  to 
observe existing international law are to be considered 
necessary  instruments  for  discharging  the  immediate 
obligation to welcome exiles without putting up unjust 
barriers for the universal enactment of the 2030 Agenda, 
and likewise for the protection of the environment. 
the  responsibility 
to 
protect  all  peoples  from  massive  atrocities,  instances 
of  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and  crimes 
against  humanity  is  recognized  and  accepted  by  all. 
That  responsibility,  as  has  been  noted,  first  obliges 
national  Governments,  and  then  the  international 
community  and  regional  groups  of  States,  to  act 
in  accordance  with  international  law.  Yet  it  is  not 
always  easy  to  carry  out  that  duty  in  practice,  not 
the 
its  observance  often  conflicts 
with  a  strict  literal  interpretation  of  the  principle  of 
non-intervention,  as  sanctioned  by  paragraph  7  of 
Article  2  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  There 
is  also  the  suspicion,  historically  founded,  that  under 
the guise of humanitarian intervention, the principle of 
the  sovereign  equality  of  the  Members  of  the  United 
Nations, established in paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the 
Charter, could end up being overridden.
least  because 
Nonetheless,  owing  to  the  unacceptable  human 
costs  of  inaction,  the  search  for  effective  juridical 
means for the practical application of the principle of 
the  responsibility  to  protect  must  be  one  of  the  most 
urgent central priorities of the United Nations. To that 
end, it would be most useful if the Member States could 
determine  clear  and  effective  criteria  for  applying 
2/18 
15-29940
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.27
the  principle  and  for  the  corresponding  integration 
of  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
Furthermore, drawing on the significant experience of 
the United Nations and various dependent agencies in 
peacekeeping,  peacebuilding  and  other  humanitarian 
interventions,  rapid  and  effective  means  should  be 
found  for  implementing  eventual  decisions  relative  to 
the responsibility to protect.
The great purposes and principles expressed in the 
Preamble and in Article 1 of the Charter of the United 
Nations  serve  as  a  sure  guide  to  the  interpretation 
and  application  of  all  successive  provisions  of  the 
Charter.  Therefore,  the  solemn  duties  spelled  out  in 
the Preamble “to save succeeding generations from the 
scourge of war” and “to reaffirm faith in fundamental 
human  rights,  in  the  dignity  and  worth  of  the  human 
person”  and  in  paragraph  3  of  Article  1,  to  promote 
and  encourage  “respect  for  human  rights  and  for 
fundamental  freedom  for  all”  not  only  justify  the 
implementation of the responsibility to protect, but also 
bind the international community in the duty to find the 
appropriate means to do so. Otherwise, the great edifice 
of the Charter of the United Nations would be reduced 
to a mere tool for maintaining global equilibrium and 
for resolving controversies. That would betray not only 
those who drafted the Charter, but also the millions of 
victims whose blood was shed in the great wars of the 
last century.
The second element that today’s conflicts, and the 
humanitarian  crises  they  cause,  force  us  to  consider 
is  what  we  might  call  the  responsibility  to  observe 
the  existing  law  in  responding  to  global  and  regional 
crises.  That  requires,  first  of  all,  a  genuine  and 
transparent  application  of  Article  2  of  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations. The principle of non-intervention, 
sanctioned in paragraph 7 of that Article, together with 
paragraphs 3 and 4, excludes all unilateral use of force 
against  another  Member  of  the  United  Nations  and 
demands full respect for Governments that are lawfully 
constituted and recognized.
Article  2  cannot,  however,  become  an  alibi  for 
excusing  gross  violations  of  human  rights.  The  70-
year  experience  of  the  United  Nations  has  amply 
demonstrated that grave violations of human dignity on 
the part of Governments can be redressed and resolved 
peacefully  through  denunciation  and  persuasion  by 
civil  society  and  Governments  themselves.  Where 
gross  violations  of  human  rights  persist  and  further 
intervention  is  considered  necessary,  the  only  other 
recourse is to apply the measures set forth in Chapters 
VI  and  VII  of  the  Charter.  In  addition,  adherence  to 
the  Charter,  as  well  as  to  the  cardinal  principle  of 
international law, namely, pacta sunt servanda, which is 
no tautology but rather the affirmation of the rule of law 
itself, has definitively banned concepts such as that of 
preventive war and, even more so, attempts to redesign 
entire  geographic  areas  and  redistribute  populations 
under the pretext of a principle of security. At the same 
time, the most evident and reasonable understanding of 
paragraph  4  of  Article  2  of  the  Charter  excludes  any 
intervention by third-party States in favour of one side 
or another in a situation of civil conflict.
A  serious  examination  of  conscience  is  needed, 
so  that  we  can  accept  responsibility  for  the  role  that 
certain  unilateral  interventions  have  played  in  the 
humanitarian crisis that is causing so much hurt in our 
world today. As Pope Francis recently said,
“[W]e do not lack for hard evidence of the negative 
consequences of military and political interventions 
undertaken  without  coordination  among 
the 
members  of 
community.” 
(A/70/PV.3, p. 5)
international 
the 
The current crisis calls us, therefore, to renew efforts to 
apply the law that is in force and to develop new norms 
that  are  also  aimed  at  combating  the  phenomenon  of 
international terrorism, in full respect for the law.
Multilateral  action 
for  peace  and  collective 
security  can  be  effectively  advanced  with  the  help  of 
another instrument recognized by the Charter and often 
considered  in  the  Assembly,  namely,  disarmament. 
Here,  too,  we  find  ourselves  in  an  area  of  light  and 
shadows,  with  the  latter,  unfortunately,  prevailing. 
There  is  the  telling  example  of  the  failure  in  May  of 
the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  In  view 
of  that  impasse,  it  is  all  the  more  important  that  the 
international  community  and  the  individual  States 
most involved clearly signal a real desire to pursue the 
shared objective of a world free of nuclear arms, in full 
application of the Treaty, in letter and spirit, with the 
goal of a complete prohibition of such weapons.
As  Pope  Francis  has  noted  in  various  forums, 
nuclear  deterrence  and  the  threat  of  mutually  assured 
destruction are irreconcilable with and contrary to an 
ethic  of  fraternity  and  peaceful  coexistence  between 
peoples  and  between  States.  In  the  final  analysis, 
the  nuclear  arms  race,  and  indeed  the  arms  race  in 
15-29940
3/18
A/70/PV.27 
02/10/2015
general,  with  its  expenditure  of  human  and  economic 
resources,  is  based  on  a  denial  of  the  human  dignity 
of one’s potential enemies and even the denial of one’s 
own dignity and survival. A process aimed at a deeper 
understanding of the grave humanitarian effects of the 
use of weapons of mass destruction, and nuclear arms 
in particular, should therefore not only be encouraged 
but should be considered necessary.
With  regard  to  the  humanitarian  dimension,  I 
should  also  mention  the  Anti-Personnel  Mine  Ban 
Convention and the Convention on Cluster Munitions, 
two  instruments  for  disarmament  and  for  adapting 
humanitarian law to the complexities of today’s world. 
They  are  aimed  at  stigmatizing  and  banning  those 
dreadful ordnances, which have such a devastating and 
indiscriminate impact on civilian populations. The Holy 
See joins all those who are working for their effective 
implementation  in  expressing  the  hope  that  they  will 
soon be signed by those States that have not yet done so.
Effective  and  full  enactment  of  the  principles  of 
the Charter of the United Nations calls for replacing a 
mindset of thr rejection of others, of distrust and fear, 
with an ethic of responsibility. That, too, demands that 
we reflect on the meaning of the concept of collective 
security, which has to do not only with war and military 
actions  but  also  with  broader  economic,  financial, 
ethical, social and humanitarian dimensions.
Looking ahead, we see another grave responsibility, 
both  for  the  effective  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda  and  for  peace  itself.  That  is  the  hoped-for 
agreement  on  climate  change,  which  is  to  be  adopted 
at  the  Paris  Conference  in  December.  The  climate  is 
a  global  common  good,  a  responsibility  that  we  all 
bear, particularly towards the most vulnerable groups 
of present and future generations. It is a responsibility 
that  is  necessarily  transversal,  requiring  effective 
multilateral  and  interdisciplinary  cooperation  on  the 
part  of  individuals,  based  on  their  own  abilities  and 
characteristics, but united in the face of the challenging 
question  as  to  the  kind  of  world  we  want  to  leave  to 
those  who  come  after  us,  to  children  who  are  now 
growing up.
The Paris Conference represents an important phase 
in  the  process  of  re-establishing  a  balance  between 
global  greenhouse-gas  emissions  and 
the  Earth’s 
capacity to absorb them. To that end, we urgently need 
to  adopt  a  fair,  transformational  and  legally  binding 
global  agreement.  That  would  send  a  meaningful 
signal  to  the  entire  international  community,  by 
promoting  a  rapid  transition  to  development  marked 
by a low carbon footprint and by providing a powerful 
impetus  to  reinforcing  the  intrinsic  link  between 
two  objectives  —  eradicating  poverty  and  easing  the 
effects  of  climate  change.  That  link  shows  that  the 
threat  of  climate  change  and  our  responses  to  it  can 
be  a  promising  opportunity  for  improving  health, 
transportation, energy security and new opportunities 
for employment. An effective accord on those issues, in 
addition to the important value they possess in and of 
themselves, can only contribute to general agreements 
between States regarding integral human development, 
the  responsibility  to  protect,  peace,  disarmament  and 
respect for international law.
To  acknowledge  the  limitations  of  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations with regard to new crisis situations 
or, sadly, in the face of evidence of a failure to observe 
its  prescriptions,  is  not  the  same  thing  as  stating  or 
lamenting  the  failure  of  the  Organization  itself.  Such 
limitations  are  rather  the  inevitable  shadows  of  the 
great framework of the first global project for peace and 
international cooperation, which has, happily, endured 
for 70 years and is an incentive to achieving full respect 
for the law in force and to promoting greater trust and 
cooperation.  The  Holy  See  thus  expresses  the  hope 
that this seventieth anniversary, marked by the solemn 
adoption of the 2030 Agenda, may be the beginning of a 
harmonious and ever fuller cooperation for the benefit 
of all humankind.
Pope  Benedict  XVI,  in  2008,  and  Pope  Paul  VI, 
during  his  visit  50  years  ago  for  the  Organization’s 
twentieth anniversary, both pointed out that the United 
Nations is called increasingly to serve as a sign of unity 
among States and an instrument of service to the entire 
human family, and that, consequently, the Organization 
represents  the  obligatory  path  of  modern  civilization 
and world peace. The United Nations must, therefore, 
become  a  place  where  a  true  family  of  nations  and 
peoples can meet and prosper, a place where all forms 
of  war  and  unilateral  intervention  will  be  forever 
prohibited, not only in words, but above all in the spirit 
and intentions of every governmental authority.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  the  representative  of  the  Socialist  Republic  of 
Viet Nam.
Mrs. Nguyen Phuong Nga (Viet Nam): On behalf 
of the Vietnamese delegation, I would like to warmly 
4/18 
15-29940
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.27
congratulate  Mr.  Lykketoft  upon  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session. I believe that, with his wisdom and experience, 
he will guide our session to a very successful outcome. 
My delegation also applauds the important contributions 
made by Mr. Sam Kutesa, President of the sixty-ninth 
session,  and  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  during 
the past year.
Born  from  the  ashes  of  the  Second  World  War, 
the  United  Nations  has  grown,  during  the  past  seven 
decades, to embrace 193 States and has become the most 
representative global organization and the true centre 
for the coordination of global efforts to tackle common 
challenges. As a beacon of hope, the United Nations has 
indeed helped make the world a better place by playing 
an  increasingly  important  role  in  maintaining  peace 
and security, in protecting and promoting human rights 
and in advancing development and progress.
Guided  by  its  Charter,  the  United  Nations  has 
worked  to  uphold  the  principles  of  respect  for  the 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  States  and  of 
non-interference in the internal affairs of other nations. 
The  Organization  has  promoted  the  non-use  of  force 
or  of  threats  to  use  force  in  inter-State  relations  and 
had  provided  guidance  for  peaceful  and  amicable 
relations  among  nations,  underlining,  in  particular, 
the  importance  of  mutual  respect,  good  faith  and  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes. It is in that spirit that 
we welcome the recent progress made in addressing the 
Iranian  nuclear  issue,  which  is  a  first  step  towards  a 
long-term solution that could bring peace, security and 
stability  to  the  broader  region.  We  also  welcome  the 
normalization  of  relations  between  the  United  States 
and Cuba and call for the timely lifting of the embargoes 
currently imposed upon the brotherly Cuban people.
We can all look back on the past 70 years and the 
accomplishments  of  the  United  Nations  with  pride, 
but  we  must  also  recognize  what  the  Organization 
has  been  unable  to  do  and  what  challenges  lie  ahead. 
Wars  and  conflicts  have  not  been  uncommon  during 
the past decades and still rage today. Terrorism, violent 
extremism,  and  religious  and  ethnic  intolerance  pose 
serious threats to regional and international peace and 
security.  Territorial  and  maritime  disputes  endanger 
peace  and  stability  in  many  regions.  Threats  to  the 
very survival of humankind persist. Nuclear  weapons 
arsenals, though reduced, are still capable of destroying 
our  home  planet  many  times  over.  Climate  change 
is  threatening  the  livelihoods  of  billions  of  people 
and  even  the  existence  of  many  countries.  Poverty 
remains  one  of  the  greatest  challenges  to  sustainable 
development. Violence, discrimination, social injustice 
and  humanitarian  crises  plague  everyone’s  enjoyment 
of their human rights.
Immense  challenges  require  equally 
immense 
efforts, and the United Nations must continue to play 
a central role in those endeavours. Viet Nam welcomes 
the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1), which sets the vision and 
creates the framework for all nations as they strive to 
eliminate hunger and poverty, develop more sustainable 
patterns of production and consumption and work for 
the improved preservation of our shared planet, which 
is  faced  with  the  threats  of  climate  change  and  over-
consumption.  The  full  and  effective  implementation 
of  the  new  Agenda,  with  a  global  partnership  at  its 
core,  will  address  the  deep-rooted  causes  of  our 
present problems and guide the world towards a more 
sustainable future. 
In order to transform our world, the United Nations 
needs  to  transform  itself.  The  work  of  the  General 
Assembly needs to be revitalized so as to make it more 
focused,  efficient  and  relevant.  The  Security  Council 
needs to be more representative, democratic, transparent 
and effective. The United Nations development system 
needs  to  be  strengthened.  Institutional  reforms  must 
go alongside substantive innovations, while ensuring a 
balance  among  various  aspects  of  the  United  Nations 
work.  Our  experience  with  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals has shown that peace 
and  stability  are  the  prerequisites  for  sustainable 
development. In the words of the 2030 Agenda,
“Sustainable  development  cannot  be  realized 
without peace and security, and peace and security 
will  be  at  risk  without  sustainable  development” 
(resolution 70/1, para. 35).
It  is  therefore  incumbent  upon  each  and  every 
State  and  the  United  Nations  to  do  their  utmost  to 
ensure peace and security at the national, regional and 
international levels. Each State needs to act responsibly 
in accordance with the basic principles of the Charter 
of the United Nations and international law. Regional 
and 
the  United 
Nations  in  the  lead,  also  need  to  act  accordingly  and 
assist the States concerned to find amicable solutions 
to their differences and disputes by peaceful means, as 
provided for in the Charter. Only by doing so, can we 
international  organizations,  with 
15-29940
5/18
A/70/PV.27 
02/10/2015
hope for a future free from violence, the threat or use 
of  force,  intimidation,  coercion  and  inequities,  which 
would create an enabling environment for our common 
development.  At  the  same  time,  in  order  to  succeed, 
sustainable development must truly be of the people, by 
the people and for the people. In other words, the people 
must be at the centre of the new Agenda, as the owners, 
drivers and beneficiaries of all development efforts.
And no agenda can succeed without a strong global 
partnership  for  sustainable  development.  Viet  Nam 
has  always  believed  that  domestic  resources  play  the 
decisive role in the development of any nation, but we 
also believe that no individual country can do it alone. 
We call on the developed countries to take the lead in 
assisting developing countries in the implementation of 
the 2030 Agenda, especially in the fields of financing, 
technology transfer and human resources development. 
We  also  support  and  participate 
in  South-South 
cooperation  activities,  which,  we  believe,  provide  an 
effective  channel  for  sharing  experience,  technical 
support and capacity-building.
Like  the  United  Nations,  Viet  Nam  is  celebrating 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  its  founding  this  year. 
Immediately  after  regaining  its  independence  after 
nearly  a  century  of  colonialism,  Viet  Nam  associated 
itself with the principles and values of the Charter of 
the  United  Nations.  Our  late  President  Ho  Chi  Minh, 
the  founder  of  modern  Viet  Nam,  wrote  on  several 
occasions to world leaders to request recognition of the 
new Viet Nam and its admission to the United Nations. 
And, since becoming a Member of the United Nation in 
1977, Viet Nam has always done its best to uphold the 
principles and purposes of the Charter and contribute 
constructively  and  responsibly  to  the  work  of  the 
Organization. 
Viet  Nam  has  always  put  people  at  the  centre  of 
all  development  strategies.  Comprehensive  human 
development  encompasses  physical  and  mental  well-
being, including human rights. Viet Nam has introduced 
laws and policies to ensure that all of the human rights 
of  its  people,  including  economic,  social,  civil  and 
political rights, are respected, protected and promoted. 
Viet Nam is today party to seven out of the nine core 
international human rights treaties. It has most recently 
joined  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with 
Disabilities.
Viet Nam is strongly committed to the successful 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  At  the  national  level,  we  will  mobilize 
all available resources, engage all relevant Government 
agencies and other stakeholders, and involve the people 
and  their  communities  in  that  major  undertaking. 
Viet  Nam  pledges  its  support  for  the  conclusion  of  a 
meaningful  agreement  at  the  upcoming  meeting  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris. For 
its part, Viet Nam has recently submitted its Intended 
Nationally Determined Contributions.
At  the  regional  level,  we  have  joined  efforts  with 
our brothers and sisters of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations (ASEAN) to work towards strengthening 
the  ASEAN  community.  As  an  integral  part  of  the 
dynamically  growing  Asia-Pacific  region,  ASEAN 
plays a crucial role in regional development. But for our 
region to thrive, peace and stability must come first. It 
is therefore of vital importance that peace and stability 
be  maintained  and  that  maritime  safety  and  security 
and  the  freedom  of  navigation  and  overflight  in  the 
South  China  Sea  be  secured.  Viet  Nam  is  working 
tirelessly with other ASEAN members and all parties 
concerned  to  that  end,  including  by  calling  upon  all 
parties  to  refrain  from  the  threat  or  use  of  force  and 
to settle all disputes by peaceful means in accordance 
with  international  law,  including  the  1982  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. We are also 
engaging with partners to ensure the full and effective 
implementation  of  the  Declaration  on  the  Conduct  of 
Parties in the South China Sea and to work for the early 
conclusion of a code of conduct.
At  the  international  level,  Viet  Nam  is  prepared 
to  further  its  active  contributions  to  world  peace  and 
security  and  the  well-being  of  all.  That  is  why  we 
are  stepping  up  our  participation  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  and  have  put  forward  our 
candidatures for the Economic and Social Council for 
2016-2018,  the  UNESCO  Executive  Board  for  2015-
2019 and the Security Council for 2020-2021. We look 
forward to receiving Members’ continued support.
To  free  our  people  from  fear  and  want  and  to 
leave no one behind, let us all join our actions on this 
path  towards  a  better  and  more  sustainable  future. 
Let  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  be  our  source 
of  inspiration  and  the  2030  Agenda  be  our  guide  in 
building a world of peace, security and prosperity for 
our people and succeeding generations.
6/18 
15-29940
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.27
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the floor to the representative of Turkmenistan.
Mrs.  Ataeva  (Turkmenistan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
It gives me great pleasure to join previous speakers in 
warmly  congratulating  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  on  his 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its seventieth session and to wish him success. Allow 
me also to express my appreciation to Mr. Sam Kutesa 
for the tremendous work that he carried out as President 
of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session.  I  also 
congratulate the United Nations and all delegations on 
the seventieth anniversary and wish our Organization 
continued success, universal recognition and respect.
In its approach to the major themes of the current 
session, Turkmenistan believes there is a need to take 
concrete  and  targeted  measures  aimed  at  supporting 
States and regions where, for various reasons, the issues 
of sustainable development are particularly acute. 
With  regard  to  Central  Asia,  there  is  currently 
discussion about the creation of the conditions enabling 
its successful integration into modern global processes 
and  its  rebirth  as  a  region  that  provides  a  stable  and 
strong  link  in  intercontinental  partnerships.  I  am 
convinced  that  that  is  an  achievable  goal,  if  we  can 
ensure peace, tranquillity and security, which are key 
factors  for  the  development,  progress  and  prosperity 
of  the  Central  Asian  States.  That  has  been  the  focus 
of  Turkmenistan’s  major  efforts  and  the  projects  and 
initiatives  that  it  is  carrying  out,  which  it  invites  the 
international  community,  represented  by  the  United 
Nations, to join.
One  of  the  projects  is  the  idea  of    establishing  a 
United  Nations  regional  centre  in  Central  Asia  for 
technology  related  to  climate  change.  The  large-scale 
environmental problems that exist in that region are, I 
think, well known. They directly or indirectly affect the 
overall atmosphere in the region, as well as the standard 
of living and the quality of life of the inhabitants, and 
sometimes have a negative impact on relations between 
States.  Under  those  conditions,  it  is  becoming  clear 
that there is a need for a specialized international body 
that would be able, with a United Nations mandate, to 
carry  out  monitoring  and  an  objective  analysis  of  the 
environmental processes and trends occurring there and, 
on that basis, be able to issue relevant recommendations 
to  the  Governments  of  the  Central  Asian  States.  The 
vision for the functions and directions of the activities 
of such a centre already exist. Turkmenistan is ready to 
provide all the necessary infrastructure for the centre 
in  Turkmenistan  and  to  ensure  the  most  favourable 
conditions for its staff. I therefore call for an in-depth 
consideration  of  our  proposal  on  the  creation  of  a 
United  Nations  regional  centre  for  technology  related 
to climate change in Central Asia.
The  achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  in  the  region  will  not  be  possible  without  the 
participation  of  our  closest  neighbour,  Afghanistan. 
The  brotherly  Afghan  people  and  Government  are 
today  particularly  in  need  of  the  political  and  moral 
support of the international community. They also need 
real,  tangible  economic  assistance.  Time  has  shown 
that  the  resolution  of  the  situation  in  Afghanistan  is 
possible only through peaceful, political means on the 
basis of a broad national dialogue with the participation 
of all responsible and constructive forces representing 
the  Afghan  people.  Moreover,  we  are  convinced  that 
the process of reconciliation must be accompanied by 
effective  international  economic  assistance,  targeted 
measures  aimed  at  creating  social  infrastructure  and 
humanitarian assistance.
We  believe  that  the  most  important  factor  in  the 
stability, progress and prosperity of Afghanistan is the 
integration of the country into regional and international 
energy  and  transportation  projects.  Projects  such  as 
the  Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India  Pipeline 
and the railway from Turkmenistan to Afghanistan are 
designed to ensure economic growth and the creation 
of new jobs in Afghanistan and favourable conditions 
for  foreign  investment.  Not  least  important,  their 
implementation will have a significant stabilizing effect 
on the political climate in Afghanistan itself, as well as 
on the surrounding area. It will also restore the Afghan 
people’s confidence in their own strength and capacity 
to build a modern, stable and dynamic State, one that 
is an equal and like-minded partner with neighbouring 
countries and the entire international community. As an 
initiator and participant in those international projects, 
Turkmenistan  will  continue  to  provide  assistance  to 
Afghanistan  at  the  bilateral  level  for  the  construction 
of economic and social facilities, as well as to supply 
energy at a discounted rate and to provide training for 
Afghan professionals in our educational institutions.
In  the  context  of  Afghanistan’s  restoration,  the 
support  provided  to  both  developing  and  the  least 
developed  countries,  on  which 
the  effectiveness 
of  today’s  entire  system  of  international  relations 
depends,  is  of  over-arching  importance.  Therefore, 
15-29940
7/18
A/70/PV.27 
02/10/2015
for  Turkmenistan,  the  main  goal  and  essence  of  post-
2015  sustainable  development  should  be  to  overcome 
the  serious  —  and  I  would  even  say  borderline 
dangerous  —  imbalance  between  States,  regions  and 
entire  continents,  in  terms  of  industry,  the  economy, 
technology and the environment, as well as with respect 
to people’s quality of life and in the areas of health care, 
education and in the standards and structures of food 
systems.  It  is  obvious  that  humanitarian  assistance 
alone, as well as supplies of medicine and provisions, 
along with one-time financial infusions by the United 
Nations  and 
individual  States,  while  extremely 
important, will not solve the problem.
Today, there is a need for a long-term, in-depth and 
well  thought-out  strategy  for  support  for  developing 
and  the  least  developed  countries  that  includes  a 
wide  range  of  political, 
legal,  economic,  social 
and  investment  measures.  An  action-oriented  and 
coordinating role should be played here by the United 
Nations, in particular its Economic and Social Council 
and  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme,  as 
well  as  other  specialized  agencies.  A  more  important 
factor for such support is, in our view, the participation 
of  such  countries  in  international  economic  projects, 
in  particular  in  the  area  of  the  transport  of  energy  to 
global  markets,  as  well  as  the  creation  of  transport 
corridors between regions and across continents.
Turkmen  initiatives  for  the  development  of  such 
sectors of the global economy have received unanimous 
approval  from  the  General  Assembly  through  the 
adoption of relevant resolutions. We expect meaningful 
follow-up  through  their  implementation.  I  would  also 
like to emphasize the readiness of our country to both 
continue  and  strengthen  cooperation  with  the  World 
Health  Organization,  the  United  Nations  World  Food 
Programme,  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund  and 
other entities.
The  current  session  should  provide  us  with  clear 
guidelines for the future. It is natural and appropriate 
that  it  is  the  United  Nations,  the  international  entity 
with a universal mandate, that will act as the leader in 
promoting and achieving the Sustainable Development 
Goals. The tremendous potential of the United Nations, 
which has been acquired over seven decades of unique 
experience  of  dealing  with  the  challenges  and  threats 
and  providing  solutions  for  many  global  problems, 
proves that only together, by joining forces, will it be 
possible  for  us  to  achieve  the  goals  we  have  set,  no 
matter how difficult they may be.
Turkmenistan  believes  that  today,  within  these 
walls,  significant  momentum  will  be  given  to  our 
forward  movement  and  to the  new,  more  humane  and 
more  just  world  order.  Together  with  the  family  of 
nations we are prepared to participate in that work.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on the respresentative of Peru.
Mr. Meza Cuadra (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): It is 
an honour for me to address the General Assembly and 
to convey my congratulations to President Lykketoft on 
his election. Peru is ready to contribute to the success 
of his mandate.
Seventy  years  ago,  we  established  the  United 
Nations  Organization  so  as  to  maintain  international 
peace  and  security,  promote  and  protect  human 
rights  and  cooperate  at  the  international  level  for 
the  development  of  our  peoples.  We  now  renew  our 
commitment to its purposes and principles and affirm 
the need to continue working to ensure that its vision 
becomes  a  tangible  reality  for  all  and  that  we  leave 
future generations a sustainable planet.
My  country  is  particularly  proud  to  have  been 
a  founding  member  of  the  Organization  and  to  have 
steadfastly  been  committed  to  its  Charter  and  to 
multilateralism.  We  would  like  now  to  recall  three 
illustrious  Peruvians  who  held  three  high-ranking 
posts:  Ambassador  Javier  Pérez  de  Cuéllar,  who  was 
Secretary-General; the former President of Peru, José 
Luis  Bustamante  y  Rivero,  who  was  President  of  the 
International Court of Justice; and Mr. Víctor Andrés 
Belaúnde, who was President of the General Assembly.
There is no doubt that the United Nations system 
has  contributed,  and  continues  to  contribute,  a  great 
deal to the progress of humankind. We must realize that, 
for over 70 years, we have not seen another major war 
such as the ones that beset the world in the first half of 
the twentieth century, nor has there been an economic 
crisis  of  the  magnitude  of  the  Great  Depression. 
However, there is no doubt that the achievements of the 
United Nations have not reached everyone equally. The 
world compels us to rethink what kind of Organization 
it is that we need and to redouble our efforts to ensure 
that peace and security, human rights and sustainable 
development are truly universal. 
Peru attaches the greatest importance to the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). 
We  have  agreed  to  transform  the  world  in  a  single 
8/18 
15-29940
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.27
generation  in  a  process  throughout  which  our  people 
have  been  heard  and  our  cultural  diversity  has  been 
acknowledged  as  a  catalyst  for  development.  For 
the  first  time  in  history,  humankind  has  a  universal 
instrument 
through  which  we  have  committed 
ourselves  to  eradicating  poverty  in  all  its  forms  and 
dimensions  and  to  achieving  sustainable  development 
over the next 15 years without leaving anyone behind. 
In  fact,  we  have  decided  to  strengthen  and  renew  the 
global  partnership  for  sustainable  development.  In 
line  with  Peru’s  priorities  for  social  inclusion,  we  are 
happy  to  see  that  the  2030  Agenda  reflects  that  same 
transformational  character  throughout..  We  must  be 
inclusive  in  order  to  grow,  and  we  must  give  priority 
to the economic and social groups that have been left 
behind and those that are most vulnerable, which, more 
often than not, include indigenous peoples, the elderly, 
persons with disabilities and migrants.
In order to implement the new Agenda it is essential 
to allocate sufficient resources. We need to increase the 
budgets for programmes that involve social inclusion, 
especially in the fields of health and education, giving 
priority to the care of our children, gender equality and 
the empowerment of women. Peru considers it vital to 
adopt at the twenty-first meeting of the Conference of 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Conference 
on Climate Change, to be held in Paris in December, a 
universally binding, ambitious and balanced agreement 
to  address  climate  change.  As  the  current  Acting 
President of that Conference, Peru is sparing no effort 
to  reach  that  goal,  in  accordance  with  the  Lima  Call 
for Climate Action. Climate change and environmental 
challenges are endless. The experts say that we will be 
facing  a  particularly  serious  situation  with  regard  to 
El Niño over the next few years. We must invest more 
in  disaster  prevention  and  risk  reduction  as  part  of 
our development plans. Peru, a country of stupendous 
biodiversity, would also like to call attention to the great 
potential of biodiversity for development. In that regard, 
we  are  particularly  concerned  about  the  preservation 
and sustainable use of land and sea ecosystems. 
As  is  the  case  with  sustainable  development, 
the  United  Nations  must  make  strides  in  the  area  of 
international  peace  and  security  in  order  to  ensure 
respect  for  and  promotion  of  human  rights.  Peru 
commends the important progress that has been made 
towards  achieving  peace  in  the  sister  Republic  of 
Colombia. We also welcome the restoration of relations 
between  the  Republic  of  Cuba  and  the  United  States, 
and  we  again  appeal  for  an  end  to  the  economic  and 
financial blockade.
Concerning the question of Palestine, the Security 
Council must be proactive in promoting a dialogue that 
leads  to  direct  negotiations.  Palestinians  and  Israelis 
should live together in peace and should prosper in two 
States  within  secure  and  internationally  recognized 
borders.  The  status  quo 
is  unsustainable.  Peru 
reaffirms its commitment to defending and promoting 
human rights, the rule of law, the peaceful resolution of 
disputes and conflict prevention.
recognized.  We 
We believe that the jurisdiction of the International 
Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court 
should  be  universally 
therefore 
encourage  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  fully 
accede to their respective statutes. We must strengthen 
our ability to react to humanitarian crises and prevent 
impunity  for  atrocities.  No  State  can  ignore  the 
responsibility  to  protect  human  beings.  Peru  deplores 
the  situation  that  has  developed  in  Syria  and  the  evil 
crimes of the so-called Islamic State.
We  must  ensure  the  continued  legitimacy  of  the 
Security  Council.  It  is  vital  that  we  work  to  achieve 
its  comprehensive  reform,  both  in  its  composition 
and  working  methods  and  by  restricting  the  use  of 
the  veto,  if  we  are  to  ensure  its  representativeness 
and  effectiveness.  In  that  regard,  Peru  has  been 
working  within  the  Accountability,  Consistency  and 
Transparency  group  on  the  adoption  of  a  code  of 
conduct  that  can  guide  the  Security  Council’s  action 
where heinous crimes are concerned.
Aware  of  the  new  tasks  included  in  the  mandates 
of  peacekeeping  operations,  Peru  will  be  sending 
an  engineering  company 
the  United  Nations 
Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization  Mission 
in  the  Central  African  Republic,  the  first  time  that  a 
Peruvian company has deployed outside our region.
to 
Peru  has  been  working  to  deal  decisively  and 
effectively with the global drug problem. In that regard, 
we have been implementing a successful strategy with 
a comprehensive approach that includes actions aimed 
at  prevention,  control  and  interdiction,  as  well  as 
sustainable  alternative  development  programmes  for 
farmers. In the past year, as a result of that strategy, we 
recorded a net reduction in illicit crops that was almost 
14  per  cent  greater  and  cocaine  seizures  that  were 
40 per cent higher than the fugures for 2013. In the past 
year  alone,  we  expanded  our  alternative  development 
15-29940
9/18
A/70/PV.27 
02/10/2015
programmes  to  cover  more  than  50,000  hectares,  and 
we have reforested about 15,000 hectares that had been 
affected by illicit crops. The special session in 2016 that 
the General Assembly will devote to the scourge of drugs 
should  reaffirm  full  enforcement  of  the  international 
conventions  relating  to  drugs  and  the  commitment  to 
addressing the problem through national strategies.
We  also  consider  it  very  important  to  continue 
promoting an environment conducive, at every level, to 
effective arms control, including limiting conventional 
weapons and enforcing the non-proliferation of weapons 
of mass destruction. We reaffirm our commitment to the 
Arms Trade Treaty and the principles of disarmament 
and nuclear non-proliferation, without prejudice to the 
inalienable right of all States to research and produce 
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
As  I  noted  at  the  beginning  of  my  statement,  the 
international  community  is  taking  on  the  ambitious 
task of transforming the world by eradicating poverty 
and  achieving  sustainable  development  through  its 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda.  In  order  to 
achieve  the  new  Agenda’s  Goals,  States  will  have  to 
significantly increase the resources that they dedicate 
to  the  implementation  of  the  Goals  and  strengthen 
international  cooperation  in  every  way.  A  renewed 
global partnership should also strengthen cooperation 
in  the  field  of  disarmament  and  non-proliferation 
and  promote  confidence-building  measures  aimed 
at  preventing  conflicts,  arms  races  and  humanitarian 
crises,  because  without  peace 
there  can  be  no 
development.  Seventy  years  after  its  creation,  this 
Organization  can  and  should  contribute  to  making  a 
reality of the future we all want.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on the representative of Honduras.
Ms.  Flores  (Honduras)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 
are  speaking  in  the  Assembly  today,  as  His  Holiness 
Pope  Francis  said,  as  an  afterthought.  The  President 
of  Honduras,  Juan  Orlando  Hernández  Alvarado, 
appeared  a  few  days  ago  in  this  Hall,  addressing  the 
Sustainable  Development  Summit  (see  A/70/PV.5). 
At  this  final  stage  of  the  debate  we  are  not  going  to 
overwhelm the Assembly with long speeches, when so 
many  renowned  leaders,  speaking  on  behalf  of  their 
States, have already delivered more informed views on 
the contentious issues that concern us.
All of us who have the singular privilege of using 
this  unique  platform  in  this  unique  forum,  where  we 
discuss  feelings,  opinions,  criticisms  and  reflections 
on  the  world’s  most  important  issues,  are  influenced 
by  the  places  that  we  come  from  and  our  particular 
perspectives on the world. It could not be otherwise, for 
we are the products of our origins and environment. It 
is natural that those of us who come from places of dire 
deprivation,  pressing  needs  and  miserable  exclusion, 
see things differently from those from areas of wealth, 
abundance,  power  and  superiority.  We  even  differ  in 
how we understand the universal terms of law, justice 
and  equity.  It  is  even  true  that  we  can  question  what 
is the truth itself, if we are not familiar with another’s 
perception of the truth.
We  all  react  according  to  our  own  reality.  How 
can victims who have to leave their homes and embark 
on  terrible  migrations  for  reasons  of  extreme  poverty 
or  situations  of  overwhelming  violence,  in  search  of 
a  better  life  and  an  unclouded  future  for  their  loved 
ones, understand the concept of law and justice in the 
same  way  as  those  who  enjoy  all  possible  assurances 
and  opportunities  and  who  do  not  want  their  comfort 
disrupted by inconvenient strangers? Perhaps what we 
do  not  see  in  this  dichotomy  in  the  interpretation  of 
essential  human  values  is  that  there  can  be  no  peace 
or security for anyone unless there is peace and well-
being  for  all.  There  is  no  stone  wall,  no  human  law, 
no physical obstacle that can contain the movement of 
human beings being compelled by the right to life.
Of course, it is our homelands that we belong to and 
that our hearts return to, our inalienable lands with their 
tears and smiles, setbacks and celebrations, hardships 
and riches, boundaries and expanses, reservations and 
dreams, gaps and opportunities. We all want to be born 
and die in our homelands. But for many, the cradle can 
sometimes also be the fence that limits us and constrains 
our yearning for the possible. The shadows of fear created 
by  insecurity  and  the  struggle  for  survival  provoked 
by scarcity are powerful forces that can drive anyone 
to leave their homes and undertake a terrible journey 
to the unknown. Serious and desperate circumstances 
compel people to leave what they cherish the most. The 
urge  to  survive  and  the  attachment  to  freedom  know 
no  borders.  Mass  migrations  are  only  a  symptom  of 
other acute problems that must be addressed. And we 
all have a responsibility to address those problems, but, 
first  and  foremost,  we  need  to  produce  results  rather 
than just promises, because despair saps even the most 
long-suffering patience.
10/18 
15-29940
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.27
The answer to that serious dilemma is not something 
that we have to invent. It lies at the foundation of the 
natural values of civilization, in the divine principles of 
spirituality where all religions converge, in the doctrines 
of the Charter of the United Nations that inspired the 
very  existence  of  the  United  Nations  —  harmonious 
and respectful coexistence among brothers and sisters 
of the same world family, where all of us are citizens 
of  a  common  home,  regardless  of  race,  gender,  creed 
or  origin;  and  where  there  is,  of  course,  universal 
solidarity, so that no one abuses resources that others 
lack, and the offer of a fraternal hand where it is needed.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on the representative of the Republic of Kiribati.
Mr.  Baaro  (Kiribati):  It  is  an  honour  and  a 
privilege to address this historic seventieth session of 
the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  President,  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Kiribati.  In  Kiribati 
we begin all formal events such as this by conferring 
blessings  on  all.  I  therefore  wish  to  begin  by  sharing 
with the Assembly all our traditional Kiribati blessing 
of peace and good health, “Kam na bane ni Mauri”.
the  President  of 
in  congratulating 
I  echo  the  sentiments  conveyed  by  previous 
speakers 
the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session  on  his 
election and for presiding over the recently concluded 
historic  Summit  for  the  adoption  of  the  post-2015 
development agenda, held from 25 to 27 September. On 
his  assumption  of  the  presidency  for  the  first  year  of 
the  implementation  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1), I wish to assure him of 
the full support and cooperation of Kiribati. Let me also 
take this opportunity to acknowledge with appreciation 
the  commendable  leadership  of  his  predecessor,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  for  his  stewardship  over 
the past year as the President of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-ninth  session  and  for  guiding  the  massive 
task of shaping the recently adopted Agenda.
I also wish to commend the unwavering commitment 
and  hard  work  of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon, 
who has served as an able navigator of our family ship, 
steering  the  United  Nations  through  the  diverse  and 
complex realities and the myriad challenges facing our 
peoples and nations around the world. In particular, I 
wish to commend his sterling leadership in guiding the 
development  of  the  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  recently  adopted  by  the  membership, 
and his personal unwavering commitment to focusing 
global attention on those who are most vulnerable and 
who are directly targeted by the many major challenges 
facing us today as a global community.
We  meet  at  a  critical  time  in  the  history  of 
multilateralism.  The  global  community  very  recently 
endorsed  a  new  post-2015  development  agenda 
“Transforming  our  world: 
the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development”. We are also celebrating the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the  United 
Nations.  In  two  months,  leaders  from  around  the 
world  will  meet  in  Paris  for  the  twenty-first  session 
of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) 
to  finalize  an  agreement  on  climate  change.  As  we 
celebrate,  we  should  also  reflect  on  the  needs  of  the 
most  fragile  and  vulnerable  peoples  and  ensure  that 
the premier global Organization remains responsive to 
them. That will be the real litmus test for its relevance.
If we as a family of nations do not act, if we fail 
to focus on the challenges faced by those in the front 
line, whatever those challenges may be, then we would 
have failed the millions who are looking to the United 
Nations to assume leadership. I would like to reiterate 
our deepest appreciation to the Secretary-General for his 
demonstrated commitment and leadership in focusing 
the  attention  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  world  on 
such issues as mitigating the plight of the most needy 
and alleviating poverty, addressing the Ebola pandemic, 
hearing  the  views  of  young  people  and  women  and 
enabling  their  participation  in  development,  ending 
gender-based  violence,  achieving  peace  and  security, 
and dealing with the question of climate change.
The  challenges  facing  us  as  we  gather  again  in 
New York for this historic session are perhaps greater 
than  they  were  a  year  ago.  Security  challenges  posed 
by  climate  change,  conflicts,  terrorism,  cybercrime, 
transnational organized crime and the mass movement 
of refugees now seen in Europe are among the looming 
challenges  that  continue  to  undermine  our  efforts  as 
a  global  family  to  achieve  sustainable  development, 
peace and security for our communities.
If  we  were  to  ask  what  the  root  causes  of  those 
major challenges were, we would be able to find many 
of  the  answers  in  the  fact  that  too  little  attention  has 
been  paid  to  the  problems  addressed  in  the  Goals 
recently endorsed in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development. The Goals are not new. Most, if not all, 
are  in  our  national  development  plans  and  strategies. 
15-29940
11/18
A/70/PV.27 
02/10/2015
What  is  new  is  the  global  call  for  the  international 
community  to  act  together  to  do  things  differently  in 
order to effect the transformational changes necessary 
to achieve the prosperous, peaceful, just and equitable 
societies  that  will  benefit  all.  That  is  crucial  in  an 
increasingly  interdependent  world  in  which  decisions 
made and actions taken in one country will have ripple 
effects elsewhere in the globe.
But in adopting the new Agenda, we must not leave 
undone  the  unfinished  business  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). Many countries, Kiribati 
included, do not have a strong scorecard with respect 
to the implementation of the MDGs, for a compelling 
reason. We, like all small island developing States, face 
major challenges in our development efforts, challenges 
which are well documented and which I will not repeat 
here.  Those  challenges  are  further  compounded  by 
climate change.
My people live on low-lying atoll islands that are no 
higher than 3 metres above sea level. With the changes 
in  our  climate  system  and  with  sea-level  rise,  our 
islands  are  now  facing  major  challenges  never  before 
faced  in  our  history.  We  have  experienced  climate 
extremes,  not  only  from  sea-level  rise  but  also  from 
disastrous natural events, such as cyclone Pam which 
hit Vanuatu and other low-lying Pacific islands, mine 
included, earlier this year, soon followed by typhoons 
Maysak and Dolphin.
High  tides  combined  with  strong  winds  wreaked 
havoc on our islands, our homes, our villages and our 
people. What is particularly alarming is the increasing 
frequency  and  severity  of  such  events.  In  some  parts 
of  the  country,  whole  villages  have  had  to  relocate 
because  of  severe  coastal  erosion  and  flooding.  Food 
crops have been destroyed and the freshwater lakes, our 
major source of drinking water, are increasingly being 
contaminated by the intruding seawater. Our people are 
worried as they watch those events grow in intensity. The 
most vulnerable are the already vulnerable — women, 
children, the disabled, the sick and the aged.
All those events have put pressure on our already 
stressed national systems and limited national resources 
and will continue to do so. Kiribati and other low-lying 
atoll  countries  such  as  Tuvalu,  the  Marshall  Islands, 
Maldives and Tokelau, as well as the millions of people 
living  in  coastal  areas  in  the  Pacific  and  around  the 
globe,  have  first  to  address  the  critical  and  pressing 
here-and-now  challenges  from  climate  change,  before 
we can even begin to talk of sustainable development 
or a new development agenda.
The  first  real  test  of  our  commitment  to  the  new 
development  agenda  adopted  by  the  international 
community  will  be  the  Paris  climate  summit.  The 
Sustainable Development Agenda will mean nothing if 
the Paris climate summit in December fails to come up 
with an ambitious and legally binding agreement that 
addresses the predicament of those on the front line of 
climate change and saves humankind by halting global 
warming.  For  us  on  the  front  line  of  climate  change, 
the Paris outcome document must include a long-term 
temperature  goal  to  limit  global  average  temperature 
increase to below 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. It 
must also include provisions on loss and damage as a 
stand-alone element that is separate and distinct from 
adaptation.
We  must  all  step  up  our  national  and  collective 
efforts  to  mitigate  global  greenhouse-gas  emissions. 
We must urge major greenhouse-gas emitters to do their 
part. Last week, my country, one of the countries with 
the  lowest  level  of  emissions,  submitted  an  ambitious 
intended  nationally  determined  contribution  to  the 
UNFCCC secretariat. We must call with urgency on our 
development partners, on philanthropic partners and on 
private businesses to assist us on the front line of the 
climate  calamity  to  deal  with  the  impacts  of  climate 
change  and  sea-level  rise  now  being  experienced  in 
our  countries  and  to  support  our  efforts  to  build  the 
resilience and preparedness of our people as they face 
an uncertain future. It is high time we recognize that the 
new challenges require us to draw on all the resources 
available  to  the  global  community  and  to  accept  that 
sustainable development and global challenges such as 
climate change should not be confined to the sphere of 
Governments alone.
Let  us  call  on  all  those  with  the  ability  to  assist 
and  with  a  contribution  to  make  to  join  in  the  global 
dialogue  and,  more  important,  to  take  part  in  urgent 
action to address this major challenge. Let us bring in 
our young people, our women, civil society, the private 
sector,  churches,  universities,  traditional  institutions 
and  indigenous  populations.  Let  us  bring  everyone 
on  board.  Let  us  be  inclusive.  Let  all  who  have  a 
contribution to make make it. 
We  welcome  the  inclusive  approach  taken  in 
developing  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  We 
also welcome the participation of Taiwan in the World 
12/18 
15-29940
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.27
Health  Assembly  —  for  example,  its  inclusion  in  the 
fight  against  Ebola  —  and  we  would  like  to  see  a 
similar  inclusive  approach  prevail  in  respect  of  other 
international institutions and United Nations processes 
in  implementing  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
and in the call for urgent climate action, where Taiwan 
and all who can participate and contribute meaningfully 
for the good of humankind must be brought in to do so. 
Everyone needs to be brought in.
“Business as usual” can no longer be our approach. 
Let us not confine ourselves to our comfort zones and 
our  usual  economic  arguments;  let  us  stop  avoiding 
our  political  taboos.  The  challenge  of  climate  change 
makes  a  larger  demand  on  us.  It  requires  that  we 
rise  above  national  priorities  and  think  with  a  global 
consciousness.  We  must  go  outside  the  bounds  of 
conventional thinking — outside the norm — because 
the  challenge  before  us  is  extraordinarily  serious  and 
therefore  calls  for  extraordinary  and  unconventional 
solutions.
It is most gratifying to note that there is an emerging 
glimmer of hope, that there is a shift in the wind in the 
dialogue on climate change. We welcome the opinion of 
His Holiness Pope Francis on climate change, together 
with the messages and expressions of commitment from 
a growing number of quarters, including capitals around 
the globe and civil society, in which climate change is 
recognized as posing a major challenge and requiring 
urgent  action.  We  welcome  this  most  gratifying  shift 
as  a  very  positive  development  in  the  right  direction, 
implying  that  the  international  community  has  at  last 
heard  our  messages  and  the  stories  we  have  shared 
about the plight of our people.
But hearing our story and recognizing that climate 
change is a major challenge is not enough; we need to 
act on it with urgency. We islands may be on the front 
line, but so are the millions of people around the world 
living in low-lying areas. They are just as vulnerable. 
So are the millions of others facing prolonged droughts, 
higher temperatures and melting glaciers. For them, like 
us,  sustainable  development  and  the  recently  adopted 
new Agenda will not mean anything, unless the global 
community  steps  up,  and  steps  up  substantially,  its 
efforts to combat climate change.
We  take  full  responsibility  for  the  future  of  our 
people  and  we  will  do  our  part.  In  Kiribati,  we  have 
adopted a multi-pronged strategy to ensure the survival 
of our people. We have bought land offshore. We have 
looked at floating and artificial islands and options for 
raising our islands from their current heights to heights 
above the predicted sea-level rises. We have embarked 
on  a  major  education  reform  programme  designed 
to  upgrade  the  skills  of  our  people  in  line  with  our 
programme on migration with dignity.
But  we  cannot  do  it  alone.  There  needs  to  be  a 
collective global effort. We call for new and accessible 
financial resources to assist the most vulnerable to adapt 
and build resilience to climate change. We welcome the 
continued assistance of our partners, including Taiwan, 
but  much,  much  more  needs  to  be  done.  While  it  is 
commendable that there have been significant pledges 
for the Green Climate Fund, there remain the challenge 
of accessibility and the translation of these pledges into 
contributions where they matter the most. We welcome 
the  assistance  provided  by  various  agencies  with  the 
capacity to provide the needed conduit, but it is equally 
important  that  such  assistance  not  get  eroded  in  the 
process.
In  celebrating  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
united family of nations, we must have confidence that, 
as we pledge in the preamble to the 2030 Sustainable 
Development  Agenda,  no  member  nation  will  be  left 
behind. It is simply not sufficient to acknowledge that 
climate  change  is  an  existential  challenge.  It  is  about 
our response as the global community and what actions 
we take as a community of moral human beings.
I reiterate that the real test of the effectiveness and 
relevance of the new Sustainable Development Agenda, 
and indeed the relevance of the united family of nations 
as it celebrates its seventieth anniversary, is in ensuring 
that no one is left behind. Yet my people and those on 
the front line of climate change face the real possibility 
of  being  left  behind.  I  therefore  call  on  the  General 
Assembly to lend its support to the voice of the most 
vulnerable and call on the international community to 
craft an ambitious legally binding agreement that can 
begin to heal our one shared home and planet. I further 
call on the General Assembly to join those on the front 
line of climate change in requesting the Conference of 
the Parties in Paris to agree that the increase in global 
average temperature should be held below 2°C or 1.5°C 
above pre-industrial levels. The climate agreement must 
also include provisions on loss and damage and, most 
important,  a  special  mechanism  to  fast-track  urgent 
assistance to the millions of people who are at the front 
line  of  climate  change  and  who  need  that  assistance 
immediately. 
15-29940
13/18
A/70/PV.27 
02/10/2015
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the floor to the representative of Guinea-Bissau.
(Guinea-Bissau) 
(spoke 
Mr.  Da  Gama 
in 
Portuguese;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): 
His  Excellency  Mr.  José  Mario  Vaz,  President  of  the 
Republic of Guinea-Bissau, has honoured me with the 
task  of  conveying  his  congratulations  to  Mr.  Mogens 
Lykketoft on his election to the presidency of the General 
Assembly at its historic seventieth session and wishes 
him great success. We would also like to commend his 
predecessor, Mr. Sam Kutesa of Uganda, for the wise 
and dignified manner in which he conducted the work 
at  the  sixty-ninth  session.  The  President’s  election  to 
the  General  Assembly  at  the  seventieth  session  takes 
place at a time when the nations of the world decided 
to adopt the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution 70/1), thereby leading humankind in a new 
direction and promoting a more just world for all. We 
believe that with his extensive experience and under his 
leadership, we can begin effectively implementing the 
Agenda.
As  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United Nations, which coincides with the forty-second 
anniversary  of  our  country’s  own 
independence, 
Guinea-Bissau continues to experience instability. That 
is reflected in its vulnerabilities and its difficulties in 
establishing the foundations necessary for the creation 
of a stable State. Those foundations are primarily geared 
to development, in fulfilment of the dream of Amílcar 
Cabral, the father of the nation. While other nations in 
the world are able to seize this moment to strengthen 
their  statehood  and  consolidate  their  institutions, 
Guinea-Bissau  continues  to  look  for  solutions  to  our 
various  domestic  problems.  The  current  political 
situation  in  Guinea-Bissau  shows  that  our  country  is 
still striving to move from fragility to stability.
Despite  the  recurrent  instability,  the  people  of 
Guinea-Bissau have never doubted the viability of our 
country, as we believe in our ability to overcome that 
challenge  once  again.  Our  determination  to  build  the 
viable  State  we  dream  of  is  and  will  always  remain 
intact. Our ability to overcome difficulties and perform 
great feats was gloriously demonstrated by our fighters 
for the freedom of the homeland, who brought about our 
independence  42  years  ago  in  an  exemplary  manner, 
under the wise leadership of our much missed Amílcar 
Cabral and in the context of his minimum programme.
Today, more than ever, we are determined to achieve 
the  maximum  programme  in  that  glorious  struggle 
and  to  promote  social  and  economic  development 
and  environmental  conservation.  Since  our  return 
to  constitutional  normality  with  the  installation  of 
the  Government  that  emerged  from  the  April  2014 
legislative  elections,  together  with  the  establishment 
of other institutions of sovereignty, we have striven to 
provide  the  basic  conditions  required  to  relaunch  our 
country’s economy and to address the new challenges 
for peacebuilding and security.
in  March  2015 
To that end, the 2015-2025 Terra Ranka development 
strategy,  presented 
in  Brussels, 
was  fully  discussed  and  approved  at  the  national 
level  and  strongly  supported  by  the  international 
community.  It  will  provide  continuity  for  the  actions 
of  the  Government,  which  is  currently  led  by  Carlos 
Correia.  That  development  strategy  is  also  consistent 
with  the  Goals  established  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  adopted  one  week  ago  by 
the General Assembly. We are convinced that the full 
implementation of the Agenda will greatly contribute, 
not only to our country’s sustainable development, but 
also  to  establishing,  once  and  for  all,  the  necessary 
conditions  for  peace  and  stability  in  our  country.  In 
that regard, once again, from this rostrum, I appeal to 
the  partners  and  friends  of  Guinea-Bissau  to  honour 
the  commitments  undertaken  in  Brussels  and  not  to 
frustrate  the  enormous  expectations  of  the  people 
of  Guinea-Bissau,  who  have  mobilized  around  that 
strategy.
Conflict  resolution  was  one  of  the  primary  goals 
that led to the establishment of our Organization in 1945. 
And today, that same goal continues to be a priority and 
one of our greatest challenges. Current conflicts have 
emerged for a variety of reasons and taken on ever more 
complex  forms,  making  them  even  more  difficult  to 
resolve. There is no political or geopolitical justification 
for the United Nations to find itself in an impasse when 
addressing the tragedies caused by the conflicts in the 
Middle East and other regions of the world, which have 
created one of the greatest refugee crises ever recorded. 
We have the moral responsibility to find a solution. In 
that  regard,  I  would  like  to  commend  the  European 
Union  and  other  countries  for  the  solidarity  that  they 
have  shown  in  providing  the  required  humanitarian 
assistance and welcoming those refugees.
Issues related to the African continent continue to 
predominate on the agenda of the Security Council, and 
14/18 
15-29940
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.27
nine of the 16 United Nations peacekeeping operations 
are  in  African  countries.  Therefore,  the  views  of 
that  continent  and  its  54  countries  must  be  heard 
and  considered  when  decisions  on  the  management 
of  conflicts  are  taken.  Our  legitimate  claim  for 
two  permanent  seats  and  broader  representation  as 
non-permanent members on the Security Council must 
be heeded. We call again for a reform of the Security 
Council, based on our belief that the historical reasons 
for the establishment of the Organization are no longer 
valid as they do not reflect the current political reality 
in the world. We also express our support for permanent 
seats for Brazil, India, Japan and Germany.
We  continue  to  believe  that  preventive  diplomacy 
can  be  more  efficient  in  preventing  and  resolving 
conflicts.  We  believe  that  the  best  way  to  prevent 
conflicts would be to invest more in combating poverty, 
promoting gender equality, education and the struggle 
against  social  discrimination,  and  preserving  the 
environment.
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  is  without  a  doubt  a  step  in  the  right 
direction, and Guinea-Bissau reiterates its commitment 
to  achieving  the  Agenda  in  accordance  with  its 
precise  terms.  To  this  end,  the  fulfilment  of  the 
commitments undertaken by our partners with respect 
to official development assistance and other funds for 
development becomes critical for the most vulnerable 
countries, including the least developed countries and 
small island developing States, such as Guinea-Bissau.
For  many  years,  it  has  been  a  tradition  for  our 
country to appeal from this rostrum for the lifting of the 
economic and financial embargo imposed by the United 
States of America against Cuba. Today, we would like 
to  welcome  the  restoration  of  diplomatic  relations 
between the two countries, which had been broken off 
since  1961.  Since  the  Cuban  people  should  be  able  to 
take full advantage of their potential and freely pursue 
economic and financial relations with other States and 
peoples of the world, we encourage the United States of 
America and Cuba to proceed with negotiations towards 
the normalization of their relations and the total lifting 
of the embargo.
We hope and wish that the main actors in the Israeli-
Palestinian  peace  process  can  draw  inspiration  from 
that  example  and  engage  in  diplomatic  negotiations 
with a view to the peaceful coexistence of two States.
We  welcome  the  nuclear  agreement  between  the 
international community and Iran and hope that it will 
result  in  the  normalization  of  relations  with  the  rest 
of  world  and  the  international  community.  We  firmly 
believe that the world will be totally secure only if there 
is general and complete nuclear disarmament.
Climate  change  is  an  undeniable  reality  and  is  a 
dangerous threat to the existence of humankind. In that 
regard, it is important that we all pledge to fulfil our 
responsibilities with respect to the environment and that 
we  all  commit  to  protecting  the  planet  in  accordance 
with  the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities.  The  session  of  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties that will take place in Paris in December will 
undoubtedly offer a new opportunity for the world to 
rectify  its  behaviour  with  respect  to  nature.  We  are 
looking for robust commitments on the part of Member 
States  to  reducing  greenhouse  gas  emissions  and 
providing the necessary funds for developing countries 
to address environmental challenges.
I cannot conclude my statement without expressing 
our gratitude to all our development partners, the United 
Nations in particular, for their continued follow-up on 
the situation in our country, and for the commitments 
they  made  at  the  Brussels  round  table  last  March  on 
financing  our  strategic  operational  programme  of 
development. Guinea-Bissau and its people are counting 
on all of you.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for  this 
meeting. 
I now call on those representatives who have asked 
to speak in exercise of the the right to reply. I remind 
members that statements in exercise of the right of reply 
must be limited to 10 minutes for the first statement and 
5 minutes for the second, should there be one, and that 
delegations should speak from their seats.
Mr. Milanović (Serbia): My delegation would like 
to exercise its right of reply in response to the statement 
that  was  made  today  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Albania, Mr. Edi Rama,
At  this  historic  seventieth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, as the States Members of the United Nations 
invest  maximum  efforts  in  solving  the  problems  and 
challenges  that  face  the  international  community, 
I  would  like  to  underline  that  the  consolidation  of 
international  peace,  security  and  stability  continue  to 
15-29940
15/18
A/70/PV.27 
02/10/2015
be a priority issue for the Republic of Serbia as well. 
In  order  to  achieve  those  goals,  my  country  invests 
maximum efforts in strengthening regional cooperation, 
stabilization and reconciliation, efforts for which it has 
been widely recognized and acclaimed.
Unfortunately,  the  Prime  Minister  of  Albania 
again  misled  the  Assembly  in  his  statement  today  by 
contending  that  dialogue  is  being  conducted  between 
two  States  —  namely,  Serbia  and  Kosovo  —  and  not 
between  Belgrade  and  Pristina,  as  is  really  the  case. 
Kosovo is not an independent State and is not a Member 
of  the  United  Nations.  Mr.  Rama  also  called  on  the 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  recognize 
the  so-called  independent  State  of  Kosovo,  contrary 
to  international  law  and  the  principles  on  which  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  Security  Council 
resolution 1244 (1999) are based. The call was made at a 
time when we are witnessing a significant improvement 
between  Serbia  and  Albania,  as  evinced  by  the  first 
visit of the Prime Minister of Albania to Belgrade after 
68 years.
I  would  like  to  underline  that  all  the  outstanding 
issues  in  the  process  of  normalization  of  relations 
between Belgrade and Pristina are being addressed in 
the dialogue conducted in Brussels, with the facilitation 
of the European Union. Needless to say, statements such 
as those made by Prime Minister Rama may jeopardize 
the  positive  results  of  the  dialogue  and  set  back  its 
progress in the future.
Resolving the status of Serbia’s southern province 
belongs  among  my  Government’s  top  priorities.  We 
have demonstrated time and time again our readiness 
to  make  an  active  contribution  in  the  efforts  to  reach 
a solutions that would be acceptable to all, taking into 
account the legitimate interests of all communities in 
Kosovo and Metohija.
Mr.  Idrizi  (Albania):  I  am  taking  the  floor  in 
response to the statement just made by the representative 
of  Serbia  in  reaction  to  the  statement  that  the  Prime 
Minister  of  Albania,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Edi  Rama, 
made this morning in the general debate. I wish I were 
not compelled to do so, but I deem it very important to 
say a few words to set the record straight.
Kosovo is an independent State recognized by 110 
countries. It is a member and active participant in all 
regional initiatives in South-East Europe and, like all 
the other countries of the region, is part of the European 
Union  association  and  stabilization  process.  Since  its 
independence in 2008, Kosovo has firmly established 
and strengthened its worldwide geopolitical identity and 
has been a much-praised contributor to peace, stability 
and  cooperation  in  the  region.  Furthermore,  Kosovo 
and  Serbia  are  engaged  in  a  successful  dialogue  that 
has enabled the two countries to find common solutions 
for a series of issues for both of their peoples. 
There  is  so  much  to  say  on  the  fact  that,  with 
Kosovo’s independence, our region closed once and for 
all the most bitter chapter in its modern history. That 
development has generated the most welcome positive 
energy in the Balkans, including in our own relations 
with  Serbia,  and  raised  the  hopes  of  the  people, 
especially  the  young,  in  both  countries.  For  the  sake 
of  time,  however,  I  will  limit  myself  to  quoting  from 
the statement made by the Prime Minister at an earlier 
meeting. 
“After  100  years  of  frozen  or  live  conflicts  and 
confrontations in the Balkans, no guns were pointed 
at  anyone’s  window.  After  a  century  scarred  by 
conflict, we have finally seen a year of cooperation 
aimed  at  making  the  peace  we  have  achieved  a 
peace worth living.” (A/70/PV.25)
This  is  what  Kosovo  independence  has  brought 
to  our  region,  to  our  part  of  the  world,  and  certainly 
beyond.  We  fully  subscribe  to  this  climate  and  have 
contributed to it with dedication and perseverance, and 
we  will  continue  to  do  whatever  we  can  for  peace  to 
prevail and further develop.
Ms.  Demirel  (Turkey):  I  am  taking  the  floor  in 
response to the base allegations made by one delegation 
today, which we categorically deny. I shall refrain from 
taking valuable time, but I would like to emphasize that 
Turkey will continue to stand by the people of Syria.
Mr.  Li  Yongsheng  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
China would like to exercise its right of reply in regard 
to  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the 
Philippines.
China’s  claim  over  the  sovereignty  of  islands  is 
based  on  an  adequate  historical  and  legal  foundation. 
The illegal occupation and invasion of some islands and 
reefs  and  Nansha  Islands  in  China  by  the  Philippines 
is the root cause of the dispute between China and the 
Philippines. I would like to explain that another name 
for the Nansha Islands is the Spratly Islands.
Without the prior consent of China, the Philippines 
unilaterally  and  forcefully  initiated  arbitration.  That 
16/18 
15-29940
02/10/2015 
A/70/PV.27
is  against  international  law  and  an  encroachment  on 
the legal rights and interests of China. China is firmly 
opposed to the practice by the Philippines of initiating 
arbitration and has repeatedly indicated its position of 
non-acceptance and non-participation. Our position has 
an adequate legal foundation that will not change.
It  unilaterally 
The  Philippines  broke  its  own  promise  to  seek  a 
through  consultations  and  negotiations 
settlement 
directly. 
initiated  and  stubbornly 
pressed  for  arbitration  in  an  attempt  to  deny  China’s 
territorial  sovereignty  over  the  South  China  Sea  and 
China’s  maritime  rights  in  an  attempt  to  force  China 
to  compromise.  That  is  unrealistic  and  will  not  yield 
any results. China’s basic position on the South China 
Sea issue is to seek a peaceful settlement on the basis 
of  respecting  historical  facts  and  in  accordance  with 
international  law  through  dialogue,  consultations  and 
negotiations.  China  and  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  countries  have  already 
agreed on a dual-track approach in the matter; namely, 
settlement should be sought through direct negotiations 
and consultations by the countries directly concerned. 
The peace and stability of the South China Sea should 
be  jointly  maintained  by  China  and  the  ASEAN 
countries. That is the most realistic and most effective 
way to properly address the South China Sea issue.
Internationalizing and judicializing the South China 
Sea issue will not be conducive to finding a settlement. 
On  the  contrary,  it  will  only  make  it  more  difficult 
and will jeopardize regional peace and security. China 
is  firmly  committed  to  maintaining  regional  peace 
and  security  in  the  South  China  Sea  and  will  remain 
committed to turning the South China Sea into a sea of 
peace,  friendship  and  cooperation.  Meanwhile,  China 
is  firmly  opposed  to  the  practice  of  a  small  number 
of  countries  of  stirring  up  the  situation  for  selfish 
purposes  and  jeopardizing  peace  and  stability  in  the 
South China Sea. China urges the Philippines to return 
to negotiations and consultations on the right track as 
early as possible.
Mr.  Meek  (United  Kingdom):  I  wish  to  exercise 
the  right  of  reply  to  some  of  the  comments  made  by 
the Prime Minister of the Republic of Mauritius earlier 
today. 
The  British  Government  has  no  doubt  about  the 
sovereignty of the Chagos Archipelago, which has been 
British since 1814 and which it administers as the British 
Indian  Ocean  territory.  No  international  tribunal, 
including the recent arbitral tribunal constituted under 
annex VII to the United Nations Convention on the Law 
of the Sea, has ever cast doubt on the United Kingdom’s 
sovereignty over the territory. 
Moreover, the United Kingdom does not recognize 
the claim of the Republic of Mauritius to the sovereignty 
of the Chagos Archipelago. It has repeatedly undertaken 
to  cede  it  to  Mauritius  when  it  is  no  longer  required 
for  defence  purposes.  We  maintain  that  commitment, 
although  it  is  for  the  United  Kingdom  to  determine 
when  that  condition  is  met.  In  the  meantime,  the 
defence  purposes  contribute  significantly 
towards 
global security and are central to efforts for countering 
regional  threats,  including  those  from  terrorism  and 
piracy. 
It is clear that the recent Arbitral Tribunal award does 
not  have the  effect  of  rendering  the  marine-protected 
area illegal. The tribunal found that there had been no 
improper motive in its creation and explicitly stated that 
it took no view on the substance of the marine-protected 
area , a measure that preserves the Indian Ocean’s fish 
stocks and safeguards their importance for the economy 
and food security of the region. The tribunal’s finding 
was actually more narrow — that the United Kingdom 
should have consulted the Republic of Mauritius more 
fully  about  the  establishment  of  the  marine-protected 
area so as to give due regard to its rights.
As the tribunal noted in its final observation, it is 
open to both parties to enter into such negotiations now 
and to do so without reference to matters of sovereignty 
under  a  sovereignty  umbrella.  The  United  Kingdom 
has  made  extensive  efforts  to  engage  the  Republic 
of  Mauritius  about  conservation  matters.  Following 
the  award,  it  has  once  again  invited  the  Republic 
of  Mauritius  to  join  in  bilateral  consultations.  We 
hope that the consultations will begin shortly and are 
committed to working with the Republic of Mauritius 
to explore all aspects of its interests in relation to the 
marine-protected area .
Mr. Dery (the Philippines): We are exercising the 
right of reply. In response to China’s great concern for a 
peaceful settlement in the South China Sea, we observe 
that the South China Sea is an international waterway 
and  that  that  is  an  even  stronger  reason  to  settle  any 
disputes at the international level, under international 
law, including arbitration, pursuant to annex VII of the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. We 
therefore reiterate our invitation to the People’s Republic 
15-29940
17/18
A/70/PV.27 
02/10/2015
of China to join us in the deliberations of the arbitral 
tribunal and to let the merits of the case be decided on 
the  basis  of  international  law  and  with  transparency, 
rather than recourse to coercion and intimidation.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
representative  of  Serbia  has  asked  to  make  a  second 
statement. 
Mr.  Holovka  (Serbia):  I  will  take  further  time  at 
this  late  hour  only  to  set  the  facts  straight.  Kosovo 
is  neither  an  independent  State  nor  a  Member  of  the 
United Nations. The Prime Minister of Albania is the 
only speaker in the General Assembly who has called 
for the recognition of part of a sovereign country. That 
is a hostile act. We take it very seriously. It is a hostile 
act  not  only  towards  a  neighbouring  country,  Serbia, 
but also towards his own people, some of whom inhabit 
the  province  of  Kosovo.  Furthermore,  it  is  a  hostile 
act in relation to the dialogue held under the auspices 
of  the  European  Union,  where  all  outstanding  issues 
in  the  process  of  normalization  of  relations  between 
Belgrade and Pristina are being addressed. Let me be 
clear and stress once again that Serbia will continue to 
use all diplomatic means to preserve its sovereignty and 
territorial integrity.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
representative  of  China  has  asked  to  speak  a  second 
time in exercise of the right of reply. 
Mr.  Li  Yongsheng  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
I  only  wish  to  reiterate  that  the  illegal  invasion  and 
occupation  of  some  islands  and  reefs  in  the  Nansha 
Islands of China is the root cause of the dispute between 
China  and  the  Philippines  over  the  South  China 
Sea.  Regarding  the  arbitration  case  initiated  by  the 
Philippines, China’s position is that of non-acceptance 
and non-participation. Its position will not change.
The meeting rose at 8 p.m.
18/18 
15-29940
