United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
54th plenary meeting
Monday, 16 November 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.54
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tommo Monthe 
(Cameroon), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 67 (continued)
Report of the Human Rights Council
Report of the Human Rights Council (A/70/53 
and A/70/53/Add.1)
Mr.  Mohamed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  welcome  Mr.  Joachim  Rücker, 
President of the Human Rights Council, to the General 
Assembly.  We  take  note  of  the  latest  report  of  the 
Council, contained in documents A/70/53 and A/70/53/
Add.1.
The Sudan aligns itself with the statement delivered 
by  the  representative  of  Sierra  Leone  on  behalf  of 
the  Group  of  African  States  (see  A/70/PV.53),  which 
details  the  concerns  of  the  Group’s  members  about 
human rights issues and how to address them. We also 
align  ourselves  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement (ibid.).
I would like to express my heartfelt condolences to 
the families of the victims of the recent heinous terrorist 
attacks  in  Egypt,  Lebanon,  Iraq  and  France,  and  to 
the  Governments  and  the  peoples  of  those  countries 
for the deaths of those innocent people. Such terrorist 
attacks  prove  once  again  how  important  it  is  that  the 
international community work together to take decisive 
action  to  confront  and  eradicate,  whether  through 
security  measures  or  international  cooperation,  the 
global threat of terrorism that has loomed for the past 
six or seven decades.
My country would like to emphasize its commitment 
to fundamental human rights, based on the principles 
of universality, interdependence and indivisibility. We 
recall that our country attaches particular importance 
to  issues  of  human  rights  and  their  protection  and 
promotion, as reflected in our Government’s ratification 
of the relevant international and regional instruments, 
including  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and 
Political  Rights  and  the  International  Covenant  on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, as well as Arab 
and African regional instruments. At the national level, 
the Government of the Sudan has developed a number of 
legislative frameworks and updated its national laws, in 
line with regional and international obligations, for the 
implementation  of  which  we  have  established  various 
mechanisms. We have covered those issues in detail in 
our statements before the Third Committee under the 
relevant agenda items.
In  regard  to  our  cooperation  with  the  Human 
Rights Council, I am pleased to note that my country 
participated  successfully  in  the  first  cycle  of  the 
universal periodic review (UPR) mechanism. In 2013, 
we  presented  a  periodic  report  to  the  Council,  in 
which  we  clarified  the  level  of  implementation  of  the 
recommendations that resulted from our UPR exercise. 
The relevant authorities in the Sudan have finalized our 
report  in  order  to  present  it  to  the  second  UPR  cycle 
in May of next year, at the twenty-fifth session of the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-37052 (E)
*1537052*
A/70/PV.54 
16/11/2015
Working Group on the UPR. My country also continues 
to cooperate with the Independent Expert on the human 
rights situation in the Sudan, and the Government has 
participated effectively in every session of the Council 
since it was first established.
We  welcomed  Human  Rights  Council  resolution 
27/21,  on  human  rights  and  unilateral  coercive 
measures, adopted in September 2014. We also welcome 
the appointment of His Excellency Ambassador Idriss 
Jazairy  as  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  negative  impact 
of  unilateral  coercive  measures  on  the  enjoyment  of 
human rights. That is an important development in the 
Council’s  work,  and  we  look  forward  to  the  Special 
Rapporteur’s visit to the Sudan, which is scheduled for 
this  month.  We  stand  ready  to  cooperate  with  him  in 
addressing the destructive effects of unilateral coercive 
measures  on  peoples,  as  a  first  step  on  the  way  to 
eliminating  such  measures,  which  run  counter  to  the 
norms  of  the  United  Nations,  international  law  and 
human values.
The  universality  of  human  rights  obliges  the 
Council to deal in an equal and non-selective manner 
with all human rights issues, including economic, social 
and  cultural  rights  and  the  right  to  development.  The 
Council is also called on to address human rights issues 
in all regions and countries, in a balanced manner and 
without  discriminating  between  poor  and  rich,  since 
every country deals with human rights challenges and 
obstacles at different levels and in different ways. We 
would like to stress that the UPR mechanism is the most 
appropriate framework for addressing the concerns of 
all countries about human rights, based on productive 
dialogue and constructive cooperation.
The  universal  nature  of  those  rights  requires  that 
we address exclusively issues of internationally agreed-
on human rights, without introducing any new concepts 
or rights that have not been agreed on internationally, so 
as to respect the religious and cultural specifics of each 
country. In that regard, the Sudan distances itself from 
any attempt the Council may have made over the past 
two years to promote agendas that are alien to some of 
its members by introducing concepts that have no legal 
basis,  such  as  sexual  orientation  and  sexual  identity. 
We urge the Council not to exceed its role, as specified 
in Assembly resolution 60/251, and we recommend that 
the  family,  as  the  main  unit  of  society,  be  protected, 
in acknowledgement of its role in development and its 
potential role in helping to achieve the recently adopted 
Sustainable Development Goals (see resolution 70/1).
The  Human  Rights  Council  has  been  urged  to 
improve the work of the special procedures mechanism 
by compelling mandate holders to adhere to the Code 
of Conduct that the Council adopted by resolution 5/2. 
The  mandate  holders  should  also  comply  with  other 
relevant  documents,  including  Council  resolution  5/1, 
on institution-building.
We support the efforts of members of the General 
Assembly and the Security Council to strengthen and 
promote internationally agreed human rights. We wish 
to  reiterate  that  the  involvement  of  treaty  bodies  and 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  should  not  extend  into  legislation, 
which is the exclusive right of Member States. By that, 
we  mean  that  any  interpretation  presented  should  be 
exclusively based on Member State decisions.
In  conclusion,  we  stress  our  cooperation  with  the 
Human Rights Council as a General Assembly organ. 
We  call  on  the  Council  to  adopt  a  comprehensive 
approach  in  addressing  human  rights  issues  across 
the  world,  an  approach  that  takes  into  consideration 
the  need  to  promote  development,  forgive  the  debts 
of developing States, lift unilateral sanctions imposed 
on  those  States,  lift  restrictions  on  their  exports  and 
address the effects of climate change.
Mr. Marani (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): At the 
outset, I wish to express condolences, both personally 
and on behalf of my country, to the families, the people 
and  the  Governments  of  France  and  Lebanon  for  the 
victims  of  terrorist  attacks  in  the  past  week.  The 
problem of terrorism and its solution deserves an urgent 
and broad-based debate by the international community 
in  the  framework  of  absolute  respect  for  the  norms 
and the instruments of human rights and international 
humanitarian  law  and  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the Charter of the United Nations.
Argentina especially wishes to thank Ambassador 
Rücker, President of the Human Rights Council, for his 
presence  in  the  General  Assembly  and  welcomes  the 
Council’s  report  on  its  activities  in  the  twenty-third 
special  session  and  from  the  twenty-eighth  session  to 
the present (A/70/53).
We  believe  that  maintaining  fluid  coordination 
between  New  York  and  Geneva  on  the  human  rights 
agenda is important, and we appreciate this opportunity 
to  express  our  views  on  the  Council’s  recent  work. 
Argentina has always been, and will continue to be, a 
consistent and resolute defender of the independence of 
2/9 
15-37052
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.54
the work and achievements of the Office of the United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the 
Human Rights Council in the promotion of, respect for 
and  protection  of  human  rights  around  the  world.  We 
firmly believe that the Council should be on an equal 
footing with the principal organs of the United Nations.
On  31  December,  after  two  consecutive  terms, 
Argentina  will  no  longer  be  a  member  of  the  Human 
Rights Council. It has been an honour for my country to 
serve on the Council. Particularly since the restoration 
of  democracy,  notably  after  2003,  the  promotion  and 
protection of human rights is a State policy that takes 
in  the  principal  demands  of  Argentine  society.  The 
defence and promotion of human rights constitute the 
central axis of our country’s foreign policy.
its 
During 
time  on 
the  Council,  Argentina 
introduced  innovative  and  diverse  draft  resolutions. 
Noteworthy  among  them  is  the  introduction  into  the 
international agenda of the theme of the right to truth as 
an automous right. The development of that right centres 
on  the  prevention  of  mass  violations  of  human  rights 
throughout the world. In addition, since 2009 we have 
promoted  initiatives  on  forensic  genetics  and  human 
rights, placing our country in a position of leadership 
with  regard  to  this  issue  at  the  international  level. 
Indeed,  at  the  twenty-eighth  session  of  the  Council, 
the  guide  was  presented  on  best  practices  on  the  use 
of forensic genetics in investigations regarding human 
rights  and  international  humanitarian  law,  prepared 
with the International Committee of the Red Cross. 
We  also  want  to  note  the  Council’s  adoption  in 
September  2014  of  resolution  27/30,  on  human  rights 
and vulture funds, understanding that the international 
community  must  tackle  the  foreign  debt  problem  in 
an integral manner, as the debt burden on developing 
countries  is  unsustainable  and  constitutes  one  of  the 
main  obstacles  to  their  achieving  human-centred 
sustainable development  and to eradicating poverty.
Activities  related  to  the  universalization  of  the 
International  Convention  for  the  Protection  of  All 
Persons  from  Enforced  Disappearance  form  a  major 
focus  of  our  country’s  foreign  policy,  through  which 
we have strongly promoted the mandate and the work 
of  both  the  Committee  on  Enforced  Disappearances 
and  the  Working  Group  on  Enforced  or  Involuntary 
Disappearances. We consider that their comprehensive 
and  coordinated  work  is  essential  to  combat  enforced 
disappearances. We are happy that nearly five years after 
the  entry  into  force  of  the  International  Convention, 
more than 50 States have ratified it.
In  the  framework  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Argentina  also  pushed  for  the  establishment  of  an 
Independent  Expert  on  the  enjoyment  of  all  human 
rights by older persons; the Special Rapporteur on the 
promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees 
of non-recurrence; and the Independent Expert on the 
effects  of  foreign  debt  and  other  related  international 
obligations  of  States  on  the  full  enjoyment  of  human 
rights, particularly economic, social and cultural rights, 
convinced that Council’s special procedures constitute 
a fundamental tool for the promotion of human rights.
thirtieth  session  of  resolutions  on 
We  especially  wish  to  note  the  adoption  at  the 
Council’s 
the 
promotion  and  the  protection  of  the  human  rights  of 
indigenous peoples (Human Rights Council resolution 
30/4),  on  the  Council’s  contribution  to  the  high-level 
meeting  on  HIV/AIDS  in  2016  (resolution  30/8),  on 
the  promotion  of  international  cooperation  to  support 
national  follow-up  systems  and  processes  (resolution 
30/25),  on  the  issue  of  the  death  penalty  (resolution 
30/5),  and  on  the  promotion  and  protection  of  the 
human rights of peasants and other people working in 
rural areas (resolution 30/13).
Finally,  we  wish  to  reaffirm  that  the  Argentine 
Republic  has  an  abiding  commitment  to  the  defence 
and  promotion  of  human  rights.  We  reiterate  our 
commitment to the Council to continuing to advocate 
the  broadening  of  the  protection  of  human  rights 
throughout the world.
the  Deputy  Permanent  Representative  of 
Mr.  León  González  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Cuba fully associates itself with the statement delivered 
by 
the 
Islamic Republic of Iran this morning on behalf of the 
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries (see A/70/PV.53). 
terrorist  attacks 
committed in the past week in France, Iraq and Lebanon. 
We also wish to express our heartfelt condolences to the 
Governments and the peoples of those countries and to 
the victims and their relatives.
We  strongly  condemn 
the 
The emergence of the Human Rights Council was 
a response to the need to address the double standards 
of  confrontation  and  political  manipulation  in  the 
former Commission on Human Rights. Those practices, 
which  discredited  the  former  Commission,  must  not 
be  enthroned  in  an  organ  created  to  replace  it.  That 
15-37052
3/9
A/70/PV.54 
16/11/2015
continues to be Cuba’s belief, born out of a conviction 
that the former practices did not represent the best way 
to contribute to the promotion and protection of human 
rights.
We  regret  the  fact  that  the  report  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  (A/70/53)  presented 
today 
continues to show a tendency to use a punitive focuses 
and selective treatment in the consideration of various 
human  rights  situations.  We  are  still  quite  far  from 
placing at the centre of our work on human rights the 
cooperation and respectful dialogue that should guide 
the work of this body.
to  us 
We urge that the universal periodic review be given 
the recognition and importance that it should have as the 
sole existing universal mechanism for a comprehensive 
analysis of the situation of human rights in all countries. 
Let  us  recall  that  when  we  agreed  to  establish  that 
mechanism — which differs essentially from that of its 
predecessor, the Commission on Human Rights — we 
did so convinced that in that way we were giving the 
body a means for international cooperation on human 
rights issues on the basis of constructive dialogue and 
respect  for  the  principles  of  universality,  objectivity, 
impartiality  and  non-selectivity.  The  defence  of  such 
principles should not be only an oral commitment, but 
rather a daily practice if we truly want the Council to 
contribute to promoting progress in the promotion and 
protection of human rights on a global scale.
The  subjects  of  the  Council’s  competence  are 
many  and  varied,  and  all  contribute  in  some  fashion 
to  the  fundamental  purpose  of  that  body.  In  order  to 
effectively  protect  human  rights,  we  must  continue 
promoting an international political and economic order 
that is democratic and fair to replace the current unjust 
and  exclusionary  one.  Nor  is  it  beyond  the  Council’s 
competence to assess the impact of imposing unilateral 
coercive measures and the consequent rejecting of such 
practices, on the protection of human rights.
The harmful impact on Cuba of a blockade policy 
for  more  than  50  years  is  an  irrefutable  example  of 
the importance of tackling and assessing the scope of 
measures of this kind. We will continue to work tirelessly 
with a group of like-minded countries to ensure that the 
Council restores the right to international solidarity — a 
task that cannot be postponed if we want to be better 
positioned  to  deal  with  the  serious  challenges  of  the 
profound  economic,  financial,  energy,  environmental 
and food crises that are affecting the planet.
Likewise,  we  will  continue  to  advocate  ensuring 
that the special procedures of the Council are carried 
out with strict respect for the principles of objectivity 
and impartiality and for the Code of Conduct adopted 
during the institution-building process of the Council 
(Human  Rights  Council  resolution  5/2,  annex).  The 
work  of  the  human  rights  treaty  bodies  should  be 
carried out under similar guidelines. 
Cuba will continue to promote the rights of people 
to self-determination, peace and development, and the 
achievement of the right to food and the establishment 
of a democratic and equitable international order. Cuba 
will continue to fight racism, xenophobia and all forms 
of discrimination, as well as to protect cultural rights 
and  respect  for  diversity.  Cuba  reiterates  its  undying 
commitment to the promotion and respect of all human 
rights for everyone.
Ms. Didi (Maldives): My delegation echoes others 
in  expressing  our  deep  shock  and  sadness  over  the 
recent  attacks  in  Lebanon,  Iraq  and  France.  We  offer 
our deepest sympathy and condolences to those affected 
by the acts of terror.
My  delegation  wishes  to  thank  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Joachim  Rücker,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Germany  to  the  United  Nations  Office  in  Geneva, 
for his commendable work as President of the Human 
Rights Council and for presenting its report (A/70/53) 
to the General Assembly. We will continue to engage 
constructively  with  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  (OHCHR)  to 
strengthen  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights  across  the  globe,  working  hand  in  hand  with 
Member States.
The Maldives is honoured to have been a member 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  since  2011  and  to  have 
seen  the  work  of  the  Council  steadily  increase  over 
those  five  years,  as  is  evident  by  the  panels  created 
and the resolutions adopted. As we approach the tenth 
anniversary  of  the  Council  in  2016,  we  are  provided 
with  an  opportunity  to  reflect  upon  the  achievements 
and  challenges  that  the  Council  has  faced.  With  an 
ever-forward-looking  mindset,  we  must  be  open  to 
exploring ways to improve the work of the Council and 
its mechanisms.
Nonetheless,  our  collective  achievements  through 
the  Human  Rights  Council  have  been  abundant,  and 
the  work  we  do  is  ever  increasing.  The  Maldives  is 
pleased to note that this year’s work has continued at a 
4/9 
15-37052
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.54
progressive trend, which reflects the active engagement 
of many United Nations Members States in the Council 
in Geneva. Most notably, the special sessions on human 
rights abuses and violations — such as the past sessions 
on  Palestine,  Syria  and,  most  recently,  the  terrorist 
group  Boko  Haram  this  year  —  are  clear  indications 
of  the  growing  importance  of  the  Council  and  its 
mechanisms.
The Maldives is grateful to all the members of the 
Human Rights Council for their commitment to steering 
the Council through the human rights challenges of the 
past year. As a member of the Council, the Maldives is 
proud of what the Council has achieved in a year marred 
by  violence,  acts  of  aggression,  natural  disasters  and 
the  intensification  of  the  effects  of  climate  change. 
While that does not reflect a positive image of the state 
of  the  world  today,  we  are  given  hope  by  the  reports 
of  progress  from  the  Human  Rights  Council  to  the 
General Assembly.
We would like to express our appreciation for the 
efforts  of  the  current  Council  President  to  improve 
the  working  methods  of  the  Council,  a  major  organ 
of the United Nations, so as to make it more efficient 
and  effective  in  carrying  out  its  mandate.  Efforts  to 
avoid  duplication,  as  well  as  the  biennialization  of 
resolutions,  are  welcome  measures,  especially  for 
smaller delegations that are struggling to cope with the 
weight  of  the  work  provided  by  an  ever-more-active 
Council.
As the work of the Council increases, the Maldives 
also  takes  note  of  the  corresponding  increase  in  the 
work  of  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights.  The  Maldives  expresses  its  concern 
that  the  OHCHR  is  required  to  rely  increasingly  on 
extrabudgetary resources. We assert that, in order for 
the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  to  function  in 
a  truly  independent  manner,  without  partisanship,  it 
is  necessary  that  it  be  financed  primarily  though  the 
regular budget of the United Nations.
The three pillars of the work of the United Nations 
are  peace  and  security,  development,  and  human 
rights.  Unfortunately,  human  rights  continues  to  be 
allocated  a  mere  fraction  of  the  priority  and  budget 
available  to  other  areas  of  work.  It  is  important  that 
greater  focus  be  put  on  implementing  the  ideals  that 
we espouse so loudly. It is important that the Council 
and  its  mechanisms  work  hand  in  hand  with  Member 
States  with  a  view  to  promoting  efficacy  rather  than 
rhetoric. It is a travesty that, in spite of our best efforts, 
the situations in Syria and the State of Palestine have 
continued to deteriorate.
The importance of the work of the Human Rights 
Council and its mechanisms, including special mandate 
holders,  cannot  be  overemphasized.  Special  mandate 
holders, whether on thematic areas or specific countries, 
fulfil  an  important  role  in  the  process.  However,  it 
is  equally  important  that  special  mandate  holders 
maintain  their  independence  and  impartiality.  They 
should also follow their Code of Conduct and act in a 
manner reflecting the integrity of the position they hold 
and the Organization they represent. The Organization 
deserves the best.
The  Maldives  believes  that  engagement  with  the 
United Nation Human Rights Council is an obligation 
of  every  Member  State.  In  fact,  in  2016  we  will 
complete  our  second  cycle  of  the  universal  periodic 
review  (UPR).  Although  the  UPR  remains  universal, 
the Maldives notes that many small island developing 
States  are  not  represented  in  Geneva,  and  many 
delegations  do  not  take  an  interest  in  participating  in 
those reviews. Without a doubt, the UPR is among the 
most  constructive  and  successful  mechanisms  of  its 
kind to date. The Maldives notes that all States should 
endeavour to maintain and strengthen the functioning 
of that mechanism. For the UPR to be truly universal 
and  transparent,  more  attention  should  be  given  to 
evaluating and reviewing the human rights situations in 
all countries, so as to ensure that vulnerable populations 
are protected everywhere and to reaffirm that all lives 
matter.
Despite our constraints, and although we are a small 
island  developing  State,  the  Maldives  has  maintained 
a  strong  presence  at  the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
continues  to  advocate  for  the  most  vulnerable,  both 
at home and abroad. We call on all nations, large and 
small, to truly realize the vision that no one should be 
left behind, that the human rights of all peoples should 
be ensured and that we will craft a system that delivers 
for all.
Mr.  Manongi  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  At 
the  outset,  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  joins  in 
expressing its condolences to the victims of the horrific 
terrorist attacks in Paris.
We  also  associate  ourselves  with  the  statements 
made  by  the  representatives  of  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Iran  and  Sierra  Leone,  on  behalf  of  the  Movement 
15-37052
5/9
A/70/PV.54 
16/11/2015
of  Non-Aligned  Countries  and  the  Group  of  African 
States, respectively (see A/70/PV.53).
We  note  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
(A/70/53), presented by its President earlier today (see 
A/70/PV.53).  We  welcome  the  work  of  the  Council 
in  promoting  human  rights  around  the  world  in 
accordance with its mandate, conferred by the General 
Assembly and in line with the purposes and principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  also  note 
that the work of the Council has grown exponentially 
to  cover  many  areas  of  human  rights,  some  of  which 
have  received  little  or  no  attention  from  the  Member 
States for the past 50 years. Of course, this is a welcome 
development.  It  demonstrates  the  evolution  and  wider 
appreciation of human rights globally. But it is one that 
presents some challenges, especially on notions that are 
controversial and divisive. I need not mention them in 
my brief remarks.
Instead, I want to focus on one aspect of the report, 
that concerning the plight of persons with albinism. The 
Council’s adoption of resolutions 23/13, 24/33, 26/10 and 
28/6 is truly welcome, as it seeks to address the human 
rights concerns of persons with albinism globally. As 
noted in some of the resolutions, persons with albinism 
in  many  parts  of  the  world  continue  to  face  various 
social, economic and political violations and abuses of 
their  human  rights.  We  need  to  pay  greater  attention 
to  their  challenges  in  a  non-discriminatory  manner. 
Undeniably,  the  issue  deserves  our  collective  efforts 
as we bear in mind the indivisibility of human rights. 
That is why the United Republic of Tanzania, Malawi 
and  other  like-minded  countries  are  championing  a 
draft  resolution  in  the  Third  Committee  that  seeks  to 
address  the  social  and  development  challenges  facing 
that  persons  with  albinism.  We  hope  and  believe  that 
the  draft  resolution,  once  adopted,  will  contribute  to 
redressing the plight of persons with albinism through 
the  provision  of  basic  social  services,  inclusion  and 
empowerment. We therefore call on Member States to 
support that important initiative.
Violent  attacks  against  persons  with  albinism  are 
truly  regrettable.  My  Government  has  categorically 
condemned  such  abhorrent  attacks  and  is  taking 
stringent  penal  measures  against  the  culprits.  Since 
2006,  we  have  also  been  engaging  in  advocacy  to 
raise  awareness  of  the  issue.  The  Tanzania  Albinism 
Society has been doing a commendable job with limited 
resources. Partnerships have also been instrumental in 
that regard. 
However, we have expressed regret about an event 
involving a film entitled The Boy from Geita, a story of 
inhumanity transformed by humanity, which premiered 
on  15  October  at  the  United  Nations.  The  event  was 
co-sponsored  by  the  Canadian  Mission,  the  Office  of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights and UNICEF. The irony is that, while the film 
was  about  the  challenges  that  people  with  albinism 
face  in  Tanzania,  our  Mission  was  neither  invited  to 
co-sponsor  the  event  nor  consulted  about  the  validity 
of a number of assertions being advanced therein. That 
is  utterly  unacceptable,  and  it  calls  into  question  the 
intentions  of  its  authors  and  sponsors,  regardless  of 
their purported good faith.
To  our  dismay,  promotional  materials  on  the 
film made a number of shocking claims, namely, that 
persons  with  albinism  in  Tanzania  and  other  parts  of 
Africa live in fear of violent attacks; that the film was 
meant to shed light on the horrible reality that persons 
with albinism in Tanzania face daily; that there was no 
political  way  in  Tanzania  to  combat  the  tragedy;  and 
that  “pressure  from  the  outside  world  was  necessary 
to  eradicate  the  horrible  practice”.  It  was  said  that 
“Ignorance among the people is the worst curse Africa 
suffers.  Educating  people  is  the  answer.”  It  was  also 
said  that  the  film  was  meant  “to  inspire  more  people 
to be part of the action that is needed to create change” 
and  “to  celebrate  the  human  spirit,  the  capacity  for 
goodness  and  the  good  works  of  Canadians”.  Based 
on such misleading assertions, it is no wonder that our 
Permanent Mission was not invited to sponsor the event 
here at the United Nations.
In  presenting  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  this  morning,  its  President  underscored  the 
importance of transparency and accountability. Sadly, 
the incident of the film fell short on both counts. It is in 
that regard that the United Republic of Tanzania calls on 
United Nations agencies and offices to strive for greater 
transparency,  accountability  and  impartiality.  United 
Nations agencies and offices should neither take, nor be 
seen to be taking, positions that are prejudicial or even 
favourable to some Member States to the detriment of 
others, particularly when the agencies and offices have 
not themselves engaged in a serious review or analysis 
of the assertions or claims with which they wish to be 
associated. 
The  President  of  the  Council  also  spoke  of  the 
important  role  of  civil  society  organizations 
in 
enhancing  human  rights.  We  could  not  agree  more. 
6/9 
15-37052
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.54
While it is essential that they be supported in their work, 
they must also demonstrate objectivity and fairness in 
doing such work. Accountability is not and cannot be 
the responsibility of Governments alone.
Ms. Belskaya (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): At the 
outset, Belarus aligns itself with the statement delivered 
by the representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on 
behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries (see 
A/70/PV.53).
In establishing the Human Rights Council (HRC), 
States expected that the Council would work on the basis 
of the principles of universality, impartiality, objectivity 
and non-selectivity. The core of the work of the Human 
Rights Council should be based on mutually respectful 
dialogue and the cooperation of the Governments of the 
countries  concerned,  as  Governments  have  the  prime 
responsibility and have the real levers to ensure human 
rights on the ground.
It  was  with  that  goal  that  the  universal  periodic 
review  (UPR)  mechanism  was  set  up.  It  has  proven 
its  effectiveness  in  ensuring  equal  dialogue  between 
participants  and  balanced  attention  to  all  human 
rights  categories,  as  well  as  States’  efforts  to  protect 
the  most  vulnerable  segments  of  the  population. 
Belarus successfully completed the second UPR cycle, 
voluntarily committed to implement most of the UPR 
recommendations,  and  is  prepared  to  cooperate  with 
United Nations human rights bodies on the basis of an 
objective and impartial approach. It will expand the list 
of invitees under the Council’s special procedures.
We  welcome  the  Council’s  focus  on  social  and 
economic  rights,  the  right  to  development,  combating 
human  trafficking  and  protecting  its  victims,  and  the 
situation  of  children,  women,  people  with  disabilities 
and the elderly. We also welcome the Council’s call to 
support the institution of the family. 
At the same time, unfortunately, Belarus must note 
that  the  Council  is  increasingly  becoming  a  platform 
whereby  individual  countries  and  groups  of  countries 
artificially  heighten  disagreements  on  human  rights 
issues. They are persistently trying to use the Council 
forum to settle political scores and to promote standards 
and  approaches  that  are  not  internationally  agreed 
upon. Such a flawed practice encourages unwarranted 
links  to  human  rights  on  practically  any  problematic 
issue of bilateral and regional relations.
The HRC mechanism entails, first and foremost, its 
country-specific resolutions and mandates, which make 
it  possible  for  countries  and  groups  of  countries  with 
the necessary financial and organizational resources to 
legitimize their own unilateral measures against unruly 
States  and  Governments.  Belarus  has  consistently 
continued  to  call  for  an  end  to  such  practices.  We 
hope  that  the  establishment  of  the  post  of  Special 
Rapporteur  on  the  negative  impact  of  the  unilateral 
coercive  measures  on  the  enjoyment  of  human  rights 
will  ultimately  lead  to  a  change  in  the  approaches  of 
the Council and its individual members in that regard. 
We also hope that it will prevent the principles of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  being  undermined  by 
such unlawful rules.
At the same time, carried away by non-issues such 
as the situation of human rights in Belarus, the Council 
has demonstrated its inability to adequately respond to 
obvious  international  humanitarian  crises  such  as  the 
growing  problems  of  the  rights  of  migrants,  refugees 
and internally displaced persons.
While organizing campaigns to promote questionable 
standards on sexual orientation and gender identity, the 
Council  has  not  paid  appropriate  attention  to  issues 
of discrimination on the grounds of race, ethnicity or 
religion,  or  to  offering  practical  assistance  to  States 
on  such  issues  as  ensuring  the  right  to  life,  food  and 
education  in  many  corners  of  the  world.  This  should 
not be so.
Belarus  is  also  concerned  about  attempts  by  the 
Human Rights Council to review its working methods 
even though the relevant review on the activities of the 
Council  was  completed  in  2012,  and  its  results  were 
affirmed  in  General  Assembly  resolutions.  We  call 
on  the  Council  to  comply  with  its  mandate  and  not 
to  duplicate  the  work  of  other  bodies,  thus  creating 
an  unreasonable  burden  on  the  budget  of  the  United 
Nations.
The  commitment  of  Belarus  to  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights  is  unwavering.  It  is 
based  on  equal  attention  being  paid  to  all  types  of 
human  rights  —  social,  economic,  political  and  civil 
rights — and on preventing the politicization of human 
rights topics, which contravenes the spirit of the United 
Nations  and  the  principles  on  which  the  Council  was 
established.
Mr.  Mminele  (South  Africa):  The  South  African 
delegation wishes to join other delegations in conveying 
its  heartfelt  condolences  to  the  Government  and  the 
people of France for the recent terrorist attacks, which 
15-37052
7/9
A/70/PV.54 
16/11/2015
claimed  the  lives  of  more  than  120  innocent  people. 
We express our abhorrence for those senseless acts of 
violence in the strongest possible terms.
The  South  African  delegation  extends  a  warm 
welcome  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joachim  Rücker  and 
thanks him for his presentation (see A/70/PV.53). South 
Africa  commends  Ambassador  Rücker  on  his  work 
since 1 January 2015 and on the level of professionalism 
and engagement that he has maintained.
We wish to clarify and emphasize our position in 
relation to the issues of sexual orientation and gender 
identity. South Africa’s Constitution clearly states that 
South Africa is a sovereign democracy founded on the 
basis  of  human  dignity,  the  achievement  of  equality 
and the advancement of human rights. Our Constitution 
seeks  to  promote  and  respect  the  rights  of  all  people 
without distinction of any kind. Discrimination based 
on  sexual  orientation  and  gender  identity  is  therefore 
explicitly prohibited in our Constitution.
South  Africa  is  firmly  committed  to  the  mandate 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  cognizant  of  the  huge 
responsibility that it carries in that regard. We should at 
all times be guided by a common desire and collective 
vision 
to  constantly  develop  certain  norms  and 
standards for the promotion, protection and fulfilment 
of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including 
respect  for  international  humanitarian  law.  That  will 
ensure  that  the  Council  guarantees,  first,  maximum 
protection; secondly, adequate remedies to all victims 
of  human  rights  abuses  and  violations  through  a 
uniform regulatory framework; and thirdly, that there 
is no impunity for human rights violations.
The Government of South Africa wishes to affirm 
the importance of elaborating norms and standards in 
the rubric of the International Covenant on Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights and the Declaration on the 
Right to Development. That is an area of international 
human  rights  law  that  has  been  clearly  neglected  and 
resisted.  It  is  therefore  important  that  constructive 
work  be  undertaken  in  order  to  give  true  meaning  to 
the  spirit  of  the  Vienna  Declaration  and  Programme 
of Action, namely, that all human rights are universal, 
indivisible, interdependent and interrelated.
The  Council  has  an  important  role  to  play  in  the 
fight against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia 
and  other  forms  of  related  intolerance  by  adopting 
ambitious  and  practical  resolutions  aimed  at  the  full 
and effective implementation of the Durban Declaration 
and  Programme  of  Action.  Establishing  a  United 
Nations  forum  for  people  of  African  descent,  with 
a focus on the improvement of the quality of life and 
livelihoods  of  the  African  diaspora,  remains  critical. 
We support the convening of the regional consultations 
in the regions where people of African descent live in 
the diaspora as citizens, with a view to obtaining first-
hand information and views on the structure, scope and 
format of the proposed forum. That remains key. In that 
regard,  we  wish  to  underline  the  importance  of  civil 
society participation in matters directly affecting their 
day-to-day lives.
In  welcoming  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1), we need to bear in mind 
that  the  centrality  of  the  development  agenda  beyond 
2015 is about development and the eradication of poverty. 
We need to ensure that the agenda is implemented with 
the  support  of  the  necessary  resource  mobilization 
and  political  commitment.  Effective  accountability 
mechanisms must be established that address not only 
the  duties  of  States  but  also  those  of  the  corporate 
sector, including, first, transnational corporations and 
other  business  enterprises;  secondly,  private  military 
and  security  companies;  and  thirdly,  the  extractive 
industries.  These  multinationals  are  the  owners  of 
global wealth and key drivers of globalization, whose 
operational activities cannot escape accountability and 
scrutiny in international human rights law. The current 
slanted and biased approach cannot be tolerated.
In  line  with  this  imperative,  the  first  session  of 
intergovernmental  working  group 
the  open-ended 
transnational  corporations  and  other  business 
on 
enterprises  with  respect  to  human  rights,  whose 
mandate is to elaborate an international legally binding 
instrument  to  regulate,  in  international  human  rights 
law,  the  activities  of  transnational  corporations  and 
other business enterprises, was held from 6 to 10 July.
My delegation remains concerned at the numerous 
Human  Rights  Council  and  General  Assembly 
resolutions  that  continue  to  reaffirm  a  human-rights-
based approach to development. We urge the sponsors 
of those resolutions not to resort to notions that have not 
been intergovernmentally negotiated and that are open 
to interpretation, including the use of human rights as a 
conditionality for development cooperation.
In  this  regard,  we  maintain  that  the  right  to 
development  is  a  process  through  which  all  human 
rights — that is, civil, cultural, economic, political and 
8/9 
15-37052
16/11/2015 
A/70/PV.54
social — and fundamental freedoms are progressively 
realized.
In conclusion, South Africa reiterates its concern at 
the continued undermining of and total disregard for the 
provisions of Assembly resolution 68/144 that pertain 
to  the  deferral  of  action  on  Human  Rights  Council 
resolution  24/24.  The  non-implementation  of  that 
Assembly resolution has led to the Council’s continued 
implementation of the provisions of its resolution 24/24. 
In that context, we are not in a position to support the 
recently  elaborated  Guidelines  against  Intimidation 
or  Reprisals,  that  is,  the  San  José  Guidelines.  We 
further make an appeal to the President of the General 
Assembly to heed the instructions of resolution 68/144.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 
67.
The meeting rose at 4.05 p.m.
15-37052
9/9
