United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
40th plenary meeting
Monday, 26 October 2015, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.40
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  González 
Franco (Paraguay), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 42
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/70/120)
Draft resolution (A/70/L.2)
Mr.  Khoshroo  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 
the honour to address the General Assembly today on 
behalf of the 120 Members of the United Nations that 
are  members  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM), 
and would like to begin by extending the Movement’s 
warmest  welcome 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba, to this meeting.
The  Assembly,  for  23  consecutive  years,  has 
expressed its overwhelming support for and solidarity 
with the Government and the people of Cuba through 
its decisive votes in favour of the resolutions calling for 
lifting of the United States of America embargo against 
Cuba. Last year, 188 Member States voted in favour of 
resolution 69/5 on that subject.
The Non-Aligned Movement has always reiterated 
its strongest opposition to unilateral coercive measures 
with  extraterritorial  effect.  NAM  has  repeatedly 
reiterated its call on the Government of the United States 
of  America  to  put  an  end  to  its  unilateral  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba, which 
is  contrary  to  international  law,  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and the norms and principles governing 
peaceful relations among States. It also violates Cuba’s 
right to interact with the international community.
The  embargo  has  had  and  continues  to  have 
extremely  adverse  impacts  on  the  well-being  of  the 
Cuban people. The direct and indirect damage caused 
by the undeserved embargo against Cuba is enormous. 
It affects all crucial sectors of the economy, including 
public  health,  nutrition  and  agriculture,  as  well  as 
banking, trade, investment and tourism. It denies Cuba 
access to markets, development aid from international 
financial  institutions  and  technology  transfers,  and  it 
creates impediments for the socioeconomic development 
of the country. The embargo is also the main obstacle 
to broader access to the Internet, the exchange of ideas 
and  the  development  of  cultural,  sport  and  scientific 
relations.  The  continuation  of  the  embargo  is  totally 
unjustifiable  and  hampers  Cuba’s  efforts  to  achieve 
sustainable development.
to 
the  application  of 
The  cumulative  economic  damage  to  the  Cuban 
people  due 
the  economic, 
commercial and financial blockade of the United States 
against Cuba, taking into account the depreciation of the 
dollar in relation to the price of gold on the international 
market,  amounts  to  $833.7  billion.  At  current  prices, 
over all those years the blockade has caused damages 
of over $121 billion.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-33534 (E)
*1533534*
A/70/PV.40 
26/10/2015
the  current  Administration  of 
NAM  considers  the  establishment  of  diplomatic 
relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  to 
be  an  initial  positive  step  in  the  process  towards  the 
normalization of bilateral relations. At the same time, 
it  should  be  noted  that  the  implementation  of  the 
blockade  against  Cuba  remains  unchanged.  Indeed, 
under 
the  United 
States, the blockade has been further tightened and its 
territorial  implementation  further  intensified  through 
the imposition of 42 fines on United States and foreign 
entities amounting to more than $13.2 billion, the most 
notorious of which are the $1.7 billion fine imposed on 
the  German  bank  Commerzbank  and  the $7.6-million 
fine  imposed  on  the  United  States  company  PayPal. 
While  the  regulations  issued  by  the  United  States 
Departments  of  Commerce  and  the  Treasury  on 
15 January were steps in the right direction in areas such 
as travel to Cuba, telecommunications and remittances, 
they  are  limited  in  scope  and  modify  only  certain 
aspects related to the implementation of the blockade.
Despite  the  historic  decision  of  the  United  States 
President  to  notify  the  United  States  Congress  of  his 
decision to remove Cuba from the so-called list of State 
sponsors of international terrorism — a list on which 
Cuba should have never been included — that has not 
meant an easing of the intricacies of all the prohibitions 
and  restrictions  established  by  the  blockade  laws  and 
regulations imposed against that country. For its part, 
the  United  States  Congress  has  not  approved  any  of 
the  bills  seeking  to  eliminate  some  of  the  blockade 
regulations.
Based on all this, NAM upholds its call for an end 
to  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade 
imposed by the United States against Cuba. We recall 
that,  last  year,  188  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution  on  this 
item.  That  number  signifies  near  unanimity  within 
the  international  community  in  demanding  an  end  to 
the  five-decade  embargo  and  full  adherence  to  the 
principles  of  mutual  respect  and  non-interference  in 
the internal affairs of Cuba. Currently, over 190 nations 
engage economically and politically with Cuba, while 
the United States stands alone in pursuing its unjustified 
economic sanctions policy.
The Non-Aligned Movement once again urges the 
United  States  of  America  to  yield  to  the  will  of  the 
overwhelming majority of the international community 
and  to  rectify  its  failed  polices  by  fully  complying 
with all General Assembly resolutions that call for an 
immediate and complete end to the embargo imposed 
on Cuba.
Mr. Morejón Pazmiño (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): 
I  have  the  special  honour  to  address  the  General 
Assembly today on behalf of the Community of Latin 
American and Caribbean States (CELAC).
the 
CELAC  welcomes 
re-establishment  of 
diplomatic  relations  between  the  United  States  and 
Cuba,  which  opens  a  new  chapter  in  the  history  of 
peace  and  coexistence  between  American  States.  We 
acknowledge  the  intention  expressed  by  President 
Obama to end the economic, commercial and financial 
blockade that the United States has maintained against 
Cuba for 56 years.
However,  the  embargo  remains  a  reality  for  the 
Cuban  people.  It  undeniably  remains  the  primary 
obstacle to Cuba’s normal development. The Secretary-
General’s  report  (A/70/120)  confirms  the  cost  to 
Cuba  of  that  policy,  which  causes  immeasurable  and 
unjustifiable  damage  to  the  well-being  of  the  Cuban 
people.  It  runs  counter  to  the  desire  for  peace  of  the 
Latin American people, expressed in the proclamation 
of Latin America as a zone of peace. In our opinion, the 
economic, commercial and financial blockade imposed 
against  Cuba  contravenes  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the 
principles  and  purposes  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and international law.
CELAC  reiterates  its  vigorous  rejection  of  the 
application  of  laws  and  measures  that  contradict 
international  law,  such  as  the  Helms-Burton  Law, 
including its extraterritorial provisions, and urges the 
Government of the United States of America to end its 
implementation.  The  United  States  Congress  has  the 
authority to completely end the blockade against Cuba. 
We note the executive orders issued by President Obama 
as of January, including the removal of Cuba from the 
list of countries that sponsor terrorism, on which it has 
never  belonged,  which  attest  to  broad  powers  of  the 
United States President to modify the unjust policy of 
the blockade.
CELAC reiterates its special declaration on the need 
for the United States to end its economic, commercial 
and  financial  blockade  against  Cuba,  adopted  at  the 
third  Summit  of  the  Community  of  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  States,  held  in  Belén,  Costa  Rica,  on 
28  and  29  January,  calling  on  the  Government  of  the 
United States to comply with the series of resolutions 
adopted by the General Assembly and to respond to the 
2/25 
15-33534
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.40
repeated  demands  of  the  countries  of  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean to end its economic, commercial and 
financial blockade of Cuba. CELAC reiterates its grave 
concern  about  and  rejection  of  the  intensification  of 
the extraterritorial dimension of the blockade and the 
growing  hindrance  of  Cuba’s  international  financial 
transactions, which contradict the political will of the 
international community.
The Charter of the United Nations enshrines rights, 
obligations and principles that have become part of the 
legal  heritage  not  only  of  international  law  but  of  all 
humankind,  and  must  not  be  the  object  of  violations 
or undermining by any Member. Member States must 
adapt  their  national  legislation  in  accordance  with 
the  rights,  obligations  and  principles  enshrined  by 
our founding Charter. For those reasons, CELAC will 
decisively  support  draft  resolution  A/70/L.2,  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba”, and commends the effort of the 
sister  Republic  of  Cuba  to  draft  language  adapted  to 
current circumstances.
We stress the inconsistency between the imposition 
of  unilateral  measures  that  are  not  supported  by 
international  law  and  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the 
principles  and  purposes  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. We reiterate our call on the United States to 
accept the call of the countries of Latin America and 
the Caribbean and all regions of the world, as well as 
of its own people, to put an end once and for all to its 
unjust blockade of the Republic of Cuba.
With those words I close my remarks on behalf of 
CELAC. I will now speak in my national capacity.
Ecuador would like to add that it is cause for sadness 
to hear the Government of the United States claim to 
have ended its 50-year embargo. The United States is 
proposing to change its 50-year blockade not because it 
has violated inter-American law, international law, the 
rights of the Cuban people or human rights, but because 
the embargo has not worked. Ecuador believes that this 
implies  no  concession.  This  is  about  justice  and  the 
dignity of the Cuban people, who have put up 50 years 
of heroic resistance.
Our  peoples  will  never  again  accept  trusteeship, 
interference or intervention. Our memory is lacerated 
by the abuses and violence of the past, even if we are 
asked to forget them and look only to the future as if 
nothing  had  happened.  For  that  reason,  Ecuador  will 
vote in favour of the draft resolution before us not only 
because  it  is  a  just  cause.  It  is  deplorable  that  in  the 
twenty-first  century  some  continue  to  undermine  the 
founding principles of the Charter of the United Nations 
and  international  law,  and  to  hinder  the  inclusive 
sustainable economic development of other peoples and 
States.
Ecuador  looks  forward  with  hope  towards  the 
restoration  of  diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba  and 
the United States and hopes that the process will lead 
to the end to the blockade and the closing of the base 
at  Guantanamo.  That  will  not  constitute  a  concession 
on the part of any Power; instead, it will represent the 
triumph of justice and the dignity of the Cuban people, 
as expressed by the President of the Republic of Ecuador 
in the general debate of this session (see A/70/PV.15). 
We reiterate and restate that view today.
The  Group  of  77  and  China  welcomes 
Mr. Mamabolo (South Africa): Allow me to register 
the following remarks on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China. I wish also to acknowledge the presence of the 
honourable Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic 
of Cuba, His Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla.
the 
re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  between  the 
Republic of Cuba and the United States. In that context, 
we welcome the bold initiative of President Raúl Castro 
and President Barack Obama. That joint initiative is a 
significant first step towards the full normalization of 
relations between Cuba and the United States. However, 
it needs to be followed by the immediate lifting of the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  against  Cuba.  Since  it  has  been 
amply  recognized  that  the  blockade  is  harmful  to  the 
Cuban  people,  it  is  high  time  for  the  Congress  of  the 
United States to put an end to the embargo. The Group 
of 77 and China supports Cuba’s decision to embrace 
this  rapprochement,  despite  the  illegal  nature  of  the 
imposition of the blockade and the immense human and 
economic suffering and hardship endured by the Cuban 
people for over 50 years.
The  Group  of  77  and  China  is  of  the  view  that, 
although President Obama performed an act of historical 
justice when he notified the United States Congress of 
his decision to remove Cuba from the list of so-called 
State  sponsors  of  international  terrorism  —  a  list  on 
which  Cuba  should  have  never  been  included  in  the 
first place — that has not meant an easing of all of the 
prohibitions and restrictions established by the blockade 
laws  and  regulations  imposed  against  that  sister 
15-33534
3/25
A/70/PV.40 
26/10/2015
country. It is disheartening to note that the United States 
Congress has not approved any of the bills seeking to 
eliminate some of the remaining blockade regulations. 
However, so far, 10 legal initiatives have been presented 
in  Congress  to  reinforce  several  fundamental  aspects 
related  to  the  implementation  of  that  policy  and  to 
prevent  the  approval  by  President  Obama  of  new 
executive  measures  and  the  implementation  of  those 
already adopted.
areas  such  as  travel  to  Cuba,  telecommunications 
and  remittances,  those  measures  are  limited  in  scope 
and  will  address  only  the  tip  of  the  iceberg.  More 
commitments  are  therefore  needed.  We  must  also 
denounce  the  constraints  placed  on  Cuba’s  right  to 
carry  out  financial  transactions  abroad.  All  countries 
deserve to be allowed to do business in an open and just 
environment, which is a sovereign right that needs to 
be recognized.
The  Group  of  77  and  China  would  like  to  submit 
that, following 17 December 2014, the implementation 
of the blockade against Cuba has remained unchanged. 
The most notorious proof of that fact are the $1.71 billion 
fine imposed on the German bank Commerzbank and the 
$7,658,300 fine imposed on the United States company 
PayPal. Despite some of the positive overtures that have 
been extended to date by Washington, D.C., it remains 
a  cause  for  concern  that,  under  the  Administration 
of  President  Obama,  the  blockade  has  been  further 
tightened  and  its  territorial  implementation  and  grip 
intensified through the imposition of 42 fines on United 
States and foreign entities totalling $13,279,148,196.
The Group of 77 and China joins the international 
community  in  condemning  the  unilateral  blockade  of 
Cuba and calls on the United States to initiate measures 
to immediately repeal those inhumane actions designed 
to illicitly punish a nation. Such measures are contrary 
to  the  principles,  purposes  and  spirit  of  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  especially  the  principle  of  the 
sovereign  equality  of  States  and  non-intervention  in 
the  domestic  affairs  of  Member  States.  The  severe 
economic  and  financial  restrictions  that  stifle  the 
economic  and  social  development  of  Cuba  further 
exacerbate the hardships and suffering of the people of 
Cuba. That must come to an end.
The  Group  reiterates  its  unconditional  support 
for  the  implementation  of  the  recommendations  of 
resolution  69/5  and  takes  this  opportunity  to  appeal 
once again to the international community to redouble 
its  efforts  to  promote  constructive  and  transparent 
dialogue  between  the  two  countries,  with  a  view  to 
achieving the objectives of all the resolutions already 
adopted  by  the  United  Nations  on  the  matter  and  to 
ensure  the  sustainable  and  further  progress  of  the 
people of Cuba.
While 
issued  by 
the  regulations 
the  United 
States  Departments  of  Commerce  and  the  Treasury 
on  15  January  were  steps  in  the  right  direction  in 
Despite the difficulties that Cuba has experienced 
due to the economic, commercial and financial embargo, 
that  country,  in  demonstration  of  its  international 
solidarity, has consistently supplied medical assistance 
of  the  highest  quality  at  the  international  level.  More 
than  50,000  health  workers  trained  in  Cuba  are 
providing services in 66 countries, including in Sierra 
Leone, on the front lines of the Ebola crisis.
Throughout  all  these  years,  the  embargo  and 
blockade have caused damages estimated at more than 
$121.19 billion. Therefore, in conclusion, the Group of 
77 and China reiterates yet again its call for the embargo 
and  blockade  against  Cuba  to  cease.  It  is  the  most 
unjust, severe and longest-lasting system of unilateral 
sanctions ever applied to any country. Failure to do so 
would cause history to judge harshly the players that are 
continuing  to  perpetuate  the  aforementioned  system. 
This  historical  injunction  remains  ever  more  relevant 
and  timely  as  we  move  towards  the  implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1). We also need to make a commitment 
in this forum not to leave the Cuban people behind.
Mr. Minah (Sierra Leone): It is indeed an honour 
for  me  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African 
States on draft resolution A/70/L.2, entitled “Necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba”.
At  the  outset,  the  African  Group  welcomes  the 
re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  between  the 
United States and Cuba, which we view as a significant 
step  in  fostering  closer  bilateral  ties  between  the  two 
nations.  While  noting  such  positive  achievements, 
the  Group  continues  to  reaffirm  its  condemnation  of 
the  ongoing  economic  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba. We note that it has been over 50 years since those 
crippling sanctions were imposed and that it has been 
two  decades  since  this  item  was  first  placed  on  the 
agenda of the General Assembly.
4/25 
15-33534
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.40
The  African  Group  is  aware  that  the  economic 
sanctions  continue  to  cause  great  economic  hardship 
for  the  people  of  Cuba,  particularly  the  poor  and 
most vulnerable. We call for an immediate end to the 
economic  embargo  and  reaffirm  that  it  is  imperative 
for the promotion of better standards of living for the 
people  of  Cuba,  particularly  in  view  of  the  theme  of 
“leaving  no  one  behind”,  as  enshrined  in  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). 
We encourage and fully endorse the ongoing spirit of 
dialogue that continues between Cuba and the United 
States,  aimed  at  resolving  all  outstanding  issues 
between  the  two  nations.  While  reaffirming  our  full 
support for the draft resolution that we have gathered 
today to consider, we continue to reiterate our call on 
the  Government  of  the  United  States  to  lift  the  long-
standing embargo against Cuba.
Speaking  in  my  national  capacity,  on  this  day  in 
this  Hall,  let  me  say  that  Sierra  Leone  adds  its  voice 
to all of those who call for a new beginning and a new 
chapter  in  the  relationship  between  the  two  States 
involved. In particular, Sierra Leone joins its voice with 
all those asking that the shackles of the past be cut and 
the promise of a truly diplomatically and economically 
liberated Cuba be allowed to stand. Beyond consensus, 
beyond majority and by near unanimity, the Assembly 
has  called  for  a  lifting  of  the  embargo  and  this  year, 
Sierra Leone believes that we will stand on the right side 
of history and make that call loudly and emphatically.
Mr. Alotaibi (Kuwait): I have the honour to make 
this statement on behalf of the States members of the 
Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC).
At  the  outset,  the  States  members  of  the  OIC 
welcome  the  significant  step  of  the  restoration  of 
diplomatic  relations  between  the  Governments  of  the 
United  States  and  Cuba,  and  the  importance  of  that 
step in furthering the normalization of the bilateral ties 
between both nations. Nevertheless, and in spite of the 
aforementioned positive step, the issue of the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  against  Cuba  remains.  Such  unilateral 
action  taken  by  the  United  States  has  done  harm  not 
only to the Cuban economy, but also to the well-being 
of the Cuban people and Cuban nationals living abroad, 
thereby  creating  unnecessary  economic  hardship  for 
them.
Furthermore, 
the  decades-long  embargo  has 
impeded  socioeconomic  and  development  progress. 
In  addition,  the  unilateral  blockade  affects  not  only 
Cuba, but also extends to third countries, and entities 
and companies that face imposed fines for engaging in 
commercial activity with Cuba. The OIC believes that 
such  unilateral  actions  run  counter  to  the  principles 
and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations. The 
OIC reiterates its deep concern regarding the negative 
impact of the unilateral blockade on the Cuban people 
and  believes  that  the  continuation  of  the  embargo  is 
unjustifiable  and  hinders  Cuban  efforts  to  achieve 
sustainable development.
The OIC recalls that the text before us has, over the 
past few years, garnered the overwhelming support of 
the States Members of the United Nations. Continuing 
to  disregard  the  international  community’s  collective 
will  weakens  multilateralism  and  undermines  the 
credibility  of  the  United  Nations.  The  OIC  supports 
draft  resolution  A/70/L.2  and  calls  upon  the  States 
Members of the United Nations to vote in favour of it.
Mr.  Rattray  (Jamaica):  I  have  the  honour  to 
address the General Assembly on behalf of the 14 States 
members  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM). 
CARICOM  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China, the Non-Aligned 
Movement and the Community of Latin American and 
Caribbean States.
to 
The  Caribbean  Community  continues  to  reiterate 
its  unequivocal  opposition 
the  United  States’ 
imposition of the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo against Cuba, which has been opposed by the 
overwhelming majority of the international community 
for  the  past  23  consecutive  years.  The  unilateral 
imposition  of  extraterritorial  laws  on  third  States  is 
contrary to both the letter and the spirit of the Charter of 
the United Nations, and the embargo itself runs counter 
to  the  principles  of  multilateralism,  international  law, 
sovereignty  and  free  trade  that  this  body  consistently 
champions.
The  punitive  embargo  is  of  particular  concern 
to  CARICOM,  which  shares  a  history,  culture  and 
brotherhood with the people of Cuba. Cuba is the most 
populous State of the Caribbean region and an integral 
part of the Pan-Caribbean process. Caribbean ties with 
Cuba have historical significance, cemented by years of 
active cooperation at various levels. The States members 
of  CARICOM  continue  to  maintain  close  relations 
with  Cuba  through  a  wide  range  of  programmes  of 
cooperation  in  areas  including  trade,  health  care, 
infrastructure  and  human  resource  development.  Our 
future  regional  development  is  in  many  ways  reliant 
15-33534
5/25
A/70/PV.40 
26/10/2015
upon our collective advancement and progress. In that 
context,  we  view  the  embargo  as  not  only  a  punitive 
act against Cuba, but as an impediment to our shared 
regional development.
CARICOM  States  declare  our  unstinting  support  for 
draft resolution A/70/L.2 on the necessity of ending the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba.
CARICOM  welcomes 
the  re-establishment  of 
diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States. We believe that this is an important positive step 
in  the  process  towards  the  normalization  of  bilateral 
relations  between  the  two  States.  We  also  applaud 
President Barack Obama’s expressed intention to open 
a  new  chapter  in  the  relations  between  both  nations. 
We commend him for recognizing that the blockade is 
harmful to the Cuban people and for urging the United 
States Congress to put an end to the punitive policy.
While the regulations issued by the Departments of 
Commerce and the Treasury on 15 January concerning 
travel  to  Cuba,  telecommunications  and  remittances 
are  steps  pointing  in  the  right  direction,  they  are 
still  limited  in  scope  and  only  modify  some  aspects 
related  to  the  implementation  of  the  blockade.  We 
remain  guardedly  optimistic  that  the  recent  overtures 
made  by  the  United  States  will  be  complemented  by 
an increased willingness to consider the opinions and 
concerns  of  its  international  friends  and  partners.  On 
that issue, global opinion could hardly be conveyed in 
a more convincing or consistent manner. Our welcome 
of the recent pronouncements and actions of the United 
States  Government  carries  with  it  the  expectation 
that  the  remaining  historical  wrongs  will  be  righted 
expeditiously.
CARICOM  reiterates  its  support  for  the  right  of 
the  Cuban  people  to  self-determination  in  a  manner 
beneficial  to  their  social  and  economic  development. 
Indeed,  Cuba’s  peaceful,  generous  and  cooperative 
international  stance  merits  nothing  less.  We  therefore 
call  once  more  for  an  end  to  the  embargo,  which  has 
preserved a state of tension between two neighbouring 
countries and generated great concern and widespread 
unease throughout our subregion.
CARICOM  continues  to  enjoy  friendly  relations 
with  both  Cuba  and  the  United  States.  Our  two 
neighbours — a mere 90 miles apart — have produced 
great  scholars,  scientists  and  global  leaders.  They 
possess proud and noble histories and are populated by 
friendly, open and loving peoples. Recent developments 
have  renewed  our  hope  for  the  full  normalization  of 
Cuba-United  States  relations.  However,  we  consider 
the lifting of the embargo to be a prerequisite for any 
meaningful rapprochement. It is within this context that 
Mr.  Scappini  Ricciardi  (Paraguay)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  I  am  honoured  to  speak  in  this  debate  on 
behalf of the States members of the Southern Common 
Market  (MERCOSUR)  and  associated  States.  At  the 
outset, I wish to extend a warm welcome to Mr. Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba, and his delegation.
Like  many  States  represented  here,  MERCOSUR 
and  its  associated  States,  having  closely  followed 
regional  and 
international  political  developments, 
welcome  the  re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations 
between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of  America,  and 
cannot  but  recognize  that  they  represent  a  positive 
initial first step towards the normalization of relations, 
leading  to  greater  stability  in  Latin  America  and  the 
world.  MERCOSUR  congratulates  both  parties  on 
their  bold  initiative.  However,  nine  months  after  the 
re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  between  the 
two  States,  the  embargo  imposed  unilaterally  by  the 
United States of America continues to incur significant 
humanitarian  and  economic  costs  that  prevent  the 
normal development of Cuba.
Since  the  signing  of  the  Treaty  of  Asunción, 
MERCOSUR  has  continued  to  defend  the  principles 
of  respect  for  sovereignty  and  good-neighbourliness 
and  rejected  unilateral,  extraterritorial  and  coercive 
measures,  which  in  this  particular  case  have  caused 
irreparable  damage  to  Cuba  and  its  people.  In  that 
light,  MERCOSUR  considers 
the  economic, 
trade  and  financial  blockade  constitutes  a  violation 
of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, 
the  norms  of  international  law,  non-intervention  and 
non-interference 
the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  and  freedom  of  international 
trade and navigation.
internal  affairs, 
that 
in 
MERCOSUR  and  its  associated  States  reaffirm 
their commitment to multilateralism as a legitimate tool 
in resolving disputes and an effective way to promote 
international  cooperation  and  understanding  among 
peoples. We believe, now more than ever, that in this 
new  context,  the  time  has  come  to  put  an  end  to  the 
unilateral embargo.
In  conclusion,  MERCOSUR  again  supports  and 
the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Necessity 
endorses 
6/25 
15-33534
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.40
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba”, which has been submitted for the twenty-
fourth consecutive time to the General Assembly, and 
urges all Member States to vote for it.
Mr.  Ibrahim  (Malaysia):  I  have  the  honour  to 
address the General Assembly on behalf of the 10 States 
members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
(ASEAN):  Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Indonesia, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Myanmar,  the 
Philippines,  Singapore,  Thailand,  Viet  Nam  and  my 
own country, Malaysia.
We  express  our  support  for  draft  resolution 
A/70/L.2,  on  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against the Republic of Cuba. ASEAN aligns 
itself with the statement made by the representative of the 
Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement and that made by the representative of South 
Africa on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
Since  this  text  was  first  introduced  in  1992,  the 
General  Assembly  has  consistently  adopted  it  by  an 
overwhelming  majority.  ASEAN  member  States  have 
voted  unanimously  in  favour  of  the  resolution  for  the 
past  14  years.  It  is  our  firm  belief  that  differences 
between States should be settled through engagement, 
not  confrontation;  by  inclusion,  not  isolation;  and  in 
accordance with the fundamental principles of sovereign 
equality,  non-interference  and  non-intervention  as 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
In  that  regard,  ASEAN  welcomes  the  restoration 
of  diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States.  We  also  welcome  the  lifting  of  a  number  of 
restrictions  on  travel  and  remittances  by  the  United 
States  since  16  January.  Those  are  important  first 
steps  toward  the  normalization  of  bilateral  relations, 
and have been rightly hailed as key to better regional 
relations in the Americas. We believe that this positive 
move will be mutually beneficial to the peoples of both 
countries and contribute to peace, security and stability 
and enhanced cooperation in the region.
Going forward, an even more important step will be 
for the United States to end its economic, commercial 
and financial embargo on Cuba. This would significantly 
improve the quality of life and living standards of the 
Cuban people and contribute to the economic and social 
development of Cuba. Ending the embargo would also 
advance  the  Assembly’s  efforts  towards  achieving  an 
inclusive post-2015 development agenda.
ASEAN strongly urges the United States and Cuba 
to take this opportunity to chart a new way forward. We 
recognize that much remains to be done. We encourage 
the  United  States  and  Cuba  to  commit  to  open  and 
constructive  dialogue,  without  preconditions  and 
underpinned by mutual respect. ASEAN joins the other 
members  of  the  Assembly  in  reiterating  our  strong 
support for the lifting of the unilateral embargo against 
Cuba as soon as possible.
Mr.  Montaño  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Once 
again,  Mexico  rejects  the  unilateral  measures  against 
the  Republic  of  Cuba,  including  the  imposition  for 
more  than  50  years  of  an  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  that  runs  counter  to  international 
law and relations among States. We firmly believe that 
multilateralism is and will continue to be the best way 
to resolve disputes and to ensure peaceful coexistence 
among States.
As  we  have  done  in  previous  years,  today  we 
reiterate that the only organs that can impose political, 
military or economic sanctions are the Security Council 
and the General Assembly. No State should use force to 
impose unilateral measures that affect the development 
and  prosperity  of  other  peoples.  About  a  year  ago,  in 
Veracruz, Mexico, the Heads of State and Government 
of the Ibero-American Community of Nations reiterated 
their vigorous rejection of laws and measures that run 
counter to international law, and urged the Government 
of the United States to comply with the 23 resolutions 
adopted by the General Assembly with a view to ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
against  the  Republic  of  Cuba.  The  third  Summit  of 
Heads of State and Government of the Community of 
Latin American and Caribbean States issued a similar 
declaration urging the President of the United States to 
use the powers granted him by the Constitution to make 
significant changes to the way in which the embargo is 
being imposed.
We recognize that each State is free and sovereign. 
In line with the principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations,  we  must  respect  the  self-determination  of 
the peoples of the world. Sustainable development for 
all peoples must be given priority over economic and 
political interests. We therefore welcome the measures 
taken by the Cuban Government to meet its international 
commitments  in  the  area  of  development,  which  will 
15-33534
7/25
A/70/PV.40 
26/10/2015
benefit its people. In spite of the adverse circumstances 
it  has  faced  for  over  50  years,  the  Republic  of  Cuba 
has attained high levels of human development. Cuba 
will no doubt be a strategic partner in implementing the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1), which will help to build fairer and more equitable 
societies in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Mexico welcomes the re-establishment of diplomatic 
relations between Cuba and the United States of America, 
which  will  lead  to  the  full  normalization  of  relations 
between the two neighbouring and friendly countries. 
We firmly believe that a renewed relationship between 
the two countries will also help to decisively strengthen 
dialogue and cooperation among all of the nations of the 
hemisphere.  As  part  of  this  process,  Mexico  believes 
that  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo against Cuba would help to shift and improve 
its economy and ensure its full reintegration and access 
to  financial  flows  and  international  investment  that 
would indisputably benefit our region.
Mexico  recognizes  and  supports  the  process  of 
updating Cuba’s economic and social model, which will 
allow us to support each other when needed. The visit to 
Havana this month by our Minister for Foreign Affairs, 
Claudia  Ruiz  Massieu,  shows  that  both  countries  are 
interested  in  strengthening  dialogue  and  cooperation 
and deepening bilateral relations. The Government of 
Mexico is consolidating its political and trade relations 
with  Cuba  in  an  effort  to  strengthen  the  economic 
complementary agreement.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  underscore  that  Mexico 
has  always  maintained  brotherly  bonds  of  friendship, 
solidarity and respect with the people of Cuba, and we 
once again reiterate our support for the draft resolution 
submitted for consideration by the General Assembly.
Ms.  Mejía  Vélez  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Colombia eagerly endorses the statements made by the 
representatives  of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement, South Africa on behalf of the Group of 77 
and  China,  Ecuador  on  behalf  of  the  Community  of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States,  and  Paraguay 
on behalf of the Southern Common Market. I welcome 
His Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, and his delegation to the 
General Assembly today.
Like  others  who  have  spoken  today,  we  wish  to 
highlight the process leading towards the normalization 
of bilateral relations between Cuba and the United States 
of  America.  When  the  President  of  Colombia,  Juan 
Manuel Santos Calderón, visited New York last year, he 
said that he had faith that the United States and Cuba 
could achieve a working relationship that would enable 
the United States to lift the embargo. That is why my 
country  welcomes  the  re-establishment  of  diplomatic 
relations  between  the  two  countries  and  is  optimistic 
about the willingness expressed by President Obama to 
end the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
against Cuba. We firmly believe that such political will 
will serve as a basis to make this a reality that would 
benefit the people of that sister Latin American nation.
Since resolution 47/19 was adopted on 24 November 
1992,  my  Government,  like  all  Governments  of  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  and  the  overwhelming 
majority of the States Members of the Organization, has 
expressed its support for Cuba and voted in favour of 
the resolutions on the necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba. The 188 votes 
cast in favour of resolution 69/5 reflect the support and 
solidarity  of  Member  States  and  reaffirm  the  need  to 
end a policy that has lasted for more than 50 years. My 
country believes, as we have said on previous occasions, 
that the embargo runs counter to international law and 
the  spirit  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.
international 
In  line  with  the  resolution,  my  country  reaffirms 
its  policy  of  respect  for 
law  and 
adherence  to  the  principles  of  political  independence, 
the  self-determination  of  peoples,  non-intervention 
and  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  other 
nations.  Consequently,  Colombia  does  not  support 
such  measures,  which  run  counter  to  the  economic 
and  commercial  development  and  the  welfare  of  the 
population.  My  country  considers  it  indispensable 
that Member States make progress in building links of 
cooperation  and  friendship  based  on  multilateralism 
and  the  principle  of  sovereign  equality,  enshrined  in 
Chapter I of the Charter of the United Nations.
Mrs.  Nguyen  Phuong  Nga  (Viet  Nam):  At  the 
outset, I would to like to extend my warmest welcome 
to Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba.
Viet  Nam  endorses  the  statements  made  earlier 
on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the  Group 
of  77  and  China  and  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian Nations. We thank the Secretary-General for the 
comprehensive  report  (A/70/120),  which  lays  out  the 
8/25 
15-33534
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.40
position  of  Member  States  on  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and 
imposed  by 
the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba  and  the 
assessments by United Nations agencies of the impact 
of the embargo.
financial  embargo 
Since 
the  adoption  of 
resolution  47/19,  on 
24  November  1992, 
the  General  Assembly  has 
repeatedly adopted resolutions calling upon the United 
States of America to end its economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo  against  Cuba,  the  most  recent  of 
which  is  resolution  69/5,  adopted  on  28  October  2014 
by 188 votes in favour. Viet Nam’s principled position 
opposes the imposition of any unilateral embargo and 
coercive measures by one State on another, and today 
we will vote unreservedly in favour of draft resolution 
A/70/L.2 in its entirety.
Through its vote, Viet Nam wishes to reiterate its 
firm  conviction  that  the  United  States  of  America’s 
blockade  against  Cuba  for  more  than  five  decades  is 
contrary  to  international  law  and  the  fundamental 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
causes  untold  hardship  for  the  Cuban  people.  That 
policy runs counter to the common desire of all nations 
in  the  world  to  build  sound  and  equal  international 
relations, regardless of their political systems and based 
on  respect  for  each  nation’s  rights  to  choose  its  own 
path  of  development.  Viet  Nam  joins  other  members 
of the Assembly in calling for the immediate lifting of 
the  unjustified  unilateral  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo against Cuba.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 70/1), which our leaders adopted one month 
ago, has established a new paradigm for development, 
cooperation  and  solidarity  among  the  peoples  of  the 
world.  However,  that  ambitious  Agenda  will  not  be 
realized  if  the  fundamental  freedoms  and  rights  of 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  are  still  being 
disregarded.
Viet  Nam  welcomes 
the  re-establishment  of 
diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States  of  America.  We  are  encouraged  by  the  United 
States  President’s  explicit  intention  to  open  a  new 
chapter  in  relations  with  Cuba,  urging  the  United 
States Congress to lift the blockade. We hope that this 
important  historic  opportunity  will  not  be  missed. 
The  continuation  of  the  blockade  against  Cuba  poses 
an essential obstacle to the normalization of relations 
between the two countries. Lifting the embargo would 
be beneficial for the people of both Cuba and the United 
States  of  America,  as  well  as  for  peace,  stability  and 
prosperity in the region and the world.
Despite 
the  detrimental  repercussions  of 
the 
embargo,  Cuba  has  overcome  difficulties  and  made 
important  contributions  to  the  common  efforts  of  the 
international community to address global challenges. 
My delegation wishes to take this opportunity to reiterate 
Viet Nam’s friendship, cooperation and solidarity with 
Cuba.  We  will  continue  to  do  our  utmost  to  help  the 
fraternal people of Cuba to overcome difficulties and 
challenges caused by the embargo.
Mr. Mahmoud (Egypt): Let me start by welcoming 
Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba, and assure him of Egypt’s continued 
support and solidarity with the Government and people 
of Cuba.
Egypt  welcomes  the  establishment  of  diplomatic 
relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of 
America,  and  welcomes  the  United  States  President’s 
willingness  to  work  to  lift  the  blockade  imposed  on 
Cuba  for  more  than  five  decades.  We  also  recognize 
the  advancements  made  in  the  regulations  issued  by 
the  Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  in 
some areas. We hope that those steps will lead to the 
normalization of bilateral relations in all their aspects 
between the two countries.
However,  while  that  progress  constitutes  a  step 
in  the  right  direction,  it  remains  insufficient,  as  the 
imposition  of  the  blockade  has  remained  unchanged, 
and the laws and regulations underpinning it continue 
to be in force and implemented with the utmost severity. 
We  still  believe  that  the  United  States  of  America 
needs to take many steps and brave decisions towards 
the immediate lifting of the embargo imposed against 
Cuba for the full normalization of their relations. For 
five decades, the United States of America has imposed 
stringent  restrictions  on  the  Cuban  people’s  access 
to  food,  medicines,  education  and  high-technology 
goods. The embargo has had detrimental repercussions 
on  many  sectors  of  the  Cuban  economy,  generating 
unnecessary  shortages  and  suffering  for  the  Cuban 
people.
We  believe  that  the  embargo  continues  to  be  an 
absurd  and  morally  insupportable  policy,  which  has 
not served the purpose of breaking the Cuban people’s 
determination to control their own future. Despite all 
the  detrimental  repercussions  and  adverse  impacts 
of  the  embargo,  the  Government  of  Cuba  has  made 
15-33534
9/25
A/70/PV.40 
26/10/2015
enormous  efforts  to  meet  the  needs  of  its  people. 
The more than 54 years of the embargo against Cuba 
have  proved  that,  in  this  globalized  world,  the  Cuban 
people can still survive, thanks to their perseverance, 
resistance and hope.
Finally, Egypt hopes that the dialogue between the 
two countries, based on mutual respect and observance 
of the principles of international law and the Charter of 
the United Nations, will lead to the immediate lifting of 
the embargo and normalization of the bilateral relations 
in all its aspects. In the current new context, we once 
again urge the United States of America to avail itself 
of this historic opportunity and immediately and fully 
comply  with  all  23  General  Assembly  resolutions  on 
the subject, which were adopted by the overwhelming 
majority  of  the  international  community,  and  lift  the 
unjustified embargo, which should never have existed 
and must cease once and for all. Egypt will continue its 
full support and solidarity with the Government and the 
people of Cuba.
Mr.  Ramírez  Carreño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): The Bolivarian Republic 
of Venezuela endorses the statements delivered by the 
representatives  of  Ecuador,  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran and South Africa on behalf of the Community of 
Latin American and Caribbean States, the Non-Aligned 
Movement and the Group of 77 plus China respectively.
The embargo imposed against Cuba by the United 
States  of  America  represents  a  system  of  unilateral 
sanctions  that  is  the  most  unjust,  severe  and  long-
lasting  embargo  ever  imposed  against  any  country 
in  modern  history.  It  has  inflicted  a  massive  human 
cost  on  the  Cuban  population.  It  is  also  a  flagrant 
violation  of  the  principles  of  respect  for  sovereignty 
and  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States 
and  the  rights  to  self-determination  and  development 
of peoples.
The brutal blockade of Cuba was basically designed 
to break the Cuban people’s determination to build a free 
and sovereign homeland. In addition to the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade,  the  sanctions 
system  against  Cuba  has  included  a  set  of  successive 
prohibitions  and  unilateral  coercive  measures  that 
have  had  a  cumulative  impact  on  our  Cuban  brothers 
over more than 50 years and have resulted in economic 
losses totalling more than $830 million. The sanctions 
also affect any organization or country, of which we are 
one, that attempts to maintain fraternal and cooperative 
technological,  commercial 
relations  —  economic, 
or  financial  —  with  our  sister  republic  of  Cuba.  The 
embargo  on  Cuba  is,  therefore,  an  effort  not  only  to 
damage  its  people’s  development  but  also  to  isolate 
them.  The  vote  here  today  in  the  Assembly  on  draft 
resolution A/70/L.2, the text of which will undoubtedly 
be adopted for the twenty-fourth time, will once again 
confirm not only that the United States has failed in its 
attempt to isolate Cuba, but that it is the United States 
Administration  that  has  completely  isolated  itself 
through its own policy.
Conversely, today’s adoption of the draft resolution 
will send a clear, strong message to the United States 
that not only should it end the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo that it has imposed on Cuba, but 
it should also cease its long-term practice of claiming to 
be the world’s policeman and imposing its political and 
economic decisions and visions on the rest of the world 
extraterritorially, in violation of international law and 
of respect for other countries’ sovereignty. The United 
States economic sanctions on Cuba are reprehensible, 
both  because  they  are  illegal  under  international  law 
and because they are examples of the punitive measures 
that  the  United  States  often  imposes  in  response  to 
pressures  and  interests  from  extremist  groups  outside 
its own political system.
The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  commends 
the atmosphere of dialogue that has led to the restoration 
of bilateral relations between the Governments of Cuba 
and the United States of America, and we would like 
to  highlight  President  Obama’s  acknowledgement 
that  the  sanctions  policy  has  failed  every  American 
Government  for  more  than  50  years.  We  should  add 
that the sanctions policy has not only been a failure for 
the United States Government, but it has also led to an 
extraordinary political and moral victory for the Cuban 
people in their resistance and steadfastness.
We would also like to emphasize that, if the United 
States  Government  wishes  to  maintain  cooperative, 
friendly relations with the rest of the world, and with 
our  region  of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  in 
particular,  it  should  stop  interfering  in  our  internal 
affairs,  stop  imposing  sanctions  as  it  has  done  for 
50  years  to  Cuba  and  is  now  doing  to  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela, and stop attempting to impose 
its  own  political  and  economic  ideas  on  others.  Our 
relations must be based on respect for our peoples’ self-
determination and sovereignty.
We  would  like  today’s  draft  resolution,  aimed 
at  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
10/25 
15-33534
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.40
blockade  of  Cuba  and  certain  to  be  adopted  by  an 
overwhelming  majority  in  the  Assembly  today,  to 
function as an instrument reflecting what is right and 
the need to enforce international law that will contribute 
to ensuring that the United States Congress abolishes 
all  of  its  coercive  measures  linked  to  the  economic 
blockade of Cuba, such as the 1992 Cuban Democracy 
Act  and  the  1996  Cuban  Liberty  and  Democratic 
Solidarity Act, and that the United States finally learns 
the lesson that its national legislature does not have the 
power to legislate against the world.
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela will vote in 
favour of the draft resolution out of the conviction and 
determination that the Cuban embargo has been a huge 
injustice and offence against the law that must end once 
and for all.
Finally,  we  would  like  to  welcome  the  presence 
here  today  of  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Cuba’s 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  and  through  him  send 
a  message  in  the  spirit  of  Chávez  and  Bolívar  to  the 
entire  Cuban  people  and  to  former  President  Fidel 
Castro  and  President  Raúl  Castro,  a  message  of 
solidarity, recognition, brotherhood and friendship, in 
the confidence that victory is ours. We shall overcome!
Mr.  Mukerji  (India):  India  associates  itself  with 
the statements delivered earlier by the representatives 
of  South  Africa  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  of 
Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. We also 
welcome  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba, to the Assembly today.
At the outset, I would first like to recall that today’s 
debate is taking place in the context of some welcome 
developments  in  the  bilateral  relations  between  Cuba 
and  the  United  States.  In  that  context,  I  would  like 
to  stress  that  India  warmly  welcomes  the  restoration 
of  diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States.  We  congratulate  the  Governments  and  the 
peoples of both nations on that historic event.
Every  year,  for  more  than  two  decades  now, 
the  General  Assembly  has  considered  the  issue  of 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  on  Cuba.  Each  time,  it 
has  consistently  rejected  the  imposition  of  laws  and 
regulations  with  extraterritorial  impact  and  all  other 
forms  of  coercive  economic  measures  that  hurt  the 
progress  and  prosperity  of  people  all  over  the  world. 
The Assembly has also called on States, in conformity 
with 
the 
their  obligations  under 
the  Charter  of 
United  Nations  and  international  law,  to  refrain  from 
promulgating and applying, and to repeal and invalidate, 
any laws and measures that have extraterritorial effects 
that impinge on the sovereignty of other States. There 
can be little doubt that the continued existence of this 
embargo in opposition to world opinion, as expressed 
by  the  Assembly,  undermines  multilateralism  and  the 
credibility of the United Nations itself.
As the world’s largest democracy, with an abiding 
faith  in  multilateralism,  India  stands  in  solidarity 
with  the  international  community  in  its  unambiguous 
rejection of domestic laws with extraterritorial impact. 
Embargoes  on  a  country  are  an  obstacle  to  the  full 
ability of its people, particularly children and women, 
to achieve economic and social development. They also 
hinder their full enjoyment of human rights, including, 
among  other  things,  the  right  to  development,  food, 
medical care and social services.
Successive reports of the Secretary-General — and 
this  year’s  report  (A/70/120)  is  no  exception  —  have 
established  that  the  United  States  embargo  on  Cuba, 
particularly  through  its  extraterritorial  effects,  has 
adversely affected the Cuban people and their country’s 
development efforts. It has also had a negative impact 
on  the  Cuban  economy,  which  has  been  forced  to 
bear  considerable  extra  costs  in  sourcing  products, 
technology  and  services,  and  it  has  discouraged 
investment  and 
technology  collaboration  between 
Cuba  and  third  countries.  In  that  context,  we  would 
like  to  acknowledge  the  Cuban  people’s  notable 
socioeconomic  and  development  achievements, 
in 
particular  Cuba’s  high  Human  Development  Index
ranking  and  its  achievement  of  several  Millennium 
Development  Goals  ahead  of  schedule,  despite  the 
difficult conditions that the embargo has imposed on it. 
Cuba’s acknowledged expertise in health care, achieved 
despite those conditions, enabled it to respond quickly, 
effectively and substantively to the Assembly’s call on 
all nations to respond to the Ebola crisis in Africa. In 
that context, the embargo is very ironic.
While  launching  the  transformative  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1),  world 
leaders  have  once  again  strongly  urged  all  States  to 
refrain from promulgating and applying any unilateral 
economic, financial or trade measures not in accordance 
with  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. In view of that consensus on the part of world 
leaders,  the  international  community  should  redouble 
its  efforts  to  promote  an  environment  free  from 
15-33534
11/25
A/70/PV.40 
26/10/2015
sanctions and embargoes. In that context, and logically, 
India  hopes  that  the  recent  positive  developments  in 
relations between Cuba and the United States will lead 
to a speedy end to the embargo. Until then, we support 
draft resolution A/70/L.2, submitted by Cuba, and wish 
our brothers in Cuba every success.
Mr. Boukadoum  (Algeria):  First  of  all,  I  warmly 
welcome His Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  and  wish  to 
convey through him the greetings of the people and the 
Government  of  Algeria  to  our  sisters  and  brothers  in 
Cuba.
Algeria aligns itself with the statements delivered 
earlier by the representative of South Africa on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China, by the representative of 
Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  by  the 
representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of the Group 
of African States and by the representative of Kuwait 
on behalf of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation. 
We also support the statements delivered earlier by the 
representative  of  Jamaica  on  behalf  of  the  Caribbean 
Community and by the representative of Paraguay on 
behalf of the Southern Common Market.
and 
financial 
commercial 
Algeria reiterates its stand concerning the continuing 
economic, 
embargo 
unilaterally imposed by the United States of America 
against  Cuba  for  more  than  a  half-century.  The 
consecutive  annual  adoption  by  an  overwhelming 
majority  of  the  members  of  the  General  Assembly 
of  a  draft  resolution  calling  for  the  lifting  of  the 
embargo against Cuba reflects the strong desire of the 
international community to put an end to that situation. 
Let  me  recall  that  Algeria  has  always  stressed  that 
Cuba,  like  all  other  Member  States,  has  the  right  to 
freedom  of  trade  and  navigation  and  to  expand  trade 
on  a  mutually  agreed-upon  basis  with  any  economic 
partner. Algeria has also fully shared the position that 
has regularly rejected the imposition of unilateral acts or 
extraterritorial  regulations  impeding  the  development 
of  any  country  and  all  forms  of  coercive  economic 
and trade measures. That position reflects the abiding 
principles of Algerian foreign policy.
I  would  like  to  stress  that  a  year  ago,  Algeria 
welcomed  the  courageous  and  bold  involvement  of 
Cuban  doctors  in  the  global  fight  against  the  Ebola 
epidemic.  We  thought  that  it  was  the  right  move  and 
example to follow, as well as an inspiration for the kind 
of standard relationship that we all strive for and benefit 
from. We were very happy to learn that all those who 
wanted to create the current more positive atmosphere 
have supported that remarkable move. In that regard, I 
would  like  to  conclude  by  welcoming  the  resumption 
of  diplomatic  relations  between  the  United  States  of 
America  and  Cuba,  and  we  see  as  extremely  positive 
signs  other  measures  and  actions  taken  recently  that 
will  ultimately  pave  the  way  for  a  full  normalization 
of relations.
Mr. Beck (Solomon Islands): I have the honour to 
deliver this statement on behalf of my Pacific neighbour 
Nauru and my own country, Solomon Islands, on agenda 
item 42, in relation to draft resolution A/70/L.2, calling 
for the lifting of the 53-year-old economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba.
Seventy  years  ago,  States  made  a  solemn 
commitment to stand up for the equal rights of big and 
small States. We ask our friend and partner, the United 
States  of  America,  to  maintain  an  open  policy  and 
embrace trust and confidence in restoring the rights of 
Cuba and its people that have been denied them by the 
blockade. Let us observe the principles and purposes of 
the Charter of the United Nations and the provisions of 
international law to promote good-neighbourly relations 
and make it possible for the Cuban population to freely 
practice their political and economic system. We must 
recognize  Cuba’s  convictions,  principles  and  values, 
which  govern  its  progress  and  prosperity.  We  should 
allow the Cuban population to enjoy the same quality 
of  life  as  all  its  neighbours.  Only  last  month,  leaders 
of the world adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development 
(resolution/70/1).  Our  new  Agenda 
calls  for  a  genuine  and  durable  partnership,  a  new 
political  relationship  and  a  new  form  of  international 
cooperation, so that we can meaningfully transform our 
world.
Every  year, 
the  Assembly  adopts,  by  an 
overwhelming  majority,  a  draft  resolution  that  seeks 
to  protect  commercial  freedom,  economic  rights 
and  financial  justice  for  the  Cuban  people.  This  is 
the  twenty-fourth  year  that  the  General  Assembly  is 
dealing  with  a  more  than  five-decades-old  issue  that 
has seen 11 United States Presidents and three Cuban 
Presidents.  Given  those  facts,  optimism  and  change 
are,  nevertheless,  in  the  air.  There  is  a  new  dawn 
breaking  in  Cuban  and  American  relations,  which 
Nauru and Solomon Islands join all in welcoming. The 
rapprochement  of  the  two  Governments  is  a  welcome 
development.  The  restoration  of  diplomatic  relations 
12/25 
15-33534
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.40
this  year  between  the  two  countries  is  an  essential 
step  towards  re-establishing  full  respect  and  civility 
between  the  two  close  neighbours,  which  are  set  90 
miles apart from one another geographically.
It must be noted that the economic, commercial and 
financial blockade by the United States on Cuba remains 
in  place,  although  incremental  changes  are  slowly 
taking place. The United States has an opportunity to 
break with the past and better understand its neighbour, 
Cuba. The United States of America must continue to 
put in place policies that allow for the full integration of 
Cuba into the global system and eliminate obstacles that 
hamper cooperation. Allow me to suggest normalizing 
relations  by  having  the  United  States  of  America’s 
legislative  branch  repeal  laws  that  have  been  used  to 
enforce the embargo.
When  the  United  States  and  Cuba  cooperate, 
the  whole  world  stands  to  benefit.  As  others  before 
me  have  stated,  we  have  witnessed  that  fact  in  the 
fight  against  Ebola,  and  we  know  that  the  world  will 
benefit  if  the  blockade  is  lifted.  Let  us  have  faith  in 
our  people  working  together  to  free  themselves  from 
fear and want and to live in dignity. On this occasion, 
the Governments and the people of Nauru and Solomon 
Islands  would  like  to  thank  the  Government  and  the 
people  of  Cuba  for  the  medical  scholarships  provided 
to  Pacific  small  island  developing  States  students.  In 
the last three years, more than 60 Cuban-trained Pacific 
islands doctors have returned to serve their people. We 
thank Cuba for their solidarity and friendship with our 
subregion  of  the  Pacific.  Solomon  Islands  and  Nauru 
support draft resolution A/70/L.2 in its entirety, and we 
call on all peace-loving countries to support the draft 
resolution as presented.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  First  of  all,  we  would  like  to  express  our 
gratitude to the Secretary-General for having prepared 
a  comprehensive  report  (A/70/120),  which  outlines 
the position of Member States in favour of ending the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  by  the 
United States against Cuba.
socioeconomic development of Cuba, as well as to the 
development of regional and international cooperation. 
The continuation of sanctions, which is a vestige of the 
cold war, amounts to an effort to intentionally hinder 
the Cuban people’s implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1),  which 
contains a direct appeal to all States:
“to  refrain  from  promulgating  and  applying  any 
unilateral  economic,  financial  or  trade  measures 
not  in  accordance  with  international  law  and  the 
Charter of the United Nations that impede the full 
achievement of economic and social development, 
particularly  in  developing  countries”  (resolution 
70/1, para. 30).
We  note  the  decisions  of  the  Government  of  the 
United  States  to  introduce  a  certain  easing  of  the 
embargo  regime.  We  consider  that  to  finally  end  the 
embargo  would  be  a  logical  outcome  of  the  process 
that began with the resumption of diplomatic relations 
between the United States and Cuba. The United States 
should  make  all  necessary  efforts  to  comply  with  the 
demands  of  its  own  domestic  public  opinion.  That 
would  not  only  be  in  the  interests  of  Cuba  and  the 
United  States  but  would  also  contribute  to  improving 
the situation around the island and allowing the Cuban 
people  to  enjoy  their  legitimate  rights  to  a  life  of 
dignity, and contribute to bolstering trade relations in 
the Caribbean.
Guided  by  the  founding  principles  of  the  Charter 
of the United Nations, which specify that any measures 
based on discrimination or intervention in a country’s 
internal affairs are unacceptable, the Russian Federation, 
like  the  majority  of  Member  States,  is  resolutely  in 
favour of a rapid lifting of the embargo against Cuba. 
Generally  speaking,  Russia  opposes  any  economic 
pressure  against  sovereign  States,  which  usually  only 
aggravates  confrontational 
international 
relations. Bearing that in mind, Russia will vote, at this 
seventieth session of the General Assembly, in favour 
of  the  draft  resolution  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, trade and financial blockade.
trends 
in 
Our  position  of  principle  remains  unchanged. 
We  believe  that  a  swift  lifting  of  the  anti-Cuban 
embargo  is  an  objective  and  long-overdue  necessity. 
We  believe  that  unilateral  economic  pressure  by  the 
United  States  on  Cuba,  for  purely  political  purposes, 
is not justified under current conditions and that it is a 
relic of the past that causes significant damage to the 
Mr. De Aguiar Patriota (Brazil) (spoke in Spanish): 
I, too, wish to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Cuba, Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla. My delegation 
endorses the statements made by the representatives of 
South Africa on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, 
of Ecuador on behalf of Community of Latin American 
and  Caribbean  States,  and  of  Paraguay  on  behalf  of 
15-33534
13/25
A/70/PV.40 
26/10/2015
the  Southern  Common  Market  and  associated  States. 
We also wish to make the following comments in our 
national capacity.
the 
Brazil  heartily  welcomes 
restoration  of 
diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States 
of  America.  We  are  pleased  that  the  countries  chose 
to  engage  in  dialogue  in  order  to  reach  that  historic 
decision  and  overcome  anachronistic  animosities. 
That  decision  can  have  positive  effects  for  the  entire 
American  continent.  Despite  significant  political 
advances, the welfare of the people of Cuba continues 
to  be  affected  by  the  economic,  trade  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  by  the  Government  of  the 
United States.
Brazil reiterates its firm opposition to the embargo 
against Cuba, as well as the extraterritorial application of 
domestic trade laws and the adoption of discriminatory 
trade  practices.  Such  measures  constitute  a  violation 
of the basic principles of international law, notably the 
respect  for  sovereignty  and  the  freedom  of  trade  and 
navigation. They also affect human rights, humanitarian 
law  and  refugee  law,  as  they  are  detrimental  to  the 
populations, especially to women and children, whose 
protection ought to be a priority, especially the poorest 
and most vulnerable segments.
While  we  acknowledge  the  statement  made  by 
the  President  of  the  United  States  in  regard  to  the 
need  to  work  towards  putting  an  end  to  the  embargo 
against  Cuba,  as  well  as  the  measures  that  have  been 
adopted to modify the application of the embargo, we 
are concerned about the upsurge in the extraterritorial 
dimension  of  the  blockade,  along  with  the  increasing 
intimidation imposed in relation to Cuba’s international 
financial transactions.
It is vital that the United States Congress engage, 
as soon as possible, in a discussion on the elimination 
of  the  blockade  against  Cuba.  In  the  meantime,  we 
call  on  President  Obama  to  do  everything  within  his 
executive powers to reduce the impact of the blockade. 
That would not only be in line with the re-establishment 
of diplomatic relations between the two countries, but 
would  also  constitute  a  measure  that  is  necessary  in 
order to ensure that the United States complies with the 
General Assembly’s call urging Governments that have 
not yet complied with resolution 69/5 to take the urgent 
measures  necessary  to  eliminate  discriminatory  trade 
practices and put an end to the economic, commercial 
and financial embargoes adopted unilaterally.
Brazil  welcomes  Cuba’s  progress  in  updating  its 
economic  model.  We  wish  to  continue  on  that  path, 
but we need support from other partners near and far. 
Cooperation  with  Cuba  is  systematically  impeded 
by  the  illegal,  illegitimate  and  inhumane  economic 
embargo.  My  delegation  votes  in  favour  of  taking 
advantage  of  the  space  for  dialogue  and  cooperation 
that has been recently established, so as to bring an end 
to the embargo, which constitutes a flagrant violation 
of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations 
and  international  law.  As  we  celebrate  the  seventieth 
anniversary of the United Nations, putting an end to the 
embargo against Cuba would convey a strong message 
of renewed commitment to the founding principles of 
the Organization in the sense of promoting a culture of 
peace and cooperation in the world.
Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  China 
associates  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative of South Africa on behalf of the Group 
of 77 and China.
In  September,  the  United  Nations  Summit  on  the 
post-2015  development  agenda  unanimously  adopted 
the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1),  which  has  opened  up  new  prospects 
and  opportunities  and  defined  new  goals 
for 
global  development  and  international  development 
cooperation.  We  should  strengthen  cooperation  in 
the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda,  so  as  to 
embark on a development path that is equitable, open, 
comprehensive and innovative with a view to achieving 
common development.
Under these new circumstances, it is necessary to 
immediately put an end to the economic embargo and 
sanctions against Cuba. For 23 consecutive years, the 
General  Assembly  has  adopted,  by  an  overwhelming 
majority  of  votes,  resolutions  on  the  need  to  end  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba. In those 
resolutions, the Assembly urges all countries to abide 
by the Charter of the United Nations and the norms of 
international law and to repeal or invalidate any laws 
or  measures  that  are  of  an  extraterritorial  nature  and 
infringe  upon  the  sovereignty  of  other  States  or  the 
legitimate rights and interests of entities and individuals 
under the jurisdiction of other State and have an adverse 
impact on the freedom of trade and navigation.
It is regrettable that the resolutions have not been 
effectively  implemented  over  the  years  and  that  the 
14/25 
15-33534
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.40
American  economic,  trade  and  financial  embargo 
against Cuba remains in effect. That not only violates 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations and the relevant General Assembly resolutions, 
but  it  has  also  inflicted  enormous  economic  and 
financial  losses  on  Cuba,  impeding  the  efforts  of  the 
Cuban people to eliminate poverty, promote economic 
and  social  development  and  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  It  has  hampered  the  right  of  the 
Cuban  people  to  exist  and  develop  and  has  adversely 
affected 
financial 
interactions between Cuba and other countries.
commercial 
economic, 
and 
China has always advocated respecting a country’s 
right  to  autonomously  choose  its  social  system  and 
approaches  to  development  and  has  opposed  using 
military,  political,  economic  or  other  means  to  apply 
unilateral  sanctions  against  other  countries.  China 
has  consistently  strictly  observed  and  implemented 
relevant  General  Assembly  resolutions.  China  and 
Cuba  have  maintained  normal  economic  and  trade 
relations and have exchanged mutual visits, which has 
led to mutually beneficial and friendly cooperation in 
diverse areas. That has been in line with the wishes of 
the peoples of China and Cuba and has been conducive 
to the economic and social development of Cuba.
Against  the  background  of  multipolarity  in  a 
world  of  economic  globalization,  cultural  diversity 
and  the  democratization  of  international  relations, 
there  has  been  a  general  trend  for  countries  to  carry 
out exchanges and cooperation on the basis of equality. 
Dialogue based on equality and friendly consultations 
offers  the  best  way  to  resolve  disputes.  In  July,  the 
United  States  and  Cuba  decided  to  restore  diplomatic 
relations, taking an important step in the normalization 
of  relations  between  the  two  countries.  We  hope  that 
the  United  States  and  Cuba  will  maintain  dialogue 
and consultation and strengthen the momentum of the 
efforts to improve relations between the two countries.
China has noted that the United States has started 
to  partially  lift  bans  on  tourism,  commerce  and 
telecommunication with Cuba and has the intention to 
push for the ultimate lifting of the trade embargo. We 
hope  that  the  United  States  will  completely  abrogate 
its policy of economic blockade and sanctions against 
Cuba  as  soon  as  possible  and  that  the  two  sides  will 
develop normal inter-State relations in accordance with 
the purposes and principles set out in the Charter of the 
United Nations and the basic principles of international 
relations. That will be in the common interests of the 
United States and Cuba, as well as of the peoples of the 
two countries, and will be conducive to the stability and 
development  of  the  entire  region  of  the  Americas,  as 
well as to the common development of the international 
community.  China  will  again  vote  in  favour  of  draft 
resolution  A/70/L.2,  submitted  by  Cuba  under  this 
agenda item.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke in Spanish): I would like to begin my statement 
by  welcoming  the  presence  here  today  of  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba,  and  his  delegation.  At  the  same  time,  I  would 
like to welcome the presence of the Bolivian Minister 
of  Mining  and  Metallurgy,  Mr.  Félix  César  Navarro 
Miranda.
The Plurinational State of Bolivia associates itself 
with  the  statements  delivered  on  behalf  of  the  Group 
of  77  and  China,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
and the Southern Common Market.
Today,  the  Agence  France-Presse  news  agency 
reported  the  dramatic  case  of  Noemi  Bernardez, 
a  7-year-old  cancer  patient  who  needs  the  drug 
temozolomide for her chemotherapy treatments. Noemi, 
who lives in the Cuban province of Cienfuegos, has a 
70 per cent chance of surviving her disease if she can 
get  that  drug,  but  only  20  per  cent  if  she  cannot.  As 
the report of the Secretary-General (A/70/120) clearly 
points out, because of the unilateral application of the 
criminal  blockade  against  Cuba,  Noemi’s  chances  of 
survival are reduced.
The  Secretary-General’s  report  once  again  makes 
plain  the  global  rejection  of  the  United  States  of 
America’s  arbitrary  and  unilateral  imposition  of  an 
economic, commercial and financial blockade against 
the  Cuban  people  —  and  against  humankind.  The 
embargo  affects  international  cooperation,  health  and 
nutrition,  education  and  culture,  foreign  trade  and 
foreign  investment  in  Cuba.  It  also  has  financial  and 
banking  repercussions  and  restricts  the  potential  for 
the  development  of  tourism,  transport,  civil  aviation 
and  other  areas  of  the  Cuban  economy.  The  embargo 
is  an  example  of  the  unilateralism  with  which  the 
United  States  acts  in  the  world.  Notwithstanding  the 
blockade, however, Cuba serves as an example of social 
development, cooperation and solidarity. Bolivia joins 
the  concert  of  nations  in  again  repudiating,  in  the 
strongest terms possible, the criminal blockade, which 
15-33534
15/25
A/70/PV.40 
26/10/2015
has become one of the deepest open wounds affecting 
the spirit of the whole human family.
The  United  States  is  unilaterally  imposing  an 
unjust blockade, an illegitimate blockade, an immoral 
blockade,  an  illegal  blockade.  The  blockade  violates 
the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
which all of us support, not only in word but in spirit. 
The  blockade  violates  the  principle  of  the  sovereign 
equality  of  States,  the  principle  of  non-intervention 
in  the  internal  affairs  of  States,  and  the  principles  of 
independence, multilateralism, respect for international 
law  and  self-determination.  It  violates  every  human 
right,  and  in  particular  economic,  social  and  cultural 
rights.
We  are  all  victims  of  that  blockade  owing  to  its 
extraterritorial  character.  It  is  not  only  Cuba  but  the 
international community that is attacked unilaterally in 
violation of international law by the embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  of  America.  Today  presents  us 
with  an  opportunity  not  only  to  vigorously  condemn 
this  violation  of  international  law,  this  genocidal 
blockade, but also to honour and express thanks for the 
solidarity of Cuba. Bolivia continues to be a beneficiary 
of that absolutely unconditional solidarity, despite the 
conditions imposed by the blockade on Cuba. We now 
also  have  an  opportunity  to  honour  the  dignity  and 
endurance of the valiant Cuban people.
I would like to conclude my statement by repeating 
the words that Che Guevara uttered a few decades ago, 
recalling a phrase from José Martí: “When one man is 
struck, every true man should feel the blow on his own 
face”.  In  that  light,  Cuba,  as  a  paragon  of  solidarity, 
gives the world a choice today. We must bear in mind 
that  girl  Noemi.  If  homeland  is  synonymous  with 
humankind  and  if  the  embargo  is  synonymous  with 
death, the choice has become homeland or death.
We shall overcome.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodriguez Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, to introduce draft 
resolution A/70/L.2.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
Last  17  December,  United  States  President  Barack 
Obama  acknowledged  that  the  economic,  commercial 
and financial embargo imposed on Cuba had failed, that 
it was obsolete and had not met the goals envisaged and 
had harmed the Cuban people and isolated the United 
States  Government.  Since  then,  President  Obama  has 
reiterated that the blockade must be lifted. He has asked 
the  American  Congress  to  proceed  in  that  direction 
instead of acting against the will of American citizens, 
who  clearly  support  its  repeal.  He  has  committed  to 
engaging in the debate for that purpose and to use his 
executive powers to modify its implementation.
During  the  Summit  on  sustainable  development 
leading  to  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  during 
the recent general debate, more than 60 Heads of State 
or Government and delegations expressed appreciation 
and  congratulations  on  the  announcement  of  the  new 
course in the relations between the United States and 
Cuba, including the restoration of diplomatic relations 
and embassies, and many called for the embargo to be 
completely  abolished.  The  interest  and  hopes  aroused 
by  those  discussions  and  the  subsequent  vote,  which 
will  take  place  under  new  circumstances,  is  therefore 
understandable.
Given  the  almost  unanimous  demand  on  the 
part  of  the  international  community,  symbolized  by 
the  favourable  vote  of  188  Member  States  last  year 
(resolution  69/5),  the  participation  of  Cuba  in  the 
Summit  of  the  Americas  in  Panama  this  year  and 
the  call  by  a  clear  majority  of  American  society  and 
the  Cuban  diaspora  settled  here,  the  United  States 
Government has announced a new policy towards our 
country. But the measures adopted by the United States 
Administration, which entered into force on 16 January 
and  were  later  expanded  on  18  September,  although 
positive,  only  modified  in  very  limited  way  certain 
elements related to the implementation of the embargo. 
Many  of  them  cannot  be  implemented  unless  others 
are  adopted  that  would  finally  allow  Cuba  to  freely 
export  and  import  products  and  services  to  and  from 
the United States of America, to use American dollars 
in  its  international  financial  transactions  and  operate 
accounts  in  that  currency  in  third  countries’  banks, 
and to have access to credit and financing from private 
entities and international financial institutions.
The  problem  is  not  that  the  Cuban  authorities 
hamper  the  implementation  of  those  measures  and 
that  the  Cuban  system  would  need  to  be  modified  in 
order  to  facilitate  the  process,  as  some  United  States 
officials  have  asserted.  The  problem  is  the  relentless 
and systematic existence of the embargo. We must not 
confuse reality with the wishes and expressions of good 
will. In such circumstances as we are now facing, one 
can only judge based on the facts. And the facts show, in 
16/25 
15-33534
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.40
a crystal-clear manner, that the economic, commercial 
and  financial  embargo  imposed  against  Cuba  is  still 
being fully and completely implemented.
Ten  months  after  the  announcements  made  on 
17 December 2014, no tangible, substantial modification 
has  been  introduced  in  the  implementation  of  the 
embargo. Cuba’s removal from the spurious list of State 
sponsors of international terrorism was the inevitable 
correction of an absurdity, but that has hardly had any 
impact on the implementation of the embargo, which is 
based on a far more comprehensive system of previously 
established laws and sanctions.
Just a week ago, a $1.116 billion fine was imposed 
on a French bank, Crédit Agricole, which must be added 
to the $1.71 billion fine imposed on the German bank 
Commerzbank last March for carrying out transactions 
with Cuba and other States. In recent weeks, the secure 
messaging system SWIFT cancelled a service contract 
that covered the first payment by the American company 
Sprint to initiate direct phone calls, and several other 
bank  transfers  to  Cuba  for  the  operation  of  charter 
flights were withheld.
The  meagre  Cuban  food  purchases  in  the  United 
States of America, which were among the few exceptions 
to the embargo approved in 2000 by the United States 
Congress, have declined significantly in the past year, 
because they are subject to discriminatory and onerous 
conditions.  Each  purchase  must  be  authorized  by  a 
license, and the granting of credits is prohibited. Cuba 
is forced to pay cash and in advance through banking 
entities of third countries and is prohibited from using 
its own vessels to transport those products.
Something  similar  has  been  happening  with  the 
imports of medicines and medical equipment that our 
country needs, and since 1992 United States legislation 
has imposed conditions on them as well. Cuba is required 
to  report  on  the  final  recipient  of  the  medication  it 
purchases. It is not allowed to make payments directly, 
but only through third parties and in a currency other 
than the United States dollar, which obviously entails 
additional difficulties, delays and costs.
Numerous  other  examples  could  be  mentioned. 
The  example  of  the  case  of  the  Elekta  company, 
which  confirmed  on  2  September  that  it  will  not  be 
able to supply the National Institute of Oncology and 
Radiobiology nor any other hospitals in Cuba with the 
radioactive  isotope  iridium-192,  which  ensures  the 
normal operation of the brachytherapy equipment that 
is indispensable for higher quality treatments and more 
accurate cancer therapy. That is because its supplier, the 
United States company Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals, 
refused  to  sell  that  isotope  to  Cuba.  The  American 
company, Small Bone Innovation, Inc., has refused to 
supply  prosthetic  wrists  and  hand  joints  to  the  Frank 
País Orthopedic Hospital for patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis. Last June, the United States company Sigma-
Aldrich  refused  to  supply  the  company  Quimimpex 
with  the  products,  services  and  technical  information 
that are indispensable to the chemical industry; and the 
North American company Columbiana Boiler Company 
informed Quimpex that it was not allowed to export the 
cylinders needed to transport chlorine destined for the 
treatment of drinking water.
The embargo is a flagrant, massive and systematic 
violation  of  the  human  rights  of  all  Cubans.  It 
contravenes  international  law  and  has  been  described 
as  an  act  of  genocide  under  the  Convention  on  the 
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide 
of  1948.  It  is  the  main  obstacle  to  the  economic  and 
social development of our people. The human damage 
it has caused is inestimable. Seventy-seven per cent of 
Cubans  have  been  suffering  from  the  embargo  since 
the day they were born. The shortages and deprivation 
that  it  causes  to  all  Cuban  families  are  incalculable. 
According to rigorous and conservative estimates, the 
economic  damage  it  has  caused  after  more  than  half 
a  century  amount  to  $33,755,000,000,  based  on  the 
price of gold. At current prices, that amounts to more 
than $121,192,000,000, which is a figure of enormous 
magnitude for a small economy like ours.
I  hope  the  representative  of  the  United  States  of 
America  will  not  come  here  now  to  tell  us  that  draft 
resolution A/70/L.2 does not accurately reflect the spirit 
of dialogue or the generous attitude of his Government; 
or repeat the hackneyed line that the United States of 
America is the social benefactor of the Cuban people, 
which  wishes  only  to  control  its  own  destiny;  or 
inflate the figure of $900,000 in donations that Cuban 
civil  society  received  in  2015,  which  the  embargo 
hampered  and  our  people  appreciated;  or  refer  to  the 
family  remittances,  which  are  the  result  of  difficult 
savings  on  the  part  of  Cubans  living  here,  as  if  they 
were Government funds; or consider as a commercial 
exchange the export licenses that have been granted but 
have not actually led to any concrete exports.
While it is up to the United States Congress to adopt 
a decision ending the embargo, the President has broad 
15-33534
17/25
A/70/PV.40 
26/10/2015
executive powers to substantially modify the practical 
application  of  the  embargo  and  its  humanitarian  and 
economic  impact.  We  share  the  hope  that  the  United 
States  Congress  will  change  an  ineffective,  cruel  and 
unjust policy, anchored in the past, and make decisions 
based on the values   and feelings of its citizens.
steering commission, the expansion of areas of dialogue 
and  cooperation,  particularly  in  the  fields  of  aviation 
and  aviation  security,  combating  drug  trafficking, 
illegal migration and human trafficking, cooperation in 
law enforcement, environmental protection and health, 
among others.
Historically, the United States has tried to impose 
its  domination  and  hegemony  over  our  country  and, 
since  1959,  to  change  the  political,  economic  and 
social  system  that  our  people  freely  chose  in  the  full 
exercise  of  their  self-determination.  Several  voices 
for the United States Government have stated that the 
announced policy concerning Cuba means a change in 
methods, rather than in objectives. If that is the case, 
the process of normalizing relations between the United 
States and Cuba will face serious obstacles. The lifting 
of  the  blockade  will  be  the  critical  element  that  will 
give  meaning  to  the  progress  achieved  over  the  past 
several months in relations between the two countries 
and set the pace on the road to normalization.
As President Barack Obama acknowledged, lifting 
the blockade serves the national interests of the United 
States and reflects the will of that country’s citizens. It 
would be in no way acceptable or productive to require 
Cuba  to  make  internal  changes  as  a  precondition  for 
lifting  or  lightening  the  embargo.  Cuba  is  willing 
to  accept  the  opportunities  and  face  the  challenges 
of  a  new  era  in  relations  between  both  countries, 
but  it  will  never  negotiate  its  socialist  system  or  its 
internal  affairs.  Nor  will  it  allow  any  blemish  on 
its  independence,  which  was  won  at  the  price  of  the 
blood of its finest sons and daughters and through the 
enormous sacrifices of many generations, dating back 
to our first wars of independence in 1868. As President 
Raúl  Castro  Ruz  reiterated,  both  Governments  must 
find  a  way  to  coexist  in  a  civilized  manner,  despite 
their  profound  differences,  and,  wherever  possible, 
go  forward  together,  for  the  benefit  of  the  peoples  of 
the  United  States  and  Cuba,  through  dialogue  and 
cooperation  based  on  mutual  respect  and  sovereign 
equality. There is no enmity between the peoples of the 
United States and Cuba. The Cuban people expressed 
their  solidarity  with  the  American  people  during  the 
terrible terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 and the 
devastating impact of Hurricane Katrina. We appreciate 
and recognize the progress that has been recently made 
and  reflected  in  the  reopening  of  the  embassies,  the 
visits  by  the  Secretary  of  State  and  the  Secretary  of 
Commerce  to  Cuba  and  the  exchange  of  delegations. 
That is in addition to the implementation of a bilateral 
We  are  sincerely  interested  in  developing  fruitful 
relations, including offering quality tourism to United 
States  citizens,  who  enjoy  the  freedom  to  travel  to 
Cuba,  expanding  cultural,  sporting,  scientific  and 
academic  exchanges  and  multifaceted  cooperation  in 
areas of common interest, trade and investment. Based 
on the premise of our significant differences and in the 
spirit  of  back-and-forth  discussion,  we  have  initiated 
a  bilateral  dialogue  on  human  rights.  To  that  end,  we 
have been guided by the principles that are contained in 
the Proclamation of Latin America and the Caribbean 
as a Zone of Peace, which was signed in January 2014 
in  Havana  by  the  Heads  of  State  and  Government  of 
the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States,  and  by  the  principles  and  purposes  enshrined 
in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  That  could  also 
be a modest contribution to the quest for an alternative 
way for all of us as human beings and nations to relate 
to  one  another  in  an  era  marked  by  global  crisis,  the 
inevitable impact of climate change, non-conventional 
wars that have unleashed ongoing atrocious conflicts, 
new forms of terrorism, the existence of huge nuclear 
arsenals, extraordinary spending on nuclear armaments 
and the risk of pandemics.
Fifteen  years  ago  in  this  very  Hall,  the  history-
making  leader  of  the  Revolution  Fidel  Castro  Ruz 
stated,
“Humanity  should  be  aware  of  what  we  have 
been so far and what we cannot continue to be. Our 
species  has  now  enough  accumulated  knowledge, 
ethical  values  and  scientific  resources  to  move 
towards  a  new  historical  era  of  true  justice  and 
humanism;
“Nothing in the existing economic and political 
order  serves  the  interests  of  humankind.  Thus 
this order is unsustainable and must be changed.” 
(A/55/PV.4, p. 20)
This  year,  23  years  after  the  adoption  of  the  first 
of the resolutions emphasizing the necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America  (resolution 
47/19),  we  have  achieved  remarkable  progress.  This 
18/25 
15-33534
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.40
crowning achievement is due to the tireless resistance, 
the selfless efforts and firm convictions of our people 
and  the  leadership  of  the  history-making  generation 
of  the  Revolution,  headed  by  Commander-in-Chief 
Fidel  Castro  Ruz  and  President  Raúl  Castro  Ruz.  We 
are  deeply  grateful  to  all  of  the  Governments  and 
their  peoples,  parliaments,  political  forces,  social 
movements, 
representatives  of  civil  society  and 
international and regional organizations that, year after 
year, especially in the General Assembly, have upheld, 
with  their  voices  and  their  votes,  the  fairness  and 
urgency  of  lifting  the  embargo.  We  have  made  it  this 
far thanks to the ever-growing support of the American 
people  aimed  at  achieving  that  laudable  goal,  and  we 
express our gratitude to them. We know that the road 
that lies ahead of us is long and difficult. As long as the 
blockade continues, we will continue to put forward a 
similar draft resolution in the General Assembly. The 
Cuban people will never renounce their sovereignty or 
the path they have freely chosen to building a more just, 
efficient,  prosperous  and  sustainable  socialism,  nor 
will they abandon their quest for a more equitable and 
democratic international order.
We have sponsored draft resolution A/70/L.2, which 
recognizes  the  reality  of  the  rigorous  and  oppressive 
implementation  of  the  embargo  against  Cuba  and, 
in  new  preambular  paragraphs,  also  recognizes  and 
commends the progress achieved during the past year.
On  behalf  of  the  heroic,  selfless  and  supportive 
Cuban people, I ask the Assembly to vote in favour of 
draft resolution A/70/L.2, entitled “Necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba”.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We shall 
now proceed to consider draft resolution A/70/L.2.
Before giving the floor to speakers in explanation 
of  vote  before  the  voting,  may  I  remind  delegations 
that explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Godard  (United  States  of  America):  Last 
year,  on  17  December,  President  Obama  announced  a 
new  direction  in  United  States  policy  towards  Cuba. 
At  the  same  time,  President  Castro  Ruz  spoke  to  the 
Cuban people about beginning a new relationship with 
the  United  States.  Since  then,  the  United  States  has 
taken  a  range  of  historic  measures  designed  to  begin 
normalizing  United  States-Cuban  bilateral  relations, 
including by adjusting United States regulations related 
to Cuba. Presidents Obama and Castro have met twice 
since then. Although normalization will be a long and 
complex road, we have made considerable progress.
We regret, therefore, that the Government of Cuba 
has chosen to proceed with its annual draft resolution 
(A/70/L.2).  The  text  falls  short  of  reflecting  the 
significant  steps  that  have  been  taken  and  the  spirit 
of  engagement  President  Obama  has  championed.  As 
a  result,  the  United  States  cannot  support  it.  If  Cuba 
thinks  this  exercise  will  help  move  things  forward  in 
the  direction  both  Governments  have  indicated  they 
wish, it is mistaken.
On 20 July, the United States and Cuba established 
diplomatic  relations  and  re-opened  embassies  in  one 
another’s capital cities. Secretary of State Kerry travelled 
to Havana on 14 August for the ceremonial flag-raising 
at  the  United  States  Embassy,  marking  the  first  time 
a  United  States  Secretary  of  State  had  been  to  Cuba 
since 1945. Secretary Kerry welcomed the occasion as 
a day for pushing aside old barriers and exploring new 
possibilities. Indeed, he praised both President Obama 
and  President  Castro  for  “the  courageous  decision  to 
stop being the prisoners of history and to focus on the 
opportunities of today and tomorrow”.
Since  that  day,  the  United  States  has  met  with 
Cuban Government officials in Havana to set a broad 
agenda  for  bilateral  cooperation.  We  have  agreed  to 
hold  dialogues  in  law  enforcement,  counter-narcotics 
and  human  rights.  We  have  worked  with  Cuban 
health-care  professionals  to  deliver  improved  care  to 
the  poorest  populations  in  our  hemisphere.  We  have 
discussed  ways  to  address  the  environmental  and 
climate change challenges we face in the years ahead. 
By  the  end  of  the  year,  we  hope  to  announce  several 
concrete  accomplishments  that  will  benefit  both  our 
peoples.
As we all know, President Obama has also called on 
Congress to lift the embargo as soon as possible and has 
taken executive action to adjust regulations to facilitate 
many  transactions  involving  Cuba.  President  Obama 
has  argued  that  removing  the  embargo  will  increase 
economic opportunities for the Cuban people through 
increased trade and commerce and improve technology 
and information flow to the island, a goal we all share.
We do not expect Cuba or the United States to forget 
the past overnight. We realize that fully normalizing our 
bilateral  relationship  will  require  years  of  persistence 
and  dedication  on  both  sides.  We  find  it  unfortunate 
15-33534
19/25
A/70/PV.40 
26/10/2015
that  despite  our  demonstrated  bilateral  progress,  the 
Cuban  Government  has  chosen  to  introduce  a  draft 
resolution that is nearly identical to those presented in 
years past. Nevertheless, the United States will not be 
bound by a history of mistrust. We remain committed to 
the hard work of pursuing genuine bilateral cooperation 
with Cuba for the benefit of both countries and for the 
hemisphere.
The  United  States  also  remains  committed  to 
promoting  and  encouraging  respect  for  human  rights 
and fundamental freedoms for all in Cuba, as enshrined 
in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will 
continue to advocate for universal rights on the island 
and  to  build  and  strengthen  connections  between  the 
Cuban and the American people.
Mrs.  Rubiales  de  Chamorro  (Nicaragua)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  Nicaragua  would  like  to  explain  why  it 
will vote in favour of the people and the Government of 
Cuba, together with the entire international community.
We  wish  to  welcome  our  brother  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, and 
his  delegation.  He  has  provided  us  with  extensive 
information  about  the  impacts  today  of  the  criminal 
economic,  financial  and  commercial  embargo  against 
his people and Government.
We  reaffirm  our  unconditional  support  for  and 
solidarity  with  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
Cuba  for  their  heroic  gesture,  the  Cuban  Revolution, 
which showed us the first steps towards dignity and the 
restitution of rights to the peoples of Latin America and 
the  Caribbean.  More  than  five  decades  of  resistance, 
full  of  bravery  and  sacrifice  have  elapsed  since  the 
infamous  day  when  a  disgraceful  imperialistic  law 
authorized the President of the United States to establish 
an economic, commercial and financial embargo against 
Cuba,  with  the  aim  of  provoking  disillusionment  and 
discouragement;  creating  economic  dissatisfaction 
and hardship; denying access to supplies; and causing 
hunger, desperation, violence and the overthrow of the 
legitimate Government of Cuba.
Yet  Cuba  stands  before  us.  Its  people  and  its 
Government,  our  brothers  in  solidarity,  represent  the 
dignity  and  sovereignty  of  our  peoples.  They  were 
always  the  first  to  respond  to  our  needs  in  the  face 
of disasters and emergencies. They taught us to read, 
trained doctors and technicians, cured our diseases and 
helped  us  to  create  conditions  for  our  well-being  and 
our happiness on Mother Earth.
The embargo, which has been increasing in terms of 
its measures and scope, is in fact a policy of genocide. It 
has had a negative impact on the economic, social and 
cultural rights of the people of Cuba and amounts to a 
massive, flagrant and systematic violation of the human 
rights of an entire people.
Our President, Commander Daniel Ortega Saavedra, 
in referring to the embargo, has affirmed that the time 
has  come  to  end  it.  The  situation  has  changed.  Even 
in the United States, the majority of the population is 
against the embargo. Conditions have been established 
to enable President Barack Obama to decide to take this 
step even if it goes against the system. We also recall 
that  the  policy  of  embargo  and  sanctions  has  not  led 
anywhere. The best proof of that is that, after 56 years, 
President Obama recognized that the embargo against 
Cuba had been a failure.
Today we welcome the fact that President Obama 
has finally decided to take the first steps to begin the 
process  of  normalization  and  the  re-establishment  of 
relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States,  which 
should be done based on the legitimate interests of each 
party, starting with the legitimate interests of the Cuban 
people  and  of  the  international  community,  to  put  an 
immediate end to the blockade. We firmly believe that 
global solidarity with Cuba and its people will continue 
to be resolute until this criminal embargo ends.
The  Group  of  77  and  China,  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement, 
the  Community  of  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  States,  the  Caribbean  Community, 
the  Southern  Common  Market,  the  Association  of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations,  the  African  Union,  the 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  and  others  have 
once again reiterated their rejection and condemnation 
of  the  policy  of  the  Government  of  the  United  States 
and shown their complete solidarity with Cuba and its 
demand to put an immediate end to the blockade.
Despite  the  re-establishment  of  relations,  the 
United  States  has  intensified  its  inhumane  embargo 
and  its  measures  with  extraterritorial  dimensions, 
heavily  impacting  exports  and  imports.  The  embargo 
has  resulted  in  a  lack  of  access  to  foreign  loans  and 
international markets and has impacted the health and 
education systems and the right to food. In short, it has 
adversely affected all aspects of Cuban life.
Nicaragua  condemns  the  criminal  blockade  and 
all  the  measures  and  extraterritorial  ramifications. 
Nicaragua rejects any coercive and unilateral economic 
20/25 
15-33534
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.40
measures  to  attempt  to  break  the  will  and  spirit  of 
peoples  and  Governments.  It  is  unacceptable  to  use 
those policies to compel an independent population to 
change its regime. The embargo continues to be the main 
obstacle to sustainable development and economic and 
social  programmes  in  the  fraternal  nation  of  Cuba.  It 
is totally inconsistent with the recently approved 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1).
This  year  we  have  seen  courageous  decisions 
that, in the short term, have led to changing situations 
that have been maintained for more than five decades 
in  relation  to  Cuba.  We  maintained  the  hope  that,  in 
the  General  Assembly,  we  can  continue  to  take  bold 
decisions and to vote unanimously in favour of lifting 
the embargo. We have always listened very carefully to 
the speaker who preceded me, and we had hoped to hear 
something different this time. Regrettably, once again 
we  heard  the  same  rhetoric  as  in  previous  years,  the 
same arrogance attempting to justify the unjustifiable, 
arguing for the continuation of a situation against the 
fraternal  people  of  Cuba,  which  is  the  result  of  the 
implementation of an obsolete and anachronistic policy 
that they themselves have referred to as a failure. The 
entire world rejects it.
No,  Cuba  was  not  mistaken  in  presenting  draft 
resolution A/70/L.2; the whole world supports it.
To  conclude,  while  reiterating  my  delegation’s 
vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution  introduced  by 
Cuba, which we are about to vote on, we wish to recall 
the  words  of  the  beloved  former  President  of  Chile, 
Mr.  Salvador  Allende,  who  was  murdered  by  dark 
forces,  as  we  all  are  aware.  Some  day,  America  will 
speak  in  the  voice  of  the  continent,  in  a  united  voice 
of the peoples, a voice that will be respected and heard 
because it is the voice of the people who are the masters 
of their own destiny.
Today  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  in 
speaking  for  the  continent,  demands  that  the  United 
States Government once and for all rectify its policies 
against our continent. It should immediately put an end 
to the criminal embargo against Cuba. It should close 
the prisons in Guantánamo and return Guantánamo to 
its  legitimate  owner.  It  should  recognize  and  finally 
accept the will of our peoples to be the masters of our 
own fates and, abandoning its imperialist designs and 
policies,  once  and  for  all  establish  friendly  relations, 
cooperation  and  respect  on  equal  terms  for  all  the 
peoples and the Governments in our region.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard the last speaker in explanation of vote before the 
voting.
The  General  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision 
on  draft  resolution  A/70/L.2,  entitled  “The  necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba”.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada, 
Central  African  Republic,  Chad,  Chile,  China, 
Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic 
Republic  of 
the  Congo,  Denmark,  Djibouti, 
Dominica,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Estonia, 
Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada, 
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, 
Japan,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia, 
Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta,  Marshall  Islands,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal,  Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Palau,  Panama,  Papua  New 
Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao 
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, 
15-33534
21/25
A/70/PV.40 
26/10/2015
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands,  Somalia,  South 
Africa,  South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan, 
Suriname,  Swaziland,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-
Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Israel, United States of America
Draft resolution A/70/L.2 was adopted by 191 votes 
to 2 (resolution 70/5).
The Acting President  (spoke in Spanish):  Before 
giving the floor to speakers in explanation of vote after 
the voting, may I remind delegations that explanations 
of vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Ms. Lucas (Luxembourg) (spoke in French): I have 
the honour to speak on behalf of the European Union 
(EU) and its member States. The candidate countries the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Serbia  and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization 
and Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia 
and Herzegovina; and Iceland, a European Free Trade 
Association  country  and  member  of  the  European 
Economic Area, align themselves with this statement.
The 
re-establishment  of  diplomatic 
relations 
between Cuba and the United States of America and the 
calls of President Obama on Congress to start working 
towards the removal of the embargo have created a new 
situation  for  all  parties  concerned.  The  EU  warmly 
welcomes those initiatives and encourages their further 
implementation  through  appropriate  steps  by  both 
parties.
In  the  meantime,  however,  the  main  restrictive 
measures are still in place. They are even more of an 
anachronism given the new circumstances. The United 
States  trade  policy  towards  Cuba  is  fundamentally 
a  bilateral  issue.  However,  beyond  the  damaging 
impact  of  the  embargo  on  Cuban  citizens,  the  direct 
and  indirect  effects  of  extraterritorial  legislation  and 
unilateral  administrative  and  judicial  measures  also 
undermine EU economic interests.
American legislation such as the Cuban Democracy 
Act  of  1992  and  the  Helms-Burton  Act  of  1996 
extended  the  effects  of  the  embargo  of  the  United 
States of America to third-party countries. Within the 
framework  of  its  common  commercial  policies,  the 
European Union has firmly and continuously opposed 
such extraterritorial measures. While we acknowledge 
the  decisions  of  the  United  States  Government  to  lift 
restrictions on remittances and family travel to Cuba, 
thereby  allowing  the  provision  of  certain  financial, 
telecommunication  and  Internet  services,  and 
to 
remove restrictions on the export of tools and building 
materials  to  support  the  Cuban  people,  we  cannot 
accept that unilaterally imposed measures impede our 
economic  and  trade  relations  with  Cuba.  To  address 
that  problem,  in  November  1996,  the  EU  Council  of 
Ministers  adopted  a  regulation  and  a  joint  action  to 
protect the interests of natural or legal persons resident 
in Europe against the consequences of those laws.
At the summit between the European Union and the 
United States of America held in London in May 1998, 
an  agreement  was  reached  on  a  set  of  measures  that 
aimed to mitigate the problems caused by extraterritorial 
legislation. It covered waivers to Titles III and IV of the 
Helms-Burton Act, a commitment by the United States 
Government to oppose future extraterritorial legislation 
of that kind and an understanding on the disciplines for 
strengthening investment protection. It is vital that the 
United States of America fully observe and implement 
that agreement.
While  EU-Cuba  political  relations  are  strictly 
guided  by  the  1996  common  position,  both  parties 
are  engaged  in  a  negotiating  process  to  define  a  new 
and  ambitious  framework.  Since  2014,  the  European 
Union and Cuba have begun negotiating an agreement 
on  political  dialogue  and  cooperation  to  strengthen 
relations  and  create  an  enabling  framework  for  more 
effective dialogue, improved cooperation and expanded 
economic  relations.  Human  rights  are  at  the  core  of 
EU  external  relations,  including  with  Cuba.  A  first 
high-level  discussion  took  place  in  June  2015.  The 
EU  remains  determined  to  pursue  a  comprehensive 
dialogue with the Cuban authorities and all sectors of 
Cuban society. We reiterate the right of Cuban citizens 
to make independent decisions about their future.
22/25 
15-33534
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.40
We also reiterate our call on the Cuban Government 
to  grant  its  citizens  full,  internationally  recognized 
civil,  political  and  economic  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms,  including  the  freedoms  of  assembly  and 
expression and free access to information. We call on it 
to ratify the International Covenant on Civil and Political 
Rights  and  the  International  Covenant  on  Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights. In addition, following the 
visit of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the 
right  to  food,  we  encourage  the  Cuban  Government 
to  invite  other  special  rapporteurs  to  visit  Cuba.  We 
welcome the continued broad application of the Cuban 
citizens’  freedom  to  travel,  as  well  as  the  substantial 
amnesty granted to prisoners on humanitarian grounds 
on  the  occasion  of  the  visit  of  Pope  Francis.  We  note 
with  concern  the  continued  high  frequency  of  short-
term  arrests  and  appeal  for  all  freedoms  to  be  fully 
respected and protected.
The  existing  restrictions  on  the  rights  to  the 
freedoms of expression and assembly stand in contrast 
to  Cuban  achievements  in  health  care  and  education. 
Similarly, the slow progress of economic modernization 
greatly  hinders  the  economic  development  of  Cuba. 
In  that  context,  we  recall  the  adoption  by  the  Cuban 
Parliament in August 2011 of a set of economic and social 
reforms, and we hope that they will be expanded and 
implemented in a way that will address the key concerns 
of  the  Cuban  population.  The  economic,  commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America contributes to the economic problems in Cuba, 
negatively affecting the living standards of the Cuban 
people, while having consequences in the humanitarian 
field as well.
The  lifting  of  the  United  States  embargo  could 
facilitate  an  opening  of  the  Cuban  economy  for  the 
benefit of the Cuban people. Together, we again express 
our rejection of all unilateral measures directed against 
Cuba,  which  negatively  affect  the  interests  of  third 
parties and therefore violate commonly accepted rules 
of international trade.
We  urge  the  Cuban  authorities  to  bring  about 
real  improvements  in  all  the  areas  that  we  have  just 
mentioned.  Through  its  cooperation  and  the  future 
framework agreement, the EU is ready to support Cuba 
on its path of reform and modernization. Considerable 
progress  has  been  achieved  in  a  constructive  spirit, 
including  on  human  rights,  governance  and  civil 
society. We are encouraged by the knowledge that no 
subject will be off limits during those processes. Given 
that context, the member States of the European Union 
voted unanimously in favour of resolution 70/5.
Mr. Zuain (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): At the 
outset, I would like to welcome Mr. Bruno Rodríguez 
Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  and 
congratulate him on the historic vote that we have just 
witnessed.
Argentina  fully  supports  the  statements  delivered 
by  the  representative  of  South  Africa,  on  behalf  of 
the  Group  of  77  and  China;  by  the  representative  of 
Ecuador, on behalf of the Community of Latin American 
and  Caribbean  States;  and  by  the  representative  of 
Paraguay, on behalf of the Southern Common Market. 
I  would  like  to  make  several  additional  comments  on 
behalf of the people and the Government of Argentina.
Year after year we meet to adopt by an overwhelming 
majority a draft resolution on the necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America  against 
Cuba.  Despite  its  repetitive  nature,  the  appeal  retains 
its validity. In fact, its ethical, political and historical 
foundations have been strengthened by the passage of 
time, the persistence of the grievance and the increase 
in international support. During the past 20 years, we 
have  seen  that  increase  transform  this  cause  into  a 
universal claim. Besides being global in nature, this is 
a Latin American and Caribbean cause that unites the 
countries of our entire region in a strong and consistent 
position of solidarity.
The  Argentine  Government  wishes  to  express 
how  pleased  and  optimistic  it  is  about  the  restoration 
of  diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States.  It  congratulates  both  Governments  on  their 
decision  to  take  the  path  of  dialogue  to  resolve  all 
outstanding issues on the basis of equality and mutual 
respect.  However,  we  note  with  concern  that,  despite 
some progress, the embargo against the Cuban people 
continues  to  stifle  them  in  a  disgraceful  manner.  We 
therefore  hope  that,  first  and  foremost,  the  United 
States  complies  with  the  commitments  outlined  and 
that the rapprochement and dialogue between the two 
countries can quickly and effectively lead to the lifting 
of the unjust and illegal embargo suffered by the Cuban 
people and Cuban nationals living abroad for more than 
half a century.
In spite of the new context, the embargo continues 
to exist and to impede the economic, financial, social 
and cultural development of the Cuban people. In terms 
15-33534
23/25
A/70/PV.40 
26/10/2015
of  trade,  just  to  give  one  example,  Cuba  is  prevented 
from  freely  exporting  and  importing  its  products  and 
services to or from the United States, as the Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba  clearly  explained  a  few 
minutes ago. Notwithstanding the measures announced 
by President Obama, which represent progress towards 
changing  the  implementation  of  some  aspects  of  the 
embargo,  the  laws  and  regulations  that  support  this 
policy remain in force and are rigorously implemented 
by  the  agencies  of  the  United  States  Government, 
constituting a financial, economic, social and cultural 
straitjacket to which Cuba continues to be subjected.
This  is  an  unjust  embargo  because  it  punishes  an 
entire  population,  causes  serious  economic  damage 
and  impedes  development.  It  should  not  be  forgotten 
that the cost to the Cuban economy of this inhumane 
action  has  exceeded  $120  billion.  It  is  a  massive  and 
systematic violation of the most fundamental of human 
rights.
We wish to recall that the embargo was motivated 
by the refusal of a country to accept that a sovereign 
people  could  elect  its  own  political  system,  its  own 
way  to  organize  and  develop  itself  and,  in  a  nutshell, 
to  choose  its  own  fate.  It  was  an  absurd  and  morally 
unsustainable decision on the part of the United States 
and has even failed in its purpose, which was to crush 
the Cuban people.
Argentina  strongly  opposes  the  use  of  unilateral 
coercive measures, the extraterritorial implementation 
of  national  laws  and  the  adoption  of  discriminatory 
trade  practices.  We  therefore  join  and  support  the 
Cuban call for the lifting of the embargo and the laws 
and  regulations  that  underpin  that  policy,  which  are 
rigorously implemented by the United States.
to 
full 
For 
these 
reiterates 
implementation  of 
reasons,  Argentina 
the 
its 
commitment 
the 
recommendations  of  the  General  Assembly  in  its 
resolution  69/5,  and  again  urges  the  international 
community  to  redouble  its  efforts  aimed  at  the 
fulfilment  of  all  the  objectives  that  are  set  out  in  the 
resolutions of the General Assembly designed to ensure 
respect for the sovereign rights of the Cuban people to 
aspire to their prosperity and sustainable development.
Consequently,  Argentina  once  again  rejects  the 
embargo  policy  against  Cuba  imposed  by  the  United 
States, a practice that has been in effect for more than 
half  a  century,  which  in  addition  to  being  morally 
unjustifiable  and  to  having  a  serious  humanitarian 
impact is contrary to the spirit of multilateralism. We 
therefore  hope  that  the  process  of  normalization  of 
relations  that  has  begun  between  the  two  countries 
leads to an early end being put to the embargo.
My  country  takes  this  opportunity  to  also  renew 
its  absolute  commitment  to  the  principles  of  the 
sovereign  equality  of  States,  non-intervention  and 
non-interference in their internal affairs, and freedom 
of international trade and shipping. We also call for the 
prompt return of Guantánamo to Cuba, another unjust 
and illegitimate act on the part of the United States.
Argentina hopes that this is the last resolution that 
the General Assembly will adopt on this issue and that 
next year its content will be fully implemented by the 
United  States,  so  that  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  against  Cuba  may  be  relegated  to 
the past — an unjust past and one that the peoples and 
the Governments of the world, by actions of solidarity 
of the kind witnessed this morning, will prevent from 
being repeated.
Mr. Ja Song Nam (Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea):  The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  wishes  to  associate  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered by the representative of Iran on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned Movement, as well as with the one made 
by the representative of South Africa on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China.
The diplomatic recognition of Cuba by the United 
States symbolizes a total failure of the hostile policy of 
the United States against Cuba, which has persisted for 
decades. However, the essence of the anti-Cuba policy 
of the United States remains the same; the economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba is still 
in place.
It  is  the  unanimous  demand  of  Member  States 
that  the  United  States  put  an  end  to  the  unilateral 
economic, trade and financial embargo against Cuba as 
soon as possible, so that Cuba can achieve sustainable 
development in a peaceful environment.
The  facts  show  that  the  United  States  embargo 
against Cuba, which has lasted for several decades in 
an attempt to overthrow the legitimate socialist system 
chosen by the Cuban people, is doomed to failure. An 
attempt  to  change  a  sovereign  State’s  political  and 
economic system or overthrow a legitimate Government 
through sanctions and blockade is a rampant violation of 
the Charter of the United Nations and other international 
laws,  which  stipulate  the  principles  of  respect  for 
24/25 
15-33534
26/10/2015 
A/70/PV.40
national  sovereignty,  the  sovereign  equality  of  States 
and non-interference in others’ internal affairs.
According 
to  data 
released  by 
the  Cuban 
Government,  the  total  economic  loss  suffered  by 
Cuba owing to the embargo has reached astronomical 
proportions.  The  extraterritorial  Helms-Burton  Act, 
which  expands  the  scope  of  the  sanctions  to  other 
countries  wishing  to  develop  peaceful  economic  and 
trade  relationships  with  Cuba,  is  hampering  the  joint 
efforts  of  the  countries  in  the  region  that  aspire  to 
peaceful and stable development.
In accordance with its consistent stand against all 
forms  of  interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States 
and sanctions against sovereign States, the delegation 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  as  in 
the  past,  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  70/5,  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba”.  We  once  again  strongly  urge 
the United States to lift its embargo against Cuba once 
and for all.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  once  again  to  extend 
our  full  support  to  and  solidarity  with  the  Cuban 
Government and the Cuban people, who are fighting to 
safeguard the dignity and sovereignty of their nation in 
the face of the United States embargo.
The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.
15-33534
25/25
