United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
18th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 29 September 2015, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.18
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Alyemany 
(Yemen), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.15 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Ms. Aja Isatou Njie-Saidy, 
Vice-President of the Republic of the Gambia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Vice-President 
of the Republic of the Gambia.
Ms.  Aja  Isatou  Njie-Saidy,  Vice-President  of 
the  Republic  of  the  Gambia,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Aja 
Isatou  Njie-Saidy,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of 
the  Gambia,  and  inviting  her  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Ms.  Njie-Saidy  (Gambia):  First  and  foremost,  I 
bring  greetings  and  best  wishes  from  His  Excellency 
Sheikh Professor Alhaji Dr. Yahya A.J.J. Jammeh Babil 
Mansa, President of the Republic of the Gambia, who 
has  also  directed  me  to  read  out  his  statement  on  his 
behalf, as follows.
“I wish to first and foremost praise the Almighty 
Allah  for  granting  me  this  opportunity  to  once 
again be part of this 2015 General Assembly with 
leaders  from  around  the  globe.  I  also  pray  to  the 
Almighty Allah to guide us throughout this session 
and provide us with the necessary wisdom, courage 
and blessing for the fulfilment of our objectives.
“But before speaking any further, please allow 
me  to  first  extend  my  warmest  congratulations 
to  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  in  his  new  position  as 
the  elected  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  seventieth  session  and  to  further  wish  him  all 
the  best  in  his  official  endeavours  throughout  his 
tenure.  The  entire  Gambian  delegation  and  I  are 
pleased to support his presidency during the course 
of  these  deliberations.  By  being  entrusted  with 
such  a  special  responsibility,  it  is  fair  to  say  that 
the world has, in a position of consensus, identified 
his exemplary qualities and abilities as the perfect 
person to oversee the current global agenda for the 
building of a more caring world free of war ravages 
and underdevelopment.
Mr. 
Tommo 
Monthe 
(Cameroon), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
“I  also  wish,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation  and 
on  my  own  behalf,  to  convey  my  special  thanks 
to his predecessor, Mr. Sam Kahamba Kutesa, for 
his  remarkable  performance  during  his  tenure  in 
office. We are very proud of him and will continue 
to wish him the best and give him all our support in 
his future undertakings.
“Last but not least, I wish to register our special 
commendation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
and  members  of  his  entire  supporting  team  who, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29595 (E)
*1529595*
A/70/PV.18 
29/09/2015
despite  difficult  challenges,  continue  to  perform 
their duties with notable success.
they have no regard for the sanctity of human life 
in the first place.
“There  has  never  been  a  moment  better  than 
this for our Organization collectively to reflect and 
resolve to respond with a special sense of urgency 
to the increasing complexities of global challenges 
that threaten to derail hundreds of years of peace, 
progress  and  prosperity  for  humankind.  It  is 
therefore imperative that, as an agent of change, the 
United Nations not fail to account for and cement 
the implementation of critical resolutions designed 
to assist our Member nations and, indeed, the entire 
universe for the improvement and sustainment of a 
better quality of life for all.
“In  order  to  effectively  achieve  the  goals 
set  forth  by  this  world  body  for  the  stability  and 
maintenance of world peace, all Member States, be 
they  big  or  small,  must  be  promptly  and  strongly 
reprimanded  or  censured  for  violations  that  are 
in  direct  conflict  with  the  United  Nations  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution 
70/1).
“I remain firm in my constant recommendation 
for  the  whole  world  to  stand  together  against  the 
continued barbarism and brutality of indiscriminate 
terrorism perpetrated against innocent men, women 
and  children,  causing  undue  suffering  and  losses 
that  often  render  the  victims  helpless,  homeless 
and hopeless. As genuine Muslims worshipping the 
Almighty Allah, whose message in the Holy Koran 
repeatedly draws our attention to the need to live 
together in peace for our common humanity, we the 
majority must not remain indifferent or silent with 
respect to those particularly sadistic sons of Satan 
who are committed to desecrating Islam itself with 
only  one  objective  and  inclination  —  to  wreak 
havoc on their fellow human beings.
“Let me say again as I have said in this forum 
and many others elsewhere that the propaganda and 
propagation of these Satanic ideologies are not only 
a fraudulent misrepresentation of Islam — a noble 
religion  indeed  —  and  a  mockery  of  democratic 
ideals, but an insult to the Almighty Allah himself, 
making  it  ever  more  necessary  to  nullify  their 
existence  by  all  means  possible.  Their  baseless 
claims and increasing attacks on peaceful regions 
require  the  United  Nations  in  particular  to  come 
together to exterminate these barbaric monsters, as 
“Countries  that  are  caught  at  the  crossroads 
and  are  embroiled  in  conflicts  with  terrorism 
deserve our unfettered and unmitigated support. I 
therefore call upon Member nations to fully commit 
to  the  Organization’s  basic  tenets  regarding  the 
solidification of enduring solutions that protect and 
sustain all human life. As true Muslims and Allah-
worshipping people, we must understand that these 
are unconscionable acts that should be subjected to 
the toughest penalties.
“In  recognition  of  the  need  for  world  peace, 
my  Government  respects  the  recent  landmark 
agreement  on  the  Iran  nuclear  issue,  outlined  in 
the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, in which 
Iran has agreed — along with the United States of 
America, Russia, China and Germany — to limit its 
nuclear  programme as specified. My Government 
believes  that  it  is  an  important  achievement  with 
the  right  measures,  particularly  if  they  are  put  in 
place, for monitoring and accountability purposes.
“While  we  welcome  the  Iranian  agreement 
to  curb  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons, 
the  need  remains  to  address  perennial  conflicts 
with a high human cost to our youth, women and 
children, and to defuse persistently tense situations 
with  high  potential  for  escalation  into  a  nuclear 
conflagration.  I  therefore  call  upon  this  global 
institution  and  regional  organizations  charged 
with  the  responsibility  of  conflict  resolution, 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  to  firm  up  our 
commitment  to  international  peace  and  security. 
That is imperative in order to end the dangerously 
escalating acts of violence, terrorism and banditry 
in simmering trouble spots the world over.
“The  continuation  of  these  conflicts  calls 
into  question  the  efficacy  of  the  United  Nations 
in  executing  the  principal  function  for  which  it 
was  first  created.  Paradoxically,  however,  their 
persistence  constitutes  highly  valued  gains  for 
some  unscrupulous  enemies  of  peace,  as  the 
belligerents  and  opposing  factions  are  supported 
by States, entities and individuals for geopolitical, 
economic and military strategic interests based on 
greed and hatred for the rest of humankind.
“I  would  also  urge  that  the  United  Nations 
address the post-Ebola 2014 virus epidemic, which 
2/23 
15-29595
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.18
claimed and maimed thousands of lives, mostly in 
the hardest-hit West African subregion. While the 
sizeable  monetary,  medical  personnel  and  supply 
contributions had a huge impact on its containment 
and  treatment,  there  are  invariably  vast  rippling 
effects  for  almost  the  entire  continent.  The  slow 
reaction  times  for  response  efforts,  human  fear 
and media reports have had a wide-scale negative 
economic  impact  on  a  large  number  of  countries. 
As  a  result  of  continued  reductions  in  trade  and 
foreign  investment,  border  closures  and  flight 
cancellations,  the  United  Nations  Development 
Group has projected that West Africa stands to lose 
more than $3.6 billion annually over the next three 
years. As the virus still poses a threat to the world, 
there  are  a  number  of  solutions  that  the  United 
Nations  could  support  to  contain  and  prevent  the 
disease from re-emerging and spreading.
“Critical  among  such  approaches  is  the  need 
to  invest  in  awareness  campaigns,  education  and 
vaccinations  to  ensure  the  safety  and  security  of 
the whole world community. Obviously, we cannot 
but continue to express our sincere appreciation for 
the timely and effective intervention of the Cuban 
Government, the Russian Federation and the United 
States Government, whose rapid deployment of the 
necessary logistics, including medical teams, to the 
worst-affected areas helped immensely in stopping 
the spread of the disease.
“Despite  persisting  challenges,  Africa  and 
the  Gambia  continue  to  make  effective  gains  in 
achieving  many  aspects  of  the  2015  Millennium 
Development Goals. To begin with, protecting our 
environment  must  emphatically  remain  a  major 
priority  for  this  global  body  because  registered 
climate  changes  over  the  course  of  history  have 
significantly  impacted  negatively  on  our  planet 
Earth  and  demand  our  immediate  and  permanent 
attention.  The  planet  is,  after  all,  our  only  home, 
which we must passionately protect for the benefit 
of present and future generations.
“That,  in  essence,  demands  from  all  of  us 
the  steadfastness  to  soundly  manage  our  natural 
resources for both economic and social development. 
We can no longer continue to pretend not to know or 
live in denial of the challenges faced by humankind 
from  the  adverse  impact  of  the  depletion  of  our 
natural  resources,  as  manifest  today  in  the  form 
of  desertification,  drought,  land  degradation  and 
ocean acidification though activities of State-owned 
and multinational companies, mostly from the West 
and the developed world.
“This body must act with greater commitment 
and  resolve  to  establish  sustainable  conservation 
programmes,  with  production  patterns  aimed  at 
effectively  combating  climate  change,  restorating 
our ecosystems, promoting forest management and 
reversing  desertification  and  land  degradation. 
It  is  also  the  obligation  of  the  United  Nations  to 
be  resilient  in  ensuring  the  reduction  of  the  risks 
of  man-made  disasters  that  often  cause  massive 
pollution  to  our  seas,  oceans  and  fresh  water 
sources.
“Therefore,  my  Government  continues 
to 
reiterate the significance of how Security Council 
reform bears on the global interests of all Member 
States and the enduring interests of the Organization 
as  well.  As  clearly  articulated  in  decision  62/557 
adopted  by  a  consensus  of  Member  States,  we, 
the stakeholders, all support the laudable idea that 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council reform should be driven by Member States 
themselves and that the positions of Member States 
should  form  the  foundation  of  the  negotiations  in 
the first instance.
“We  are,  however,  yet  to  realize  a  reflection 
of such principles and consensus in the Council’s 
general  approach  and  framework  document.  In 
order  for  the  Security  Council’s  multifaceted 
reform to realize its desired objective of increased 
efficiency  and  effective  representation 
in  an 
atmosphere  governed  by  democratic  working 
methods, top priority should be given to increasing 
the representation of African countries in particular, 
which  will  provide  us  with  better  opportunities 
to  participate  in  the  Council’s  decision-making 
process.
“We  must  bear  in  mind  that  African  nations 
represent  more  than  1  billion  people  in  this  body 
and  constitute  54  sovereign  States  here,  making 
it  ever  more  important  and  more  qualified  for 
the  allocation  of  the  two  permanent  and  two 
non-permanent  seats  that  Africa  rightly  deserves. 
But our calls have never heeded despite persistent 
appeals, as articulated in the Ezulwini Consensus 
and Sirte Declaration, among others.
15-29595
3/23
A/70/PV.18 
29/09/2015
“It has been 15 years since 2000 and the initial 
development  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, and, though progress in various degrees has 
been  accomplished  among  Member  States,  with 
broader,  more  reliable  and  sustainable  goals  we 
must continue to build on proposed motions so as 
to ensure the real achievement of the goals that we 
set for ourselves.
“Despite 
the  marked  evolution 
in  human 
diversity,  there  are  some  tenets  with  respect  to 
people’s religious beliefs and values that are sacred 
and no country, big or small, should be allowed to 
insult another country or bully it for honouring the 
traditions that govern its people. To do so is both 
disrespectful and dangerous. Whereas materialism, 
terrorism, crime, obsession with weapons of mass 
destruction,  and  deviant  lifestyles  seem  to  be  the 
order  of  the  day,  we  must  make  no  mistake  that 
there are still right and wrong deeds, and positive 
and  negative  consequences.  As  much  as  some 
behaviours  are  clearly  in  violation  of  laws  and 
societal  norms,  there  are  others  that  are  a  direct 
insult to our respective religions. I maintain that all 
of  the  aforementioned  behaviours  are  displeasing 
to  the  Almighty  Allah  and  against  the  principles 
that  govern  peaceful  and  loving  Muslims  and 
Christians alike.
Mr. 
Tommo 
Monthe 
(Cameroon), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
“For 70 years since the founding of the United 
Nations,  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights has continued to maintain the same language 
as  the  mainstay  of  literally  every  United  Nations 
resolution  and  conference  that  has  to  do  with  the 
family,  namely,  that  the  family  is  the  natural  and 
fundamental group unit of society. So that spirit has 
excluded and still should exclude any international 
acknowledgement of relationships between persons 
of the same sex to signify a family, as in the case 
of homosexual civil unions and so-called same-sex 
marriages.  Therefore  given  the  natural  structure 
of  human  nature  and  society,  we  must  not  allow 
ourselves to depart from the Universal Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  norm  by  entertaining  deviant 
beliefs  that  reduce  the  family  to  Government 
approval  of  adult  sexual  and  emotional  desires, 
instead  of  recognizing  them  as  central  agents  to 
achieve the common good of spouses, children and 
society at large.
“I wish to shift attention to the great continent 
of Africa, whose human and vast natural resources 
have always been the target of trespassers who have 
trampled our economic, social, political, and human 
rights.  Although  there  has  been  a  steep  learning 
curve with regard to becoming self-sufficient, there 
has always been and will always persist a desire for 
Africa  to  remain  forever  independent  of  colonial 
rule and subjugation.
“In fact, my Government and other States have 
made an iron-clad promise to our citizens that this 
is our time and our era. It is time for Africa to reap 
the benefit of its divine inheritance. It is time for 
Africa  to  dispel  the  myths  and  falsehoods  about 
its history and people. It is time for Africa to stop 
people from taking advantage of our glorious and 
rich  natural  resources,  and  to  stand  up  for  what 
it  believes  in,  what  it  is  interested  in  and  what 
is  better  for  its  people.  No  longer  will  we  as  a 
continent be robbed of our very means to progress 
and prosperity.
“It is heartbreaking to live with the sad reality 
that the United Nations cannot gain much traction 
in  arresting  the  state  of  incessant  violence  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories,  which  is  evident 
as  a  result  of  the  continuing  policy  of  settlement 
expansion and the climate of impunity relating to 
the  activities  of  the  settlers.  Although  there  is  an 
overwhelming  increase  in  the  number  of  areas  of 
conflict  in  the  Middle  East,  which  in  many  ways 
has  impacted  the  priorities  of  the  United  Nations 
there, our attention must never be distracted from 
the suffering of the Palestinian people. Their right 
to a State with secure borders and East Jerusalem 
as  its  capital  will  not  be  compromised.  This  long 
overdue  exigency,  which  is  backed  by  myriad 
United Nations resolutions — not least, the recent 
resolution 66/225, of 29 March 2012 — continues 
to be my Government’s position on this particular 
issue.
“The fight against drug and human trafficking 
should  be  seen  as  linked  to  international  security 
because  it  is  a  serious  threat  to  all  societies.  We 
know that the use and sale of drugs are deeply rooted 
in  violence  and  organized  crime.  We  also  know 
that drug trafficking is linked to terrorist activities 
and other crimes, including money-laundering and 
the sale and trade of arms. Wide-scale corruption 
exists  within  organized  groups  with  pervasive 
4/23 
15-29595
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.18
“At 
trafficking 
the  current  rate,  drug 
criminal mindsets. Therefore, the inherent threats 
of drug trafficking and its related problems require 
urgent action on the part of this international body.
is 
likely to become an epidemic that no country can 
escape  because  it  is  steadily  rising  to  become  a 
borderless threat. I therefore strongly urge that we 
approach this threat much more aggressively, with 
a comprehensive plan that involves accountability, 
full 
support. 
Moreover,  not  just  tougher  laws  and  penalties 
are  necessary;  critical  efforts  are  also  vital  to 
containing  the  spread  of  the  use  of  drugs,  as  is 
the  need  for  adequate  rehabilitation  measures  for 
enduring solutions.
international  commitment  and 
“I must underscore my Government’s gratitude 
to  the  Russian  Federation  for  sponsoring  the 
Moscow-Africa  Anti-Drug  Dialogue,  held  in  the 
Gambia on 23 July with the objective of mapping 
out the best means of approaching the hazard in the 
African continent and the world over. The meeting 
was a resounding success, and once again I stand 
to  sincerely  extol  the  special  part  played  by  the 
leaders  and  Government  of  Russia  for  a  job  well 
done.
to 
them.  For  centuries, 
“In conclusion, at the forefront of our agenda 
we  should  aggressively  discuss  how  we  can  cope 
with  the  evolution  of  enduring  issues  that  coexist 
in  our  societies,  such  as  trespassers  and  pillagers 
on free soil, willing to take what does not rightly 
belong 
the  African 
continent  remained  the  target  of  intrusion,  theft 
and enslavement by foreign Powers. Nevertheless, 
increased terrorism threats, hunger, poverty, crime 
and  disease  continue  to  expand  faster  than  our 
intelligence,  resources  and  might.  Global  peace, 
it would therefore seem, depends on our efforts to 
take corrective measures against rampant injustice.
“It  is  with  this  serious  concern  in  mind  that 
I  suggest  that,  on  the  basis  of  the  brutality  and 
inhumanity  of  the  slave  trade,  the  lingering 
influences and effects of colonialism, the pervasive 
destruction of human capital, and the theft of native 
African resources that are often rare and existing 
only on that extraordinarily diverse continent, this 
Organization  should  now  consider  remitting  an 
invoice of reparations to the entire world and made 
payable to the sovereign Governments of Africa.
“But  Members  should  know  that  such  action 
alone  is  not  enough  to  compensate  for  the  untold 
loss  of  life,  limb,  talent  and  resources  that  are 
vital  for  Africa  to  become  a  more  developed  and 
sustainable  nation.  It  would,  rather,  amount  to  a 
fairly acceptable gesture of restoration and justice 
for what Africa cannot reclaim.”
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of the Gambia for the statement she has just 
made.
Ms.  Aja  Isatou  Njie-Saidy,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Gambia,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Prayut Chan-o-cha, Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Thailand.
Mr.  Prayut  Chan-o-cha,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Thailand, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Prayut  Chan-o-cha, 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of  Thailand,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Chan-o-cha (Thailand) (spoke in Thai; English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  On  behalf 
of  the  Royal  Thai  Government,  I  should  like  to  join 
other  leaders  in  expressing  my  warm  congratulations 
to the United Nations on the occasion of its seventieth 
anniversary.
in 
I  wish  to  sincerely  thank  all  countries  for  their 
the 
expressions  of  condolence  and  solidarity 
aftermath  of  the  bombing  in  Bangkok  on  17  August. 
Thailand  strongly  condemns  this  barbaric  act,  which 
took  the  lives  of  many  innocent  civilians.  We  will 
never condone such violence. Let me therefore pledge 
our  firm  and  unwavering  determination  to  work  with 
all countries to uphold peace and stability everywhere.
During  the  past  70  years,  the  United  Nations  has 
made significant contributions to alleviating the plight 
and  problems  of  peoples  in  all  four  corners  of  the 
globe, playing a pivotal role in maintaining peace and 
security,  protecting  and  promoting  human  rights  and 
advancing the welfare and well-being of all humankind. 
15-29595
5/23
A/70/PV.18 
29/09/2015
In  the  area  of  peacekeeping,  the  United  Nations  has 
been  recognized  for  its  success  in  preventing  armed 
conflicts  from  escalating  into  war.  Nevertheless,  the 
United Nations remains duty-bound to shoulder a heavy 
humanitarian burden and build sustainable peace, which 
means continuing to carry out development work and 
assisting people on the ground. Thailand is determined 
to  provide  support  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations, especially in the area of development.
In  the  area  of  human  rights  Thailand  has  always 
accorded  priority  to  protecting  and  promoting  the 
human  rights  of  all  groups  of  people.  We  proudly 
served as a member of the Human Rights Council from 
2010 to 2013 and as its Chair from 2010 to 2011. During 
our tenure we advocated ourselves as a bridge-builder 
among  nations  and  groups  of  nations  with  diverging 
views  and  ideologies.  We  uphold  the  principle  of 
non-discrimination  and  constructive  partnerships,  as 
well as capacity-building of individual nations in their 
human rights promotion and protection efforts.
In  the  area  of  development,  the  United  Nations 
deserves credit for bringing progress and prosperity to 
all  Member  States.  Thailand  is  proud  to  be  a  part  of 
this transformative world agenda, which places people 
at  the  centre  of  development  in  order  to  eradicate 
poverty,  reduce  inequalities,  ensure  universal  health 
and well-being, promote good governance and the rule 
of law, and reduce disaster risks. Climate change will 
pose  a  major  challenge  to  the  achievement  of  various 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  It  is  therefore  our 
shared responsibility to ensure that the outcome of the 
twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change will be both ambitious and viable.
We live in a borderless world marked by a complex 
interlinkage of problems, and solving them will require 
a comprehensive approach because we cannot rely on 
a  one-size-fits-all  solution.  And  since  each  country’s 
circumstances are different, there ought to be different 
approaches  to  addressing  common  global  challenges. 
Today,  close  international  cooperation  and  enhanced 
partnerships are indispensable to tackling the problem 
of irregular migration, especially persons displaced by 
conflict,  which  has  created  protracted  humanitarian 
crises  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  Thailand  is  also 
facing this challenge, and we reaffirm our commitment 
to work closely with all to address this pressing issue.
The United Nations at 70 has a commendable track 
record  in  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  and 
the  prevention  of  human  rights  abuses.  Nevertheless, 
numerous  challenges  remain  and  require  a  holistic 
approach,  focusing  especially  on  the  development 
dimension. The imperative now is to focus on crafting a 
truly sustainable solution to peace and security, taking 
into  account  the  nexus  of  development  and  human 
rights.
Thailand’s  socioeconomic  success  of  the  past 
three decades, its ascent to the rank of middle-income 
country, and its status as a partner for development, owes 
a great deal to the sufficiency economy philosophy of 
His Majesty the King of Thailand. Thailand’s approach 
to  development  takes  inspiration  from  His  Majesty 
the  King’s  sufficiency  economy  philosophy,  which 
espouses moderation, prudence and resilience. It teaches 
people  to  be  moral,  wise  and  self-reliant  and  to  live 
modestly and in harmony with society and nature. This 
people-centred  development  is  indeed  consonant  with 
the  United  Nations  new  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1). His Majesty the King’s 
sufficiency  economy  philosophy  has  been  recognized 
internationally.  In  2006,  His  Majesty  the  King  was 
awarded the United Nations Development Programme 
Human Development Lifetime Achievement Award.
The  strategy  underpinning  my  Government’s 
approach  to  national  development  inspired  by  His 
Majesty the King’s philosophy is to make the country 
stable,  prosperous  and  sustainable.  The  goals  include 
reducing  disparity  and  inequality,  promoting  the  rule 
of law and good governance, fostering national unity, 
enhancing economic connectivity with our neighbours 
and pursuing development that would not compromise 
the  ability  of  future  generations  to  meet  their  own 
needs.
Security and stability, allowing people to live free 
from fear and free from want, are top priorities for my 
country, and it is my conviction that Thailand will be 
stable  only  when  we  have  developed  ourselves  into  a 
nation of virtuous, competent and enlightened citizens 
who live their lives responsibly and for the greater good. 
The Government has a role to play in the promotion of 
such a society, in which individuals actively take part 
in building a stronger and better future for themselves 
and  for  the  community  so  that  they  can  be  resilient 
enough to cope with future challenges.
Climate  change  is  a  major  challenge,  and  all 
countries  must  cooperate  to  manage  the  challenge  it 
poses. Thailand reaffirms its commitment to reducing 
greenhouse-gas  emissions  by  between  20  and  25  per 
6/23 
15-29595
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.18
cent  by  the  year  2030,  in  line  with  our  commitment 
under the intended nationally determined contributions. 
Furthermore, sustainability can be achieved only when 
we  put  in  place  a  framework  of  fair  rules  for  all  and 
promote good governance that in turn leads to greater 
transparency  and  accountability.  We  will  stress  joint 
ownership  and  the  collective  efforts  of  all  across  all 
sectors because people are the main agents of change, 
and that change must begin from within.
Thailand  is  therefore  undertaking  comprehensive 
reforms on several fronts to make our country stronger 
and  better  in  the  hope  that  we  will  achieve  security, 
prosperity and sustainability, and pave the way towards 
resilient  democracy.  Some  of  these  major  reforms 
include  amending  laws  and  strengthening  the  justice 
system,  and  improving  public-sector  efficiency.  What 
we do today will become history tomorrow. Therefore, 
we must make the best of today so that 10 or 20 years 
from now we will be remembered for our actions. We 
want Thailand to be stronger and better and to become 
more actively involved in the work of the United Nations 
to shape a brighter future for us all.
We often expect the strongest to help the weakest 
and  the  most  vulnerable,  but  given  the  widening  gap 
between  the  strongest  and  the  weakest  we  must  not 
overlook what those in the middle can do. This middle 
group  of  countries  actually  constitutes  the  majority. 
They may be strong enough to stand on their own feet 
while  still  remaining  in  touch  with  the  instructive 
experiences of their growth and development. Therefore 
they can serve as a crucial link between the strongest 
and the weakest.
As  a  middle-income  country,  Thailand  firmly 
believes  that  development  cannot  be  truly  sustainable 
when  some  countries  forge  ahead  and  leave  others 
behind.  That  is  why  we  have  pursued  the  “Thailand-
Plus-One”  policy 
region-wide 
economic  and  industrial  development,  so  that  our 
neighbours  can  advance  alongside  us.  This  includes 
projects  of  transport  connectivity  and  the  creation  of 
special  economic  zones  along  our  borders  with  our 
neighbours in support of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations.
all-inclusive, 
for 
At  present,  the  majority  of  people  in  developing 
countries are in the agricultural sector. They currently 
face  a  host  of  challenges,  such  as  trade  barriers, 
competition  on  the  world  market,  climate  change, 
debt,  poverty  and  a  diminishing  workforce.  All  these 
challenges  put  the  world’s  food  security  at  risk. 
Therefore,  we  must  join  hands  to  help  developing 
countries, particularly through North-South and South-
South cooperation and by strengthening the agricultural 
sector.
Aside  from  looking  after  our  farmers,  we  must 
also empower other vulnerable groups, such as women, 
children and the disabled, and those at risk of having 
their  human  rights  violated  and  becoming  victims  of 
human  trafficking,  such  as  workers  in  the  fisheries 
sector. The Thai Government accords priority to solving 
the problem of human trafficking because it is a serious 
violation of human rights and necessitates humanitarian 
assistance. The comprehensive efforts that we are now 
undertaking in the areas of prevention, suppression and 
rehabilitation  will  contribute  to  regional  and  global 
efforts to tackle this problem.
As  regards  other  major  transnational  challenges, 
such  as  pandemics  and  drug  trafficking,  these  are 
issues that require enhanced international cooperation. 
Thailand  stands  ready  to  share  our  experiences  and 
best  practices  in  areas  where  we  have  expertise, 
namely  universal  health  coverage,  infectious  disease 
surveillance  and  sustainable  alternative  development. 
In  a  few  months,  we  will  be  organizing  the  second 
High-Level  International  Conference  on  Alternative 
Development.
Thailand attaches importance to building a culture 
of  peace.  We  have  also  actively  participated  in  the 
international efforts to address global challenges. It is 
for these reasons that Thailand has decided to run for 
a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the 
term 2017-2018. We believe that we can constructively 
serve  as  a  bridge-builder  among  Security  Council 
members and non-members. We believe that we can play 
a  constructive  role  in  bridging  different  cultures  and 
beliefs.  In  undertaking  this  important  responsibility, 
we hope to be able to promote good understanding and 
enhance  international  cooperation  in  our  collective 
endeavour to achieve the common goals of the United 
Nations.
As we enter a new era of development, the concept 
of  sustainability  should  be  integrated  into  all  three 
pillars  of  the  United  Nations  work.  We  have  been 
emphasizing  for  decades  how  these  three  pillars  are 
mutually reinforcing, but in reality we have been taking 
somewhat of a silo approach to peace and security, to 
development and to human rights. It is time to change all 
that. Now is the time to converge all three paths so that 
the road ahead for humanity in the next 70 years will be 
15-29595
7/23
A/70/PV.18 
29/09/2015
one of promises fulfilled, of visions transformed. Let 
us make it happen together now and let us turn our road 
into one that makes a difference.
It  is  our  firm  conviction  that  together  we,  the 
States Members of the United Nations, hold the power 
to  change  the  world  for  the  better.  I  hereby  reaffirm 
Thailand’s readiness to partner with all Member States 
in our continuing efforts to address both traditional and 
non-traditional challenges. We are indeed united in our 
aspiration to make the United Nations a true beacon of 
hope for humankind.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Thailand  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr.  Prayut  Chan-o-cha,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Thailand,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Ralph Gonsalves, Prime 
Minister, Minister for Finance, National 
Security, Grenadines and Legal Affairs of 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Finance,  National  Security,  Grenadines  and  Legal 
Affairs of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.
Mr. Ralph Gonsalves, Prime Minister, Minister for 
Finance, National Security, Grenadines and Legal 
Affairs  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Ralph Gonsalves, Prime 
Minister,  Minister  for  Finance,  National  Security, 
Grenadines and Legal Affairs of Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mr. Gonsalves (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): 
In the Christian Bible, the Book of Proverbs suggests 
that  mortal  men  live  for  threescore  and  ten  years,  a 
number that fairly accurately reflects the current modal 
life  expectancy  of  the  global  population.  Today  we 
have assembled for the seventieth time in the life of the 
United Nations with the legitimate question of whether 
this  imperfect  assembly  of  mortals  has  seen  its  best 
days, or if, by reason of the strength of our principles 
and  actions,  we  may  endure  to  overcome  tomorrow’s 
challenges.
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  looks  forward 
to  the  wise  and  experienced  stewardship  of  President 
Mogens  Lykketoft  during  this  seventieth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly.  President  Lykketoft,  who  will 
celebrate his seventieth birthday during his tenure, can 
confidently stand on the exceptional works performed 
by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa  during  last  year’s 
session.
This  year,  possibly  more  than  at  any  point  in  our 
modern history, our Assembly is beset by global threats 
and risks that force us to consider the ways in which our 
core principles of sovereignty and non-interference can 
overcome today’s challenges. Borderless menaces such 
as terrorism, economic crises, contagious diseases and 
climate change heed neither geopolitical boundaries nor 
governmental jurisdiction. Furthermore, the calamitous 
fallout of military adventurism, economic recklessness 
or environmental negligence is not confined to discrete 
national boundaries. Rather, the chickens often return 
to  roost  in  far-flung,  unexpected  and  often  blameless 
locales.  As  such,  more  than  ever  our  international 
relations must be defined by cooperation, collaboration 
and decisive action.
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  is  a  small, 
mountainous archipelago of 32 islands scattered across 
a shimmering Caribbean sea. But the idyll implicit in 
our verdant peaks and crystal waters is now belied by 
the grave and gathering threat of climate change. Rising 
and raging seas attack our coastline and infrastructure 
from  beyond  our  shores,  while  rains  and  climate 
volatility  make  landslides  and  deadly  flooding  a  real 
and  increasingly  frequent  internal  threat  to  lives  and 
livelihoods. 
The intensifying vulnerability of Saint Vincent and 
the Grenadines and its neighbouring islands to climate 
change is clear in the alternating bouts of drought and 
flooding  that  have  caused  hundreds  of  millions  of 
dollars in loss and damage in my country in successive 
years.  Less  than  two  years  ago,  devastating  floods 
washed away 17 per cent of our fragile gross domestic 
product and claimed 12 lives. Our quest to recover and 
to make our people whole again is a continuing struggle 
and one that takes place against a backdrop of hope that 
we are not soon beset by a similar tragedy.
One  month  ago,  tropical  storm  Erika  struck  our 
sister island of Dominica, a mere 150 miles north of our 
8/23 
15-29595
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.18
country. The death and destruction wrought by the storm 
are  heartrending  and  serve  as  yet  another  unwanted 
reminder of the ominous threat of global warming and 
the precarious nature of our developmental aspirations 
in  the  face  of  an  increasingly  inhospitable  climate. 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and other Caribbean 
countries have joined friendly nations in assisting the 
Commonwealth  of  Dominica  in  its  hour  of  need.  I 
beseech other countries that have not yet supported this 
noble effort of relief, recovery and reconstruction to do 
so with the utmost urgency and generosity.
in 
inform  our  posture 
Our  existential  struggles  in  the  face  of  climate 
change 
the  frustratingly 
meandering negotiations to arrive at a legally binding 
agreement within the parameters of the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change.  We  are 
two months away from a deadline for reaching such an 
agreement at the twenty-first session of the Conference 
of the Parties to the Convention (COP21) in Paris, but 
the precariousness of our global plight is not matched 
by the ambition of our partners. Indeed, the posturing 
and recalcitrance of some major emitters suggest that 
COP21 may be yet another empty diplomatic dance that 
prioritizes process over progress.
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  is  embracing  a 
green future. We are actively engaged in transitioning 
from fossil fuels to a renewable mix of solar, hydro and 
geothermal energy. Within the next three years, more 
than 80 per cent of our electricity needs will be provided 
by  renewable  energy.  If  we  could  control  our  climate 
destiny  and  insulate  ourselves  from  the  recklessness 
of  other  emitters,  we  would  approach  the  future  with 
greater confidence.
The  aftershocks  and  repercussions  of  the  global 
economic  and  financial  crisis  continue  to  convulse 
developing  nations.  The  crisis  casts  a  shadow  on 
our  collective  efforts  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  shrouds  our  newly  adopted 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  in  uncertainty.  The 
measure of our recovery is not the health of corporations 
or the rate of jobless economic growth, but the ways in 
which we have reformed our financial architecture and 
the reordering of priorities that places people and the 
alleviation of poverty at the centre of our developmental 
discourse. 
The late United States President John F. Kennedy 
once  said  that  if  a  free  society  cannot  help  the  many 
who are poor, it cannot save the few who are rich. The 
fortress  of  wealth  is  not  impregnable  to  the  growing 
unrest  and  instability  born  of  crushing  poverty.  Our 
failure to address and assault global poverty in this era 
of  excess  and  innovation  stands  as  the  most  stinging 
rebuke to our existing system of crass commercialism 
and unfettered corporate profiteering.
In an Assembly shaped by the desire to end global 
wars,  we  must  remember  Gandhi’s  admonition  that 
poverty is the worst form of violence. We cannot simply 
pay lip service to people’s right to development. Instead, 
that  right  must  emerge  as  the  driving  force  in  this 
Assembly’s senior years. The roots of modern poverty 
and underdevelopment are deep and diverse. But even 
the most casual student of history will acknowledge the 
debilitating and continuing impacts of native genocide 
and  the  institution  of  slavery  on  Caribbean  States. 
They constitute in the aggregate an awesome legacy of 
underdevelopment,  a  historic  bundle  of  wrongs  to  be 
righted. 
I  reiterate 
the  united  call  of 
the  Caribbean 
Community  for  reparatory  justice  from  the  major 
participants  in  and  beneficiaries  of  the  transatlantic 
slave  trade.  Our  quest  for  justice  is  supported  by  the 
33 members of the Community of Latin American and 
Caribbean  States  and  numerous  progressive  nations 
globally.  The  fate  of  our  indigenous  peoples  and 
the  legacies  of  slavery  and  colonial  exploitation  are 
neither  partisan  political  talking  points  nor  historical 
afterthoughts. They are an ever-present modern reality 
whose redress remains a noise in our blood and an echo 
in our bones. These issues must form part of the post-
2015 development conversation, and also a part of our 
combined efforts to uplift the International Decade for 
People of African Descent.
It pains me that I must yet again speak, and demand 
appropriate  redress,  on  the  subject  of  the  retroactive 
stripping  of  citizenship  of  persons  of  Haitian  descent 
born  in  the  Dominican  Republic  and  their  forcible 
deportation to Haiti, a country to which many of these 
victims have only a vague ancestral connection. We in 
the Caribbean Community are pledged to work with our 
Caribbean family in the Dominican Republic to assist 
in  ending  this  tragedy  at  the  heart  of  our  Caribbean 
civilization,  but  the  authorities  of  the  Dominican 
Republic  must  demonstrate  a  good  faith  not  merely 
in  words  but  in  deeds.  We  in  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines  cannot  remain  silent  or  indifferent  in  the 
face of this gross violation of human rights. This not a 
migration issue of the type that is currently engulfing 
the European Union. At its core, this is an international 
15-29595
9/23
A/70/PV.18 
29/09/2015
human rights issue of the gravest kind upon which the 
United Nations must pronounce unambiguously.
Seventy years ago, the United Nations was founded 
with  a  central  goal  of  saving  succeeding  generations 
from  the  scourge  of  war  —  the  very  first  principle 
enunciated  in  our  Charter.  Today,  wars  and  rumours 
of  wars  continue  to  bring  untold  sorrow  to  mankind. 
Too  often  these  wars  are  the  product  of  great  Power 
arrogance and decisions based not on fact but on wishful 
ideological impulses. The results of these actions and 
inactions  almost  invariably  exacerbate  underlying 
conflicts and produce unwanted global repercussions. 
International terrorism threatens us all and requires 
concerted 
international  cooperation.  Anti-terrorist 
intervention  must  not  be  shaped  by  which  side  of 
a  border  the  terrorist  armies  happen  to  encamp  or 
one’s  ideological  affinity  for  the  Governments  most 
threatened by these barbaric hordes. We have already 
learned that modern terrorism, wherever it takes root, 
can threaten peace and prosperity in any corner of the 
globe.  Stamping  it  out  must  be  a  shared  and  pressing 
priority.
Diplomacy  ought  to  be  most  active  in  averting 
conflict  and  defusing  disagreements.  Within 
the 
zone  of  peace  that  encompasses  Latin  America  and 
the  Caribbean,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines 
is  concerned  at  the  sharpening  of  rhetoric  between 
our  long-time  friends  and  allies  in  Guyana  and  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. Their border dispute, 
which  dates  back  to  the  nineteenth  century,  has  long 
been constrained by the ties of brotherhood, solidarity 
and international cooperation. Accordingly, we call for 
renewed  and  reinvigorated  diplomatic  engagement  in 
the management and ultimate resolution of this vexing 
issue.
The  maintenance  and  restoration  of  international 
peace and security have been the responsibility of the 
Security  Council  for  the  last  70  years.  The  Security 
Council,  more  than  any  other  body  delineated  in  our 
Charter,  is  unmistakably  in  a  period  of  doddering 
dotage, unable to act with the nimbleness or decisiveness 
necessary to meet modern challenges. The necessity of 
reform  and  rebirth,  which  is  acute  in  any  institution 
entering  its  eighth  decade,  is  particularly  pressing  in 
the case of the Security Council. For too long, reform 
efforts have fallen victim to the geopolitical ambitions 
of  entrenched  Council  members  and  the  regional 
rivalries  of  legitimate  aspirants.  This  must  end.  We 
must ensure that.
Similarly,  the  important  and  indispensable  work 
of  United  Nations  peacekeepers  throughout  the  world 
must  be  above  reproach.  The  United  Nations  must 
claim  responsibility  not  only  for  its  successes  but 
also  for  its  occasional  grave  failures.  Our  collective 
sanctimony  rings  hollow  when  the  United  Nations 
shirks  its  undeniable  responsibility  for  spreading 
cholera in Haiti, to the tune of 9,400 deaths and more 
than  400,000  hospitalized.  Legal  loopholes  cannot 
mask  moral  responsibility  in  this  case.  Nor  can 
we  condemn  sexual  violence  as  a  war  crime  while 
shrugging off the unacceptable actions of some United 
Nations peacekeepers in the Central African Republic. 
Our  Assembly  has  a  responsibility  to  be  open  and 
transparent to meet these sporadic failings head on and 
to offer redress to all victims of peacekeeper negligence 
or aggression.
On Wednesday, tomorrow, I will stand a few metres 
away  from  where  I  am  speaking  today  to  witness  the 
raising  of  the  flag  of  the  State  of  Palestine  alongside 
other  States’  flags  in  the  United  Nations  compound. 
The  decision  to  fly  the  Palestinian  flag  here  at  the 
United Nations, adopted by an overwhelming majority 
of Member States, is an unmistakable endorsement of a 
true two-State solution with a viable and safe Palestine 
living alongside its neighbours in a secure Israel. But 
the  symbolic  nature  of  next  week’s  ceremony  is  no 
substitute for continued action to make that two-State 
solution  a  reality.  With  each  passing  day,  realities  on 
the ground make such a solution increasingly difficult. 
Though  the  conflict  between  the  States  of  Israel  and 
Palestine are undeniably complex, they are not beyond 
the  capacity  of  the  parties  and  the  international 
community to resolve, and we must do so. And we must 
help in doing so.
The Assembly’s unambiguous position on Palestine 
is reminiscent of our long-standing and overwhelming 
opposition  to  the  United  States  commercial  and 
economic embargo against the people of the Republic 
of  Cuba.  The  embargo  has  persisted  for  55  of  the  70 
years that the United Nations has been in existence, and 
its toll is measured in billions of dollars, hundreds of 
lives and countless developmental opportunities lost.
This  year,  Presidents  Obama  and  Castro  have 
demonstrated laudable courage in working together to 
move  past  years  of  enmity  and  mutual  mistrust.  But 
the  welcome  détente  between  the  two  countries  has 
not yet led to a lifting of the embargo. There is much 
more to be done to unshackle the Cuban people from 
10/23 
15-29595
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.18
the  chains  of  an  unjust,  illegal  and  plainly  outmoded 
blockade.  Our  collective  pressure,  so  critical  to  the 
belated  rapprochement,  cannot  waver.  Instead,  we 
must intensify our calls for the complete lifting of this 
anachronism,  and  to  make  whole  this  rupture  in  our 
hemispheric family.
This  seventieth  year  of  the  United  Nations  must 
therefore be a year of not only action but also inclusion, 
outreach  and  redress  of  calcified  injustices.  As  such, 
we  must  move  beyond  our  inexplicable  exclusion  of 
Taiwan  from  the  work  of  the  specialized  agencies  of 
the  United  Nations.  The  perspective,  experience  and 
example of Taiwan as an active and responsible global 
citizen  are  self-evident  arguments  in  support  of  their 
greater inclusion and participation. Taiwan’s continued 
exclusion can be neither explained nor justified by any 
rational and forward-looking global gathering.
In this, our seventieth year, let us pledge ourselves 
to  liberate  our  nations  and  our  global  family  from 
the  continuing  bondage  of  poverty,  deprivation  and 
warfare;  to  emancipate  ourselves  from  the  mental 
slavery of discrimination and learned helplessness; to 
unshackle  our  policies  from  the  narrow  nationalism 
and  imperialist  ambition  that  constrains  the  limitless 
possibilities of the human spirit. As nations and peoples 
we have choices. In the 70 years of this Assembly’s life 
we  have  sometimes  chosen  unilateralism.  Many  have 
chosen militarism. Many have chosen, too, to defer and 
dissemble.
Today, as we look towards a complex and uncertain 
future, let us instead choose love — love of our fellow 
human  beings,  love  of  our  planet,  and  an  abiding 
love  not  of  problems  but  of  their  practical  solutions. 
For  with  love,  faith,  works  and  hope  all  things  are 
possible, including a further 70 years for the better of 
this remarkably important global gathering. We are all 
labouring in this vineyard. We must have the labour of 
love, of love, of love.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister 
for  Finance,  National  Security,  Grenadines  and  Legal 
Affairs  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Ralph Gonsalves, Prime Minister, Minister for 
Finance, National Security, Grenadines and Legal 
Affairs  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Habib Essid, Head of 
Government of the Republic of Tunisia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of 
Government of the Republic or Tunisia.
Mr.  Habib  Essid,  Head  of  Government  of  the 
Republic of Tunisia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Habib 
Essid, Head of Government of the Republic of Tunisia, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Essid  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  is  my 
honour, as I begin my statement, to convey to Mr. Mogens 
Lykketoft, and through him to his country, Denmark, 
our sincere congratulations on his appointment to the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session.  I  should  also  like  to  express  our  thanks  to 
Mr. Sam Kutesa for his able leadership of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-ninth session.
At this time, I should also like to thank Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and assure him of the constant 
support of Tunisia in carrying out his noble duty.
In  the  past  few  years,  Tunisia  has  seen  very 
important  events  occurring  in  the  framework  of  its 
democratic  transitional  process.  There  is  now  greater 
political and national awareness among politicians and 
components  of  civil  society,  which  has  allowed  us  to 
adopt dialogue as the only means to seek solutions to our 
crises and differences of opinion, and to avoid violence, 
individualism and exclusion. Thanks to this consensus-
based approach, Tunisia has been able to adopt a new 
Constitution that manifests the fundamental values of 
democracy, human rights and the peaceful handover of 
power. Similarly, and in the framework of the transition 
process,  we  succeeded  in  organizing  legislative  and 
presidential  elections.  Observers,  both  inside  and 
outside  the  country,  bore  witness  to  the  integrity, 
transparency and independence of the elections, which 
allowed  us  to  establish  robust,  permanent  democratic 
institutions. 
As 
the  success  of  any  political  process 
is 
contingent  upon  efforts  made  on  the  economic  and 
social fronts, the Tunisian Government, guided by its 
awareness of the need to tackle current challenges — in 
particular  countering  unemployment,  strengthening 
national  development  investment  and  ensuring  social 
justice  —  decided  to  draw  up  a  strategic  vision  for 
15-29595
11/23
A/70/PV.18 
29/09/2015
the  country  for  2016-2020  that  will  determine  the 
guidelines  and  courses  set  nationally 
regarding 
sustainable  development.  In 
this  regard,  Tunisia 
reaffirms  its  responsibility  for  improving  growth  and 
development and acting in line with the aspirations of 
its people. We therefore urge our partners and friends 
in  the  international  community  to  support  national 
efforts in particular in the area of youth employment, 
strengthening  investment  and  support  for  local  and 
national development.
Regional  changes  have  been  swift  and  ongoing. 
We have seen them lead over the past few years to an 
exacerbation of the terrorist threat that now jeopardizes 
the  stability  and  security  of  many  States  of  the 
region,  including  mine.  While  our  country  has  made 
significant progress in the area of security and counter-
terrorism  —  particularly  through  the  defeat  of  many 
terrorist plans and other criminal activities and the arrest 
of many suspects who were then prosecuted — over the 
course of this past year, we have nonetheless been the 
victims  of  two  heinous  terrorist  attacks  targeting  the 
Bardo Museum and a tourist site in the city of Sousse in 
a cowardly attempt to undermine our social approach of 
centrism, moderation and tolerance, and to frustrate the 
economy by targeting its vital tourist sector. While we 
express our great sadness regarding the country’s losses 
from these two crimes, we affirm that the perpetrators 
of  these  crimes  will  not  enjoy  impunity.  No  one  can 
resort to terrorism to further his own objectives or to 
destroy Tunisian society. 
Our  plan  for  counter-terrorism  is  based  on  a 
comprehensive  and  integrated  approach  that  goes 
beyond the necessity for military and security responses 
and  seeks  to  understand  the  political,  social,  cultural 
and  economic  reasons  behind  terrorism.  Nationally 
speaking,  the  prevalence  of  terrorism  and  extremism 
across  the  globe  is  now  a  significant  incentive  for 
finding a new way to combat terrorism, in accordance 
with bilateral and multilateral cooperation frameworks.
While  we  welcome  all 
to  coordinate 
international efforts to combat terrorism, we reiterate 
our  offer,  made  from  this  rostrum,  to  convene  an 
international  high-level  counter-terrorism  conference 
in Tunisia aimed at coordinating international efforts.
initiatives 
The  alarming  increase  in  conflicts  and  tensions 
throughout the world, whatever the reason, is of great 
concern to us. It requires the international community 
to scale up its efforts to find ways to halt these conflicts 
peacefully,  particularly  by  prioritizing  dialogue  and 
mediation  efforts  and  strengthening  activities  for 
peacebuilding.
For  Tunisia,  the  Palestinian  cause  remains  at  the 
core  of  important  issues  and  conflicts  in  the  region. 
We therefore reiterate our full support to the brotherly 
Palestinian people as it seeks to recuperate its legitimate 
rights  to  self-determination  and  the  establishment  of 
its  independent  State.  Tunisia  supports  efforts  for  the 
continuance of peace negotiations between Palestinians 
and  Israelis  on  the  basis  of  a  timeline  for  ending  the 
occupation,  and  for  the  adoption  of  a  United  Nations 
resolution that would put an end to the Israeli occupation 
and  restore  to  the  Palestinian  people  their  legitimate 
rights. We also condemn the ongoing Israeli blockade 
of  the  Gaza  Strip  and  its  settlement  policy,  which  is 
in  violation  of  international  law  and  international 
legitimacy. They represent an attempt to impose a new 
status  quo  and  to  undermine  the  two-State  solution 
as  well  as  efforts  to  continue  talks  on  the  basis  of  a 
solution that would guarantee security and stability for 
all countries of the region.
Near  Tunisia,  the  brotherly  Libyan  people  are 
seeing the fallout from a crisis that threatens its stability 
and security and goes beyond the borders of the Libyan 
State to jeopardize the stability of the entire region, and 
Tunisia in particular. We firmly believe that dialogue 
remains the sole solution to overcoming Libya’s internal 
differences and to ensuring national reconciliation and 
respect for the will of the Libyan people for a political 
solution and a rejection of violence. 
I reaffirm Tunisia’s appeal to the brotherly country 
of Libya and our support for efforts to find a political 
solution under United Nations auspices and establish a 
Government of national reconciliation and accord. The 
international  community’s  support  is  very  important 
in  that  respect.  The  threats  and  dangers  posed  to 
neighbouring  countries  by  the  spread  of  the  terrorist 
organization  Daesh  from  Libya  are  growing.  That 
requires  strengthened  coordination  and  cooperation 
among neighbouring States. We also need support from 
the international community in our efforts to suppress 
the threats to neighbouring countries.
In addition to the crises in our region, four and a 
half  years  have  passed  as  the  Syrian  crisis  continues 
to deteriorate. That is a reflection of the gravity of the 
political  and  humanitarian  crisis  in  which  our  Syrian 
brothers  have  suffered  death,  displacement  and  other 
travails.  The  situation  calls  for  credible  action  on  the 
part of the international community to coordinate and 
12/23 
15-29595
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.18
mobilize  efforts  to  take  immediate  measures  to  halt 
the  violence,  disorder  and  chaos  and  to  protect  life. 
Tunisia urges all influential stakeholders in the Syrian 
conflict  to  step  up  their  efforts  to  find  a  consensus-
based political solution to the crisis based on dialogue 
and  peace.  We  welcome  the  international  efforts  to 
breathe new life and hope into the situation and to find 
a  consensus-based  political  solution  that  will  spare 
Syria the threat of fragmentation and division. 
In the face of the suffering of the brotherly country 
of Yemen and the humanitarian disaster that threatens 
to  tear  apart  Yemeni  society,  national  cohesion  and 
Government, we express our full support for all efforts 
to  put  an  end  to  the  bloodshed  and  war  and  to  assist 
the  country  to  move  beyond  this  crisis  and  alleviate 
the  suffering  of  the  Yemeni  people.  We  call  on  all 
factions  in  Yemen  to  return  to  the  negotiating  table 
and to prioritize dialogue and reason in the established 
framework for the country’s political transition.
Not  far  from  that  brotherly  Arab  country,  we  are 
seeing an exacerbation of the situation in Iraq, where 
terrorism is increasingly prevalent and entrenched, and 
ethnic and sectarian genocide is being perpetrated. This 
requires  a  firmer  resolve  than  ever  on  the  part  of  all 
regional and international stakeholders to re-establish 
security, stability and accountability for the gruesome 
crimes that have undermined the material, human and 
humanitarian assets in that country.
The  sixty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
saw  the  evolution  of  many  political,  development 
and  security  milestones.  We  saw  a  galvanization  of 
international efforts to ensure that all means were made 
available for success based on the growing awareness 
regarding the need to enhance justice in international 
relations and to put an end to disparities in development, 
while guaranteeing sustainable development for all in 
all  social,  economic  and  environmental  dimensions. 
Among  these  milestones  we  note  the  holding  of  the 
United  Nations  Summit  on  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  the 
adoption  of  important  resolutions  to  reduce  poverty, 
promote  social  development  and  actively  reduce 
the  gaps  between  the  countries  of  the  North  and  the 
South  by  improving  the  levels  of  development  in  all 
its  dimensions,  in  particular  in  developing  and  least 
developed countries.
Along these lines, the third Conference on Financing 
for Development in Addis Ababa in July saw the adoption 
technology 
of  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda,  reflecting  the 
concerns  of  developing  and  least  developed  countries 
regarding 
transfer,  capacity-building, 
development assistance and others, and complementing 
international  efforts  in  this  arena.  Tunisia  actively 
contributed  to  the  success  of  these  events  by  actively 
participating in the preparatory process in our capacity 
as a member of the intergovernmental Open Working 
Group  on  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  and  in  the 
geographical group relevant to this issue.
In the framework of similar efforts to support the 
work  of  the  international  community  in  sustainable 
development,  we  assisted  in  the  preparation  of  the 
twenty-first session of the Conference of States Parties 
to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change, which is to take place in Paris in December. 
We have finished preparing our nationally determined 
contribution,  which  reflects  the  country’s  efforts  in 
the  areas  of  adaptability  and  future  programmes.  We 
welcome  the  relative  successes  of  the  United  Nations 
in these areas. Nonetheless, we continue to believe that 
there  is  a  need  to  continue  to  work  together  to  better 
guarantee the efficiency of the Organization’s efforts to 
address important contemporary issues for humankind, 
in particular by broadening the decision-making circle 
and  encouraging  balance  in  international  relations  by 
enshrining the principle of partnership.
The choice of the topic “The United Nations at 70: 
the  road  ahead  for  peace,  security  and  human  rights” 
as the theme for this session of the General Assembly 
is  relevant  to  us  all  at  a  time  for  taking  stock  of  the 
progress that has been made in various areas. Each and 
every one of us here today is responsible for correcting 
imbalances  and  changing  the  future  or  destiny  of 
peoples  to  ensure  more  justice,  equality  and  fair 
sustainable  development.  We  are  all  accountable  for 
redressing these imbalances and ensuring that greater 
justice,  equality  and  equitably  distributed  sustainable 
development prevail in future. That also holds true for 
any  confrontations  and  for  establishing  channels  of 
communication in the framework of mutual respect. We 
shall spare no effort to achieve these noble goals.
In  conclusion,  allow  me  also  to  convey  my  hope 
that the United Nations will be capable of tackling the 
major challenges before us today so that, thanks to the 
shared desire of Member States, we can achieve peace, 
development  and  security.  I  am  convinced  that  the 
common ground that brings us together is much more 
significant than the differences that divide us.
15-29595
13/23
A/70/PV.18 
29/09/2015
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Head of Government of the Republic of Tunisia for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Habib  Essid,  Head  of  Government  of  the 
Republic of Tunisia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Samiuela ‘Akilisi Pohiva, Prime 
Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
Trade, Minister for Education and Training of 
the Kingdom of Tonga
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and Trade, Minister for Education and 
Training of the Kingdom of Tonga.
Mr.  Samiuela  ‘Akilisi  Pohiva,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade,  Minister 
for  Education  and  Training  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Tonga, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Samiuela  ‘Akilisi 
Pohiva,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
and Trade and Minister for Education and Training of 
the Kingdom of Tonga, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Pohiva  (Tonga):  I  congratulate  Mr.  Mogens 
Lykketoft  on  his  assumption  of  the  presidency  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session  and 
assure him of our full support. I should also thank his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  for  his  excellent  work, 
and Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his leadership.
I stand before the Assembly humbled by the words 
of His Holiness Pope Francis as he addressed this body 
mere days ago (see A/70/PV.3). I am humbled because 
in  his  address  His  Holiness  the  Pope  spoke  directly 
to  those  political  issues  that  occupy  us  all  —  those 
issues that we might easily resolve if only we had more 
political commitment and more political will. But His 
Holiness the Pope spoke in a language higher than that 
of politics — one of morality and of moral imperative. 
These  are  principles  and  ideals  that  have  guided  me 
throughout my life.
In this Hall, we are often guilty of an abstraction we 
call “political will”, the political will to address climate 
change,  to  be  careful  stewards  of  our  environment, 
and  to  address  devastating  global  inequalities  in 
development. This abstraction distracts us. It distracts 
us from our need for moral commitment and for moral 
courage. It is this language of morality that speaks to 
the privileged with the imperative “you must leave no 
one  behind”.  It  is  in  this  spirit  of  moral  commitment 
that I speak to the work my Government has undertaken 
to  serve  the  underserved  and  to  meet  our  aspirations 
as they are presently embodied in the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1).
As  the  first  democratically  elected  representative 
of  the  people  to  the  rank  of  Prime  Minister  in  my 
country, I am particularly pleased with the inclusion of 
Sustainable  Development  Goal  16  related  to  building 
effective,  accountable  and 
institutions 
at  all  levels.  That  Goal  relates  to  the  notion  of  good 
governance — the guiding principle of my Government 
under  our  democracy,  fit  for  purpose,  and  a  principle 
that I have always demanded of any Government of the 
day in Tonga throughout my almost 30-year career in 
politics.
inclusive 
transparency,  accountability  and 
Indeed,  it  is  my  Government’s  mantra  that  good 
governance, 
law 
and  order  will  drive  all  other  development  goals  of  a 
country. As such, my Government is committing time 
and  resources  to  strengthening  governing  institutions 
through  measures  such  as 
the  establishment  of 
an  anti-corruption  commission,  and  considering 
approaches to removing other challenges and constraints 
on the sustainable development of the country, such as 
cultural perceptions and religious dogmas.
The  objectives  of  good  governance,  effective 
accountable and inclusive institutions are impossible to 
meet  without  full  support  for  the  human  rights  of  all 
peoples living in areas of conflict throughout the world, 
including in the Pacific islands. Tonga reiterates its call 
for the root causes of such conflicts to be resolved by 
peaceful means, and in full recognition of the principle 
of the sovereignty of States.
With the Agenda adopted, the central challenge for 
us  at  this  seventieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
is  to  translate  these  aspirations  into  concrete  actions. 
Our  final  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
report 2015 revealed that the achievement in the areas 
of health and education has helped to maintain Tonga’s 
position in the Human Development Index. Our people 
now  enjoy  an  acceptable  standard  of  quality  health 
service,  and  children  and  young  people  are  able  to 
go to school and advance to higher education. We are 
pleased to note that the 14 new priorities for Tonga for 
the next 15 years, as set out in our final MDGs report, 
14/23 
15-29595
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.18
are  all  included  in  the  17  Goals  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for 2030: Goal 1, no poverty; Goal 3, good health and 
well-being;  Goal  4,  quality  education;  Goal  5,  gender 
equality;  Goal  8,  decent  work  and  economic  growth; 
Goal  9,  industry,  innovation  and  infrastructure;  Goal 
10, reduce inequalities; Goal 15, life on land; and Goal 
17, partnership for the Goals.
Therefore, I confirm here again my Government’s 
full  support  for  the  Agenda  and,  with  the  assistance 
of  development  partners,  we  will  do  our  utmost  to 
achieve  them  by  2030.  We  in  Tonga  had  followed  the 
best practice of the MDGs journey. It was an incredible 
learning experience for my country and we will adopt 
these best practices towards our implementation of the 
new Development Goals and the Agenda as a whole.
Tonga,  as  a  Pacific  small  island  developing  State 
(SIDS),  must  meet  the  goals  on  oceans  and  seas  and 
climate  change,  to  ensure  access  to  affordable  and 
sustainable energy for all, and the promotion of peaceful 
and  inclusive  societies  for  sustainable  development. 
Tonga is also aided by the priorities and commitments 
set  out  in  the  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action 
(SAMOA)  Pathway,  which  represents  an  international 
commitment to genuine and durable partnerships. That 
was advanced by this year’s SIDS partnership dialogue, 
the  creation  of  a  SIDS  Partnership  Framework,  and 
in  the  report  of  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit  assessment 
of  United  Nations  system  support  for  SIDS.  The 
relationship between the Samoa Pathway and the 2030 
Agenda is now well established, and we must maintain 
the  links  between  these  documents  as  we  review  our 
progress.
The  Samoa  Pathway  is  also  significant  for  its 
central recognition that the challenges that islands such 
as  Tonga  face  are  different  and  therefore  qualify  our 
country  as  a  special  sustainable  development  case  in 
need  of  targeted  and  tailored  support.  This  message 
was  reaffirmed  in  the  discussion  on  the  means  of 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda,  it  having  been 
advanced,  as  can  be  clearly  seen,  in  the  outcome 
document  of  the  third  International  Conference  on 
Financing  for  Development,  which  makes  mention  of 
SIDS in 25 paragraphs.
A  key  piece  of  the  development  agenda  remains 
outstanding  as  we  look  forward  to  the  successful 
conclusion  of  negotiations  on  a  climate  agreement 
in  Paris  at  the  end  of  this  year.  That  agreement  must 
reaffirm  the  ultimate  objective  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change to stabilize 
greenhouse-gas  emissions  in  the  atmosphere.  Tonga 
remains  highly  vulnerable  to  natural  disasters,  which 
continue to increase in frequency and destructiveness. 
Climate change continues to pose an irreversible threat 
to  our  people,  our  society,  our  livelihoods  and  our 
natural environment.
In  this  regard,  we  welcome  the  dialogue  that  has 
taken place in the Security Council and that to be held 
at  a  side  event  to  be  hosted  by  the  Foreign  Ministers 
of France and Germany tomorrow afternoon, touching 
upon the security implications of climate change, and 
support  recognition  of  the  links  between  our  climate 
and international peace and security. We reaffirm our 
support for the call on the Secretary-General to appoint 
a  special  representative  on  climate  and  security  to 
thoroughly research and report on those links.
to 
natural 
Tonga’s 
vulnerability 
disasters 
re-emphasizes  the  SIDS  special  case  for  sustainable 
development, and such vulnerabilities should therefore 
be  factored  into  development  finance  calculations 
designed  to  assist  SIDS.  Currently,  the  use  of  gross 
domestic product per capita as the basis for determining 
the  access  of  SIDS  to  development  finance  should  be 
replaced by a comprehensive approach that recognizes 
our vulnerability to natural disaster. That move will save 
Tonga  from  increasing  its  indebtedness  in  obtaining 
funds from multilateral institutions for reconstruction 
in the wake of a cyclone. Currently, Tonga accesses these 
funds under the condition of a 50 per cent grant and a 
50  per  cent  credit.  We  therefore  support  the  proposal 
for adopting a new index reflective of our specific and 
unique national development characteristics.
committed 
the 
management  and  conservation  of  our  ocean  and  seas. 
This year, Tonga commenced its term on the Council of 
the International Seabed Authority. At home, we have 
enacted legislation related to seabed mining activities 
within  our  national  jurisdiction  under  the  relevant 
provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).
We 
remain 
thoroughly 
to 
We  remain  committed  to  the  conservation  and 
sustainable use of resources in areas beyond the national 
jurisdiction and fully support ongoing efforts towards an 
instrument regarding the same. We therefore welcomed 
the first meeting of the Pacific Ocean Alliance in May, 
under the auspices of the Office of the Pacific Ocean 
Commissioner of the Pacific Islands Forum in Fiji, to 
discuss the positions of Governments, the private sector 
and  civil  society  on  the  new  UNCLOS  implementing 
15-29595
15/23
A/70/PV.18 
29/09/2015
agreement  on  marine  biodiversity  in  areas  beyond 
national  jurisdiction.  Within  our  exclusive  economic 
zone,  we  continue  to  combat  the  problem  of  illegal, 
unreported and unregulated fishing. In welcoming the 
adoption  of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  14  on  the 
oceans  and  seas,  we  support  the  proposed  triennial 
United  Nations  ocean  and  seas  conference  to  drive 
progress on the goal.
As we work to translate our new Agenda into action, 
we recognize that the development system of the United 
Nations must adapt to suit our new priorities. We are 
supportive of efforts to ensure that the United Nations 
is  fit  for  purpose  to  implement  the  2030  Agenda.  We 
look  forward  to  continued  dialogue  on  longer-term 
positioning of the United Nations development system. 
In  the  same  vein,  Tonga  is  supportive  of  continued 
efforts  to  reform  the  Security  Council  through  an 
intergovernmental  process  in  the  pursuit  of  a  more 
representative and inclusive body, reflective of and in 
line with today’s realities.
Finally, most of us have come a long way looking 
with  hope  for  solutions.  Our  political  priorities  must 
not  distract  us  from  the  call  so  well  embodied  in  the 
2030  Agenda  to  leave  no  one  behind.  I  re-emphasize 
that this call speaks to us as leaders to work together 
against  injustice  and  cruel  violations  of  human  rights 
and dignity, as in the case of West Papuan Melanesia in 
the Pacific; this is within our power. It is a choice that 
those with power and privilege can make. The United 
Nations has a duty to closely follow up this West Papua 
case and take the necessary action to stop these brutal 
and inhuman activities.
We leaders must rise to a higher moral order beyond 
interests and be guided by what is fair and justiciable 
to  all.  I  am  concerned  that  the  message  delivered  by 
His Holiness Pope Francis and other world leaders we 
have heard in the past few days may not have been well 
and  truly  heard.  We  have  an  obligation,  a  duty,  and  I 
echo the challenge. We must meet this moral obligation 
internationally,  regionally  and  nationally,  or  else  we 
will be left behind.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  and  Minister  for 
Education  and  Training  of  the  Kingdom  of  Tonga  for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Samuela  ‘Akilisi  Pohiva,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade,  Minister 
for  Education  and  Training  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Tonga, was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms.  Julie  Bishop,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Commonwealth of Australia.
Ms.  Bishop  (Australia):  We  meet  this  day  at  an 
important  time  for  the  United  Nations,  70  years  after 
its  foundation.  Australia’s  representative  to  the  San 
Francisco  Conference  in  1945  described  the  General 
Assembly  as  the  place  where  the  conscience  of  the 
peoples  of  the  world  should  have  its  most  potent 
expression. It is appropriate then, here in the General 
Assembly Hall, to reflect on what the United Nations 
has achieved and what it needs to achieve for the future.
The United Nations provides critical services each 
and  every  day  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  Often  this 
important  work  goes  unnoticed  or  unappreciated  by 
those  not  in  direct  receipt  of  that  support.  Australia 
recognizes the dedicated, often courageous work of the 
thousands of United Nations personnel in the field who 
protect vulnerable citizens, deliver vital humanitarian 
assistance,  rebuild  damaged  societies  and  support 
development. The United Nations carries out its work 
in an increasingly hostile environment.
Today  the  world  faces  an  unprecedented  number 
of  long-running  and  seemingly  intractable  conflicts, 
generating  displacement  on  a  massive  scale  and 
making  humanitarian  need  more  dire  than  at  any 
time  since  the  Second  World  War.  Terrorism  today 
is  a  global  threat.  The  magnitude  of  the  development 
challenge is immense. However, we must acknowledge 
the remarkable achievement that is the United Nations 
Charter.  The  values  and  aspirations  articulated  seven 
decades ago still guide us today.
Australia  is  proud  that,  as  an  active  participant 
at the San Francisco Conference, we crafted a central 
element  of  the  Charter,  Article  56,  known  as  the 
Australia  Pledge.  Under  that  Article,  United  Nations 
Members pledge to take action individually and jointly 
to  promote  higher  standards  of  living;  solutions  to 
international  economic,  social,  health  and  related 
problems;  and  universal  respect  for,  and  observance 
of, human rights and fundamental freedoms. Australia 
took that pledge on signing the Charter in 1945. Today 
I reiterate that pledge.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  70/1),  adopted  unanimously  last  Friday 
by  the  General  Assembly,  is  a  manifestation  of  the 
16/23 
15-29595
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.18
Australia  Pledge  and  a  testament  to  the  fundamental 
role of the Organization. Only the United Nations could 
have produced this remarkable result. The Sustainable 
Development  Goals  are  necessarily  ambitious.  Let  us 
consider  just  the  first  five:  to  end  extreme  poverty 
everywhere; to end hunger; to ensure quality education; 
to ensure healthy lives; and to achieve gender equality. 
Should we realize all 17 Goals, we will transform our 
world for the betterment of humankind.
We  must  ensure  that  the  remarkable  spirit  of 
cooperation displayed during the negotiation process is 
maintained  as  we  work  to  turn  these  ambitious  goals 
into reality. The 2030 Agenda recognizes that economic 
growth,  including  through  private-sector  investment 
and  trade,  is  central  to  sustainable  development. 
The  2030  Agenda  also  recognizes  that  while  official 
development  assistance  remains  important,  it  is  only 
one  source  of  financing  for  development.  The  2030 
Agenda affirms that it is the quality of assistance that 
matters, and that true partnerships for development are 
essential,  based  on  respect  and  cooperation.  That  is 
what  Australia  seeks  to  achieve  with  our  friends  and 
neighbours in the Pacific.
Climate  change  is  a  challenge  for  all  nations 
and  decisive  action  is  required.  We  will  succeed  in 
reducing global emissions only if there is engagement 
by the entire United Nations membership. Australia has 
announced  a  strong,  responsible  and  achievable  post-
2020  contribution  to  international  climate  action.  We 
are committed to ensuring the United Nations Climate 
Conference in Paris at the end of the year is the platform 
needed to secure a collective approach to the below 2° 
goal.
There is an inescapable truth. We cannot transform 
our  world  unless  the  place  of  women  within  it  is 
transformed. The 2030 Agenda requires us to achieve 
nothing  less  than  full  gender  equality.  This  is  not 
just  the  right  thing  to  do;  it  is  the  smart  thing  to  do. 
It  is  essential  to  achieve  sustainable,  inclusive  and 
equitable economic growth. Australia has established a 
$50 million gender equality fund to accelerate support 
for  gender  equality  in  our  development  programme 
delivered in our region, the Indian Ocean/Asia-Pacific.
We must step up the fight against the global scourge 
of violence against women and girls.
Last  week  the  Australian  Government  announced 
a  new  domestic  policy,  a  $100  million  women’s 
safety  package,  improving  front-line  support  services 
and  providing  educational  resources  to  help  change 
community attitudes to violence and abuse. Similarly, 
our  overseas  aid  programme  helps  countries  in  our 
region in efforts to eliminate violence against women 
and  girls.  The  United  Nations  women,  peace  and 
security agenda has changed our collective thinking on 
the  role  of  women  in  conflict.  We  now  need  to  put  it 
into practice. That is why Australia has worked with the 
United States to produce the first military commanders’ 
guide for implementing women, peace and security in 
the field.
development.  Human 
A key element of the 2030 Agenda is that peaceful 
and  inclusive  societies  are  essential  to  achieving 
sustainable 
good 
governance  and  open  and  inclusive  institutions  are 
crucial  foundations  for  development.  Human  rights 
have been at the very centre of the United Nations over 
the past 70 years, from the United Nations Charter in 
1945 to the Sustainable Development Goals in 2015.
rights, 
With  the  rise  of  terrorist  groups  like  Daesh,  the 
continuing depredations of the North Korean regime, and 
the persistence of forced labour and other contemporary 
forms  of  slavery,  the  need  for  the  United  Nations  to 
prosecute a strong human rights agenda has never been 
more pressing or urgent. Australia is standing for a seat 
on  the  United  Nations  Human  Rights  Council  for  the 
2018-2020 term. This is the first time that my country 
has sought election to that body. I believe that Australia 
would  bring  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  the  same 
principled  and  practical  approach  that  distinguished 
our  2013-2014  Security  Council  term.  Should  we  be 
elected,  our  focus  would  be  on  empowering  women 
and  girls,  strengthening  governance  and  democratic 
institutions,  promoting  freedom  of  expression  and 
advancing human rights for all.
Australia  would  be  at  the  forefront  of  efforts  to 
hold  to  account  those  responsible  for  human  rights 
abuses  and  to  build  more  effective  preventative  and 
accountability  measures.  We  would  be  unrelenting  in 
our  efforts  to  secure  abolition  of  the  death  penalty. 
Our term on the Human Rights Council would reflect 
Australia’s inclusive, diverse society and build on the 
Australian Government’s strong domestic human rights 
agenda.
There are nations for which the aspirations of the 
2030 Agenda, indeed the promises of the United Nations 
Charter,  appear  remote  or  unachievable.  The  scourge 
of  war  continues  to  tear  apart  families,  communities, 
countries  and  entire  regions.  As  a  non-permanent 
15-29595
17/23
A/70/PV.18 
29/09/2015
member of the Security Council, we experienced first-
hand the difficulties the Council faces in responding to 
the crises and conflicts in Syria, Iraq, Libya, Yemen, 
South  Sudan,  the  Central  African  Republic  and  Mali. 
Nowhere  is  the  devastation  greater  than  in  Iraq  and 
Syria. Daesh is wreaking unspeakable havoc and harm 
on individuals, families and communities and destroying 
the  world’s  cultural  heritage  in  gross  violation  of 
international law and against the fundamental concepts 
of morality. It cannot be allowed to prevail.
Australia  is  participating  in  coalition  military 
action  to  combat  Daesh  in  Iraq  and  Syria.  We  are 
doing  so  within  the  framework  of  the  Charter  and  in 
a manner consistent with international law. Defeating 
Daesh  requires  both  military  and  political  action. 
Reconciliation  and  inclusive  governance  in  Iraq  are 
the  key  to  reducing  Daesh’s  appeal  and  support.  We 
continue to advocate a political solution that can bring 
an end to the conflict in Syria and we support United 
Nations Envoy Staffan de Mistura’s efforts towards that 
end.
We  do  not  believe  any  transition  option  should 
be  rejected.  All  permutations  of  a  political  solution 
should be assessed with clear-eyed realism. Australia is 
committed to defeating terrorism in all its forms. We are 
responding to the challenges of violent extremism and 
foreign  terrorist  fighters,  taking  on  those  who  would 
exploit  our  openness  and  modern  communications  to 
commit violence and promote terror. The humanitarian 
consequences  of  the  conflicts  in  Syria  and  Iraq  are 
devastating. 
I  commend  neighbouring  countries 
Jordan,  Lebanon,  Turkey,  which  continue  to  bear  the 
brunt of the population of displaced persons. Australia 
has  provided  $230  million  in  humanitarian  assistance 
since the start of the conflict.
The massive flows of displaced people across the 
Middle  East  and  into  Europe  have  stretched  response 
capacities  to  a  breaking  point.  In  this  environment, 
people  smugglers  will  strive  to  prosper  from  their 
dangerous and criminal trade. Australia’s firm response 
to  people  smuggling,  and  continued  cooperation  with 
its regional partners, have saved the lives of thousands 
who  would  otherwise  have  succumbed  to  the  false 
promises of people smugglers. It has also enabled us to 
give refuge to those most in need. Consistent with our 
record over decades of resettling permanently thousands 
of refugees, Australia was pleased to announce recently 
that  we  would  resettle  permanently  an  additional 
12,000 refugees from Syria and Iraq — registered by 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees  —  particularly  those  who  are  unlikely 
to  have  a  home  to  which  they  might  return.  We  also 
announced $44 million in funding to support 240,000 
displaced persons on the borders.
The  global  humanitarian  system  is  struggling 
to  cope  with  the  escalating  demands.  The  World 
Humanitarian  Summit  in  May  next  year  must  deliver 
a  nimble  humanitarian  system  which  responds  to 
different  types  of  humanitarian  crises  in  the  most 
effective fashion. The only long-term solution to these 
man-made  crises  is  a  political  one  —  to  bring  these 
conflicts to an end.
Australia’s recent experience as a Security Council 
member  confirmed  that  the  Council’s  role  is  more 
essential than ever. The Security Council can perform 
its  role  only  if  it  has  the  tools  it  needs.  The  role  of 
peacekeeping  is  fundamental.  Yesterday,  I  joined 
others in pledging renewed operational support for the 
United Nations peacekeeping system. Australian airlift 
was  vital  to  the  United  Nations  early  response  to  the 
South  Sudan  crisis.  We  have  now  pledged  to  provide 
our C-17 Globemasters and C-130 Hercules aircraft to 
help  United  Nations  peacekeepers  respond  to  crises 
where and whenever we can in the future.
We recognize that the United Nations needs more 
tools  for  peacebuilding  to  help  vulnerable  States 
emerge  from  crises  and  prevent  them  from  falling 
back  into  violence  and  disorder.  Australia  is  looking 
forward  to  co-chairing  with  Angola  the  consultations 
on the peacebuilding architecture review later this year. 
We need to strengthen this crucial element of conflict 
prevention.
Another central lesson from Australia’s term on the 
Council was that accountability is crucial in preventing 
cycles  of  violence.  The  International  Criminal  Court 
has  a  critical  role  to  play  and  requires  our  support. 
Australia remains determined to hold to account those 
responsible for the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 
MH-17 in July 2014. We owe nothing less to the families 
of  those  aboard  that  fateful  flight.  We  will  not  let  a 
Russian veto impede the efforts of countries grieving 
the loss of their citizens and demanding justice for the 
perpetrators of this atrocity.
All  States  must  uphold  their  responsibility  to 
protect  civilians  from  the  most  serious  international 
crimes.  Security  Council  members  have  a  particular 
responsibility  to  do  so.  In  that  context,  we  welcome 
18/23 
15-29595
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.18
proposals  to  restrain  use  of  the  veto  where  mass 
atrocity crimes are being committed. Australia’s term 
on the Security Council in 2013-2014 demonstrated that 
elected  members  can  play  an  active  and  constructive 
role. I am therefore pleased to announce that Australia 
is nominating itself to serve again on the Council for 
the 2029-2030 term.
We do not underestimate the challenges facing all of 
us. Equally we should not downplay the opportunities. 
We  remain  confident  that  working  together  we  can 
realize  the  enduring  promise  of  the  Charter  —  for 
Australians,  for  our  region,  and  for  the  international 
community.  And  now  70  years  on,  the  General 
Assembly is indeed the place where the conscience of 
the peoples of the world has its most potent expression.
on 
Mr.  Philip  Hammond,  Secretary  of  State  for  Foreign 
and Commonwealth Affairs of the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
The  Acting  President: 
I 
now 
call 
Mr. Hammond (United Kingdom): Nearly 70 years 
ago, the first meetings of the General Assembly and the 
Security Council took place in London. They marked 
the point when the world came together to turn its back 
on war and to seek to institutionalize the conditions for 
peace.  By  that  process,  from  the  ashes  of  the  Second 
World War, our predecessors embarked upon a shared 
quest for peace, development and human dignity.
And they succeeded where the League of Nations 
had  failed.  From  51  Members  at  its  inception  to  193 
now,  the  United  Nations  has  become  a  powerful  and 
universally recognized expression of our collective will 
to find solutions to the most difficult challenges we face. 
It  is  the  cornerstone  of  the  rules-based  international 
system  and  an  affirmation  of  the  value  we  attach  to 
human dignity and hope.
Britain is proud to have played its role in the birth 
of the Organization. And proud too, 70 years later, of 
the  active  role  we  play  in  international  affairs  as  the 
only Security Council member, indeed the only major 
economy in the world, that both meets the NATO 2 per 
cent target for defence spending and the United Nations 
0.7 per cent target for development spending.
But seven decades on, the daily reality for millions 
of  people  is  a  very  far  cry  from  the  ideals  set  out  in 
the Charter of the United Nations. Despite the historic 
work  delivered  under  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, more than a billion people still live on less than 
$1.25 a day. Insecurity, extremism and conflict in the 
Middle East have driven millions of people to abandon 
their homes, creating a humanitarian emergency on an 
unprecedented scale. And many millions more still live 
under  regimes  in  which  they  have  no  say  about  how 
they  are  governed,  and  in  which  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms are denied.
At  the  same  time,  the  rules-based  international 
system  that  keeps  the  peace  between  nations  is  being 
undermined by States willing to violate the territorial 
integrity of others or to breach the most fundamental 
prohibitions  on  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  And 
alongside  these  challenges,  we  face  the  longer  term 
threats  of  climate  change,  global  pandemics  and 
anti-microbial resistance — threats that we must tackle 
effectively now, if we are not to put the lives of future 
generations at risk.
But it is in Syria and Iraq, in the crucible of human 
civilization, that our collective values and our will to 
act  are  being  most  immediately  challenged.  The  twin 
evils of Al-Assad’s murderous regime and the brutality 
of  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL)  or 
Daesh, have inflicted suffering on the Syrian people on 
an almost unimaginable scale. The humanitarian crisis, 
the tide of refugees seeking sanctuary in neighbouring 
countries and in Europe, underscore the urgent need to 
end the conflict and represent huge tests of our resolve.
I want to pay tribute to the extraordinary generosity 
of  Turkey,  Lebanon  and  Jordan,  which  have  given  a 
temporary  home  to  many  millions  of  refugees  and 
which  have  accepted  this  role  stoically  for  years.  It 
is  incumbent  upon  all  of  us  to  support  them  as  they 
bear that burden, and to ensure that the United Nations 
appeals  for  Syria  are  fully  funded.  And  I  am  proud 
that the United Kingdom is making the second-largest 
contribution of any country to the humanitarian mission 
in the region.
We judge it important that we seek to support those 
who  have  been  displaced  as  close  as  possible  to  their 
homes.  Because  there  will  be  a  new  Syria  to  build, 
post-Al-Assad, and that country will need to draw on 
the talent of all the Syrian people. But a humanitarian 
response alone is not adequate. We share a responsibility 
to act to end the bloody civil war and create an inclusive 
political  process,  and  to  work  together  to  crush  ISIL 
and  banish  its  twisted  ideology  from  the  face  of  the 
Earth.  The  United  Kingdom  will  continue  to  be  a 
leading  member  of  the  international  coalition  against 
ISIL, including in carrying out more air strikes in Iraq 
than any other country except the United States, for as 
15-29595
19/23
A/70/PV.18 
29/09/2015
long  as  it  takes  to  prevail  in  what  will  ultimately  be 
a  generational  struggle  against  the  Islamist  extremist 
ideology that drives it.
But  the  defeat  of  ISIL  on  its  own  will  not  bring 
peace to Syria. An inclusive political settlement is the 
only sustainable way to end the suffering of the Syrian 
people. We must redouble our efforts to build a political 
process  under  Special  Envoy  Staffan  de  Mistura,  and 
to  hold  to  account  those  who  have  committed  crimes 
during the conflict. Positive movement on this agenda 
is  a  crucial  test  for  the  United  Nations.  Progress  at 
the  Security  Council  has  been  blocked  for  too  long. 
All  parties  must  now  put  narrow  interests  aside  and 
cooperate  for  the  good  of  the  Syrian  people  and  to 
reassert the values of this Organization.
Urgent though the crisis in Syria is — and to that we 
could add the crises in Yemen, Somalia and Libya — we 
cannot  neglect  the  need  to  act  now  to  prevent  future 
threats to global security from arising. But that collective 
action will truly work only if we have a shared analysis 
of the real causes of poverty, injustice, and the conflict 
that feeds upon it. We need a common recognition that 
strong,  transparent  and  effective  institutions,  open 
economies  and  open  societies,  the  rule  of  law,  and 
freedom  from  corruption  are  the  conditions  that  will 
allow development to flourish over the long term and so 
reduce the drivers that fuel conflict. They provide what 
Prime Minister David Cameron has called “the golden 
thread of development” and they are vital to the success 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Each  country 
must, of course, follow its own path to prosperity. But 
as  we  help  the  poorest  countries  overcome  conflict, 
poverty and instability and to move up the development 
curve, it is in all our interests that that development be 
sustainable over the long term.
And the foundation for all sustainable development 
is  security.  As  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council,  the  United  Kingdom  places  security  as  the 
prerequisite  to  good  governance,  strong  institutions 
and economic development at the core of its approach. 
So, as the Prime Minister pledged yesterday, the United 
Kingdom  will  resume  a  significant  role  in  enabling 
peacekeeping  operations,  particularly 
in  Africa, 
where the United Kingdom will support efforts by the 
United Nations and the African Union to end some of 
the world’s most destabilizing conflicts, conflicts that 
are  prompting  mass  migration  from  South  Sudan  and 
sustaining terrorist groups in Somalia.
But 
there 
is 
truth 
another 
important 
to 
understand — security within countries can deliver the 
benefits  of  economic  growth  only  if  it  is  matched  by 
security among countries. Britain has always believed 
that the stability we seek in relations between nations 
is best realized through the framework of laws, norms 
and  institutions  that  together  constitute  the  rules-
based  international  system  that  was  developed  after 
the Second World War, with the Charter of the United 
Nations at its heart.
territorial 
Fundamental to that system is the fact that States 
integrity 
should  respect  one  another’s 
and  political  independence.  When  States  challenge 
those rules, all of us have a duty to come swiftly and 
unambiguously  to  the  defence  of  the  victims.  That  is 
why we stand shoulder to shoulder with the Ukrainian 
people.  Illegal  actions  and  State  aggression  must 
have  consequences,  or  the  international  order  will  be 
fatally  undermined.  We,  the  United  Nations,  insist 
that  differences  and  disputes  be  resolved  within  the 
framework of international law, not outside it.
The collective will to tackle threats to our security 
must  be  extended  to  the  threat  we  face  from  climate 
change. It represents not just a threat to the environment 
and to our prosperity, but to our security too. The impact 
of rising sea levels and rising global temperatures will 
be felt by all of us, but it will hit hardest many of the 
poorest countries and those who are least able to adapt. 
So the United Kingdom will not only cut its emissions 
at  home  but,  as  our  Prime  Minister  announced  on 
Monday,  also  increase  its  support  to  climate  finance 
for  vulnerable  countries  to  $9  billion  over  the  next 
five  years.  We  must  work  for  a  strong  and  effective 
deal at the Conference of Parties to the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  in  Paris 
in  December,  built  upon  clear  commitments  from  all 
nations  to  lower  emissions  targets  still  further,  and  a 
collective commitment to maintain the goal of limiting 
global warming to two degrees.
Seventy years after the first session of the General 
Assembly,  the  United  Nations  stands  battered  by  the 
waves  of  international  crises  but  unbowed,  proudly 
at  the  heart  of  the  international  order.  Over  seven 
decades,  it  has  played  a  critical  role  in  addressing 
almost every challenge we have faced. And crucial to 
its future success will be further evolution, embracing 
change, and maintaining relevance in this twenty-first 
century.  The  United  Nations  must  strive  to  represent 
the new realities of our age with a reformed Security 
20/23 
15-29595
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.18
Council.  It  must  have  the  best  possible  leadership, 
with  a  transparent  system  for  selecting  the  next 
Secretary-General. And he — or dare I suggest perhaps 
she? — will have to head a more efficient Organization 
ensuring  that  every  cent  it  receives  from  its  Member 
States is used to maximum effect.
As a founding Member of the United Nations, and 
as  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council,  the 
United  Kingdom  will  champion  that  reform  agenda, 
and  we  will  continue  to  promote  the  ideals  that  the 
United  Nations  represents.  Seventy  years  ago,  a 
generation resolved to shape their world on a vision for 
peace, security and universal values. Today, realizing 
that  vision  in  its  totality  still  eludes  us,  but  we  have 
demonstrated that when we work together collectively 
we can take great strides towards it. Now we must resolve 
to demonstrate that collective will; to recognize that it 
is not only our moral duty, but also in the enlightened 
national interests of all of us to act; to respond to the 
grave humanitarian crises we face; to tackle the causes 
of conflict, poverty and instability; and to uphold the 
rules-based international system.
The  world  is  a  better  place  because  of  the 
foundation of the United Nations by our predecessors 
70 years ago. By holding firm to our ideals as United 
Nations Members in the face of all challenges and all 
temptations, we will preserve their legacy and continue 
to  build  the  foundations  for  a  better  age,  an  age  of 
peace, hope and dignity for all.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Hamadi Ould Meimou, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Mauritania.
Mr. Meimou (Mauritania) (spoke in Arabic): It is an 
honour for me to deliver the statement of the President 
of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, His Excellency 
Mr.  Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz,  and  to  speak  on  his 
behalf.
“It gives me pleasure, on behalf of the Islamic 
Republic of Mauritania, to extend to Mr. Mogens 
Lykketoft  our  warm  congratulations  and  best 
wishes on his election as President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session.  I  am  fully 
confident  that  his  statesmanship,  skills  and  long-
standing  experience  is  our  best  guarantee  of 
success at this session.
“I should also like to express profound thanks 
to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his great and 
tireless efforts in the service of international peace 
and security and for his promotion of dialogue as 
an  optimum  means  for  addressing  current  global 
issues.
“Today, we meet 70 years after the establishment 
of our great Organization, and those seven decades 
have  been  spent  in  unabated  pursuit  of  the  noble 
goals  for  which  it  was  founded.  We  should 
congratulate  ourselves  on  the  achievements  of 
this  eventful  history,  without  overlooking  the 
tremendous challenges facing the world in the areas 
of peace, security and sustainable development. It 
is our hope that the post-2015 development agenda 
will  effectively  address  all 
those  challenges. 
Moreover, we should all work within the framework 
of  the  United  Nations  system  to  alleviate  the 
burden of foreign debt under which many countries 
suffer, which impedes their economic growth and 
jeopardizes their stability and social peace.
“We in the Islamic Republic of Mauritania work 
tirelessly for the welfare for our people through a 
range  of  development  projects  undertaken  by  the 
State, in cooperation with the private sector and our 
development partners. Over the past few years, our 
country has obtained remarkable results that have 
had a positive impact on Mauritanians’ standard of 
living. Unemployment has been curtailed, and we 
have widened the base for accessing and improving 
basic services so as to achieve concrete economic 
growth.  In  the  area  of  promoting  the  rule  of  law, 
the  Government  of  Mauritania  has  worked  to 
strengthen  the  judiciary  system  and  promote  its 
independence  so  as  to  ensure  that  transparency 
prevails throughout public affairs.
“In  recognition  of  the  organic  nexus  between 
security  and  development,  my  country  has  made 
security  and  development  top  national  priorities 
and is working to build a modern republican army 
equipped with every means to ensure the country’s 
territorial 
implemented  a 
multitude  of  projects  in  the  most  impoverished 
regions  and  provided  welfare  for  vulnerable 
groups.  This  policy  has  had  a  positive  impact  on 
the  security  of  our  homeland  and  its  citizens  and 
bolstered the pillars of social peace.
integrity.  We  have 
“Our security development approach does not 
stop there; we have also worked to promote the culture 
of dialogue and peaceful debate with all those who 
go astray by misinterpreting and misunderstanding 
the purposes of our Islamic religion and have fallen 
15-29595
21/23
A/70/PV.18 
29/09/2015
into  extremism  and  fundamentalism.  They  have 
therefore  been  engaged  by  our  clergy,  under  the 
supervision  of  the  Government  —  an  approach 
that has yielded concrete results. In order to raise 
awareness  of  the  benefits  of  that  dialogue,  we 
hosted  an  international  seminar  under  the  theme 
“Culture  of  peace  and  moderation”  in  order  to 
tackle extremism. The Mauritanian experiment is 
a good example to follow.
“Our  region,  the  African  Sahel,  has  been 
exposed over the past few years to a proliferation of 
networks of organized crime. Drugs, weapons and 
human beings are trafficked and smuggled through 
waves  of  illicit  migration  and  hostage-taking; 
extremist organizations have also adopted terrorism 
as  a  profession  and  thereby  endanger  security 
throughout the region.
“In order to address and face these challenges, 
Mauritania has worked with its brotherly States of 
Chad, the Niger, Mali and Burkina Faso to establish 
the  group  of  five  Sahel  States  with  a  view  to 
designing a development and security framework as 
a platform for coordinating the resources of member 
countries in order to promote security and stability 
and to work to achieve sustainable development, as 
envisioned in the post-2015 agenda. In this regard, 
we appreciate the appointment of a Special Envoy 
of  the  Secretary-General  for  the  Sahel,  entrusted 
with  dealing  with  regional  issues.  That  augurs 
well for good cooperation among the group of five 
Sahel  States  and  the  international  community  in 
countering  terrorism  amd  organized  crime  and 
drafting  rules  for  sound  and  effective  sustainable 
development.
“Recognizing  the  importance  of  maintaining 
the  Islamic 
international  peace  and  security, 
Republic of Mauritania has taken the initiative to 
coordinate with the United Nations by participating 
in  its  peacekeeping  operations.  We  contributed  a 
unit of national guards that is deployed in the city 
of Bouaké in the sister State of Côte d’Ivoire. We 
are also preparing to dispatch an infantry battalion 
of  450  troops  and  a  national  gendarmes  unit  of 
140 officers in order to contribute to establishing 
peace in the Central African Republic. That is our 
response to the call of duty towards our brotherly 
African countries in support of peace and security 
in our continent.
“The Islamic Republic of Mauritania is following 
with  grave  concern  the  serious  developments 
in  sisterly  Yemen.  In  this  regard,  we  support 
Operation  Restoring  Hope  and  the  tremendous 
efforts  undertaken  by  the  Arab  coalition  led 
by  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  to  restore  the 
legitimate  system  of  Government 
to  sisterly 
Yemen, represented by brother President Abdrabuh 
Mansour  Hadi  Mansour  and  his  Government, 
and  to  implement  all  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions. We hope that the efforts of the Special 
Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General  for  Yemen  to 
solidify peace and security in this sisterly country 
will be crowned with success.
“On  the  other  hand,  the  ongoing  war  and 
massive  destruction,  killing  and  displacement  of 
millions  in  Syria  require  us  all  to  support  every 
effort  to  bring  the  Syrian  parties  together  at  the 
negotiating table in order to find a political solution 
to  that  war,  which  has  been  raging  far  too  long. 
This solution, we hope, will save Syria from further 
destruction and maintain its territorial integrity.
“In the same vein, we call on our brothers in 
Libya  to  agree  to  a  political  solution  culminating 
in  the  formation  of  a  national  Government  that 
would organize fair and transparent elections to put 
an end to the internecine hostilities that have torn 
Libya asunder and made it a sanctuary for extremist 
organizations.  We  trust  that  the  patriotic  spirit  of 
the Libyan people and its leaders will move them 
in that direction so that a State can be established 
under  the  rule  of  law  and  the  Libyan  people  can 
enjoy peace and security.
“The Arab-Israeli conflict remains a source of 
animosity  and  a  threat  to  international  peace  and 
security in a region that is very sensitive and vital 
to the entire world. Despite the multitude of United 
Nations  resolutions  and  negotiations  that  have 
dragged on for decades, the two parties have failed 
to reach a formula for a final resolution that would 
guarantee  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  in 
an  independent  State,  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
its  capital.  We  condemn  settlement  activity  and 
unilateral  actions  that  impede  the  peace  process. 
We also condemn the unjust siege imposed on the 
Gaza  strip,  with  all  its  dire  consequences  for  the 
brotherly Palestinian people.
22/23 
15-29595
29/09/2015 
A/70/PV.18
“Our continent of Africa faces a multitude of 
challenges  in  the  economic  and  security  spheres. 
The many development programmes that have been 
implemented  with  our  development  partners  have 
not  achieved  the  envisaged  goals,  though  some 
measure of success has been registered. Problems 
relating to poverty, disease and malnutrition persist 
and deplete many resources of African countries.
“The  outbreak  and  spread  of 
the  Ebola 
virus  disease  in  some  West  African  countries 
highlighted  the  severe  shortcomings  in  the  area 
of  fighting  epidemics  and  disease.  Despite  the 
fortitude demonstrated by those countries and the 
generous  assistance  of  African  countries  and  the 
international community, which stopped the spread 
of the disease, there is a pressing need to establish 
a well-developed and integrated health-care system 
that  would  protect  citizens  from  diseases  and 
lethal epidemics. There are also many flashpoints 
of  conflict  that  impede  the  development  of  the 
continent and strain its resources. Despite all these 
challenges,  many  African  countries  succeeded  in 
achieving  many  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals and are now resolved to implement the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution 
70/1).
“Africa, with its enormous economic resources 
and  its  demographic  weight,  deserves  to  enjoy  a 
permanent seat on the Security Council. From this 
rostrum, we demand that this reform be undertaken 
as expeditiously as possible.
“Perhaps  the  most  viable  path  to  achieving 
peace  and  security  is  to  promote  the  culture  of 
peace  and  the  values  of  tolerance  among  nations, 
peoples  and  civilizations  and  to  uphold  justice 
for all. Leaving issues unresolved for a long time 
without  any  prospect  of  a  solution,  as  well  as  the 
widening  gap  between  the  poor  and  the  rich  and 
the imbalance in global economic structures, have 
contributed to increased tension and the spread of 
the phenomenon of extremism and terrorism.
“We  in  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania 
reject all forms of terrorism, while firmly abiding 
by tolerant Islamic values that renounce violence, 
extremism  and  excess.  Islamic  values  call  for 
tolerance and brotherhood, and it is our belief that 
it is the duty of the international community to find 
an effective means to halt the tide of terrorism at its 
roots and dry up its sources.
“The  pledges  undertaken  by  the  international 
community at the birth of the Organization will not 
be fully met unless and until a minimum level of 
justice in the production and distribution of wealth 
is  achieved.  Furthermore,  we  will  not  come  full 
circle  in  delivering  on  the  noble  aspirations  for 
which  the  United  Nations  was  founded  without 
creating conditions in which human beings can live 
in dignity, freedom and equality. By those means, 
we  could  achieve  the  noble  goals  for  which  the 
United Nations was established.”
The meeting rose at 8.45 p.m.
15-29595
23/23
