United Nations
General Assembly
Seventieth session
20th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 30 September 2015, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/70/PV.20
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lykketoft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Denmark)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  González 
Franco (Paraguay), Vice-President, took the Chair.
community  in  support  of  this  principle  has  been  of 
great importance to us.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Address by Mr. Raimonds Vējonis, President of the 
Republic of Latvia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Latvia.
Mr.  Raimonds  Vējonis,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Latvia, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Raimonds 
Vējonis,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Latvia,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Vējonis: As we celebrate 70 years of the 
United Nations and 70 years since the end of the Second 
World War, it is time for us all to take stock. What has 
been  achieved?  Where  have  we  failed?  What  is  there 
yet to do to create a safer and better world?
In  July,  we  marked  the  seventy-fifth  anniversary 
since the Sumner Welles Declaration on the non-recognition 
policy  of  the  illegal  Soviet  annexation  of  the  Baltic 
States.  This  policy  reflected  the  principle,  based  on 
international  law,  that  the  change  of  borders  by  force 
is not acceptable. The firm stance of the international 
Since  its  completion  in  San  Francisco  in  1945, 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  has  embodied  the 
core  principles  of  the  international  system.  However, 
far  too  often  international  order  and  principles  have 
been violated and the United Nations has been unable 
to  prevent  conflicts  or  build  peace  or  stop  atrocities. 
Past failures must be lessons for the future. The United 
Nations,  and  in  particular  the  Security  Council,  must 
be  able  to  implement  the  mission  set  by  the  Charter 
with a renewed sense of responsibility.
It  is  time  to  move  forward  with  Security  Council 
reform.  We  applaud  efforts  to  revive  negotiations  on 
this important issue. Latvia supports the expansion of 
the Security Council in both categories of membership. 
At  least  one  additional  non-permanent  seat  should  be 
ensured for the Eastern European States. Early action 
of the United Nations in situations of concern is crucial. 
Latvia supports the proposal to voluntarily restrain the 
use  of  the  veto  in  the  Security  Council  in  situations 
involving mass atrocity crimes. It also supports, for all 
members of the Council, adherence to a code of conduct 
that  would  suspend  their  right  to  veto  any  action 
designed to end and prevent mass atrocity crimes.
On  several  crucial  occasions  in  recent  times, 
the  Security  Council  was  not  able  to  take  timely  and 
decisive  action.  That  has  had  dire  consequences.  The 
Security  Council  was  blocked  from  playing  a  role  in 
stopping  Russia’s  aggression  against  Ukraine  and  in 
seeking justice for the victims of the Flight MH-17 in 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
15-29568 (E)
*1529568*
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
an international tribunal that could establish the truth 
on who shot down that civilian aeroplane. The conflict 
in eastern Ukraine has cost thousands of lives and led 
to the suffering of millions of innocent victims. Russia 
must stop all forms of support to separatists and use its 
influence to make them adhere to the Minsk agreements. 
Full  implementation  of  the  Minsk  agreements  by  all 
parties is essential.
The international community, including the General 
Assembly, supports Ukraine and its territorial integrity. 
The  illegal  annexation  of  Crimea  and  Sevastopol  by 
Russia  will  not  be  recognized.  We  are  particularly 
concerned  about  the  worsening  social,  economic  and 
human rights situation in Crimea, especially affecting 
Crimean  Tatars  and  ethnic  Ukrainians.  Together 
with  the  rest  of  the  international  community,  Latvia 
will  continue  to  support  Ukraine’s  reform  process  in 
order to strengthen its democracy, economy and good 
governance.
The  horrific  conflict  in  Syria  has  entered  its 
fifth  year.  It  has  created  a  humanitarian  catastrophe 
and  destabilized  the  whole  region.  The  international 
community must not abandon the people of Syria and 
must push for a political settlement. Those responsible 
for using internationally prohibited chemical weapons 
in Syria must be identified and held accountable. The 
conflict and fragility of Syria and Iraq have contributed 
to the rise of the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant/
Daesh  and  the  violent  extremism  spreading  globally. 
Concerted international action is vital to defeat this evil 
and  is  key  to  achieving  lasting  peace  and  stability  in 
Syria, Iraq and the wider region.
Latvia welcomes the recent nuclear agreement with 
Iran. The full and smooth implementation of the Joint 
Comprehensive  Action  Plan  is  now  necessary.  Only 
then  can  a  change  in  the  regional  dynamics  towards 
more  engagement  and  cooperation,  as  well  as  greater 
stability in the Middle East region, become a reality.
It  is  commendable  that,  despite  all  the  existing 
challenges, the Government of Afghanistan has shown 
its commitment to the democratic process. Sustainable 
peace and stability in the country can be achieved only 
with  continued  strong  commitment  from  the  Afghan 
side and further international support.
The resolution of protracted conflicts in Transnistria,
Abkhazia, South Ossetia and Nagorno Karabakh should 
remain on the international agenda.
Increased  migration  from  conflict-torn  Middle 
East  and  African  countries  to  Europe  has  become 
one  of 
the  greatest  humanitarian  challenges  of 
our  time.  Migration  challenges  also  persist  in  the 
Asia-Pacific  region  and  in  the  Americas.  Beyond 
immediate humanitarian responses, the new trends of 
migration  and  forced  displacement  require  long-term, 
comprehensive solutions. The stabilization of political, 
economic and social situations in the European Union’s 
neighbourhoods must be the ultimate goal. At the same 
time,  a  greater  focus  should  be  put  on  addressing  the 
root causes of increased illegal migration, including by 
strengthening conflict prevention capabilities.
Latvia  welcomes  the  ongoing  United  Nations 
review  of  peacekeeping.  Cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and regional organizations is essential to 
effectively  fulfil  peacekeeping  mandates.  Operational 
tasks need to be effectively synchronized between all 
involved parties. The European Union is an important 
partner  of  the  United  Nations,  as  demonstrated  in 
the  Central  African  Republic,  Mali  and  other  places. 
Latvia  provides  a  voluntary  contribution  to  United 
Nations peacekeeping and intends, for the first time, to 
participate in a United Nations peacekeeping mission.
International  commitment  to  protect  populations 
from atrocity crimes has been greatly strengthened in 
the past 10 years. Latvia strongly supports the work of 
the International Criminal Court as the legal arm of the 
responsibility to protect and hopes for swift activation 
of the Kampala amendments to the Rome Statute on the 
crime of aggression.
This year the international community will conclude 
two of the most important international processes of our 
times. We have just adopted the ambitious 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  (resolution  70/1)  for  the 
next 15 years. The Sustainable Development Goals must 
drive us to make real changes to end poverty and build 
prosperity and equality for all. With well-thought-out, 
focused and action-oriented policies we can do it. But 
most  importantly,  the  involvement  and  accountability 
of  all  stakeholders  at  all  levels  will  be  critical  to  the 
success of the Sustainable Development Goals.
These  Goals  will  be  greatly  reinforced  by  the 
approval  of  a  new  universal  agreement  to  address 
climate change at the Conference of the Parties to the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change,  to  be  held  in  Paris.  Failure  to  undertake 
ambitious mitigation actions cannot be accepted. Any 
2/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
further postponement will make adaptation extremely 
costly or even unfeasible. Latvia supports the reduction 
of  greenhouse  gas  emissions.  It  is  also  important  to 
send  a  strong  signal  to  investors  and  business  of  the 
plans to move towards a low-carbon, climate-resilient 
world.
The  United  Nations  has  played  a  crucial  role  in 
advancing  economic  and  social  development  and 
human  rights  for  everyone.  These  ideals  and  values 
have proven to be timeless and universal. The United 
Nations will continue to be an important forum in the 
quest for solutions to future challenges through global 
discussion,  raising  awareness,  creating  expertise  and 
building  trust.  At  the  forefront  of  these  issues  is  the 
speed  at  which  technology  is  evolving.  Technological 
development  is  a  source  of  progress  and  growth.  At 
the  same  time,  the  rapid  advancement  of  technology 
has exposed significant vulnerabilities and a variety of 
issues of transnational and cross-sectoral nature.
Nations  are  facing  an  increasing  challenge  in 
countering cyberthreats. Efforts to prevent the misuse 
of  new  technologies,  either  by  State  or  non-State 
actors, should be cooperative, international and cross-
sectoral  and  involve  all  stakeholders.  This  will  not 
be  an  easy  process.  We  need  to  safeguard  the  right 
balance  between  fostering  freedom  of  expression  and 
open  innovation  on  the  Internet  and  ensuring  that 
legitimate  national  security  concerns  are  taken  into 
account. This year, the General Assembly will review 
the results of the implementation of the World Summit 
on the Information Society over the past 10 years. It is 
important that this review process, in which Latvia is 
playing a leading role, be successful and contribute to 
the achievement of the overall United Nations goals set 
forth in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Next  year,  we  shall  have  to  choose  the  next 
Secretary-General.  It  is  important  that  the  selection 
process be transparent and inclusive. Furthermore, it is 
high time for the Eastern European Group of States to 
provide the best possible candidate for the post of the 
next  Secretary-General.  It  is  the  only  regional  group 
that has never been represented in this position.
The  people  of  our  nations  want  to  live  in  a  safe, 
stable  and  prosperous  world  where  conflicts,  hunger 
and inequalities do not exist. In order to succeed in the 
task  of  implementing  the  new  development  Agenda, 
we  all  have  the  obligation  to  work  to  make  the  world 
a better place. Our responsibility is to ensure that the 
road ahead is built on the goals that were laid down in 
the Charter 70 years ago and which remain valid today 
and in the future.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Latvia for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Raimonds  Vējonis,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Latvia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by the Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of 
the Republic of Serbia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Serbia.
Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of the Republic of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Tomislav 
Nikolić,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Serbia,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Nikolić  (spoke  in  Serbian;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  Seventy 
years have passed since the establishment of the United 
Nations.  People  live  differently  now;  many  changes 
have taken place and many reforms have been effected. 
It is time that we reform the United Nations as well. I 
call on the President to speed up this process during his 
mandate.
Perhaps  no  other  session  in  the  history  of  the 
General Assembly has come at a more opportune time. 
Last  year  saw  many  new  developments.  Negotiations, 
which  were  unimaginable  before,  were  started  to  end 
the embargo on Cuba. An agreement was reached to lift 
sanctions on Iran. We recognize those who took part in 
making these historic decisions and encourage them to 
see these changes through to completion. This is very 
much in line with the policy my country has pursued for 
a number of decades. 
The world of today does not resemble the world of 
yesterday, and none of us can remain indifferent to this 
fact. Ours used to be a bipolar world, divided into blocs. 
We  did  not  thrive  because  the  poles  were  violently 
15-29568
3/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
opposed  to  one  another  and  had  access  to  the  most 
dangerous weapons the world possessed at the time. But 
we are also not doing well in a world with one Power 
that carries out diplomacy by issuing threats, oblivious 
to  the  concerns  of  all  others,  including  those  of  the 
United Nations. Peoples and States attend to their own 
interests and are thereby exposed and open to extremist 
religious  fanatics,  giving  rise  to  the  Islamic  State  in 
Iraq  and  the  Sham  and  other  extremist  movements. 
These terrorist groups now threaten millions of people 
and have created a negative image of Islam, the religion 
on whose behalf they profess to act.
The two key elements of law and ethics were once 
key in international relations and politics. United States 
President  Woodrow  Wilson  was  a  staunch  advocate, 
while  the  great  Serbian  poet  Njegoš  expressed  it  in 
verses of The Mountain Wreath in the following way: 
Along his path who maketh Might his right
Rise stenches of inhuman cruelty ... 
[and]
As Wolf doth on the Sheep impose his might, 
So tyrant lords it over feebler fellow; 
But foot to place upon the Tyrant’s neck, 
To bring him to the consciousness of Right — 
This of all human duties is most sacred!
Today,  however,  legal  and  ethical  factors  are 
essentially  being  eclipsed  in  international  politics. 
Not  infrequently,  unlawful  and  exceedingly  immoral 
actions  are  being 
taken,  purportedly  for  ethical 
and  legal  reasons.  This  happens  most  often  when  a 
clear  legal  norm  that  brooks  no  exception  —  such  as 
the  need  for  the  Security  Council  to  take  a  decision, 
for  instance  —  stands  in  the  way  of  a  major  Power 
achieving  its  geopolitical  goals.  International  law, 
therefore,  and  the  moral  tenets  underpinning  a  legal 
norm and its implementation, are deeply in crisis today. 
There  is  ample  evidence  of  this,  including  the  most 
recent large-scale crisis. Some call it a migrant crisis; 
others refer to it as another wave of people migrating 
for various reasons. 
What  worries  us,  though,  is  that  those  who 
think  that  efforts  should  be  intensified  in  the  hope 
of  restoring  peace  quickly  and  easily  and  promoting 
economic  progress  for  all  —  developing  countries, 
in  particular  —  are  few  and  far  between.  We  ought 
to look each other in the eye and assess the past year 
with  an  open  mind.  We  ought  to  announce  what  has 
been  achieved  in  our  countries.  Some  of  us  ought  to 
ask  themselves  if  their  actions  helped  humankind 
or  threatened  the  future  of  our  children.  Can  we  still 
begin our speeches with “We, the peoples of the United 
Nations”?  Are  we  any  closer  to  peace  and  prosperity 
or are we rushing, with blindfolds on, towards another 
1939, which saw the start of a major world tragedy that 
lasted six years and whose consequences we shall never 
be able to erase? 
Some of the mighty and powerful seem to believe 
that  the  world  economic  crisis  did  not  do  enough  to 
terrify our children and their parents. They continue to 
use highly sophisticated weapons to drive people from 
their homes and countries and thrust them, in fear for 
their  lives,  into  the  turmoil  of  migration,  journeying 
thousands of kilometres in a world without food, water 
or electricity.
The responsibility for these developments lies not 
with  those  who  struggle  to  fight  poverty  and  create 
conditions  in  their  countries  conducive  to  a  dignified 
human  life,  or  with  Serbia,  which  has  opened  soup 
kitchens  in  order  to  give  many  their  only  daily  meal. 
It lies with those who have much, whether God-given 
or  gained  by  exploiting  others.  It  lies  with  those  who 
spend more on arms than all the world’s poor countries 
together spend on food. It lies with all of us, because we 
cannot  contemplate  sustainable  development  without 
accepting  our  shared  responsibility  to  tackle  one  of 
the world’s major challenges — eradicating or at least 
alleviating poverty.
I often wonder how parents can look their children 
in  the  eye  as  they  tell  them  that  school  and  learning 
are  important  for  their  future  and  a  normal  life,  and 
try to convince them that they will have food on their 
plates  once  they  finish  school  and  acquire  learning. 
We  do  not  learn  when  we  live  in  fear,  have  nothing 
to  eat  or  are  threatened  by  disease,  when  our  parents 
are unemployed or we face the threat of a terrible war. 
Those here representing the rich and powerful should 
think  about  that  as  they  put  their  children  to  bed  in 
a  warm  room  at  night  and  make  important  decisions 
during  the  day.  Are  profits  and  political  or  military 
superiority really worth so much that we no longer feel 
the  sufferings  of  others  but  rather  let  baser  instincts 
take over? Peace and prosperity cannot be a privilege 
for  the  people  of  certain  countries  alone;  every  man 
and woman on planet Earth has a right to them. That 
4/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
is  why  we  hold  out  a  helping  hand  in  our  quest  to 
achieve the Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  through  shared  actions 
aimed at creating a better future for humankind, based 
on  principles  that  can  ensure  progress  and  prosperity 
for all.
Sustainable  development  is  clearly  a  concept 
accepted  by  most  of  the  world.  It  postulates  a  global 
economy linking every region of the world on a basis 
of  trust,  ethics,  equality  and  support,  as  well  as  a 
comprehensive approach to managing development by 
analysing  and  assessing  the  efforts  of  Governments 
and  businesses.  All  management,  however,  requires 
that  certain  rules  be  established,  and  the  question 
therefore  is:  Who  will  establish  the  rules  and  where? 
Can  individuals,  or  groups  of  individuals,  foresee  all 
possible  future  events  and  developments,  and  is  it 
possible  to  control  those  events  and  developments  at 
all?  Are  we  simply  establishing  a  new  global  power 
centre,  oblivious  to  the  individual  specifics  of  States 
or groups of States, an organization that has only one 
solution  to  all  problems?  What  can  we  do  about  the 
fact that some of the Goals do not correspond to some 
countries’ specific situations? We must understand that 
we cannot control everyone’s lives even if we think it 
may be risky to leave things up to their free will.
in  miraculous, 
Major  changes  in  the  way  we  live  demand  that 
we  allow  time  to  adjust  to  ensure  that  basic  values 
do  not  collapse.  Today,  the  world  is  extraordinarily 
interconnected 
virtual  ways; 
information is exchanged and people and goods move at 
unprecedented speed. But the people themselves have 
never been so alienated. In huge cities, amid millions, 
people die alone. Individuals, States and international 
organizations  become  alienated.  There  are  many 
reasons  for  this.  Increasingly,  relations  among  States 
are based on the more powerful, affluent and developed 
imposing their will on others.
We  hope  that  our  new  era  will  usher  in  a  new 
beginning,  a  new  way  of  thinking,  whose  essence 
will  be,  as  it  should,  in  the  best  interests  of  people 
and  their  immediate  and  larger  communities.  We  all 
understand that this is not easy to achieve, for modern 
communications  can  be  used  to  impose  a  way  of 
thinking aimed at implementing ideas that are not in the 
interests of the majority. Modern man’s urge to conform 
and daily struggle to meet ever greater demands, along 
with  the  spectre  of  unemployment  and  hardships  in 
later life, undermine his resolve to resist increasingly 
evident violations of basic human rights.
The  world  today  is  tragically  divided  between  a 
few  enormously  rich  individuals  and  a  majority  who 
live  outside  the  boundaries  of  human  dignity.  The 
twenty-first  century  threatens  to  be  an  age  in  which 
some countries accumulate and concentrate enormous 
individual wealth and the rest are consigned to poverty 
and  uncertainty.  Among  those  wealthy  individuals  is 
also an entirely new generation of privileged directors 
who, unjustifiably and immorally, are paid far more than 
their  employees.  It  seems,  however,  that  the  numbers 
of  those  willing  to  protest  this  phenomenon  has  been 
growing to a point where their demands may have to be 
acceded to. I urge everyone to work together to help to 
achieve an equitable distribution of the world’s assets 
and resources.
We continue to talk noncommittally about another 
major  challenge,  that  of  climate  change,  as  if  its 
consequences  were  not  patently  evident  everywhere, 
and as if we did not see that they are exacerbating the 
friction caused by the already high level of inequality in 
the world. In a wake-up call of sorts, the consequences 
of our past and current actions now have the greatest 
effect on the weakest of us, the countries that are still 
undeveloped  industrially  and  struggling  to  provide 
their citizens with a better life. 
Most developing countries account for just a fraction 
of global warming. They must be given the opportunity 
to grow their economies under the same conditions that 
have already enabled other countries to prosper, even 
though their greenhouse gas emissions may be higher 
than the rich would like. We must develop technologies 
that can enable developing countries to develop while 
being as environmentally responsible as possible, rather 
than  using  concerns  about  greenhouse  gas  emissions 
and global warming as pretexts to allow their industry 
to stagnate. There are moral reasons, too, for ensuring 
that countries develop. Politicians should be tasked with 
providing  full  support  to  scientific  activities,  on  the 
one hand, and harmonizing and coordinating responses 
to  climate  change  and  extreme  weather  situations,  on 
the other. Adapting and preparing national and social 
responses to potential scenarios, including worst-case 
scenarios, should be our most basic and important goal.
Serbia’s  Government  and  scientific  institutions, 
in  full  compliance  with  the  relevant  international 
documents, first and foremost among them the United 
15-29568
5/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
(UNFCCC)  and  the  Kyoto  Protocol,  will  continue  to 
contribute  to  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations  and 
other  organizations,  primarily  through  European  and 
regional initiatives on climate monitoring and reducing 
the negative effects of climate change. Serbia welcomes 
the forthcoming twenty-first session of the Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  UNFCCC  to  be  held  in  Paris 
later  this  year.  We  intend  to  support  and  make  a  full 
contribution  to  consideration  of  this  important  issue. 
We will continue to work together with others as a team 
and an active participant, in hopes that scientists will 
come  up  with  clear  answers  and  irrevocable  proof  as 
soon  as  possible,  while  politicians  support  them  and 
implement speedy, effective solutions.
We can hope for a better future only if we overcome 
problems  such  as  hunger,  wars  and  diseases.  Serbia 
has  therefore  actively  participated  in  peacekeeping 
operations all over the world and has made every effort 
to train and equip growing numbers of its officers and 
soldiers  to  take  part  in  such  important  assignments. 
In  that  regard,  this  year  Serbia’s  chairmanship  of  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
has  been  universally  commended,  including  by  those 
currently in conflict situations. I should also add that 
Serbia  has  been  a  candidate  country  of  the  European 
Union for more than three years now and has continued 
to  take  decisive  steps  to  harmonize  its  systems  and 
practices  with  European  Union  standards.  At  the 
same  time,  Serbia  has  also  continued  to  maintain  its 
cooperation and friendship with Russia and China.
A  State  is  made  up  of  its  territory,  its  people,  its 
languages and its cultural heritage. Serbia is the only 
country in Europe that in addition to seeing part of its 
territory seized, its people expelled and their murders 
and  the  so-called  harvesting  of  their  organs  going 
unpunished,  has  now  had  to  deal  with  attacks  on  its 
cultural  heritage  under  the  protection  of  UNESCO. 
Here  I  recall  that  in  March  2004,  in  the  face  of  only 
sporadic  opposition  from  the  Kosovo  Force  (KFOR), 
Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija destroyed numerous 
Christian  Orthodox  churches,  other  church  buildings, 
convents,  bell  towers  and  monastery  libraries  and 
archives, usually by setting fires or explosive devices. 
That  was  only  the  brutal  and  effective  perpetuation 
of  the  damage  and  destruction  of  over  140  Orthodox 
sanctuaries perpetrated since the arrival of the United 
Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo and 
the  KFOR  in  June  1999.  In  that  period,  the  Albanian 
terrorists  systematically  destroyed  the  spiritual  and 
cultural  heritage  of  the  Serbian  people  in  Kosovo 
and  Metohija.  Their  centuries-long  existence  there  is 
evinced in the many monasteries and churches whose 
foundations  were  laid  before  the  ninth  century  and 
represent Serbian deeds etched in stone, the testimony 
of the Serbian presence in Kosovo and Metohija.
At the thirty-first session of its General Conference, 
UNESCO  confirmed  that  a  crime  against  a  cultural 
heritage  was  committed  in  Kosovo  and  Metohija.  In 
the small territory of Kosovo and Metohija, UNESCO 
has registered 372 highly valuable cultural monuments 
of  the  Serbian  people,  as  clearl  defined  by  UNESCO 
standards. As many as 49 monuments from the Middle 
Ages  have  been  identified  as  a  part  of  European  and 
world  heritage  in  which  humankind  can  take  pride 
and  honour.  Specifically,  they  served  our  pride  and 
honour. These invaluable and unique works of art and 
architecture  have  survived  five  centuries  of  Ottoman 
rule, the Balkan Wars and the First and Second World 
Wars. 
Yet,  there  they  were,  in  2004,  being  savagely 
desecrated  and  destroyed,  buried  and  ploughed  over, 
as though that undertaking was a part of preparations, 
designed with meticulous precision, to coincide with the 
unilateral declaration of independence of the Republic 
of  Kosovo,  an  event  that  ensued  four  years  after  the 
barbaric  destruction  of  the  patrimony  of  Serbia’s 
Christian culture and civilization. Not only Serbian, but 
also European culture and the world’s collective memory 
are preserved in Kosovo and Metohija, representing an 
important human civilizational achievement on planet 
Earth. It is therefore important that Serbia, as a member 
of UNESCO, continues to be the keeper of this cultural 
treasure, which belongs both to Serbia and to the world.
In an attempt to falsify history — unfortunately with 
the support of a certain number of countries — Albania 
has submitted, on behalf of the Pristina Administration, 
a  request  to  UNESCO  that  the  Serbian  heritage  be 
declared  Kosovar  —  that  is,  Albanian.  Those  who 
strategically  destroyed  monasteries  with  the  aim  of 
marginalizing the importance of Kosovo and Metohija 
for  the  Serbs  and  of  establishing  a  new  ethnic  and 
cultural identity for Kosovo and Metohija on the ashes 
of the history of others, would be rewarded in that way. 
How  is  it  possible  that  arsonists  and  destroyers,  with 
goals that clearly go beyond all the ethical norms and 
established  rules  on  which  UNESCO  was  founded, 
6/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
are now trying to project themselves as guardians and 
protectors?
Should  that  request  be  accepted  nonetheless,  a 
dangerous precedent would be set and the door would 
be opened for the legitimization of violence against the 
national,  cultural  and  religious  identity  of  any  people 
anywhere. By defending the right of Serbia to preserve 
and  proudly  present  its  identity  and  cultural  heritage, 
as it has done for the past 11 centuries, by preventing 
the  unscrupulous  dispossession  of  one’s  heritage  and 
its attribution to somebody else, we are defending the 
underlying  principles  of  international  law  and  human 
justice,  as  well  as  those  on  which  UNESCO  was 
founded.  I  therefore  call  on  all  Heads  of  State  not  to 
allow  the  Serbian  people  to  have  its  soul  excised,  its 
essence  usurped  and  its  monasteries  in  Kosovo  and 
Metohija, its spiritual backbone, declared the cultural 
heritage of the Albanian people there. In short, that is 
neither the truth nor a historical and scientific fact. It 
is not justice.
Peoples  do  not  acquire  history  and  civilization 
by  snatching  centuries  of  the  existence  of  others  or 
by  bribing,  with  Judas’  silver,  those  to  whom  the 
history of others means nothing and who would stand 
by indifferently if the spiritual and cultural roots of a 
people  —  in  this  case  of  we  Serbs  —  were  removed 
from the areas from which they had been expelled. The 
United Nations must preserve its credibility and stand 
up to the injustice and evil that Serbia would suffer if 
the Organization acquiesced to that undertaking. I am 
certain  that  those  gathered  here,  as  responsible  and 
honourable persons of State, will stand up against the 
injustice and wrong that would be inflicted upon Serbia 
and  could  have  a  domino  effect  on  other  nations  and 
States.
Serbia  is  talking  to  the  representatives  of  the 
Administration in Pristina. It will fulfil all its obligations 
under Security Council resolution 1244 (1999) and all its 
obligations under the agreements reached in Brussels, 
but  it  will  never,  ever  recognize  the  independence  of 
part of its territory, the autonomous province of Kosovo 
and Metohija, to which its very existence is connected.
The problem of the mass migration from the Middle 
East is the greatest challenge of our times. We cannot 
analyse  the  causes  and  or  identify  those  directly  and 
indirectly  responsible  for  the  migrant  crisis  here  and 
now. It is an issue of paramount importance and should 
be addressed at an international forum that would bring 
together  prominent  leaders  and  eminent  scholars  and 
scientists. That is the best way to assess the situation 
objectively, provide an answer and propose a solution 
to  that  complex  problem.  The  humanitarian  disaster 
facing  the  world  is  only  a  consequence  of  the  crisis 
that has shaken Syria for the past four years, all along 
without  an  adequate  response  from  the  international 
community. 
Without  access  to  common  funding,  the  situation 
of Serbia is perhaps more difficult than that of the other 
countries  of  the  old  continent.  Despite  its  difficult 
economic  situation,  Serbia  is  making  every  effort  to 
provide  decent  conditions  and  accommodation  for 
refugees. However, if the international community, and 
the European Union above all, fails to make concrete 
efforts to solve the problem, a humanitarian catastrophe 
of  an  even  larger  scale  would  threaten  South-East 
Europe.  The  consequences  are  impossible  to  foresee, 
but  they  would  surely  affect  not  only  Europe,  but  the 
whole world as well. As regards the number of asylum-
seekers  in  the  Republic  of  Serbia,  125,138  persons 
arrived in Serbia between 1 January and 14 September, 
and only 524 have submitted asylum requests.
I  would  like  to  draw  attention  to  the  alarming 
practice  of  some  Governments  that  have  erected  wire 
and razor fences to ghettoize the asylum-seekers fleeing 
war  and  destitution.  Such  an  attitude  runs  counter  to 
the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees 
and the proclaimed solidarity of the States members of 
the European Union with migrants. It also aggravates 
the situation in countries that respect international law 
and treat the individuals struck by calamity humanely. 
The  Governments  of  certain  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations behave as if they had never abandoned 
the ideology that prevailed before the end of the Second 
World  War,  thereby  destroying  the  fragile  stability  in 
the Balkans that was achieved through hard work and 
dedication, to which Serbia contributed the most.
My country has had to cope with a deep economic 
crisis since 2008. Refugees, therefore, cannot expect to 
secure much more than their personal safety in Serbia. 
We will provide it to them irrespective of the fact that 
certain  countries  also  intervene  against  people  living 
in  Serbian  territory.  Our  care  for  humankind  and  our 
empathy for those in need, as well as our resolve to give 
those people what we may not need as urgently as they 
do at the moment, will not diminish. Our borders are 
open to receive them and to let them through. We need 
no law for that because that is the way we are. Serbia is 
15-29568
7/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
not a member of the European Union, but it consistently 
implements  the  proclaimed  principle  of  solidarity,  a 
fundamental  value  and  the  supposedly  unconditional 
mainstay of the Union itself. I do not understand this 
selfishness,  and  sometimes  even  the  hatred  towards 
those  who  have  nothing  that  some  individuals  have 
come to nurture. If the rapid pace with which the leaders 
of some countries are losing their cool and composure 
are any clue, the situation can only deteriorate.
We  therefore  need  a  comprehensive  plan  that 
would  have  to  be  implemented  within  the  shortest 
possible  time.  Without  such  a  plan,  migrants  will  be 
left  altogether  at  the  mercy  of  human  smugglers. 
Passivity  and  the  increasingly  inhumane  treatment  of 
migrants  open  a  market  for  smugglers.  The  sequence 
of catastrophes that would ensue in such a case, from 
the Mediterranean to the British Isles, would be tragic, 
and the tragedy in which over 800 people died would 
be remembered as just one sad link in that sorry chain.
Even  though  it  was  not  directly  involved  in  the 
conflict  in  the  territory  of  the  former  Yugoslavia  in 
the 1990s, started and stage-managed in a similar way 
to the conflict in Syria, Serbia was labelled guilty. A 
resolution was even recently submitted to the Security 
Council  to  stigmatize  the  Serbs  as  an  example  of  a 
genocidal  people,  although  such  a  characterization  of 
any  people  in  the  world  is  unjustifiable.  The  attempt 
failed, as members of the Security Council were aware 
of  the  true  intentions  and  desires  of  the  initiators, 
as  well  as  the  possible  catastrophic  consequences. 
What  kind  of  genocidal  criminals  are  we?  Is  it  the 
image  imparted  by  the  footage  of  migrants  in  Serbia, 
undaunted  and  unworried  about  the  reaction  of  our 
people and authorities, unlike elsewhere in the region, 
or  is  it  the  image  of  a  hospitable  people  with  a  kind 
heart? Have Serbian citizens changed? They have not. 
The people of Serbia of all ethnicities have, now and in 
the past, been humane and hospitable, as well as good 
neighbours.
In  addition  to  refugees  from  Syria,  Afghanistan, 
Pakistan and Iraq, Serbia hosts hundreds of thousands 
of refugees and displaced persons from the territory of 
the former Yugoslavia. They are preponderantly Serbs, 
but  include  also  Bosniaks,  Croats,  Roma  and  others. 
Some  of  these  people  have  gone  to  third  countries, 
while others continue to live in Serbia. We are still faced 
with the consequences of these migration as they have 
altered the demographic, social and other structures of 
our country and society. Then and now, my country has 
not had much to offer to these destitute people who left 
their homes. It has shared the little it had.
Serbia expects the United Nations Member States 
to act responsibly and humanely. We should all bear in 
mind that this situation will have global consequences. 
Civilization is at a crossroads. Europe is going through 
serious  travails  and  tribulations.  Now  is  the  time 
for  it  to  show  if  it  still  is  the  standard-bearer  in  the 
implementation  of  human  rights  and  the  respect  of 
international law or if it continues to turn a blind eye to 
the apparent double standards and allows the attainment 
of civilization to be valid only for some countries and 
some peoples.
Equality is applicable not only to relations among 
individuals,  but  also  to  relations  among  States.  Our 
fathers shed blood on many battlefields for the equality 
of all peoples. They fought for our freedom to speak our 
mind and for our opinion to be strong enough to change 
things.  Freedom  and  equality  are  the  fundamental 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  of 
numerous  international  documents  and  of  national 
constitutions. We must not allow them to become dead 
letters.
By  taking  up  these  topics  and  drawing  members’ 
attention to them, I hope to motivate us to show genuine 
empathy  and  solidarity,  to  take  responsibility  for  the 
future  and  to  build,  together  and  indefatigably,  true 
humanism in the Organization that gathered us together 
here today. I would like us to meet in this place with 
different  messages  next  year  and,  if  not  with  our 
problems solved, then at least with steps made towards 
solving  the  problems  that  burden  us  today.  I  would 
like  us  to  be  better  every  coming  year.  I  would  like 
the States of the world to feel that the ideas of liberty 
and equality and of a humane and just society are not 
just  empty  rhetoric,  but  instead  genuinely  resolve  to 
implement them throughout our planet.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Serbia for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr. Tomislav Nikolić, President of the Republic of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
8/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
Address by Mr. Ismaël Omar Guelleh, President and 
Head of Government of the Republic of Djibouti
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President 
and Head of Government of the Republic of Djibouti.
Mr.  Ismaël  Omar  Guelleh,  President  and  Head 
of  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Djibouti,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ismaël  Omar  Guelleh, 
President and Head of Government of the Republic of 
Djibouti, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Guelleh:  At  the  outset,  allow  me  to 
congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft, 
as  well  as  his  country,  the  Kingdom  of  Denmark,  on 
his election to the presidency of the General Assembly. 
With  his  wisdom  and  experience,  I  am  confident 
that  he  will  successfully  steer  the  proceedings  of  the 
Assembly. I assure him of my delegation’s cooperation 
and support.
I would also like to extend my heartfelt thanks to 
His Excellency Mr. Sam Kutesa, who has just concluded 
his  mission  as  President  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
ninth session. Mr. Kutesa worked tirelessly to promote 
the work of the General Assembly and we are grateful 
to him for his dedicated service.
Finally, I would like to thank our Secretary-General, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  leadership, 
dedication and personal commitment to advancing the 
agenda of the Organization.
(spoke in French)
I  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  a  warm  tribute  to 
the  memory  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Roble  Olhaye, 
Permanent Representative of the Republic of Djibouti 
to the United Nations and Ambassador of the Republic 
of  Djibouti  to  the  United  States.  My  country  and 
I  myself  have  lost  a  brother  and  a  great  patriot.  The 
United  Nations  family  has  also  lost  a  colleague  and 
a friend. The late Roble Olhaye was the epitome of a 
seasoned and experienced diplomat. His background is 
impressive;  his  life  rich  in  teachings  and  his  success 
immense.  I  would  like  to  particularly  emphasize 
his  constant  struggle  for  economic  and  commercial 
development for the African continent. He represented 
our country and all of Africa with pride. The grief and 
sorrow we feel today following his death are alleviated 
by the many expressions of respect and compassion we 
have received from around the world. He be profoundly 
missed  by  all.  May  God  Almighty  welcome  him  into 
his eternal paradise. 
It is a great honour for me to take the floor before 
the  Assembly  of  peoples  to  celebrate,  with  men  and 
women of all countries, races, languages   and cultures, 
the seventieth anniversary of the founding of the United 
Nations. When the Charter of the United Nations was 
drafted in 1946, it sent a message of hope for tomorrow 
from  one  of  the  darkest  chapters  in  human  history.  It 
symbolized,  in  fact,  the  international  community’s 
aspiration  for  peace  and  cooperation.  This  year,  we 
celebrate  not  only  the  seventieth  birthday  of  our 
beloved Organization, which is a historic date in itself, 
but also the twentieth anniversary of the Fourth World 
Conference on Women and the fifteenth anniversary of 
the adoption of the Millennium Declaration.
This  is  a  crucial  year  that  carries  many  hopes. 
Despite the sustained efforts made to achieve a world 
of  prosperity,  equity,  freedom,  dignity  and  peace 
for  all  people,  we  all  know,  unfortunately,  we  still 
have  a  long  way  to  go.  The  international  community 
undeniably remains faced with an unprecedented range 
of  major  challenges:  poverty  and  hunger,  persistent 
unemployment and violent armed conflict, and climate 
change. As recently as last year, we saw the health-care 
systems of brotherly countries being overwhelmed by 
new terrible threats, such as the Ebola virus, while new 
challenges have emerged constantly threatening peace 
and  security.  We  will  have  the  opportunity  to  return 
to  this,  but  allow  me  now  to  address  the implications 
of the macroeconomic fragility in the global economy, 
the many and varied challenges facing our country and 
the importance of establishing a credible and beneficial 
multilateral trading system for all.
The  global  economic  and  financial  environment 
is  more  alarming  than  ever.  The  2008  financial 
and  economic  crisis  has  had  multidimensional 
consequences and many developing countries continue 
to  face  difficult  macroeconomic  situations.  Any 
response designed to resolve this situation should take 
into account the special needs of Africa, and especially 
those of the least developed countries, and ensure that 
the commitments undertaken at international meetings 
can be implemented. 
15-29568
9/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
In that regard, we continue to observe with concern 
the current difficulties faced by States members of the 
World  Trade  Organization  in  efforts  to  identify  ways 
and means to overcome the impasse in the Doha Round 
of  negotiations  and  establish  a  significant  post-Bali 
programme of work. Major issues are at stake because 
it is our responsibility to build a credible multilateral 
trading  system  that  enables  everyone,  in  particular 
developing  countries, 
their  objectives 
in  the  areas  of  industrialization  and  the  structural 
transformation of their economies.
identify 
to 
Climate  change  is  not  only  the  greatest  challenge 
that  humankind  faces,  but  also  the  most  important 
one  of  our  day  in  terms  of  development.  It  threatens 
to  undermine  life  for  future  generations.  The  many 
meetings  on  climate  change  and  the  lack  of  progress 
achieved  illustrate  the  extent  to  which  this  issue  is  a 
source  of  controversy  and  division.  It  is  true  that  our 
claims are legitimate and understandable. However, it 
is  also  true  that  Africa  has  more  to  lose  than  others. 
That is why we are ready to assume our responsibility 
to reduce our emissions and we hope that the principle 
of  common  but  differentiated  responsibilities  will  be 
scrupulously respected.
Each region has its specificities and environmental 
concerns that are not necessarily the same as those of 
countries in other regions. My country is particularly 
exposed  to  many  natural  hazards,  the  most  frequent 
and  destructive  being  droughts  and  floods.  The 
Republic of Djibouti, despite its marginal contribution 
to greenhouse gas emissions, is contributing to global 
efforts to fight against this devastating scourge. To that 
end,  we  recently  hosted  a  conference  in  partnership 
with the Climate and Energy Institute of the prestigious 
Yale  University,  which  has  developed  a  very  relevant 
climate  model  illustrating  all  the  scenarios  of  the 
climate change impact on our region.
It is in this spirit that we proposed to establish and 
host in Djibouti a regional environmental observatory. 
Moreover, my country has for several years carried out 
a policy of renewable energy use with the stated goal 
of excluding fossil fuels by the year 2020. That is why, 
together with Ethiopia, we have already put in place a 
hydropower  project  and  begun  to  use  the  tremendous 
potential of our country’s geothermal, wind, solar and 
tidal energy.
The environment is a cross-cutting and transnational 
element.  Consequently  and  logically,  we  need  cross-
cutting,  transnational  and  interdisciplinary  policies 
commensurate with the challenge. It is therefore time 
to adopt just, fair and scientific climate goals. We hope 
that  the  twenty-first  session  of  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change, which will be held soon in Paris, 
will mark a decisive turning point.
Violent  extremism  is  the  product  of  a  deadly 
ideology  that  openly  advocates  the  destruction  and 
elimination of others on behalf of a supposed religious 
belief,  whereas  Islam  is  a  religion  which  essentially 
advocates  openness,  tolerance  and  love  of  one’s 
neighbour.  Our  region,  East  Africa,  is  one  of  the 
primary targets of terrorist attacks. Al-Shabaab poses a 
major threat to our region and is at the root of terrorist 
attacks and many attempted attacks in most countries 
of our region. This painful experience has enabled us 
to develop a knowledge of the workings, practices and 
strategies  of  terrorist  groups,  which  deserves  to  be 
shared. 
The  causes  that  encourage  the  spread  of  the 
scourge  of  extremism  and,  in  effect,  terrorist  groups, 
are deep and diverse. Cracks and fractures seen in the 
international  security  architecture  and  conflict  zones 
in  the  Middle  East  and  Africa,  as  well  as  economic 
hardship, extreme poverty and the perception, justified 
or  not,  of  marginalization,  all  generate  a  feeling  of 
uncertainty and a strong desire to belong that can make 
groups  sensitive  to  the  extremist  rhetoric  and  lead  to 
violent attacks. We all know the human costs and the 
countless security, economic and social problems that 
they bring about.
Yesterday,  President  Obama  took  the  initiative  to 
organize  a  summit  on  this  topic,  which  concerns  us 
all.  We  thank  him  for  that  because  the  international 
context  shows  us  the  need  and  relevance  of  such 
consultations on a daily basis. No country can fight this 
scourge alone, because terrorism knows no borders. To 
neutralize this threat, we must work together concretely 
and  decisively.  Strategies  to  combat  and  prevent 
extremist  violence  must  be  perfectly  calibrated  while 
also avoiding overreaction. They must be based on an 
analysis of the root causes and an understanding of the 
reasons driving extremism.
Governments, regional and international organizations, 
religious  leaders  and  leaders  of  academia  and  civil 
society must join forces to strengthen resilience in the 
face  of  terrorism  and  establish  security  and  stability 
10/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
in our countries. In that regard, my country will soon 
create, within the framework of the Intergovernmental 
Authority  on  Development,  a  centre  of  excellence 
to  combat  violent  extremism.  The  centre  will  seek 
to  strengthen  the  capacities  of  governmental  and 
non-governmental  actors  and  provide  a  space  for 
dialogue and a platform for the exchange of information 
among researchers and specialists.
Since 2008, the Member States represented in this 
Hall  have  witnessed  the  tense  and  so  far  unresolved 
situation prevailing in the north of my country following 
the  unjustified  and  incomprehensible  occupation  by 
Eritrean forces of part of our territory. Members of my 
Government and I have come here on several occasions 
to brief the international community about the situation 
and  to  inform  it  about  the  unreasonable  behaviour  of 
Eritrea,  which  continues  to  ignore  the  gravity  of  the 
situation  and  reject  any  attempts  at  discussion.  To 
resolve this conflict peacefully, my country, from the 
beginning, has sought out the good offices of the African 
Union, the League of Arab States, the Organization of 
Islamic Cooperation and the United Nations. We finally 
agreed to mediation by His Highness the Amir of the 
State of Qatar, in the belief that Eritrea would listen to 
reason, but that was in vain.
To  date,  more  than  five  years  after  the  signing 
of  the  mediation  Agreement,  we  are  still  awaiting 
the  demarcation  of  the  border  and  the  return  of  our 
prisoners  of  war.  Despite  the  call  to  reason  by  the 
international community and the adoption of resolutions 
1862  (2009),  1907  (2009)  and  2023  (2011),  Eritrea 
has  refused  to  recognize  the  existence  of  Djiboutian 
prisoners, even though two of them have, fortunately, 
managed to escape. This attitude of denial, even after 
the return and the testimony of these prisoners, and the 
refusal  of  any  discussion  is  contrary  to  international 
standards  and  conduct.  It  demonstrates  the  danger 
that  this  country  represents  for  the  region  and  the 
international  community  as  a  whole.  My  country  has 
always  managed  to  preserve  peace  and  we  believe  in 
the  virtues  of  dialogue  and  mediation.  However,  the 
territorial integrity of my country is non-negotiable.
With  regard  to  Yemen,  we  are  deeply  concerned 
about the tragic situation currently facing that brotherly 
country  and  especially  about  the  deterioration  of  the 
humanitarian  situation,  which  has  been  catastrophic 
since  the  beginning  of  the  conflict.  The  Republic 
of  Djibouti  reaffirms  its  solidarity  with  the  Yemeni 
people and has taken all necessary measures to assist 
and welcome the displaced people fleeing the fighting. 
The  situation  prevailing  today  in  Yemen  is  the 
result  of  the  refusal  of  the  rebellion  to  accept  and 
respect  the  political  transition  period,  as  negotiated 
during  the  National  Dialogue  process.  By  taking  up 
arms, they have wrought havoc in this country and have 
forced the legitimate President to leave the country. We 
condemn the actions of the rebellion and especially the 
threats that these elements pose to the unity, integrity, 
stability  and  sovereignty  of  Yemen.  In  addition,  the 
escalating  violence  in  Yemen  is  a  grave  threat  to  the 
security and stability of the region and opens up a new 
front  of  radicalization,  including  the  rise  in  power  of 
Al-Qaida  in  the  Arabian  Peninsula  along  our  eastern 
border,  which  poses  a  distinct  threat  to  my  country 
throughout the Bab-al-Mandab strait.
In  this  connection,  we  welcome  the  military 
intervention  of  brotherly  countries  of 
the  Gulf 
Cooperation  Council,  led  by  Saudi  Arabia  in  Yemen, 
at  the  request  of  President  Hadi  Mansour.  We  thank 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-Moon  and,  through  him, 
Mr.  Ismail  Ould  Cheikh  Ahmed,  his  Special  Envoy 
for Yemen, for their dedication and the tireless efforts 
they have shown since the beginning this conflict. We 
ask the United Nations to redouble its efforts and the 
activities of its good offices to enable the resumption 
of  a  peaceful  political  transition  process  because  the 
settlement  of  the  crisis  in  Yemen  requires  dialogue. 
Lastly,  we  urge  all  Yemeni  parties  to  participate  in 
good  faith  in  the  dialogue  being  conducted  under  the 
auspices of the United Nations.
regional  administrations  and  an 
Despite the difficulties and daily obstacles of which 
we are all aware, Somalia has made significant progress, 
most notably in federal training and the establishment 
of 
independent 
National  Electoral  Commission.  However,  the  Somali 
Government still faces significant challenges. It is clear 
to us that rebuilding Somalia depends on guaranteeing 
a stable security environment. Of course, over the past 
two years, great progress has been made on the ground, 
but the extremist threat remains in view of the increase 
in  attacks  in  recent  months.  The  attack  on  26  July 
against Jazeera Hotel is proof of that.
Such  attacks  have  demonstrated  that  the  African 
Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) needs the support 
of the Somali security forces. I therefore reiterate our 
belief  that  establishing  a  properly  equipped,  trained 
15-29568
11/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
and  led  Somali  army  that,  above  all,  benefits  from 
the necessary financial support is imperative. Indeed, 
the project to integrate armed elements into a regular 
force capable of responding to threats to the unity and 
territorial  integrity  of  Somalia  should,  in  my  view, 
be  a  priority  for  the  Somali  Government  and  for  the 
international  community.  I  take  this  opportunity  to 
commend the tireless efforts and heavy sacrifices made 
by  AMISOM  troops  and  Somali  forces,  despite  the 
gravity of the security situation.
We  feel  the  scale  of  the  Palestinian  suffering  in 
our very being. We are all aware that, after more than 
half a century of tragedy and resistance, the Palestinian 
people  continue  to  suffer  from  the  Israeli  occupation 
and to live in inhumane conditions before our eyes. Each 
time a glimmer of hope of resuming peace negotiations 
appears, the Israeli State puts an end to it by resuming 
the building of new settlements. We, as Governments 
and  members  of  the  General  Assembly,  have  a  moral 
duty and political responsibility to say “no” and to give 
these brotherly Palestine people the right to be free from 
occupation, the right to live in dignity and peace and 
the right to aspire to the goals that each and everyone 
of us has. An independent and viable Palestinian State, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital and full membership 
of the United Nations, is an imperative for peace and 
stability in that region and will change the course and 
image of history.
It is undeniable that we are now at a crucial moment 
in  the  history  of  our  Organization  and  that  the  world 
in  which  we  live  is  very  different  from  that  of  1945. 
It is also undeniable that this evolution requires us to 
adapt to new and changing realities. In that regard, the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  Security 
Council  reform  are  paramount.  We  welcome,  in  this 
regard,  the  adoption  by  the  General  Assembly  of 
resolution  69/321  on  the  revitalization  of  its  work.
Following  the  landmark  achievement  of  the  founding 
fathers of creating the United Nations, we must tirelessly 
pursue our quest to fulfil all the promises contained in 
their visions.
With  regard  to  Security  Council  reform,  it  is 
imperative that at the start of the seventieth anniversary 
of the Organization, the African continent, which has 
the largest number of countries, have a permanent voice 
in the conduct of international affairs. That is why my 
country reiterates its full commitment to the conclusions 
of  the  Summit  of  the  African  Union  Committee  of 
Ten  Heads  of  State,  held  on  9  May  in  Livingstone, 
Zambia,  in  particular  the  need  to  continue  promoting 
the Africa Common Position on United Nations reform 
and  on  preserving  the  unity  of  the  Group  of  African 
States.  Over  15  years  after  its  adoption,  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus remains relevant, especially in this context 
where African issues are more than ever on the Security 
Council’s agenda.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President and Head of Government of the Republic of 
Djibouti for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Ismaël  Omar  Guelleh,  President  and  Head 
of  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Djibouti,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Choummaly Sayasone, President of 
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
Mr.  Choummaly  Sayasone,  President  of  the  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  was  escorted  into 
the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Choummaly 
Sayasone,  President  of  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Sayasone (spoke in Lao; interpretation 
provided by the delegation): At the outset, I would like 
to extend my sincere congratulations to His Excellency 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  on  his  election  as  President  of 
the  seventieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  am 
confident that, with his extensive diplomatic experience, 
he will guide this session with great success. I would 
like to assure him of our full support and cooperation 
in the discharge of his noble duties. I would also like to 
sincerely commend His Excellency Mr. Sam Kahamba 
Kutesa  for  his  successful  completion  of  his  tenure  as 
the President of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth 
session.
This year marks the seventieth anniversary of the 
United  Nations  since  its  establishment  following  the 
Second World War. Its main objectives are to promote 
international  peace  and  security  and  development 
cooperation,  aimed  at  ensuring  that  all  humankind 
lives  in  peace  and  in  an  environment  conducive  to 
12/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
development. Despite the conflicts and challenges that 
have occurred in different parts of the world, in general 
peace, security and development cooperation among all 
nations remain the prevailing trends of this era. That has 
been an important achievement of the United Nations 
in fulfilling its mandate enshrined in its Charter.
Nevertheless, the international environment continues 
to face numerous challenges, such as armed conflicts, 
terrorism,  poverty  and  hunger,  infectious  diseases, 
climate  change  and  natural  disasters,  which  have  in 
turn  posed  major  threats  to  peace  and  development. 
I  am  therefore  of  the  view  that  we  must  enhance  our 
political will, mutual assistance and cooperation under 
the banner of the United Nations in order to collectively 
address  the  challenges  facing  us.  To  that  end,  the 
United  Nations  must  improve  its  working  methods. 
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  hopes  that, 
on  the  occasion  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
United Nations this year, the international community 
will  collectively  make  serious  efforts  to  conduct  a 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Organization  so  that  it 
can respond to emerging challenges in a more effective 
manner.
I take this opportunity to welcome the successful 
conclusion  a  few  days  ago  of  the  United  Nations 
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  at  which  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 
70/1) was adopted with a view to further addressing the 
major challenges the world faces today, including any 
Millennium Development Goals that have yet to be met. 
Indeed,  the  new  development  Agenda  is  the  outcome 
of  open  and  inclusive  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
If  we  are  to  achieve  the  set  Goals  and  targets  within 
the  next  15  years,  we  need  to  honour  our  political 
commitment  to  strengthening  global  partnership  and 
cooperation at all possible levels.
Conflicts are being waged today in many regions 
of the world, which have caused major concern for the 
international  community.  It  is  therefore  important  to 
find  solutions  and  to  restore  peace  and  development 
to  those  regions.  In  that  context,  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic  has  consistently  supported  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  conflicts.  I  therefore  praise  all 
parties concerned for reaching an agreement on Iran’s 
nuclear programme, which is of historic significance. It 
is testimony to the value of dialogue as the best way to 
address a conflict, which should be taken as a model for 
resolving hot issues globally.
In addition, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
has always hoped that the issue of Palestine, which has 
been stalled for many decades, will be resolved through 
peaceful means by the parties concerned with a view to 
creating  two  independent  States,  Palestine  and  Israel, 
living side by side in peace, based on the Arab Peace 
Initiative, and within recognized borders, as stipulated 
in  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  The  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic  therefore  urges  the 
international community to redouble its efforts to help 
restore Palestine to normalcy as soon as possible.
In  the  era  of  interdependence,  cooperation  and 
engagement  are  key  factors  for  peaceful  coexistence 
and  mutual  benefit.  The  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic  welcomes  the  recent  re-establishment  of 
diplomatic  relations  between  the  United  States  of 
America and the Republic of Cuba, which has opened 
a  new  chapter  in  the  history  of  relations  between  the 
two countries, which had been at a standstill for many 
years. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic hopes that 
the  re-established  relations  will  be  further  enhanced, 
leading to an end of the embargo and thereby bringing 
genuine benefits to the people of the two nations, the 
region and the world as a whole.
is 
therefore 
Climate  change  and  severe  natural  disasters, 
which are occurring more frequently, have had a huge 
impact  on  the  development  of  countries,  especially 
the  developing  and  least  developed  countries,  which 
are most vulnerable due to their limited infrastructure 
and  insufficient  technological,  financial  and  human 
resources to respond to and address those phenomena. 
It 
international 
community to help such vulnerable countries through, 
among  other  things,  long-term  capacity-building  to 
tackle  such  challenges.  We  hope  that  the  twenty-first 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to 
be  held  in  Paris  later  this  year,  will  be  able  to  adopt 
various  measures  to  address  climate  change  in  the 
coming years.
incumbent  upon 
the 
The  South-East  Asian  region,  which  is  now  in 
the  process  of  economic  integration  through  the 
various  cooperation  frameworks  of  the  Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  with  a  view  to 
building an ASEAN community by the end of this year, 
has  continued  to  enjoy  peace,  stability  and  constant 
economic growth. ASEAN has broadened its external 
relations  with  different  countries  and  regional  groups 
at  various  levels,  as  well  as  with  the  United  Nations. 
15-29568
13/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
In 2016, the first year of the ASEAN community, the 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic will have the honour 
to  chair  ASEAN  for  the  second  time.  I  hope  that  the 
international  community,  especially 
the  ASEAN 
dialogue  partners,  will  continue  to  support  ASEAN-
led  mechanisms,  in  which  ASEAN  plays  a  central 
role, so that it can become a community based on the 
ASEAN  way  and  continue  to  be  a  regional  grouping 
that  contributes  to  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
enhancement of cooperation with other regions and the 
world at large.
This  year  marks  the  fortieth  anniversary  of  the 
establishment of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic. 
Over  the  past  four  decades,  we  have  gone  through  a 
period of healing the wounds of war and advancing our 
national  development  through  the  implementation  of 
five-year  national  socioeconomic  development  plans, 
especially  the  seventh  five-year  plan  for  2011-2015, 
which  will  be  completed  by  the  end  of  this  year.  The 
achievements of the past 40 years can be attributed to 
many factors, but the most crucial have been political 
stability  and  social  order,  which  have  provided  a 
conducive  environment  for  economic  growth  and 
steadily improved the livelihood of the people.
The  Lao  Government  has  maintained  its  tireless 
political  will  to  fight  poverty,  create  benchmarks  for 
raising the country’s status from that of least developed 
country, and pursue the path of sustainable development 
through a three-level development programme known 
as  sam  sang,  which  identifies  provinces  as  strategic 
entities,  districts  as  comprehensively  strengthened 
entities  and  villages  as  development  entities.  The 
programme  will  strengthen  my  country’s  cooperation 
with  development  partners  and  pave  the  way  for  the 
industrialization  and  modernization  of  the  country. 
Indeed,  we  are  moving  in  the  right  direction  in  our 
national development. 
In  addition,  in  the  coming  months,  coinciding 
with  the  eighth  five-year  national  socioeconomic 
development plan for 2016-2020, the Lao Government 
will  adopt  a  10-year  socioeconomic  development 
strategy for 2016-2025 and the Vision 2030 programme. 
Nevertheless,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
will undoubtedly continue to face numerous challenges 
in  undergoing  socioeconomic  development.  Those 
include,  among  others,  the  impact  of  the  regional 
and  global  economic  and  financial  crises  and  natural 
disasters. I therefore call on our development partners 
and  the  international  community  to  maintain  their 
support  for  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  so 
that we can achieve our sustainable development foals 
in the coming years.
Although  the  Indochina  War  ended  four  decades 
ago,  the  legacy  of  that  war  continues  to  pose  serious 
obstacles  to  our  national  development,  especially  to 
agriculture,  employment,  infrastructure  development 
and  investment  programmes  in  areas  that  remain 
contaminated  by  unexploded  ordinance.  Removing 
those remnants of war will take a long time and require 
considerable  resources.  Aware  of  that  serious  impact, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  has  actively 
promoted 
the  Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions 
(CCM), which can prevent the further victimization of 
humankind. 
Earlier this month, the First Review Conference to 
the Convention on Cluster Munitions was held in Croatia 
to take stock of the progress and shortcomings in the 
implementation of that important Convention. The Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic  takes  this  opportunity 
to  call  upon  those  countries  that  are  not  yet  party  to 
the  CCM  to  accede  to  that  universal  Convention.  At 
the  same  time,  we  encourage  friendly  countries  and 
international  organizations  to  continue  to  provide 
funding and technical support in that endeavour.
This year marks the sixtieth anniversary of Laos as 
a State Member of the United Nations. Throughout the 
years, we have actively participated in the work of the 
United Nations in various areas. Moreover, cooperation 
between  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  and 
the  United  Nations  has  steadily  grown.  The  financial 
and  technical  support  that  have  been  provided  by 
United Nations agencies, funds and programmes have 
all  contributed  significantly  to  the  socioeconomic 
development of our country. We hope that such valuable 
support  and  cooperation  will  continue  in  the  coming 
years.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  attaches 
great  importance  to  promoting  and  protecting  human 
rights and has become State party to seven of the main 
international human rights instruments. In its desire to 
contribute  to  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  has  presented 
its  candidature  for  membership  to  the  Human  Rights 
Council  for  the  period  2016-2018.  We  look  forward 
to  receiving  the  support  of  Members  States  and  the 
opportunity  to  contribute  to  the  work  of  the  Human 
Rights Council.
14/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
This  year  is  of  great  historical  significance  to 
the 
international  community,  especially  because 
of  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1).  I  believe  that  it  will 
mark an important milestone in realizing the aspiration 
of  humankind  to  live  in  peace,  security,  prosperity 
and  social  justice,  while  protecting  the  environment 
and promoting the sustainable development towards a 
brighter  future  for  current  and  future  generations.  To 
that  end,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  will 
contribute actively to the realization of the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and  targets  that  world  leaders 
adopted a few days ago.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Choummaly  Sayasone,  President  of  the  Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Baron Divavesi Waqa, President of 
the Republic of Nauru
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Nauru.
the 
Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa,  President  of 
Republic of Nauru, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Baron Divavesi Waqa, President of the Republic of 
Nauru, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Waqa: It is an honour to be here for the 
seventieth anniversary of the United Nations. I can only 
marvel at the scale of that accomplishment. Not only has 
this institution grown from its original 51 Members to 
its current 193, but it has also expanded its work to take 
on a remarkable number of issues facing the world. Our 
debate here provides an excellent opportunity to reflect 
on what has made the Organization so successful.
I believe the reason for that success can be summed 
up in a single word: legitimacy. Only with legitimacy 
can we expect leaders from around the world to gather 
here  every  September.  Only  with  legitimacy  can  we 
expect the agreements we reach here to be implemented 
in the real world. However, legitimacy is a fragile thing. 
It  takes  decades  to  build,  but  can  be  lost  in  the  blink 
of an eye. Therefore, preserving and strengthening the 
legitimacy  of  this  institution  must  be  at  the  centre  of 
our work if the United Nations is to remain a powerful 
force for progressive change in the world. 
Therefore,  to  strengthen  the  legitimacy  of  the 
United  Nations,  I  propose  that  the  road  ahead  be 
guided  by  three  principles:  universality,  adaptability 
and accountability. We took an important step in that 
direction  last  week  with  the  adoption  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), 
which  demonstrates  our  ability  to  learn  from  past 
experience and create an approach that is better tailored 
to the needs and circumstances of all nations. 
The  Agenda  places  the  welfare  of  human  beings 
at  its  core  and  lays  out  a  comprehensive  set  of  Goals 
and targets to help empower every individual to realize 
his  or  her  full  potential.  This  moves  us  away  from 
looking at single indicators like gross domestic product 
or  income  per  capita  to  measure  human  progress  and 
focuses our work on building a more robust foundation 
for  sustainability  and  prosperity.  Education,  public 
health,  gender  equality,  clean  water,  oceans,  energy 
and, more importantly, a strong family unit — those are 
some of the blocks on which our future must be built.
For my country, the ocean is the source of almost 
all  development  possibilities.  Unlike  large  countries, 
we  do  not  have  a  diversified  portfolio  of  industries. 
Phosphate mining and fishing constitute the large bulk 
of economic possibilities for Nauru, along with less than 
a handful of other sources of income. It is all the more 
concerning, therefore, when vessels come to our waters 
and  engage  in  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
(IUU)  fishing.  Regional  estimates  put  earnings  lost 
to  IUU  at  anywhere  from  millions  to  over  $1  billion. 
For economies like ours, those numbers are staggering, 
and  if  we  are  to  be  true  to  the  2030  Agenda  and  the 
commitments  made  to  the  small  island  developing 
States, we must do much more to eliminate IUU fishing 
and  ensure  that  the  income  from  fishing  goes  to  the 
rightful resource owners.
That  and  other  issues  from  the  2030  Agenda  will 
require  us  to  rethink  the  way  we  cooperate  at  the 
international  level.  Our  international  and  regional 
bodies  must  be  fit  for  purpose.  The  universality  of 
that  endeavour  will  require  them  to  respect  national 
differences  and  move  away  from  one-size-fits-all 
15-29568
15/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
strategies.  Thematic  silos  must  be  replaced  by  cross-
cutting networks. Implementing agencies at every level 
must become both more nimble and more robust.
All partnerships — whether multilateral, bilateral 
or  public-private  —  must  be  based  on  mutual  respect 
that  recognizes  genuine  development  partners,  such 
as the Republic of China on Taiwan, a democracy that 
can contribute meaningfully towards development and 
prosperity  in  the  world.  Needless  to  say,  Taiwanese 
technology and know-how can make a lot of difference 
towards helping the needy, and, as such, I call for the 
inclusion of Taiwan in the development agencies of the 
United Nations.
Aid must be predictable and sustainable, It should 
not be wielded as a weapon to advance partisan political 
ends. Predatory relationships that pit one group against 
another  have  no  place  in  the  2030  Development 
Agenda.  History  has  demonstrated  that  openness  and 
engagement  have  proven  far  more  effective  strategies 
for positive change than isolation and exclusion. Only 
in  such  an  environment  can  we  hold  one  another 
accountable for the full implementation of the Agenda.
That is the vision that Nauru has embraced for the 
2030  Agenda,  and  back  home  we  are  taking  steps  to 
move forward. Like the United Nations itself, we will 
need  to  build  strong  domestic  institutions  to  achieve 
our  goals.  Their  legitimacy  will  similarly  rest  on 
their  inclusiveness,  adaptability  and  accountability. 
Therefore, in implementing the 2030 Agenda, we must 
go  beyond  capacity-building.  We  must  engage  in  the 
difficult task of institution-building. International and 
regional  agencies  and  development  partners  should 
back those efforts with real resources that include long-
term, in-country engagement when appropriate, so that 
they leave behind durable domestic institutions run by 
a skilled national workforce. 
Nauru  is  asking  for  a  lot  from  its  development 
partners.  We  want  to  be  better  partners  ourselves. 
And at the end of the day, implementation of the 2030 
Development  Agenda  will  happen  mostly  at  national 
and local level. On that note, let me thank our partners 
Australia,  Taiwan,  Russia,  Cuba  and  others  for  their 
support towards our sustainable development priorities. 
legitimacy  of 
international  institutions  must  extend  beyond  those 
most  directly  involved  in  the  2030  Development 
Agenda. The Security Council in particular must better 
reflect  the  geopolitical  realities  of  the  world  today. 
Our  efforts 
to 
improve 
the 
Therefore,  the  list  of  permanent  and  non-permanent 
members should be expanded. We support the inclusion 
of  Germany,  India,  Japan,  Brazil  and  others  in  the 
permanent category. In addition, the Security Council 
must continue to adapt and respond to the most pressing 
issues of today. That is why Nauru calls on it to make 
climate change a permanent agenda item. It should be 
supplemented  by  the  appointment  by  the  Secretary-
General  of  a  Special  Representative  on  climate  and 
security.  In  addition,  relevant  organs  of  the  United 
Nations should assess their capacity to respond to the 
security implications of climate change.
The governance of the Bretton Woods institutions 
should  also  be  made  more  representative,  with 
developing  countries  given  a  greater  presence.  The 
global  economy  has  become  more  reliant  on  the  flow 
of  international  capital,  and  with  the  frequency  of 
financial  crises  increasing,  the  legitimacy  of  those 
institutions will continue to be tested.
However,  climate  change  will  be  the  largest  test 
of  our  international  and  domestic  institutions.  We 
have  already  seen  how  some  climate  impacts  can 
overwhelm  the  capacity  of  even  the  most  powerful 
among us. Clearly, a strong, legally binding agreement 
in Paris is absolutely critical, with ambitious mitigation 
contributions from all countries. The agreement should 
be  guided  by  a  temperature-increase  goal  of  1.5°C, 
consistent with our vision of a safe and secure world. 
It must also ensure that climate financing is available 
for  adaptation,  particularly  for  the  most  vulnerable 
countries. And for dealing with the impacts that exceed 
our adaptation efforts, it should anchor an international 
mechanism on loss and damage. 
The United Nations was created 
“to save succeeding generations from the scourge 
of  war,  which  twice  in  our  lifetime  has  brought 
untold sorrow to mankind”. 
At  present,  climate  change, 
left  unaddressed, 
promises impacts no less catastrophic for many of our 
nations.
if 
Today  marks  the  lead-up  to  a  very  important 
milestone  in  my  people’s  history  —  the  seventieth 
anniversary of our return home. During the occupation 
of  my  country  in  the  Second  World  War,  Nauruans 
were forcibly evacuated to what is now Chuuk state in 
the Federated States of Micronesia. Due to widespread 
food shortages and the harsh conditions imposed by our 
16/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
captors, our population fell to below 1,500. We were in 
danger  of  extinction.  Nauruans  know  very  well  what 
happens  to  small,  vulnerable  countries  when  the  big 
ones  fail  to  address  their  problems  in  a  responsible 
manner.
I strongly believe that many of the major economic 
Powers want to reach an agreement at the twenty-first 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
(COP21) in Paris. Many have already come forward with 
meaningful mitigation contributions that will certainly 
require a great deal of effort to achieve. While we know 
it is not enough, I do not doubt their sincerity. However, 
I am starting to doubt whether they are willing and able 
to make the fundamental changes in their political and 
economic  systems  required  to  achieve  our  ambitious 
goals. The intense lobbying to accept an unsatisfactory 
outcome  has  already  begun,  and  in  the  international 
process, that has often meant that we will be presented 
with  a  take-it-or-leave  it  deal  at  COP21.  Would  such 
an  agreement  have  any  legitimacy?  Can  we  solve  the 
climate problem without it?
The  number  70  has  biblical  significance  in  the 
Christian  faith,  as  it  is  composed  of  the  numbers  7 
and 10. The number 7 often represents the concept of 
completeness, while the number 10 often refers to law 
and responsibility. It is fitting that during the seventieth 
session of the General Assembly we will complete our 
work  on  a  new  set  of  global  agreements  to  tackle  the 
challenges of our generation. The number 70 can also 
represent a period of judgement. We stand at a critical 
moment in history as civilization outstrips the natural 
boundaries of our planet. Our response during the next 
few years will determine the fate of future generations 
for the next thousand years. Will we continue to march 
to  an  inexorable  decline?  Or  will  we  join  together  to 
meet  the  challenges  before  us?  Thankfully,  we  still 
have  a  choice  ,and  the  widespread  recognition  of  the 
need for change I have heard during the past week gives 
me hope that we will make the right one.
May God bless the Republic of Nauru and may God 
bless the United Nations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Nauru for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Nauru, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Agila Saleh Essa Gwaider, Acting 
Head of State of Libya
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Acting Head 
of State of Libya.
Mr. Agila Saleh Essa Gwaider, Acting Head of State 
of Libya, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Agila Saleh 
Essa  Gwaider,  Acting  Head  of  State  of  Libya,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
Acting Head of State Gwaider (spoke in Arabic): 
As the General Assembly gathers this year, we celebrate 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations. 
Certainly, we have accomplished a lot during the past 
70  years  in  the  economic  field,  in  the  protection  of 
human  rights  and  in  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  However,  the  Organization  also 
experienced failures because of the lack of appropriate 
structures  to  effectively  deal  with  the  continuous 
increase in the magnitude and number of challenges as 
well as their nature, compared to those that existed at 
the founding of the United Nations. 
It  goes  without  saying  that  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  remains  the  first 
priority  for  the  Organization.  It  is  also  the  biggest 
challenge  we  face  in  an  evolving  world  that  is 
confronted  by  new  complications,  such  as  terrorism, 
the  proliferation  of  armed  conflicts,  natural  disasters 
and  climate  change.  All  these  result  in  humanitarian 
crises  that  have  manifested  themselves  in  different 
forms,  such  as  refugees,  internally  displaced  persons 
and illegal immigrants.
Today,  the  United  Nations  Member  States  are  in 
need  more  than  ever  of  consultation,  cooperation  and 
mutual  assistance  to  address  common  challenges  and 
to  ensure  a  better  future  for  the  generations  to  come. 
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  stipulates  that  the 
Organization was established to save future generations 
from  the  scourge  of  war.  However,  that  goal  remains 
elusive.  Although  armed  conflicts  between  nations 
15-29568
17/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
have  been  reduced,  ideological,  ethnic  and  sectarian 
conflicts within States continue to spread dramatically. 
That  spread 
is  accompanied  by  unprecedented 
violations of human rights over and above the spread of 
terrorist organizations. The emergence of terrorism is a 
key driver of conflict and instability in many countries, 
especially in the Middle East and Africa.
We  in  Libya  represent  a  fledgling  democracy 
seeking  to  find  its  way  in  order  to  take  hold  as  an 
added value in the minds of the people and to transform 
the  country  into  one  with  transparent,  democratic, 
effective and stable institutions. However, the spread of 
weapons and armed groups, some of which have turned 
to criminal and terrorist behaviour, in addition to the 
country’s  exploitation  by  some  people  with  personal 
interests, have all resulted in the spread of chaos in the 
country and weakened the central authority. In addition, 
that spread has constituted a real threat to democratic 
transformation  and  has  encouraged  the  emergence  of 
terrorist organizations and the recruitment of additional 
foreign terrorist fighters.
During  the  past  year,  Libya  has  witnessed  the 
emergence  of  the  so-called  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and 
the Levant, or Daesh, an outcome of and ally to Ansar 
al-Sharia,  which  asserts  control  over  the  towns  of 
Derna and Sirte, with a view to taking the two towns 
as  starting  points  to  assert  full  control  throughout 
Libya  and  to  exploit  Libya’s  resources  to  finance 
the  establishment  of  an  extremist  entity  that  refuses 
to  recognize  the  national  State  and  fights  against 
democracy. That entity harbours the aim of extending 
from Mauritania to Bangladesh, thereby subjecting the 
entire region to the law of the jungle, while claiming to 
follow the law of Islam. However, that ideology has been 
totally  rejected  and  resisted  by  the  Libyan  people  by 
way of every force available under the leadership of the 
legitimate authorities, represented by the elected House 
of Representatives and its duly formed Government. 
Those  groups  have  been  and  remain  an  essential 
part of the militia alliance of Libya Dawn, which has 
seized  the  capital,  Tripoli,  and  repeatedly  announced 
that  it  will  continue  to  support  Ansar  Al-Sharia  in 
Benghazi, while describing them as revolutionaries. 
We realize that all of those terrorist and extremist 
groups are nothing but tools to implement the policies of 
foreign countries that have persisted in providing them 
with  arms  and  ammunition.  Furthermore,  they  have 
facilitated the arrival of foreign fighters in Benghazi, 
Sirte and Derna, to participate in the fighting against 
the Libyan army, which is locked in a fierce war to rid 
Libya of terrorism by whatever modest means it has at 
its disposal.
The  efforts  of  the  Libyan  authorities  in  the  fight 
against  terrorism  and  to  protect  Libya  from  terrorist 
attacks  is  being  hampered  by  external  support  for 
terrorism activities, in addition to the continuing arms 
embargo and the insistence of the Security Council in 
contradicting  its  decisions  by  its  non-approval  of  the 
Libyan Government’s requests for an exemption from 
the arms embargo, in order to arm the Libyan army. 
Unfortunately, some of the permanent members of 
the Council have justified such conduct as if to avoid a 
negative impact on the Libyan political dialogue, which 
we understand has led to a draft political agreement on 
11  July  that  was  accepted  by  the  legitimate  authority 
after  it  made  significant  concessions,  and  initialled 
by  most  of  the  parties  involved.  However,  that  same 
agreement has been rejected by the so-called General 
National Congress (GNC), which represents the militias 
that  occupy  Tripoli.  Those  militias  are  allied  with 
Al-Qaida  and  Ansar  Al-Sharia,  supporting  them  with 
arms and fighters in the war against the Libyan army 
that is taking place in the cities of Benghazi and Derna.
The threat of terrorism on the part of the Islamic 
State,  Al-Qaida  and  Ansar  Al-Sharia  is  not  limited 
only  to  Libya.  The  terrorists  view  Libya  as  nothing 
more than a base camp rich with significant resources 
ripe for exploitation to finance its operations in North 
Africa and the Sahel region, as well as Europe, if they 
were to control it. All United Nations States Members 
should  be  aware  of  the  gravity  of  the  position  taken 
by  the  Security  Council.  Therefore,  with  respect 
to  matters  of  international  peace  and  security,  they 
should exercise pressure towards the lifting of the arms 
embargo on the Libyan army, accelerate the approval of 
the application for exemption from the arms embargo 
and provide assistance to the Libyan Government in the 
area of security, according to the provisions of Security 
Council resolution 2214 (2015).
I can assure the Assembly that nothing divides the 
Libyan people and that the vast majority is seeking any 
possible means to put an end to the unjustified fighting 
among brothers, and restore the security and stability 
of  the  country.  Nevertheless,  they  are  hostage  to  the 
armed groups, and thus unable to express their views.
18/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
Hundreds  of  thousands  of  Libyans  have  become 
internally  displaced  persons  or  refugees  aspiring  to 
return  to  their  homes  as  soon  as  possible.  That  could 
be  fulfilled  only  through  an  agreement  on  a  strong 
Government that enjoys the confidence of all Libyans, 
controls all of the Libyan territory and is supported by 
the international community. We appreciate the effort 
made by the United Nations Support Mission in Libya 
to  facilitate  dialogue  among  the  Libyan  parties  and 
form a Government of national accord that represents 
all Libyans, while placing the national interests above 
all other considerations.
The  House  of  Representatives,  as  the  legitimate 
authority  elected  by  all  Libyans,  was  and  remains 
supportive of dialogue as a strategic option to resolve 
the political and security crisis in Libya. The House of 
Representatives  made  every  possible  concessions  to 
encourage  the  illegitimate  party  to  disassociate  itself 
from terrorism and join the dialogue table, with the aim 
of sparing Libyans from more bloodshed and putting an 
end to the destruction of Libyan cities. 
However, we have noticed increasingly intransigent 
positions  and  misinterpretations  of  the  flexibility 
shown by the House of Representatives. It seems that 
such  flexibility  has  been  misunderstood,  even  by 
Mr.  Bernadino  León,  Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General, who tried to bring us back to square 
one  by  unraveling  all  that  had  been  achieved  in  the 
past  10  months  through  dialogue  and  negotiations.  In 
that regard, I want to emphasize from this rostrum the 
following.
The  House  of  Representatives  is  committed  to 
dialogue as an approach to resolving the security and 
institutional crisis in Libya, but it will not agree to any 
regression regarding that which has been approved by 
the majority so far.
No  agreement  may  be  imposed  on  a  future 
Government  to  take  any  step  whatsoever  in  favour 
of any terrorist organization that has been listed by a 
Security Council sanctions committee.
The war against terrorism in Benghazi, Derna and 
Sirte cannot be part of a ceasefire arrangement under 
the agreement, unless it includes surrender on the part 
of the terrorists and the turning in of their weapons.
The  House  of  Representatives  hopes  to  receive  a 
final  draft  of  an  agreement  that  does  not  reward  the 
perpetrators  of  crimes,  including  the  destruction  of 
State property and forced, armed seizure of the capital. 
In  the  case  of  the  continued  intransigence  of  the 
General National Congress in rejecting the agreement, 
the  House  of  Representatives  calls  on  the  boycotting 
members  to  advance  the  national  interests  and  the 
interests  of  their  constituents  on  any  and  all  matters. 
They  are  called  upon  to  disassociate  themselves 
from  the  extremist  militias  and  to  join  the  House  of 
Representatives in order to participate in the selection 
of  an 
inclusive  Government  of  national  accord 
that  excludes  the  terrorist  groups.  We  call  on  the 
international  community  to  exercise  influence  in  that 
direction.
This  year,  the  Mediterranean  Sea  has  witnessed 
an  unprecedented  wave  of  illegal  migration  coming 
from  Africa  and  Asia  and  heading  towards  Europe. 
Sadly, we have taken note of the loss of thousands of 
lives  by  drowning  at  sea.  In  that  regard,  we  express 
our  condolences  and  sympathy  to  the  families  of  the 
victims. 
We  reiterate  Libya’s  position  in  support  of  all 
international  efforts  seeking  to  reduce  the  risks  to 
illegal migrants in the Mediterranean, based on respect 
for  the  principles  of  international  law,  particularly 
respect  for  sovereignty  and  non-interference  in  the 
internal affairs of States. 
We express Libya’s readiness to contribute, within 
the limits of its capacity, to prevent the smuggling of 
migrants and to rescue lives in the Mediterranean. We 
also  emphasize  that  the  humanitarian  crisis  must  be 
addressed  comprehensively,  in  consultation  with  the 
countries of origin, transit and destination, and while 
taking into account the need to address the root causes 
of illegal migration in general and reasons for the large 
increase  in  the  numbers  of  migrants  passing  through 
Libya in recent months.
The  security  approach  to  the  problem  of  migrant 
smuggling  is  insufficient.  Libya  believes  that  using 
force against smuggling boats off the Libyan coast may 
increase the complexity of the Libyan crisis, and will not 
contribute to reducing the migrant phenomenon. That 
can be achieved only by providing the legitimate Libyan 
Government  with  the  capacity  to  extend  its  authority 
over  all  Libyan  territory  andto  control  its  borders, 
including  the  necessary  capacity-building  assistance 
in that area, especially the arming of the Libyan army 
with the necessary equipment and training. 
15-29568
19/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
Libya cautions against any foreign military activity 
conducted  without  its  consent  and  control  in  Libyan 
territorial  waters  or  within  its  exclusive  economic 
zone that could harm fishing activities and lead to the 
plundering of its marine living resources.
Peace in the Middle East cannot be achieved in the 
midst of the ongoing Israeli occupation of the Palestinian 
territories,  which  denies  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people  and  seeks  in  all  possible  ways  to  Judaize  the 
city of Jerusalem. The occupation flies in the face of all 
international resolutions on the inalienable rights of the 
Palestinian people, in particular on the right of return 
and the right to establish an independent State with full 
sovereignty  over  its  territory,  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
its capital.
Libya  demands  that  the  siege  imposed  on  the 
Palestinian people be lifted and that they be provided 
with protection. The Israeli occupation authorities must 
be compelled to stop all acts of violence and intimidation 
against  the  Palestinian  people  and  to  comply  with  all 
international resolutions, especially with regard to the 
return of refugees to their homes and the cessation of 
settlement activities and of the repeated attacks against 
the holy sanctuary of Al-Haram Al-Sharif in Jerusalem.
We condemn all atrocities against the Syrian people 
and  express  our  support  for  all  international  efforts 
aimed at finding a peaceful settlement that will affirm 
the  rights  of  the  Syrian  people  to  live  in  a  dignified 
and democratic system that respects human rights and 
fundamental freedoms.
With regard to brotherly Yemen, we hope that the 
Arab  coalition  will  restore  security  and  stability  to 
Yemen and help reach a peaceful solution to the crisis, 
under the supervision of its legitimate Government and 
on the basis of Security Council resolution 2216 (2015). 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Acting Head of State of Libya for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr. Agila Saleh Essa Gwaider, Acting Head of State 
of Libya, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Christopher J. Loeak, President of 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Mr. Christopher J. Loeak, President of the Republic 
of  the  Marshall  Islands,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Christopher 
J.  Loeak,  President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall 
Islands, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Loeak:  I  bring  the  General  Assembly 
the  warm  greetings  of  “Yokwe”  from  the  people  and 
nation of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
The  United  Nations  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1)  and  its  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  offer  small  island  States 
a  powerful  tool  with  which  to  shape  and  adjust  our 
own domestic strategies. The international community 
has  spoken,  and  a  changing  world  is  mapping  a 
visionary landscape that reaches into the distant years 
that  have  too  rarely  been  part  of  our  own  national 
discussions  —  beyond  2020,  beyond  2023,  towards 
2030 and even farther, to the middle of the century.
In adopting the SDGs, the Marshall Islands cannot 
afford  a  set-it-and-forget-it  mentality,  which  has  too 
often marked past international efforts. We now have a 
powerful opportunity in which to merge recent national 
planning  improvements  and  construct  an  architecture 
for measuring progress and pinpointing gaps. Such gaps 
are  not  only  our  own,  but  also  those  of  our  partners. 
Too  often,  we  have  —  all  of  us  —  operated  with 
goodwill, but without accountability for our collective 
performance.  Our  post-2023  national 
trust  fund 
deserves a strong support system and also represents an 
opportunity, if we use it, to work towards specific goals 
and benchmarks. If we can jointly harness our national 
and global priorities, if we can commit our own efforts 
and  national  resources,  however  small  they  may  be 
right now, and if our close partners can work with us to 
restructure assistance-delivery to target the SDGs, then 
my nation too can climb the development ladder.
I  welcome  the  establishment  of  a  comprehensive 
assistance  programme  with  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency that will not only enhance our national 
20/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
capacity  to  monitor  and  evaluate  serious  issues  of 
nuclear contamination but that will also address health 
strategies and other key SDG benchmarks.
The  Marshall  Islands  faces  some  of  the  more 
complex development, security and planning challenges 
in  the  world,  but  we  lack  the  full  tools  available  to 
tackle them. A nation struggling to attain basic social 
development goals will not be equipped to resolve any 
other challenge.
Progress  in  education  is  key.  Firm  efforts  are 
under way to correct our course and to provide better 
opportunities for our youngest and future generations. 
We  have  found  new  pathways  for  building  on  our 
traditional  knowledge  and  culture  to  enable  our 
education  system  to  draw  on  our  own  Pacific  story 
and  strength.  But  our  efforts  and  good  intentions 
alone cannot ensure that every willing student has an 
opportunity to succeed. We need international support.
The  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  has  one  of 
the  world’s  highest  rates  of  diabetes,  which  has  led 
my  Government  to  declare  a  state  of  emergency. 
Non-communicable  diseases  remain  a  primary  threat 
to  our  national  well-being.  Without  transformative 
partnerships, and without extending more closely to our 
shores  the  renewed  United  Nations  2008-2013  Action 
Plan  for  the  Global  Strategy  for  the  Prevention  and 
Control of Noncommunicable Diseases, we risk a tragic 
downward spiral.
The 
term  developing  nation 
implies  forward 
movement,  yet  for  far  too  long  the  Marshall  Islands 
has  been  only  treading  water.  We  have  promising 
opportunities  and  aspirations  for 
improving  our 
investment platforms, but our untapped yet substantial 
resource base is often coloured by larger international 
influence.
Our fisheries represent not only a vital sector for 
our  own  development,  but  also  a  wider  contribution 
to  international  food  security,  because  the  Pacific 
is  steward  of  half  the  world’s  commercial  tuna.  Our 
foreign fishing nation partners, who not by accident are 
also the drivers of global influence, have held the purse 
to  our  own  future  for  far  too  long.  Key  stocks  in  the 
Pacific are being plundered at unsustainable rates that 
jeopardize our future.
Already, higher returns from foreign licenses have 
benefited our own national fiscal future, yet that is only 
a fraction of the true potential. It is unacceptable that, 
on the one hand, we are expected to achieve the SDGs 
and  to  demonstrate  dramatic  development  progress 
while, on the other hand, we are blocked from further 
gains from our own resources by the self-interestas of 
distant fishing nations.
The  Marshall  Islands  and  the  States  parties  to 
the  Nauru  Agreement  Concerning  Cooperation  in  the 
Management  of  Fisheries  of  Common  Interest  remain 
firmly  committed  to  the  benefits  of  the  Vessel  Day 
Scheme and targeted high seas closures as a condition 
for fishing our waters. The tables have turned and, if 
others wish to fish our waters, they must now do so on 
our own sovereign terms.
As a low-lying island nation with no higher ground, 
climate  change  poses  a  severe  threat  to  our  security. 
Some  have  said  that  there  is  no  more  hope  and  no 
more  time.  I  forcefully  disagree.  The  future  of  my 
nation — the future of our very land — may rest more 
in  the  hands  of  my  fellow  world  leaders  than  in  my 
own.  There  is  still  hope  —  hope  that  my  nation  will 
be able to tackle the most difficult planning challenges 
and to build resilience wherever we can, and hope that 
the  world  will  not  turn  a  blind  eye.  I  can  assure  the 
United  Nations  that  the  Marshall  Islands  refuses  the 
very notion that we would willingly relocate wholesale 
to another country, or resign ourselves to saying that if 
the water comes, it comes. 
As  we  move  to  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change (UNFCCC) later this year, in Paris, I am proud 
that  climate  change  is  now  recognized  by  all  world 
leaders  as  a  reality  that  deserves,  and  is  receiving,  a 
firm and collective response. Everyone must act. Many, 
including  my  own  nation,  have  already  committed 
to  emissions  cuts  well  into  the  future  of  2025,  2030 
and  beyond.  But  the  world’s  initial  efforts  are  falling 
significantly short. Instead of indifference or fumbled 
excuses, we must achieve true leadership that provides 
a direct response to closing the global emissions gap.
As  the  broader  United  Nations  debates  Security 
Council  reform  to  adjust  it  the  modern  world,  the 
nations  that  portray  themselves  as  deserving  leaders 
have  an  excellent  opportunity  to  demonstrate  their 
leadership by not ducking the bill or pointing fingers, 
but by embracing the challenge of the global emissions 
gap.  They  should  begin  to  speak  about  opportunities 
for  new  forms  of  energy,  instead  of  dancing  around 
perceived  threats  to  growth.  For  the  island  nations,  a 
15-29568
21/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
world  without  a  true  commitment  to  decarbonization 
and  meaningful  strategies  for 
is 
ultimately no world at all.
its  attainment 
As dramatically different as our landscape is today, 
the tensions of an earlier age continue to resonate, from 
the time when the Pacific islands region served as the 
horrific  theatre  for  a  global  power  struggle.  Decades 
later, we again face the complex push-and-pull of larger 
international politics. Our regional baseline is often one 
of severe fragility. We have sharp exposure to external 
shocks, and some of our emerging and future security 
challenges  not  only  extend  beyond  our  capacity  but 
push the envelope of international precedent. 
The treatment of our security as small-island and 
large  ocean  nations  cannot  be  considered  apart  from 
that of much larger interaction across the Pacific. Some 
may  view  political  alliances,  borders  and,  in  some 
cases,  significant  marine  mineral  resources  as  mere 
possessions ready to be plucked by the highest bidder 
or the strongest military force, just as one might pick 
ripe fruit from a tree. That contradicts the spirit of the 
Charter of the United Nations.
I offer my firm support for the initiative proposed 
by New Zealand during its Security Council presidency, 
when  it  convened  a  Council  meeting  on  small  island 
developing  States  and  threats  to  international  peace 
and  security  (see  S/PV.7499).  That  meeting  revealed 
issues that slip under the global radar but that cannot 
be  ignored.  I  urge  the  Council’s  establishment  of  a 
regular agenda item on security issues in small island 
developing States.
I am proud to announce the formal establishment, 
earlier  this  week,  of  diplomatic  relations  between  the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands and Cuba. 
Everyone  should  participate  on  the  international 
stage.  The  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  supports 
Taiwan’s  meaningful  participation  in  the  specialized 
agencies  of  the  United  Nations,  including  the  World 
Health  Organization,  the  International  Civil  Aviation 
Organization  and  the  UNFCCC.  It  is  imperative  that 
the  global  community  fully  recognize  and  evaluate 
Taiwan’s important commitment to reduce its emissions. 
Furthermore,  I  call  for  Taiwan’s  involvement  in  the 
implementation of the post-2015 development agenda, 
and urge recognition of the important assistance it has 
provided to my country in the areas of health, education 
and  energy.  The  Marshall  Islands  welcomes  Taiwan’s 
efforts  as  a  regional  peacemaker,  including  in  cross-
that  awareness  of 
strait  issues,  and  urges  that  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations recognize and encourage such progress. 
Like  many  other  countries,  the  Republic  of  the 
Marshall  Islands  believes 
the 
catastrophic  impacts  and  humanitarian  consequences 
of  nuclear  weapons  must  underpin  all  efforts  towards 
nuclear  disarmament.  As  a  former  United  Nations 
Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Republic of 
the  Marshall  Islands  has  a  unique  legacy  shared  only 
by a few other nations. Even while the United Nations 
was  supposed  to  be  furthering  our  development,  67 
nuclear  tests  were  conducted  in  our  nation  between 
1946 and 1958 by our former administering Power, the 
United  States  of  America,  under  our  United  Nations 
trusteeship  status,  including  through  authorization 
under  two  United  Nations  resolutions.  That  was  the 
only time the United Nations ever explicitly authorized 
the use of nuclear weapons, and the results were, and 
remain, beyond tragic.
If  our  own  past  and  its  contemporary  impact 
continue  to  bear  that  heavy  burden,  the  whole  world 
should know our story. I would therefore strongly urge 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to include the powerful 
and  specific  example  of  the  Marshall  Islands  and  the 
related  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  his  statements 
aimed at encouraging progress on nuclear disarmament 
and test bans.
It  is  essential  for  the  survival  of  humankind 
that  nuclear  weapons  never  be  used  again  under  any 
circumstances.  The  universal  way  to  accomplish  that 
is through the total elimination of such weapons. I am 
deeply disappointed that political distractions resulted 
in the lack of an outcome from the Review Conference 
of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons earlier this year. It should be our goal 
as  the  United  Nations  not  only  to  stop  the  spread  of 
nuclear weapons but also to pursue peace and security 
in a world without them.
This year, I look forward to a truly united United 
Nations  with  the  courage  not  only  to  address  the 
immediate  emergencies  at  hand  but  also  to  move  us 
forward into our dynamic century.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  for 
the statement he has just made.
22/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
Mr. Christopher J. Loeak, President of the Republic 
of  the  Marshall  Islands,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, President of the 
Union of the Comoros
The  Acting  President (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Union of the Comoros.
Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, President of the Union of the 
Comoros, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Ikililou  Dhoinine,  President  of  the  Union  of  the 
Comoros, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Dhoinine  (spoke  in  French):  As  I  take 
the floor for the last time before the General Assembly 
after five years in office as President of the Union of the 
Comoros, I wish to discharge the duty of conveying to 
the General Assembly a message of solidarity from the 
Comoran people. In the name of the Government of the 
Comoros, and on my own behalf, I would also like to 
express our sincerest thanks to Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-Moon and to all those who have helped to make our 
stay in New York so warm, in particular the authorities 
of  the  United  States  of  America.  Lastly,  I  would  like 
to  congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  to  lead 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session,  the 
importance of which is manifestly clear.
This  session  opens  at  a  crucial  moment  in  the 
development of humankind. Since man first appeared 
on Earth, we are the first generation in the vast expanse 
of time — perhaps 3 million years after the appearance 
of our remote ancestors — to be aware of the physical 
laws that govern us and of the unfortunate effects of the 
irrational use of natural resources. As in 1918, after the 
Great  War,  that  incomparable  horror,  and  as  in  1945, 
after the victory over fascism, that base ideology, but 
also  as  in  the  1990s,  when  we  faced  the  absurdity  of 
an arms race in weapons of mass destruction, today as 
before, nothing prevents us from uniting to effectively 
combat pollution and poverty.
As world leaders aware of our responsibility in the 
face  of  impending  disaster,  we  must  rationally  work 
here and now to save humankind, and we are capable of 
doing so. We must take advantage of this unprecedented 
international setting to harness the efforts of all nations 
to  make  our  planet  sustainable  and  equitable  before 
2030,  through  a  programme  of  surpassing  ambition. 
Therefore, at the moment when the Assembly has just 
adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution  70/1),  I  wish  to  commend  the  outstanding 
and consistent work that was done under the impetus of 
the Secretary-General.
My  country,  the  Union  of  the  Comoros,  fully 
endorses  the  agreed  Agenda,  which  consolidates  the 
gains  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  while 
paving  the  way  to  a  new  era  through  17  Sustainable 
Development Goals to be met over the next 15 years. We 
must therefore commit ourselves to putting a definitive 
end  to  poverty  in  all  its  forms,  to  eradicating  hunger 
and  to  promoting  sustainable  agriculture  in  order  to 
guarantee food security, good health and the well-being 
of all all. We must also guarantee a quality education 
for  all  without  exception,  promote  lifelong  learning 
opportunities for all and ensure gender equality, as well 
as the full empowerment of women.
It  is  also  our  duty  to  ensure  the  availability, 
sustainable  management  and  cleanliness  of  water 
for  all  and  to  guarantee  access  to  clean,  affordable 
and  sustainable  energy  in  order  to  promote  sustained 
economic  growth.  To  that  end,  several  countries 
should  immediately  begin  work  on  major  projects  to 
build  resilient  infrastructure,  to  promote  sustainable, 
inclusive industrialization and to encourage innovation 
everywhere  that  will  reduce  inequalities  within  and 
among countries. We cannot imagine that humankind 
will  thrive  on  Earth  unless  urgent  action  is  taken 
to  combat  climate  change  and  its  impacts,  while 
conserving and sustainably using the oceans, seas and 
marine resources for sustainable development.
It  is  in  this  way  that  we  will  promote  the 
sustainable  use  of  terrestrial  ecosуstems,  manage 
forests  sustainably,  combat  desertification,  combat 
and  halt  land  degradation  and  put  an  end  to  the  loss 
of biodiversity. We will need to find ways and means 
to continue to build peace throughout the world in the 
framework  of  sustainable  development.  And  we  must 
have  access  to  justice  for  all,  and  establish  effective 
and  accountable  institutions  at  all  levels.  Lastly,  we 
must  build  a  world  without  poverty  or  inequalities,  a 
sustainable  world  through  a  new  road  map  that  will 
save  humankind.  Therefore  let  us  take  on  ambitious 
goals, for our very survival depends on it.
15-29568
23/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
As I stressed earlier, we face a situation similar to 
that  which  our  very  close  ancestors  experienced  with 
sadness and suffering, but against which they struggled 
until  victory  was  achieved.  I  call  it  slavery,  a  system 
that  almost  exterminated  a  large  part  of  humankind, 
quite  simply  because  one  side  thought  itself  superior 
to all the others. We face a situation somewhat similar 
to  that  experienced  by  our  countries  during  the  two 
world wars, but for which our peoples gave their lives 
with  courage  and  temerity  until  the  final  victory 
to  save  humankind  from  chaos.  We  face  legitimate 
questions  that  were  asked  by  our  ancestors  when,  for 
half  a  century,  they  powerlessly  bore  witness  to  an 
arms  race  that  was  leading  humankind  inexorably 
towards its own destruction, but where common sense 
eventually  prevailed.  We  face  a  situation  akin  to  that 
faced  by  almost  all  African  countries,  including  my 
own, which for decades were subjected to the misdeeds 
of colonialism, but against which the valiant peoples of 
Africa, Latin America and Asia fought until acquiring 
their  sovereignty  and 
their 
territories,  thereby  saving  humankind  from  indignity, 
decadence and shame.
independence  of 
the 
Today, 
the  world 
following 
is  directly 
the 
consequences  of  wars  that  forced  millions  of  men, 
women and children to leave their homelands, to board 
makeshift boats and to take refuge and live in inhumane 
conditions, and sometimes even to remain indigent. If 
we add to that the barbaric acts perpetrated by terrorist 
movements, which are increasing throughout the world, 
especially  in  Africa,  it  is  time  for  that  international 
community  to  speak  with  one  voice  and  with  firm 
conviction and to decisively say, “never again”.
In  a  world  of  complete  deprivation,  where  each 
nation  must  take  part  in  safeguarding  international 
security, how can we, in a small country like mine, be 
engaged in the fight if, at the same time, we must be on 
the  front  lines  to  defend  our  dignity,  which  has  been 
disregarded  by  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council of the Organization, whose primary role is to 
ensure compliance with the norms of international law?
I must underscore that the Union of the Comoros is 
the only country in the world, which, at the time of its 
accession to independence, did not benefit from respect 
for the law. Unlike all former colonies, the archipelago 
of  the  Comoros,  composed  of  the  islands  of  Mayotte, 
Anjouan,  Moheli  and  Grande  Comore,  which  was 
admitted to the United Nations as an independant State 
and subjected to international law, has been separated 
from a part of its territory by the former colonial Power, 
France,  in  contravention  of  all  norms  and  principles 
governing international relations.
Those  present  here  will  recall  that,  against  the 
will of the Comorian people, France exercised its veto 
and continues to exercise its power over our territory. 
Given what is happening in Eastern Europe today, we 
wonder  what  significance  the  European  Union  gives 
to compliance with international law by accepting the 
Comorian island of Mayotte as a European outermost 
region, contrary to the relevant resolutions of the African 
Union, the League of Arab States, the Organization of 
Islamic Cooperation and the Non-Aligned Movement.
At previous sessions, I informed the Assembly that 
we  had  signed  a  political  declaration  with  President 
François Hollande in Paris that enabled us to hope that 
bilaterally  a  solution  could  be  found  that  would  give 
Comorians  back  their  dignity.  Unfortunately,  to  date 
France has refused to acknowledge that all Comorians, 
from  whichever  island  they  come,  may  freely  move 
around  the  islands.  Separated  families,  abandoned 
minors,  displacements  of  populations  in  makeshift 
boats,  precisely  as  is  occurring  in  the  Mediterranean 
Sea  —  all  of  that  leads  me  to  urge  the  Secretary-
General  to  demand  the  application  of  international 
law,  as  France  itself  is  rightly  claims  each  time  that 
international  norms  governing  international  life  are 
contravened.
Of  course,  the  main  objective  of  the  high  joint 
council  established  between  France  and  the  Comoros 
is  to  facilitate  bilateral  dialogue  and  rebuild  the  trust 
that  had  disappeared  between  the  two  countries. 
However, we must note that the main mission assigned 
to  that  Council  —  facilitating  movement  of  goods 
and  peoples  —  has  still  not  been  accomplished.  By 
continuing  to  defy  international  law  on  the  issue  of 
the Comorian Island of Mayotte, France has prevented 
the expected results and progress from being achieved 
in  the  dialogue  between  the  two  parties.  From  this 
rostrum,  therefore,  I  once  again  appeal  to  the  French 
authorities  for  us  together  to  find  ways  and  means  to 
put an end this human tragedy, which every day causes 
Comorian  families  to  plunge  into  mourning.  I  also 
address the community of nations, which those in this 
Hall represent, to ask that international law be applied 
so that a lasting solution to this dispute can be found.
With political will, nothing is impossible. I therefore 
welcome  the  fact  that  Palestine  has  finally  been  able 
24/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
to hoist its flag at the United Nations. I also welcome 
the fact that Cuba and United States of America have 
proved that, even after half a century of conflict, States 
can find formulas adapted to overcome deadlocks and 
foresee  a  peaceful  future  for  their  peoples.  Lastly,  I 
welcome  the  historic  agreement  concluded  between 
Iran  and  the  countries  of  the  P5+1  on  the  nuclear 
issue,  which  augurs  well  for  a  calmer  international 
cooperation.
In  a  few  months,  after  five  years  in  office  in  a 
rotating  presidency  that  fell  to  the  island  of  Moheli, 
a  Comorian  from  the  island  of  Grand  Comore  will 
succced  me,  in  accordance  with  our  Constitution.  In 
that  electoral  democratic  process  under  way,  I  would 
appeal  for  support  from  the  international  community 
and from the friends of the Comoros for the victory of 
our  young  democracy.  I  also  appeal  to  everyone  here 
that,  after  the  scheduled  elections,  Member  States 
will support our country on the path towards stability, 
development and well-being of the Comorian people.
As  my  country  stands  ready,  after  40  years  of 
independence, to begin the second phase of its history, 
I remain confident that in the future the next President 
of the Comoros will be able to say from this rostrum of 
free countries,
“We  have  now  achieved  the  territorial  integrity 
and unity of my country, the Comoros, within its 
borders inherited from colonization.”
I also remain confident that my successor will be able 
to say from this rostrum of free countries,
“I  thank  the  United  Nations  for  having  actively 
acted  for  the  achievement  of  the  main  goals 
inscribed in our common Charter.” 
Lastly,  I  remain  confident  that  a  President  from  the 
Comoros will be able to say to his compatriots from the 
four islands,
“The time has come for all of us to work together 
to build our free, open and prosperous country, one 
which is confident in its future and in its people’s 
destiny.”
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Union of the Comoros for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, President of the Union of the 
Comoros, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Teodoro Nguema Obiang 
Mangue, Vice-President of the Republic of 
Equatorial Guinea
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear a statement by the Vice-President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea.
Mr. Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mangue, Vice-President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President (spoke  in  Spanish): I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr. Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mangue, Vice-President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.
Mr. Obiang Nguema Obiang Mangue (Equatorial 
Guinea)  (spoke in Spanish):  It  is  a  pleasure  for  me  to 
take the floor before the General Assembly on behalf of 
His Excellency Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  who, 
due to numerous duties of State, is not able to be here 
today.
Equatorial  Guinea  is  participating  at  this  session 
of  the  General  Assembly  in  a  renewed  spirit  of  faith 
and trust in the relevant role played by the Organization 
in  promoting  peace,  security  and  stability  among  our 
nations  in  order  to  create  the  basic  conditions  for  the 
well-being of humankind. Motivated by that trust, my 
delegation wishes to warmly congratulate Mr. Mogens 
Lykketoft for his unanimous election, which reflects the 
trust that the international community has in the rigour 
shown  by  his  country  in  its  treament  of  international 
affairs. I am sure that, during his tenure as President of 
the General Assembly, he will always be able to count 
on  the  support  and  cooperation  of  the  Government 
of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea.  We  would  like 
also to congratulate Mr. Sam Kutesa, President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-ninth  session,  for  the 
commendable  work  carried  out  during  his  term,  with 
the  important  decisions  taken  that  will  trace  out  the 
path for the United Nations towards the democratization 
and revitalization of its institutions, as well as for the 
15-29568
25/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
universal scope of its decisions. I would also like to take 
this  opportunity  to  warmly  congratulate  Secretary-
General Ban Ki Moon for his tireless efforts to face up 
to the complex challenges facing the Organization. We 
extend to him our support and cooperation to achieve 
every success in his endeavours.
Despite  the  attempts  of  some  to  monopolize  the 
United Nations system with their undeclared interests, 
the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  has  never  lost  its 
faith and confidence in the relevant role that the United 
Nations  must  play  with  regard  to  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security and in the promotion 
of fundamental human rights to guarantee the overall 
well-being  of  humankind.  The  United  Nations  is  the 
only  world  body  in  which  all  States  must  have  faith 
and trust, as is stated in its Charter. All countries are 
represented  according  to  the  principle  of  sovereign 
equality  among  States, 
the  democratic 
principle  of  respect  for  the  majority  opinion  and  for 
countries’ own decisions.
including 
The events that have occurred in the first quarter 
century  of  this  century  show  a  degree  of  weakness 
in  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  when  it  comes  to 
preventing  and  eliminating  conflicts  between  States, 
in the maintenance of international peace and security 
and in promoting the economic well-being of States. We 
are  concerned  at  the  proliferation  of  armed  conflicts 
in  Africa,  Europe  and  the  Middle  East,  as  well  as 
instability caused in countries of the developing world; 
the progressive advance of of terrorism in various parts 
of  the  world;  and  drug  trafficking  and  uncontrolled 
immigration caused by those conflicts. All that would 
suggest that the United Nations has much more to do. 
Its Members must act in solidarity and according to the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter,  which  should 
unite them in their actions.
In  our  view,  the  United  Nations  is  not  a  police 
force  acting  to  avert  conflicts  between  States.  The 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  must  submit 
themselves  to  the  norms  of  international  law,  to 
justice  and  respect  for  human  rights,  as  well  as  strict 
respect  for  those  standards.  Consequently,  they  must 
work  towards  peace,  stability  and  the  development  of 
nations.However, today it would appear that the law of 
the  strongest  and  the  most  astute  prevails,  a  situation 
that naturally leads to rebellions, which could lead to 
terrorist movements.
We believe that the success of the United Nations 
does  not  depend  on  the  skill  of  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  or  of  the  heads  of  United  Nations 
organs, or much less does it depend on the intelligence 
of  the  Secretary-General.  Many  of  the  denunciations 
made against the actions, purposes and principles of the 
Charter of the United Nations happen on a daily basis, 
without  those  leaders  being  in  the  least  concerned, 
because they feel that their interests lie above those of 
the principles of the United Nations.
The  results  are  before  our  very  eyes:  the  large 
number of wars and conflicts that give rise to refugees 
and  concentration  camps  and  the  massive  migrations 
of people loking for a place of refuge in countries that 
have a degree of stability and economic prosperity. The 
drop in the price of oil and other internationally traded 
commodities  has  a  negative  effect  on  the  economic 
development  of  producer  countries.  That  is  the  result 
of  the  pillaging  recorded  in  the  countries  that  have 
fallen victim to armed conflicts, the natural resources 
of which are being seized as trophies of war. Certainly, 
we  are  reaping  the  bad  fruits  of  our  own  negative 
destructive action, and that is not in line with the aims 
of the United Nations.
Equatorial  Guinea  is  a  small  African  country 
that  survives  thanks  to  the  cautious  approach  of  its 
Government,  the  good  graces  of  its  people  and  the 
cooperation  and  solidarity  of  friendly  countries.  We 
have  suffered  attempted  invasions  by  mercenaries, 
supported  by  weapons-producing  Powers  who  had 
no  other  aim  in  mind  than  to  take  control  of  our  oil 
resources.  Fortunately,  however,  the  preventive  and 
precautionary  measures  that  we  took  put  an  end  to 
the schemes of the aggressors. Not satisfied with that 
aggression, our country is now subject to a systematic 
campaign of unfounded accusations concerning human 
rights violations and abject poverty. We are not ashamed 
to  denounce  those  accusations  here,  because  the 
Republic of Equatorial Guinea is open to the world and 
everyone is familiar with our successful achievements 
in sociopolitical development.
With the programme adopted by the United Nations 
on the Millennium Development Goals having come to 
an end, Equatorial Guinea is pleased to have achieved 
greater levels through the implementation of the Goals. 
Equatorial  Guinea’s  Development  Plan  —  “Horizon 
2020”  —  sets  out  the  following  goals:  to  build 
international standards of basic infrastructure in order 
to improve productivity and speed up economic growth; 
26/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
to strengthen human capital and improve the quality of 
life of our citizens; to build a diversified economy based 
on four sectors, energy and mining sector, fishing and 
aquaculture,  agriculture  and  livestock  farming,  and, 
finally,  the  service  sector;  and  to  establish  quality 
governance at the service of the citizen. Success thus 
far  in  the  implementation  of  that  programme  made 
it  possible  for  us  to  achieve  the  priority  Millennium 
Development Goals.
With  regard  to  the  reform  of  the  organs  of  the 
United  Nations,  Equatorial  Guinea  reaffirms  its  firm 
commitment  to  the  African  Union  position,  based  on 
the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration, 
consisting in the demand for two permanent seats and 
five non-permanent seats on the Security Council, with 
all the obligations, rights and privileges that those seats 
entail.
like 
to 
take 
We  would 
to 
congratulate the Governments of the United States of 
America and the Republic of Cuba for the restoration of 
diplomatic relations. We ask that this culminates in the 
lifting of the embargo against Cuba.
this  opportunity 
With regard to climate change, Equatorial Guinea 
fully shares the concern of the rest of the international 
community,  namely,  that  the  very  existence  of  planet 
Earth is under threat. In order to combat this everyone 
should contribute according to their abilities to arrest 
this  phenomenon.  That  being  the  case,  the  Amazon 
area,  in  South  America,  and  the  Congo  Basin,  in 
Central Africa, which constitute the world’s lungs for 
the  preservation  of  the  environment  and  biodiversity, 
deserve special attention at the upcoming twenty-first 
session  of  the  Conference  of  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 
Paris.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  expressing  our 
wholehearted  willingness  as  a  State  Member  of  the 
United  Nations  to  contribute  to  all  processes  that 
would  help  to  improve  the  functioning  of  this  world 
Organization.  We  wish  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly every success.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea, 
for the statement he has just made
Mr. Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mangue, Vice-President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Miro Cerar, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Slovenia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Slovenia.
Mr. Miro Cerar, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Slovenia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Miro 
Cerar, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Cerar (Slovenia): We are at a historic junction 
for the United Nations, which will turn 70 next month. 
This occasion is an opportunity for stocktaking of the 
Organization’s past achievements, missed opportunities 
and  challenges  ahead.  The  United  Nations  has  been 
making  outstanding  efforts  in  paving  the  road  ahead 
for  peace,  security  and  human  rights.  At  the  same 
time, profound changes have taken place in these seven 
decades.  The  United  Nations  has  been  successful  in 
adapting to some, whereas it lacked creativity, political 
will and flexibility to effectively face others.
Ten years ago, leaders met here in New York with 
a vision to increase and promote international security 
and  advance  human  rights  and  development  with  a 
bold plan known as the 2005 World Summit Outcome 
Documen, which led to the establishment of the Human 
Rights  Council  and  Peacebuilding  Commission.  We 
collectively endorsed the concept of the responsibility 
to  protect  human  beings  from  mass  atrocities  and 
systematic  violations  of  human  rights.  We  have 
also  committed  to  reform  the  Security  Council,  as 
well  to  revitalize  the  General  Assembly,  as  part  of  a 
comprehensive,  overall  reform  of  the  Organization. 
The  United  Nations  has  to  continue  to  adapt  to  new 
challenges,  and  it  would  therefore  be  important  to 
make  progress  in  that  respect.  We  have  the  mandate 
and  responsibility  to  act,  based  on  global  solidarity 
and the vision of a fairer and more secure international 
community.
We  welcome  the  adoption  of  the  Addis  Ababa 
Action Agenda and of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development (resolution 70/1). However, by the end of 
15-29568
27/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
the year, at the twenty-first session of the Conference 
of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change Conference, in Paris, we will need 
to  adopt  an  ambitious,  durable,  universal  and  legally 
binding  climate  agreement  that  addresses  mitigation, 
adaptation, financing and technology development in a 
balanced and cost-effective manner.
Slovenia  remains  strongly  engaged  in  protecting 
the  environment  and  in  ensuring  its  sustainability, 
both  in  national  and  international  contexts.  Based 
on  our  extensive  experience  with  beekeeping,  and  in 
view  of  multiple  threats  to  bee  populations,  we  wish 
to  raise  awareness  of  the  critical  importance  of  bees 
for  sustainable  food  production  and  biodiversity.  The 
Slovenian Government therefore decided to propose the 
proclamation  of  “World  Bee  Day”,  for  which  we  will 
seek the endorsement of the United Nations.
There  can  be  no  security  or  economic  and  social 
development without respect for human rights, and vice 
versa.  I  wish  to  express  our  support  for  the  excellent 
work  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights,  Mr.  Zeid  Ra’ad  Al  Hussein,  and  to 
encourage him to continue to exercise his leadership in 
the field of human rights. Almost a quarter of a century 
ago,  when  Slovenia  gained  independence,  respect  for 
human  rights  was  a  pivotal  founding  principle  of  our 
newly  formed  State.  Since  then,  our  commitment  to 
promoting  human  rights,  especially  by  protecting  the 
most  vulnerable  groups,  including  children  and  the 
elderly, has intensified and represents one of the core 
elements of our foreign policy. Slovenia will continue 
to  advocate  a  progressive  approach  to  human  rights 
issues  and  strive  to  enhance  international  norms  and 
standards. We are confident that we can also successfully 
contribute to that goal by serving as a member of the 
Human Rights Council from 2016 to 2018.
This year is particularly significant for women, since 
it marks the twentieth anniversary of the adoption of the 
Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action. Just a few 
days ago we participated in the event commemorating 
it and reaffirmed our commitment to gender equality, 
human rights and the empowerment of women. And in 
October we will mark the fifteenth anniversary of the 
adoption  of  Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000), 
the first resolution to stress the role of women in peace 
and  security.  But  while  we  acknowledge  the  progress 
that  has  been  achieved,  our  quest  for  gender  equality 
must continue.
Respect  for  the  rule  of  law  and  international  law 
is an essential condition for nations’ development and 
peaceful  coexistence.  One  of  the  aims  of  the  United 
Nations,  enshrined  in  its  Charter,  is  that  of  working 
to  establish  conditions  under  which 
justice  and 
respect  for  the  obligations  arising  from  treaties  and 
other  sources  of  international  law  can  be  maintained. 
Slovenia believes firmly in the paramount importance 
of international treaties. It is through them that we can 
enhance  universality,  ensure  reliability  and  provide 
accountability. Every society should make justice, truth 
and  reconciliation  a  major  focus  and  strive  to  attain 
them by every possible means, including international 
courts  and  tribunals.  We  continue  our  strong  support 
to  the  International  Criminal  Court,  which  plays  an 
important  role  in  affirming  the  rule  of  law.  Slovenia 
will continue to advocate for a strong and independent 
Court as well as for the universality of the Rome Statute 
and the Kampala amendments, and we call on States to 
cooperate  fully  and  promptly  with  the  Court.  But  the 
primary  responsibility  for  prosecuting  international 
crimes rests with States. Slovenia is actively engaged in 
efforts to ensure mutual legal assistance and extradition 
agreements between States for crimes against humanity, 
war crimes and genocide, through the initiative in that 
regard.
Time and again, no matter how often we insist that 
mass  atrocities  and  systematic  violations  of  human 
rights  should  not  be  repeated,  we  still  witness  events 
that  shock  the  conscience.  In  the  past  few  years  we 
have  witnessed  war  in  Syria  and  raging  conflicts  in 
Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Gaza, Yemen, South Sudan, 
the  Central  African  Republic  and  elsewhere,  with 
spillover  effects  in  their  immediate  neighbourhoods 
and consequences felt around the world. Such situations 
have been worsened by the escalating violent extremism 
and  crimes  committed  by  Daesh  and  other  terrorist 
groups and organizations. This must be stopped. We call 
on the Security Council, and its permanent members in 
particular, to overcome their divisions and find a way 
to deal more effectively with the deteriorating situation, 
in line with the Council’s primary responsibility for the 
maintenance of international peace and security.
Nor  has  Europe  as  a  continent  been  spared.  The 
conflict  in  Ukraine  goes  on  and  its  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity remain under threat. We therefore 
call for the full and timely implementation of the Minsk 
agreements.
28/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
These  wars  and  conflicts  have  dramatically 
increased the displacement of people on a large scale, 
reaching levels unprecedented in recent history. We are 
faced with immense humanitarian challenges. Refugees 
and migrants are fleeing their homes in massive waves, 
and hundreds are dying in their quest for a better life. 
The  magnitude  of  the  current  humanitarian  crisis 
requires a determined and immediate response on the 
part of the entire international community, based on the 
common principles of solidarity, humanity and shared 
responsibility. We should help these people in need. We 
should increase assistance to countries that are hosting 
large  numbers  of  refugees.  We  should  also  act  more 
decisively in refugees’ countries of origin by pushing 
for sustainable political solutions to ongoing conflicts 
and by countering the spread of radical ideologies.
Slovenia  is  committed  to  conflict  prevention  and 
peaceful  conflict  resolution.  Wherever  possible  and 
applicable,  we  should  opt  for  diplomacy,  mediation 
and conflict prevention. The recent historic agreement 
on the Iranian nuclear issue proves that even the most 
complex issues can be resolved peacefully. Considering 
that  positive  outcome,  we  hope  that  the  Middle  East 
peace  talks  will  also  resume  soon,  with  a  view  to 
bringing stability and security to this tormented region.
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
With  regard  to  disarmament  and  arms  control,  I 
would like to welcome the early entry into force, last 
December, of the Arms Trade Treaty and to call for its 
full  implementation.  That  will  enable  us  to  regulate 
the international arms trade effectively, and thus make 
a  substantial  contribution  to  international  peace  and 
security.  My  country  also  remains  committed  to  the 
goal of a world without nuclear weapons.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  underlining  that 
Slovenia will continue with activities aimed at bringing 
the  global  community  closer  to  achieving  universal 
standards of human rights and a decent life for all. We 
will  remain  a  strong  supporter  of  an  environment  in 
which every human being can feel safe. We will continue 
to advocate for strong partnerships, inclusive dialogue 
and  constructive  cooperation.  We  are  determined  to 
work with all partners to ensure that the Organization 
delivers tangible, meaningful results that can advance 
peace, security and human rights for all. Slovenia will 
do its share in shouldering its responsibility to act.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Slovenia for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Miro Cerar, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Slovenia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Meltek Sato Kilman Livtuvanu, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Vanuatu.
Mr. Meltek Sato Kilman Livtuvanu, Prime Minister 
of  the  Republic  of  Vanuatu,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Meltek  Sato  Kilman 
Livtuvanu, Prime Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Livtuvanu (Vanuatu): Vanuatu is honoured to 
join previous speakers in congratulating the President 
on  his  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session,  and  I  would  like 
to  assure  him  of  my  delegation’s  full  support.  Under 
his  leadership  we  are  confident  that  he  will  guide  us 
successfully  through  the  session.  I  would  also  like 
to  offer  warm  thanks  to  the  previous  President  of 
the  Assembly,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa.  His 
exemplary  leadership  has  produced  many  important 
achievements that will continue to shape and strengthen 
the United Nations and enable it to execute its mandate 
effectively.
We  are  meeting  today  at  a  critical  crossroads  in 
history  that  presents  us  with  a  unique  opportunity  to 
change the lives of millions of people around the world, 
especially the most disadvantaged, for the better. The 
2008  world  financial  crisis  dramatically  changed  the 
global financial landscape. The banking crisis resulted 
in  unprecedented  unemployment  and  low  economic 
growth around the world. The effects of the financial 
crisis are still being felt, and the recent volatility of the 
global financial markets has created further uncertainty.
Apart from that global economic challenge, we are 
witnessing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis caused 
by  conflict  and  violence.  According  to  the  Office  of 
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 
there  are  currently  more  than  60  million  refugees  in 
the world, a number unequalled since the Second World 
15-29568
29/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
War. Climate change continues to be a major challenge 
for  the  world  generally,  and  a  major  threat  to  small 
island developing States (SIDS) in particular. Its impact 
cannot  be  understated.  The  rise  in  sea  levels  and  the 
effects of El Niño and unfavourable weather conditions 
point to a bleak future for humankind.
The uncertain global economic outlook, the adverse 
impact  of  climate  change  and  the  humanitarian  crisis 
mean  that  the  task  ahead  of  us  in  implementing  the 
Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution  70/1)  is  all  the  more  daunting.  That  stark 
reality calls for immediate collective action. If we do 
not resolve this global crisis today, we run the risk of 
creating a world with no prospect of sustaining peace 
and  security.  For  the  world  community,  that  blunt 
reality  calls  for  global  action  to  ensure  that  peace, 
prosperity and security can continue to be maintained 
in  the  future.  That  is  the  most  important  gift  we  can 
give our future generations.
I  welcome  the  theme  of  the  General  Assembly’s 
seventieth  session,  “The  United  Nations  at  70  —  the 
road ahead for peace, security and human rights”. It is 
timely and relevant to our current global development 
challenges.  Peace,  security  and  human  rights  are  the 
mutually  reinforcing  pillars  of  successful  sustainable 
development  and  consistent  with  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  This 
year we are celebrating the 70 years of the existence of 
the United Nations, and on reflection, we can see that 
much has been achieved. We have experienced no major 
wars  so  far;  millions  have  been  lifted  out  of  extreme 
poverty  and  remarkable  progress  has  been  made  on 
the  human  rights  front.  Despite  those  achievements, 
however, significant challenges remain ahead.
The humanitarian crisis that has resulted from the 
conflict and violence of recent years has revealed a dark 
side  of  humankind,  a  world  of  haves  and  have-nots. 
The major Powers must do more to assist the surging 
refugee  population,  and  I  urge  the  most  financially 
able  countries  to  seriously  consider  donating  to  the 
coordinated  Humanitarian  Programme  Cycle  of  the 
United  Nations.  What  we  need  now  is  to  address  the 
underlying  root  causes  of  such  conflicts  —  extreme 
poverty,  hunger,  the  lack  of  good  governance,  a  lack 
of adherence to the rule of law, poor economic growth, 
rising  inequality  and  youth  unemployment.  Sustained 
and  inclusive  development  is  therefore  extremely 
important  to  preserving  peace,  human  rights  and 
stability  around  the  world.  I  commend  the  Secretary-
General’s  approach  to  addressing  this  humanitarian 
crisis from a human rights perspective.
In  the  light  of  these  global  challenges,  the  role 
of  preventive  diplomacy  as  a  key  instrument  in  the 
maintenance of peace and security around the world is 
critical. Women’s role in this area should be enhanced, 
and we should focus most of our efforts on preventive 
diplomacy.  Vanuatu  will  always  play  its  part  in 
maintaining international peace and security, and our 
deployment of peacekeepers to Côte d’Ivoire and Haiti 
reflects our commitment to that endeavour.
As part of the international community’s response, 
we  have  embarked  on  three  important  and  ambitious 
global  agendas,  adopting  the  2030  Agenda  and  the 
Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda,  as  well  as  drafting  an 
agreement on climate change to be concluded in Paris 
at the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) 
later  this  year.  The  2030  Agenda  promises  to  be 
transformative,  particularly  for  those  at  the  margins 
of  society.  While  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
contributed  immensely  to  human  progress  in  areas 
such  as  gender  equality,  extreme  poverty  reduction 
and  improved  access  to  basic  social  services,  there  is 
room for more to be done. The 2030 Agenda covers a 
wide range of areas that are pertinent to my country’s 
sustainable development and a good complement to our 
national sustainable development aspirations.
We  welcome  the  establishment  of  Sustainable 
Development Goal (SDG) 14, on the conservation and 
sustainable  management  of  oceans  and  seas.  For  too 
long we have observed the decline of the health of the 
oceans and seas as evidenced in dying coral, a profusion 
of  marine  pollution,  damaged  coastal  ecosystems, 
declining  fish  stocks  and  ocean  acidification.  We 
recognize the need for a framework within which the 
implementation of SDG 14 can be progressively assessed, 
benchmarked  and  driven  forward  for  the  duration  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  We 
therefore  support  mandating  the  proposed  triennial 
United  Nations  conference  on  the  oceans  and  seas  as 
the driver of progress evaluation for SDG 14.
I am delighted to see that a focus on gender remains 
an integral part of the 2030 Agenda. Achieving gender 
equality in my country, given our tradition and cultural 
makeup,  continues  to  be  a  challenge.  However,  the 
political will to continue to advance women’s interests 
remains  steadfast.  We  have  made  notable  progress 
30/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
on  women’s  access  to  basic  education  and  health 
services  and  their  assumption  of  leadership  positions 
in  municipal  councils,  and  today  women  have  better 
access to basic financial services than ever before. As 
one of my country’s leaders, I want to see more tangible 
progress made in the advancement of women and girls 
and  their  active  participation  in  national  leadership. 
That  can  be  expedited  if  more  financial  resources 
can  be  made  available  for  helping  my  Government  to 
advance gender equality and women’s empowerment.
The  success  of  the  2030  Agenda  will  depend  on 
access to affordable financial resources and appropriate 
technology  and  on  substantially  improving  national 
capacity. Regarding access to financial resources, the 
recently adopted Addis Ababa Action Agenda reflects 
most  of  the  pertinent  issues,  and  it  is  important  for 
us  to  implement  it  swiftly.  I  join  other  global  leaders 
in  calling  on  all  developed  countries  to  meet  their 
official  development  assistance  (ODA)  commitments, 
as agreed on in the Monterrey Consensus and the Doha 
Declaration.  The  ODA  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross 
national income (GNI), as well as the increased target 
of  0.2  per  cent  of  GNI  to  least  developed  countries 
(LDCs)  by  2020,  must  be  met,  for  they  are  crucial  to 
realizing the 2030 Agenda.
Development  financing  initiatives  through  South-
South cooperation are complementary to this and will 
remain  critical.  On  that  note,  1  would  like  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  thank  the  President  of  China,  His 
Excellency Mr. Xi Jinping, for his recent announcement 
at  the  SDG  Summit  (see  A/70/PV.7)  that  China  will 
provide  $2  billion  to  developing  countries.  That  type 
of  gesture  and  goodwill  demonstrates  real  action  and 
genuine partnership.
the  development  of 
Access to technology is critical to the achievement 
of  sustainable  development.  I  welcome  the  United 
Nations  initiative,  launched  in  Istanbul,  aimed  at 
establishing  a  technology  bank  for  least  developed 
countries.  My  Government  would  greatly  appreciate 
its  speedy  realization.  In  the  area  of  technology,  and 
particularly 
information  and 
communication technologies (ICT), Vanuatu has made 
tremendous  strides  in  recent  years.  Our  efforts  were 
recognized  last  weekend  when  Vanuatu,  along  with 
a  small  number  of  other  countries,  received  a  United 
Nations award for ICT evelopment, thus demonstrating 
the transformative role that ICT is playing in improving 
our people’s lives. It will continue to be a key tool for 
us in our implementation and achievement of the SDGs.
Regarding  improving  country  capacity,  I  urge 
the  United  Nations  to  assist  developing  countries, 
particularly  SIDS  and  LDCs,  in  developing  their 
statistical capacities. For small island developing States, 
that remains a challenge and, as we know, it is the most 
important basis for formulating evidence-based policy, 
as well as assessing progress on the 2030 Agenda.
For  small 
island  developing  States  such  as 
Vanuatu, climate change remains a major threat to our 
achievement of sustainable development. I am therefore 
grateful  to  see  that  Goal  13  of  the  2030  Agenda 
highlights the importance of climate change. However, 
we should note that this Goal can be meaningful only if 
we reach a favourable agreement in Paris in December. 
The connection between climate change and sustainable 
development  is  clear.  If  we  do  not  address  climate 
change, SIDS cannot achieve sustainable development. 
In  March,  Vanuatu  experienced  a  category-5  tropical 
cyclone that affected 60 per cent of the population and 
64  per  cent  of  its  economy.  According  to  our  current 
assessment,  it  will  take  many  years  and  more  than 
$500 million to rebuild our economy. I would like to take 
this opportunity to thank the international community 
for its swift response in assisting us immediately after 
the cyclone hit with disaster relief and operations. We 
look forward to its continued support for our recovery 
and reconstruction efforts, which we have just embarked 
on.
Our Pacific island leaders have continued to voice 
their  concerns  about  climate  change  in  regional  and 
international forums. We are calling for a legally binding 
agreement  limiting  the  increase  in  the  average  global 
temperature  to  well  below  1.5°C  above  pre-industrial 
levels  and  for  anchoring  loss  and  damage  provisions 
in  the  agreement.  We  are  also  calling  for  a  financial 
package that will commit countries in the UNFCCC’s 
annex I category to providing $1 billion a year by 2020 
in order to finance our adaptation and mitigation needs. 
These declarations represent our collective voice in the 
lead-up  to  the  Paris  Climate  Change  Conference  and 
our  call  to  ensure  that  the  planet  is  saved  for  us  and 
future generations.
Apart  from  focusing  on  climate  change,  we  have 
also agreed to strengthen regional connectivity, improve 
productivity  and  boost  economic  growth  to  ensure 
peace  and  security  in  our  region,  all  initiatives  that 
are consistent with the 2030 Agenda. The relationship 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Pacific-based 
regional organizations is critical to the implementation 
15-29568
31/33
A/70/PV.20
30/09/2015
of  the  2030  Agenda  and  the  SAMOA  Pathway.  We 
welcome  the  recent  adoption  of  resolution  69/318,  on 
the  relationship  between  the  secretariat  of  the  Pacific 
Islands Forum and the United Nations, and we hope that 
cooperation can now be translated into concrete action.
My  delegation  would  like  to  remind  the  United 
Nations  not  to  lose  sight  of  decolonization  issues,  in 
the  light  of  the  emerging  challenges  that  have  been 
presented  to  us  to  address  collectively.  Vanuatu  calls 
on the United Nations family to remain equally focused 
on finding ways to address this long-overdue issue. The 
United  Nations  membership  must  bring  closure  to  its 
work on decolonization. The right to self-determination 
has been a fight endured by many generations. While 
many  have  lost  their  lives  in  the  process,  the  dream 
continues  for  the  United  Nations  and  all  nations 
advocating  and  promoting  the  democratic  principles 
that still linger in the hearts of many, in the hope that 
one day their cries will be heard and the promise of a 
self-determined  future  delivered.  The  United  Nations 
must  continue  the  work  of  the  Special  Committee  on 
Decolonization  in  order  to  maintain  a  meaningful 
dialogue on the question of New Caledonia. We thank 
the Government of France for its cooperation in moving 
the  decolonization  process  forward.  It  is  therefore 
important  that  all  parties  maintain  a  dialogue  and 
ensure that all the issues are addressed.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  welcome 
President Barack Obama’s recent decision to re-establish 
diplomatic relations with Cuba and reopen diplomatic 
missions between the two nations. We hope the process 
will be completed soon with the lifting of the embargo 
on Cuba.
Like other small Pacific island countries, Vanuatu is 
a small, open and vulnerable economy. Its openness and 
small size mean that it is highly vulnerable to external 
shocks and that opportunities to exploit economies of 
scale  are  limited.  Despite  those  challenges,  we  have 
been  able  to  record  economic  growth  for  the  past  10 
years.  The  recent  impact  of  Tropical  Cyclone  Pam, 
however, has erased the gains made over that decade. It 
will take many years to recover, making our efforts to 
achieve  sustainable  development  somewhat  daunting. 
As a result of this difficulty, my Government recently 
made  a  decision  to  request  the  United  Nations  to 
consider  postponing  our  graduation  from  LDC  status 
for some years. That will give us ample time to recover 
fully  from  the  effects  of  the  cyclone  and  rebuild  our 
economy. I urge the membership of the United Nations 
to support our draft resolution on the matter during the 
Assembly’s seventieth session.
My Government and people will work to mobilize 
domestic  resources  and  ensure  that  our  institutional 
capacity  is  geared  to  meeting  the  new  development 
Agenda.  Like  many  other  developing  countries,  we 
acknowledge  that  we  cannot  achieve  our  sustainable 
development plans alone, and we therefore call on the 
international community to help us achieve those goals.
My Government believes that the ongoing tensions 
between  the  issues  of  the  freedom  of  the  seas  and 
territorial  claims  has  placed  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  other  relevant 
international 
conventions  under  huge  pressure. 
However, I also believe that States must be willing to 
cooperate and seek peaceful solutions to any disputes 
that  may  have  arisen.  Umaenupne  and  Leka  islands, 
commonly  known  as  Matthew  and  Hunter  islands, 
south of Vanuatu, have been a repository of our cultural 
heritage  since  well  before  the  colonial  era.  As  in  the 
other 83 islands, people would use the freedom of the 
seas  to  visit  their  claimed  cultural  sites.  For  several 
decades  now,  my  people  have  been  denied  their  right 
to  enjoy  the  freedom  of  the  seas  and  their  claimed 
territory. I would like to thank and commend the United 
Nations and the Republic of France for their willingness 
to  hold  a  dialogue  and  allow  my  people  their  right  to 
visit their claimed territory to perform cultural rituals. 
The Government of France is to be commended for its 
important role in advocating for the rights of indigenous 
peoples in our region and around the world.
I would like to place it on record that Vanuatu has 
declared the two islands and the water surrounding them 
a cultural and marine protected area. Cultural visits to 
the island will be undertaken to revive and empower our 
indigenous and cultural system. I also wish to put it on 
record that the Government of Vanuatu will strengthen 
its  ties  with  its  French  counterpart  in  collaborative 
efforts to ensure that our ocean is safe from terrorism, 
piracy, climate change and illegal fishing.
In  conclusion,  the  global  challenges  before  us 
are  overwhelming.  The  global  economic  uncertainty, 
the  impact  of  climate  change  and  the  unprecedented 
humanitarian  crisis  at  hand  remind  us  that  we  need 
to  think  differently  and  adopt  innovative  approaches 
to  resolve  those  challenges.  We  need  to  deviate 
from  business  as  usual.  That  is  important  especially 
when  implementing  the  ambitious  2030  Agenda  for 
32/33 
15-29568
30/09/2015
A/70/PV.20
Sustainable  Development,  the  Addis  Ababa  Action 
Agenda and the soon to be adopted Paris climate change 
agreement. What we need are revitalized partnerships, 
international  cooperation  and  collective  wisdom  to 
address  those  challenges.  When  we  stand  together, 
there is no limit to what we can do together.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Vanuatu for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Meltek Sato Kilman Livtuvanu, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Vanuatu, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.
15-29568
33/33
