United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
38th plenary meeting
Monday, 31 October 2016, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.38
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Pecsteen  de 
Buytswerve (Belgium), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 72 (continued)
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (A/71/342)
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/71/346 and 
A/71/349)
Mr.  Barro  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  First 
of  all,  I  would  like  to  thank  most  warmly  Ms.  Silvia 
Fernández de Gurmendi, President of the International 
Criminal Court (ICC), for the leadership she has shown 
at  the  head  of  the  International  Criminal  and  for  her 
introduction of the report on the Court on its activities 
during  the  period  2015-2016  (A/71/342).  I  would  like 
also  to  pay  tribute  to  all  those  who  within  the  Court 
and  elsewhere  have  committed  themselves  on  a  daily 
basis  to  ensuring  that  the  victims  of  mass  crimes  see 
their  right  to  justice  fulfilled.  I  would  also  like  to 
thank the various delegations that have had kind words 
about Mr. Sidiki Kaba, Minister of Justice of Senegal 
and President of the Assembly of States Parties to the 
Rome Statute.
Senegal,  the  first  country  to  have  ratified  the 
Rome Statute, remains convinced that a world of peace 
and  stability  means  justice  for  all  and  reiterates  its 
commitment  to  working  with  all  stakeholders  to  that 
end. Consideration of the report of the ICC shows the 
importance  of  the  Court  in  the  global  fight  against 
impunity and in respect for the rule of law. Indeed, the 
activity of the Court in the reporting period shows that 
the only permanent international court for prosecuting 
mass crimes contributes greatly to bringing justice to 
millions of victims throughout the world.
With its record of holding four trials simultaneously, 
the  Court  has  reached  new  levels,  particularly  with 
the  first  case  the  Court  has  dealt  with  on  command 
responsibility  and  criminal  liability,  which  led  to 
the  first  conviction  for  sexual  violence  and  gave  the 
long-suffering  peoples  involved  the  feeling  that  all 
of  humankind  had  heard  their  appeals.  The  arrest  of 
Ahmad Al-Faqi Al-Madhi, the first individual to plead 
guilty to an accusation made by the ICC for war crimes 
in relation to attacks on Malian religious and historic 
buildings in the city of Timbuktu and his conviction on 
27 September, a few days after the report was issued, 
embodies the work done by the Court on behalf of the 
populations involved.
The  preliminary  investigations  conducted  by  the 
Office of the Prosecutor dealing with 11 cases throughout 
the world and the opening of a new investigation lead 
us  to  believe  that,  slowly  but  surely,  the  universality 
of  international  criminal  justice  is  making  headway. 
Senegal invites all States to give all the assistance and 
cooperation the Court needs to allow it to continue to 
carry out its mandate in the best way possible.
On  8  December  2014,  during  his  election  as 
President of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome 
Statute, the Minister of Justice of Senegal, Mr. Sidiki 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-35451 (E)
*1635451*
A/71/PV.38 
31/10/2016
Kaba,  emphasized  that  strengthening  the  relationship 
between  Africa  and  the  International  Criminal  Court 
should  be  of  the  highest  priority.  This  appeal  is  even 
more  relevant  today,  at  a  time  when  States  parties  in 
Africa  have  announced  their  decision  to  withdraw 
from  the  Rome  Statute.  Senegal,  while  respectful  of 
the  sovereignty  of  all  States,  nevertheless  hopes  that 
a  dynamic  consensus  will  be  found  so  that  Africa 
may continue to play a major role in the fight against 
impunity within the Assembly of States Parties.
To that end, we must, among other things, join our 
efforts  so  that  the  perception  of  double  standards  in 
the  administration  of  justice,  criticized  by  some  and 
creating  misunderstanding,  might  yield  to  a  common 
commitment  for  the  requirements  of  justice  and  for 
reparations  for  the  millions  of  victims  who  have 
suffered damages. In an era of accountability, the needs 
of those victims cannot be disregarded.
Africa  is  waging  a  struggle  to  end  impunity  for 
heinous crimes and has reaffirmed that in the founding 
Charter of the African Union. Senegal remains convinced 
that through dialogue, unity will be preserved. In this 
regard, the Assembly of States Parties must remain the 
platform where the concerns of all States are expressed, 
and we hope that the Court will continue to be open to 
dialogue while respecting judicial independence, as it 
did during its fourteenth session.
Today, the ICC is the only recourse for victims of 
grave crimes committed by the highest-ranking leaders 
when the victims’ right to justice in their countries is not 
upheld. The Rome Statute has also established a system 
of  international  criminal  justice,  bringing  together 
States  with  the  primary  responsibility  for  trying  and 
obtaining convictions in heinous crimes defined in the 
Rome Statute, and as a court of last resort. The support 
of  the  international  community  is  therefore  essential 
for ensuring efficiency in the Court’s work. I hope that 
all States parties to the Statute will remain active and 
that others will join them.
Again,  the  universal  ratification  of  the  Rome 
Statute and the integration of its norms into the national 
legislation of States must become a reality if we want 
all  victims,  wherever  they  reside,  to  have  a  fair  and 
equal chance at seeing justice. Moreover, we must work 
towards  complementarity  by  strengthening  national 
judicial systems so that they are in a position to try the 
most serious crimes that have wounded our collective 
conscience,  thereby  letting  peace  reign.  In  addition, 
due  to  the  spirit  of  openness  and  cooperation  shown 
by  the  parties  in  resolving  mutual  problems  in  the 
interest of peace and justice, the discussion will lead to 
contributing in a positive manner to strengthening the 
ideals and principles that unify us all.
Mr.  Elias-Fatile  (Nigeria):  My  delegation 
is 
grateful to the President of the International Criminal 
Court (ICC), Judge Silvia Fernández de Gurmendi, for 
the report presented to us today for our consideration 
(A/71/342). We congratulate the Court on its relocation 
to  permanent  premises  in  The  Hague,  Netherlands, 
which was marked with an official opening ceremony 
on 19 April.
The  objective  of  the  ICC  is  based  on  the  concept 
that  impunity  must  be  challenged  and  that  everybody 
should  be  held  accountable  for  their  actions.  We 
therefore welcome the Court’s appreciable progress in 
the fight against impunity and crimes against humanity. 
We commend the Court for its significant contribution 
to  the  development  of  substantive  and  procedural 
international  criminal  law.  We  also  recognize  the 
Court’s  important  contribution  to  the  promotion  of 
the  rule  of  law.  Through  its  work,  accountability  for 
genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes has 
been strengthened.
We  have  studied  the  report  before  us  closely  and 
observed  that,  during  the  reporting  period,  the  Court 
had  an  unprecedented  workload,  with  four  cases  at 
trial simultaneously and several cases at other stages of 
proceedings. We noted that the Court is currently seized 
of 23 cases and 10 situations, some of which include its 
first  case  involving  command  responsibility,  the  first 
conviction  for  sexual  violence,  the  Court’s  first  war-
crime charge for the destruction of historic monuments 
and 
the  commencement  of 
reparations proceedings, and convictions and sentences 
that are now being appealed.
religious  buildings, 
It is also notable that the Office of the Prosecutor 
received information from various sources alleging the 
commission  of  crimes  potentially  falling  within  the 
Court’s jurisdiction, including the Court’s registration 
of 410 communications related to article 15 of the Rome 
Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  of  which 
302  were  manifestly  outside  the  Court’s  jurisdiction, 
35 were unrelated to current situations and warranted 
further analysis, 62 were linked to a situation already 
under analysis, and 11 were linked to an investigation 
or  prosecution.  Indeed,  that  large  number  of  referrals 
2/22 
16-35451
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.38
to 
the  Court 
entrusted 
increasing 
acknowledgement of its relevance as an apt instrument 
for fighting impunity.
indicates 
the 
We  welcome  improved  cooperation  between  the 
ICC  and  the  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations, 
especially  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council, 
including  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
missions  and  other  United  Nations  presence  in  the 
field. As the main forum for international cooperation 
and  consultation, 
the  United  Nations  presents  a 
unique  platform  for  promoting  the  mainstreaming 
and  understanding  of  Rome  Statute 
issues  and 
considerations into wider areas of international activity. 
We  also  note  with  satisfaction  the  report’s  coverage 
of  cooperation  with  and  assistance  from  States,  other 
international organizations and civil society, as well as 
the cooperation among relevant partners in the context 
of  supporting  and  strengthening  the  Rome  Statute 
system of international criminal justice.
My  delegation  further  welcomes  the  exchange 
of 
the  Libyan  Prosecutor-
information  between 
General’s office and the Office of the ICC Prosecutor. 
We  commend  the  Libyan  Prosecutor-General  and 
the  Libyan  representative  to  the  ICC  for  their  close 
cooperation  with  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor.  We 
encourage the two sides to strengthen their cooperation 
and work together to end impunity in Libya.
My delegation notes that, according to the report, 
the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  continued  its  analysis  of 
war  crimes  allegedly  committed  by  Boko  Haram  and 
by  the  Nigerian  security  forces  in  the  context  of  the 
continuing  armed  conflict  in  Nigeria.  In  response  to 
the  Prosecutor’s  request  for  information  on  actions 
undertaken by the Government on this matter, the report 
adds that the Attorney General and Minister of Justice 
of Nigeria gave assurances of Nigeria’s commitment to 
supporting and cooperating with the Office.
Against  that  backdrop,  as  a  committed  member 
of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute 
of  the  ICC,  under  the  leadership  of  Mr.  Sidiki  Kaba 
of  Senegal,  and  a  current  member  of  its  Bureau,  my 
delegation  wishes  to  reiterate  Nigeria’s  continuing 
commitment 
to  supporting  and  cooperating  with 
the  Court.  Nigeria  believes  that  impunity  must  be 
addressed  resolutely  whenever  and  wherever  it  may 
occur  in  the  world.  For  this  reason,  we  are  faithfully 
committed  to  the  fundamental  values  of  the  Rome 
Statute and the ideals of the ICC. As we reaffirm our 
continued  membership  in  the  Assembly,  Nigeria  is 
prepared to continue to work in concert with Member 
States  to  address  the  concerns  that  have  been  raised 
against the Court.
It is our belief that a global system based on rule 
of law, where accountability and social justice are the 
foundation for durable peace, should be a priority goal 
for  the  international  community,  world  leaders  and 
citizens alike.
Mr.  Sobral  Duarte  (Brazil):  My  first  words  are 
to  thank  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  for 
its  report  to  the  General  Assembly  (A/71/342)  and  to 
commend the Court for contributing to the fight against 
impunity  and  promoting  respect  for  the  rule  of  law.  I 
also  join  previous  speakers  in  thanking  the  President 
of  the  ICC,  Judge  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  for 
her briefing and her tireless efforts to make the Court a 
more efficient institution. Brazil is also pleased that the 
ICC has moved to its new and purpose-built premises 
in The Hague.
As  a  proud  founder  of  the  ICC,  Brazil  remains 
steadfast in its commitment to the Rome Statute system 
and to the cause of justice that motivated its creation. 
As an instrument for ensuring that those accused before 
it  are  judged  with  fairness  and  full  respect  for  their 
rights, the ICC is a vehicle for justice and peace. I am 
pleased to recall that not only are all South American 
countries  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  but  also 
that  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  represent 
the second-largest regional group among States parties. 
Today  more  than  ever  it  is  important  to  stress  that  a 
misperception of selectivity with respect to the Court’s 
activity will be definitively dispelled only by advancing 
the universality of the Statute — expanding rather than 
shrinking the Court’s room to operate.
Allow me to underscore the importance that Brazil 
attaches to the outcomes of the 2010 Kampala Review 
Conference.  We  are  convinced  that  the  activation 
in  2017  of  the  amendment  regarding  the  crime  of 
aggression  will  represent  a  major  contribution  to 
completing  the  international  criminal  justice  system. 
It  will  give  additional  meaning  to  the  prohibition  of 
the use of force, thus fostering a more stable, just and 
democratic world order.
Brazil  notes  with  appreciation  that  providing 
justice  for  victims  remains  an  essential  component 
in  the  daily  work  of  the  Court.  We  also  welcome  the 
fact  that  reparation  procedures  are  ongoing  in  four 
16-35451
3/22
A/71/PV.38 
31/10/2016
different  cases  and  that  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims 
has  already  assisted  more  than  300,000  persons, 
with  the  provision  of  physical  and  psychological 
rehabilitation  and  material  support.  We  commend  the 
efforts aimed at enhancing the protection of witnesses, 
including through relocation agreements, and stress the 
importance  of  the  positive  dimension  of  cooperation 
through strengthening national capacities.
reiterate  our  call 
for 
As reported by President Fernández de Gurmendi, 
the ICC has reached an unprecedented level of activity. 
Its workload is increasing significantly. In this context, 
I recall my delegation’s concern regarding the financing 
of  Security  Council  referrals,  an  issue  of  structural 
nature  that  goes  to  the  very  core  of  the  relationship 
between the Court and the United Nations, particularly 
the General Assembly.
Once  again,  we 
the 
implementation  of  article  13  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement and of article 115 (b) of the Rome Statute, 
which  provide  guidance  in  the  sense  that  such  costs 
should be met, at least partially, by funds provided by 
the United Nations and not fall solely upon the States 
parties to the Rome Statute. It is equally important to 
highlight that, as laid out in Article 17 of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  General  Assembly  has  the 
exclusive  responsibility  to  consider  and  approve  the 
budget  of  the  Organization.  The  proper  funding  of 
referrals  would  enhance  the  credibility  of  both  the 
Court and the United Nations.
The current situation is neither fair nor sustainable. 
Brazil also notes that some United Nations peacekeeping 
operations have been providing the Court with much-
needed support in the field, always in accordance with 
their mandate and basic principles.
The quest for peace and justice is always challenging. 
This challenge is inherent to the search for a more just 
and cooperative world order. We are cognizant of the 
different  perceptions  concerning  the  activity  of  the 
Court. Let us not fall into the trap of operating with false 
dichotomies that seem to place peace in opposition to 
justice and sovereignty in opposition to accountability. 
Rather, we should focus on the shared values that bring 
the General Assembly together and have made the first 
permanent,  treaty-based  international  criminal  court 
a reality.
Ms. Guillén Grillo (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish) 
My  delegation  would  like  to  thank  Judge  Silvia 
Fernández de Gurmendi, President of the International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC),  for  presenting  the  report  on 
the  activities  of  the  Court  in  the  period  2015-2016 
(A/71/342),  pursuant  to  article  6  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC 
and paragraph 28 of resolution 70/264.
Before continuing, Costa Rica would like to extend 
its  sincere  condolences  to  the  Permanent  Mission  of 
Chile  following  the  sudden  death  of  Ms.  Elena  del 
Carmen Bornand Pérez, a great defender of the Court 
and a highly esteemed colleague.
The  International  Criminal  Court 
is  without 
a  doubt  the  single  most  important  achievement  of 
international justice. It was born from the desire of the 
international community to end impunity for the most 
serious crimes against humanity and to provide justice 
for  victims.  Its  heart  and  its  principal  strength  lie  in 
its erga omnes jurisdiction. This is the same principle 
as  the  one  enshrined  in  article  IV  of  the  Convention 
on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the  Crime  of 
Genocide  and  in  the  Charters  of  the  International 
Military Tribunals of Nuremberg and Tokyo, as well as 
in the Charters of the International Criminal Tribunal 
for Rwanda and the International Criminal Tribunal for 
the Former Yugoslavia.
Because the aspiration for justice is shared globally, 
the  world  needs  for  there  not  to  be  a  single  State  in 
which impunity finds safe harbour. Accordingly, Costa 
Rica welcomes the fact that our neighbouring Central 
American country, El Salvador, became the 124th State 
party to the Rome Statute, on 3 March. We would like 
to further congratulate El Salvador for having become 
the first State to accede to the Rome Statute after the 
relevant  amendments  were  made  to  article  8  of  the 
Rome  Statute  and  to  the  provisions  on  the  crime  of 
aggression.
My  delegation  further  welcomes  the  ratification 
of the aforementioned amendments of article 8 and the 
crime of aggression during the period by Switzerland, 
Lithuania,  Finland,  Macedonia,  Iceland,  Palestine, 
the  Netherlands  and  Chile.  With  32  ratifications,  the 
amendments have surpassed the required minimum of 
30, which means that those amendments have entered 
into force.
Turning  to  another  subject,  my  delegation  is 
alarmed  by  the  rejection  of  the  Rome  Statute  by  any 
State party thereto, based on the deeply held belief that 
such decisions only harm victims. Nothing should lead 
us to turn our backs on our common goal of providing 
4/22 
16-35451
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.38
justice and reparations to those who have suffered the 
consequences of atrocity crimes.
On  the  specific  issue  of  victims,  my  delegation 
acknowledges  and  welcomes  the  fact  that  the  Trust 
Fund  and  its  implementing  partners  at  the  local  level 
continue  to  provide  assistance  to  more  than  300,000 
victims in the north of Uganda and in the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  in  the  form  of  physical  and 
psychological  rehabilitation  services  and  material 
support  to  survivors  of  crimes  under  the  jurisdiction 
of the Court.
Returning to our common goal of putting an end to 
impunity for atrocity crimes, it is important not to lose 
sight of the fact that the ICC is a court of last resort and 
that it was not established to substitute for or replace 
domestic  courts.  Responsibility  for  investigating  and 
prosecuting crimes committed under their jurisdiction 
lies  first  and  foremost  with  the  legal  systems  of  each 
individual State. For that reason, complementarity is an 
essential part of the apparatus of international criminal 
justice.
Nonetheless, it is also essential to fully understand 
that when the competence of the Court is triggered in line 
with the provisions of the Rome Statute, States parties 
must  comply  with  their  binding  responsibilities  that 
arise from the Statute. Things have taken a particularly 
serious turn when non-compliance results in the refusal 
to provide the support required for the investigations of 
the Prosecutor, thus impeding or making difficult access 
to  evidence,  which  could  derail  the  trial  process  and 
thereby create an opportunity for impunity. Similarly, 
the  fight  against  impunity  is  obstructed  every  time  a 
State party fails in its obligation to execute valid arrest 
warrants.  The  failure  of  cooperation  also  impedes 
providing victims the justice they demand and deserve.
Not  cooperating  with  the  Court  under  the  pretext 
that  it  is  not  impartial  because  a  high  percentage  of 
its cases are found in the same region is unacceptable. 
Those who make that argument are trying to ignore the 
fact that the situations in Mali, Côte d’Ivoire, Uganda 
and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  the 
two  situations  in  the  Central  African  Republic,  were 
referred  to  the  Court  by  the  Governments  of  those 
very  countries.  Moreover,  the  situations  in  Libya  and 
the  Sudan  were  referred  by  the  Security  Council. 
Only  2  of  the  10  situations  —  those  in  Kenya  and 
Georgia  —  had  been  initiated  proprio  motu  by  the 
Office of the Prosecutor. Therefore, only one of these 
situations is found on the African continent. It would be 
inconsistent with our common goal of fighting against 
impunity and guaranteeing access to justice to call for 
the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  to  reject  referrals  from 
State parties with the aim of maintaining a geographic 
balance in its cases.
In the period included in the report, the Court had 
to deal with an unprecedented workload, including four 
cases  that  were  in  the  trial  stage  simultaneously  and 
several more in other stages of proceedings. I wish to 
mention two judgments of great relevance. The first is 
the  verdict  against  Jean-Pierre  Bemba  Gombo,  whom 
the  Court  found  guilty  of  crimes  against  humanity 
and  war  crimes,  the  first  case  involving  command 
responsibility  and  the  Court’s  first  conviction  for 
sexual  violence.  The  second  was  the  iconic  judgment 
in September in which the Court found Ahmad Al-Faqi 
Al-Mahdi guilty of a war crime for the destruction of 
historic monuments and sacred sites in Timbuktu.
The  Court  currently  has  before  it  23  cases  and 
10  situations,  as  other  delegations  have  mentioned. 
In  order  to  continue  fulfilling  its  mandate,  the  Court 
requires  the  support  and  cooperation  of  the  entire 
international  community,  particularly 
the  United 
Nations, which shares the ideals of accountability, the 
protection  of  human  rights  and  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  It  is  for  that  reason 
that my delegation would like to reiterate the need for 
the  United  Nations  to  participate  in  the  financing  of 
the referrals to the International Criminal Court by the 
Security Council.
Given that the Charter of the United Nations confers 
the responsibility for the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security  on  the  Council,  the  Court,  by 
accepting those referrals, is helping the Council comply 
with its mandate. For these cases of cooperation, article 
13  of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the  Court 
and  the  United  Nations,  on  financial  matters,  which 
provides  for  the  economic  contribution  of  the  United 
Nations, should then be applied.
its  commitment 
to  continue  supporting 
In  conclusion,  Costa  Rica  wishes  to  emphasize 
its  full  support  for  the  International  Criminal  Court 
and 
the 
universalization,  independence  and  integrity  of  the 
Court  so  that,  together  with  other  States  parties  and 
with  the  support  of  the  community  of  nations,  we 
can  together  ensure  respect  for  and  fulfilment  of 
international justice.
16-35451
5/22
A/71/PV.38 
31/10/2016
Mr.  Logar  (Slovenia):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
thanking  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court (ICC), Judge Silvia Fernández de Gurmendi, for 
introducing the annual report of the Court (A/71/342) 
and  by  expressing  Slovenia’s  strong  support  for  the 
Court and appreciation for its ongoing contribution to 
combating  impunity  for  the  most  serious  crimes  and 
strengthening  the  rule  of  law.  The  report  of  the  ICC 
before  us  affirms  an  unprecedented  increase  of  the 
Court’s workload, which yet again attests to versatility 
of its activities in support of bringing justice to victims 
of the most serious crimes.
The  Court  has  continued  its  work  on  many 
situations  and  has  delivered  important  rulings  in  the 
field  of  international  criminal  law.  These  include  the 
first  case  involving  command  responsibility,  which 
resulted in a conviction for sexual violence, and the first 
conviction  for  the  destruction  of  historic  monuments 
and  sacred  sites,  which  was  also  the  first  conviction 
delivered  on  the  basis  of  an  admission  of  guilt.  The 
report further highlights the Court’s engagement in 10 
preliminary  examinations  in  nearly  all  regions  of  the 
world, including Latin America, the Middle East, Asia, 
Europe and Africa.
Furthermore, Slovenia would like to acknowledge 
the  progress  made  with  respect  to  the  reparations 
proceedings.  Reparations  to  victims  is  an  important 
feature  introduced  in  the  Rome  Statute  system  that 
helps place victims at the very centre of this system.
The Court has also continued fulfilling important 
tasks to further improve its efficiency and effectiveness. 
The  effective  and  efficient  functioning  of  the  Court 
with due regard for procedures of fairness is important 
to  strengthening  its  credibility.  Slovenia  therefore 
commends the dedication of the Court, in particular the 
personal  dedication  of  its  President,  in  improving  the 
Court’s efficiency by, inter alia, expanding the Court’s 
performance through projects designed to evaluate the 
Court’s size and output.
Although  the  ICC  report  highlights  many  of  the 
Court’s  activities  and  achievements  since  the  last 
reporting period, it also reminds us of several challenges 
that  it  faces.  Slovenia  regrets  the  recent  decisions  of 
some  States  to  withdraw  from  the  Rome  Statute.  We 
note  with  equal  concern  that  certain  other  countries 
also  have  the  intention  to  withdraw  from  the  Statute. 
While a decision to withdraw from a treaty is a State’s 
prerogative, it is with concern that we have learned of 
decisions  to  that  effect.  The  creation  of  the  ICC  was 
one of the most historic achievements in international 
law  and  human  consciousness.  The  International 
Criminal  Court  is  the  first  permanent  international 
criminal court. It offers hope and a chance of last resort 
to  victims  of  atrocities  who  would  otherwise  remain 
unheard. Slovenia hopes that any decision to withdraw 
as a State party will be reconsidered.
My  delegation  acknowledges  the  importance  of 
engaging  constructively  and  openly  on  concerns  that 
States might have with respect to the functioning of the 
ICC.  We  remain  ready  to  continue  to  engage.  We  are 
also  convinced  that  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  to 
the Rome Statute remains the most appropriate forum 
to engage in a dialogue among the ICC States parties.
I  would  now  like  to  focus  on  three  key  areas 
the  principle  of 
importance:  universality, 
of 
cooperation. 
complementarity 
and 
Addressing  challenges 
through 
concerted  efforts  and  constructive  dialogue  on  the 
part of the Court, but particularly on the part of States, 
international and regional organizations, as well as of 
civil  society,  is  essential  to  ensuring  an  effective  and 
independent Court and to achieving accountability.
international 
in 
these  areas 
Turning  to  the  issue  of  universality,  Slovenia 
welcomes El Salvador’s accession to the Rome Statue 
and  invites  other  States  to  join.  We  further  welcome 
the  ratifications  of  the  Rome  Statute  amendments, 
including the Kampala Amendments and the article 124 
amendment. We welcome the fact that the threshold of 
30 ratifications of the crime of aggression amendments 
has  been  met  this  year.  The  universality  of  the  Rome 
Statute  remains  an  important  goal  for  Slovenia.  It  is 
only through universal outreach that the International 
Criminal  Court  can  truly  develop  to  its  full  potential 
and avoid the criticism of being selective or unable to 
reach out to victims in need of its protection. Slovenia 
therefore  welcomes  the  call  in  the  ICC  report  for 
encouraging  further  efforts  by  the  United  Nations 
community  to  promote  the  universality  of  the  Rome 
Statute.
One  of  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  Rome 
Statute is the principle of complementarity. The Court 
is a court of last resort and will act only when States 
are  genuinely  unwilling  or  unable  to  investigate  and 
prosecute atrocity crimes. The effective implementation 
of the principle of complementarity therefore requires 
not  only  willingness,  but  also  appropriate  national 
6/22 
16-35451
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.38
legislation,  the  necessary  capacities  and  inter-State 
cooperation. Slovenia, together with Argentina, Belgium 
and the Netherlands, remains engaged in such efforts, in 
particular through the initiative to adopt a multilateral 
treaty  for  mutual  legal  assistance  and  extradition  for 
the  domestic  prosecution  of  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity  and  war  crimes.  I  would  like  to  use  this 
opportunity to invite other States to join over 50 States 
in supporting the mutual-legal-assistance initiative.
The Court’s effectiveness depends to a large degree 
on  the  effectiveness  of  international  cooperation, 
particularly  on  the  part  of  States,  as  well  as  that  of 
international  and  regional  organizations.  Slovenia  is 
concerned that 13 arrest warrants issued by the Court 
remain  outstanding  —  some  of  which  have  already 
been  so  for  several  years  —  representing  a  notable 
challenge  for  the  Court.  Full  and  prompt  cooperation 
with the Court is an international obligation under the 
Rome  Statute.  Instances  of  non-cooperation  attest  to 
the need for additional efforts to improve cooperation 
in that field.
Undeniably,  the  United  Nations  is  a  natural  and 
important  partner  of  the  ICC.  Slovenia  welcomes  the 
rich  cooperation  between  the  Court  and  the  United 
Nations,  both  with  Headquarters,  as  well  as  with  the 
peacekeeping  missions  and  other  United  Nations 
presences in the field. In that respect, Slovenia welcomes 
the  conclusion  of  a  memorandum  of  understanding 
with  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic. 
We  further  recognize  that  mission  mandates  should 
contain  the  authorization  for  the  mission  to  support 
national authorities in their efforts to combat impunity.
Given the powers vested in the Security Council, the 
Council’s support for the ICC is particularly significant 
for  the  effectiveness  of  the  Court.  Slovenia  therefore 
supports efforts to further improve cooperation between 
the  Security  Council  and  the  ICC  and  recognizes 
the  importance  of  the  full  implementation  of  the 
Relationship Agreement between the United Nations and 
the ICC. Furthermore, Slovenia supports the initiatives 
urging members of the Security Council to refrain from 
exercising their power to veto in situations of atrocity 
crimes. A veto in such circumstances not only fails the 
victims  of  atrocities  but  affects  the  credibility  of  the 
Court, which is then prevented from addressing some 
of the most urgent and devastating situations.
In conclusion, Slovenia remains firmly committed 
to  advocating  and  promoting  the  rule  of  law  and 
international criminal justice. The ICC is an important 
tool  for  the  prevention  and  prosecution  of  atrocity 
crimes  and  deserves  our  strong  political  commitment 
and  cooperation,  as  well  as  our  constructive  and 
open  engagement 
the  outstanding 
challenges  facing  the  Court,  while  preserving  its 
fundamental principles.
in  addressing 
Mr.  Bin  Momen  (Bangladesh):  Bangladesh  takes 
note  with  appreciation  of  the  comprehensive  report 
(A/71/342) of the International Criminal Court (ICC), 
presented  by  Her  Excellency  Judge  Silvia  Alejandra 
Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  President  of  the  Court, 
pursuant  to  article  6  of  the  Relationship  Agreement 
between the United Nations and the ICC.
We  take  note  of  the  enhanced  engagements  of 
the  ICC,  including  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor,  and 
the  corresponding  increase  in  the  level  and  scope  of 
cooperation between the United Nations and the ICC. 
We commend the recommendations put forward in the 
report with regard to further strengthening the interface 
between the Organization and the Court for the attention 
and  consideration  of  both  State  parties  and  non-State 
parties to the Rome Statute. It is critical that the ICC’s 
mandate  and  competence  be  recognized  in  relevant 
discussions and resolutions throughout the Organization 
with  a  view  to  ensuring  the  acknowledgement  of  the 
Court’s  potential  contributions  to  international  peace 
and criminal justice.
As  a  State  party,  Bangladesh  appreciates  the 
work  done  by  the  Bureau  of  the  Assembly  of  State 
Parties to the Rome Statute and that of its designated 
co-focal  points  in  implementing  its  plan  of  action  for 
promoting  the  universality  and  full  implementation 
of  the  Rome  Statute.  As  we  welcome  El  Salvador’s 
accession  to  the  Rome  Statute,  we  share  concerns 
over  the  decision  or  plan  on  the  part  of  certain  State 
parties to withdraw from the Statute. We hope that the 
international  community’s  collective  commitment  to 
fighting impunity and ensuring accountability for mass 
atrocity crimes will remain unconstrained against the 
backdrop  of  such  developments.  We  urge  both  sides 
of  the  debate  to  exercise  maximum  restraint  in  their 
actions and rhetoric.
In  an  environment  of  growing  conflicts  and 
humanitarian  crises  around  the  world,  we  underscore 
the  need  for  informed  and  continued  dialogue  among 
16-35451
7/22
A/71/PV.38 
31/10/2016
all  States  parties  and  non-States  parties  in  order  to 
uphold  the  sanctity,  integrity  and  credibility  of  the 
Court above and beyond mere political considerations. 
We encourage the sustained attention of the Assembly 
of State Parties to the issue of complementarity, which 
we believe to be a fundamental principle underlying the 
ICC’s functioning as a court of last resort. Bangladesh 
continues  to  advocate  for  the  ICC’s  contributions  to 
strengthening  national  jurisdictions  in  the  shared 
pursuit of fighting impunity. It is critical that the varied 
contexts in national criminal jurisdictions be borne in 
mind,  and  that  the  international  norms  and  standards 
enshrined in the Rome Statute and exemplified by the 
ICC’s  judicial  and  prosecutorial  activities  be  shared 
with  interested  national  jurisdictions  with  a  view  to 
further strengthening complementarity.
It  is  somewhat  unfortunate  that,  while  the  least 
developed countries constitute 21 per cent of the State 
parties  to  the  ICC  and  account  for  most  of  the  major 
conflict  and  post-conflict  settings  around  the  world, 
their  share  in  the  ICC’s  internship  and  professional 
visit programmes has been quite minimal to date. That 
trend  does  not  augur  well  for  the  critical  importance 
of  promoting  transnational  justice  in  post-conflict 
settings, as well as for the capacity-building of national 
jurisdictions  to  address  impunity  in  the  long-term  in 
resource-constrained  settings.  Our  delegation  looks 
forward  to  addressing  that  issue  through  further 
consultations,  including  in  the  context  of  appropriate 
budgetary arrangements.
Bangladesh  takes  note  of  the  progress  made  in 
the investigations and judicial proceedings in relation 
to  the  ICC’s  situation  countries  and  the  preliminary 
examinations undertaken by the Office of the Prosecutor 
during the reporting period. We recognize the need for 
ensuring adequate resources for the Office to carry out 
its work in cases referred to it by the Security Council. 
As a lead contributor to United Nations peacekeeping 
operations,  Bangladesh  will  continue  to  extend  the 
necessary  cooperation  to  the  Court  in  mission  areas 
where  our  peacekeepers  and  military  observers 
are deployed.
Bangladesh attaches great importance to addressing 
sexual  and  gender-based  violence  during  armed 
conflicts  and  ensuring  accountability  and  justice  for 
such crimes, including as tactics of war. We take note 
of the first conviction for sexual violence by the Court, 
in what has also been its first case involving command 
responsibility.  Bangladesh  reaffirms  its  readiness  to 
share  its  national  experience  in  ensuring  justice  for 
victims  of  sexual  and  gender-based  violence  and  the 
judicial and administrative efforts taken to promote due 
recognition and reparation for such victims.
One of the most compelling narratives emanating 
from  the  Court  is  the  significant  number  of  victims 
whom it has been supporting through its determination 
to  enforce  reparations,  as  well  as  its  Trust  Fund  for 
Victims. We underline the need for the sustained flow 
of resources to the Trust Fund and others.
Bangladesh  takes  note  of  the  commencement  of 
the  trial  in  the  Court’s  first  war-crime  charge  for  the 
destruction  of  the  religious  and  cultural  heritage  in 
Timbuktu,  Mali.  We  will  continue  to  follow  the  trial 
proceedings with interest.
To  conclude,  we  reiterate  the  need  to  avoid  any 
unwarranted measures that might render the legal and 
judicial proceedings of the Court susceptible to political 
pressure or other exogenous considerations.
Mr.  Manongi  (Tanzania):  The  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania  welcomes  the  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  (A/71/342)  and  thanks  the 
President  of  the  Court,  Judge  Silvia  Fernández  de 
Gurmendi,  for  her  introductory  remarks.  We  also 
welcome the Court’s move to its permanent premises in 
The Hague, which marks yet another important step in 
its establishment.
The Court’s report presents a picture of an institution 
that is growing but also facing various challenges and 
opportunities.  We  see  that  fact  as  a  trend  that  will 
continue  to  define  the  work  of  the  Court  and  will 
demand greater engagement from all of its stakeholders. 
The Court came into being with the strongest support 
from Africa, following the considerable frustration and 
outrage over the genocide against the Tutsi in Rwanda. 
It  came  into  being  as  an  organ  with  jurisdiction  over 
persons  responsible  for  the  most  serious  crimes: 
genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes as well 
as  the  crime  of  aggression.  Humanitarian  tragedies 
had  brought  so  much  misery  and  affliction  to  Africa 
that the establishment of the Court became a source of 
inspiration in the fight against impunity and injustice. 
That  promise  and  hope  are  still  relevant  today,  if  not 
more urgent.
And  yet,  as  a  State  party  to  the  Rome  Statute  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  and  member  of 
the  African  Union,  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania 
8/22 
16-35451
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.38
notes that the Court has had a particularly tumultuous 
relationship  with  Africa  —  one  that  has  engendered 
fear  of  an  African  exodus  from  the  Court.  That  need 
not be the case for a number of reasons. First of all, the 
primary foundation of the African Union Agenda 2063 
is to promote a universal culture of good governance, 
democratic values, gender equality, respect for human 
rights, justice and the rule of law.
Secondly,  it  is  significant  that  in  order  to  sustain 
the  momentum  of  strengthening  gender  equality 
and  women’s  empowerment,  African  Heads  of  State 
and  Government  declared  2016  as  the  year  of  human 
rights, with special emphasis on women’s rights — in 
the  recognition  that  peace  and  justice  are  indivisible. 
For those reasons, we must at the very least encourage 
dialogue. It is therefore of concern that African countries 
have come to be critical of the Court, to the point that 
a policy of non-compliance and non-cooperation with 
the Court is a real possibility. For the Court to remain 
a  credible  institution  in  the  delivery  of  international 
justice, it is important that there be confidence-building 
measures  regarding  its  operations  as  well  as  its 
interactions with all of its members.
All too often, avoidable misunderstandings, when 
left unattended or dismissed as inconsequential, grow 
into regrettable outcomes. Lectures or claims of moral 
high ground from outside Africa are, at best, unhelpful. 
The  recognition  and  overcoming  of  avoidable  pitfalls 
associated  with  new  and  evolving  institutions,  such 
as  the  Court,  are  essential  if  that  institution  is  to 
continue  to  grow  and  become  more  robust.  We  must 
therefore ensure that what is done today does not make 
matters worse.
We must also make deliberate efforts to talk to one 
another, remembering that what was needed to establish 
the Court is not necessarily the same as what is needed 
to  help  it  grow  and  discharge  its  mandate.  We  must 
invest  in  building  trust  and  confidence  between  the 
Court and its members. As the Court’s work becomes 
more complex and increasingly affects United Nations 
Member States, it must listen while remaining true to 
its mission.
While  the  report  claims  that  the  capacity  of  the 
Security  Council  to  refer  a  situation  to  the  Court  is 
crucial to promoting accountability, it remains a matter 
of  great  concern  to  us  that  some  permanent  members 
can use their position in the Security Council to refer 
a matter to the Court, although they themselves are not 
parties  to  the  Court’s  Statute.  The  political  nature  of 
the Security Council can also undercut the legitimacy 
of the process.
We recognize that, in most instances, the Court’s 
jurisdiction  is  triggered  when  a  State  is  unable  or 
unwilling  to  deal  with  human  rights  violations  on  its 
territory.  It  would  be  helpful  if  the  primary  task  of 
the Court were also to encourage and enable Member 
States  to  develop  their  own  programmes  of  justice 
and  accountability.  That  effort  must  be  promoted  and 
supported through additional investment.
No matter how current issues between Africa and 
the Court are eventually resolved, there is no denying 
that  we  must  all  improve  our  domestic  legal  and 
judicial systems so that they can deliver justice fully, 
fairly, effectively and in a timely manner. Effective and 
legitimate States are also in the interest of all countries 
and people. States must be effective, not only because 
of  the  need  to  prevent  ICC  intervention  in  domestic 
affairs, but also because it is the duty of each State to 
protect its citizenry. For Africa, the tragedies in Central 
Africa,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Rwanda  and  Sierra  Leone  only 
serve  to  illustrate  the  risks  and  dangers  that  we  must 
guard against.
The report also mentions the holding, in Tanzania, 
of  the  second  Sub-Regional  Seminar  of  Counsel  and 
the Legal Profession, in which the African Union and 
others will participate. We welcome such opportunities, 
as  they  provide  opportunities  for  building  skills  and 
exchanging information of value to parties and to the 
work of the Court. Indeed, in 2012, the African Union 
Heads of State and Government established the African 
Institute of International Law in Arusha, Tanzania, to 
contribute to the strengthening of the rule of law within 
the  African  continent.  The  Institute  can  serve  as  a 
bridge and useful forum for addressing the lack of trust 
and confidence felt by the African constituency of the 
Court. The report also appeals for support for the Trust 
Fund for Victims. Too often victims are easily forgotten, 
and it is proper that their needs be attended to.
We commend the establishment of the International 
Criminal  Court  Bar  Association.  We  hope  that  it 
becomes  not  only  a  forum  for  strengthening  skills, 
capacities and court procedures, but also an avenue for 
consolidating legal norms and democratic institutions.
We  note  the  Court’s  continuing  cooperation  with 
civil  society,  and  we  particularly  encourage  efforts 
16-35451
9/22
A/71/PV.38 
31/10/2016
to  strengthen  its  relationship  with  civil  society  in 
developing countries.
Mr.  Sandoval  Mendiolea  (Mexico)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Mexico  thanks  Judge  Silvia  Fernández  de 
Gurmendi,  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  for  her  presentation  of  the  report  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court 
the 
General Assembly. The work carried out by the Court 
contributes to the international rule of law and serves 
to  strengthen 
implementation  of  Sustainable 
Development Goal 16 of Agenda 2030 for Sustainable 
Development, which seeks to ensure peace and justice 
through strong institutions. That makes the presence of 
Judge Fernández de Gurmendi in the General Assembly 
more relevant still.
(A/71/342) 
the 
to 
The  report  submitted  by  the  Court  refers  to 
the  progress  made  during  the  reporting  period.  We 
recognize as a relevant development the conclusion of 
proceedings against Ahmad Al Mahdi for committing 
war  crimes  by  attacking  historical  and  religious 
monuments in Mali. That is the first case involving the 
destruction  of  cultural  property  where  the  defendant 
has  pleaded  guilty,  which  positively  contributes  to 
the  development  and  consolidation  of  international 
criminal  jurisprudence.  With  that  conviction  and 
sentencing, we have a total of four cases that are at the 
stage of reparations before the Court.
The  current  global  context  poses  growing 
challenges to the international community and adds to 
the challenges facing the Court in fulfilling its mandate. 
The cooperation of States is the main tool at the disposal 
of the ICC for the arrest of defendants, for the gathering 
of evidence and for the substantiation of proceedings in 
general. However, the lack of cooperation on the part of 
some States and the failure to carry out the execution 
of  arrest  warrants,  for  example,  only  encourage  the 
evasion  of  justice  and  undermine  the  very  objectives 
of the system. On the other hand, since the commission 
of  the  crimes  falling  under  the  Rome  Statute  could 
endanger international peace and security, the actions 
of the Security Council are crucial in carrying out the 
work  of  the  Court.  Only  in  the  period  under  review, 
the  Court  referred  three  decisions  on  the  lack  of 
cooperation on the situations in Darfur and Libya to the 
Security Council, for a current total of 15 such cases. In 
that context, we note that there are three dimensions of 
cooperation that should be taken into account.
First,  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
have  an  obligation  to  comply  with  Council  decisions, 
which implies cooperating in situations that have been 
submitted by them to the ICC.
Secondly, 
the  Security  Council  must  follow 
up  effectively  on  situations  referred  to  the  Court, 
particularly  on 
there  has  been 
notification about the lack of cooperation by a State. We 
agree with the Court that the power of Council referral 
is crucial to promoting accountability, which should be 
accompanied by a true administration of justice.
in  which 
those 
Thirdly,  the  Security  Council  cannot  tolerate 
situations  of  impunity.  On  the  contrary,  it  has  the 
responsibility to refer situations to the Court, following 
objective  and  non-politicized  criteria.  We  regret  the 
lack of action on the humanitarian crisis in Syria, which 
has resulted from the irresponsible use of the so-called 
right  of  veto,  which  prevented  the  adoption  of  draft 
resolution  S/2016/847,  introduced  on  8  October  (see 
S/PV.7785) by 46 States, including Mexico. The draft 
resolution appealed to the parties to the conflict to put 
an end to violations and abuses, which may constitute 
war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  within  the 
jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court.
My  country,  along  with  France,  has  promoted 
a  joint  initiative  directed  towards  the  permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council  under  which  they 
would commit to refraining from resorting to the veto 
when  the  Council  is  considering  situations  in  which 
heinous  crimes  are  being  committed.  That  proposal, 
which has been endorsed by almost half of the United 
Nations membership, simply cannot go unnoticed.
The report of the Court refers to various activities 
aimed  at  strengthening  the  capacities  of  States  in  the 
fields of justice and accountability, activities that other 
actors in the international community are undertaking, 
including  within  the  framework  of  this  Organization 
and its organs and agencies. As we stated earlier, those 
forums  are  most  appropriate  for  that,  because  that 
allows those actions to be reinforced. It is not the role 
of the International Criminal Court to do that, as it is 
an  international  judicial  tribunal  and  should  focus  its 
efforts on fulfilling its mandate under the Rome Statute.
Finally,  my  delegation  must  refer  to  the  recent 
denunciation  of  the  Rome  Statute  by  some  States 
parties. The universality of the Statute, enhanced by the 
recent  ratification  by  El  Salvador,  has  to  be  analysed 
in the light of those developments. Mexico considers it 
10/22 
16-35451
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.38
appropriate, therefore, to redirect the discussion on the 
universality of the Rome Statute to a wider reflection, 
involving  the  organs  of  the  Court.  The  fundamental 
aim  of  that  process  must  remain  the  strengthening  of 
international  criminal  justice  in  order  to  preserve  the 
spirit  in  which  the  Court  was  created,  which  we  all 
agree  is  to  end  impunity  for  the  most  serious  crimes 
of concern to the community international as a whole.
Mr.  Li  Yongsheng  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  I 
am pleased to make a statement at this meeting of the 
General Assembly, under agenda item 72, on the report 
(A/71/342) of the International Criminal Court (ICC). 
The Chinese delegation thanks Judge Silvia Fernández 
de  Gurmendi,  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court, for her report.
China has always attached importance to the role 
played  by  international  criminal  justice  bodies  in 
promoting the international rule of law and in punishing 
serious international crimes. China has always actively 
participated  in  a  constructive  manner  in  the  building 
of  an  international  criminal  justice  system,  closely 
following the work of the ICC and participating as an 
observer  State  in  all  Assemblies  of  the  States  Parties 
and expressing China’s position and views.
The  Chinese  delegation  has  noted  that  recently  a 
number  of  African  countries  have  announced,  one 
after another, that they would withdraw from the Rome 
Statute.  We  respect  the  decisions  of  those  countries, 
and  we  also  understand  their  long-standing  concerns 
about  the  ICC.  It  is  thought-provoking  that  the  Court 
had  received  widespread  welcome  and  support  from 
African countries at the time of its establishment, but 
is now faced with increasing criticism, opposition and 
even withdrawal by more and more African countries.
States bear the primary responsibility for punishing 
international  crimes,  eliminating 
impunity  and 
delivering justice. The Court serves as a complement to 
national jurisdiction, and the Court should fully respect 
national judicial sovereignty rather than replace it, still 
less  become  a  tool  for  certain  countries  or  group  of 
countries  to  pursue  their  own  political  interests.  The 
question of how to exercise the power of the Court in 
a  prudent  manner  under  the  Rome  Statute  —  thereby 
gaining  trust  and  respect  from  States  parties  through 
the Court’s objective and impartial conduct with a view 
to realizing the original intent of the Court — deserves 
our serious consideration.
The  Chinese  delegation  has  also  noted  that  the 
amendment  on  the  crime  of  aggression  had  been 
ratified or accepted by 32 States, and that it can enter 
into force with the consent of the two-thirds majority 
of  States  Parties.  The  Chinese  delegation  believes 
that  the  question  of  the  crime  of  aggression  bears  on 
international peace and security. The Security Council 
has the exclusive power to determine what constitutes a 
crime of aggression. The Court’s determinations on the 
issue of the crime of aggression must be applied in an 
orderly manner within the framework of international 
law established by the Charter of the United Nations, 
and  can  only  have  jurisdiction  over  States  that  have 
accepted the amendment.
The  Chinese  delegation  would  like  to  reiterate 
here  its  support  for  the  efforts  of  the  international 
community  to  punish  grave  international  crimes  and 
promote the enforcement of legal justice. At the same 
time,  we  hope  that  the  ICC  will  strictly  abide  by  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  ensure  that  its 
efforts to uphold legal justice will truly be conducive to 
promoting peace, stability and national reconciliation, 
thereby  making  a  contribution  to  the  course  of  peace 
and justice.
Mr.  Van  Oosterom  (Netherlands):  The  Kingdom 
of  the  Netherlands  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made  by  the  observer  of  the  European  Union,  but  in 
view  of  the  importance  of  the  subject  matter  at  hand 
and recent developments, we would like to make some 
additional comments.
The Netherlands joins others in thanking President 
Fernández  de  Gurmendi  for  her  presence  here  today 
in  New  York  and  for  her  excellent  presentation  this 
morning (see A/71/PV.37). We would also like to thank 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  for  its  annual 
report to the United Nations (A/71/342).
Let me address three issues, namely, the fight against 
impunity, current challenges and universalization.
On  my  first  point,  the  Netherlands  is  deeply 
committed to the fight against impunity for genocide, 
crimes against humanity and war crimes. That fight is 
a  cornerstone  of  the  system  of  international  criminal 
justice.  The  imperative  to  investigate  and  prosecute 
those  crimes  at  a  national  level  is  a  key  principle  of 
all States’ legal obligations. The International Criminal 
Court  is  the  international  community’s  court  of  last 
resort in the fight against impunity. The ICC is therefore 
doing an extremely important job.
16-35451
11/22
A/71/PV.38 
31/10/2016
to  report 
this  year.  The 
As the annual report shows, the ICC has significant 
achievements 
landmark 
judgment  in  the  The  Prosecutor  v.  Ahmad  Al  Faqi  Al 
Mahdi  case  is  a  case  in  point.  The  internal  working 
methods  of  the  Court  have  been  improved,  and  that 
has made the International Criminal Court even more 
effective  and  efficient.  The  Court  deserves  to  be 
recognized for its achievements this year and supported 
in its important work.
That  brings  me  to  my  second  subject,  namely, 
current challenges, which has also been addressed by 
other speakers today. The Kingdom of the Netherlands, 
as a State party and proud host State to the International 
Criminal  Court,  regrets  the  stated  intention  of  South 
Africa,  Burundi  and  the  Gambia  to  withdraw  from 
the  Court.  Some  of  those  countries  were  closely 
involved  in  the  negotiations  on  the  Rome  Statute  and 
in the establishment of the Court. As the International 
Criminal Court is still a relatively new institution, we 
acknowledge that it is not perfect. However, we strongly 
believe that addressing any shortcomings of the Court 
can  best  be  done  as  a  State  party  at  the  Assembly  of 
States  Parties.  We  need  dialogue  with  other  States 
parties, not withdrawal.
The  Netherlands  acknowledges  that  withdrawal 
from  a  treaty  is  always  a  sovereign  act,  but  we  are 
deeply concerned about the message that that sends to 
the  victims  of  international  crimes  worldwide.  Those 
victims  deserve  accountability,  and 
they  deserve 
justice. And they look to the international community 
to  ensure  justice  through  strong  judicial  institutions, 
both domestic and international.
That brings me to my third subject — the need for 
universalization.  The  International  Criminal  Court 
embodies  universal  norms  and  universal  values.  The 
Kingdom of the Netherlands emphasizes the duty of all 
States  to  honour  their  obligations  under  international 
law  to  investigate  and  prosecute  international  crimes. 
We urgently call on all ICC States parties to reiterate 
their support for a strong international criminal justice 
system and for a strong International Criminal Court. 
The  ICC  is  the  world’s  only  permanent  international 
criminal tribunal. In that connection, the representative 
of Botswana said earlier that to withdraw from the ICC 
betrays  the  rights  of  the  victims  of  atrocity  crimes 
to  justice  and  that  to  withdraw  also  undermines 
the  progress  made  to  date  in  the  global  efforts  to 
fight impunity.
Similarly,  we  are  heartened  by  many  other 
statements  in  support  of  the  ICC  by  States,  eminent 
personalities  and  civil  society,  who  point  out  that  the 
arc  of  history  bends  towards  justice.  Therefore,  the 
Netherlands  urges  all  States  that  are  not  yet  a  State 
party to the Rome Statute to ratify the Statute. And we 
call  on  States  that  have  announced  their  withdrawal 
from  the  Court  to  reconsider  their  decision.  We 
welcome  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon’s  statement 
this  weekend  to  that  effect.  We  must  make  sure  that 
the  International  Criminal  Court  remains  the  strong 
institution  in  the  fight  against  impunity  that  victims 
of  atrocities  worldwide  need  it  to  be.  In  short,  the 
Kingdom of the Netherlands reiterates the importance 
of  universal  ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute  by  all 
United Nations Member States. 
In  conclusion,  The  Hague  is  the  proud  host  to  a 
great institution, the ICC. Let us work together to make 
this  venerable  institution  more  effective.  Let  us  work 
together to make it more universal, countering today’s 
challenges. And let us work together to let the ICC be 
a safeguard for the people of the world, a safeguard for 
justice and a s safeguard for peace.
(spoke 
(Argentina) 
Mr.  García  Moritán 
in 
Spanish): At the outset, the Republic of Argentina would 
like to thank the President of the International Criminal 
Court, our own Silvia Fernández de Gurmendi, for the 
report on the Court’s activities contained in document 
A/71/342.  I  am  also  grateful  for  the  presentation  of 
the  Secretary-General’s  reports  entitled  “Information 
relevant  to  the  implementation  of  article  3  of  the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and the International Criminal Court” (A/71/346) and 
“Expenses incurred and reimbursement received by the 
United Nations in connection with assistance provided 
to the International Criminal Court” (A/71/349).
The  Court,  through  the  laudable  work  that  it  has 
carried  out  since  its  previous  report,  has  once  again 
factually demonstrated that it is an essential tool in the 
fight against impunity and an essential element of the 
rule of law at the international level. In that connection, 
Argentina  welcomes  the  fact  that  the  amendments  to 
the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
on the crime of aggression have reached the minimum 
threshold of 30 ratifications, thereby giving the Court 
jurisdiction  to  hear  cases  regarding  the  crime  of 
aggression  as  of  January  2017.  Argentina  resolutely 
supports  granting  the  Court  that  power  as  soon  as 
possible,  as  it  will  cement  the  legal  structure  of  the 
12/22 
16-35451
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.38
Court and reaffirm the primacy of law and justice over 
force in international relations.
At a time when some States parties have announced 
their  intention  to  withdraw  from  the  Rome  Statute  of 
the International Criminal Court, Argentina renews its 
ongoing commitment to the Court and to the universal 
nature  of  the  Statute.  To  that  end,  we  call  on  all 
stakeholders to engage in constructive dialogue with a 
view to addressing the problems that may emerge within 
the Rome Statute system while upholding its integrity.
As  for  the  follow-up  to  the  Court’s  legal  and 
procedural work, we are pleased to see that it has been 
able to carry out its activities, both in its preliminary 
reviews and in the matters and cases brought before it, 
thus fulfilling its mandate with the limited resources it 
has been allocated. In that regard, we call on all Member 
States that are States parties to the Rome Statute of the 
International Criminal Court to consider the nature of 
the  Court  when  it  evaluates  its  annual  budget  so  that 
the  budget  can  be  approved  at  the  next  Assembly  of 
States Parties and the Court can fulfil its mandate and 
adequately discharge its essential functions. Similarly, 
we  urge  those  States  to  facilitate  the  streamlining  of 
proceedings by approving the amendments to the rules 
of  procedure  and  evidence  drafted  by  the  judges  and 
discussed  at  the  Working  Group  on  Governance  and 
Budget and the Working Group on Amendments.
I  would  like  to  mention  that  the  relationship 
between  the  Court  and  the  United  Nations  is  crucial, 
provided  the  Court  enjoys  judicial  independence. 
We  recognize  the  Secretary-General’s  guidelines  on 
non-essential  contact.  Nevertheless,  the  relationship 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Court  is  also 
affected by the relationship between the Court and the 
Security Council, since the Council can refer cases to 
the Court, and has done so on two occasions. Argentina 
has  voiced  some  of  its  concerns  for  years  now,  both 
in the General Assembly and in the Security Council, 
as  a  non-permanent  member.  Pursuant  to  the  Rome 
Statute, once the Court is referred a case, it can claim 
jurisdiction over nationals from both States parties and 
non-parties  to  the  Statute.  Indeed,  after  a  referral,  no 
Security Council pronouncement can change the rules 
of the Statute regarding the Court’s jurisdiction in order 
to provide immunity to nationals of States not parties to 
the Statue for crimes that fall under the Statute.
I would like to reiterate that thus far, the financial 
costs  incurred  by  the  Security  Council  when  it  refers 
cases  to  the  Court  have  been  borne  exclusively  by 
States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute.  The  Statute  itself 
provides  that  the  United  Nations  must  bear  the  cost 
of  these  referrals,  and  that  is  also  reflected  in  the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  International  Criminal  Court.  Argentina  and 
other  Members  of  the  United  Nations  have  called 
into  question  this  regrettable  situation  in  which  the 
States  parties  bear  the  cost  of  the  Council’s  referrals, 
despite  the  fact  that  the  great  majority  of  them 
support  the  full  implementation  of  paragraph  (b)  of 
article  115  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  article  13  of  the 
Relationship Agreement.
The  fight  against  impunity  is  an  objective  of 
the  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  of  the 
United  Nations,  but  it  must  go  hand  in  hand  with  the 
commitment to providing the Court with the necessary 
resources for it to discharge its functions. Inaction, in 
that respect, could jeopardize the sustainability of the 
Court’s investigations and could impact the credibility 
of the Organization.
stresses 
that 
In  conclusion,  Argentina 
the 
noteworthy contribution of the International Criminal 
Court to the fight against impunity for the most serious 
international crimes is also a contribution to furthering 
the objectives of the Organization. We also highlight, 
as  does  the  Kampala  Declaration,  the  noble  mission 
and  function  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  in 
a  multilateral  system  whose  objective  is  to  promote 
respect  for  human  rights  and  attain  lasting  peace, 
while  upholding  international  law  and  the  purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
We also reiterate Argentina’s firm commitment to the 
International Criminal Court.
Mr. Martín y Pérez de Nanclares (Spain) (spoke 
in Spanish): It is a great honour to address the General 
Assembly  once  again  on  an  issue  to  which  Spain 
attaches  the  greatest  importance.  The  fight  against 
the  most  heinous  international  crimes  is,  without  a 
doubt,  an  essential  component  of  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  justice,  and  it  is  also  an 
unavoidable imperative that derives from the principle 
of  the  rule  of  law.  To  combat  impunity,  to  bring  the 
perpetrators of such crimes to justice and to do justice 
to the victims should be an inalienable goal of the entire 
international community. That is why I fully associate 
myself with the statement delivered by the observer of 
the European Union.
16-35451
13/22
A/71/PV.38 
31/10/2016
Before  I  continue,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  for  its  detailed 
annual report to the United Nations for the period from 
1  August  2015  to  31  July  2016  (A/71/342).  I  would 
like  to  offer  a  special,  heartfelt  thanks  to  President 
Fernández de Gurmendi for her interesting and thorough 
presentation this morning. We congratulate her on her 
laudable work at the helm of the Court. We also wish to 
thank Prosecutor Bensouda and the entire staff of the 
International Criminal Court.
Since  the  beginning  of  the  drafting  of  the  Rome 
Statute,  Spain  has  been  a  staunch  proponent  of 
the  role  given  to  the  Court  in  the  difficult  work  of 
fighting impunity using the tools of international law. 
Additionally, in 2010 my country actively participated 
in  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court.  In  keeping  with  its 
aims,  the  Kingdom  of  Spain  deposited  its  ratification 
instrument  for  the  Kampala  Amendments  early,  on 
24 September 2014. Without a doubt, my country will 
maintain  its  long-standing,  wholehearted  and  firm 
support for the work of the Court.
During  the  period  of  work  covered  by  the  report, 
Spain’s Parliament approved a new law on immunities, 
organic law 16/2015, which in both its preamble and its 
articles  expressly  affirms  Spain’s  commitment  to  the 
Court. Spain will never grant preferential treatment or 
immunities to Heads of State, Heads of Government or 
Foreign Ministers by citing ordinary law in an attempt 
to evade prosecution by the Court.
The year under review in the report submitted for 
the General Assembly’s consideration was particularly 
intense  and  productive  —  23  cases  in  10  matters;  11 
matters  submitted  for  preliminary  review;  a  new 
investigation  by  the  Prosecutor  —  an  impressive 
record. The Court has achieved a good cruising speed, 
but  beyond  a  quantitative  analysis  —  undoubtedly 
important — we would note that both the investigations 
and  the  reviews  carried  out  by  the  Court  are  widely 
distributed 
four 
continents,  to  be  precise.  That  is  clearly  a  source  of 
pride  and  appreciation.  It  attests  to  the  effective  and 
efficient work of the Court.
geographically, 
extending 
to 
My  delegation  notes  with  satisfaction  that  the 
threshold of the 30 ratifications needed for the entry into 
force of the amendments to the Rome Statute relative to 
the crime of aggression was reached this year. As such, 
Palestine’s  deposit  of  its  instrument  of  ratification  on 
26  June  marks  compliance  with  the  first  requirement 
established in the Statute for its entry into force. The 
next step will be for the Assembly of States Parties to 
set a date for their activation. In that connection, Spain 
trusts  that  the  Assembly  will  be  able  to  adopt  that 
decision with the greatest possible support from States 
parties. Moreover, it is essential to carefully study all 
manner  of  implications,  judicial  and  extrajudicial,  of 
the broader Court jurisdiction with a view to avoiding 
future obstacles to its implementation.
But,  along  with  these  positive  elements  there  are 
also  worrisome  elements.  One  very  serious  concern 
cannot be ignored — the International Criminal Court 
is  going  through  a  very  difficult  period,  probably  the 
most difficult in its history. For the first time since its 
creation,  three  States  have  announced  their  intention 
to  use  the  withdrawal  mechanism,  provided  for  in 
article 127 of the Rome Statute. As a result, effective 
one year after the date in which the Secretary-General 
receives written notification, they will withdraw from 
the  Court.  Spain  deeply  regrets  the  situation  and  is 
concerned about its possible implications for the future 
of the Court.
If  such  actions  are  carried  out,  it  would  set  a 
very  negative  precedent.  Nevertheless,  my  delegation 
believes  that  the  current  role  of  those  who  resolutely 
support  the  work  of  the  ICC  should  be  more  about 
building bridges and being constructive and less about 
excessive criticism and disproportionate complaints. It 
may even be an opportune moment for all of us to look 
critically at ourselves so that we can approach the future 
of the Court with renewed vigour. That is why we echo 
the invitation of the President of the Assembly of States 
Parties,  Mr.  Sidiki  Kaba,  to  the  States  in  question  to 
reconsider their position.
Whatever the result, the quest for universalization 
should  continue  to  be  a  fundamental  and  essential 
objective. The same is true for the related principles of 
complementarity  and  cooperation.  In  fact,  as  regards 
the  latter,  it  is  imperative  to  once  again  call  for  the 
cooperation of all with the Court — first and foremost 
States, but probably also the United Nations, as it has 
the  power  to  improve  the  mechanisms  with  which  to 
enforce the obligations arising from the cases submitted 
to the Court. However, that should not prevent us from 
commending the important cooperative role the United 
Nations  is  already  playing.  The  Court’s  report  can 
attest to that.
14/22 
16-35451
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.38
In conclusion, Spain highlights the vital importance 
of the International Criminal Court in the maintenance 
of peace, justice and the rule of law through effectively 
combating  impunity  for  the  most  serious  crimes 
against humanity. We also reiterate our country’s firm 
commitment to achieving that laudable objective.
Mr.  Hahn  (Republic  of  Korea):  First  of  all,  the 
Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to  extend  its  sincere 
appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Judge  Silvia  Fernández  de 
Gurmendi,  for  her  presentation  of  the  comprehensive 
report  (A/71/342).  My  delegation  also  commends  the 
joint  efforts  of  the  Presidency,  the  Judicial  Division, 
the Office of the Prosecutor and the Registry in helping 
to  put  an  end  to  impunity  for  the  perpetrators  of  the 
most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to  the  international 
community  as  a  whole 
through  various  means, 
including the more effective and efficient functioning 
of the Court.
It has been 14 years already since the International 
Criminal  Court  was  established  as  an  independent 
permanent  Court,  in  relationship  with  the  United 
Nations.  The  fundamental  tenet  of  that  relationship, 
as  envisioned  in  the  Rome  Statute,  is  encapsulated 
in  the  reaffirmation  of  the  purpose  and  principles  of 
the Charter of the United Nations and the preamble of 
the Statute, which was actively followed in the actual 
practice of the Court. In that vein, and although running 
the  risk  of  being  somewhat  repetitive,  my  delegation 
cannot but emphasize the significant role that ICC has 
played through its work to sustain the three pillars of 
United  Nations  activity,  namely,  peace  and  security, 
development and human rights.
that 
Securing  criminal 
in  mind,  we  support 
justice  for  perpetrators  of 
grave crimes that shock the conscience of humankind 
constitutes  part  and  parcel  of  the  rule  of  law,  which 
provides a solid basis for the successful implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
Bearing 
the  ongoing 
cooperation between the ICC and the United Nations at 
various levels, as stated in the report and presentation. 
The Republic of Korea does not see the need to go over 
the  multifarious  achievements  of  the  Court  thus  far, 
especially  during  the  reporting  period.  Nevertheless, 
we would be remiss if we failed to mention precedent-
setting decisions such as those relating to international 
attacks on religious and historical buildings, command 
responsibility, sexual violence and offences against the 
administration of justice.
While the progress that the Court has made in its 
path to ending impunity is quite remarkable, the Court 
has also been facing a harsh reality on several fronts. 
With  the  help  of  various  stakeholders,  most  notably 
States parties, the Court should rise above considerable 
challenges  to  firmly  establish  itself  as  a  robust  and 
reliable institution for international criminal justice. I 
would like to elaborate on those challenges.
First  of  all,  given  the  sheer  pace  and  scale  of  the 
increase in caseload, it is imperative that the ICC enhance 
efficiency at various stages while not losing sight of the 
importance of striking a balance between fairness and 
expediency.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  appreciates 
that  the  Court  continues  to  focus  on  streamlining  its 
procedures, as demonstrated by the publication of the 
practice manual of the Judicial Divisions, a useful and 
comprehensive update to the previous practice manual. 
Such  initiatives  are  conducive  not  only  to  enhancing 
the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  the  functioning  of 
the  Court,  but  also  to  garnering  the  renewed  support 
and 
trust  of  States  parties.  My  delegation  also 
congratulates the Court on its relocation to the new and 
permanent premises.
Secondly,  as  an  international  Court,  the  ICC 
cannot sustain itself without the active cooperation of 
multiple stakeholders, especially States parties, at each 
and  every  step  of  the  process.  While  the  cooperation 
between  the  ICC  and  States  parties  is  vital,  it  is  also 
indispensable to the proper functioning of the system 
to secure cooperation vis-à-vis the Assembly of States 
Parties,  the  United  Nations  and  other  international 
organizations, 
and 
non-States parties. Against that backdrop, even though 
it  is  regrettable  that  the  ICC  has  been  suffering  from 
insufficient cooperation for an extended period of time, 
it is encouraging that States parties, together with the 
Court, have been relentlessly making efforts to develop 
various  strategies  and  tools  to  cope  with  the  issue  of 
non-cooperation.
organizations 
civil-society 
Thirdly,  the  success  of  our  common  fight  against 
impunity hinges not only on adequate cooperation, but 
also on the universal application of the Rome Statute. 
The  number  of  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute 
has  more  than  doubled  since  its  entry  into  force  in 
2002, which is quite significant. However, it is deeply 
concerning that the number of new entrants to the ICC 
family  has  been  on  the  decline  in  recent  years.  Even 
more  disconcerting  is  that  several  States  parties  have 
withdrawn over the past weeks.
16-35451
15/22
A/71/PV.38 
31/10/2016
At this juncture, my delegation would like to call 
upon  the  States  parties  that  have  already  made  or 
are  considering  making  the  decision  to  withdraw,  to 
sincerely  give  it  a  second  thought.  There  is  a  Korean 
saying which reads: “In times of difficulty, recall the 
resolve at the beginning of the enterprise”. Other States 
parties  and  the  Court  also  need  to  enhance  outreach 
efforts to those States and exercise collective wisdom 
in order to delve into and address the real and perceived 
concerns  of  those  States.  We  cannot  and  should  not 
afford  ourselves  the  luxury  of  allowing  the  progress 
made  in  humankind’s  noble  efforts  to  put  an  end  to 
impunity  for  the  perpetrators  of  heinous  atrocities  to 
take a reverse turn.
The  Republic  of  Korea  has  been  a  steadfast 
supporter of the ICC since its inception. As a member of 
the Bureau, we are actively participating in concerted 
efforts to establish the ICC as a responsible, universal 
and efficient institution to end impunity for perpetrators 
of  the  most  serious  crimes  against  humanity.  Let  me 
conclude my statement with the reaffirmation that the 
Republic of Korea will continue to spare no effort in this 
noble and important endeavour at both the International 
Criminal Court and the United Nations.
Mr. Amolo (Kenya): Kenya takes this opportunity 
to  recognize  Judge  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi, 
President of the International Criminal Court. Over the 
years we have continued to encourage the International 
Criminal Court (ICC) to expand its activities, enhance 
its  work  and  improve  its  efficiencies  and  footprint  so 
that  no  country  would  have  a  privileged  relationship 
within  it.  Kenya  continues  to  engage  robustly  in 
encouraging  and  providing  guidance  to  the  Court 
to  try  and  keep  it  faithful  to  our  collective  objective, 
while keeping it aligned with the letter and spirit of the 
Rome Statute. As we carefully review the report of the 
International Criminal Court (A/71/342) that is before 
us today, we cannot help but renew and underscore our 
deep disappointment.
This session’s report is slightly more encouraging 
than that of the last session. However, we continue to 
express our deepest regret that in a world consumed by 
devastating wars and violent clashes, where hundreds 
of  thousands,  if  not  millions,  of  people  have  been 
adversely affected, that dismal output of tangible results 
is  disheartening  and  simply  confounding.  Obviously, 
something 
the  International 
Criminal  Court.  With  only  one  new  accession  during 
the reporting period, it is clear that the Court continues 
is  deeply  wrong  at 
to  enjoy  the  membership  and  support  of  only  a  small 
segment of countries in the world. We take note with 
very keen interest of the recent important developments 
within  the  membership  and  shall  continue  to  actively 
monitor  the  unfolding  events.  Like  no  other  member 
State, Kenya has actively and intimately interacted with 
the Court over the past few years and can unequivocally 
state that something radical and urgent must be done if 
the Court is to stand any chance of long-term survival 
as a viable and credible international institution.
A  cursory  reading  of  the  annual  report  may  lead 
one  to  believe  that  indeed  some  success  is  at  hand. 
However,  Kenya  wishes  to  highlight  a  few  pertinent 
issues,  for  we  know  and  believe  that  the  current 
application  of  the  Rome  Statute  is  counterproductive 
and  conflicts  with  its  founding  ideals.  When  we,  the 
Member States, established the International Criminal 
Court,  we  were  convinced  that  we  were  setting  up  a 
court with higher standards of practices and procedures 
than those found in our national jurisdictions. However, 
today we find ourselves saddled with a Court that has 
lower thresholds and standards than those found in our 
national courts. That is simply unacceptable.
To  illustrate  that,  paragraphs  49  and  50  of  the 
report mention ongoing investigations into the situation 
in  Kenya.  The  integrity  of  the  investigations  in  the 
Kenyan  cases  has  been  called  into  question  owing  to 
the alarming but credible revelations that the witnesses 
were  procured  with  promises  of  reward.  The  efficacy 
of that information, which is now more than eight years 
old and is still being received by the Court, is now even 
more suspect. Furthermore, the revelations of witness 
tampering  that  led  190  members  of  the  Parliament  of 
the Republic of Kenya to petition the President of the 
Security Council and the President of the Assembly of 
States  Parties,  seeking  their  intervention  in  resolving 
this, remains unanswered. Under the guise of judicial 
and  prosecutorial  independence,  we  have  to  date 
received  no  substantive  response  from  the  Court, 
the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  or  the  Assembly.  The 
studious, calculated silence of some Member States is 
particularly troubling.
the 
During 
reporting  period,  2,571  victims 
were  admitted  to  participate  in  proceedings  before 
the  Court.  It  is  Kenya’s  experience  that  the  issue  of 
admitting  victims  remains  a  likely  avenue  for  abuse. 
We  are  concerned  that  adequate  measures  are  not 
in  place  to  ensure  that  only  genuine  victims,  and 
indeed witnesses, are included in the proceedings and 
16/22 
16-35451
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.38
availed  the  protections  laid  out  in  the  Rome  Statute. 
Notwithstanding  the  huge  financial  outlay  and  the 
pressure  on  an  already  overstretched  budget,  we 
remain concerned that any attempt to raise that matter 
continues to be met by stiff resistance, again, under the 
guise of protecting the independence of the Court and 
its organs.
Another  matter  of  concern  to  Kenya  is  that,  save 
for a casual mention in paragraph 83, the report fails to 
address the very pertinent issue of financing of Security 
Council  referrals.  Despite  the  heated  and  sometimes 
unpleasant discussions we hold in the General Assembly 
annually,  Kenya’s  effort  to  have  a  genuine  discussion 
on this pertinent matter continues to be met by dogged 
resistance on the part of some States parties and some 
non-States parties alike. Yet again, we find the Court 
unable to unshackle itself from the influence of a group 
of Member States, which continue to use their might, 
as  major  contributors  to  the  budgets  of  international 
organizations, to block any discussions on the matter. If 
the Court is to make any meaningful impact, the General 
Assembly must take its rightful place and address this 
problem, notwithstanding any manipulation on the part 
of a country or group of countries.
The  ICC  was  never  intended  to  replace  national 
courts and is a court of last resort. Therefore, greater 
emphasis should be accorded to supporting national and 
regional initiatives. In that regard, African States have 
tried  to  engage  constructively  with  the  International 
Criminal  Court  with  little  success.  Despite  all  our 
individual and collective efforts to initiate and develop 
an enabling environment for constructive dialogue with 
the ICC, that has not happened. We therefore appreciate 
the cogent remarks of the representative of Japan, who 
said  that  “the  ICC  and  its  States  parties  should  listen 
to  the  concerns  expressed  by  the  wider  audience” 
(A/71/PV.37, p.12). The representative of New Zealand 
insisted  that  Africa’s  problems  with  the  ICC  “merit 
careful consideration” (ibid, p.13). Yes, indeed they do.
The  attempts  of  members  of  the  African  Union’s 
open-ended ministerial committee on the ICC to meet 
with the Security Council continue to be thwarted through 
an arcane, self-serving reading and interpretation of the 
Security Council’s rules of procedure. On the sidelines 
of the General Assembly high-level week in September, 
a  planned  meeting  failed  to  take  place  because  of  a 
mismatch  in  the  levels  of  representation.  It  should  be 
noted for the record that, before this meeting was called 
off,  the  Ministers  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  five  African 
countries were present at the appointed time and venue, 
in  line  with  the  established  rules  and  practices  of 
diplomatic engagement, and were ready to proceed, to 
no avail.
Chapter  III,  section  B,  of  the  report  is  entitiled 
“Cooperation  with  and  assistance  from  States,  other 
international  organizations  and  civil  society”.  Once 
again, Kenya takes note of what is a glaring omission 
in paragraph 98, that is, the absence of any mention of 
the African Union. We are convinced that the African 
Union continues to be largely ignored by the ICC. One 
would think that, as the bulk of the work is centred in 
Africa,  there  would  be  a  greater  and  more  proactive 
effort on the part of the Court to increase its interaction 
and cooperation with the African Union and the African 
member States.
Given  the  obvious  lack  of  interaction,  we  can 
only  conclude  that  the  ICC  is  not  ready  to  engage 
constructively  with  African  States.  That  unfortunate 
state of affairs must be discouraged. All well-meaning 
suggestions of remedial action have fallen on deaf ears. 
The representative of Tanzania made a very thoughtful 
and  well-balanced  presentation.  He  urged  us  to  make 
deliberate efforts to talk to one another — I may add, 
not at one another. The representative of China urged us 
to respect the sovereign right of African States to make 
their own decisions.
In  conclusion,  this  perfunctory  report  we  have  in 
front of us fails to tackle the real issues facing the ICC 
and  fails  to  offer  any  insight  on  possible  pragmatic 
solutions  as  we  proceed.  None  of  the  organizational 
realities  and  challenges  that  the  Court  has  faced  in 
implementing its mandate are contained in this report. 
It curiously lacks deep analysis and a well-thought-out, 
balanced perspective. The continued silence of Member 
States as we fail to identify the real issues affecting the 
ICC  and  instead  just  gloss  over  them  will  undermine 
the 
the  Court.  Kenya’s  continued 
acceptance  of  the  status  quo  would  only  undermine 
the legitimacy of the Court and its core mandate — the 
fight against impunity.
legitimacy  of 
Mr.  Yaremenko  (Ukraine):  The  International 
Criminal Court (ICC) is the only permanent international 
court  established  to  put  an  end  to  impunity  for  the 
perpetrators of the most serious crimes of international 
concern and thereby to contribute to the prevention of 
such crimes as well as to the progressive development 
of international criminal law.
16-35451
17/22
A/71/PV.38 
31/10/2016
We  welcome  the  steady  progress  of  the  Court  as 
it  deals  with  more  cases  and  situations  than  ever.  We 
appreciate  the  ICC’s  examination  of  the  situation  in 
Ukraine  in  terms  of  crimes  against  humanity  and 
war  crimes,  following  our  declarations  under  article 
12,  paragraph  3,  of  the  Rome  Statute,  and  we  look 
forward to the outcome of its work. Ukraine also hails 
the  Court’s  recent  judgments  on  offences  against  the 
administration of justice and the war crime of attacking 
world  heritage  sites.  It  is  important  for  the  Court  to 
be  able  to  intervene  in  situations  where  violence  is 
under way.
More  specifically,  the  ICC  must  be  able  to  fully 
exercise its deterring role, as Ukraine is affected by the 
hostile and aggressive actions of the Russian Federation, 
rendering  thousands  within  the  military  and  civilian 
population — including women and children — killed, 
wounded or gone missing, not to mention over a million 
internally displaced persons. In that regard, we cannot 
overestimate the importance of States’ cooperation in 
combating serious crimes.
Ukraine  actively  participated  in  the  Preparatory 
Committee  on  the  Establishment  of  an  International 
Criminal Court, signed the Rome Statute and was the 
first  non-State  party  to  ratify  the  Agreement  on  the 
Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the  ICC.  However,  the 
Rome Statute provisions on the complementarity of the 
Court were in contradiction to Ukraine’s Constitution. 
Today we are pleased to announce that the Ukrainian 
parliament  has  recently  adopted  a  constitutional 
amendment,  paving  the  way  for  Ukraine  to  ratify 
the  Rome  Statute.  We  are  currently  drafting  the 
enabling legislation.
the  Rome  Statute.  We  echo 
In  that  connection,  we  are  particularly  concerned 
over  the  recent  withdrawal  of  a  number  of  African 
countries  from 
the 
sentiment  of  the  President  of  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties,  Mr.  Sidiki  Kaba,  when  he  said  that  the 
international  community  must  remain  united  to  face 
the enormous challenge of preventing the commission 
of the most serious crimes and prosecuting the alleged 
perpetrators  —  whoever  and  wherever  they  are  —  to 
ensure peace, stability and security in the world. The 
international  community  must  consolidate  its  support 
for ICC efforts to ensure universal justice for all victims 
of mass crimes.
In that context, it is of paramount importance that 
32 States parties have already ratified the amendments 
to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court on the crime of aggression. We look forward to 
a decision by the Assembly of States Parties to activate 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  such  crimes  in  the  very 
near  future.  However,  we  regret  the  restricted  scope 
of  the  ICC’s  authority  inasmuch  as  it  would  have  no 
jurisdiction  over  non-States  parties  or  States  parties 
that  do  not  ratify  the  amendment  unless  the  case  is 
referred by the Security Council.
Still, we put our trust in the Court, which has already 
established  itself  as  an  efficient  universal  mechanism 
to promote the rule of law and to ensure that the gravest 
international crimes do not go unpunished. By failing to 
bring those responsible for the worst crimes to justice, 
we  incite  violence  in  the  rest  of  the  world.  All  those 
who intend to commit the gravest international crimes 
must be sure that punishment is inevitable regardless of 
their position or nationality.
Mr. Shingiro (Burundi) (spoke in French): I would 
like  to  begin  my  statement  by  thanking  the  President 
of the International Criminal Court (ICC), Judge Silvia 
Fernández de Gurmendi, for her thorough presentation 
of the annual report of the ICC (A/71/342), submitted 
this morning for our review.
My delegation has taken note of and reviewed the 
Court’s annual report on its work during the 2015-2016 
reporting  period,  which  was  introduced  this  morning 
before  the  General  Assembly,  pursuant  to  article  6 
of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  International  Criminal  Court  and 
paragraph 28 of resolution 70/264. Before entering into 
detailed  remarks,  my  delegation  wishes  to  reiterate 
Burundi’s  commitment  to  the  principle  shared  by 
many  —  to  fight  against  impunity  in  all  of  its  forms 
and manifestations. Burundi also supports the principle 
that impartial and equitable justice contributes greatly 
to the consolidation of peace and reconciliation within 
from  conflict.  Moreover, 
communities  emerging 
we  are  firmly  committed 
the  principles  of 
non-selectivity,  objectivity  and  non-politicization  of 
international  justice.  In  Burundi’s  view,  international 
justice  as  a  complement  to  national  jurisdiction  is  a 
noble  principle  and  one  that  must  not  be  subjected  to 
political calculations.
to 
Since  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which 
established  the  International  Criminal  Court  in  1998, 
and  its  entry  into  force  on  1  July  2002,  following  its 
ratification by 60 States, the Court has seen its share 
18/22 
16-35451
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.38
of  highs  and  lows  in  carrying  out  its  functions  and 
in  dispensing  justice  on  behalf  of  the  victims  of  all 
types of crimes. Despite its efforts in providing justice 
for  victims,  we  nevertheless  deplore  the  occurrence 
from  time  to  time  and  in  various  places  of  violations 
of  the  sacred  principles  that  underpin  the  legal  basis 
of  the  countries  concerned  and  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.
I  begin  with  the  principle  of  complementarity  of 
international justice, which is considered, as we know, 
the backbone of the Rome Statute of the International 
Criminal  Court.  The  Rome  Statute,  to  which  124 
States  subscribe,  was  never  intended  to  replace  the 
national 
the  States  parties.  Once 
again,  we  emphasize  the  importance  of  the  principle 
of  complementarity,  according  to  which  the  ICC  can 
be  seized  of  a  matter  only  if  the  State  concerned  has 
neither the will nor the ability to prosecute those guilty 
of the most serious crimes committed on its territory.
jurisdiction  of 
It 
is  not 
to 
recall 
redundant  here 
that 
complementarity  is  at  the  core  of  the  Rome  Statute 
because the fight against impunity depends on efforts 
to build and strengthen the national capacities required 
to carry out investigations and conduct trials in cases 
of the most serious crimes. We therefore hope that the 
ICC will finally recognize the jurisdiction of the States’ 
courts and tribunals to try crimes committed on their 
national  territories.  Moreover,  we  note  —  in  what  is 
an unfortunate observation — that the principle of the 
primacy of national jurisdiction, enshrined in the Rome 
Statute, is not being applied as it should be in certain 
situations referred to the Court.
In  that  regard,  it  is  not  surprising  to  see  that  the 
impartiality  and  objectivity  of  the  Court  is  being 
called  into  question  by  a  growing  number  of  States. 
Public  opinion  in  Africa  has  begun  to  see  the  Court 
as  the  juridical  realm  of  certain  so-called  powerful 
countries.  We  believe  that  African  countries  should 
reconsider 
the  Rome  Statute 
because the International Criminal Court has recently 
become a biased instrument at the service of a category 
of  countries,  a  tool  with  which  to  exercise  political 
pressure and, in some cases, to effect regime change in 
developing countries, in general, and African countries, 
in particular.
their  accessions 
to 
Furthermore,  my  delegation  recalls 
the 
selectivity,  the  lack  of  objectivity  and  the  tendency 
towards  politicization  which  the  Court  has  shown  in 
that 
its targeting of only African States and Heads of State, 
led to the convening of an extraordinary session of the 
Assembly of the African Union on 12 October 2013. It 
is clear that the ICC is focusing all of its attention on 
Africa, while unacceptable situations in other parts of 
the world go unacknowledged.
We are concerned by the fact that the ICC budget 
is  more  than  50  per  cent  dependent  on  the  voluntary 
contributions of Member States. This lack of a proper 
budget  seriously  calls  the  Court’s  independence  into 
question, and it sometime finds itself overwhelmed by 
political pressure exerted by those most responsible for 
its financial straits.
The  substance  of  my  comments,  which  are  by  no 
means  exhaustive,  has  recently  compelled  Burundi  to 
withdraw  from  the  list  of  States  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  at  the 
explicit  request  of  the  people  of  Burundi  through  a 
joint  session  of  the  two  Houses  of  their  Parliament. 
The  notification  letter  was  officially  transmitted  on 
7 October to the Secretary-General, in accordance with 
the procedure provided for in the Statute. We have duly 
noted  the  requests  of  delegations  addressed  to  States 
that  have  recently  withdrawn  from  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  or  are  in  the  process  of  doing  so,  to 
reconsider their positions. Let me recall, however, that 
accession to an international treaty is an act that falls 
exclusively  within  the  realm  of  national  sovereignty. 
Similarly, withdrawal from a treaty to which a State is 
party is a sovereign decision and should not elicit the 
amount of commentary from other Member States that 
it has.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  reiterates  its  firm 
commitment to the fight against impunity in all its forms 
and  manifestations.  My  country,  Burundi,  sincerely 
believes  in  the  primacy  of  national  jurisdiction  and 
the  objectivity,  non-selectivity  and  non-politicization 
of  international  justice.  Until  those  principles  are 
strictly  observed,  the  International  Criminal  Court 
will  have  difficulty  convincing  all  the  States  parties 
of  its  impartiality,  as  enshrined  in  the  Statute.  In  the 
interests of its survival and of international justice, the 
Court should acknowledge its shortcomings and agree 
to  a  comprehensive  reform,  to  meet  the  legitimate 
concerns  of  various  developing  countries  with  regard 
to  its  functioning  and  its  current  policy  of  double 
standards, which has affected several African leaders. 
In  the  absence  of  such  a  structural  reform,  which  we 
all  desire,  those  injured  States  parties  will  have  no 
16-35451
19/22
A/71/PV.38 
31/10/2016
choice other than to call for the establishment of a truly 
independent,  impartial  and  equitable  international 
criminal  jurisdiction,  capable  of  resisting  political 
pressures  from  the  so-called  powerful  countries  and 
of exercising its jurisdiction in any country, regardless 
of  the  latter’s  size,  geographical  location  or  level 
of development.
Mr.  Medina  (Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela) 
(spoke in Spanish): My delegation thanks the President 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  Silvia  Fernández 
de  Gurmendi,  for  introducing  the  annual  report  of 
the  Court  (A/71/342)  to  the  General  Assembly,  in 
accordance with article 6 of the Relationship Agreement 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
Criminal Court, on the work performed by the Court in 
fighting impunity and promoting justice for the victims 
of crimes, in accordance with the Rome Statute.
As a State party to the International Criminal Court 
since its establishment in 2002, the Bolivarian Republic 
of Venezuela champions and supports the strengthening 
of its institutional standing and effectiveness in carrying 
out its functions, thereby promoting its universalization 
in order to strengthen the rule of law at the national and 
international  levels.  In  that  regard,  cooperation  is  an 
essential aspect in achieving the objectives of the Court.
Venezuela supports the efforts of the International 
Criminal Court to ensure that justice and accountability 
are  respected  and  that  the  Court  can  promote  the 
establishment of a comprehensive and effective justice 
system in accordance with the principles of autonomy, 
independence,  impartiality  and  objectivity  enshrined 
in the Rome Statute.
Mr.  Musikhin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): During the Assembly’s debate on resolution 
58/318  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  the 
Russian  delegation  laid  out  a  detailed  account  of  our 
understanding  of  the  problems  within  and  around  the 
Court,  which  have  unfortunately  been  increasingly 
compounded  in  recent  years.  Without  going  into  it 
again, we will note only that the statements of a number 
of States about their withdrawal from the Rome Statute 
have  affirmed  the  validity  of  our  opinions  about 
the  Court.  We  urge  the  Court  to  look  at  the  situation 
objectively.  It  is  time  to  move  on  from  the  romantic 
views that prevailed when the Statute was being framed 
and to be realistic.
to  participate 
The  decision  on  whether 
in 
international  treaties  is  a  State’s  sovereign  right,  and 
there is therefore no point in trying to put pressure on 
countries that withdraw from the ICC. The political and 
legal reasons they give are understandable and should 
be  respected,  and  we  are  not  hearing  about  them  for 
the  first  time.  However,  all  of  these  States’  attempts 
to  have  their  voices  heard,  and  all  their  proposals  for 
modifications of the Court’s practices, including those 
pertaining to customary laws concerning immunity for 
senior officials, have been ignored. And yet for a long 
time there has been good reason to look critically at the 
work of the Court and analyse its shortcomings.
The  statements  made  by  the  representatives  of 
Georgia and Ukraine are glaring examples of attempts 
to exploit the International Criminal Court for political 
and propaganda purposes. We have already commented 
often  on  the  merits  of  such  attacks.  With  regard  to 
the  Court’s  ongoing  preliminary  investigation  of  the 
situation in Ukraine, we would like to draw attention 
to  the  shocking  brutality  of  the  crimes  committed  by 
the  Kyiv  authorities  and  the  radicals  loyal  to  them.  I 
should point out that the source of that information is 
the  latest  report  of  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  (OHCHR)  on 
the human rights situation in Ukraine.
To give examples, the report cites horrifying cases 
of  sexual  and  gender-based  violence  against  both 
women  and  men  by  Ukrainian  armed  forces  and  law 
enforcement.  I  cannot  bring  myself  to  repeat  in  the 
General  Assembly  the  descriptions  of  the  atrocities 
documented in the report. Ramrods, electric shocks and 
hot plastic are used as instruments of torture. Besides the 
sexual and gender-based violence, the report describes 
beatings  —  in  one  case,  a  woman  was  beaten  about 
the  head  with  a  metal  pipe  —  and  threats  of  murder 
and  rape,  including  of  minors.  In  another  instance,  a 
man was arrested in a Government-controlled area in 
the Donetsk region. He was taken a shooting range in 
the basement of the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) 
building in Mariupol, where he was beaten, suffocated 
with a plastic bag, submerged in cold water and had his 
ribs  broken  by  a  man  who  jumped  on  his  torso.  Four 
additional  verified  cases  from  2015  corroborate  the 
use of the Mariupol SBU building for incommunicado 
detention and torture. Those are just some examples of 
a series of crimes committed by the Ukrainian armed 
forces and law-enforcement authorities and cited in the 
report.  In  general,  the  report  notes  that  about  70  per 
20/22 
16-35451
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.38
cent of the cases recorded by OHCHR involved torture, 
ill-treatment  or  incommunicado  detention  before  the 
detainees  were  transferred  to  the  Ukrainian  criminal 
justice system.
including  those  alleged  to  be  by  our  armed  forces.  I 
can assure the Assembly that we investigate such cases 
scrupulously and with the intention of bringing all the 
perpetrators to justice.
At the same time, paragraph 64 of the report says 
that OHCHR is “concerned by the lack of progress in 
investigations  into  the  conduct  of  Ukrainian  armed 
forces and SBU”. One example noted is the absence of 
any investigation into the 2 June 2014 aerial attack on 
the  Luhansk  Regional  State  Administration  building, 
which resulted in the deaths of seven civilians. As the 
report notes, with regard to cases related to the bloody 
events  of  2  May  2014  in  Odessa,  significant  pressure 
continues to be put on the judiciary. I want to emphasize 
that all of this information comes not from the Russian 
media but from data collected by the Office of the High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  which  operates  in 
Ukraine on the invitation of the Government. Despite 
all the shortcomings in OHCHR implementation of its 
mission,  which  we  have  repeatedly  drawn  attention 
to,  even  it  could  not  ignore  these  kinds  of  facts.  We 
shall  see  how  the  ICC  responds  to  them  and  much 
similar information.
We  would  like  to  encourage  delegations  to  think 
about this information and take it into account, including 
when considering their positions on the draft resolution 
on human rights in Crimea submitted by Ukraine in the 
Third Committee. Against the backdrop of lawlessness 
instituted by the Kyiv authorities in their own country, 
that  draft  resolution  looks  particularly  hypocritical, 
and  support  for  it  will  strengthen  their  belief  in  their 
impunity  and  encourage  them  to  continue  to  commit 
crimes against their citizens and to direct hate speech 
at Russia and all things Russian.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on this item.
Several  representatives  have  asked  to  speak  in 
exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  I  would  like  to  remind 
members  that  statements  in  exercise  of  the  right  of 
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first statement 
and to five minutes for the second, and should be made 
by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Yaremenko (Ukraine): I would like to exercise 
my  right  of  reply  with  regard  to  the  statement  just 
made by the representative of the Russian Federation. 
I would first like to emphasize all of my Government’s 
commitments  on  human  rights.  We  take  all  cases  of 
violations of human rights of any kind very seriously, 
Secondly, I would like to remind the Assembly that 
the root cause of the situation in Ukraine is the Russian 
Federation’s  aggression  against  my  country.  Two  and 
a  half  years  ago,  the  Russian  Federation  occupied 
the  Autonomous  Republic  of  Crimea  and  the  city  of 
Sevastopol.  Since  then,  it  has  committed  crimes  and 
acts of aggression against my country in various parts 
of  the  Donbas  region.  My  country  invited  the  Office 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human 
Rights  to  come  to  Ukraine.  We  have  provided  every 
assistance  to  its  Monitoring  Mission  there  and  have 
been  entirely  open  and  transparent  where  its  work  is 
concerned. However, in contravention of the Mission’s 
mandate,  it  has  had  no  access  to  the  temporarily 
occupied  part  of  Ukraine  —  that  is,  the  Autonomous 
Republic  of  Crimea.  We  therefore  ask  our  colleagues 
from other delegations to support our draft resolution, 
which will be introduced in the Third Committee today. 
Its main focus is on access and reporting. That is it.
I  would  once  again  like  to  emphasize  that  the 
Russian  Federation  is  responsible  for  the  aggression 
against  my  country,  and  that  is  the  root  cause  of  the 
situation in Ukraine.
Mr.  Alarsan  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): A number of statements  delivered to present the 
positions of countries on the report of the International 
Criminal Court have addressed to the situation in my 
country. They demanded, in a surprising manner, that 
international  justice  be  brought  to  Syria  and  that  the 
Syrian issue be referred to the International Criminal 
Court.  Regrettably,  most  of  statements  in  which  such 
a  demand  has  been  made  have  been  selective  and 
politicized. They spoke in conformity with the positions 
of the countries that delivered them with regard to the 
ignominious  terrorist  war  being  waged  against  my 
country Syria.
We  would  have  liked  to  have  heard  the  voices  of 
those  delegations  in  other  international  forums  and 
platforms  of  the  United  Nations  calling  for  the  fight 
against terrorism in my country, Syria, before coming 
to this meeting to demand that so-called international 
justice  be  brought    to  my  country.  Some  statements 
today have ignored the fact that many States criticize 
the fact that the Court’s mandate is limited to  certain 
16-35451
21/22
A/71/PV.38 
31/10/2016
States  and  not  others,  and  to  certain  cases,  and  not 
others. 
These  statements  even  ignore  the  reasons  that 
pushed  some  States  to  withdraw  from  the  Court, 
including the shortcomings in the Court’s work, its weak 
performance  and  its  weak  mandate  as  a  result  of  the 
politicization of its works, and because it has become, 
like many international bodies and organizations, a tool 
in the hands of some super-Powers that use the United 
Nations and its agencies, bodies and other international 
entities to serve their own political plans. 
If that is not so, who in this Assembly can convince 
us  that  there  are  States  that  signed  the  Rome  Statute 
with the right hand, and with the left an agreement to 
grant  immunity  to  soldiers  of  certain  countries  or  a 
certain country from the mandate of the International 
Criminal  Court?  Everyone  knows  to  whom  we  are 
referring  when  we  talk  about  bilateral  conventions 
signed    by  some  States  parties  to  a  specific  treaty  in 
order to grant immunity to that State’s soldiers from the 
mandate of the Rome Statutes.
I  am  not  here  to  defend  a  particular  position,  but 
the  responsible  attitudes  of  the  Russian  Federation, 
China  and  other  States  in  the  Security  Council  have 
ensured that Syria has not as yet ended up facing the 
same bleak fate of countries like Yemen and Iraq. Who 
can convince us that some whose brave voices we heard 
today in this Assembly talking about alleged war  crimes 
in Syria, but whose voices fall silent when the so-called 
international  coalition  forces  in  Syria  commit  crimes 
that  are  actually  war  crimes  against  the  Syrian  Arab 
Army  fighting  Da’esh  terrorism  and  against  Syrian 
civilians who are bombarded and killed by warplanes 
of  the  international  coalition  —  or  what  is  wrongly 
called an international coalition against terrorism?
Ms.  Agladze  (Georgia):  For  the  record,  I  would 
like  to  state  one  more  time  that  we  have  heard  an 
account from the Russian Federation that is once again 
designed to mislead the international community about 
its ongoing aggression against sovereign neighbouring 
States,  while  Georgia,  in  sharp  contrast,  referred  in 
its  statement  only  to  citations  and  conclusions  from 
the  Pre-Trial  Chamber  decision  of  27  January.  As  we 
said, we would like to reiterate that we are committed 
to cooperating with the Court in order to uncover the 
truth and bring justice to the victims.
The  Acting  President 
in  French): 
The  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its 
consideration of agenda item 72.
The meeting rose at 5.25 p.m.
(spoke 
22/22 
16-35451
