United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
20th plenary meeting
Saturday, 24 September 2016, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.20
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 9.00 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
Address by Mr. Rui Maria de Araújo, Prime 
Minister of the Democratic Republic of Timor-
Leste
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Democratic 
Republic of Timor-Leste.
Mr.  Rui  Maria  de  Araújo,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Rui  Maria  de  Araújo,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Timor-Leste, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Araújo  (Timor-Leste)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 
interpretation provided by the delegation): I would like 
to  begin  by  congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your  election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
first session, and by wishing you the greatest success in 
discharging your new duties. It is with great satisfaction 
that  Timor-Leste,  a  half-island  nation  in  the  Pacific, 
welcomes a representative from another Pacific island 
to preside over the General Assembly. I am certain that 
you, Sir, are well aware of the challenges that we face 
with  regard  to  climate  change  and  the  management 
of our seas and marine resources. I would also like to 
congratulate  the  outgoing  President,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  for  all  of  his  work  and  his 
unparalleled efforts to revitalize the General Assembly 
by  increasing  its  effectiveness  and  efficiency  and  by 
strengthening  its  role  as  it  carries  out  the  duties  set 
forth in the Charter of the United Nations, as well as his 
commitment  to  a  transparent  selection  process  of  the 
next Secretary-General.
In the light of the fact that this is his last general 
debate, I would also like to express, on behalf of Timor-
Leste,  our  deepest  appreciation  to  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for the support Timor-Leste has received 
during his 10 years in office. His legacy has established 
the  foundations  for  a  reform  of  the  bureaucracy  and 
peacekeeping operations, and he has driven efforts to 
place  human  rights,  climate  change  and  refugees  and 
migrants at the forefront of the Organization’s agenda. 
As a symbol of the ideals of the United Nations, Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon has worked to make the world safer for women 
and  young  people,  promoted  sustainable  development 
actively and fortified the role of prevention.
Based  on  our  accumulated  experience  and  the 
recommendations included in reports on peacekeeping 
operations,  on  the  peacebuilding  architecture  and  on 
the  implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution 
1325  (2000),  on  women  and  peace  and  security, 
this  is  an  opportune  moment  for  change.  Promoting 
intergovernmental  coherence  and  strengthening  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and 
the  partnerships 
needed  for  its  maintenance  are  recommendations  that 
will improve the United Nations system. Our efforts to 
respond  to  the  challenges  facing  our  nations  and  our 
peoples need to be more effective.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29811 (E)
*1629811*
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
We  continue  to  be  confronted  with  situations  of 
inequality  and  conflict  that  threaten  our  collective 
stability.  We  all  know  —  and  Timor-Leste  has  first-
hand  experience  in  the  matter  —    that  the  United 
Nations is essential to ensuring the security of peoples 
and  countries  throughout  the  world.  We  therefore 
reiterate our belief in the principles of the Charter of the 
United Nations and in a multilateral and international 
system, as we are aware of the fact that the world has 
a continuing need to maintain international peace and 
security, establish friendly relations among countries, 
work in cooperation to find solutions to global problems 
and foster respect for human rights.
Such  goals  can  be  achieved  only  if  countries 
actively seek solutions to the problems they face. Such 
a  belief  is  confirmed  by  the  results  that  Timor-Leste 
has achieved. Using the lessons that we have learned, 
we wish to contribute to the dreams and hopes of other 
countries. Through the Group of Seven Plus and based 
on  the  principles  of  the  New  Deal  for  Engagement  in 
Fragile  States,  we  are  sharing  our  experiences  and 
knowledge  with  a  group  of  20  fragile  States  affected 
by conflict.
Regional 
integration  generates  opportunities 
for  the  economic  development  and  well-being  of  a 
population and also contributes to peace and stability in 
countries and regions. For that reason, we aspire to join 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, so that we 
can have an opportunity to fulfil both the dreams of our 
people and our responsibility to form an integral part of 
civilization. It is that same principle that drove Timor-
Leste, both as a member and during its presidency of 
the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries,  to 
propose  the  concept  of  economic  potential  within  the 
transregional  constellation,  which  includes  Europe, 
Africa,  the  Americas  and  Asia,  for  debate  among  its 
member States.
To that end, and in order to promote development 
and the resulting improvement in the living conditions 
of its people, we appeal to the United States of America 
to  urgently  remove  its  trade,  financial,  and  economic 
embargoes against the Republic of Cuba.
We are well aware that peace and development are 
intrinsically  linked,  which  is  a  concept  that  we  were 
determined to include in Goal 16 of the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  which  was  adopted  one 
year ago. There must be no doubt of the fact that without 
peace  and  stability,  we  cannot  envisage  development, 
and vice versa. The new Goals are for all countries, so 
that all may benefit from sustainable development. 
Last  year,  in  addition  to  being  one  of  the  first 
countries in the world to subscribe to the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs),  Timor-Leste  joined  a 
group of eight countries that wish to serve as models 
for the implementation of the Agenda by pooling best 
practices  and  experience.Over  the  past  year,  we  have 
established an interministerial working group that, in 
collaboration  with  civil-society  organizations  and  our 
development partners, has mapped indicators for the 17 
Goals  to  transform  our  world  and  selected  20  targets 
that will enable us to monitor their implementation on 
the basis of quantitative results. 
We  have  endeavoured  to  raise  our  partners’ 
awareness of the importance of harmonizing our agendas 
and  of  the  need  for  financial  aid  in  order  to  achieve 
results. We are also planning a high-level international 
conference in March 2017 to discuss ways to advance 
the  2030  Agenda  under  very  difficult  circumstances. 
We have improved our commitment to show our young 
people,  the  future  generation,  how  important  their 
role is in achieving those Goals, to which we all must 
contribute and from which we will all benefit. Such an 
exercise is not easy, yet our Government has attempted 
to be mindful of the Goals in its budget and in activity-
planning.
We have also developed additional plans and have 
included  the  SDGs  in  the  review  of  Timor-Leste’s 
strategic  development  plan  for  the  period  2011-2030. 
We want the plan’s impact on our population to be real 
and to benefit every citizen,   whether old or young, from 
the city or the remotest village, in the short, medium, 
and long term.  Our experience has already shown that 
we  can  achieve  an  impact,  for  example  in  the  health 
sector. Health is our most precious asset, and we want 
to  offer  quality  health  care  that  benefits  and  impacts 
our population.
It  gives  me  great  satisfaction  to  share  with  the 
Assembly the fact that Timor-Leste —  according to a 
study of 188 countries published in the 21 September 
issue of the British medical journal The Lancet —- is 
the country that has attained the most progress towards 
achieving the health-related Millennium Development 
Goals since 2000, as a result of the country’s peaceful 
and stable environment and its efforts to broaden access 
to  health  care.  We  have  also  joined  the  antibiotic-
resistance  campaign.  Concerted  action  among  our 
2/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
countries  will  help  to  reduce  the  number  of  cases  of 
resistance  and  increase  the  number  of  lives  saved, 
both  human  and  animal,  thanks  to  the  appropriate 
administration of medications.
The  world  must  place  fellow  human  beings’ 
physical  and  moral  well-being  and  human  dignity 
above  all  other  interests.  The  situation  of  refugees 
and  migrants  remains  unresolved  and  deserves  our 
focused  attention  and  support.  There  is  a  continuing 
need for a joint solution to end that situation affecting 
thousands of people, including children. We still need 
to  establish  frank  political  dialogue  and  international 
partnerships  to  ensure  respect  for  human  rights  and 
enable humanitarian assistance.
Other  major  scourges  persist  in  afflicting  the 
world. The conflicts in Syria, South Sudan and Yemen, 
among  others,  are  far  from  being  resolved.  We  hope 
that the recent ceasefire in Syria may be a step on the 
path to peace and that conditions may be created for the 
delivery of humanitarian assistance to those who most 
depend on it for their survival. 
We  also  urgently  need  to  find  a  solution  together 
that  would  ensure  the  right  to  self-determination  for 
the Saharawi people, as well as a just solution for the 
legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people, which 
must be respected.
As a country that has experienced conflict, Timor-
Leste knows all too well the high price of war and how 
we must do everything to avoid it, through preventive 
diplomacy  and  by  strengthening  the  institutions  of 
the  State.  In  addition  to  contributing  to  the  Group  of 
Seven  Plus,  we  are  willing,  as  we  have  done  in  the 
past, to be among those who contribute contingents to 
peacekeeping operations and thereby demonstrate our 
gratitude to the international community. Timor-Leste’s 
past and present can serve as an example and a source 
of  hope;  after  it  emerged  from  conflict,  Timor-Leste 
became  a  peaceful  country  that  now  enjoys  security 
and  stability  and  whose  people  can  benefit  from  the 
dividends of peace.
to 
threaten  nations.  Acts  of 
Even  when  countries  emerge 
from  conflict 
situations,  there  may  remain  issues  of  security  that 
continue 
terrorism, 
organized crime and threats to peace and stability have 
been constant and rather worrisome. The fight against 
terrorism and all those drivers of instability in the world 
and our societies require a commitment from all of us 
to work together towards a lasting solution.
By ratifying the relevant conventions, Timor-Leste 
has strengthened its commitment to contributing to the 
fight against terrorism and organized crime related to 
the financing of those activities. Money-laundering and 
illicit financial flows linked to terrorism are intimately 
connected with organized crime, and we are aware of 
the  importance  of  simultaneously  fighting  piracy  and 
the trafficking in drugs, persons and arms.
Such  crimes  are  sometimes  committed  at  sea  or 
through  maritime  activities.  In  order  to  combat  them 
and  safeguard  our  economic  potential,  we  must  also 
protect our borders and ensure maritime security. We 
are  a  maritime  nation,  and  for  us  the  sea  is  highly 
and  strategically  important.  To  explore  the  potential 
that  living  and  non-living  maritime  resources  offer 
is  to  give  ourselves  the  opportunity  to  diversify  our 
economy through fishing activities, the development of 
tourism  and  the  development  of  non-living  resources. 
That  requires  sustainable  development,  which 
is 
doubly  beneficial,  not  just  for  humankind  but  also 
for  the  environment.  We  appreciate  the  efforts  of 
Fiji  and  Sweden  in  organizing  the  high-level  United 
Nations Conference to Support the Implementation of 
Sustainable Development Goal 14 on oceans, to be held 
in New York in June 2017.
All  countries  across  the  globe  must  take  urgent 
action to combat climate change and its impacts. Island 
nations  such  as  Timor-Leste  are  truly  affected  by  the 
challenges  brought  about  by  climate  change.  Given 
our  commitment  to  combat  global  warming  and  not 
to  compromise  biodiversity  and  marine  ecosystems, 
in  April  we  signed  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change,  which  is  currently  in  the  process  of  being 
ratified in our National Parliament.
In  addition  to  that  global  concern,  Timor-Leste 
also faces the challenge of establishing sovereign rights 
over  our  surrounding  seas  through  the  delineation  of 
our maritime borders. Even 14 years after Timor-Leste 
became  the  one  hundred  and  ninety-first  Member 
of  the  United  Nations,  we  still  do  not  have  agreed 
and  defined  maritime  borders  with  our  two  maritime 
neighbours, Indonesia and Australia. The delineation of 
our maritime borders will ensure our sovereign rights 
and  give  us  certainty  with  respect  to  what  belongs  to 
us,  thereby  ensuring  our  economic  stability,  even  our 
self-sufficiency, and a better future for our people and 
our nation.
16-29811
3/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
We  are  staunch  advocates  of  dialogue  and  the 
peaceful  resolution  of  disputes.  We  believe  in  the 
multilateral system and international law, in which all 
States are equal before the law, regardless of their size 
or  wealth.  On  the  basis  of  those  principles  ensuring 
equality  among  nations    we  began  discussions  with  a 
view to delimiting our maritime borders with Indonesia 
under international law. We hope to do the same with 
Australia  in  a  true  spirit  of  openness,  transparency 
and friendship.
For  that  reason,  in  April  Timor-Leste  began  a 
process  of  compulsory  conciliation,  a  mechanism  to 
resolve disputes under the United Nations Convention 
on the Law of the Sea. The process, which is being used 
for the first time, was specifically conceived for cases 
such as Timor-Leste’s, where there is a dispute regarding 
maritime  borders  with  a  neighbour  that  withdrew 
from  binding  dispute  resolution  procedures  under 
international law. The first meeting of the compulsory 
Conciliation Commission was held on 29 August, and 
we are confident that the panel of independent experts, 
after reviewing each country’s position, will contribute 
to  reaching  an  amicable  solution.  We  are  certain  that 
Australia,  an  important  country  in  our  region,  will 
participate  and  contribute  in  a  positive  manner  to 
finding a just solution acceptable to both parties.
In 2015, Timor-Leste undertook a commitment to 
assiduously  work  with  all  nations  so  that  together  we 
can  implement  a  transformational  agenda  designed  to 
shift the world onto a sustainable and resilient path. The 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  also  include  targets, 
and  we  must  ensure  the  contribution  of  all  nations  to 
their implementation. In that regard, we can never stress 
enough the need to find solutions to the challenges that 
humankind  faces,  solutions  that  we  must  pursue  in  a 
spirit of solidarity, as well as the importance of acting 
in a coordinated fashion,
In conclusion, I reiterate Timor-Leste’s belief in the 
multilateral system and in advocating for fundamental 
values such as peace and human rights. We would also 
like  to  renew  our  commitment  to  the  preservation  of 
democracy,  the  rule  of  law,  sustainable  development, 
respect for international law and the buildingof  a better 
future for all peoples and nations, now and in the future.
On  behalf  of  Timor-Leste,  I  truly  wish  that  your 
term  of  office,  Mr.  President,  will  be  crowned  by 
success.  Failure  is  not  an  option,  because  humankind 
is in urgent need of change to ensure the preservation 
of its existence.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Democratic 
Republic  of  Timor-Leste  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Rui  Maria  de  Araújo,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, was escorted 
from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Allen Michael Chastanet, 
Prime Minister of Saint Lucia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of Saint Lucia.
Mr.  Allen  Michael  Chastanet,  Prime  Minister  of 
Saint Lucia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Allen  Michael 
Chastanet, Prime Minister of Saint Lucia, and inviting 
him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Chastanet (Saint Lucia): It is with the greatest 
pleasure, Sir, that I welcome you to the presidency of 
the General Assembly at its seventy-first session. We in 
Saint Lucia are particularly pleased that the presidency 
has  passed  to  a  representative  of  a  fellow  small 
island  developing  State.  I  also  take  this  opportunity 
to  congratulate,  through  you,  Mr.  President,  the 
Government and the people of Fiji on their gold-medal 
victory  in  the  rugby  sevens  competition  at  the  2016 
Olympic Games. I sincerely hope that our efforts during 
the early decades of the twenty-first century will help 
create a new world similar to the level playing field that 
enables  athletes  from  small  island  States  like  ours  to 
compete successfully with those from the super-Powers 
of the world.
On a personal note, it is an honour to address the 
Assembly as the eighth Prime Minister of Saint Lucia. 
I  come  before  it  humbled  by  the  responsibility  that 
the  people  of  Saint  Lucia  have  placed  upon  me  and 
my  Administration.  We  are  mindful  of  the  enormous 
challenges  of  our  moment  in  history,  and  we  are 
determined to act boldly and collectively on behalf of 
justice and prosperity — at home and abroad. At home 
we  have  given  our  people  a  commitment  to  build  a 
prosperous and progressive Saint Lucia for the benefit 
of all citizens. We are fully aware that we can succeed 
4/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
in that mission only with the support of those nations 
with which we interact.
I  have  assumed  office  at  a  time  when  many 
around  the  world,  like  many  in  my  own  country,  are 
discontented with the status quo. Theirs is a discontent 
with the ideologies, policies, institutions, and patterns 
of behaviour that were established in a time long past to 
deal with circumstances long gone. The old habits and 
old arguments are irrelevant and harmful to the finding 
solutions to the challenges faced by the people today. As 
a result, there is considerable frustration fuelling acts 
of  terror  throughout  the  world,  which  have  escalated 
into major conflicts.
We  recognize  that  it  is  through  dialogue  and 
mutual  respect  that  we  can  begin  to  address  long-
standing conflicts. We therefore welcome the warming 
of relations between two of our neighbours and call on 
the  United  States  to  take  the  next  step  by  lifting  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba. A strong Cuban economy would strengthen the 
region in general.
There  is  no  doubt  whatsoever  that  we  face  many 
challenges  within  our  international  community.  But 
the majority of our challenges are, at their most basic, 
symptomatic  of  a  single  underlying  issue:  the  denial 
of  access  to  basic  human  rights,  including  education, 
health  care,  justice  and  security.  We  must  accept  that 
those pillars are fundamental human rights and, as such, 
are  the  very  foundation  upon  which  our  nations  must 
grow. Our failure to provide and ensure those rights to 
our  citizens  in  crucial  areas  of  life  breeds  dangerous 
challenges that mushroom beyond national and regional 
borders and impact us all in the global community.
We  leaders  gather  in  this  great  Hall  every  year 
to  engage  in  the  general  debate  and  deliberate  on  the 
challenges and successes of the international order. Yet 
the  very  format  of  the  debate  is  problematical,  given 
that  while  many  speak,  few  stay  around  to  listen,  far 
less respond. Is it any wonder, then, how and why this 
entity  is  so  negatively  perceived  by  the  persons  who 
elected us to serve? As a small island State and Member 
of this body, our voice is meant to be equal, but long 
experience  and  realpolitik  have  proven  the  contrary. 
Instead  of  being  invited  to  participate  in  finding  a 
cure for the cause of our challenges, we are forced to 
accept remedies proposed by others to the symptoms of 
the maladies.
Given  our  small  size  and  limited  choices  for 
economic  expansion,  small  island  States  like  my 
own  have  looked  to  the  more  advanced  economies 
for  innovative  means  of  economic  development.  We 
have  adopted  programmes  created  by  those  States, 
such  as  the  citizenship-by-investment  programmes, 
financial  services  and  trusts.  Yet  we  find  ourselves 
being penalized and criticized by the very architects of 
such programmes, as they brand us as tax havens and 
compromise our ability to grow our economies. We are 
therefore left to dance between the raindrops.
A  painful  example  of  such  exclusion  is  the 
inescapable  fact  that,  while  we  continue  to  feel  the 
negative effects of the 2008-2009 global financial and 
economic  crisis,  we  are  not  involved  in  the  solutions 
to the problems. As we know, the Group of 20 (G-20) 
has  designated  itself  as  the  forum  for  our  collective 
international  economic  cooperation.  However,  Saint 
Lucia, like the majority of the States Members of the 
United Nations, is not a member of the G-20, and we 
were not consulted on its appointment as the arbiters of 
our economic fate.
The  G-20  also  has  a  serious  legitimacy  problem. 
Aside from being unofficial and non-inclusive, many of 
the countries at the table represent the champions of the 
existing  economic  and  financial  systems  and  policies 
that  led  the  world  into  the  crisis  in  the  first  place. 
The  crisis  has  produced  increased  poverty,  suffering 
and  social  and  political  upheaval  in  our  States.  Its 
disproportionate impact on the poor has only widened 
the gap between developing and developed countries.
The  current  combination  of  the  real  impacts  of 
global warming, the financial crisis and stagnant global 
economies  has  left  many  small  island  middle-income 
countries  in  a  state  of  high  debt  and  unemployment. 
And  the  new  threat  of  de-risking  will  cause  further 
deterioration in our economies.
While  we  fully  support  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate  Change  and  its  ambition  to  deal  with  global 
warming,  we  are  patiently  waiting  for  its  financing 
to  be  agreed.  In  the  light  of  that,  we  wholeheartedly 
endorse the call by the Prime Minister of Jamaica for 
an  initiative  to  assist  highly  indebted  middle-income 
countries,  underpinned  by  the  principle  that  their 
structural  vulnerabilities 
eliminated 
by diversification.
cannot  be 
Every  single  Member  State  should  be  honest  in 
shouldering its responsibilities. Nothing is easier than 
16-29811
5/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
blaming others for our troubles and absolving ourselves 
of responsibility for our choices and our actions. True 
leadership  in  this  new  world  order  demands  much 
more. We must bring ourselves in tune with the call of 
the times.
We  say  that  our  destinies  are  interlinked,  as  we 
have  all  adopted  a  universal  approach  to  sustainable 
development  through  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, but we still think in terms of a zero-sum game. 
The  truth  is  that  the  world  has  been  endowed  with 
abundant natural resources, which, if put to proper use, 
could wipe out poverty throughout the world. There is 
therefore  no  need  to  continue  to  create  a  world  order 
that elevates one nation or group of people over another.
In  this  Hall  we  come  from  many  places,  but  we 
share  a  common  future.  No  longer  do  we  have  the 
luxury  of  indulging  our  differences  to  the  neglect  of 
the work that we must do together. The magnitude of 
our challenges has yet to be met by the measure of our 
actions. The United Nations was founded on the belief 
that the nations of the world should solve their problems 
together. It was rooted in the hard lessons of war and in 
the  wisdom  that  nations  could  advance  their  interests 
by acting together instead of holding steadfast to their 
insular  policies.  The  time  has  come  for  the  world  to 
move in a new direction. The technological revolution 
of  the  twenty-first  century  is  creating  a  new  global 
village.  We  must  embrace  a  new  era  of  engagement 
based on common needs, innovative ideas and mutual 
respect. And that work must begin now.
We  must  decide  whether  the  United  Nations  can 
continue to be a place where we continue our outdated 
grievances  or  a  place  we  begin  to  forge  common 
ground. We must decide to put less focus on what drives 
us apart and more emphasis on what brings us together. 
We must decide to give renewed meaning to the promise 
embedded in the name given to this institution, namely, 
the  United  Nations.  Under  my  watch,  Saint  Lucia 
stands  ready  to  collaborate  more  meaningfully  with 
its neighbours in the emerging global village. We must 
adopt  policies  and  programmes  that  put  citizens  and 
their basic human needs first. We must not accept easy 
fixes  nor  any  solution  that  undermines  the  ability  of 
any State to deliver on its promise to provide education, 
health care, justice and security to all its citizens.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Saint Lucia for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Allen  Michael  Chastanet,  Prime  Minister  of 
Saint Lucia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Gaston Alphonso Browne, 
Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda.
Mr.  Gaston  Alphonso  Browne,  Prime  Minister  of 
Antigua and Barbuda, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Gaston  Alphonso  Browne,  Prime 
Minister of Antigua and Barbuda, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly.
Mr.  Browne  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  On  behalf 
of my Government and my people, I congratulate you, 
Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-first session.
This  will  be  the  last  General  Assembly  at  which 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  will  serve  the 
peoples  of  the  world  as  Secretary-General.  I  wish  to 
now  place  on  record  my  country’s  great  appreciation 
of  his  stewardship  of  our  affairs.  The  task  of  the 
Secretary-General  is  not  easy.  Occupied  with  trying 
to resolve conflicts around the world, stop bloodshed, 
mediate  diverse  positions  between  Governments, 
address hunger and malnutrition, uphold human rights, 
including the rights of women, refugees and vulnerable 
communities, work tirelessly to secure peace and ensure 
development in its widest meaning. All of that is deeply 
challenging  and  enormously  worrisome.  Managing  it 
all  involves  exhausting  travel,  the  neglect  of  family 
responsibilities,  and  wearisome  nights  without  sleep. 
Therefore, on behalf of my people, I wish to record our 
deep  appreciation  for  all  of  the  Secretary-General’s 
unstinting efforts.
I thank him particularly for the 10 years of diligence 
that he has devoted to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development,  which  our  Governments  adopted  in 
September  2015.  The  17  Sustainable  Development 
Goals to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice and 
tackle climate change by 2030 are of vital interest to the 
well-being of small countries, such as mine. Of course, 
we  are  disappointed  that  many  of  the  Goals  remain 
aspirational  and  lack  a  legally  binding  commitment 
to the funding that is crucial for their implementation. 
But we are realistic enough not to reject the good just 
because we did not get the perfect. We will continue to 
6/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
advocate for fairness and equity in the fulfilment of the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
My small island State is also grateful to Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  conscientiousness  in 
promoting  an  agreement  on  climate  change,  which 
our  nations  collectively  signed  in  Paris  last  year.  My 
Government  was  pleased  to  deposit  its  instrument 
of  ratification  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  earlier  this  week  at  here  at  Headquarters.  I 
urge the countries that have not yet signed or ratified 
the Agreement to do so without delay. Time is not on 
our side.
I remind the representatives of all nations gathered 
in this Hall that the present pledges to reduce emissions 
are still insufficient to limit global temperature rise to 
well below 2° Celsius and to build climate resilience. At 
a rise of 1.5° Celsius, many of our countries — or parts 
of  them  —  will  still  be  washed  away.  Temperatures 
continue to rise, as the bell is tolling.
The bell may be tolling for small islands, but in the 
words of the poet John Donne, “it also tolls for thee”. 
The  ravages  of  climate  change  will  not  end  with  the 
erosion of small island States, nor will its consequences 
disappear  with  the  last  surging  tide.  Its  refugees,  its 
displaced people and the misery of its effects will wash 
up  on  the  shores  of  those  who  dismiss  or  neglect  the 
issue today.
Our small countries endure the problems caused by 
climate change not because we created it, but because 
we are the victims of the polluting profligacy of others.
But  we  are  not  content  to  simply  wring  our  hands  in 
anguish or throw up our arms in despair. We are keen 
to help provide solutions. That is why my Government 
has repeatedly proposed debt swaps for climate-change 
adaptation  and  mitigation.  Many  of  our  small  island 
States are burdened by high debt because we are denied 
access  to  concessionary  financing  and  are  forced 
to  borrow  at  high  commercial  rates  to  rebuild  after 
disasters and to mitigate against them. High debt is not 
only a drag on our economic growth; it constrains our 
ability to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. 
We are caught in a very vicious cycle.
We  have  proposed  that  we  be  provided  with  soft 
loans to stop further high debt accumulation while we 
build  resilience  to  global  warming  and  sea-level  rise. 
However, for us to qualify for soft loans, the international 
financial  institutions  and  donor  Governments  must 
stop using per capita income as a criterion. So far, our 
pleas  have  fallen  on  deaf  ears.  Beyond  the  facade  of 
high per capita income is our increasing poverty, high 
levels of household and individual vulnerability, acute 
issues  in  health  and  education  and  worrying  rates  of 
unemployment,  especially  among  youth.  High  per 
capita  income  distorts  the  reality  that,  because  of  the 
openness of our small economies and our dependence 
on  foreign  investment,  a  minority  of  the  population 
earns  the  largest  percentage  of  income,  leaving  the 
majority at subsistence level and below.
Those  facts  are  known  to  international  financial 
institutions  and  those  who  govern  them,  yet  they  are 
ignored.  The  more  appropriate  criteria  for  allowing 
access to concessionary financing should be our very 
well-known vulnerability to shocks that are generated 
from  outside  our  shores  and  over  which  we  have  no 
control.  The  cost  to  institutions,  such  as  the  World 
Bank,  of  refining  their  criteria  would  not  be  very 
high,  but  such  access  would  represent  a  significant 
measure  enabling  our  small  countries  to  improve  our 
economic performance.I have to admit a deep sense of 
frustration  and  disappointment  that,  year  after  year, 
other Heads of Government of small States and I have 
come  to  the  Assembly  and  explained  the  challenges 
that  confront  us,  but  to  no  avail.  We  remain  trapped 
in  the  reality  of  a  narrow  tax  base,  high  debt,  large 
trade deficits, small underdeveloped domestic financial 
markets,  small  private  sectors  and  fragile  banking 
systems.  I  remind  the  Assembly  of  Albert  Einstein’s 
observation: 
“In  matters  of  truth  and  justice,  there  is  no 
difference  between  large  and  small  problems,  for 
issues  concerning  the  treatment  of  people  are  all 
the same.”
The truth of the situation facing small States is obvious 
to all; so too should be the need for justice. My country, 
having  resumed  negotiations  with  the  Government 
of  the  United  States  on  the  outstanding  World  Trade 
Organization  matter, 
to  a  speedy 
resolution  as  we  continue  to  find  innovative  ways  to 
build our country.
looks  forward 
In  terms  of  the  grave  challenges  to  the  economic 
viability facing my country and the Caribbean region, 
I  can  now  point  to  an  urgent  and  existential  threat  of 
considerable  relevance  to  our  survival.  The  latest 
challenge  that  our  countries  face  is  the  decision  by 
global  banks  to  discontinue  correspondent  banking 
the 
relations  with  our  financial 
institutions.  In 
16-29811
7/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
international  campaign  against  money 
laundering 
and  terrorist  financing,  very  strict  penalties  have 
been imposed on banks by regulatory bodies in North 
America  and  Europe  for  any  infringement  of  the 
stringent regulations.
financial 
in 
In  that  environment,  where  even  the  slightest 
infraction  could  expose  a  bank  to  a  fine  of  hundreds 
of  millions  of  dollars,  many  banks  have  chosen  to 
withdraw  essential  correspondent  banking  relations 
from 
the  Caribbean, 
Central  America  and  Africa.  They  call  that  process 
“de-risking”.  I  call  it  economic  destruction.  It  is  now 
prevalent  in  the  Caribbean,  but  it  also  exists  in  parts 
of  Africa  and  Central  America.  It  will  spread,  with 
global  consequences,  unless  it  is  curbed  through 
collective action.
institutions 
All  those  countries,  including  mine,  are  now 
at  the  point  of  losing  vital  correspondent  banking 
relationships. The consequences would be calamitous. 
We would be severed from the world’s trading system, 
unable  to  pay  for  basic  goods  and  services  that  we 
purchase or to receive payments for goods and services 
that  we  sell  to  other  countries.  Remittances  from 
our  diaspora  would  be  cut  off,  causing  more  of  the 
population to depend on social welfare at a time when 
our economies are already under great stress.
In other words, a growing cancer is eating away at 
development — a cancer that is threatening the stability 
of our region and denying us the right to participate in 
the international economy. But that is not all. Since the 
consequence  of  being  cut  off  from  the  world  trading 
system  would  be  economic  collapse,  not  only  would 
poverty and crime dramatically increase, so too would 
the very global scourges that every nation fears — an 
increase in refugees and human trafficking.
The  consequences  would  not  be  limited  to  our 
countries.  Worse  yet,  financial  transactions  that  are 
now  regulated  and  monitored  by  law  enforcement 
agencies would be forced underground, creating huge 
opportunities  for  money  laundering  and  terrorism 
financing. That would undermine the global, multilateral 
cooperation  that  is  required  to  fight  those  scourges. 
And it is important to be aware of the fact that, in all 
the  money  laundering  and  terrorism  financing  cases 
that have been prosecuted in the world, not one of them 
involved a Caribbean financial institution. 
our countries. The threat that we face in the Caribbean 
is real; the danger is imminent. But, make no mistake, 
no country will be immune from its consequences if it 
is left unchecked.
I  am  grateful  to  the  Managing  Director  of  the 
International  Monetary  Fund,  Ms.  Christine  Lagarde, 
for her timely and important statement made on 18 July 
at the New York Federal Reserve, in which she said,
“I  am  concerned  that  not  all  is  well  in  this 
world  of  small  countries  with  small  financial 
systems.  In  fact,  there  is  a  risk  that  they  become 
more marginalized.”
She went on to say that
“all  actors  have  a  part  to  play:  countries  need  to 
upgrade  their  regulatory  frameworks;  regulators 
in key financial centres need to clarify regulatory 
expectations and ensure consistent application over 
time;  and  global  banks  need  to  avoid  knee-jerk 
reactions  and  find  sensible  ways  to  reduce  their 
costs. There is a lot at stake. For both the big and 
the small. For all of us.”
Ms.  Lagarde  could  not  be  more  right,  and  her 
summons to the international community should be a 
clarion call to all.
In  the  case  of  the  Caribbean,  my  colleagues  the 
Heads  of  Government  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
mandated  me  to  convene  a  high-level  conference  on 
that  matter  to  address  it  in  a  holistic  fashion.    It  will 
be  held  in  Antigua  on  27  and  28  October,  and  I  have 
already  issued  invitations  to  key  global  stakeholders.. 
Our  objective  at  that  conference  will  be  to  work 
collectively  to  end  that  huge  threat  to  the  well-being 
of  our  region.  We  are  acting  responsibly,  and  I  call 
on the General Assembly to recognize the substantial 
and  dangerous  nature  of  this  issue,  and  to  join  us  in 
addressing it constructively.
Our nations operate in the United Nations system 
in  the  context  of  some  kind  of  global  order.  It  is  a 
global order that is supposed to be underpinned by the 
Charter of the United Nations. Reference is often made 
to  the  first  goal  cited  in  the  Preamble  to  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  which  is  “to  save  succeeding 
generations  from  the  scourge  of  war,  which  twice  in 
our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind”.
De-risking is a substantial matter; its far-reaching 
consequences  could  create  fundamental  problems  for 
It  is  of  course  right  that  we  should  do  so.  For 
even though that principle is enshrined in the Charter 
8/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
and  is  legally  binding  on  all  Member  States,  conflict 
and  carnage  continue  in  several  parts  of  the  world, 
particularly  the  Middle  East.  And,  as  the  Secretary-
General  lamented  in  his  presentation  of  his  report  on 
the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/71/1)  to  this  session 
of the General Assembly, “Powerful patrons who keep 
feeding  the  war  machine  also  have  blood  on  their 
hands.” (see A/71/PV.8).
But,  at  least  in  recent  years,  wars  have  been  reduced 
and isolated. In that regard, the commitment of States 
to the Charter has made our world a safer place for the 
majority of our people.
However, it is the other three goals in the Preamble 
that our nations have yet to meet. And because of that 
failure, developing countries and small States such as 
mine  remain  marginalized,  outside  the  bounty  of  the 
world. I remind everyone of those three goals:
“To  reaffirm  faith  in  fundamental  human 
rights,  in  the  dignity  and  worth  of  the  human 
person, in the equal rights of men and women and 
of nations large and small, and
“To  establish  conditions  under  which  justice 
and respect for the obligations arising from treaties 
and  other  sources  of  international  law  can  be 
maintained, and
“To  promote  social  progress  and  better 
standards of life in larger freedom”.
The global order under which we live and conduct 
our  relations  pays  only  lip  service  to  those  principles 
and  ideals.  That  is  why  Guantánamo  Bay  in  Cuba  is 
still  occupied  by  the  United  States  and  the  United 
States embargo on that country continues, despite the 
wishes of the people and the Government of Cuba. That 
is why bodies such as the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development, a club for rich countries, 
Unilaterally make rules on financial matters, which they 
impose on other countries, which have no say. That is 
why powerful countries brand regions in the Caribbean 
and  Pacific  as  tax  havens,  with  all  the  negative  and 
harmful  consequences  that  such  branding  entails. 
That  is  why  the  Caribbean  region  can  be  arbitrarily 
and unfairly severed from vital correspondent banking 
relationships. That is why countries such as mine have 
no voice of our own and no vote in the decision-making 
councils of the international financial institutions that 
make  and  implement  the  rules  that  materially  affect 
our lives.
“Might  is  right”  continues  to  be  the  principle 
underpinning  the  mentality  of  the  powerful.  But 
our  world  cannot  be  free  from  poverty,  conflict, 
terror,  inequity  and  injustice  while  the  powerful  take 
advantage  of  the  weak.  In  the  words  of  the  Reverend 
Martin Luther King, Jr., “Injustice anywhere is a threat 
to justice everywhere.” It is time that the global order 
recognize that self-evident truth.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Gaston  Alphonso  Browne,  Prime  Minister 
of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Timothy Harris, Prime 
Minister of Saint Kitts and Nevis
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Mr. Timothy Harris, Prime Minister of Saint Kitts 
and Nevis, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Timothy  Harris,  Prime  Minister 
of Saint Kitts and Nevis, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly.
Mr. Harris (Saint Kitts and Nevis): On behalf of 
the Government and the people of our proud Federation 
of Saint Kitts and Nevis, Mr. President, I would like to 
congratulate you on your election to lead the General 
Assembly at its seventy-first session, and I thank you 
for the honour of addressing the Assembly.
We  know  that  under  your  tenure,  Mr.  President, 
we  will  focus  on  striving  for  the  key  development 
goals for 2030 — people, planet, prosperity, peace and 
partnership.  They  represent  broad  global  issues  that 
are of particular concern to the small island developing 
States  of  the  Caribbean  region.  Indeed,  many  of  the 
problems facing our world today are linked and should 
be addressed holistically and multilaterally.
Today in various corners of the world we see masses 
of  people  losing  faith  in  the  ability  of  established 
institutions  to  defend  their  interests  and  respond 
adequately to their needs. On an almost daily basis we 
witness an increase in acts of violence against innocent 
16-29811
9/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
people. We look on, seemingly helpless, as large groups 
of  people  feel  alienated  and  isolated  in  their  own 
countries,  with  some  of  them  forced  to  uproot  their 
families and risk their lives to escape armed conflict in 
search of security and better opportunities.
It is clear that the causes of many of those problems 
are  rooted  in  years  of  social  neglect  and  entrenched 
economic inequities. We cannot resolve them by simply 
dismissing people’s fears, stereotyping them or resorting 
to  isolationism,  xenophobia  and  protectionism.  Our 
response  must  be  to  develop  better  partnerships  and 
find  common  ground.  Our  global  challenges  demand 
that  we  build  bridges,  not  walls.  We  must  strengthen 
our  commitment  to  multilateralism  and  cooperation. 
We  must  empower  international  institutions,  civil 
society  and  the  private  sector  to  play  a  much  greater 
role.  The  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
provide a perfect platform and framework for achieving 
that in partnership.
Empowering  our  young  people 
is  critically 
important to the transformation of our world. There is a 
common view that significant intervention is required 
in order to nurture aspiration, vision, leadership and a 
sense of civic responsibility. By providing opportunities 
for  the  constructive  engagement  of  young  people  in 
critical  matters  that  directly  affect  them  and  society, 
we  can  transform  their  frustration  into  meaningful 
empowerment. We should tackle head-on the increased 
incidence  of  youth-on-youth  violence,  which 
is 
invariably  symptomatic  of  deeper  societal  issues.  We 
cannot  dismiss  young  people’s  evident  despair.  We 
have to adopt a multisectoral and integrated approach in 
order to find ways to make them see that violence is not 
the answer. In Saint Kitts and Nevis we have focused 
on job creation, skills enhancement, entrepreneurship, 
counselling  and  support  to  teenage  mothers  and  the 
provision of other targeted social services.
It is important to note that on 4 July 2011, in keeping 
with our commitment to working more collaboratively 
to halt the proliferation of small arms and light weapons, 
the  Caribbean  Governments  adopted  the  Declaration 
on  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  of  the  Caribbean 
Community (CARICOM) in my own country’s capital 
of  Basseterre.  Those  weapons  have  had  devastating 
effects on many young lives and families. Saint Kitts 
and Nevis has now signed and ratified the Arms Trade 
Treaty, but we are still in need of much support.
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  like  so  many  small  island 
developing States, remains inherently vulnerable, owing 
mainly to our small physical size, open economy, lack 
of economies of scale and, of course, small population. 
As we have seen time and again, a climate event that 
lasts only a few hours can wreak havoc on every single 
aspect of life on our islands. In the past we have asked 
that  the  international  community  address  the  issue 
of  creating  a  strategy  for  the  promotion  of  climate 
financing,  and  I  once  again  reiterate  that  call.  It  is 
meaningless to say that billions of dollars are available 
for climate financing if the mechanisms for accessing 
the  money  are  opaque,  prohibitive  and  extremely 
difficult  to  penetrate.  Again,  I  urge  common-sense 
cooperation and partnership.
We  are  being  further  marginalized  in  the  global 
financial  system.  Already  in  the  Caribbean,  as  of 
the  first  half  of  this  year,  some  16  banks  across  five 
countries have lost all or some of their correspondent 
banking relationships, putting the financial lifeline of 
those countries at great risk. In our economies, which 
depend  heavily  on  tourism  and  remittances  as  major 
factors in national development, such actions threaten 
to derail progress and undermine trade, direct foreign 
investment and the repatriation of business profits. 
Furthermore,  we  urge  the  Group  of  Seven,  the 
Group of 20 and the international financial institutions 
to re-evaluate the methodologies used to assess whether 
and  how  a  country  qualifies  for  concessional  support 
or  access  to  certain  types  of  international  funds. 
The  arbitrary  classification  of  certain  small  nations, 
like  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  —  or  Dominica,  for  that 
matter — as middle-income countries can never make 
sense  when  such  a  country  might  see  its  economy 
grow from 4 to 6 per cent in one year and then watch 
helplessly as nearly 100 per cent of its gross domestic 
product is wiped out in six hours of wind and rainfall 
from a tropical storm. Any new formula must include 
vulnerability and resilience indices.
As  the  Prime  Minister  in  the  CARICOM  quasi-
cabinet with lead responsibility for health and human 
development,  I  encourage  this  body  and  like-minded 
Governments  to  join  me  in  re-energizing  our  efforts 
to fight non-communicable diseases and antimicrobial 
resistance, as well as communicable diseases like HIV/
AIDS. That fight is consistent with international efforts 
to meet our SDG targets. It serves to promote human 
security,  improve  individual  choices  and  empower 
citizens. Saint Kitts and Nevis is grateful to the General 
10/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
Assembly for its continued advocacy, as well as to the 
Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  for 
its  support  to  the  Pan-Caribbean  Partnership  against 
HIV  and  AIDS,  which  has  been  declared  an  example 
of  international  best  practices.  We  are  also  proud  of 
the  strides  that  we  have  made  in  reducing  mother-to-
child infection at birth by 97 per cent, and of our efforts 
to  ensure  ongoing  and  more  cost-effective  access 
to  antiretroviral  drugs  and  treatment  and  to  reduce, 
through  education,  the  stigma  associated  with  the 
disease. But the battle is far from won. The Caribbean 
is still an area of very high prevalence.
It is essential to invest more in education in order 
to promote healthier lives and healthier food choices, as 
well as to help people make the right lifestyle choices, 
because several of the non-communicable diseases are 
preventable. In the long term, by implementing the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and the SDGs, we 
can reduce the enormous costs of treatments associated 
with non-communicable diseases, which in turn could 
contribute  significantly 
to  meaningful  economic 
development. It is worth the investment so that we can 
protect our most critical national asset — our people. In 
all our efforts, they matter most.
Many of the difficulties that I have outlined have 
been  made  less  burdensome  because  the  Government 
and  the  people  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  have  been 
fortunate enough to have benefited from some durable 
and meaningful partnerships, which have been integral 
to our efforts to build resilience, transform our country, 
modernize our economy, upgrade our workforce, educate 
our people and empower our citizenry. There have also 
been  outstanding  models  of  South-South  cooperation 
worthy  of  emulation.  For  example,  Cuba’s  support  to 
the developing world in education and training, health 
care, agriculture and heritage development dwarfs the 
assistance  of  many  economically  advanced  countries. 
Venezuela’s Bolivarian energy outreach through Petro 
Caribe is an important model. There must be a greater 
commitment to share prosperity.
Additionally, in the past three decades, the tangible 
support of the Government and the people of Taiwan has 
been remarkable. Taiwan has stood shoulder to shoulder 
with the Government and the people of Saint Kitts and 
Nevis and remains steadfast in its commitment to support 
our  determination  to  meet  our  people-empowerment 
agenda.  Their  help  and  solidarity  touch  almost  every 
facet  of  life  in  our  twin-island  federation.  Such 
advantages  and  benefits  should  not  be  limited  to  a 
few countries. I know that Taiwan is eager to share its 
progress  and  development  successes  with  the  rest  of 
the  world.  I  therefore  recommend  new  opportunities 
for Taiwan and its people to be warmly welcomed and 
integrated into the international fraternity of nations as 
a global player whose commitment to the principles of 
democracy, peace and people empowerment can touch 
many more lives.
The future of our planet and our citizens cannot be 
outsourced  to  any  one  country  or  group  of  countries. 
In today’s highly interdependent and integrated world, 
that future is our collective commons, demanding the 
full engagement of all countries and their citizens.
Lastly, I would like to sound a cautionary note. My 
Government, like most of the international community, 
believes that the recent nuclear tests conducted by the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  constitute  a 
threat  to  peace  and  security  on  the  Korean  peninsula 
and in the world in general. Such nuclear tests violate 
Security Council resolution 2270 (2016) and the well-
established regime relating to the non-proliferation of 
nuclear weapons. Saint Kitts and Nevis stands resolutely 
with those who seek to ensure a peaceful world free of 
the ravages of war and violence.
Mr. Mnatsakanyan (Armenia), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
Despite the many challenges we face, I am convinced 
that  we  can  achieve  our  individual  goals  by  working 
together  as  an  international  community  to  make  the 
right decisions and triumph over adversity. Now is the 
time for a bolder and grander vision of partnership. As 
the peoples of the world, we joined together to celebrate 
our  achievement  in  the  SDGs.  As  the  peoples  of  the 
world, we achieved a landmark climate deal at the Paris 
Conference  on  Climate  Change.  They  are  examples 
of  what  we  can  do  working  together  for  the  ultimate 
benefit of all. Let us now, therefore, resolve to achieve 
even greater success in the years leading up to 2030.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Saint 
Kitts and Nevis for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Timothy Harris, Prime Minister of Saint Kitts 
and Nevis, was escorted from the rostrum.
16-29811
11/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
Address by Mr. Barnabas Sibusiso Dlamini, 
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Swaziland
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Swaziland.
Mr.  Barnabas  Sibusiso  Dlamini,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Barnabas  Sibusiso 
Dlamini, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Swaziland, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Dlamini  (Swaziland):  I  bring  warm  and 
fraternal  greetings  from  His  Majesty  King  Mswati 
III, Head of State and iNgwenyama of the Kingdom of 
Eswatini, the Queen Mother Indlovukati and the entire 
Swazi  nation.  His  Majesty  would  have  loved  to  join 
everyone  for  this  eminent  occasion.  However,  owing 
to other pressing engagements, he has delegated me to 
represent him and deliver the national statement of the 
Kingdom  of  Eswatini.  Our  Kingdom  is  committed  to 
contributing to global issues that affect humankind in 
the universe.
Allow me to express our sincere congratulations to 
the President on his election as President of the General 
Assembly at its seventy-first session and to commend 
the  leadership  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 
outgoing  Secretary-General,  who  has  performed  a 
sterling job as leader of the Organization for the past 
10 years. We also congratulate the United Nations staff 
for  the  remarkable  work  that  they  do  in  many  parts 
of the world, in which they promote peace and create 
a  conducive  environment  for  humankind  to  live  in, 
sometimes under very difficult situations.
The  theme  of  this  session  —    “The  Sustainable 
Development  Goals:  a  universal  push  to  transform 
our world” — calls upon all of us to contribute to the 
development of our respective countries and continents. 
This  theme  is  indeed  a  cross-cutting  subject  that 
covers  every  aspect  of  life.  We  are  pleased  to  inform 
the  General  Assembly  that  the  Kingdom  has  done 
a  lot  to  mainstream  and  popularize  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  through  public-awareness 
campaigns,  education  and  training  at  all  levels.  The 
Kingdom of Eswatini has also integrated the Goals into 
the  national  development  framework.  Furthermore, 
appropriate institutional arrangements have been put in 
Both 
place to ensure that the implementation of the Goals is 
properly monitored at all levels.
the  executive  and 
legislative  arms  of 
Government  are  fully  involved,  and  the  progress 
achieved  is  periodically  reported  to  the  Cabinet  and 
Parliament. Our purpose is to achieve all-inclusiveness 
in the implementation of the SDGs. In that way, we seek 
to infuse the spirit of ownership into every citizen, so 
that  they  understand  and  appreciate  the  importance 
of  the  SDGs  and  why  they  need  to  participate  in  the 
implementation of the Goals, because we do not want 
to leave anyone behind.
It is important to underline that the implementation 
process is at its infancy stage. Furthermore, as expected, 
the process is faced with teething challenges owing to 
limited human, technological and financial resources, 
to name but a few. 
translated 
The  Government  has 
the  national 
vision, Vision 2022, into practical and feasible targets 
to  expedite  economic  growth  and  focus  the  country’s 
efforts  on  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals.  We  have  established  procedures  for  tracking 
progress  in  the  attainment  of  first-world  status.  The 
indicators  set  cover  eight  focal  areas:  economic 
prosperity,  education,  health  care,  service  delivery, 
infrastructure, 
environmental 
sustainability, governance and corruption.
agricultural 
and 
It  is  against  that  backdrop  that  we  have  revised 
the  national  development  strategy  with  a  view  to 
emphasizing linkages between the national development 
agenda,  the  SDGs  and  the  African  Union’s  Agenda 
2063:  The  Africa  We  Want.  For  example,  education 
and  training  are  aligned  to  Sustainable  Development 
Goals 1, 4, and 5. That thematic area is also linked to 
goals  1,  2,  and  18  of  Agenda  2063.  The  country  will 
improve  the  quality  of  education  by  enacting  policies 
that  will  revolutionize  the  education  system  in  the 
Kingdom.  The  State  will  direct  efforts  towards  the 
introduction of science, technology and innovation, as 
well as the redesign and presentation of technical and 
vocational  training  and  education  in  entrepreneurship 
at the primary-school level so as to inculcate a culture 
of  innovation,  creativity  and  entrepreneurship  at  a 
tender age.
Health  care  is  one  of  our  top  national  priorities, 
which  is  in  line  with  thematic  area  4,  which  focuses 
on  good  health.  And  that  thematic  area  links  directly 
to  goals  1  and  3  of  Agenda  2063  and  Sustainable 
12/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
Development Goals 1, 2, 3, and 6. Under that thematic 
area, the strategies prioritized for the country’s health 
sector include promoting health throughout one’s life, 
disease  prevention,  prompt  and  efficient  management 
of  medical  and  related  conditions,  rehabilitation  and 
influencing  health-related  activities  in  the  relevant 
primary  sectors.  The  country  will  specifically 
strengthen  health-care 
investment 
and  fast-track  the  establishment  of  a  national  health-
insurance  system  to  ensure  the  equity,  efficiency  and 
effectiveness in the provision of health services.
financing  and 
Under thematic area 5, the country has prioritized 
the  construction  of 
infrastructure,  which  will 
ultimately eradicate the hurdles associated with being 
a landlocked country. To that end, the Government has 
prioritized  road  construction  and  the  maintenance  of 
roads and buildings, civil aviation, sustainable energy, 
research  and  technology  development,  safe  water 
supply  and  sanitation,  water-resource  development, 
housing  and  human  settlements,  communications,  the 
environment, climate change and disaster management. 
Those priorities of the Government of Swaziland link 
to goals 7 and 10 of Agenda 2063 and SDGs 6, 7, 9, 11, 
13 and 15.
Furthermore,  the  country  will  increase  its  rail 
network from 300 to 429 kilometres, as well as establish 
a  rail-safety  regulator,  and  will  further  explore  the 
possibility  of  making  rail  transportation  competitive 
with road transport.
The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  will  continue  with  the 
implementations of such programmes, as they are key 
to our development agenda.
We have also made significant improvements in a 
variety  of  sectors,  but  other  challenges  are  reversing 
the gains we have made in past years, particularly with 
the  issues  of  HIV/AIDS  and  climate  change,  which 
are among the plethora of challenges that we face as a 
developing nation.
is  committed 
The  Kingdom 
to  addressing 
the  scourge  of  climate  change.  The  country  fully 
participated  in  all  the  negotiations  that  culminated 
in  the  adoption  and  subsequent  signing  of  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  The  negative  impact 
of  climate  change  has  become  a  thorn  in  the  side  of 
the  eSwatini  economy.  It  has  depleted  our  limited 
financial resources, killed an alarming number of our 
livestock  and  destroyed  most  of  our  ecosystems.  The 
drought  has  led  to  a  serious  reduction  in  the  water 
supply,  which  is  required  for  crop  production,  human 
use  and  consumption,  the  sustenance  of  remaining 
livestock and for slowing or stopping the disappearance 
of ecosystems. The drought has exacerbated food and 
nutrition  insecurity  for  many  of  our  people,  not  only 
in  the  Kingdom  but  throughout  the  Southern  African 
Development  Community  (SADC)  region  and  across 
the  entire  African  continent.  A  high  proportion  of 
our  economic  activity  is  agro-based.  Therefore,  the 
country  has  continued  to  feel  the  harsh  effects  of 
climate change at the levels of subsistence farming and 
commercial agriculture. It is against that backdrop that 
the Government of the Kingdom of eSwatini declared 
the drought a national disaster.
Integration  has  become  a  universal  subject  that 
transcends  all  aspects  of  life.  It  has  been  proved  that 
any  development  achieved  by  individual  countries  is 
the result of their citizens having deliberately worked 
together  as  a  collective  entity.  That  is  also  true  with 
the  United  Nations  family,  where  the  basis  of  all  our 
success is togetherness and unity in diversity. We have 
to come together — in our different sizes and with our 
diverse  cultures,  traditions,  economies  and  political 
and  social  inclinations  —  to  cooperate  and  become  a 
formidable family ready to address any challenge and 
achieve any objective we set for ourselves.
Integration  has  succeeded 
in  helping  nations 
work  together  for  common  objectives  as  regions  and 
continents and as the global community. Many countries 
have  succeeded  in  developing  their  economies  by 
collectively observing common regional rules in order 
to promote a regional agenda. Countries have agreed to 
open their markets in order to facilitate a high degree 
of  economic  activity,  which,  inter  alia,  boosts  trade 
and creates jobs. Peaceful societies have been created 
through integration, which is one of the key ingredients 
that propels the push to transform our world.
The Kingdom of eSwatini has continued to be an 
important and active player in promoting regional and 
continental  integration,  particularly  in  the  economic 
sphere.  We  are  a  member  of  several  integration 
arrangements  at  the  regional  level  in  southern  and 
eastern Africa, as well as at the continental level.
Last  month,  the  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  hosted  the 
thirty-sixth  SADC  Summit  of  Heads  of  State  and 
Government. The theme of the Summit was “Resource 
Mobilization  for  Investment  in  Sustainable  Energy 
Infrastructure for an Inclusive SADC Industrialization 
16-29811
13/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
for  the  Prosperity  of  the  Region”.  That  theme  is 
congruous with the theme of the seventy-first session 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  is  a  building-block  that 
augments the push to transform our world at the regional 
level. The Kingdom of eSwatini has been given the task 
of leading the SADC for one calendar year, which we 
accepted with dignity and humility.
The SADC Summit theme is in line with all of the 
Sustainable Development Goals, but most particularly 
with Goal 7, which is to “ensure access to affordable, 
reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all”, Goal 
9,  which  is  to  “build  resilient  infrastructure,  promote 
sustainable industrialization and foster innovation”, and 
Goal 8, which is to “promote inclusive and sustainable 
economic  growth,  employment  and  decent  work  for 
all”.
including 
integration  arrangements, 
The Kingdom of eSwatini is also party to a number 
of 
trade 
the 
Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, the 
Tripartite  Free  Trade  Area,  the  ongoing  negotiations 
of  the  Continental  Africa  Free  Trade  Area  and  the 
Economic  Partnership  Agreements.  Those 
trade 
agreements have opened up preferential market access 
opportunities  for  our  country  to  maximize  its  trade 
at  the  regional  and  international  levels.  Those  trade 
arrangements are also expected to boost the production 
capacity  of  countries  in  the  region  and  add  value  to 
primary products, which will lead to industrialization, 
job  creation  and,  subsequently,  poverty  reduction.  In 
other words, regional cooperation and integration work 
to  reinforce  the  implementation  of  the  SDGs  and  the 
push to transform our world.
One of the key elements to facilitate the successful 
implementation  of  the  SDGs  involves  consultation. 
Since time immemorial, the Kingdom of Swaziland has 
infused consultation into its way of life. It is a process 
that  is  appreciated,  accepted  and  embraced  by  every 
member  of  the  general  populace  at  all  levels.  It  is  a 
forum made available to all citizens of the country where 
they  may  literally  contribute  to  the  way  we  address 
all  economic,  social,  political  and  environmental 
issues that arise. The Kingdom’s consultation process 
is  unique.  Simple  and  transparent,  it  accommodates 
people  of  all  ages,  genders,  social  status,  educational 
backgrounds and political inclinations.
It  was  only  last  month  that  the  nation  convened 
for days at the Ludzidzini Royal Residence to discuss 
issues of national significance. We call that gathering 
the Sibaya, or the People’s Parliament. It is a national 
consultation  process  that  affords  every  Swazi  citizen 
an  opportunity  to  contribute  to  the  development  of 
the  country.  Such  an  inclusive  process  serves  as  a 
springboard for the implementation of the Sustainable 
Development Goals and provides a push to transforming 
our  Kingdom,  and  by  extension,  our  world,  in  a 
peaceful manner.
The  conflict  in  Syria  continues  to  be  a  great 
cause  for  concern  for  us  all.  We  call  upon  all  parties 
involved  to  immediately  find  an  amicable  solution  to 
the impasse. Many lives have been lost, and thousands 
of Syrians have become refugees in many parts of the 
world. We therefore urge the United Nations to address 
the problem in order to create suitable living conditions 
for  the  people  of  Syria.  We  furthermore  urge  those 
entrusted  with  the  responsibility  of  bringing  about 
peace  in  Syria  not  to  fight  with  one  another.  They 
should  instead  concentrate  their  efforts  on  restoring 
peace  in  the  country.  They  should  also  speak  in  one 
voice and adopt a tone and strategy that gives hope to 
the Syrians, who desperately need peace.
The Kingdom of eSwatini would like to emphasize 
that  the  push  to  transform  our  world  will  not  be 
effective or adequate if some individuals, communities, 
countries,  regions  or  continents  are  left  behind.  We 
must never forget that every individual has a part to play 
in the implementation of the Sustainable Development 
Goals and, subsequently, in the push to transform our 
world.  That  means  that  there  is  a  need  for  universal 
partnerships  at  all  stages  and  levels  throughout  the 
world.  That  inclusiveness  should  also  be  extended 
to  Member  State  representation  in  all  bodies  of  the 
United Nations.
According  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
the  Organization’s  mission  is  to  reaffirm  faith  in 
fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of 
the human person and in the equal rights of men and 
women and of nations large and small. Accordingly, the 
23 million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan 
should enjoy the same fundamental rights as any other 
people. Taiwan is mostly unable to attend the meetings 
and  activities  of  United  Nations  specialized  agencies. 
Thus  the  welfare  of  its  people  and,  by  extension,  all 
humankind,  is  adversely  affected.  There  is  no  doubt 
that  their  membership  will  add  value  to  the  family’s 
universal push to transform our world.
14/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
By  the  same  token,  my  delegation  reiterates  and 
maintains its call for Africa’s voice to be heard loud and 
clear in the Security Council. This appeal has been on 
the agenda for the past 15 years and has been specifically 
articulated in the 2005 Ezulwini Consensus adopted by 
the African Union Heads of State and Government. My 
delegation  believes  that  the  permanent  representation 
of the African continent in that United Nations organ 
can contribute tremendously to the implementation of 
the Sustainable Development Goals and to the universal 
push to transform our world.
Finally, once again, we wish the United Nations a 
prosperous future as it addresses the multiple challenges 
that we are faced with in many parts of the world.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Barnabas  Sibusiso  Dlamini,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Samiuela ‘Akilisi Pohiva, Prime 
Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
Trade, Minister for Education and Training of 
the Kingdom of Tonga
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and Trade, Minister for Education and 
Training of the Kingdom of Tonga.
Mr.  Samiuela  ‘Akilisi  Pohiva,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade,  Minister 
for  Education  and  Training  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Tonga, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Samiuela ‘Akilisi Pohiva, 
Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, 
Minister for Education and Training of the Kingdom of 
Tonga, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Pohiva  (Tonga):  At  the  outset,  allow  me 
to  echo  the  sentiments  of  the  many  Heads  of  State, 
Government and delegation before me in congratulating 
Mr. Thomson on his election to the presidency of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  We  are 
particularly  humbled,  yet  proud,  that  a  son  of  Fiji, 
indeed  a  son  of  our  Pacific  islands,  has  reached  the 
historic  milestone  of  being  chosen  by  the  Member 
States  of  this  institution  to  be  their  President.  He 
can  expect  the  full  cooperation  and  support  of  the 
delegation of the Kingdom of Tonga. May I also add my 
voice to the cause of previous speakers in thanking his 
immediate predecessor, Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, for his 
outstanding leadership of the General Assembly at its 
seventieth session.
We  welcome  the  President’s  timely  and  relevant 
choice  of  theme  for  this  session.  The  focus  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) — and of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development itself — is, 
as the theme aptly states, to transform our world and to 
ensure that no one is left behind. As we delve deeper 
into  the  implementation  of  the  Agenda  over  the  next 
years towards 2030, the transformation of our world, in 
line with the SDGs, can be accomplished, as the theme 
states,  only  through  a  universal  push.  That  means 
that all countries and all actors must work together at 
national,  regional  and  international  levels  in  order  to 
successfully  implement  the  Agenda  and  achieve  our 
targets.
An  important  gauge  of  that  success  is  the  extent 
of  a  country’s  internalization  of  the  lofty  Goals  and 
targets  that  have  been  set.  In  November  2015,  with 
the  assistance  of  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme 
incorporating 
the  SDGs  in  its  domestic  legislation  by  aligning  its 
national  strategic  development  framework  with  them. 
The SDGs are now an integral part of the Government’s 
corporate-planning and budgeting clauses.
(UNDP),  Tonga  began 
thereof,  and 
The health of our people is a top priority for Tonga. 
Indeed,  we  risk  losing  the  most  important  natural 
resource that Tonga has to develop our country if the 
people  fall  prey  to  the  dangers  of  non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs).  In  recognition 
in 
partnership with the Pacific Community and the World 
Health  Organization,  Tonga  hosted  the  first  regional 
summit  on  non-commuicable  diseases  in  June  of  this 
year in order to highlight the rampant spread of these 
diseases  throughout  the  Kingdom  and  the  Pacific 
island  region  and  to  consider  action  to  address  the 
regional  NCD  crisis.  We  were  privileged  to  have  as 
a  guest  of  honour  UNDP  Administrator  Helen  Clark, 
whose attendance at the summit was a first for her in 
her  current  role,  and  which  indicated  the  importance 
that  the  UNDP,  in  partnership  with  Tonga  and  the 
region,  attaches  to  that  health  topic.  As  one  of  the 
leading  countries  highlighted  by  the  NCDs  Joint 
Programming  Missions  programme  and  the  United 
16-29811
15/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
Nations Interagency Task Force on the Prevention and 
Control of NCDs, at a side event this week, Tonga was 
recognized at the international level for its integrated 
national efforts to address NCDs.
Related  to  the  important  issue  of  health  is  the 
onslaught of transnational crime in our country. With 
porous  borders,  drugs  have  managed  to  enter  Tonga 
through  the  illicit  movement  of  people  and  goods. 
Although our country is very small in terms of capital 
in comparison with our neighbouring countries, Tonga 
has seen the effect of the drugs trade on the health and 
well-being of our people, particularly our young people, 
which is putting the future of our country at risk. We 
support  the  regional  initiatives  of  the  United  Nations 
Office on Drugs and Crime to combat the trafficking 
in  drugs  and  precursors,  among  other  things,  and 
organized crime in the Pacific.
As a small island developing State — in other words, 
a  sea-locked  developing  country  —  our  traditional 
and  modern  relationship  with  the  ocean  places  the 
conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  the  ocean  and  its 
natural resources at the forefront of our interests. Tonga 
joined the ranks of Member States that argued for the 
importance of the ocean and seas to global sustainable 
development  and  gradually  steered  the  negotiations 
on  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
to  the  inclusion  of  SDG  14,  on  the  conservation  and 
sustainable use of the oceans, seas and marine resources 
in the Agenda.
We  are  now  greatly  committed  to  ensuring  that 
SDG 14, together with its set targets and indicators, is 
achieved by 2030. We therefore very much look forward 
to the first United Nations Conference to Support the 
Implementation of Sustainable Development Goal 14, to 
be held in June 2017, as the first global meeting to take 
stock  of  where  we  stand  in  terms  of  the  conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  our  oceans  and  its  resources 
and where we need to go to ensure that all targets are 
achieved.  We  thank  our  friends  Fiji  and  Sweden  for 
paving  the  way  for  the  holding  of  that  international 
conference. The Assembly can rest assured that Tonga 
will be highly engaged in that process.
We also commend Italy for its 10x20 Initiative in 
line  with  SDG  target  14.5,  which  seeks  to  set  aside 
10 per cent of our coastal waters as marine protected 
areas by 2020. We look forward to engaging with and 
supporting the work of the Steering Committee in that 
regard, under the able guidance of the co-Chairs, Italy 
and Maldives.
that 
Tonga  continues  to  recognize  the  importance 
of  the  work  of  the  International  Seabed  Authority 
(ISA).  Tonga  engages  in  the  Authority’s  processes 
to  ensure 
the  appropriate  conservation  and 
environmental-management  practices  are  sufficiently 
robust  in  terms  of  seabed  mining.  We  thank  the 
Member States that supported Tonga in its election to 
the  Council  of  the  Authority  in  2014  and,  earlier  this 
year, to the Council’s Legal and Technical Commission. 
In reiterating our support for the good work of the ISA 
Assembly, we look forward to assisting the Authority 
in  managing  the  upcoming  challenges  as  the  onset 
of  seabed  mining  in  the  Area  comes  to  the  fore.  We 
also  congratulate  the  ISA  Secretary-General-elect, 
Mr. Michael Lodge, and look forward to his stewardship 
of the Authority in the coming years.
The  regulation  of  the  exportation  of  biological 
diversity in areas beyond national jurisdictions has yet 
to be realized. In line with the decision of the leaders of 
the Pacific Island Forum in 2014, we strongly support 
the ongoing Preparatory Committee meetings process 
established  under  the  resolution  69/292,  of  19  June 
2015, which will make substantive recommendations at 
the seventy-second session of the General Assembly for 
a  legally  binding  instrument  on  the  conservation  and 
sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas 
beyond national jurisdiction.
We  commend  the  leadership  of  the  Chairperson 
of  the  Preparatory  Committee,  Ambassador  Eden 
Charles  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  and  look  forward 
to  his  continued  stewardship  and  skilful  guidance  of 
the  process  towards  its  completion  through  the  final 
two  Preparatory  Committee  meetings  next  year.  The 
draft  agreement  recognizes  the  value  and  importance 
of  ensuring  the  integrity  of  all  ecosystems,  including 
oceans, and the protection of biodiversity.
By partnering with friends, such as the International 
Union for Conservation of Nature, Tonga is able to face 
the challenges of climate change, while remaining fully 
aware that as a Government it cannot face such challenges 
alone. One of those challenges is the existential threat 
posed  by  climate  change  to  international  peace  and 
security. To ensure that the issue of negative impacts of 
climate change is high on the United Nations agenda, 
we  reiterate  our  call  for  a  Special  Representative  on 
climate and security and for the issue to be raised by 
16/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
our friends in the Security Council, due to its clear and 
unambiguous links to additional threats to international 
peace  and  security.  Be  it  in  terms  of  sea-level  rise, 
loss of territory, mass migration or as an instigator of 
violence and the suffering of peoples as a result of the 
scarcity of resources, the causal link is clear.
Tonga  is  the  third-most-vulnerable  country  in  the 
world  to  the  adverse  impacts  of  climate  change.  As 
a  signatory  party  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  its  subsequent 
Protocol,  Tonga  affirms  its  ongoing  commitment  to 
implementing the objectives of this core international 
framework  on  climate  change.  The  seriousness  of 
the  negative  impacts  of  climate  change  cannot  be 
underestimated.  Its  impacts  threaten  our  territorial 
infrastructure, 
integrity, 
food 
livelihoods 
and ecosystems.
security,  biological  diversity, 
land,  water, 
health, 
The maintenance of international peace and security 
is determined not solely, but in a major way, by the issue 
of  disarmament.  The  proliferation  of  weapons  in  all 
their forms not only threatens international peace and 
security, it also demonstrates the sheer waste of financial 
resources when Governments invest in the manufacture 
and trade in arms. Such finances could be better used 
for  international  sustainable  development  initiatives, 
which would logically contribute to international peace 
and security and the betterment of lives. The spending 
of  trillions  of  dollars  in  defence  budgets  to  develop 
weapons, including nuclear weapons, at the expense of 
the welfare of one’s people, is offensive and repugnant 
to the conscience of humankind.
In keeping with that sentiment, we wish to express 
our  concern  about  the  recent  nuclear  testing  by  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  in  breach 
of  decisions  made  by  the  United  Nations  to  promote 
international  peace  and  security.  Our  Pacific  islands 
and  region  having  experienced  the  negative  effects 
of  nuclear  testing,  Tonga  believes  in  the  need  for 
international standards to control and manage the use 
of nuclear capabilities and nuclear power for peaceful 
purposes. For its part, Tonga is at the final stage of its 
acceptance  process  of  the  statute  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency,  which  will  formalize  its 
membership  of  the  organization.  We  hope  to  deposit 
our instrument of acceptance with the Agency by the 
end of this month.
the  Right 
the  Declaration  on 
Part  of  the  challenge  of  ensuring  the  credible 
development of all States lies in preventing one country 
from  dominating  another  country  economically.  This 
matter  bears  directly  on  the  right  to  development, 
an  issue  that  we  discussed  last  Thursday  morning  at 
the  high-level  segment  to  commemorate  the  thirtieth 
anniversary  of 
to 
Development. The unfair application of such dominance 
results in the suffering of innocent people and, in the 
light  of  political  reasoning,  should  not  be  tolerated 
in this day and age. We therefore join many others in 
congratulating  the  Government  of  the  United  State 
on  incrementally  easing  its  restrictions  on  economic 
activity  in  Cuba.  Tonga  has  an  interest  in  that,  given 
our concern for the welfare of our nationals currently 
living and studying in Cuba, and also for the millions 
of people who merely want an opportunity to enjoy the 
right to development. We will again join the majority of 
States represented here this year in calling on the United 
States for a timely lifting of its embargo on Cuba.
We want to address the welfare of the Pacific people 
who are residents and citizens of West Papua province, 
Indonesia.  Last  year,  standing  on  this  same  rostrum 
(see A/70/PV.18), I spoke about the human rights abuses 
taking place in Indonesian-ruled West Papua. Nothing 
appears  to  have  changed  there  in  the  year  that  has 
elapsed. I use the word “appears” intentionally, because 
we still have no way of knowing exactly what is going 
on there. It seems that something is definitely wrong.
Nearly half a century ago, when I was still young, I 
learned, as had many others in the region, that a wrong 
had been done to the West Papuans. I am not a young 
man  now.  During  much  of  my  life  I  have  struggled,, 
against  great  odds  for  justice  and  democracy  in  my 
land.  In  the  Christian  faith,  a  universal  truism  is 
espoused through the story of the Good Samaritan. A 
badly  injured  man  lay  in  the  sun  by  the  roadside.  He 
had  been  stripped  of  his  clothing  and  was  evidently 
the  victim  of  a  robbery.  Without  any  reservation  or 
hesitation, free from religious and cultural restrictions 
or  bias,  the  Good  Samaritan  went  to  help  the  man, 
relieve his suffering, clothe him and nurse him back to 
health. The man was placed by the Good Samaritan in 
local accommodation where he could recover.
The Tongolese probably have the same neighbourly 
concern for the welfare of the indigenous people of West 
Papua. As called for by a decision taken at a meeting 
of the Pacific Islands Forum earlier this month in the 
Federated States of Micronesia, Tonga supports the goal 
16-29811
17/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
for  an  open  and  constructive  dialogue  with  Indonesia 
with regard to the status and welfare of the people of 
West  Papua.  Tonga  therefore  calls  on  Indonesia,  as  a 
dialogue partner of the Pacific Islands Forum, to work 
with  it  and  other  Forum  countries  to  facilitate  this 
decision  of  our  fellow  leaders,  either  bilaterally  or 
through United Nations mechanisms.
challenges,  but  also  to  present  a  vision  for  greater 
partnership for people, the planet, peace and prosperity. 
The  theme  chosen  for  this  session,  “The  Sustainable 
Development Goals: a universal push to transform our 
world”, is therefore very opportune as we embark upon 
realizing our vision and turning our commitments into 
concrete results for our people.
Finally, we reiterate our support for the President 
and  his  presidency.  We  also  take  this  opportunity  to 
pay  tribute  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  tireless 
work on behalf of all countries and peoples, and more 
especially  for  his  sensitivity  to  the  interests  of  small 
island developing States like my own, for which he has 
promoted  specific  initiatives.  His  presence  here  will 
surely be missed. We hope that his successor will carry 
forward his work on behalf of small island developing 
States. We wish him well in his future endeavours.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Minister for Education 
and Training of the Kingdom of Tonga, for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Samiuela  ‘Akilisi  Pohiva,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade,  Minister 
for  Education  and  Training  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Tonga, was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Pham  Binh  Minh,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Socialist Republic 
of Viet Nam.
Mr. Pham Binh Minh (Viet Nam): I congratulate 
Mr. Peter Thomson on his election as President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  I  am 
confident  that  his  wisdom,  leadership  and  experience 
will  guide  our  session  to  success.  Allow  me  also  to 
thank Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, President at the seventieth 
session, for his important contributions to the work of the 
Assembly.  My  special  gratitude  extends  to  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for his leadership, commitment, 
tireless efforts and tremendous contributions during his 
ten years at the helm of the Organization.
Last year, 2015, we established a common vision for 
the world we live in. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development,  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  on 
Financing  for  Development,  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change and the Sendai Framework for Disaster 
Risk  Reduction  not  only  seek  to  address  short-term 
believe 
that 
I 
achieving 
the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  is  within  our  grasp.  Our 
people,  our  children  and  grandchildren,  expect  us 
to  deliver  on  our  commitments.  The  implementation 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  has  laid  a 
solid  foundation.  Opportunities  are  plenty.  Reform, 
innovation,  creativity  and  economic  restructuring 
are  setting  countries  on  a  path  to  prosperity.  The 
internationalization  of  production  is  making  possible 
global  and  regional  cooperation  and  integration  for 
sustainable development. New advances in science and 
technology are paving the way for the fourth Industrial 
Revolution,  which  promises  to  bring  humanity  to  a 
new, higher level of development.
But  challenges  are  by  no  means  few.  Developing 
countries  in  particular  continue  to  suffer  from  the 
weak global economic recovery, rising protectionism in 
major economies, climate change, natural disasters and 
epidemics.  Food  and  water  security,  the  depletion  of 
natural resources, and the humanitarian and migration 
crises also have negative and far-reaching implications 
for  many  countries  and  regions.  Development  and 
income gaps are widening at the national, regional and 
global  levels.  The  instability  and  tension,  violence, 
conflicts,  terrorism  and  violent  extremism  that  are 
plaguing  many  regions  are  of  particular  concern. 
Power  politics  and  the  use,  or  threat  of  use,  of  force 
in  international  relations  continue  to  be  a  threat  to 
international peace and security.
That is the reality of our world today, and it compels 
us  to  work  together  to  promote  multilateralism  and 
adherence  to  international  law  for  peace,  cooperation 
and sustainable development. As has been demonstrated, 
multilateral  cooperation  has  a  growing  role  to  play 
in  international  relations.  We  are  seeing  multilateral 
institutions  expand,  both  in  numbers  and  in  strength. 
Multi-tiered  cooperation  and  integration  are  taking 
shape.  Multilateral  solutions  to  common  challenges 
prove  to  be  the  most  effective  and  long-lasting,  since 
no country, large or small, rich or poor, can afford to 
address those challenges alone. Multilateral institutions 
are also venues for countries to promote their interests, 
18/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
effectively manage disputes and differences and expand 
their development opportunities.
That is why Viet Nam believes that multilateralism 
must be strengthened and the operation of multilateral 
institutions,  particularly  the  United  Nations,  must  be 
improved.  The  United  Nations  has  an  indispensable 
role  to  play  by  coordinating  international  responses 
to  global  challenges  and  facilitating  development 
cooperation. No other organization is better at fostering 
partnerships  and  assisting  countries  to  successfully 
implement the SDGs.
Accordingly, to ensure greater equality, democracy 
and  transparency,  the  United  Nations,  including  the 
Security  Council,  must  undergo  reform.  The  United 
Nations development system must have better resources 
and be more effective and efficient. We must ensure the 
broadest  participation  of  all  countries  in  discussions 
and  formulations  of  resolutions  and  decisions,  so  that 
no country will be left behind.
International  law  remains  the  linchpin  of  a  stable 
international  security  architecture  and  a  strong 
multilateral  system.  Unfortunately,  the  role  of  the 
fundamental norms and principles of international law is 
underestimated. Unfair demands, unilateralism, power 
politics  and  the  use  of  force  to  address  international 
security and political issues have been creating tensions 
and confrontation, hindering efforts to peacefully settle 
disputes and conflicts.
This  is  where  the  United  Nations  can  and  must 
play  a  stronger  part.  The  Organization  must  take  the 
lead  in  promoting  adherence  to  international  law  and 
the Charter of the United Nations as the foundation for 
international  peace  and  security.  No  country,  big  or 
small, can be exempt from the law. The United Nations 
should  also  work  to  strengthen  preventive  diplomacy 
and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  utilizing  all 
tools, as provided in Article 33 of the Charter.
Above all, I believe that each country should align 
its  national  interests  with  those  of  humankind  and 
immerse itself in the community of nations. A policy 
of  humanity,  peace  and  friendship  will  enable  us  to 
eliminate hatred, narrow gaps, manage differences and 
open  up  opportunities  to  find  lasting  solutions  to  all 
disputes  and  conflicts.  Having  suffered  from  decades 
of  war,  Viet  Nam  treasures  peace  and  will  spare  no 
effort to maintain or achieve peace. We believe lasting 
peace  can  be  secured  only  by  long-term  vision  and  a 
comprehensive and inclusive approach that harmonizes 
Multilateralism, 
law, 
the  interests  of  all  stakeholders.  We  welcome  recent 
positive  developments  in  the  relations  between  Cuba 
and the United States and support resolutions on ending 
the economic embargo against Cuba.
international 
peace, 
cooperation  and  development  are  the  key  elements 
for  building  a  peaceful,  stable  and  prosperous  Asia-
Pacific  region.  Regional  countries  are  working  to 
promote  initiatives  for  political,  economic,  social  and 
cultural  cooperation  and  integration,  including  new-
generation free trade areas. However, the Asia-Pacific 
region  contains  risks  of  conflict,  especially  on  the 
Korean peninsula and in the South China Sea — all and 
any  of  which  can  threaten  regional  and  international 
peace, security and prosperity. With regard to certain 
recent  complicated  developments  in  the  South  China 
Sea,  we  call  upon  all  parties  concerned  to  exercise 
self-restraint and solve disputes by peaceful means in 
accordance with international law, including the 1982 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, fully 
respect diplomatic and legal processes, implement the 
Declaration  on  the  Conduct  of  Parties  in  the  South 
China Sea and expedite the completion of the code of 
conduct for the South China Sea.
Viet  Nam  is  strongly  committed  to  the  SDGs 
and  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
A  plan  of  action  for  the  implementation  of  the  SDGs 
has  been  developed,  and  we  are  working  with  United 
Nations agencies to craft the strategic plan 2017-2021, 
as  part  of  the  Delivering  as  One  initiative,  to  assist 
Viet Nam in the implementation of the SDGs. For us, 
implementing the SDGs is part of and also encompasses 
our  efforts  to  restructure  the  economy  and  transform 
the  growth  model,  develop  sustainable  infrastructure, 
ensure  social  justice,  address  inequalities  and  protect 
the  environment.  As  one  of  the  countries  predicted 
to  be  hardest  hit  by  climate  change  and  sea-level 
rise,  Viet  Nam  is  expediting  procedures  for  the  early 
ratification  of  the  Paris  Agreement  and  is  planning 
its implementation.
Experience  has  shown  that  success  comes  only 
when we take our development into our own hands. To 
transform the world, we must start with transforming 
ourselves and leave no one behind. Viet Nam believes 
it essential to bring its domestic resources into full play 
and  mainstream  sustainability  into  our  development 
vision,  strategies  and  policies,  with  the  people  at  the 
centre. We also believe that we can succeed only with 
stronger  global  partnerships,  in  which  the  United 
16-29811
19/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
Nations  plays  the  convening  and  coordinating  role. 
Viet Nam calls on developed countries to uphold their 
responsibility  to  take  the  lead  in  assisting  developing 
countries,  including  Viet  Nam,  to  realize  the  SDGs, 
especially in financing, capacity-building, technology 
transfer and trade facilitation.
As  a  peace-loving  and  friendly  nation,  Viet  Nam 
always  pursues  the  foreign  policy  of  independence, 
self-reliance, peace, cooperation and development. We 
strive to be a friend, a reliable partner and a responsible 
member  of 
international  community.  Our 
commitment to multilateralism and international law is 
unwavering, and we will spare no effort to contribute to 
peace, cooperation and development. 
the 
Viet Nam has decided to present its candidacy for 
non-permanent  membership  of  the  Security  Council 
for  the  term  2020-2021  and  will  continue  to  increase 
its  participation  in  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations.  Viet  Nam 
to  stronger 
partnership and collaboration with the United Nations 
and Member States to realize the vision of transforming 
our world and ensuring a better future.
looks  forward 
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Walid  Al-Moualem,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Expatriates  of  the 
Syrian Arab Republic.
Mr.  Al-Moualem  (Syria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 
would like to congratulate Mr. Peter Thomson and his 
friendly  country,  Fiji,  on  his  election  as  President  of 
the General Assembly at its seventy-first session. I wish 
him every success during his presidency, which he has 
promised would be one for the whole Assembly. Such 
a promise, if kept, would strengthen the neutral role of 
the President of the General Assembly and shed a bright 
light on facts that some are trying to conceal.
As we meet once again, our world is going through a 
grave and dangerous period. Terrorism, which we have 
cautioned  against  repeatedly  from  this  very  rostrum, 
has  continued  to  grow  and  gain  ground,  claiming  the 
lives  of  more  innocent  people  and  causing  death  and 
destruction as it rages unabated across the world. The 
blood  of  Syrians  was  not  enough  to  quench  its  thirst. 
It had to go after the citizens of many other countries, 
including those that have supported and sponsored it. 
These innocent people are now paying for the mistakes 
of their Governments, which have ignored the interests 
of their people and adopted short-sighted policies.
For more than five years, the Syrian people — no 
matter  their  affiliations  —  have  paid  dearly  for  the 
crimes  of  terrorists  who  have  shed  their  blood  and 
undermined  their  security,  stability  and  livelihoods.
Terrorism  has  spared  no  one,  even  targeting  schools 
and  universities,  hospitals,  places  of  worship  and 
infrastructure.  Everyone  knows  that  terrorism  would 
not have spread through my country if it had not been 
for the external support of certain countries. As is no 
longer  a  secret,  these  have  included  Qatar  and  Saudi 
Arabia,  which  have  promoted  their  jihadist  takfiri 
ideology  and  their  death  fatwas  that  have  nothing  to 
do  with  Islam.  They  have  bragged  about  supporting 
terrorism  in  every  way  possible,  sending  into  Syria 
thousands  of  mercenaries  equipped  with  the  most 
sophisticated weapons.
Meanwhile, Turkey has opened its border to admit 
tens of thousands of terrorists from around the world and 
has provided them with logistical support and training 
camps  under  the  supervision  of  Turkish  and  Western 
intelligence. It has even supplied those terrorists with 
direct military support, as was the case in Idlib, Aleppo 
and rural Latakia. I would like to refer the Assembly 
to  a  study  published  seven  months  ago  by  a  German 
institute, the Firil Center For Studies. According to that 
study,  more  than  360,000  foreign  terrorists  from  83 
countries have entered Syria since April 2011. By the 
end of 2015, the Syrian Army was able to kill 95,000 
of  them,  while  120,000  returned  home  or  travelled  to 
other countries.
In  Syria,  we  are  combating  terrorism  on  behalf 
of the entire world. Every time the Syrian Army kills 
another  foreign  terrorist,  it  spares  the  lives  of  the 
innocent people who could have died in terrorist acts 
committed by that same terrorist upon his return to his 
native  country.  Anyone  who  tries  to  distort  that  fact 
must be held responsible for the spread of terrorism and 
the  increasing  numbers  of  victims.  Our  valiant  Army 
deserves  to  be  commended  and  supported.  It  must 
never be the target of schemes and lies.
The  terrorist  campaign  against  my  country  is 
taking place in the full view of a polarized world. There 
are  those  who  have  chosen  to  support  international 
law  and  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, while others have decided to turn a blind eye 
to the truth and to support, finance and arm terrorists 
under false pretexts that depart from logic and reason. 
They  choose,  for  example,  to  refer  to  those  terrorists 
as  moderate  armed  opposition,  even  though  there  is 
20/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
irrefutable  evidence  that  the  groups  have  committed 
against  Syrians  crimes  and  massacres  that  are  no 
less barbaric than those of Da’esh or A1-Qaida. Some 
consider  people  who  take  up  arms  against  the  State 
and  its  citizens  legitimate  opposition  as  long  as  they 
are  located  in  Syria,  while  the  same  people,  on  any 
other day and in another country, would be considered 
terrorists, or at least outlaws.
These  facts  notwithstanding,  all  Syrians  —  the 
people,  the  Army  and  the  Government  —  will  not 
relent  in  their  fight  against  terrorism.  They  are  more 
determined  than  ever  before  to  eliminate  terrorism 
wherever it exists in their country and to rebuild a better 
Syria, because they are well aware that their homeland 
will  cease  to  exist  if  the  terrorists  and  their  backers 
emerge victorious. Our belief in victory is even greater 
now  that  the  Syrian  Army  is  making  considerable 
strides  in  its  war  against  terrorism,  with  the  support 
of  the  true  friends  of  the  Syrian  people,  notably  the 
Russian  Federation,  Iran  and  the  Lebanese  national 
resistance.  Such  support  has  helped  to  strengthen  the 
resilience of Syrians and to alleviate their suffering. We 
truly hope that other countries will soon wake up and 
realize, before it is too late, the danger that threatens 
us all.
We have always welcomed all international efforts 
to counter terrorism in Syria, but we stress once again 
the need to coordinate such efforts with the Government 
of the Syrian Arab Republic and the Syrian Arab Army 
that  has  been  combating  terrorism  on  the  ground  for 
more  than  five  years.  Without  such  coordination,  any 
action would be considered a breach of sovereignty, a 
flagrant interference and a violation of the purposes and 
principles  of  the  Charter.  Without  such  coordination, 
any action will fall short of achieving real results and 
will even make matters worse.
In  that  regard,  the  Syrian  Government  condemns 
in  the  strongest  possible  terms  the  attack  launched 
by  American  warplanes  on  a  Syrian  Army  site  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  Deir  ez-Zor  airport  on  17  September. 
That  attack  allowed  ISIL  to  gain  control  of  the  site. 
The Syrian Government holds the United States fully 
responsible  for  that  aggression,  because  facts  show 
that it was an intentional attack, and not an error, even 
if  the  United  States  claims  otherwise.  This  cowardly 
aggression  clearly  proves  that  the  United  States  and 
its allies are complicit with Da’esh and other terrorist 
armed organizations.
We also reiterate our condemnation of the Turkish 
incursion  into  Syrian  territories  under  the  pretext  of 
countering  terrorism.  That  flagrant  aggression  must 
be  stopped  immediately.  Terrorism  cannot  be  fought 
by  replacing  one  terrorist  organization  with  another. 
One cannot but wonder how a State that has been the 
main entry point for terrorists and weapons into Syria 
can  claim  to  be  fighting  terrorism.  How  can  there  be 
genuine  and  effective  international  counter-terrorism 
cooperation while relevant Security Council resolutions 
remain dead letters?
Since  the  onset  of  the  crisis  in  2011,  the  Syrian 
Government has declared that any solution must follow 
two  parallel  tracks:  a  counter-terrorism  track,  and  a 
political  track  through  an  intra-Syrian  dialogue  that 
allows Syrians to determine the future of their country 
without  foreign  interference.  All  solutions  dictated 
from the outside are categorically rejected by the Syrian 
people.  Likewise,  no  political  solution  will  succeed 
unless the necessary foundations and conditions for its 
implementation  have  been  laid,  including  intensified 
counter-terrorism  efforts  and  progress  in  the  national 
reconciliation process — a strategy which has proved 
successful in a number of areas around Syria.
Despite all the hurdles created by the regional and 
Western States that have sided with the self-proclaimed 
Syrian  opposition,  we  have  always  been  open  to  a 
political track that would stem the bloodshed and end 
the  prolonged  suffering  of  Syrians.  We  reiterate  our 
commitment to moving forward on the Geneva track, 
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations.  We  recall 
our  constructive  position  with  regard  to  the  political 
solution.  Such  a  solution  must  be  based  on  respect 
for 
territorial 
integrity of Syria and the unity of its people. It should 
begin  by  establishing  a  government  of  national  unity 
comprising  representatives  from  the  Government  and 
the  opposition,  in  all  its  factions,  and  tasked  with 
establishing  a  constitution-drafting  committee.  Once 
the  new  Constitution  had  been  approved  by  Syrians 
through  a  referendum,  parliamentary  elections  would 
follow and the new Government would be formed under 
the new Constitution.
independence  and 
the  sovereignty, 
It  is  truly  regrettable  that  some  are  exploiting 
the  humanitarian  tragedy  and  suffering  of  Syrians, 
especially in terrorist-held areas, and politicizing such 
suffering to achieve certain goals that have nothing to 
do with humanitarian principles or the interests of the 
Syrians  themselves.  Some  countries  continue  to  shed 
16-29811
21/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
crocodile tears over the situation of the Syrians in some 
areas, accusing the Syrian Government of employing a 
policy of sieges and starvation. At the same time, the 
same countries continue to support and arm the terrorists 
who are besieging civilians in the same areas, from the 
inside, using them as human shields and preventing the 
delivery of or confiscating humanitarian aid.
Make no mistake — no one is more committed than 
the Syrian Government to ending the suffering of the 
Syrian people and providing them with a life of dignity, 
wherever  they  may  be  and  without  exception.  That  is 
a duty and not a favour. We will spare no effort to that 
end, including in cooperation with the United Nations, 
despite all the difficulties that we are facing as a result 
of  the  systematic  destruction  by  externally  supported 
terrorist  organizations,  and  despite  the  unilateral 
coercive economic and financial measures imposed on 
the Syrian people by the very parties that falsely claim 
to have the interests of the Syrian people in mind. Such 
unilateral measures have adversely affected many vital 
sectors, including health care, education and energy.
Today,  while  Syria  is  confronting  mercenary 
terrorists  on  its  territory,  it  has  long  confronted  a 
different  kind  of  terrorism  —  the  terrorism  of  Israel, 
which  has  occupied  a  precious  part  of  its  land  in  the 
Syrian  Golan  since  4  June  1967.  Our  Syrian  Arab 
people  in  the  occupied  Golan  continue  to  suffer  as  a 
result  of  Israel’s  oppressive  and  aggressive  practices. 
Those practices are no longer confined to the occupied 
Golan but are currently affecting the security and life 
of  Syrians  in  the  southern  part  of  the  country.  Israel 
is directly intervening militarily to assist the terrorist 
organizations operating in the area in every way. Syria 
calls on the international community to put an effective 
end to all such practices and compel Israel to implement 
the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions,  particularly 
Security Council resolution 497 (1981) on the occupied 
Syrian Golan. 
including 
the  establishment  of 
The  United  Nations  should  also  compel  Israel  to 
allow the Palestinian people to enjoy their inalienable 
rights, 
their  own 
independent  State,  with  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  and 
the  return  of  Palestinian  refugees  to  their  land,  in 
accordance with internationally recognized resolutions.
Syria  reaffirms  that  Israel’s  aggressive  policies 
threaten  not  only  Syria,  but  the  region  in  general, 
especially  given  Israel’s  nuclear  arsenal.  We  have 
stressed time and again the need to compel Israel to join 
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons 
and  other  treaties  on  weapons  of  mass  destructon 
(WMDs) and to subject its nuclear installations to the 
oversight of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Syria  stresses  the  right  of  States  to  use  nuclear 
technology  for  peaceful  purposes.  We  have  always 
called for creating a WMD-free zone in the Middle East. 
In fact, we have efficiently and responsibly eliminated 
all chemical weapons in Syria, in cooperation with the 
Joint  Mission  of  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition 
of Chemical Weapons and the United Nations. In that 
regard,  Syria  reiterates  its  readiness  to  continue  its 
cooperation with the Joint Investigative Mechanism, as 
well as to continue the relevant Syrian investigations.
We  congratulate  Cuba  and  Iran  on  reaching 
agreements to lift the embargoes imposed on them, and 
we  look  forward  to  their  implementation.  We  renew 
our  call  for  removing  the  illegal  economic  measures 
imposed  on  the  Syrian  people  and  other  independent 
peoples  in  the  world,  notably  the  peoples  of  the 
Democratic Republic of Korea, Venezuela and Belarus.
In closing, we wish Member States and their peoples 
lasting  security  and  prosperity.  We  hope  that  our 
Organization will be able to regain public trust around 
the  world  by  upholding  the  provisions  of  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  which  calls  for  respecting  the 
sovereignty  and  independence  of  Member  States  and 
ensuring non-interference in their internal affairs. That 
principle, if implemented, would lay the foundations for 
genuine and fair relations among nations after the greed 
and arrogance of some have shaken them to their core.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Ahmad Zahid Hamidi, Deputy Prime Minister and 
Minister for Home Affairs of Malaysia.
Mr.  Hamidi  (Malaysia):  Allow  me  at  the  outset 
to  congratulate  His  Excellency  Peter  Thomson  on 
his  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventy-first  session.  I  also  wish  to  express  my 
delegation’s  deepest  appreciation  to  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session,  for  his  leadership 
and able stewardship.
Malaysia 
to 
is  committed 
the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and 
its  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). For Malaysia, the nation’s 
development  agenda  has  always  been  people-centred, 
which  runs  parallel  to  the  aspirations  of  the  SDGs.  I 
22/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
am pleased to state here that Malaysia has set in motion 
initiatives and actions to achieve the 2030 Agenda. Our 
current  five-year  development  plan  —  the  eleventh 
Malaysia  plan,  covering  the  period  from  2016  to 
2020  —  was  formulated  with  people  at  the  centre  of 
all development efforts and with the theme “Anchoring 
growth on people”.
The plan embraces three main principles: achieving 
high income, inclusiveness and sustainability. In many 
of  its  aspects,  the  plan  mirrors  the  multidimensional 
nature  of  the  2030  Agenda.  As  the  2030  Agenda  is 
implemented,  the  SDGs  will  be  integrated  into  the 
national  framework  of  the  plan.  Malaysia  is  also  in 
the  process  of  formulating  a  national  SDG  road  map, 
establishing  a  broad-based  and  inclusive  committee 
to  oversee  the  implementation  and  monitoring  of  the 
SDGs  and  strengthening  the  data  requirements  for 
them. That road map will serve as an overarching and 
guiding policy for Malaysia’s sustainable development.
In  the  meantime,  every  effort  is  being  made  to 
ensure  that  the  initiatives  outlined  in  the  eleventh 
Malaysia  plan  are  duly  implemented.  They  include  a 
technical  and  vocational  education  training  (TVET) 
component. By providing essential skills through TVET 
programmes,  we  are  not  only  preparing  the  youth  for 
the labour market, but also preparing human capital for 
nation-building. Graduates of our TVET programmes, 
which involve cooperation between the National Youth 
Skills  Institute  and  various  multinational  companies, 
have a 90 per cent employability rate.
Next, I want to talk about our very own magic, or 
Malaysian  Global  Innovation  and  Creativity  Centre 
(MaGIC),  which  will  work  to  make  Malaysia  the 
startup capital of Asia. Our mission is to catalyse the 
entrepreneurial  ecosystem  in  Malaysia  by  bringing 
together  the  abundant  resources  of  partners  and 
communities  alike  in  order  to  develop  entrepreneurs 
that  will  start  enduring  and  high-growth  companies, 
thereby exerting a positive impact at the regional and 
global  levels.  MaGIC,  which  is  located  in  Cyberjaya, 
Malaysia, was jointly launched by the President of the 
United States of America, Mr. Barack Obama, and our 
Prime  Minister,  Mr.  Najib  Tun  Razak,  in  April  2014. 
On that memorable day, MaGIC signed a memorandum 
of understanding with UP Global to further foster and 
develop a vibrant ecosystem for startup companies in 
Malaysia and beyond.
In  Malaysia,  we  no  longer  work  in  silos.  We 
have  moved  into  a  new  working  environment  that 
we call the “blue ocean” and have bid farewell to the 
archaic  “red  ocean”.  We  have  introduced  a  unique 
national development strategy based on creativity and 
innovation known as the National Blue Ocean Strategy 
(NBOS). It is a strategy in which over 80 ministries and 
agencies  —  from  the  police  and  military,  to  women, 
youth  and  higher  education  organizations  —  are 
collaborating to formulate and execute creative NBOS 
initiatives that are transforming the country. The unique 
Strategy  also  involves  public  and  private  partnership. 
NBOS  gave  birth  to  our  unique  urban  transformation 
centres  and  rural  transformation  centres.  One  only 
needs to go to either centre for all Government services.
Malaysia  is  also  no  stranger  in  the  area  of 
volunteerism.  I  am  referring 
to  our  very  own 
organization  of  Malaysian-based  Hospitals  Beyond 
Boundaries  (HBB),  as  well  as  to  other  voluntary 
organizations  and  non-governmental  organizations. 
HBB is a non-profit organization that is committed to 
providing  accessible  health  care  through  community-
run  clinics 
in 
Cambodia and Malaysia. HBB is led by a recipient of 
the  United  Nations  Young  Leader  Award,  Dr.  Mohd 
Lutfi  Fadil  Lokman,  who  was  selected  under  SDG  3, 
“Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at 
all ages”.
in  underprivileged  communities 
We  have  heard  testimonies  from  various  small 
island  developing  States  on  the  devastating  impact  of 
climate change on their countries and populations and 
the existential threat it presents to their subsistence. We 
have  seen  an  increase  in  the  frequency  and  intensity 
of  climate-related  disasters,  such  as  floods,  coastal 
erosion and landslides, in many other countries across 
the globe.
Such  extreme  weather  events  have  affected 
economic  activities  and  the  livelihoods  and  safety  of 
people.  If  left  unchecked,  I  am  afraid  climate  change 
could, in fact, constitute the greatest threat multiplier 
for  global  security.  Realizing  the  increasingly  urgent 
need to address the impact of climate change, we came 
together  in  Paris  last  December  and  took  the  historic 
step  of  adopting  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change.  We  must  now  follow  through  and  carry  out 
the  commitments  assumed  thereunder.  Malaysia  is 
committed to reducing the intensity of greenhouse gas 
emissions of its gross domestic product by up to 45 per 
16-29811
23/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
cent by 2030. Malaysia is currently working towards its 
ratification of the Paris Agreement.
An  international  environment  that  enables  peace 
and  security  is  also  important  for  the  successful 
implementation  of  the  SDGs.  Yet  we  are  witnessing 
various  conflicts  in  several  parts  of  the  world.  The 
rise  in  the  phenomenon  of  non-State  actors  such  as 
Da’esh,  Boko  Haram  and  Al-Shabaab  has  caused  the 
instability and insecurity of nations. The international 
community continues to witness horrific acts of cruelty 
by  these  non-State  actors.  They  employ  terror  tactics 
and  extremism  as  ways  of  spreading  their  influence 
and reach.
The  fight  against 
terrorism  cannot  be  won 
through  force  or  punitive  measures  alone.  Malaysia 
has  established  deradicalization  and  rehabilitation 
programmes  that  are  oriented  towards  changing  the 
mindsets  of  radicalized  extremist  individuals.  The 
programmes  are  complemented  by  various  forms  of 
humanitarian  assistance  to  facilitate  the  reintegration 
of  those  individuals  into  society.  Such  measures  are 
important  to  avoid  relapse.  The  success  rate  of  our 
deradicalization programme thus far is around 97.5 per 
cent.  Malaysia  has  come  up  with  a  deradicalization 
module and a standard operation procedure, which we 
stand ready to share with other nations.
No nation is immune to the threat of international 
terrorism.  Hence,  there  is  an  urgent  need  to  address 
terrorism comprehensively. We need to counter it from 
an ideological perspective by addressing the narratives 
and  root  causes  of  terrorism  and  exploring  how 
they  could  be  used  to  attract  people  into  supporting 
terrorist  groups.  We  need  to  explore  new  solutions 
and  continuously  work  to  enhance  our  domestic  legal 
framework in the fight against violent extremism. The 
continuous efforts should involve a diverse cross section 
of our population. We should enhance our interactions 
by winning the hearts and minds of religious leaders, 
women  and  our  youth.  We  should  build  networks  at 
all levels of society where they can help by providing 
counter-narratives  and  counter-messaging 
through 
community-based  efforts  —  the  arts,  media,  sports, 
and culture.
Today,  we  are  still  grappling  with  the  problem 
of  determining  and  identifying  the  root  causes  of 
terrorism. Many people speculate that those root causes 
could  be  poverty,  deprivation,  alienation,  suppression 
or any of myriad other factors. Malaysia therefore joins 
others in calling for robust and effective international 
action  in  our  collective  fight  against  terrorism.  Such 
action  must  be  based  on  full  respect  for  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  for  universally  recognized 
principles of law, including international humanitarian 
law  and  international  human  rights  law.  Only  if  and 
when  the  international  community  stands  united  can 
the terrorists be defeated.
  Seven  decades  after  the  inception  of  the  United 
Nations, the question of Palestine remains unresolved. 
The  protracted  crisis  highlights  the  inherent  flaws  in 
the  workings  of  the  United  Nations,  where  the  use  of 
the veto continues to perpetuate the longest occupation 
in modern history. Over the years, the situation on the 
ground  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  is  slowly 
but  surely  moving  away  from  a  two-State  solution. 
The  blockade  on  Gaza  by  the  occupying  Power,  the 
unrelenting  expansion  of  illegal  Israeli  settlements, 
the continued construction of illegal walls, the forced 
transfer of Palestinians from their homes and the gross 
violations  of  their  human  rights  continue  unabated 
despite mounting international pressure and criticism.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  highlight 
the  lingering  problem  pertaining  to  the  resettlement 
of  existing  refugee  populations  in  host  countries  to 
third  countries.  Lengthy  delays  in  the  resettlement 
of  refugees  inevitably  result  in  economic,  social, 
political  and  security  hardships  for  the  host  country. 
We  therefore  urge  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees,  the  International 
Organization  for  Migration  and  the  States  parties  to 
the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees 
and its related Protocol to address this matter and act 
promptly on it. While we are cognizant of the elements 
contained  in  the  New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees 
and  Migrants  (resolution  71/1),  we  emphasize  that  no 
initiative should place a State that is not a signatory to 
the relevant international instruments in a position that 
is inconsistent with the provisions of the 1969 Vienna 
Convention on the Law of Treaties.
Malaysia’s robust, rapid development and economic 
growth have attracted people throughout our region, by 
both  legal  and  illegal  means,  who  seek  better  living 
conditions and greater employment opportunities. These 
are the main drivers of migration within the South-East 
Asia  region.  Malaysia  recognizes  the  contributions 
of the foreign workers to its economic prosperity and 
considers  it  equally  important  to  protect  their  safety 
and welfare. Accordingly, the Government of Malaysia 
24/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
pays  attention  to  cases  involving  labour  exploitation, 
including forced labour, and the definition of trafficking 
in  persons  under  the  Malaysian  Anti-Trafficking  in 
Persons  and  Anti-Smuggling  of  Migrants  Act  2007 
has  been  broadened  to  include  labour  exploitation. 
This  is  in  line  with  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  which  requires  immediate  and  stern 
measures  to  eradicate  forced  labour,  modern  slavery 
and human trafficking. Malaysia works in concert with 
the  international  community  to  tackle  and  eliminate 
those heinous crimes, which have caused grave injustice 
as well as untold suffering.
Malaysia 
joins 
the  other  Member  States 
in 
expressing  its  profound  gratitude  to  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon for his able leadership as Secretary-
General of the world body since 2007. It is our fervent 
hope  that  the  incoming  Secretary-General  will  have 
strong leadership traits, a transformative vision of the 
United Nations, in particular the reform of the Security 
Council,  and  the  ability  to  address  the  present  and 
emerging challenges that threaten international peace, 
security, development and human rights.
The Acting President: I now call on Mr. Pasquale 
Valentini, Minister for Foreign and Political Affairs of 
the Republic of San Marino.
Mr.  Valentini  (San  Marino)  (spoke  in  Italian; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  On  behalf 
of  the  Government  of  San  Marino,  I  would  like  to 
congratulate His Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson on his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the 
seventy-first  session.  We  wish  him  a  fruitful  session, 
and the San Marino delegation assures the President of 
its full cooperation throughout the work of the General 
Assembly.  I  would  also  like  to  express  my  country’s 
gratitude  to  the  outgoing  President,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, for the work he did during the 
seventieth session.
At  the  end  of  the  last  year  of  his  second  term  as 
Secretary-General,  my  country  extends  its  special 
thanks  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-Moon  for  the 
energy  and  determination  with  which  he  has  led  the 
United  Nations,  and  for  the  sensitivity  he  has  shown 
towards all Member States without distinction.
The theme chosen for this session, “The Sustainable 
Development Goals: a universal push to transform our 
world”,  offers  an  interesting  opportunity  to  make  a 
constructive contribution to the work of the Assembly. 
The  United  Nations  today  faces  challenges  whose 
level  of  complexity  and  degree  of  interrelatedness 
are unparalleled in its history. The Organization must 
adapt quickly to new global challenges but also to the 
new  opportunities  offered  by  globalization  in  order 
to  be  more  effective  in  carrying  out  its  mandate.  At 
the  same  time,  the  very  complexity  of  these  global 
challenges, which cannot be solved by any single State 
alone,  unequivocally  reaffirms  the  value  and  central 
role of the United Nations as a forum for solving global 
problems. In this context, the determination shown by 
the Secretary-General in submitting a proposal to the 
Organization  for  adaptation  and  requesting  similar 
adaptation  from  Member  States  must  be  highlighted. 
This  is  why  many  of  the  initiatives  undertaken  have 
yielded significant results during his mandate.
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  in  September  2015  in  the  presence  of 
many Heads of State and Government  including Their 
Excellencies  the  Captains  Regent  of  the  Republic  of 
San Marino  was one of the most important moments 
in  the  history  of  the  United  Nations.  This  ambitious 
Agenda integrates the three dimensions of sustainable 
development  —  economic,  social  and  environmental. 
As  an  expression  of  a  strong  political  consensus  on 
the  approach  to  sustainable  global  and  innovative 
development, 
for  Sustainable 
Development  defines  our  future  and  the  vision  of  the 
world  we  want  to  live  in.  The  transformation  process 
for  a  new  model  of  sustainable  development  is  now 
under way.
the  2030  Agenda 
Our  country  appreciates  the  commitment  shown 
by  Member  States  to  the  reduction  of  carbon  dioxide 
emissions  by  2020.  Our  country  also  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  and 
to  the  monitoring  mechanism  identified  in  the  High-
level Political Forum on Sustainable Development. The 
real challenge today lies in the firmness of our will to 
effectively implement this vision. This is the response 
that the peoples we represent in this forum expect from 
us: that our Organization fulfil its mandate of protecting 
the citizens of the world and that Member States resume 
their  responsibilities  without  letting  national  interests 
prevail over the ideals of solidarity and respect for the 
universal rights of every human being. Any hesitation 
in  doing  so  will  inevitably  exact  a  very  heavy  toll  in 
terms of destruction and loss of human lives.
Over  the  past  few  years,  we  have  unfortunately 
witnessed  a  series  of  events  that  constitute  a  very 
serious  threat  to  international  peace  and  security  and 
16-29811
25/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
therefore  are  an  obstacle  to  the  complete  fulfilment 
of our mandate. We are facing the persistence of wars 
that have caused an unprecedented global humanitarian 
crisis, an increase in terrorism and violent extremism, 
the  tragedy  of  the  large  movements  of  migrants  and 
refugees, and a rise in populism and intolerance.
The  conflict 
in  Syria,  which  has  continued 
uninterrupted  since  March  2011,  has  already  caused 
more  than  270,000  deaths,  of  which  over  13,000  are 
children  and  more  than  8,000  women.  In  addition, 
hundreds of thousands of people have been wounded. 
Inevitably,  the  humanitarian  situation  in  Syria  has 
drastically deteriorated. Most of those who need primary 
care, in particular women and children, live in besieged 
areas that cannot be reached by humanitarian convoys.
In  five  years,  the  Syrian  conflict  has  caused 
4.8 million people to become refugees in neighbouring 
countries — hundreds of thousands in Europe — and 
6.6  million  displaced  people  inside  Syria  itself,  out 
of  a  population  of  over  20  million  people  before  the 
war.  More  than  130  million  people  worldwide  need 
humanitarian assistance as a result of armed conflicts 
and natural disasters. In Syria, for example, more than 
13 million people need humanitarian assistance because 
of the war. In Yemen, there are more than 20 million 
who require assistance.
The  Republic  of  San  Marino  has  always  strongly 
condemned  all  violations  of  human 
rights  and 
international humanitarian laws perpetrated in Syria by 
all parties to the conflict, without any distinction. These 
are  violations  that  are  unfortunately  still  occurring 
today as we gather to affirm our commitment to peace 
and  security.  San  Marino  supports  the  action  of  the 
Secretary-General in Syria through his Special Envoy 
and  expresses  its  appreciation  for  the  work  carried 
out there.
San  Marino 
is  well  aware  of 
the  extreme 
seriousness of the world situation and of the need for 
each international stakeholder to play its part. In recent 
months it has contributed concretely to addressing the 
present humanitarian emergency. Besides contributing 
financially 
international  programmes, 
San  Marino  has  joined  the  Humanitarian  Corridors 
project  promoted  by  the  Community  of  Sant’Egidio, 
the Federation of Evangelical Churches in Italy and the 
Waldensian Table, supported by the Italian Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs, and has hosted some migrants in the 
to  various 
Republic of San Marino — a small contribution from a 
micro-State with great determination.
It is therefore necessary to have a united approach 
that  combines  the  long-term  perspective  embodied 
in  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  with  a 
short-term focus that makes it possible for us to address 
the  emergencies  that  are  evident  to  all.  This  united 
approach  can  only  result  from  a  significant  cultural 
change  based  on  the  awareness  of  belonging  to  one 
human family and recognizing, as a consequence, the 
culture  of  understanding  and  of  peaceful  coexistence 
among different peoples and cultures as the only way to 
face the challenges of globalization without excluding 
anyone.  Indeed,  working  together  is  the  only  way  to 
build a planet for all.
With a view to fulfilling that mandate, we wish to 
express our heartfelt thanks to the Secretary-General for 
having placed the protection and promotion of human 
rights at the core of his agenda. Today, we can say that 
this is a cross-cutting issue and that human rights are 
reflected in every action of the United Nations aimed 
at  achieving  peace,  security,  justice  and  sustainable 
development. Only once we fully recognize and share 
the  sense  of  the  inalienable  value  of  the  person,  in 
whatever condition or stage of life, will the cultural and 
religious  differences  and  the  many  traditions  within 
our  Organization  be  seen  not  as  obstacles  to  possible 
solutions  but  rather  as  valuable  resources  that  make 
it  possible  to  harmonize  the  diverse  interests  of  the 
international  community.  In  this  regard,  promoting 
full respect for individuals is not just one of the many 
goals but, on the contrary, the foundation upon which 
all  our  actions  must  be  based  in  order  to  eliminate 
poverty, share prosperity, offer decent work to all and, 
ultimately, protect our planet.
to  affirming 
The work of the United Nations and its specialized 
agencies  contributes 
the  culture  of 
respect  for  fundamental  rights,  mutual  knowledge 
and  understanding,  tolerance  and  hospitality.  This  is 
the culture that we, the States Members of the United 
Nations, must strive to disseminate among our citizens, 
starting  with  our  young  people,  because  it  is  only  by 
affirming those values that the objectives set out by our 
Organization will be achieved.
The Republic of San Marino, in accordance with its 
history and tradition of freedom and democracy, firmly 
believes  in  that  mandate  and  will  support  any  action 
26/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
that helps strengthen the United Nations as it strives to 
fulfil it.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms. Aurelia Frick, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister 
for Education and Minister for Cultural Affairs of the 
Principality of Liechtenstein.
Ms.  Frick  (Liechtenstein):  The  migration  and 
refugee crises are at the heart of our debate these days, 
both here and back home. People around the world are on 
the move in unprecedented numbers. Some 65 million 
have  been  forcibly  displaced  in  the  last  year.  At  the 
summit  on  Monday,  we  made  an  important  collective 
statement that should shape our policies — migration 
should be a choice, not a necessity. The United Nations is 
the place to address the drivers of forced displacement.
Our  second  challenge  to  frame  migration  as  a 
positive  force.  Migrants  contribute  to  diversity  and 
global wealth. They bring fresh skills and dynamism to 
their host countries. If they are integrated successfully, 
they  enrich  societies.  A  positive  narrative  on 
migration  is  not  difficult  to  present.  The  facts  speak 
for themselves, but many of us lack the ability — and 
often the courage — to speak truthfully about the facts. 
Exploiting  fears  in  a  search  for  short-term  political 
gains is cynical. It is an unproductive game. We must 
do better than that.
Mass  atrocities  are  one  of  the  main  drivers  of 
displacement;  one  needs  only  to  take  a  look  at  the 
tragic situation in Syria and the massive displacement 
it  has  caused.  Preventing  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity and war crimes will eliminate one of the main 
reasons why people are forced to flee their homes.The 
Security Council can enter a new phase of its history 
of engagement on these crimes, moving from shameful 
indifference  to  responsible  action.  One  hundred  and 
twelve  States  subscribe  to  the  code  of  conduct  on 
atrocity  crimes  of  the  Accountability,  Coherence 
and  Transparency  Group.  It  offers  the  opportunity  to 
change the political culture in the Security Council so 
that failures such as the one in Syria can become a thing 
of the past, and so as to make a significant reduction 
of forced displacement a reality. It goes hand in hand 
with  the  Secretary-General’s  Human  Rights  Up  Front 
initiative, which we warmly welcome.
Armed  conflicts  also  force  people  to  flee,  often 
in large numbers. Many conflicts can be prevented if 
competent diplomacy is decisive and timely. The world 
is  looking  to  the  Organization  to  mobilize,  and  too 
often it is disappointed. Getting serious about conflict 
prevention should be a priority for the next Secretary-
General  —  with  the  necessary  means  provided  by 
the  Member  States.  But  let  us  not  forget  that  armed 
conflict  is  a  violation  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter  in  and  of  itself.  For  70  years  now,  it 
has been illegal to engage in an armed conflict, except 
in  narrowly  defined  circumstances.  We  now  can  also 
hold  the  most  egregious  perpetrators  of  illegal  use  of 
force responsible.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is 
the  most  comprehensive  blueprint  for  action  we  have 
ever  agreed  on  —  a  pledge  to  our  children  and  to  all 
future generations. It is also an ambitious promise that 
we  can  keep  only  it  if  we  work  together  with  resolve 
and persistence. All 17 Goals are of equal importance 
and they are all connected. We will treat them as such 
in our implementation effort, but we will naturally also 
place special emphasis on the areas where we feel we 
can make a special contribution.
The  rule  of  law,  in  particular,  is  a  long-standing 
priority  for  Liechtenstein.  Accountable  institutions, 
access to justice for everyone and significant reduction 
of  corruption  —  all  these  are  key  ingredients  for 
sustainable  development.  Justice 
is  credible  and 
effective  only  if  it  is  delivered  in  an  even-handed 
manner. Only if it is clear that nobody is above the law 
can  the  law  prevail.  Ensuring  accountability  for  the 
most serious crimes under international law is therefore 
crucial. 
For almost 15 years now, the International Criminal 
Court has been the symbol of our pledge that even the 
most powerful are not above the law — that there will 
be no impunity for perpetrators of the worst crimes. We 
fully support the Court and are committed to helping 
to improve it.
We  look  forward  to  the  extension  of  the  Rome 
Statute,  whereby  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  will  expand 
to  include  crimes  of  aggression  and  the  most  serious 
forms of the illegal use of force will be criminalized. 
This will be a historic step, marking the first time since 
the creation of the United Nations that an international 
tribunal  will  have  such  jurisdiction.  The  necessary 
number  of  States  has  ratified  the  relevant  Kampala 
Amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute,  and  the  activation 
of this ground-breaking regime is scheduled for 2017. 
I  appeal  to  everyone  to  join  the  32  States  who  have 
ratified these Amendments — and to do so soon.
16-29811
27/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
The Court is the strongest symbol that impunity is 
no  longer  an  option.  At  the  same  time,  it  is  also  not 
a  solution  to  all  problems.  The  Court’s  capacity  to 
handle cases is limited, and there are still a significant 
number of States outside its jurisdiction. Among them 
are some that most warrant greater accountability, such 
as  Syria.  The  crimes  committed  against  its  civilian 
population since 2011 are as atrocious as they are well-
documented.  The  attack  on  the  humanitarian  convoy 
in Aleppo marks a new low. We understand that these 
atrocious  crimes  will  be  thoroughly  investigated,  as 
they should be. A peace process in a country must have 
a strong accountability dimension. That is the least we 
can provide after having failed the people of Syria for 
so long.
The  2030  Agenda  also  deals  with  one  of  the 
defining  human  rights  crises  of  our  times  —  human 
trafficking  and  modern  slavery.  Upon  entering  the 
United Nations from the North Lawn, one can see the 
monument erected to commemorate the victims of the 
transatlantic slave trade. That is a dignified, important 
reminder  of  a  terrifying  crime  against  humanity.  But 
let us not be misled into believing that the scourge has 
been relegated to the past. Over 45 million people today 
live in conditions that qualify as modern slavery, which 
generates  billions  of  dollars.  Every  single  country  in 
the world is affected by it and virtually no perpetrators 
are held accountable — even though slavery is outlawed 
universally.
Modern  slavery  is  a  complex  phenomenon  that 
affects all of us and should leave none of us indifferent. 
We all have a chance to make a difference as individual 
consumers  and  as  policy-makers.  Modern  slavery  is 
not  only  one  of  the  biggest  human  rights  scandals  of 
our times; it is also one of the biggest illegal business 
models.  Liechtenstein  will  focus  its  contribution  on 
disrupting financial flows and using relevant data for 
criminal  prosecutions  —  in  short,  on  following  the 
money. We will also work towards a greater involvement 
of international justice mechanisms in the cases where 
national judiciaries systematically fail.
I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon. We will remember him as a tireless advocate 
for the purposes and principles of the United Nations. 
We are thankful for his service.
Effective  leadership  is  a  key  ingredient  for  the 
success of the Organization. We have therefore invested 
a great deal in the selection process of the next Secretary-
General. We have achieved a new level of transparency, 
which  is  an  important  step  forward.  But  we  must  be 
honest  with  ourselves;  we  have  started  at  such  a  low 
level that there is still a lot of room for improvement. 
The opportunity to engage with declared candidates is 
welcome. It should also be a given. We now must ensure 
that the entire membership is consulted with respect to 
the  appointment  itself.  We  strongly  believe  in  giving 
the  next  Secretary-General  a  single  term  of  office. 
That  would  enhance  the  independence  of  the  Office 
of the Secretary-General, as prior office-holders have 
confirmed.
Finally, it is my strong personal wish to finally see 
a woman lead the Organization — an Organization that 
has been such a trailblazer for gender equality. We do 
believe that the appointment should be merit-based. The 
best-qualified  person  available  should  be  offered  the 
job. I would be very happy if that person was a woman.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Charles Flanagan, Ministerfor Foreign Affairs and 
Trade of Ireland.
Mr. Flanagan (Ireland): I am very pleased to have 
the opportunity to address the General Assembly this 
afternoon on behalf of my country, Ireland. My address 
will be framed under the overall theme of migration, an 
issue which in itself is a huge challenge for the global 
community today, but also an issue that intersects with 
so many of the other challenges we continue to grapple 
with as a community of nations.
As I stand at this rostrum in the great city of New 
York,  I  am  acutely  aware  of  my  own  country’s  long 
experience — over several centuries — with emigration. 
Indeed,  on  the  newly  restored  lawn  just  outside  this 
building,  a  haunting  bronze  sculpture  by  acclaimed 
Irish  sculptor  John  Behan,  entitled  Arrival,  depicts  a 
huddled group of Irish emigrants ready to disembark in 
New York after fleeing starvation and poverty in their 
native Ireland. Our own history as a people forms the 
enduring backdrop to our foreign policy agenda. That 
part of our past is unfortunately the tragic present for 
so many.
The  origins  of  the  migration  crisis  are  complex 
and  diffuse.  Many  migrants  and  refugees  are  fleeing 
conflict and violence; many others are fleeing poverty 
and  deprivation.  The  vast  scale  and  sustained  nature 
of the movement is at times bewildering and threatens 
to  overwhelm  our  rules-based  migration  systems.  It 
confronts us with a wide array of problems to overcome 
28/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
all at the same time: the harrowing violence in Syria, 
the  barbarism  of  Da’esh,  the  collapse  of  order  within 
Libya and the practices of ruthless people-smugglers. 
The continuous poverty and inequality in many parts of 
Africa is also a significant driver of the mass movement 
of  people.  These  are  challenges  that  no  one  country 
can  resolve  alone.  These  are  challenges  that  must  all 
be tackled at the same time. These are challenges that 
require the international community of nations to work 
in close cooperation to overcome them.
it 
Ireland  is  responding  to  the  migration  crisis  in  a 
variety  of  ways.  We  have  given  priority  to  funding 
humanitarian relief. We have provided over €60 million 
in  support  of  the  Syrian  people  in  the  region,  most 
of 
through  United  Nations  organizations.  We 
have  deployed  ships  from  our  naval  service  to  the 
Mediterranean  to  assist  with  vital  search-and-rescue 
missions.  Ireland  is  participating  in  the  European 
Union programme to resettle refugees fleeing conflict. 
Here, at United Nations Headquarters, Ireland has acted 
as  a  facilitator,  together  with  Jordan,  to  deliver  the 
agreement on the New York Declaration for Refugees 
and Migrants (resolution 71/1).
I wish to take this opportunity to commend Ireland’s 
team at the United Nations, led by Ambassador David 
Donoghue,  and  our  Jordanian  colleagues,  for  their 
stalwart efforts over five months of negotiations among 
193  Member  States.  Ireland  accepted  this  leadership 
role  at  the  United  Nations  because  we  know  that  no 
country  can  by  itself  resolve  the  vast  challenges  the 
world currently faces.
In  my  address,  I  wish  to  set  out  why  I  believe  a 
multilateral approach is the only one that can work and 
why the United Nations must demonstrate its capacity 
to  really  deliver  on  solutions.  I  will  set  out  how  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  —  which 
the  United  Nations  agreed  one  year  ago  following 
a  successful  facilitation  process  shared  by  Ireland 
and  Kenya  —  have  the  capacity,  when  implemented, 
to  address  many  of  the  root  causes  of  migration,  by 
ending poverty, reducing inequality and responding to 
climate change.
Ireland is seeking election to the Security Council 
in  2020.  We  believe  that  our  values  and  principles 
and  our  steadfast  commitment  to  the  United  Nations 
will  enable  us  to  make  a  valuable  contribution  if  we 
are successful in that election. Today, I am asking for 
support from the nations that share these vital values.
Last year, the United Nations marked 70 years since 
its establishment. At that time, we in Ireland celebrated 
60 years of active membership. On the occasion of that 
important  anniversary,  two  things  were  clear:  first, 
the  global  challenges  confronting  the  United  Nations 
were  more  complex  than  ever  before,  and  secondly, 
the  United  Nations  and  the  international  community 
have the potential to respond to these challenges in a 
comprehensive  way.  We  demonstrated  this  potential 
through the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, including the SDGs, which were greatly 
significant  in  that  they  embody  commitments  by 
Member States to working across a range of issues to 
eliminate  poverty  and  achieve  sustained  development 
over the next 15 years. 
The  determined  implementation  of  the  SDGs 
will  enable  us  to  address  many  of  the  root  causes  of 
migration. Lack of economic opportunity is a substantial 
driver of migration. To provide those opportunities, the 
SDGs set out an approach that involves investment in 
health care, education, water and sanitation and other 
essential services.
As States Members of the United Nations, we are 
now  called  to  meet  our  obligation  to  implement  the 
SDGs domestically within our own borders, bilaterally 
with  our  development  partners,  and  multilaterally 
within regional and United Nations forums. Long-term 
action on underlying causes must be complemented by 
urgent steps to address the daily suffering arising from 
the refugee and migrant crisis. Ireland is committed to 
honouring  pledges  made  at  the  World  Humanitarian 
Summit in Istanbul.
We  must  collectively  ensure  that  in  addressing 
crises closer to home we do not allow the more protracted 
crises,  those  that  do  not  appear  in  the  headlines  on  a 
daily basis, to be forgotten. The United Nations has a 
central  role  in  humanitarian  action.  Ireland  strongly 
supports  the  efforts  to  reform  the  United  Nations 
system and coordination mechanisms to ensure a more 
effective response to the complex humanitarian needs 
around the world, including the protection of vulnerable 
groups in emergencies, most notably women and girls.
The  most  immediate  trigger  of  mass  migration  is 
violent conflict, which forces great numbers of people 
to  flee  their  homes  and  leave  their  communities.  The 
horrific  human  toll  of  the  grinding  conflict  in  Syria 
mounts daily, and many countries in the region and far 
16-29811
29/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
beyond are grappling with the large-scale displacement 
of people that this conflict has created.
No  two  conflicts  are  comparable.  However,  I  can 
say  that  on  my  own  island,  on  the  island  of  Ireland, 
for  many  years  we  experienced  conflict,  terrorism 
and loss of life. And with the support of a wide array 
of  stakeholders,  we  eventually  and  painstakingly 
managed  to  build  a  sustainable  peace  process.  Our 
lived  experience  of  building  peace  and  the  ongoing 
process of reconciliation on the island of Ireland mean 
that we are particularly conscious of the persistent and 
determined commitment required to overcome conflict. 
We  therefore  give  priority  to  investment  in  conflict 
prevention and post-conflict reconciliation. 
We recognize the importance of the empowerment 
of women so that they can have a visible and recognized 
role  in  the  decision-making  process.  Gender  equality 
and  women’s  empowerment  are  key  cross-cutting 
priorities  for  my  country,  Ireland.  We  are  committed 
to  strengthening  our  engagement  on  these  priorities 
during  our  membership  in  the  Commission  on  the 
Status of Women, which commences on 1 January 2017. 
Ireland  calls  for  the  implementation  of  the  conflict-
prevention and peacebuilding aspects of the three high-
level reviews of the United Nations peacekeeping and 
peacebuilding systems, which took place in 2015, and 
for  a  sustained  commitment  to  the  women  and  peace 
and security agenda.
We  in  Ireland  know  all  too  well  that  negotiating 
lasting political solutions for conflicts is often a lengthy 
task, with many stops and starts and setbacks along the 
way. Ireland welcomes and is actively participating in 
the initiative led by France to revive the stalled Middle 
East peace process, with the aim of leading ultimately 
to a negotiated two-State solution. The United Nations 
must play a central role in efforts to create the conditions 
for finding a political solution.
Six years into the horrific conflict in Syria, Ireland 
reaffirms its full support for the tireless efforts of the 
Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General  for  Syria, 
Mr.  Staffan  de  Mistura,  to  bring  about  an  end  to  the 
devastating  conflict  through  dialogue  and  diplomacy. 
We urge everybody in this Hall to play his or her part.
The  continent  of  Africa  is  of  course  the  source, 
but  also  the  host,  of  the  largest  number  of  migrants 
and  refugees,  many  of  whom  are  fleeing  war  and 
poverty.  Ireland  calls  for  a  transparent,  accountable 
and  human-rights-based  resolution  to  the  numerous 
conflicts  in  African  countries,  such  as  South  Sudan, 
Somalia, Burundi, Mali and the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo. Those conflicts are severely hampering 
sustainable development on the continent and creating 
enormous  humanitarian  burdens  for 
the  affected 
countries,  indeed  for  neighbouring  countries  as  well, 
and the wider international community.
On  a  positive  note,  Ireland  warmly  welcomes  the 
historic  peace  agreement  reached  in  Colombia  last 
month  following  five  decades  of  conflict,  four  years 
of  talks  and,  tragically,  the  killing  of  over  225,000 
people.  Each  of  these  deaths  represents  a  horrendous 
loss to their families and their loved ones and to their 
communities. We look forward to the signature of the 
final peace accord later this month, and we welcome the 
vital role played by the United Nations in monitoring 
the 
is 
committed to actively supporting the Colombian peace 
process.  We  are  pleased  to  offer  whatever  assistance 
we  can  to  the  process  of  rebuilding  the  country  after 
decades of violence, including through the sharing of 
our experience in Northern Ireland. We wish the people 
of Colombia well at this time of hope.
implementation  of 
that  process. 
Ireland 
As part of our commitment to conflict prevention 
and  resolution,  we  have  championed,  over  many  long 
years, the matter of disarmament and non-proliferation, 
which must be placed at the fore of our collective efforts 
to  prevent  or  minimize  the  impact  of  future  conflict. 
We  must  all  be  mindful  of  the  grave  humanitarian 
consequences  of  any  nuclear  detonation,  as  well  as 
the devastating impact of conventional, biological and 
chemical weapons. We have seen this year — in fact, 
we have seen this month — how a State Member of the 
United Nations can show in stark terms the reality of 
the risk of a nuclear detonation.
Ireland  wishes 
to  see  genuine  progress  on 
multilateral  nuclear  disarmament,  building  on  the 
work of the Open-ended Working Group. We are also 
concerned  at  evidence  of  harm  to  civilians  from  the 
use  of  explosive  weapons  with  wide-area  effects  and 
consequences in populated areas. The disproportionate 
gender impact of nuclear weapons and of illegal arms 
transfers  and  illicit  trafficking  in  small  arms  and 
light weapons is also a matter of great concern to us, 
as is the need to ensure greater gender balance in all 
disarmament discussions.
Effective 
responsible  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  is  an  important  means  of  preventing 
and 
30/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
forced  displacement  at  a  time  of  conflict  or  uneasy 
peace. Ireland is strongly committed to its active role 
in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations.  We  are 
proud of our unbroken record of service extending over 
almost six decades.
This  year  we  marked  100  years  since  our  own 
Easter Rising, which set Ireland on the final phase of 
our  path  to  independence,  a  highlight  of  our  ongoing 
commitment to peace, development and freedom. Our 
commemoration included a parade of our defence forces 
marching through the streets of our capital city, Dublin. 
Many of those marching proudly wore the blue berets 
of  the  United  Nations,  as  an  emblem  of  their  service 
with  this  great  Organization.  I  take  this  opportunity 
to  commend  Irish  soldiers  and  police  participating 
in  seven  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions 
around  the  world  for  their  courage,  their  bravery  and 
their sacrifice.
An  Irish  Major  General  assumed  the  role  of 
Head of Mission and Force Commander of the United 
Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon  in  July,  and  in 
November, we will assume the leadership of its Irish/
Finnish battalion. We also remain actively committed 
to the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force. I 
recently visited troops in the Golan and was very struck 
by the greater challenge of their operating environment 
today,  compared  with  that  of  when  the  mission  was 
established some years ago. I therefore urge colleagues 
in  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  that  our  troops  are 
adequately supported as they go about this important, 
challenging and often dangerous work.
In  Ireland,  service  with  the  United  Nations  is 
rightly  regarded  as  both  noble  and  important.  The 
effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations  depends  on  its 
positive  reputation  as  a  force  for  good  in  the  world. 
Therefore, it is critical that the performance, behaviour 
and reputation of troops or civilians engaged in United 
Nations  operations  be  held  to  the  highest  possible 
standard.  Sexual  exploitation  and  abuse  by  United 
Nations peacekeepers sent to conflict zones to protect 
innocent  civilians  from  harm  is  totally  unacceptable. 
Ireland calls for an end to impunity for these crimes. 
We  absolutely  commit  to  holding  our  own  troops 
fully  accountable  for  their  behaviour  when  they  are 
deployed overseas.
Human rights abuses are among the root causes of 
migration. Moreover, migrants, refugees and internally 
displaced  persons,  in  particular  women,  children  and 
vulnerable people, can also be at risk of human rights 
abuse both during their journey and on arrival at their 
destination.
Ireland is committed to defending those who defend 
the  human  rights  of  others,  including  journalists  and 
other civil-society representatives who face increasing 
restrictions and threats in many parts of the world. Our 
leadership  in  the  adoption  of  Human  Rights  Council 
resolution  32/31,  on  civil  society  space,  last  June 
enabled the international community to send a strong 
message  of  solidarity  to  those  at  risk.  Ireland  will 
always  speak  out  to  defend  minorities  who  continue 
to  suffer  persecution  because  of  religion,  belief, 
ethnicity or gender, or a host of other reasons. We will 
continue to work on the European Union resolution on 
freedom of religion or belief during this session of the 
General Assembly.
On  the  matter  of  United  Nations  reform,  I  am 
pleased  that  the  agreement  reached  on  the  SDGs  has 
showed  what  the  United  Nations  can  achieve  when 
working  at  its  best.  We  call  for  all  members  of  the 
Security  Council  —  in  particular  China,  the  United 
States of America, the Russian Federation, the United 
Kingdom  and  France  —  to  refrain  from  voting 
against credible draft resolutions on action to halt the 
commission  of  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  or 
war crimes, including conflict-related sexual violence.
the  Security  Council 
membership should be more balanced and ensure wider 
regional  representation,  particularly  with  regard  to 
Africa. The more open, transparent and inclusive process 
taking  place  this  year  to  select  the  new  Secretary-
General is a positive step in the right direction.
Ireland  believes 
that 
took 
(Nepal),  Vice-President, 
Mr.  Bhattarai 
the Chair.
We must collectively do all that we can to ensure 
that the 65 million people currently displaced, whether 
by conflict, natural disaster or oppression, are provided 
with the essential services to which they are entitled. 
We need to uphold on all occasions the values, purposes 
and  principles  of  the  United  Nations.  These  are  the 
values, purposes and principles that Ireland has stood 
up  for  throughout  our  engagement  with  the  United 
Nations regime, and which will inspire our contribution 
to the Security Council, should the membership entrust 
us with that responsibility in the 2020 election.
16-29811
31/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms.  Lilja  Dögg  Alfreðsdóttir,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Iceland.
Ms.  Alfreðsdóttir  (Iceland):  At  the  end  of  the 
nineteenth  century,  one  quarter  of  the  Icelandic 
population  emigrated  to  Canada  and  the  United 
States.  Iceland  was  one  of  the  poorest  countries  in 
Europe,  and  people  were  seeking  a  better  life  for 
themselves  and  their  families.  The  image  of  the 
struggling Icelander — crossing the ocean, seasick and 
hungry — is still embedded in the minds of our people. 
But we do know that many of our fellow countrymen 
achieved success in their new home. I truly believe that 
they have had a positive impact on their communities. 
The Icelandic migrants were not refugees. They were 
not  fleeing  war  and  disaster.  But  they  were  seeking 
safety and better lives for their families.
Today, millions of people are displaced by conflict 
and  disaster.  The  long-term  goal  of  the  international 
community  must  be  to  create  peace  where  there  is 
conflict  and  economic  opportunities  where  there  are 
none, so that countries of origin do not lose their human 
capital  and  people  can  stay  safely  in  their  homes. 
Today,  we  are  faced  with  humanitarian  crisis  and  we 
must  all  step  up  to  the  plate.  Iceland  —  a  country  of 
only 330,000 people — has contributed to addressing 
the issue, both with funding to the relevant institutions 
and  by  welcoming  a  group  of  Syrian  refugees.  In  the 
weeks to come, we are welcoming another group from 
Syria, bringing the overall number in 2016 to more than 
100. For a small country, these numbers are big — the 
equivalent of 100,000 in the United States.
The Middle East and North Africa regions remain 
in  conflict  and  crisis,  often  driven  by  injustice  and 
human  rights  failures.  The  Syrian  conflict  continues 
to  inflict  suffering  on  millions.  I  strongly  condemn 
the attack on the United Nations humanitarian convoy 
earlier this week and the new attacks on Aleppo. I also 
urge the conflicting parties, and especially the Syrian 
Government, to commit to finding a political solution. 
The  suspected  war  crimes  committed  in  this  conflict 
threaten  to  undermine  international  law  for  the  time 
to come. These war crimes must be prosecuted. Along 
with others, I praise the generosity of the neighbouring 
States — Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey — in addressing 
the issue.
It  should  be  possible  to  resolve  the  Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict,  but  actions  by  both  sides  have 
continued to undermine the negotiation of a two-State 
solution.  There  is  violence  and  provocation  on  both 
sides.  Settlement  expansion  and  the  destruction  of 
Palestinian  structures  undermine  the  basis  for  peace. 
The  Security  Council  should  take  action  to  back  the 
recommendations  of  the  Quartet  via  a  resolution.  At 
the same time, we urge the parties to foster a climate 
of tolerance.
The  sense  of  injustice  and  failure  of  governance 
is  often  at  the  root  of  other  conflicts.  The  question 
of Western Sahara remains unresolved. We urge both 
sides  to  exercise  restraint  and  to  do  their  utmost  to 
reduce tensions in line with United Nations resolutions.
Africa  and  the  Middle  East  are  the  regions  worst 
hit by terrorism and violent extremism. But no country 
is left untouched, and terrorism has returned to Europe. 
That  is  a  vivid  reminder  for  my  region  that  other 
societies may harbour individuals with beliefs that can 
be turned into justifications for violence and terrorism. 
It is a global threat of massive scope and complexity. 
We must act together as a world community. We must 
improve  United  Nations  coordination  in  dealing  with 
terrorism  and  violent  extremism.  We  must  challenge 
narratives and ideologies together and identify internal 
and external drivers of violent extremism and terrorism.
Nelson  Mandela  said,  Education  is  the  most 
powerful  weapon  which  you  can  use  to  change  the 
world.” Education is a precondition of good governance. 
If people do not know their rights or how to seek justice 
and do not understand the views of others, then building 
peaceful  and  inclusive  societies  is  very  difficult. 
Education remains a key pillar in Iceland’s development 
cooperation.  Over  the  past  70  years  Icelandic  society 
has developed from being a poor society to a modern, 
prosperous economy. We could not have done that if we 
had  not  ensured  access  for  all  to  quality  education  at 
both secondary and higher levels.
Education  shines  a  light  on  our  path  to  ensuring 
human rights for all. In one century, women have seen 
great  progress,  even  though  the  progress  is  uneven.  I 
stand here today, one of only 30 or so female Foreign 
Ministers in  the world,  as proof that we have  come  a 
long way, yet not nearly far enough. Women’s human 
rights lag severely behind in many countries, at great 
cost to women, men and society as a whole.
We have agreed that no one can be left behind. That 
includes every individual, no matter the colour of her or 
his skin, her or his disability or religion or whom she or 
32/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
he loves. If we want resilient and healthy societies, we 
must make it our business to safeguard the rights and 
interests  of  minority  groups,  including  lesbian,  gay, 
bisexual and transgender groups.
sustainable geothermal energy, sustainable management 
of  the  oceans  and  combating  desertification.  We  will 
continue  to  make  a  contribution  in  those  areas  of 
Icelandic expertise.
The  United  Nations  is  the  heart  and  soul  of  all 
international efforts. It is our responsibility to safeguard 
the  Organization  and  ensure  that  it  is  ready  for  the 
challenges  ahead.  The  new  approach  for  appointing 
the  Secretary-General  raises  the  profile  and  standing 
of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  a  major  milestone  to  see 
such a strong field of women candidates. I would like 
to  pay  tribute  to  the  former  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  Mr.  Lykketoft,  for  his  efforts  to  make  the 
new approach work. It is now for the Security Council 
to  propose  to  the  General  Assembly  a  candidate  who 
has  wide  support,  credibility  and  respect.  I  hope  we 
will succeed in finding her or him.
We  have  set  our  sights  high  for  the  future  of  our 
planet. We have set goals to address climate change. We 
have mapped out a course to sustainable development 
that is universal, leaves no one behind and preserves our 
planet. The rules and objectives have been agreed — a 
major achievement. Now we have to implement them. 
With political will, knowledge-sharing and innovation, 
I am confident that we will succeed.
A  large  number  of  States  have  already  ratified 
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, thus paving 
the  way  for  its  early  entry  into  force.  In  particular,  I 
welcome  the  leadership  shown  by  the  United  States 
of America and China. And I am proud to inform the 
Assembly  that  I  handed  over  Iceland’s  instrument  of 
ratification earlier this week.
The  world’s  common  road  map  to  sustainable 
development  —  the  2030  Agenda  —  should  be  taped 
to  the  wall  of  every  planning  ministry.  The  Icelandic 
Government  is  keenly  aware  that  the  Agenda  needs 
to  concern  every  one  of  us.  The  Agenda  presents 
challenges and opportunities to government, business 
and civil society in every country.
In  Iceland  we  want  to  be  sure  of  reaching  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  on  time.  W 
are therefore setting up the structures and identifying 
the  gaps  to  help  us  do  that.  Iceland  aims  to  present 
its  own  national  review  in  two  years.  Sharing  ideas 
and knowledge will be a key element of our common 
success.  For  many  years,  Iceland  has  hosted  United 
Nations University training programmes in four areas 
of importance to our agenda, namely, gender equality, 
Twenty-two  years  ago  I  lived  in  South  Korea.  To 
my surprise, I saw many similarities between Iceland 
and  South  Korea.  Both  countries  rose  from  poverty 
to  prosperity  in  only  a  few  decades,  and  both  gained 
independence  in  the  1940.  And  both  are  democracies 
and base their economic welfare on market economics.
In contrast, the people of North Korea still live in 
poverty, with a gross domestic product per capita equal 
to only 5 per cent of that of their cousins to the south. 
They experience higher infant mortality and lower life 
expectancy  than  their  cousins,  and  even  starvation. 
Severe  human  rights  violations  are  committed  by  a 
dictatorship  Government.  It  is  shocking  to  see  how 
the  Government  of  North  Korea  continues  its  illegal 
pursuit  of  nuclear  weapons,  thereby  risking  not  only 
the security of its own people and the entire region but 
also international security. Iceland strongly condemns 
North  Korea’s  nuclear  testing,  which  is  in  breach  of 
universally accepted norms and international law.
As  politicians  we  bear  a  heavy  responsibility  to 
govern  to  the  best  of  our  ability  and  in  the  interests 
of  all  people.  Good  governance  is  outlined  in  a  key 
global goal. In many ways, it is the keystone of the 2030 
Agenda.
While  each  nation  is  sovereign,  none  of  us  is 
isolated  from  the  world  or  world  events.  Yet  we 
have  seen  powerful  countries  breach  fundamental 
principles of international law by invading other States. 
International law is key to cross-country relations and 
the  integrity  of  our  global  system.  For  a  small  and 
peaceful  country  like  mine,  international  law  is  our 
sword, shield and shelter.
In 2006 nobody had heard of iPhones or tablets or 
apps,  there  were  no  apple  slices  at  McDonald’s,  and 
Segways  were  seen  only  in  science  fiction  movies. 
But  2006  brought  two  things  that  everyone  in  this 
building  seems  to  love,  namely,  Twitter  and  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon,  who  is  stepping  down  after  10  successful 
years  as  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations. 
During those years we have seen tremendous change. 
His  personal  commitment  to  fighting  climate  change 
has  been  a  key  factor  in  our  reaching  agreement.  He 
has laid the groundwork for reforming United Nations 
peacekeeping  operations.  And  he  has  shown  strong 
16-29811
33/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
leadership  on  gender  issues.  On  behalf  of  Iceland, 
I  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
extraordinary contribution as Secretary-General.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Sirodjidin  Aslov,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the Republic of Tajikistan.
Mr. Aslov (Tajikistan): It gives me a great pleasure 
to join the cordial congratulations on the well-deserved 
election of the President of the General Assembly at its 
seventy-first session. We are confident that his wisdom, 
diplomatic  experience  and  skill  will  contribute  to  the 
success of the current session, and my delegation would 
like to assure him of its full cooperation to that end. I 
would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  commend 
his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, 
for his able leadership during the previous session.
I  also  avail  myself  of  this  opportunity  to  express 
our  sincere  appreciation  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations, for 
his tireless efforts during his two terms in promoting 
global peace and security, development and well-being 
for all peoples of the world. His competent and effective 
leadership  has  been  a  positive  force  in  reforming  the 
Secretariat,  easing  crises  and  disputes,  addressing 
current  and  emerging  challenges  and  elaborating  a 
new  agenda  on  sustainable  development  and  climate 
change. For all of those efforts, I would like to convey 
the  sincere  gratitude  of  the  people  of  the  Republic 
of Tajikistan.
The  year  2015  was  momentous  because  of  the 
adoption  of  a  number  of  key  documents  aimed  at 
strengthening  the  global  development  agenda.  Those 
documents  are  interrelated  and  will  define  the  path 
of  our  development  in  the  coming  decades.  However, 
we  have  been  less  successful  in  addressing  issues 
affecting  international  peace  and  security.  Armed 
conflicts continue to pose a growing threat in various 
regions of the world. Destructive and inhumane forces 
of  terrorism  and  extremism  have  been  gaining  power 
by attracting into their orbits ever-increasing numbers 
of  youth,  thereby  seriously  undermining  efforts  to 
maintain security and peaceful development.
Combating international terrorism and extremism 
has become a top priority. There is a need to develop 
national, 
international  mechanisms 
aimed at eliminating military infrastructure, channels 
for  financial  and  logistical  support,  recruitment  and 
violent propaganda, including counteracting the use of 
regional  and 
modern Internet and computer technology for terrorism 
purposes. Moreover, it is essential that we jointly seek 
ways  of  addressing  the  issue  of  poverty,  the  negative 
impact  of  globalization,  and  conflict  prevention 
and  settlement.  There  is  also  a  need  to  strengthen 
intercultural and interfaith dialogue, mutual trust and 
tolerance. In that context, the United Nations remains 
the key platform for achieving consensus on the main 
issues  of 
international  security  and  development 
and  for  coordinating  joint  action  by  the  international 
community  in  addressing  the  challenges  and  threats 
of today.
Eliminating  illicit  drug  trafficking,  which  has 
become a breeding ground for terrorism and organized 
crime,  requires  the  joint  and  concerted  actions  of 
the  entire  international  community.  We  believe  that 
the  fight  against  drug  trafficking  is  an  essential 
part  of  the  fight  against  organized  crime,  terrorism 
and  extremism,  and  we  reaffirm  that  international 
cooperation  on  drug  control  will  remain  a  priority 
of  the  Government  of  Tajikistan.  The  special  session 
of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  world  drug  problem, 
held in April 2016, provided a unique opportunity for 
seeking  new  and  additional  ways  of  strengthening 
cooperation  in  combating  the  root  causes  of  the  drug 
problem and dealing with its consequences. During its 
membership  on  the  Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs, 
Tajikistan  will  continue  its  cooperation  with  donor 
countries and international organizations, including the 
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, in order to 
implement the outcome document of the special session 
resolution S-30/1, annex).
Tajikistan  stands  for  a  comprehensive  settlement 
of the crises in the Middle East, which will contribute 
to  enhancing  global  security.  We  therefore  support 
international and regional efforts aimed at restoring and 
strengthening  peace  and  stability  in  the  Middle  East, 
including the efforts to resume and accelerate credible 
negotiations under the Middle East peace process.
Tajikistan  supports 
the 
to 
international  strategy 
for  a  comprehensive  settlement  and  post-conflict 
reconstruction in Afghanistan. We need to strengthen 
our  support 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan, 
especially 
transformation 
decade  2015-2024.  It  is  important  for  Afghanistan  to 
become involved in the process of regional integration 
by  strengthening  its  economic  and  trade  ties  with  its 
neighbouring  countries.  We  call  for  the  expansion  of 
targeted assistance to Afghanistan aimed at economic 
during  Afghanistan’s 
34/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
rehabilitation, the strengthening of its social conditions 
and  the  creation  of  new  jobs  in  its  economy.  We  are 
ready  to  take  part  in  rehabilitating  the  social  and 
economic infrastructure of Afghanistan by connecting 
the  transport  arteries  of  our  two  countrie  by  creating 
an energy bridge known as CASA-1000, and providing 
the Afghan population with essential commodities and 
training for specialists.
We  are  at  the  beginning  of  a  transformation 
process  that  started  with  the  setting  of  a  new  agenda 
that reflects the hopes and desires of every one of us for 
a decent and secure future. It is obvious that the path 
to  sustainable  development  will  be  neither  easy  nor 
smooth. At the same time, our political will should be 
reinforced by adequate means of implementation. There 
is  a  need  to  mobilize  additional  financial  resources, 
including  official  development  assistance,  which  is 
the main component in financing development. Under 
the  current  circumstances,  it  is  essential  to  revitalize 
international  trade  and  investments,  which  are  the 
main  engines  of  productive  growth,  and  encourage 
and  promote  transfers  of  innovative  and  ecologically 
sound technologies.
The  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  also 
requires clear and transparent mechanisms to follow up 
and review both progress and problems. As a new and 
first-time member of the Economic and Social Council, 
Tajikistan  is  willing  to  do  its  part  in  strengthening 
and  coordinating  the  efforts  to  address  the  complex 
issues  of  achieving  sustainable  development.  In  our 
endeavours  to  achieve  sustainable  development,  we 
need to remember our collective determination to lend 
a hand to countries that are confronted with difficulties. 
We need to remember that a number of countries will 
begin their implementation of the new 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  in  unfavourable  conditions. 
In  particular,  there  is  a  need  to  provide  support  to 
countries  in  special  situations,  especially  the  least 
developed  countries,  landlocked  developing  countries 
and small island developing States.
Access to modern and cost-efficient energy services 
is key to achieving sustainable development. Tajikistan 
actively  supports  the  Secretary-General’s  Sustainable 
Energy for All initiative and the United Nations 2014-
2024 Decade of Sustainable Energy for All.
I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the  2030  Agenda 
regards  water  as  the  most  essential  element  of  life 
and  the  main  component  of  development.  That  is  a 
positive shift, which makes the new water agenda more 
comprehensive and integrated by comparison with the 
previous water agenda, framed within the Millennium 
Development Goals. In that regard, we should take into 
consideration  the  fact  that  climate  change,  as  well  as 
the  processes  of  urbanization  and  population  growth, 
will  certainly  exacerbate  any  challenges.  In  addition, 
as a result of climate change, water shortages in many 
parts of the world will increase owing, first of all, to 
a reduction in the scale of glaciers and the snowpack. 
For  instance,  in  Tajikistan  during  the  past  35  to  40 
years  more  than  1,000  massive  glaciers  out  of  a  total 
of  13,000  have  melted  completely.  That  melting  of 
glaciers  and  ice  caps  has  caused  increased  frequency 
and intensity of natural disasters and the deterioration 
of  ecosystems,  which  have  translated  to  significant 
financial and material losses for the national economy 
and, unfortunately, have caused human casualties.
Nevertheless, the new water agenda is achievable. 
that  significant  progress  can 
We  have  observed 
be  made  when  countries  and  regions  commit  to 
prioritizing  water  challenges.  What  is  clear  is  that 
countries and the international community as a whole 
must work together and undertake coordinated efforts 
and adopt both urgent and long-term measures. That is 
particularly true when water is shared among various 
sectors  —  health,  agriculture,  energy  and  navigation, 
for  example  —  or  when  surface  and  groundwater  are 
shared among communities and between countries. 
Those  were  among  the  issues  related  to  the 
implementation  of  the  global  water  agenda  discussed 
at  the  High-level  Symposium  on  SDG  6  and  Targets: 
Ensuring that No One Is Left Behind in Access to Water 
and Sanitation, held in Dushanbe on 9 and 10 August 
and jointly organized by the Government of Tajikistan, 
the  United  Nations  Department  of  Economic  and 
Social  Affairs  and  various  United  Nations  agencies. 
The  Symposium  provided  a  platform  for  a  balanced 
discussion of policy measures, actions and the means 
to  fast-track  the  implementation  of  the  water-related 
SDGs  and  targets.  It  adopted  a  call  for  action  that 
invites  the  international  community  to  deepen  its 
cooperation  at  all  levels  to  address  emerging  water 
issues, to improve capacity in the implementation and 
monitoring of integrated water resources management 
and  to  support  an  International  Decade  for  Action 
“Water for Sustainable Development”, 2018-2028.
I  would  like  to  express  our  sincere  gratitude  to 
all Member States for their active participation in the 
16-29811
35/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
Symposium. I hope that the members of the Assembly 
will  also  support  the  proposed  International  Decade, 
which  will  strengthen  and  enhance  the  progress 
achieved during the previous International Decade for 
Action, “Water for Life”, 2005-2015, and will create a 
solid platform for the consolidation of our efforts aimed 
at  the  sustainable  management  of  water  resources 
in  the  post-2015  period.  The  proposed  International 
Decade  will  complement  other  initiated  mechanisms, 
notably  the  High-level  Panel  on  2030  Global  Water 
Architecture, and it can serve to fill any gaps that may 
arise  in  the  implementation  of  new  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Prakash Sharan Mahat, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal.
(Nepal): 
I  wish 
Mr.  Mahat 
to  begin  by 
congratulating  the  President  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency of the General Assembly at the seventy-first 
session.  I  wish  to  assure  him  of  my  delegation’s  full 
support  in  the  successful  discharge  of  his  important 
responsibilities. I also want to commend the outgoing 
President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  for 
his effective leadership at the seventieth session.
I  wish  to  place  on  record  Nepal’s  admiration 
of  His  Excellency  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  the  dedication  with  which  he  served  this  world 
Organization for the past 10 years. We wish him well 
for the future.
Exactly  six  decades  ago,  at  the  eleventh  session 
of the General Assembly, Nepal first spoke as a newly 
admitted  Member.  Now,  60  years  down  the  road,  our 
commitment  to  the  United  Nations  has  become  even 
stronger.  The  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  remain  at  the  core  of  Nepal’s  foreign  policy. 
As  much  as  the  United  Nations  has  contributed  to 
our  development  endeavours,  and  lately  to  the  peace 
process,  Nepal  has  significantly  contributed  to  the 
United Nations in fulfilling its primary responsibility 
of maintaining international peace and security.
It has been a year since we adopted the universal 
and 
transformative  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  with  the  objective  of  leaving  no  one 
behind. After one year, it is clear now that much more 
needs to be done to move from commitments to results. 
Let me stress the fact that the secure foundation of world 
peace rests on the well-being of the peoples across the 
globe. Poverty reduction and sustainable development 
therefore 
inseparable.  We  cannot 
are 
imagine  a 
peaceful, prosperous and secure society when millions 
of people live in poverty. I therefore urge all Member 
States  and  our  development  partners  to  move  beyond 
rhetoric and commence concrete actions without losing 
time, energy or zeal.
 It is also evident that the Sustainable Development 
Goals  (SDGs)  cannot  be  realized  unless  sound 
development policies and frameworks are supported by 
a capable institutional framework, adequate resources 
and  innovative  methods  of  implementation.  As  much 
as  national  commitment,  ownership,  leadership  and 
people-centric governance are critical in the domestic 
context,  robust  international  partnerships  are  equally 
important to ensure the success of the SDGs. We would 
like to see progress in terms of the principal components 
of the resource base — official development assistance, 
trade,  foreign  direct  investment,  technology  and  debt 
relief  —  to  ensure  the  smooth  implementation  of  the 
2030 Agenda.
Nepal’s  commitment  to  the  SDGs  is  informed  by 
its  success  in  reaching  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  Amid  multiple  challenges,  Nepal’s 
performance in that respect was impressive. We were 
able to halve the proportion of people living in poverty 
and  to  significantly  reduce  the  maternal  and  infant 
mortality  rates.  We  were  able  to  send  more  children 
to  school  and  keep  them  in  school.  The  enrolment  of 
girls in schools was substantially increased. The 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development is now part of our 
national development plans and programmes and will 
be implemented with the utmost priority.
The vision for a safer world continues to elude us. New 
sources of threats to humankind have emerged, while 
the  traditional  sources  of  threats  have  simultaneously 
become  more  pronounced.  The  forms  and  intensity 
of  non-traditional  threats  to  security  —  terrorism, 
transnational  crimes,  ethnic 
intra-State 
conflicts  and  violent  extremism  —  have  multiplied. 
The  abuse  by  criminal  actors  of  innovations  in 
information and communications technology has added 
to  social  vulnerability.  We  underline  the  central  role 
of the General Assembly and the Security Council in 
addressing such threats and challenges.
tensions, 
The increasing terrorist activity in our own region 
and in many parts of the world is a matter of serious 
concern  for  all  of  us.  Terrorism  is  a  serious  threat 
to  the  human  goal  of  living  in  harmony,  peace  and 
36/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
dignity.  Nepal  condemns  terrorism  in  all  its  forms 
and  manifestations.  The  failure  of  the  international 
community to agree on a comprehensive convention on 
international  terrorism  is  highly  frustrating.  We  call 
upon the international community to muster the much-
needed political will to accomplish this agenda.
To  create  a  secure  world  we  must  adopt  a  two-
track  approach.  We  must  deal  with  emerging  threats 
resolutely, firmly and collectively. On a much broader 
scale,  we  also  need  to  nurture  a  culture  of  peace. 
As  the  birthplace  of  Lord  Buddha,  Nepal  believes 
that  meaningful  exchanges  and  dialogues  among 
civilizations will help instil positive values, which will 
contribute to eventual world peace.
We  would  like  to  see  an  early  resolution  of  the 
conflict  in  Syria.  The  suffering  of  the  Syrian  people 
must  now  come  to  an  end.  Nepal  supports  the  call 
for  a  just,  lasting  and  comprehensive  peace  in  the 
Middle  East.  We  recognize  the  legitimate  right  of 
the  Palestinian  people  to  an  independent  State,  based 
on  United  Nations  resolutions,  and  the  right  of  every 
nation in the region to live in peace, within secure and 
recognized international boundaries.
Nepal  stands  for  the  complete  and  time-bound 
disarmament  of  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
including nuclear ones.An environment must be created 
in  which  development  dividends  can  be  released  by 
disarmament  and  redirected  towards  productive  use. 
The  global  community,  especially  the  nuclear  States, 
must make a determined effort to move forward from 
the stalled negotiations on disarmament. We believe that 
all efforts to bring about disarmament must be pursued 
in  good  faith  and  in  full  compliance  with  the  agreed 
international regimes. Based on our principled position, 
Nepal  hosts  the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre  for 
Peace  and  Disarmament  in  Asia  and  the  Pacific.  We 
invite Member States and partners to support and fully 
utilize the Centre to promote dialogue on disarmament, 
thereby enhancing the Kathmandu process.
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  are 
an  important  innovation  of  the  United  Nations  and 
are  dedicated  to  the  service  of  humankind.  Nepal’s 
engagement  in  peacekeeping  operations,  started  just 
three  years  after  joining  the  United  Nations,  speaks 
volumes  about  our  unflinching  commitment  to  the 
cause of international peace and security. We feel proud 
to be part of that flagship contribution. Our troops have 
served  in  various  challenging  peacekeeping  missions 
with  a  high  degree  of  professionalism,  commitment 
and devotion. That has helped them earn international 
acclaim.  Seventy-three  of  our  fellow  countrymen 
have  sacrificed  their  lives  in  the  line  of  duty  to  the 
supreme  cause  of  peace.  We  remain  steadfast  in  our 
commitment to fulfil our obligations and are prepared 
to  provide  additional  troops  and  civilians  to  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations.  That  is  because 
we  have  a  strong  conviction  that  the  success  of  the 
United  Nations  largely  hinges  on  the  success  of  its 
peacekeeping operations.
However, we also believe that for the peacekeeping 
missions  to  be  successful,  there  must  be  unity  of 
purpose in mobilizing all of the political capital of the 
Security  Council.  We  must  establish  clearly  defined 
mandates and operational modalities, provide adequate 
resource  back-up,  ensure  the  safety  and  security  of 
personnel,  arrange  regular  consultations  and  greater 
collaboration  with  the  troop-contributing  countries 
and  devise  clear  exit  strategies.We  also  believe  that 
peacekeeping  alone  cannot  guarantee  durable  peace 
in  societies.  It  should  be  complemented  by  proper 
and  clearly  defined  peacebuilding  strategies  led  and 
owned  by  the  people  and  societies  themselves.  We 
would also like to underline that all troop-contributing 
countries  must  be  afforded  fair  opportunities  to 
serve  in  leadership  positions,  both  in  the  field  and  at 
Headquarters, commensurate with the level and length 
of their contributions.
We  are  satisfied  that  human  rights  values  have 
now  become  truly  global.  Human  rights  must  not  be 
used  as  a  tool  to  serve  hidden  political  interests.  All 
human rights, including the right to development, must 
receive  equal  priority  and  be  pursued  even-handedly. 
The  salient  features  of  non-selectivity,  universality, 
indivisibility  and  objectivity  must  be  upheld  in  all 
circumstances.  The  sanctity  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  the  innovative  universal  periodic  review 
mechanism  must  be  maintained  to  ensure  the  full 
ownership of human rights.
Nepal’s  commitment 
rights  and 
fundamental freedoms is total and unwavering. We are 
party  to  most  of  the  core  international  human  rights 
instruments,  which  have  found  eloquent  expression 
in  Nepal’s  newly  promulgated  Constitution.  The 
new  Constitution  of  Nepal,  which  was  the  result  of 
eight  years  of  deliberation  that  ensured  participatory, 
transparent  and 
includes  an 
impressive list of human rights and provides adequate 
to  human 
inclusive  processes, 
16-29811
37/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
remedial  measures.  Nepal  has  abolished  the  death 
penalty and is a party to the first Optional Protocol to 
the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. 
It  has  put  in  place  the  necessary  legal,  institutional 
and  administrative  measures  for  the  realization  of  all 
human rights.
The National Human Rights Commission and other 
independent  constitutional  bodies  were  established 
with  the  sole  objective  of  protecting  and  promoting 
human  rights  in  all  spheres  of  national  life.  Nepal’s 
homegrown  peace  process  recognizes 
transitional 
justice  as  its  key  component.  The  Commission  on 
Investigation  of  Disappeared  Persons  and  the  Truth 
and Reconciliation Commission are carrying out their 
mandates  in  an  independent  and  impartial  manner. 
The  Government  is  committed  to  taking  appropriate 
measures to address the issues surrounding the process 
of  transitional  justice  in  line  with  our  international 
commitment  and  the  ground  realities  of  establishing 
sustained peace.
Nepal  has  been  working  closely  with  the  Human 
Rights  Council  with  all  sincerity  and  commitment. 
Informed by our experience of protecting and promoting 
of human rights and our sincere desire to contribute to 
the work of the Human Rights Council, we are seeking 
membership  on  the  Council  for  the  term  beginning 
2018. It is the first time we have filed our candidature. 
We request the support of all fellow Member States for 
our candidature.
Migration  has  become  a  defining  phenomenon 
of  the  contemporary  world.  The  global  movement 
of  people  has  brought  benefits  and  challenges.  The 
proper  management  of  migration  can  contribute  to 
the  economic  growth  and  development  of  both  the 
destination and the origin countries of migrant workers.
The welfare and the protection of the rights of migrant 
workers must therefore receive priority in the countries 
in  which  they  work.  As  the  source  country  of  over 
3  million  migrant  workers,  Nepal  calls  for  concerted 
efforts at the national, regional and international levels 
to  ensure  that  the  process  creates  a  fair  and  win-win 
situation for all.
Despite not being a party to the 1951 Convention 
relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol, 
Nepal  has  long  hosted  refugees  on  humanitarian 
grounds.  International  burden-sharing  has  greatly 
helped  to  lessen  the  burden  host  countries  face. 
However,  the  right  of  refugees  to  return  to  their 
homeland in safety and dignity must always be upheld 
in all circumstances.
the 
While globalization has created many opportunities, 
the benefits which countries have reaped from it have 
been  uneven.  The  constraints  on  countries  in  special 
circumstances,  particularly 
least  developed 
countries  and  landlocked  developing  countries,  are 
real.  That  is  why  international  financial,  trading  and 
monetary  systems  must  be  responsive  to  their  needs 
and concerns. Robust implementation of internationally 
agreed commitments, including those contained in the 
Istanbul Programme of Action, the Vienna Programme 
of  Action,  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  and  the 
Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction,  are 
critically important to enable those countries to emerge 
from  the  states  of  poverty  and  underdevelopment 
they  are  experiencing.  Delay  in  the  conclusion  of  the 
Doha Round of trade negotiations is a huge setback; it 
is  denying  countries  many  development  dividends  of 
trade  and  hampering  the  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
As  to  climate  change,  Nepal,  as  a  Himalayan 
country, faces challenges in the form of melting glaciers 
and  flash  floods  from  glacial-lake  outbursts.  We 
believe  that  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change, 
adopted  last  year,  reflects  a  rare  commitment  by  the 
international  community  to  making  a  difference.  We 
support its early entry into force. Nepal also believes 
that climate justice based on the principle of common 
but  differentiated  responsibilities  should  be  at  the 
centre of its implementation. Special attention must be 
given to the climate-vulnerable countries, particularly 
mountainous countries, as regards providing resources 
and transferring technology for capacity-building and 
adaptation.  Our  efforts  must  recognize  the  intrinsic 
connection  between  poverty  reduction,  sustainable 
development and environmental protection.
We  must  acknowledge  that  the  United  Nations 
system has a leading role to play in global governance. 
Equal emphasis must be laid on all three pillars of the 
United Nations: development, peace and security, and 
human rights. The reform of the United Nations must 
reflect  the  vastly  transformed  political  reality  of  the 
twenty-first century. Our vision for sustainable peace 
and  a  just  world  order  cannot  be  realized  without  a 
comprehensive reform of the United Nations, including 
reform of the Security Council. Nepal strongly believes 
in  a  more  representative,  inclusive  and  accountable 
United Nations.
38/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
In  recent  years  Nepal  has  undergone  a  political 
transformation of historic proportions. The decade-long 
armed  conflict  was  finally  converted  into  a  peace 
process with the signing of the Comprehensive Peace 
Accord  in  2006.  Commitment  to  democratic  norms 
and values was the central thrust of the peace process, 
which led to the holding of the first-ever elections for 
the Constituent Assembly. Arms management and the 
integration of combatants was successfully carried out 
as part of the peace process. With the promulgation of 
the democratic Constitution on 20 September last year, 
the peace process basically came to a close.
Nepal’s homegrown peace process and its success 
may provide a good model for countries transitioning 
from  conflict  to  peace.  The  promulgation  of  our 
Constitution  represents  a  turning  point  in  Nepal’s 
constitutional  and  political  history.  Among  other 
things, 
institutionalize 
inclusive  and  democratic  polity,  pluralism,  the  rule 
of  law,    representative  and  accountable  government, 
social  and  economic  justice  and  universally  accepted 
human rights.
the  Constitution  aims 
to 
Equality  is  at  the  core  of  the  Constitution.  Equal 
opportunity  and  protection  are  guaranteed  to  every 
citizen.  Discrimination  on  any  ground  is  prohibited. 
The State is obliged to take special measures to protect 
the most marginalized and underrepresented sections of 
society and ensure their well-being. Our Constitution is 
not a rigid document, but rather a living and dynamic 
one that is capable of addressing any remaining or new 
issues within its framework. The two amendments that 
were  made  within  months  of  its  promulgation  amply 
prove this.
We  are  currently  engaged 
in  dialogue  with 
concerned  political  parties  to  find  an  acceptable 
solution to some of the issues where differences persist. 
The  Constitution  guarantees  equal  participation  and 
incorporates the principle of proportional representation 
of  women,  indigenous  nationalities,  Madhesis,  Dalits 
and  other  marginalized  groups  in  elective  bodies  and 
other organs of the State structure. Nepal has a strong 
commitment to gender equality and the empowerment 
of  women.  Women  are  guaranteed  a  minimum  of 
one  third  representation  in  the  federal  and  provincial 
parliaments, and 40 per cent in local government. I am 
proud to inform the General Assembly that in Nepal the 
Head of State, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court 
and the Speaker of the Parliament are all women.
We have entered a crucial phase in implementing 
our  Constitution  in  Nepal.  Our  ultimate  goal  is  to 
consolidate  peace  and  stability  and  bring  about 
prosperity  in  the  country.  Inclusive  economic  growth 
and development are important to sustain political gains. 
The Constitution provides a framework to pursue those 
objectives.  Democratic  elections  for  all  three  tiers  of 
the federal system must be completed by February 2018. 
That is a huge task, but we are determined to carry it 
out successfully, thereby helping to institutionalize the 
federal democratic system of governance, as promised 
by the Constitution. Further tasks include addressing the 
outstanding issues of the peace process, reconstructing 
and rebuilding earthquake-ravaged areas and achieving 
inclusive  prosperity  and  development;  they  constitute 
our top priorities.
As we embark upon the effective implementation of 
the Constitution and undertake the vital process of the 
socioeconomic transformation of Nepal, the goodwill, 
solidarity and support of the international community 
become all the more important. We are confident that 
our friends in the international community will stand 
by us in our efforts to build a strong foundation for a 
peaceful, stable, democratic and prosperous Nepal.
However, 
challenges. 
The  United  Nations  today  is  confronted  with 
unprecedented 
unique 
opportunities  also  exist  —  and  can  be  seized  to 
transform the world into a peaceful place in which to 
live.  We  have  the  capacity,  resources  and  technology 
to  address  the  challenges  and  ensure  prosperity  and 
dignity for everyone. But we must muster the necessary 
political  will  to  achieve  that.  Let  us  make  a  solemn 
commitment here in the Hall of the General Assembly 
that the world of tomorrow will be different from that of 
today. We want the history of the twenty-first century 
to  unfold  not  as  a  history  of  conflict,  strife,  poverty, 
hunger and indignation, but as a history of prosperity, 
peace, development and partnership.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Jеаn-Claude Gakosso, Minister for Foreign Affairs, 
Cooperation  and  Congolese  Nationals  Abroad  of  the 
Congo. 
Mr. Gakosso (Congo) (spoke in French): Allow me, 
at  the  outset,  to  convey  my  sincerest  congratulations 
to  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  on  his  election  as  President  of 
the General Assembly at its seventy-first session. The 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  as  one  of  the  Vice-Presidents 
16-29811
39/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
who will help to lighten his burden during the session, 
is fully committed to his success.
I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  pay 
heartfelt  tribute  to  Mr.  Ban  Ki-Moon,  who  is  coming 
to the end of his term of office as Secretary-General. 
Thanks to his leadership, he has been able to mobilize 
world leaders and all actors on the international stage 
around the great global challenges of our time. He has 
laid the foundation for the reform of the Organization 
and created conditions conduciveto its fully undertaking 
its historic mission in global governance.
The  Republic  of  the  Congo  welcomes  the  work 
accomplished  by  the  outgoing  President,  Mr.  Mogens 
Lykketoft, whose wisdom and foresight facilitated the 
unanimous adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development. The Agenda heralds the historic advent 
of a new era of sustainable development.
I  would  like  to  remind  the  Assembly  that  the 
Government  of  my  country  expended  considerable 
resources  on  the  implementation  of  the  Millenium 
Development Goals. We now seek to build our future 
on  these  beginnings  and  continue  our  commitment 
by  achieving  the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
the ultimate aim being to guarantee the welfare of the 
Congolese people. 
However,  the  efforts  of  our  Government  today 
require  the  support  of  the  international  community, 
specifically through financial mechanisms such as the 
Green  Climate  Fund,  the  Blue  Fund,  the  Adaptation 
Fund and the Green Economy Fund in Central Africa. 
I can assure the Assembly that the Government of my 
country  will  invest  all  available  resources  and  spare 
no  effort  to  ensure  that  all  Congolese  people  live  in 
dignity  and  that  no  one  is  left  behind.  Such  was  the 
commitment undertaken by my country in adopting the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The  Republic  of  the  Congo  appreciates  the  value 
and  significance  of  the  decision  at  the  Group  of  20 
(G-20)  Summit  held  recently  in  Hangzhou,  China,  to 
support the industrialization of developing countries, in 
particular in Africa, where this is greatly needed. This 
timely decision reassures us of the commitment of the 
G-20 countries with a view to implementing Sustainable 
Development  Goal  17  in  its  target  of  revitalizing  the 
global  partnership  for  sustainable  development.  We 
fail  to  see  how  Africa  can  develop  sustainably  and 
modernize  without  first  undergoing  industrialization. 
We  know  that  industrialization  is  contingent  upon  an 
energy supply, and it is for that reason that the Republic 
of the Congo fully supports the electrification plans for 
the  continent  that  are  currently  being  discussed.  We 
trust that this is not a pious hope.
Five  years  ago,  we  all  welcomed  the  birth  of  the 
youngest  nation  of  this  world,  that  is,  the  Republic 
of  South  Sudan.  Unfortunately,  two  years  after  its 
independence this country was plunged into seemingly 
endless fratricidal conflicts, for which its civilians have 
paid  a  heavy  price.  From  this  rostrum,  we  encourage 
all  stakeholders  in  that  conflict  to  demonstrate  their 
political will and perseverance by committing in good 
faith  to  the  implementation  of  the  peace  agreement 
signed  in  August  2015  in  Addis  Ababa.  The  severity 
of  the  situation  in  South  Sudan  today  requires  the 
rapid deployment of a regional protection force under 
a  Security  Council  mandate.  Such  deployment  is 
imperative in all respects, for the time has come to end 
this intolerable bloodbath that risks compromising the 
future of this young nation forever. Equally imperative 
is the need to build a climate of trust among the various 
protagonists  to  the  conflict  in  order  to  ensure  that 
national reconciliation can indeed be achieved.
Just  yesterday  the  Central  African  Republic  fell 
prey  to  a  grave  crisis.  Today,  thanks  to  international 
solidarity and the commitment of the United Nations, 
the  European  Union,  France,  the  United  States  and 
members  of  the  Economic  Community  of  Central 
African  States,  that  country  was  able  to  successfully 
manage  a  political  transition,  which  concluded  with 
presidential  elections,  thereby  paving  the  way  for  a 
better  future  with  collective  hope.  The  Republic  of 
the  Congo  welcomes  that  accomplishment,  which 
is  an  expression  of  the  will  of  a  people  determined 
to  rid  themselves  of  their  old  demons  and  to  restore 
peace  and  stability  after  several  years  of  chaos.  The 
Republic  of  the  Congo  encourages  the  efforts  for 
peace, reconciliation and reconstruction that President 
Faustin  Archange  Touadera  and  his  Government 
are  undertaking  with  courage  and  self-sacrifice.  My 
country  reiterates  here  —  just  as  it  did  at  the  ninth 
meeting  of  the  International  Contact  Group  on  the 
Central African Republic, held recently in Bangui - our 
support  for,  and  solidarity  with,  our  brother  country 
within  the  framework  of  both  the  Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African 
Republic and the International Support Group.
We cannot but deplore the tragic events that have 
for nearly a week now shaken Kinshasa and plunged the 
40/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
brother  people  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Congo 
into mourning. As the Secretary-General did a few days 
ago, we invite our Congolese brothers to seek peaceful 
solutions  through  an  inclusive  dialogue  in  a  spirit  of 
mutual tolerance.
The post-electoral crisis in Gabon has engendered 
acts of violence that continue to be a source of concern 
for us all. We very much hope that the brother people 
of  that  country  will  draw  on  that  Bantu  wisdom  we 
share with them in order to emerge reconciled from that 
difficult ordeal.
the  recent 
I  could  not  conclude  my  statement  without 
mentioning 
institutional  developments 
that  my  own  country  has  undergone  following  the 
referendum held on 25 October 2015. The referendum 
led to the adoption of a new Constitution, better adapted 
to the requirements of a law-abiding State in its most 
widely  accepted  form.  We  now  have  a  Constitution 
that  strengthens  the  principle  of  the  separation  of 
powers,  enshrines  the  independence  of  the  judiciary, 
abolishes  the  death  penalty,  affirms  the  equality  of 
men  and  women,  recognizes  the  fundamental  rights 
of  our  indigenous  peoples  and  lays  the  groundwork 
for a participatory democracy. We have a Constitution 
that, alongside our national human rights commission, 
establishes bodies whose duty it is to maintain social 
cohesion  through  justice  and  equity,  but  also  by 
bringing  peace  and  tranquillity  to  hearts  and  minds. 
They  include  a  national  dialogue  council,  a  women’s 
advisory council, a youth advisory council, a national 
council  of  elders  and  an  advisory  council  for  people 
with disabilities.
In short, all of these many innovations, which seek 
to respond to the desires of our sovereign people and 
the many challenges facing us today, will undoubtedly 
improve  political,  economic  and  social  governance  in 
our  country.  All  of  them  are  intended  to  benefit  the 
greater good of our people.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Erlan Abdyldayev, Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Kyrgyz Republic.
Mr. Abdyldayev (Kyrgyzstan) (spoke in Russian): 
I  would  first  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Peter  Thomson 
on  his  election  to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventy-first  session,  and  to  thank  Mr.  Mogens 
Lykketoft,  President  of  the  Assembly  during  the 
seventieth  session,  for  his  fruitful  leadership  of  the 
Assembly’s work.
Kyrgyzstan supports the theme of our debate, “The 
Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a  universal  push  to 
transform our world”, which seems very timely to us in 
the wake of the Assembly’s adoption last year of the 17 
Sustainable Development Goals and the conclusion of 
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
On 31 August, Kyrgyzstan marked the twenty-fifth 
anniversary of its independence. Over the years we have 
been progressing along the difficult path of building a 
democratic, lawful and economically developed State. 
Only six years have passed since the people’s revolution 
of  April  2010,  which  paved  the  way  for  Kyrgyzstan’s 
rebirth. We are proud of what our country has achieved 
since  then.  We  have  taken  our  own  particular  and 
very  difficult  road  to  freedom  and  democracy,  and 
we  have  paid  a  high  price  for  it.  The  freedom-loving 
people  of  Kyrgyzstan  have  learned  hard  lessons  from 
the  mistakes  of  their  first  20  years  of  independence. 
Today,  they  have  emerged  from  that  onto  the  road  to 
stability and shown the world the experience that they 
have  gained  in  overcoming  acute  social  and  political 
crises and building a free society.
Kyrgyzstan has suffered, but has made a conscious 
choice to build a parliamentary democracy. In October 
2015,  for  the  first  time  in  the  country’s  history,  we 
held  national  parliamentary  elections  using  biometric 
technology.  The  election  results  were  accepted  by 
all  political  parties,  a  testimony  to  the  unity  of  our 
people,  and  have  been  unanimously  recognized  as 
democratic  by  the  international  community.  I  would 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  gratitude 
to  the  Secretary-General  and  all  friendly  countries 
for their support for our election preparations. In 2017 
we  will  hold  presidential  elections,  and  we  urge  the 
United  Nations  and  our  partner  countries  to  continue 
supporting  Kyrgyzstan’s  efforts 
the 
elections to choose our next leader in accordance with 
international standards.
to  conduct 
Kyrgyzstan  fully  supports  the  adoption  of  a 
comprehensive  agenda  for  international  development 
in  the  form  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. We welcome the fact that the Sustainable 
Development Goals take into account the lessons of the 
efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, 
as  well  as  the  needs  of  mountainous  and  landlocked 
developing countries such as ours. For Kyrgyzstan, the 
biggest priority areas in the Sustainable Development 
Goals include poverty reduction, food security, quality 
16-29811
41/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
education  and  health  care,  economic  growth,  energy 
and the preservation of the environment.
As  we  know,  one  of  the  three  pillars  of  the 
2030  Agenda  consists  of  environmental  issues.  In 
Paris,  we  all  worked  together  to  reach  a  consensus 
on  climate  change.  Kyrgyzstan  fully  supports  that 
global  agreement,  and  yesterday  we  signed  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  on  the  margins  of  the 
general  debate.  In  Kyrgyzstan,  the  effects  of  global 
warming  are  already  leading  to  natural  disasters  and 
extreme situations, with fluctuations in the volumes of 
mountain rivers, excessive melting of glaciers and the 
degradation of unique mountain ecosystems. All of this 
has led to negative social consequences and significant 
harm  to  economic  sectors.  We  estimate  that  the 
annual  damage  from  natural  disasters  in  Kyrgyzstan 
amounts to about $35 million, rendering us in need of 
international assistance in adapting to climate change.
We are particularly concerned about the increased 
melting of our glaciers, which represent Central Asia’s 
natural storage of water resources. The prediction is that 
by 2025 Kyrgyzstan’s total glacier area could shrink by 
an average of 30 to 40 per cent, resulting in a drop of 
between 25 and 35 per cent in the volumes of our rivers. 
Kyrgyzstan therefore supports the undertaking of joint 
projects  aimed  at  conserving  glaciers  in  countries  in 
our region with mountain rivers. 
On  top  of  that,  climate  change  is  threatening  the 
biodiversity of our mountain ecosystems. In particular, 
since the 1990s, our snow leopard population has fallen 
by half,  from 600 to 300 animals. In 2013 we held the 
first Global Snow Leopard Conservation Forum, which 
has  become  the  starting  point  for  cooperation  among 
countries  that  have  snow  leopard  habitats,  as  well  as 
with our international partners. Next year, Kyrgyzstan 
will  convene  a  second  Global  Forum,  where  we  will 
consider  the  results  of  the  work  that  has  been  done 
and decide on future joint action for conserving those 
rare animals.
Another  serious  problem  that  cannot  be  solved 
without  the  international  community’s  participation 
is  the  presence  of  the  numerous  uranium  tailings 
scattered  throughout  the  countries  of  our  region.  The 
scale of the problem requires focused and coordinated 
work  within  the  framework  of  resolution  68/218, 
entitled  “The  role  of  the  international  community  in 
averting  the  radiation  threat  in  Central  Asia”.  In  that 
connection,  we  have  proposed  holding  a  high-level 
international  forum  on  the  resolution  in  May  or  June 
2017. The Kyrgyz Republic is ready to do the necessary 
preparatory  work  for  the  forum  along  with  other 
concerned  countries  and  international  organizations, 
and  we  hope  to  have  the  support  of  the  international 
community for those efforts.
For every State, sustainable development depends 
on security and stability, including at the global level. 
Unfortunately,  the  current  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  taking  place  against  a  backdrop  of 
international  tension  in  Afghanistan,  the  countries 
of  the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  and  Ukraine. 
The  differences  between  the  world’s  major  Powers 
on  current  international  political  issues  remain,  and 
the  pressures  of  sanctions  persist.  Such  international 
circumstances and the confrontational attitude of some 
countries  are  not  conducive  to  dealing  with  today’s 
challenges  and  threats  through  a  collective  approach 
conducted under United Nations auspices. Rather, their 
global  nature  demands  that  every  country,  without 
exception, continue to cooperate and collaborate in the 
interests of all humankind. We believe that the world 
Powers must put aside their differences and pool their 
efforts to combat the threats to international security.
In  an  era  of  globalization,  the  processes  involve 
other  countries  as  well  as  the  parties  to  a  conflict. 
Kyrgyzstan  is  no  exception.  We  have  unfortunately 
not  been  spared  by  phenomena  such  as  terrorism, 
extremism,  religious  intolerance  and  radicalization, 
although they began and evolved far beyond the borders 
of Kyrgyzstan. We have been obliged to act to protect 
the interests of the State and our citizens. However, we 
believe  it  is  more  effective  to  deal  with  them  locally 
from  the  start,  in  their  own  breeding  grounds.  It  is 
crucial that we provide international assistance to the 
countries that are battling the problem at the national 
level,  including  within  the  framework  of  the  Plan  of 
Action to Prevent Violent Extremism proposed by the 
Secretary-General in January.
In  combating  terrorism  and  extremism,  it  is 
important  to  ensure  that  force  is  accompanied  by 
preventive  measures  and 
intercultural  dialogue. 
Kyrgyzstan, like every other people, ethnic group and 
country,  has  its  own  unique  history  and  culture.  In 
order to popularize the peaceful values, traditions and 
customs  of  nomadic  civilization,  in  2011  Kyrgyzstan 
launched an initiative to stage the World Nomad Games, 
and  thus  in  2014,  on  the  shores  of  the  mountain  lake 
Issyk-Kul,  the  first-ever  World  Nomad  Games  were 
42/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
held.  Two  weeks  ago,  also  by  Issyk-Kul,  we  held  the 
second World Nomad Games, in which representatives 
and  athletes  from  62  countries  took  part.  Thousands 
came  to  watch  the  uniquely  spectacular  and  original 
athletic contests. 
The World Nomad Games are helping to strengthen 
mutual understanding and cooperation among countries 
and peoples from many different cultures and religions. 
With  regard  to  ,  the  Assembly’s  resolution  on  the 
promotion of interreligious and intercultural dialogue, 
understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace,  Kyrgyzstan 
supports  the  inclusion  of  a  provision  supporting  the 
periodic holding of the World Nomad Games, and we 
are  counting  on  support  for  that  initiative  from  the 
States Members of the United Nations.
resources collapsed. Despite that, the Kyrgyz Republic 
has continued to accumulate water in its reservoirs at 
a  time  when  prices  of  energy  resources  supplied  by 
neighbouring  countries  have  been  increasing  every 
year.  Frankly,  it  has  been  a  game  with  only  one  set 
of  goalposts.  In  the  circumstances,  Kyrgyzstan  has 
been  obliged  to  switch  to  producing  affordable,  clean 
electrical  power  through  its  hydroelectric  plants  in 
order  to  provide  its  people  with  heat  and  electricity. 
We still have electricity shortages, especially in winter. 
Within  the  framework  of  its  existing  relationships, 
Kyrgyzstan,  with  its  considerable  reserves  of  fresh 
water, is not adequately compensated economically for 
the  services  it  renders  through  its  accumulation  and 
storage  of  water  resources  that  are  important  to  the 
entire region.
if 
that 
Kyrgyzstan  believes 
the  countries  of 
Central Asia are to have sustainable development and 
security,  they  must  strengthen  their  mutual  trust  and 
cooperation. We have been compelled to confront the 
fact that many of the region’s problems are a long way 
from  being  solved  successfully  and  functionally.  Our 
active  efforts  to  provide  regional  security,  liberalize 
trade regulations, encourage transit through inter-State 
road and rail routes and deal with other issues are not 
enough.  Resolving  border  issues  has  to  be  a  major 
factor in regional stability.
Unfortunately, situations today in which individual 
States attempt to pursue their own development at other 
countries’  expense  and  limit  their  opportunities  are 
becoming more common. We believe that such trends 
should have no place in the modern civilized world. In 
order to truly protect the right to development, it is vital 
that we ensure that powerful States and transnational 
corporations  do  not  dictate  conditions,  limit  other 
countries’  development,  hinder  the  implementation 
of  effective  projects  or,  especially,  interfere  in  their 
internal  affairs.  In  a  civilized  world  no  one  should 
prevent  development  for  some  States  in  order  to 
encourage it in others. We believe that any international 
cooperation should be based on the principles of mutual 
benefit and respect for each other’s interests. In order 
to  achieve  that,  we  believe  it  is  vital  to  strengthen 
international law on the right of States to development.
The  issue  of  the  relationship  between  water  and 
power in Central Asia deserves special attention. As we 
know, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, processes 
in Central Asia began to disintegrate. Mutually agreed-
on  arrangements  for  exchanging  water  and  energy 
In that connection, we believe that the countries of 
Central  Asia  should  come  to  a  unified  understanding 
of  the  meaning  and  significance  of  our  complex 
use  of  water  and  energy  resources.  Today  the  region 
possesses  considerable  potential  when  it  comes  to 
achieving  a  transition  to  clean  energy.  Implementing 
construction  projects  for  hydropower  stations 
in 
Kyrgyzstan  and  Tajikistan  could  meet  the  energy 
needs of every country in the region and thereby create 
favourable conditions for our sustainable development, 
while  being  fully  consistent  with  the  provisions  of 
Sustainable Development Goal 7 regarding affordable, 
clean energy.
Another 
in  Central  Asia’s 
regional stability is finding ways to achieve the speedy 
settlement of border issues based on the principles and 
norms of international law. We call for using exclusively 
political  and  diplomatic  means  to  resolve  current 
regional  problems  peacefully,  in  accordance  with  the 
principles  of  international  law,  mutual  understanding 
and  compromise,  without  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of 
force. For its part, Kyrgyzstan remains open to dialogue 
and cooperation with all interested parties.
important 
factor 
The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  our  combined 
opposition to today’s challenges and threats has grown 
enormously.  However,  alongside  the  Organization’s 
growing  importance,  its  responsibility  for  taking 
decisions on the fate of the entire world community has 
also grown. For all practical purposes, the 15 members 
of the Security Council currently make decisions about 
the  security  issues  of  every  country  on  the  planet. 
Questions  of  war  and  peace,  security  and  stability 
in  every  corner  of  the  world  depend  on  the  positions 
16-29811
43/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
they  collectively  arrive  at.  On  top  of  that,  the  five 
permanent members of the Security Council can block 
any decision.
In that regard, we believe that reform of the primary 
international organ of the United Nations, which should 
take into account the interests of a much larger majority 
of States, is long overdue. When the Organization was 
created and the founding Member States numbered only 
50, limiting the membership of the Security Council to 
15 was justified. But now there are 193 Member States. 
We  believe  that  the  expansion  of  democracy  should 
not  be  confined  to  States’  national  borders.  The  time 
has  come  to  introduce  democratic  principles  into  the 
election of members of the main organs of the United 
Nations, including the Security Council.
We should also reform the process for selecting the 
Secretary-General. We welcome the procedural changes 
whereby, for the first time in the Organization’s 71-year 
history,  all  Member  States  have  had  the  opportunity 
ahead  of  time  to  get  to  know  the  candidates  for  that 
important  position,  and  their  proposed  programmes, 
during  consultations.  However,  we  should  not  stop 
there. We are in favour of introducing direct elections 
for the post of Secretary-General through a vote in the 
General Assembly.
I  would  like  to  bring  up  another  problem  here. 
From  20  to  23  September,  the  Office  for  Democratic 
Institutions  and  Human  Rights  (ODIHR)  of 
the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE) provided a platform for the claims of Kadyrzhan 
Batyrov, who has been convicted by the Supreme Court 
of the Kyrgyz Republic and sentenced in absentia to life 
imprisonment for the serious crimes of organizing and 
fomenting  inter-ethnic  strife  in  2010.  In  2013  he  was 
also cited by the Russian Federation in connection with 
an  investigation  of  large-scale  fraud.  Kyrgyzstan  and 
the OSCE have cooperated in achieving many brilliant 
successes. However, the ODIHR policy is fomenting a 
conflict that could lead to a destabilizing situation and 
unpredictable consequences in our country.
We  are  a  country  that  has  laboured  to  begin  the 
process  of  building  parliamentary  democracy.  We 
have strictly and scrupulously abided by all the OSCE 
and  ODIHR  recommendations,  and  will  continue  to 
do  so.  We  believe  that  the  aforementioned  actions  of 
the ODIHR represent a sign of extreme disrespect not 
only for a State’s judicial system but also to the entire 
people of Kyrgyzstan. We can only see it as a challenge 
to the Kyrgyz Republic as it treads the thorny, difficult 
path  towards  building  a  genuine  democracy.  In  this 
way,  the  annual  meetings  of  ODIHR  could  become  a 
platform where criminal elements who have committed 
very serious crimes have the right to speak. If ODIHR 
acts  this  way  with  regard  to  Kyrgyzstan  and  other 
countries  today,  it  is  possible  that  in  future  it  could 
see  representatives  of  the  terrorists  of  the  Islamic 
State,  soaked  in  the  blood  of  their  horrific  crimes 
against  humanity,  participating  in  its  efforts.  The 
Kyrgyz  Republic  fully  shares  the  democratic  values 
of  the  OSCE,  and  we  act  to  uphold  them.  However, 
we  categorically  reject  double  standards  and  the 
transformation of that organization into an institution 
of  provocation  and  intervention  into  the  domestic 
affairs of sovereign States.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  our 
conviction  that  the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and  the  Paris  climate  agreement 
should  remain  a  top  priority  in  the  international 
community’s  coordinated  initiatives.  We  must  ensure 
that  no  one  be  left  behind,  and  especially  not  the 
mountainous  landlocked  developing  countries.  We 
must  vanquish  the  destructive  forces  of  terrorism 
and  extremism,  which  undermine  peace  and  stability 
throughout the world. In this matter, we need the full 
cooperation of leading world Powers. They should also 
stop imposing sanctions on each other, as that affects 
other countries. 
The role of the United Nations in our joint efforts 
to  counter  contemporary  challenges  and  threats  is 
becoming  increasingly  significant.  We  call  for  full 
support  for  and  a  strengthening  of  our  Organization 
to  collectively  address  global  challenges  to  advance 
sustainable development.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Emmanuel  Issoze-Ngondet,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs, 
International  Cooperation  and  Regional 
Integration of the Gabonese Republic.
to 
Mr.  Issoze-Ngondet  (Gabon)  (spoke  in  French): 
I  would  like  to  begin  by  conveying  my  warm 
congratulations 
the  President  on  his  brilliant 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventy-first  session.  He  can  be  assured  of  the 
Gabonese  delegation’s  full  support  and  cooperation 
throughout his tenure. Allow me to also commend the 
remarkable  work  of  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  whose  efforts  enabled  us  to 
44/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
bring  new  momentum  to  the  implementation  of  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted a 
year ago.
Since then, major events have taken place throughout 
the  world  in  the  areas  of  politics,  the  environment, 
economics  and  security.  As  regards  politics,  this 
meeting comes in the wake of a disputed presidential 
election in my country. The final results, which were 
announced last night, confirmed the re-election of His 
Excellency Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba as President of the 
Republic  and  Head  of  State.  I  would  like  to  take  the 
opportunity to express the gratitude of the Government 
and people of Gabon to the friendly countries who stood 
with  us.  I  thank  the  entire  international  community 
for  its  support  during  this  very  sensitive  time  in  the 
history of Gabon. In order to ensure credible elections 
that  could  deliver  results  acceptable  to  all  political 
actors,  the  Government  sought  to  implement  specific 
confidence-building and transparency measures. On its 
initiative, the Parliament passed the law establishing the 
use of biometrics in the procedures used in preparing 
the electoral roll.
The President of the Republic wanted the election 
to  be  free,  transparent  and  open.  To  that  end,  the 
Government 
invited  over  1,200  observers  and 
accredited  over  200  foreign  journalists.  Thus,  many 
electoral  observer  missions,  both  international  and 
subregional, were deployed throughout the country. 
Notwithstanding 
all 
these  guarantees, 
the 
provisional  results  of  the  vote  made  public  by  the 
Ministry  of  the  Interior  were  challenged,  sometimes 
with  unprecedented  violence,  which  unfortunately 
resulted in serious incidents, including the deplorable 
loss of human lives. The turmoil that this caused at the 
national  and  international  levels  reflected  the  gravity 
of the situation. In accordance with legal procedures, 
appeals were submitted to the competent judicial body, 
the  Constitutional  Court.  It  was  the  job  of  the  Court, 
whose  decisions  cannot  be  appealed,  to  confirm  or 
overturn  the  provisional  results.  The  Court  issued  its 
verdict last night, in which it confirmed the re-election 
of President Ali Bongo Ondimba.
Taking  stock  of 
the  situation,  President  Ali 
Bongo  Ondimba  has  called  for  an  inclusive  dialogue, 
reconciliation and unity. Restoring social cohesion and 
national unity is the current priority. Maintaining the 
country’s peace and stability is the other challenge we 
face. My delegation therefore calls on the international 
community to support it in this effort, with the ultimate 
goal  of  strengthening  the  rule  of  law,  democracy  and 
good  governance.  In  this  respect,  we  will  strengthen 
political  and  economic  governance.  The  bodies 
responsible  for  preventing  and  settling  conflicts 
nationally — the National Council for Democracy and 
the Mediator of the Republic — will be provided with 
substantial  resources  that  will  enable  them  to  fulfil 
their mandates.
I  would  like  to  pay  a  strong  and  well-deserved 
tribute  to  those  partners  of  Gabon,  both  bilateral  and 
multilateral,  who  stood  beside  us  before,  during  and 
after the election. I am thinking of France, the United 
States,  Morocco  and  many  other  friendly  countries 
in  Africa  and 
that  spared  no 
efforts in that regard. I am thinking, of course, of the 
United  Nations,  the  African  Union,  the  International 
Organization of la Francophonie, the European Union 
and  many  other  partners,  to  which  I  would  like  to 
convey our unending gratitude.
throughout  world 
Other  major  events  deserve  our  attention.  They 
include  the  widely  praised  diplomatic  rapprochement 
between the United States and Cuba. It is my hope that 
the  thawing  of  relations  between  these  two  countries 
will lead to the lifting of the economic embargo. I would 
also mention the twenty-first session of the Conference 
of the Parties (COP 21) to the United Nations Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  in  Paris.  The  entire 
world  was  pleased  to  see  the  signing  of  the  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change on 12 December 2015. 
Thanks to the clear determination of all the countries 
that took part in this important meeting, the success was 
commensurate with our expectations. Gabon, strongly 
committed  to  countering  global  warming,  made  its 
contribution. The Paris Agreement is a historic turning 
point  in  our  quest  for  a  more  sustainable  and  caring 
world. It is not an overstatement to say that it is a great 
step  forward  for  humankind.  We  must  now  show  the 
same  determination  in  implementing  it  as  we  did  in 
reaching it.
I  note  with  great  satisfaction  that  the  number  of 
countries that have ratified the Agreement is growing. 
I  welcome  the  remarkable  momentum  building  in  the 
international  community,  and  I  would  like  to  believe 
that the Agreement will enter into force between now 
and  the  twenty-second  session  of  the  Conference  of 
the  Parties  (COP  22)  to  the  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change. As far as Gabon is concerned, we 
have already begun the process of ratification. We will 
16-29811
45/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
do our utmost to deposit our instrument of ratification 
as soon as possible.
It  is  difficult  today  to  speak  of  the  results  of 
COP 21 without mentioning the challenges facing the 
twenty-second session. COP 22 is seen as an extension 
of COP 21. It will be held in Morocco, with a central 
focus  on  the  issue  of  energy  development  in  Africa. 
Two  thirds  of  Africans  are  without  electricity  —  an 
injustice  that  we  must  mobilize  to  remedy.  It  is  time 
to  apply  ourselves  jointly  to  the  realization  of  all 
of  our  intitiatives  and  all  our  announced  agendas. 
Gabon  welcomes  the  mobilization  of  Morocco  and 
its  commitment  to  the  success  of  COP  22,  especially 
in  view  of  the  parties’  envisaged  adoption  of  urgent 
measures within the framework of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development. That goes to show the value 
that Gabon attaches to environmental issues, which are 
at the heart of the Agenda and which we adopted at the 
seventieth session of the General Assembly in this very 
Hall.
At  a  time  when  we  are  rocked  by  economic, 
social  and  political  crises,  the  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  represents 
today a new push to transform our world. It is therefore 
important that the enthusiasm surrounding the adoption 
of  the  2030  Agenda  be  reflected  in  action  in  order 
to  accelerate  its  implementation.  That  is  the  major 
challenge  the  international  community  will  face  over 
the coming years.
The  poverty  eradication,  conservation  of 
the 
environment  and  sharing  of  prosperity  to  which 
we  all  aspire  are  requirements  that  call  for  a  greater 
mobilization of human and financial resources, together 
with  increased  involvement  on  the  part  of  the  private 
sector. I mention the mobilization of human resources 
because people must remain at the centre of our policies 
and  actions.  For  that  reason,  the  involvement  of  all 
actors is more than critical. By “actors”, I mean young 
people,  women,  persons  with  disabilities,  refugees, 
migrants, civil society and the private sector. 
economic growth, job creation and wealth creation. It 
is therefore time for the private sector to play a larger 
role  in  tackling  the  challenges  linked  to  sustainable 
development.
tackling 
its  unflagging  efforts  when 
I  wish  to  reassure  everybody  that  Gabon  will 
it  comes 
continue 
to 
the  problems  posed  by  sustainable 
development  and  finding  new  ways  of  managing  our 
economies.  In  that  regard,  our  Government  created 
the  Investment  and  Export  Promotion  Agency,  which 
is  required  to  come  up  with  harmonious  strategies  to 
improve  our  business  climate  and  to  implement  strict 
and  appropriate  management  methods  with  regard  to 
our natural resources. The Agency is also responsible 
for  designing  and  implementing  a  sectoral  approach 
that focuses on initial processing at the local level and 
rational management of our environment. We felt it was 
necessary to modify our traditional economic approach 
by integrating into it a new, sustainable balance between 
our people and our environment and also a space-time 
dimension with respect to development. That approach 
is designed to address the growing gap between poor 
and rich and to anticipate and avert the consequences, 
for  the  environment  and  for  future  generations,  of 
poorly controlled or uncontrolled growth.
As, I think, everyone will agree, if we are to fulfil 
our commitments in respect of sustainable development 
and tackling climate change, we need a peaceful society. 
For that reason my country approves any initiative that 
will ensure peace and security within our borders, in 
the  subregion  of  Central  Africa,  and  throughout  the 
entire world. The concept of peace is a constant that has 
always  characterized  the  experience  of  the  people  of 
Gabon. Hence, Gabon actively participates in the fight 
against  terrorism,  which  operates  in  various  parts  of 
the  world  indiscriminately.  The  presence  of  Gabon  at 
the Second Regional Security Summit for Africa, held 
in Abuja in May, is proof of our commitment to a world 
without terrorism. The decline in the activities of Boko 
Haram in the Chad Basin prove that the synergy of our 
efforts is paying off.
The mobilization of financial resources is needed 
because  the  implementation  of  the  SDGs  requires 
that we meet a whole set of needs. We must therefore 
redouble  our  creativity  and  find  new  sources  of 
financing, so as not to repeat the errors associated with 
the implementation of Millennium Development Goals. 
The private sector needs to be mobilized and involved 
because it plays a key role with regard to productivity, 
The  fight  against  an  enemy  that  is  asymmetrical 
is  far  from  having  been  won.  Despite  increased 
cooperation  and  significant  resources  deployed  on 
the ground, and although we have raised our levels of 
alertness  and  added  to  the  capabilities  of  our  special 
forces, small terrorist groups are proving to be resilient 
and are displaying an unprecedented capacity for doing 
harm. 
46/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
In  both  Syria  and  Iraq,  the  so-called  Islamic 
State  —  in  spite  of  being  weakened  —  still  has 
sufficient  financial  and  technical  means  to  challenge 
the  international  coalition.  We  must,  therefore,  do  all 
we can to deplete its sources of supply.
If we are to overcome the terrorist threat, we must 
first  resolve  the  conflicts  in  Libya  and  Syria.  I  need 
hardly  remind  those  present  that  the  current  chaos 
has  become  fertile  ground  for  the  nebulous  terrorists 
to operate and to expand their destabilizing activities. 
The  migratory  crisis,  which  is  unprecedented,  is  also 
being  stoked  by  the  conflicts  in  Libya  and  Syria. 
As  we  have  repeatedly  said,  the  only  alternative  to 
these  crises  is  a  political  solution  arrived  at  through 
negotiation. Any military solution should be in keeping 
with that approach.
Poaching and trafficking of all types also constitute 
threats to our collective peace and security. My country 
welcomes  the  second  General  Assembly  resolution 
to  tackle  poaching  (resolution  70/301),  adopted  on 
9 September 2016. My country is particularly concerned 
about the lack of progress in the general and complete 
disarmament process, as it is about the paralysis of the 
multilateral disarmament mechanisms. The resumption 
of  work  requires  that  all  Member  States  recommit 
their  efforts.  Maintaining  the  status  quo  is  not  a 
viable solution.
The prevailing and persistent impasse in the Israeli-
Palestinian peace process is also not viable. The lack 
of  constructive  dialogue  serves  neither  the  cause  of 
Israel’s security nor that of bringing about a stable and 
prosperous Palestinian State. On the contrary, it serves 
only to heighten tensions, distrust and insecurity. We 
believe  that  any  lasting  solution  that  is  acceptable  to 
all  has  to  emerge  from  direct  negotiations  between 
the concerned parties, not from unilateral approaches. 
We  reaffirm  Gabon’s  support  for  France’s  proposal 
regarding  the  convening  of  a  conference,  before  the 
year’s  end,  at  which  the  Israelis  and  the  Palestinians 
would be able to resume negotiations.
As for Moroccan Sahara, there is still the option of 
a negotiated political solution. In my view, it is the best 
way forward if we are to break the deadlock that has 
been in place for several years. My country reiterates its 
support for the Moroccan initiative, which we believe 
is  realistic  and  capable  of  leading,  under  the  aegis  of 
the United Nations, to a lasting settlement of that issue.
In  closing,  allow  me  to  pay  a  heartfelt  tribute  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  whose  mandate  is 
coming to an end. I thank him for his tireless and constant 
efforts  to  uphold  the  noble  aims  of  the  Organization 
and  for  the  many  initiatives  he  has  led  with  a  view 
to  realizing  the  projects  and  ambitions  of  the  United 
Nations  for  the  world.  I  thank  him  for  everything  he 
has done during the ten years he has spent at the helm 
of our Secretariat. On behalf of Gabon, my delegation 
welcomes  the  reforms  he  has  brought  about  in  our 
Organization,  which  will  undoubtedly  have  a  lasting 
impact  on  the  world.  It  thanks  him  for  his  leadership 
on  issues  as  important  as  climate  change,  migration 
flows, humanitarian assistance, questions of peace and 
security, and the reform of the Security Council.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms. Francine Baron, Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
CARICOM Affairs of the Commonwealth of Dominica.
Ms. Baron (Dominica): Last year, when this body 
met,  we  resolved  collectively  to  take  global  action  to 
transform our world in a manner that would bring about 
sustainable  and  equitable  development.  The  adoption 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs),  has 
set  the  stage  for  increasing  international  discourse 
and  action  in  our  fight  against  inequality,  to  combat 
climate change, to empower our citizens, to protect the 
vulnerable and to improve the lives of billions of people 
across the globe.
like  other 
small 
Today,  Dominica, 
island 
developing  States  (SIDS),  remains  motivated  and 
committed  to  achieving  the  SDGs.  For  my  country, 
the realization of the SDGs is not simply about ticking 
boxes.  Fundamentally,  it  is  about  making  a  real  and 
meaningful  difference  in  the  lives  of  our  citizens. 
However,  in  order  for  those  essential  changes  to  take 
place, we must each do more at the national level, and 
all  countries  must  deliver  on  their  commitments  in 
accordance  with  their  respective  means.  That  effort 
will require more structured and effective partnerships.
Additionally, as we focus our minds on the SDGs, 
we  must  also  sharpen  our  focus  on  the  impact  that 
climate change continues to have on the development 
of  SIDS.  In  the  past  few  years,  we  have  witnessed  a 
dramatic reduction in agricultural production. We are 
also experiencing more severe and prolonged droughts, 
often followed by sudden and high volumes of rainfall, 
which  result  in  massive  soil  erosion  and  catastrophic 
loss and damage.
16-29811
47/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
Likewise, the ongoing phenomenon of beach erosion 
and destruction of coral reefs — so vital to our tourism 
product and the character of our islands — risks untold 
damage  to  our  prized  tourism  assets.  Consequently, 
the  economic  impact  on  SIDS  is  dire.  More  urgent 
and wide-ranging action is needed in the fight against 
climate change to ensure our very survival. To that end, 
we look forward to building on the momentum of the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  as  we  move  on 
to the twenty-second session of the Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change,  to  be  held  in  Marrakesh  later 
this year.
As  many  will  recall,  a  little  over  a  year  ago  the 
Commonwealth  of  Dominica  was  painfully  reminded 
of  the  devastating  impact  of  climate  change.  In  less 
than 24 hours, Tropical Storm Erika took the lives of 
30  Dominicans  and  wreaked  havoc  on  our  country’s 
physical and social infrastructure. That single climatic 
event  caused  damage  estimated  at  EC$1.3  billion,  or 
$483  million,  which  accounted  for  90  per  cent  of  the 
island’s gross domestic product.
One year on, we are making great strides and are 
on track to build back better and to build increasingly 
climate-resilient and adaptive infrastructure. While we 
commend the Dominicans— at home and abroad — for 
their  support  and  dedication,  our  progress  has  been 
made  easier  through  the  partnership  and  support  of 
our  bilateral  and  multilateral  partners.  We  therefore 
take this opportunity to thank them publicly for their 
invaluable contribution to our rebuilding efforts.
I can say that Dominica’s experience with Tropical 
Storm  Erika  is  all  too  common  in  the  lives  of  SIDS. 
We  continue  to  suffer  the  disproportionate  burden 
and  impact  of  climate  change,  which  also  severely 
undermines  our  efforts  at  sustainable  development. 
Also  troubling  are  the  slow-onset  events  and  the 
extreme weather events that are brought on as a result 
of climate change. These are expected to become more 
frequent and more destructive. What that means for us, 
in real terms, is that limited resources, which should be 
targeted at transformative and sustainable development, 
of  necessity  have  to  be  continuously  shifted  to  post-
disaster rehabilitation.
That  is  why  Dominica  continues  its  call  for 
collaboration  in  the  establishment  of  an  international 
natural disaster risk fund, to provide timely financial 
support  to  SIDS  affected  by  natural  disasters.  The 
current Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility within the 
Caribbean  Development  Bank  for  Caribbean  SIDS, 
the International Monetary Fund’s support for disaster 
recovery  and  the  World  Bank’s  Global  Facility  for 
Disaster  Reduction  and  Recovery  are  good  starting 
points.  Regrettably,  in  the  face  of  the  enormous 
challenge, their funding levels remain vastly insufficient. 
We  would  be  encouraged  if  the  capitalization  of  this 
special  natural  disaster  risk  fund  were  to  come  from 
the parties to annex I of the Framework Convention on 
Climate  Change  and  other  major  emitters,  including 
voluntary contributors. We believe that such a facility 
would  enable  SIDS  to  access  and  secure  funds  in  a 
more  predictable  and  timely  manner  and  to  rebuild 
more robust infrastructure through effective technical 
assistance and physical development planning. It would 
also  help  these  climate-vulnerable  countries  to  build 
increasingly climate-resilient economies and to identify 
vulnerable areas that need to be adapted and mitigated 
to better deal with any future catastrophic event.
The  Government  of  Dominica  is  also  taking 
effective steps at the national level to improve its ability 
to  respond  and  deliver  in  post-disaster  situations. 
This  year,  Prime  Minister  Roosevelt  Skerrit  outlined 
a  proposal  to  establish  a  national  vulnerability  risk 
and  resilience  fund.  The  fund  aims  to  ensure  that 
the  Government  has  immediate  access  to  financial 
resources  in  the  event  of  a  natural  disaster.  The  fund 
would also be used to finance climate-resilient projects 
and  programmes.  The  capitalization  of  the  fund  will 
come from Government revenue and returns from the 
Government’s investments in renewable energy projects 
that  have  already  been  implemented  with  grants  and 
concessionary  financing  through  the  Green  Climate 
Fund.  Two  projects  have  already  been  identified:  the 
geothermal  energy  project  and  a  national  waste-to-
energy project.
Today’s interconnectedness of global markets make 
access  to  the  global  financial  system  a  prerequisite 
to  economic  development  and  a  sine  qua  non  for 
sustainable development. The free movement of goods 
and  services  depends  on  the  ability  of  the  public  and 
private sectors to move financial resources throughout 
the  world.  Therefore,  recent  actions  taken  by  several 
international  banks  in  the  United  States  and  across 
Europe  to  terminate  correspondent  banking  relations 
with indigenous banks in the Caribbean have made it 
difficult for the Caribbean to do business with the rest 
of the world. The consequences are far-reaching. It has 
48/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
affected  the  transmission  of  remittances,  undermined 
foreign investments, restricted the repatriation of profits 
and restricted our national and indigenous banks’ ability 
to participate effectively in the international financial 
systems, even though they have not been found guilty 
of any financial or security breaches.
The  Governments  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM) have long recognized and supported the 
need for common global action against the financing of 
terrorism, money laundering, organized crime and other 
illegal activities. Our countries have worked diligently 
with  non-regional  Governments  and 
international 
institutions  like  the  Financial  Action  Task  Force  on 
Money Laundering and the Caribbean Financial Action 
Task  Force  and  have  instituted  domestic  legislation 
to  fight  money  laundering,  restrict  the  financing  of 
terrorism and seize the proceeds of crime.
leaders  acknowledge 
that 
Our 
the  de-risking 
of  correspondent  banks  is  a  direct  response  to  the 
regulatory requirements imposed by those jurisdictions 
in which they operate. We want to see action to remedy 
its harmful effects on us. The unintended consequences 
threaten our very economic survival. The solution lies, 
we believe, in meaningful dialogue between and among 
States. Through dialogue, we hope to see the creation 
of rules-based standards and mechanisms that govern 
the  establishment  and  maintenance  of  correspondent 
banking  relationships  and  regulatory  changes  under 
which the respondent banks, instead of correspondent 
banks, would be sanctioned for violations in connection 
with  anti-money 
the 
financing of terrorism, thereby removing the burden of 
compliance from the latter.
laundering  and  combating 
Like  most  challenges  of  global  magnitude,  that 
calls  for  strong  international  partnerships.  One  such 
partnership  is  the  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of 
Action (SAMOA) Pathway, which we believe presents a 
blueprint for such modalities. It also highlights durable 
and genuine partnerships as a cornerstone for achieving 
the SDGs in SIDS. Additionally, we believe that South-
South,  North-South  and  Triangular  cooperation  have 
served  and  will  continue  to  serve  as  an  effective 
platform for technology transfer and capacity-building. 
We  thank  our  developed  country  partners,  which 
continue to play a major role in our development and 
in  our  efforts  to  realize  the  SDGs.  Over  the  years, 
those  countries  have  stood  steadfastly  with  us  in 
our  commitment  to  improve  the  lives  of  our  people. 
Assistance  with  developing  sustainable  agriculture, 
tourism and energy, especially with geothermal energy 
development,  have  set  the  platform  for  sustainable 
social  and  economic  development,  while  at  the  same 
time combating climate change.
We  strongly  believe,  however,  that  an  effective 
strategy to realize the SDGs will require an overhaul 
of the manner in which official development assistance 
(ODA) is executed. ODA must be more informed by the 
realities  in  the  recipient  countries,  more  predictable, 
and accessible in a timely manner. For instance, the very 
unrealistic and arbitrary classification of several small 
island  developing  States  as  middle-income  countries, 
based on the flawed notion of gross domestic product 
per  capita,  is  yet  another  way  in  which  the  efforts  of 
small  countries  at  building  economic  resilience  and 
sustainable development are systematically undermined. 
It  is  a  tendency  that  completely  obscures  the  reality 
in  SIDS  and  ignores  their  inherent  characteristics  of 
vulnerability. We will continue to draw attention to the 
unsuitability of those categorizations.
At  the  same  time,  SIDS  will  continue  to  explore 
opportunities  within  the  framework  of  South-South 
cooperation. We have recently been encouraged by the 
increasing  levels  of  partnership  among  and  between 
countries of the South. The role of China has become 
integral  to  South-South  cooperation,  and  China  has 
demonstrated  its  willingness  and  capacity  to  assist 
developing countries in critical areas of development. 
These have included funding for and the construction 
of essential physical infrastructure, as well as providing 
assistance  in  the  form  of  equipment,  the  delivery  of 
health-care services and human resources development.
Equally, countries such as the Bolivarian Republic 
of Venezuela and Cuba continue to make a durable and 
significant  impact  on  the  health  care,  education  and 
energy landscape of Dominica. Cuba has the capacity to 
make an even greater contribution to our region and the 
world, once the economic embargo is lifted. Dominica 
is  encouraged  by  the  recent  improvement  in  relations 
between the Republic of Cuba and the United States of 
America.  We  applaud  President  Obama’s  initiative  as 
progressive  and  worthy  of  international  support.  The 
critical  next  step,  however,  should  be  the  removal  of 
all other impediments to trade and economic activities, 
so  that  Cuba  can  fully  benefit  from  the  international 
trading and financial systems.
Even  in  the  face  of  its  own  domestic  challenges, 
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela continues to be 
16-29811
49/52
A/71/PV.20 
24/09/2016
a  reliable  partner  in  development.  Our  partnership 
with  the  Bolivarian  Republic,  especially  over  the 
past  decade,  has  contributed  significantly  to  our 
own  tangible  achievements  under  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  through  initiatives  such  as  the 
Bolivarian Alternative for the Peoples of Our America 
and  the  PetroCaribe  Energy  Cooperation  Agreement. 
We look forward to our continued partnership and hope 
for  a  peaceful  and  amicable  resolution  of  its  current 
difficulties. A peaceful and stable hemisphere is in the 
interest of all of us.
Within  the  Caribbean  subregion,  we  continue  to 
strengthen  and  deepen  both  bilateral  and  multilateral 
partnerships  to  promote  development  and  our  effort 
to achieve the SDGs. The role of regional institutions 
like  CARICOM  and  the  Organization  of  Eastern 
Caribbean  States  has  become  even  more  essential  in 
terms of social and economic development. That is why 
we have built institutions that serve the people of our 
region  in  every  aspect  of  development.  Our  regional 
approach to our common challenges has also garnered 
better results than if we were to face them individually. 
CARICOM now provides a critical interface with our 
development partners in trade, energy, and social and 
economic development.
is  currently 
implementing 
In  the  area  of  energy,  CARICOM  has  adopted 
and 
the  Caribbean 
Sustainable  Energy  Roadmap  and  Strategy.  The  goal 
of the Roadmap and Strategy is to transform the energy 
sectors of the member States by providing secure and 
sustainable  supplies  of  clean,  reliable  and  affordable 
energy with stable prices in order to better position the 
Caribbean Community to achieve the SDGs. As a result, 
CARICOM  has  been  partnering  with  other  countries 
and  organizations,  both  formally  and  informally,  to 
assist its members. 
One such partnership exists with the Government 
of Austria, the United Nations Industrial Development 
Organization  and  the  SIDS  Sustainable  Energy  and 
Climate  Resilience  Initiative  to  create  the  Caribbean 
Centre  for  Renewable  Energy  and  Energy  Efficiency. 
The  Centre  will  serve  as  a  hub  for  coordinating 
Caribbean-wide renewable energy and energy efficiency 
programmes. We expect it to play a major role in the 
implementation of the CARICOM energy policies.
Given  its  paramount  importance  to  the  future 
prosperity and sustainable development of the SIDS, I 
would like briefly to highlight SDG 14, which refers to 
protection  of  our  seas,  oceans  and  marine  resources. 
The world’s oceans and seas are sources of nourishment 
and nutrition to billions, a major tourism asset and an 
important part of our complex ecosystem. International 
actions  to  protect  the  health  of  our  oceans  and  seas 
should  be  pursued  as  a  matter  of  urgency.  Small  and 
large  countries  should  come  together  to  coordinate 
efforts and to create a system to regulate activities that 
affect our oceans and seas.
We  commend  the  efforts  and  initiatives  taken  by 
the  Friends  of  the  Oceans  group,  the  Government  of 
Italy  and,  most  recently,  United  States  Secretary  of 
State  John  Kerry.  The  recent  Our  Ocean  Conference 
in Washington, D.C., like its predecessors, highlighted 
the  need  to  draw  greater  attention  to  the  ongoing 
destruction  of  our  oceans  resulting  from  marine 
pollution and its implications for humankind. We need 
innovative and global responses. We must also improve 
public  awareness  and  education  on  marine  pollution 
and highlight the best practices to protect our oceans.
In 
that  regard,  we  commend 
the  efforts  of 
representatives  and  countries  advancing  the  We  Are 
The  Oceans  concept.  Dominica  is  happy  to  associate 
with  this  initiative,  which  promotes  food  security, 
sustainable  consumption  and  production,  ocean 
conservation and biodiversity as a way to meet, or even 
exceed,  the  commitments  made  by  our  leaders.  We 
are  The  Oceans  holds  great  potential  for  making  the 
issue of our seas and oceans one of the most extensive 
educational initiatives of the SDGs. We urge Member 
States to join and to work collectively to save our planet 
for future generations. Collectively, we have the ability 
to solve the most difficult challenges of our time
The unprecedented pace of human advancement in 
the twenty-first century has demonstrated that we have 
the  capacity  and  ingenuity  to  combat  climate  change 
and to develop means of production and consumption to 
sustain humankind, while at the same time protecting 
our planet. 
Our efforts to save our planet and to improve the 
lives of billions of people throughout the world — people 
who  suffer  from  hunger  and  starvation  and  those 
who continue to be marginalized — will be pointless 
without  peace  and  security.  The  destruction  wrought 
by  wars  within  and  between  countries  continues  to 
displace millions of people from their homes, creating 
an unprecedented refugee crisis.
50/52 
16-29811
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.20
The 
threat  posed  by  nuclear  weapons,  and 
especially  by  the  determination  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  develop  weapons  with 
the ability to kill millions, is a major threat not only to 
the neighbours of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea  but  to  people  everywhere.  The  United  Nations 
must,  without  hesitation,  take  strong  and  decisive 
action  to  pursue  diplomatic  solutions  to  end  the  war 
in Syria and to eliminate the nuclear capability of the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Similarly, we 
must,  as  a  matter  of  urgency,  work  together  to  defeat 
the increasing threat of global terrorism. It is up to us 
to take the necessary actions.
The meeting rose at 2.45 p.m.
16-29811
51/52
