United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
55th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 7 December 2016, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.55
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Bouah-Kamon 
(Côte d’Ivoire), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 73 (continued)
Oceans and the law of the sea
Draft resolution (A/71/L.27)
(a) Oceans and the law of the sea
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/71/74 and 
A/71/74/Add.1)
Report on the work of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group of the Whole on the Regular Process 
for Global Reporting and Assessment of the 
State of the Marine Environment, including 
Socioeconomic Aspects (A/71/362)
Report on the work of the United Nations Open-
ended Informal Consultative Process on Oceans 
and the Law of the Sea at its seventeenth 
meeting (A/71/204)
Draft resolution (A/71/L.26)
(b) Sustainable fisheries, including through the 
1995 Agreement for the Implementation of the 
Provisions of the United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating 
to the Conservation and Management of 
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory 
Fish Stocks, and related instruments
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/351)
Draft resolution (A/71/L.24)
Ms.  Yparraguirre  (Philippines):  The  Philippines 
extends its thanks and appreciation to South Africa and 
Norway  for  coordinating  our  annual  draft  resolutions 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  (A/71/L.26)  and 
sustainable  fisheries  (A/71/L.24)  and  to  Palau  for 
its  work  on  the  draft  resolution  on  World  Tuna  Day 
(A/71/L.27).
As  another  year  draws  to  a  close,  it  comes  as  no 
surprise  that  we  will  adopt  the  first  two  annual  draft 
resolutions  on  the  most  massive  and  comprehensive 
subject  that  we  consider  every  year.  After  all,  water 
covers  more  than  two  thirds  of  the  Earth’s  surface, 
and  one  half  of  that  surface  comprises  the  high  seas, 
which  are  beyond  the  jurisdiction  of  any  State.  Our 
sustained  global  cooperation  is  therefore  paramount. 
Sustainable Development Goal 14 of our 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development binds us to conserve and 
sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources. 
They  form  an  integral  and  essential  component  of 
the  planet’s  ecosystem  and  are  therefore  critical  to 
sustaining it.
The  Philippines  is  a  State  party  to  the  1995 
Agreement  for  the  Implementation  of  the  Provisions 
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation 
and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-42334 (E)
*1642334*
A/71/PV.55 
07/12/2016
Migratory Fish Stocks, and related instruments. We are 
committed to the conservation and optimum utilization 
of  straddling  and  highly  migratory  fish  stocks,  both 
within and beyond the exclusive economic zone, and the 
management of those stocks based on a precautionary 
approach and the best available scientific information. 
The Philippines is also committed through the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(Rio+20) 
illegal,  unreported  and 
unregulated  fishing,  and  subsidies  that  contribute 
to  such  fishing  and  overcapacity,  and  to  enhancing 
actions to protect vulnerable marine ecosystems from 
significant adverse impacts.
to  eliminating 
The draft resolution on oceans and the law of the 
sea  before  us  articulates  our  deepening  concern  over 
the  continued  threat  of  human  activity  on  marine 
environments and biodiversity. It reaffirms our Rio+20 
commitments  to  improve  our  understanding  of  the 
adverse impact of climate change on oceans and seas. 
We  look  forward  to  the  next  Informal  Consultative 
Process next May on the effects of climate change on 
the  oceans.  We  will  also  follow  the  Regular  Process 
for  Global  Reporting  and  Assessment  of  the  State  of 
the  Marine  Environment,  including  Socioeconomic 
Aspects, which has entered its second cycle. Consistent 
with 
the 
Implementation  of  the  Global  Programme  of  Action 
for  the  Protection  of  the  Marine  Environment  from 
Land-based  Activities,  we  must  enhance  our  action 
to  address  marine  pollution,  including  marine  debris, 
which compromises the health of the oceans and marine 
biodiversity. We need to neutralize, if not reverse, the 
adverse  economic,  social  and  environmental  impacts 
of  the  physical  alteration  and  destruction  of  marine 
habitats that might result from land-based and coastal 
development activities.
the  Manila  Declaration  on  Furthering 
Moreover,  in  remaining  consistent  with  the  2010 
Manila amendments to the International Convention on 
Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping 
for  Seafarers,  we  must  enhance  maritime  safety  and 
security, and combat piracy. The Philippines once again 
calls  on  all  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  ratify 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
(UNCLOS),  our  constitution  for  the  oceans  and  seas, 
and contribute to its universality. UNCLOS has become 
the  key  to  ensuring  global  and  regional  peace  in  our 
just and sustainable use of the world’s oceans and their 
resources, representing a delicate and careful balance of 
the rights and obligations of all States parties, whether 
big or small, rich or poor, or coastal or landlocked.
Our  commitment  to  the  rule  of  law  and  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes extends to the 12 July 
award  rendered  by  the  arbitral  tribunal  constituted 
under  annex  VII  of  UNCLOS  for  the  settlement  of 
disputes. In clarifying the maritime entitlements of the 
relevant parties, that decision has upheld the primacy 
of  international  law  as  the  cornerstone  for  a  rules-
based  regional  and  international  order.  It  is  final  and 
binding on the parties and is now part of international 
jurisprudence in the maritime domain.
In that spirit, the Philippines reaffirms its support 
for the treaty bodies. We continue to follow the judicial 
work  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the 
Sea, and we join in the commemoration of its twentieth 
anniversary this year. We also attach great importance 
to  the  work  of  the  International  Seabed  Authority, 
which  seeks  to  more  equitably  and  more  sustainably 
manage  the  mineral-related  activities  in  the  Area  and 
our common heritage and its contribution to capacity-
building  and  marine  scientific  research.  We  also 
applaud  the  progress  in  the  work  of  the  Commission 
on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  in  considering 
submissions  on  the  establishment  of  the  outer  limits 
of the continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles, in 
conformity with article 76 of UNCLOS.
international 
legally  binding 
The Philippines looks forward to another important 
year  next  year,  when  we  will  discuss  the  specifics  of 
a  future 
instrument 
under  UNCLOS  on  the  conservation  and  sustainable 
use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of  areas  beyond 
national jurisdiction. We will also dissect Sustainable 
Development Goal 14 at a conference meant to address 
how  to  best  conserve  and  sustainably  use  the  oceans, 
seas and marine resources for sustainable development.
Mr. Wu Haitao (China) (spoke in Chinese): The past 
year  witnessed  remarkable  achievements  in  the  work 
of  the  three  institutions  that  are  based  on  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, namely, the 
International Seabed Authority (ISA), the Commission 
on the Limits of the Continental Shelf (CLCS) and the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  In  that 
connection,  I  wish  to  express  my  congratulations  on 
their achievements.
I also wish to thank the Division for Ocean Affairs 
and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  its  diligent  work  as  the 
secretariat that has ensured the smooth conduct of the 
2/20 
16-42334
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.55
necessary  work.  Draft  resolutions  A/71/L.26,  entitled 
“Oceans,  the  law  of  the  sea”,  and  A/71/L.24,  on 
sustainable fisheries, take stock of overall developments 
in international oceans and the law of the sea over the 
past  year.  Draft  resolution  A/71/L.27,  on  World  Tuna 
Day,  is  of  great  significance,  as  it  demonstrates  our 
commitment  to  the  protection  of  marine  biological 
resources.  The  Chinese  delegation  has  played  an 
active and constructive part in the consultations on the 
aforementioned resolutions. I would also like to express 
my appreciation to the facilitators for their efforts and 
contributions. While much progress has been made in 
the area of the oceans and the law of the sea, many new 
issues and challenges have also emerged. In that regard, 
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  share  the  Chinese 
position and ideas.
First  of  all,  we  should  strengthen  international 
cooperation so as to realize the sustainable development 
of  the  oceans  and  seas,  which  are  the  home  of  all 
humankind  and  a  valuable  space  for  sustainable 
development.  The  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable 
Development sets a higher bar for us in the protection 
and  sustainable  use  of  the  oceans  and  seas.  We  must 
foster  the  awareness  of  a  community  of  humankind 
with a shared future and engaged in close cooperation. 
We  must  join  hands  in  tackling  various  challenges 
relating to the oceans and seas. China has put forward 
initiatives for developing the blue economy and building 
the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road, which we believe 
would  greatly  promote  international  cooperation  on 
maritime  affairs.  China  hopes  that  the  international 
community  will  jointly  promote  the  implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  to 
realize sustainable marine development.
Secondly,  we  must  promote  the  rule  of  law  on 
the oceans and seas and establish and maintain a fair 
and  reasonable  maritime  order.  The  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  has  provided  a 
comprehensive  legal  framework  and  the  foundation 
for  the  maritime  activities  of  States  parties.  It  has 
set  forth  balanced  provisions  regarding  the  rights 
and  obligations  of  States  parties  with  regard  to  the 
peaceful use and conservation of the oceans and seas. 
All parties must uphold the purposes and principles of 
the Convention and interpret and apply the Convention 
and  its  dispute-settlement  mechanism  with  goodwill 
and  in  an  accurate  and  comprehensive  manner,  and 
must avoid abusing its provisions. In that respect, the 
Tribunal can play a more positive role. This year marks 
the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Tribunal,  and  China 
wishes to congratulate it on its achievements over the 
past  20  years.  We  hope  the  Tribunal  will  continue  to 
make efforts to effectively safeguard the authority and 
integrity of the Convention.
China  appreciates  the  positive  contribution  made 
by  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental 
Shelf to maintaining the balance of the legitimate rights 
and  interests  of  coastal  States,  on  the  one  hand,  and 
the  overall  interests  of  the  international  community, 
on  the  other.  The  Commission  also  seeks  to  promote 
the  stability  of  the  international  maritime  order.  We 
support  the  Commission  in  its  efforts  to  continue  to 
fulfil its responsibilities, in strict compliance with the 
Convention and its own rules of procedure. 
Thirdly, we must fully coordinate our positions and 
steadily  advance  international  maritime  governance. 
Right now, the attention of the international community 
is  focused  on  the  negotiation  of  an  international 
agreement  on  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use 
of  marine  biological  diversity  beyond  the  areas  of 
national jurisdiction. Parties should engage in thorough 
exchanges  and  consultations  during  the  negotiations, 
and  fully  consider  the  legitimate  need  of  countries, 
developing  countries  in  particular,  to  use  marine 
biological  resources.  Parties  should  also  advance  the 
negotiation process steadily. It is undesirable to seek a 
result in haste. The new agreement must not compromise 
the rights of navigation, scientific research, fishing and 
mining that countries enjoy under the Convention.
The priority of the work of the International Seabed 
Authority  is  to  formulate  regulations  governing  the 
exploitation  of  seabed  resources.  As  such  regulations 
bear  most  directly  on 
the 
international  seabed  mineral  resources,  the  Authority 
needs  to  hear  the  views  and  ideas  of  all  sides,  take  a 
prudent approach in its considerations and conduct its 
work in a progressive manner and on a sound scientific 
and factual basis.
the  exploitation  of 
attaches 
The  Chinese  Government 
great 
importance  to  and  actively  supports  international 
endeavours in the areas of  oceans affairs and the law 
of the sea, and has made donations, within its capacity, 
to ISA and CLCS in support of their work. China is in 
favour of the provisions in this year’s draft resolution 
on oceans and the law of the sea that seek to include the 
landlocked  developing  countries  and  middle-income 
countries  in  difficult  circumstances  in  the  scope  of 
16-42334
3/20
A/71/PV.55 
07/12/2016
capacity-building  assistance  and  technical  assistance. 
We believe that this is conducive to promoting a greater 
contribution of developing countries to the oceans and 
the  law  of  the  sea  affairs  and  will  be  helpful  to  the 
common development of all countries.
China  highly  values  peace  and  stability  in  the 
South China Sea. We have always taken a constructive 
and responsible approach in addressing the issue of the 
South China Sea. Currently, thanks to the joint efforts of 
China and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, 
the situation in the South China Sea is developing in a 
positive direction. The issue is back on the right track of 
dialogue and consultations. We hope that all countries 
concerned will work with us to seek a solution to the 
dispute  through  negotiations  and  consultations  in  a 
joint effort to maintain peace and stability in the South 
China Sea. The so-called arbitration on the South China 
Sea  is,  however,  null  and  void  and  is  absolutely  not 
binding. China does not accept it, has not participated 
in  it  and  does  not  recognize  it.  In  the  interest  of  the 
international rule of law, the page has been turned on 
the so-calledarbitration.
China  will  always  act  as  a  defender  of  the 
international  maritime  rule  of  law,  a  builder  of 
a  harmonious  maritime  order  and  a  promoter  of 
sustainable  marine  development.  We  look  forward  to 
continued  efforts  to  strengthen  cooperation  with  all 
countries  so  as  to  further  promote  the  protection  and 
sustainable use of oceans and seas.
Mr.  Drobnjak  (Croatia):  Croatia  aligns  itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  earlier  by  the  observer 
of  the  European  Union  (see  A/71/PV.54).  I  will  make 
several brief remarks and limit them to draft resolution 
A/71/L.27, on the proclamation of World Tuna Day.
As  a  country  with  more  than  6,000  kilometres  of 
coastline  along  our  mainland  and  islands  combined, 
Croatia  is  proud  to  be  one  of  the  sponsors  of  the 
draft  resolution.  The  fact  that  it  has  attracted  almost 
60  sponsors  from  all  regions  of  the  world  confirms 
the  awareness  of  global  communities  of  the  need  to 
safeguard  tuna,  and  through  it,  protect  the  value  of 
world oceans and seas and their resources. In particular, 
Croatia would like to express its gratitude to the Republic 
of  Nauru  and  the  other  countries  of  the  Pacific  small 
island developing States group for their engagement in 
presenting draft resolution A/71/L.27, which serves as 
a testament to the high level of the world’s awareness 
of the efforts to protect and safeguard the tuna species.
Tuna  fishing  has  had  a  long  tradition  in  Croatia 
since  the  fifteenth  century,  and  that  highly  valuable 
and nutritious fish species has proven to be a precious 
commodity  and  food  source  for  generations  of 
Croatians.  With  the  aim  of  honouring  the  tuna,  once 
Croatia  had  gained  independence  and  started  minting 
its own coins, our country paid tribute to the tuna fish 
in 1994 by putting it on its two-kuna coin. Croatia thus 
stands proud as the only country in the world with the 
tuna fish featured on its official currency.
Tuna fishing and farming form an important part 
of the local economy of Croatia’s coastal regions. The 
Atlantic bluefin tuna is the most widespread species in the 
Adriatic Sea and an important export product of Croatia 
that  is  sold  worldwide.  Needless  to  say,  tuna  stocks 
are not infinite. In fact, the species is classified today 
as  “endangered”  by  the  Convention  on  International 
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. 
Therefore,  every  national  and  international  effort  to 
protect and conserve the species is as important as it is 
necessary, whether on the part of national authorities or 
on the part of international organizations.
like-minded  countries 
In  closing,  Croatia  is  looking  forward  to  further 
cooperation  with  all 
in 
protecting the tuna species. Let us hope that the newly 
proclaimed  World  Tuna  Day  will  send  a  strong  and 
positive  message  aimed  at  raising  awareness  of  the 
importance and vulnerability of the species. By doing 
so, the world community will help in preserving tuna 
as  a  food  resource  as  well  as  a  driver  of  economic 
development and employment for coastal communities. 
Moreover, it will serve as another small but important 
positive contribution towards the implementation of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Ms.  Sigurðardóttir  (Iceland):  The  oceans  are  of 
fundamental importance to all life on earth. They are 
important in food security, as routes for international 
transportation and communication, and as factors in the 
world’s  weather  and  climate  systems.  It  is  imperative 
for all of us, individually and collectively, to keep our 
oceans clean and the marine environment healthy.
The many yearly activities related to oceans and the 
law of the sea at the United Nations are a testament to 
the importance of that field. The United Nations Open-
ended  Informal  Consultative  Process  on  Oceans  and 
the Law of the Sea, the Regular Process and the annual 
negotiations  on  the  two  landmark  draft  resolutions 
that we are discussing today are a few examples of the 
4/20 
16-42334
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.55
numerous  oceans-related  processes.  Additionally,  this 
year we undertook reviews of the 1995 United Nations 
Fish  Stocks  Agreement  and  the  impacts  of  bottom 
fishing on vulnerable marine ecosystems.
The  entry  into  force  of  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  Agreement  on 
Port  State  Measures  to  Prevent,  Deter  and  Eliminate 
Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing in June is 
welcomed by Iceland, as it provides an important tool 
to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and 
unregulated fishing.
The importance of oceans is further confirmed by 
Sustainable Development Goal 14, which addresses the 
conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  oceans,  seas  and 
marine resources. Seas and oceans have great potential 
for innovation and growth in a number of sectors and 
in  contributing  to  poverty  eradication  and  sustained 
economic growth. 
the 
the 
The  sustainable  management  of  the  oceans  will 
be  in  focus  next  year  at  both  the  High-level  Political 
Forum on Sustainable Development and the Conference 
to  Support 
Implementation  of  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  14,  which  is  meant  to  underpin 
existing  processes  and  encourage  wider  partnerships 
in that field. Iceland will participate actively in those 
events,  sharing  experiences  and  working  with  other 
stakeholders  to  mark  the  way  towards  achieving  our 
common goal of healthy oceans and the sustainable use 
of marine resources.
Iceland  stresses 
including 
oceans-related considerations in the implementation of 
climate  policies.  According  to  scientific  information, 
the period from 2011 to 2015 was the warmest five-year 
period on record globally, with 2015 the warmest year 
on  record  to  date.  Arctic  sea  ice  continued  its  rapid 
decline in the same period, reaching the lowest winter 
maximum  on  record  in  2016  for  the  second  year  in  a 
row. In Iceland, we are also witnessing the accelerating 
recession of our glaciers and record high temperatures 
in recent years.
importance  of 
That development has direct consequences for the 
oceans. Global sea levels have continued to rise in recent 
years,  fish  stocks  are  changing  distribution  owing  to 
changing temperatures in the oceans, and within a few 
decades we may even see an ice-free Arctic during the 
summer. Orchestrated action in that field by the global 
community has never been more urgent. We therefore 
welcome  the  decision  by  the  Assembly  to  focus  the 
discussions  at  the  next  Informal  Consultative  Process 
on the theme of the effects of climate change on oceans.
International  cooperation,  coordinated  solutions 
and a common legal framework are needed to address 
the  challenges  facing  the  oceans  and  the  marine 
environment.  The  core  international  legal  instrument 
in that field is the 1982 United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), which establishes the 
overarching legal framework within which all activities 
on the oceans and seas must be carried out.
Two implementing agreements under UNCLOS are 
already in force, and the General Assembly decided in 
resolution 69/292 to commence development of a third 
one. A Preparatory Committee was established by that 
resolution  to  develop  an  international  legally  binding 
instrument  under  UNCLOS  on  the  conservation  and 
sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of 
areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction,  and  it  has  worked 
diligently this past year under the able chairmanship of 
His Excellency Ambassador Eden Charles of Trinidad 
and  Tobago.  By  the  end  of  next  year,  the  Committee 
will  make  substantive 
the 
General Assembly on the elements of a draft text of an 
international, legally binding instrument on that issue.
Iceland  participates  actively  in  that  work  and 
has  consistently  emphasized  the  importance  of  the 
mandate  of  resolution  69/292.  Issues  already  subject 
to  an  adequate  international  legal  regime  should  not 
be reopened, and, as prescribed in paragraph 3 of that 
resolution, the work 
recommendations 
to 
“should  not  undermine  existing  relevant  legal 
instruments  and  frameworks  and  relevant  global, 
regional and sectoral bodies”.
A  good  example  of  that  is  high-seas  fisheries,  which 
are  subject  to  the  legal  regime  of  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
Convention, which is complemented by the 1995 United 
Nations Fish Stocks Agreement. The future instrument 
governing  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction  must, 
accordingly,  adapt  to  those  and  other  existing  legal 
instruments. 
In  Iceland’s  view,  the  greatest  challenge  for  the 
negotiations  on  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use 
of marine biological diversity beyond areas of national 
jurisdiction will be finding a solution to how this can 
best  be  done.  We  look  forward  to  the  constructive 
work of the Preparatory Committee in 2017 and to its 
consensus-based outcome before the end of next year.
16-42334
5/20
A/71/PV.55 
07/12/2016
Iceland  attaches  great  importance  to  the  work  of 
the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf. 
We take note of the serious concern expressed in draft 
resolution A/71/L.26 on the oceans and the law of the 
sea  with  respect  to  the  critical  lack  of  funds  in  the 
voluntary  trust  fund  for  the  purpose  of  defraying  the 
cost of participation of developing States members of 
the  Commission  in  the  meetings  of  the  Commission. 
We will continue to make contributions to the trust fund 
and encourage other Member States to do the same.
This year, we celebrate the twentieth anniversary of 
the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. Iceland 
pays  tribute  to  the  Tribunal’s  important  contribution 
to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  concerning  the 
law of the sea. As we approach the election of judges 
next year, we are encouraged by nominations of female 
candidates and hope for a better gender balance in the 
very near future.
Iceland highly appreciates the valuable assistance 
States enjoy in their work in the field of oceans and the 
law  of  the  sea.  We  are  particularly  grateful  to  all  the 
able staff at the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law 
of the Sea for their unflagging support and outstanding 
work. We also want to commend the facilitator of the 
draft  resolution  on  sustainable  fisheries  (A/71/L.24), 
Mr.  Andreas  Kravik  of  Norway,  and  the  facilitator 
of  the  draft  resolution  on  oceans  and  law  of  the  sea 
(A/71/L.26),  Mr.  Thembile  Joyini  of  South  Africa, 
for  their  professional  work  and  able  stewardship  in 
the  negotiations  of  these  draft  resolutions.  Finally, 
we  would  like  to  thank  their  predecessors,  Ms.  Alice 
Revell of New Zealand and Ambassador Eden Charles 
of  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  for  their  excellent  work  in 
recent years.
Iceland is heavily dependent on the sustainable use 
of living marine resources. Healthy oceans and robust 
marine ecosystems remain a constant concern for our 
nation  of  seafarers  and  fishermen,  and  international 
cooperation towards that aim is a long-standing priority 
for us. We therefore welcome the adoption of the two 
annual  landmark  resolutions  in  this  field,  as  well  as 
draft  resolution  A/71/L.27  on  World  Tuna  Day  under 
discussion here today. Iceland stands ready for another 
active year of ocean affairs in 2017.
Mr.  Daunivalu  (Fiji):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
thanking  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
convening today’s debate under  sub-items (a) and (b) 
of agenda item 73, on oceans and the law of the sea and 
sustainable fisheries, respectively. These are of course 
issues of great importance to Fiji and the Pacific. The 
growing  prominence  of  oceans  issues  at  the  United 
Nations in 2016, and, naturally, in the coming year, is 
indeed gratifying for us and indicative of the President’s 
strong commitment to the oceans.
Fiji  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made  by 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Palau  on  behalf  of 
the  Pacific  small  island  developing  States  and  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Micronesia  on  behalf  of 
the Pacific Islands Forum (see A/71/PV.54).
We  join  other  delegations  in  commending  the 
work  done  by  Mr.  Thembile  Joyini  of  South  Africa, 
Mr. Andreas Kravik of Norway and Mrs. Margo Deiye 
of  Nauru  in  coordinating,  under  the  current  agenda 
item, the draft resolutions on oceans and the law of the 
sea (A/71/L.26), sustainable fisheries (A/71/L.24) and 
World Tuna Day (A/71/L.27), respectively.
Fiji  attaches  great  importance  to  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). 
It  is  a  monumental  achievement  of  the  international 
community of the United Nations, which has provided 
the very foundation that gives life to the governance of 
our oceans and the law of the sea. Our commitment to 
UNCLOS is reflected by the fact that Fiji was the first 
country to ratify the Convention in 1982.
For  Fiji,  a  large-ocean  State,  the  ocean  is  the 
lifeblood  of  its  economy  and  its  people.  The  ocean 
provides us with one of our key sources of income and 
therefore of economic growth and development, which 
speaks volumes for our active involvement in oceans-
related  issues  at  the  United  Nations.  We  very  much 
welcome the adoption of the draft resolution on World 
Tuna Day, the adoption of which will certainly help raise 
awareness  annually  on  the  critical  challenges  facing 
our world fisheries today, including, inter alia, illegal, 
unreported and unregulated fishing and overfishing. In 
the same vein, we look forward to the adoption of the 
draft resolutions on oceans and the law of the sea and 
on sustainable fisheries, which have been strengthened 
this year by the convening of the Fish Stocks Agreement 
Review Conference held in May 2016.
We  emphasize  the  vulnerability  of  Fiji  and  other 
countries  in  our  region  in  face  of  such  threats  as 
rising  sea  levels,  climate  change,  ocean  acidification, 
marine  pollution,  depletion  of  fish  stocks  and  the 
unpredictability of weather patterns, to name but a few. 
These  are  long-standing  issues  that  have  been  raised 
6/20 
16-42334
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.55
time and again at the United Nations. Addressing them 
will certainly require us to move beyond the business-
as-usual  approach.  The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  with  the  stand-alone 
Sustainable Development Goal 14, on oceans, is a step 
in the right direction and reflects the diverse approaches 
taken to address oceans issues.
The  year  2017  marks  a  very  important  year  for 
oceans, when the global community will come together 
in New York from 5 to 9 June for the high-level United 
Nations Conference to Support the Implementation of 
Sustainable  Development  Goal  14.  Fiji,  together  with 
Sweden,  as  hosts  of  the  Conference,  would  like  to 
encourage  all  Member  States  to  participate  at  a  high 
level. The June 2017 Conference will be a moment of 
truth as far as the oceans are concerned. It will provide 
an opportunity for all stakeholders to come together to 
learn  more  about  the  truth  of  the  current  state  of  the 
oceans and what needs to be done to ensure we reverse 
the decline in their health.
The Conference is expected to be the game-changer 
that the ocean desperately needs to galvanize support 
and  resolve  once  and  for  all  for  taking  affirmative 
steps  towards  saving  the  oceans.  At  the  Conference, 
we  encourage  all  Governments  to  come  forward  and 
devise  an  ambitious  call  to  action  to  set  a  positive 
tone.  More  importantly,  however,  we  encourage  all 
other  stakeholders  to  participate  at  the  partnership 
dialogues  and  build  successful  partnerships  with  a 
view  to  advancing  the  implementation  of  Sustainable 
Development Goal 14.
Mrs. Rolón Candia (Paraguay) (spoke in Spanish): 
At  the  outset,  my  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Zambia  on 
behalf of the group of landlocked developing countries 
(see A/71/PV.54). In our national capacity, we wish to 
make a few comments.
We too thank the Secretary-General for his report 
on oceans and the law of the sea (A/71/74) and for the 
other documents related to the topic. We also wish to 
take this occasion to express the high value we attach to 
the work of the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law 
of the Sea, within the Office of Legal Affairs.
This is the first time that Paraguay is co-sponsoring 
the  annual  draft  resolution  on  oceans  and  the  law  of 
the  sea  (A/71/L.26),  which  will  be  submitted  to  the 
General Assembly for adoption in the next several days. 
We welcome the fact that the text includes references 
to 
to  landlocked  developing  countries  and,  in  particular, 
references 
capacity-building.  For  Paraguay, 
the  inclusion  of  countries  with  our  geographical 
characteristics 
the 
challenge  of  sustainably  using  marine  resources  is 
global and involves all humankind. We are aware that 
any  action  taken  in  the  marine  environment  entails 
consequences that will eventually affect all countries, 
not just coastal States.
represents  progress  because 
The value of the oceans and seas is incalculable for 
humankind. My delegation recalls the commitment of 
the entire international community to the conservation 
and  appropriate  use  of  the  marine  environment.  We 
believe that a large share of our efforts must be directed 
towards  that  end.  Accordingly,  members  should  pay 
heed to the conclusions of the report of the Secretary-
General  with  regard  to  the  negative  effects  that  will 
impact the oceans unless urgent measures are taken on 
a global scale to guide human behaviour and activities 
towards a more sustainable use of the oceans. 
With 
the  adoption  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development and the signing of the Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  under  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
we  have  made  progress  in  establishing  frameworks 
for  action  for  the  years  to  come.  The  challenge  lies 
in implementation. We emphasize that our work must 
be general and collective, with a view to carrying out 
effective  actions  that  encourage  the  use  of  resources 
in  a  responsible  manner.  We  understand,  therefore, 
the  necessity  of  our  participation  in  international  and 
regional forums on matters pertaining to the oceans and 
seas in order to transofrm our invaluable experiences 
into policies that should contribute to the sustainability 
of resources.
We remind the General Assembly that landlocked 
developing  countries  represent  12.5  per  cent  of  the 
Earth’s surface, approximately 4 per cent of the world’s 
population  and,  at  the  United  Nations,  slightly  more 
than 16 per cent of its membership. Most global trade 
is  facilitated  through  the  oceans  and  seas.  That  is  an 
inescapable  reality  for  my  country.  The  sustained 
growth  of  our  economy  has  led  to  an  increase  in 
trade  leading  to  a  greater  demand  for  the  transport 
of exported and imported goods — a demand that, in 
turn,  has  favoured  the  development  of  transportation 
services. Today, Paraguay has the third largest fleet of 
inland navigation vessels in the world, which transport 
goods along rivers and connect to high-seas vessels. In 
16-42334
7/20
A/71/PV.55 
07/12/2016
that context, Paraguay reaffirms that landlocked States 
must enjoy the freedom of transit through the territory 
of transit States by all means of transport under articles 
87,  91  and  125  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  and  in  accordance 
with the Vienna Programme of Action for Landlocked 
Developing (resolution 69/137).
in 
Paraguay  participated 
the  negotiations  on 
UNCLOS,  one  of  the  most  important  multilaterally 
agreed instruments in history. It represents a concrete 
example  of  humankind’s  collective  efforts  in  the 
drafting  of  an  instrument  that  regulates  the  use  of 
one  of  the  vital  resources  of  the  planet,  and  its  scope 
encompasses  the  political,  economic  and  strategic 
spheres.  The  Convention  has  been  in  force  for  more 
than two decades and is no stranger to the challenges 
that  globalization  and  growth  in  trade  represent.  My 
delegation understands that it is possible to improve the 
conservation and sustainable use of ocean resources in 
accordance with international law, which means that it 
is necessary to continue to strengthen the institutions 
created under the Convention.
Finally, in that regard, the delegation of Paraguay, 
now more than ever, encourages all States to consider 
the  consequences  of  pressures  placed  on  the  seas 
and  oceans  that  can  seriously  affect  the  lives  of 
future generations.
Mr.  Arrocha  Olabuenaga  (Mexico)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  At  the  outset,  my  delegation  would  like 
to  thank  Mr.  Thembile  Joyini  of  South  Africa  and 
Mr.  Andreas  Kravik  of  Norway  for  having  facilitated 
the omnibus draft resolution A/71/L.26, on oceans and 
the law of the sea, and draft resolution A/71/L.24, on 
sustainable  fisheries,  respectively,  and  for  their  work 
during  the  intensive  rounds  of  negotiations  that  were 
held.  Similarly,  we  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
delegation  of  Nauru  for  its  work  on  draft  resolution 
A/71/L.27,
 on establishing World Tuna Day.
I would like to take this opportunity to highlight in 
greater detail three aspects in connection with oceans 
and the law of the sea that are of particular relevance 
to my delegation. First, with respect to an international 
legally  binding  instrument  under  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity 
beyond areas of national jurisdiction, Mexico notes with 
satisfaction  the  work  carried  out  by  the  Preparatory 
Committee  during  the  two  meetings  that  were  held 
in  2016  with  a  view  to  drafting  a  legally  binding 
instrument.  In  that  vein,  we  commend  Ambassador 
Eden Charles of Trinidad and Tobago for his work.
We  welcome  the  progress  that  has  been  made, 
particularly  with  regard  to  the  guiding  principles 
for  that  instrument,  the  necessity  to  subordinate  the 
agreement  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and the need to respect the 
sovereignty  of  States  over  their  continental  shelf.  We 
expect that our work will continue in a positive manner 
to develop a future agreement during the two meetings 
to be held in 2017. 
Similarly, we underscore the work under way at the 
thirteenth Conference of the Parties to the Convention 
on  Biological  Diversity,  now  being  held  in  Mexico, 
particularly  in  connection  with  that  subject.  We 
hope  that,  within  the  framework  of  the  Conference, 
decisions  will  be  taken  to  step  up  the  protection  of 
biological diversity in oceans and seas. We also support 
the  idea  that  the  new  agreement  on  the  areas  beyond 
national 
jurisdiction  should  be  circumscribed  by 
UNCLOS,  while  providing  sufficient  and  appropriate 
complementary  elements  to  ensure  the  protection  of 
the  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction,  specifically  in 
matters relating to marine protection.
Secondly,  concerning  the  pollution  of  oceans 
and  seas  caused  by  plastic  and  microplastics,  Mexico 
welcomes  the  outcome  of  the  seventeenth  meeting  of 
the United Nations Open-ended Informal Consultative 
Process  on  Oceans  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  held  this 
past  June.  In  that  regard,  we  emphasize  the  need  to 
continue working in that area so as to better understand 
the  effects  of  such  debris  on  marine  ecosystems.  My 
delegation  is  concerned  about  the  lack  of  knowledge 
concerning  the  impact  of  marine  debris  on  marine 
ecosystems and species and on human health. We call 
8/20 
16-42334
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.55
for cooperation among States to confront the problem 
and to raise public awareness on the issue.
Finally, I will mention illegal trafficking at sea and 
the  illegal  trafficking  in  wildlife.  Mexico  notes  with 
satisfaction  the  addition  of  references  to  combating 
illegal  maritime  trade,  including  wildlife,  in  various 
paragraphs of the omnibus draft resolution. This is one 
of the priority areas in the current law of the sea agenda. 
We  further  wish  to  emphasize  the  usefulness  of 
various  international  conventions  in  place  to  fight 
illegal  trafficking  in  protected  species.  Their  various 
provisions  already  constitute  an  effective  means  of 
taking  action.  Mexico  is  party  to  those  conventions, 
and  we  hereby  reiterate  our  commitment  to  fighting 
such  illicit  trafficking  in  maritime  areas  under  our 
jurisdiction. 
In  conclusion,  Mexico  calls  upon  all  States  to 
cooperate  and  continue  working  to  reduce  instances 
of  illicit  trafficking  within  the  framework  of  relevant 
international conventions. 
Mr.  Zagaynov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  For  our  country,  a  major  maritime  Power, 
improving  international  cooperation  in  the  global 
oceans is of special importance. We are grateful to the 
Secretary-General  for  the  preparation  of  detailed  and 
very informative reports on this issue. 
We take note of the work carried out by the bodies 
created pursuant to the United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea. We would like to congratulate the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  on  the 
twentieth anniversary of its founding and on the success 
of  the  events  that  have  been  held  to  celebrate  that 
milestone.  The  Tribunal  approached  this  anniversary 
with substantial successes. 
Next year will mark the thity-fifth anniversary of 
the establishment of the Commission on the Limits of 
the Continental Shelf. Its burden of work grows from 
year to year. We would like to draw the attention of the 
members of the Assembly to the necessity of ensuring 
appropriate  conditions  of  service  for  the  members  of 
the Commission, including the long-standing problem 
of  their  medical  insurance  coverage  while  in  New 
York. Important and technically complex tasks face the 
International Seabed Authority. 
We  are  convinced  that  measures  to  conserve  and 
sustainably  use  the  global  oceans’  resources  must  be 
crafted on solid scientific foundations. That is why our 
delegation  has  consistently  championed  the  regular 
process  of  the  Global  Assessment  of  the  State  of  the 
Marine Environment. The painstaking work of experts 
within  the  framework  of  the  first  assessment  cycle 
enabled us to gather and organize a great deal of very 
useful  information.  We  welcome  the  preparations  for 
the second cycle of Global Assessment and expect it to 
be successful. 
We note the rich discussion during the seventeenth 
session of the Informal Consultative Process on the issue 
of maritime debris, plastics and microplastics. We view 
this forum as an important platform for the exchange 
of views on a broad gamut of issues. It should continue 
to be held regularly. Special attention must be devoted 
to the issues of the conservation and sustainable use of 
marine biodiversity beyond national jurisdictions. 
The  Russian  delegation  actively  participates 
in  the  work  of  the  relevant  Preparatory  Committee 
established by the General Assembly. Unfortunately, the 
Committee’s past two sessions have not thus far led to 
a convergence on positions on key issues, in particular 
the  scope  and  purpose  of  the  future  agreement  and 
the  profit-sharing  procedures  from  the  use  of  marine 
biodiversity.  Our  priorities  here  were  spelled  out  in 
detail during the work of the Committee. We would like 
to very briefly state the following.
On the whole, we believe that marine activity should 
not  be  restricted,  unless  based  on  solid  scientific  and 
international  legal  reasons.  A  possible  new  document 
on  marine  biodiversity  should  not,  in  our  view, 
duplicate or substitute existing mechanisms, including 
the 1995 Agreement on Straddling Fish Stocks and the 
system of regional fisheries management organizations 
(RFMOs) created pursuant to it. The 1995 Agreement is 
of great importance for the conservation of fish stocks 
and for providing for a genuinely sustainable industry. 
We  back  further  improvement  of  measures  to  combat 
illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. It is with 
satisfaction that we note the activity of the International 
Maritime  Organization  in  that  field,  inter  alia,  in  the 
area of strengthening real links between flag States and 
its vessels. We urge States to cooperate to create new 
RFMOs and enhance the effectiveness of existing ones.
Our delegation backs the adoption by the General 
Assembly of draft resolutions A/71/L.26 and A/71/L.24, 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  and  on  sustainable 
fishing, respectively. We convey our gratitude to those 
that have worked for draft resolution A/71/L.27, on World 
16-42334
9/20
A/71/PV.55 
07/12/2016
Tuna Day. We would like to thank the coordinators of 
the informal consultations and the staff of the Division 
of Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea, who have so 
unswervingly provided expert assistance to delegations 
in their work on the aforementioned documents. 
In conclusion, we would like to very briefly respond 
to  the  statement  made  by  the  Ukrainian  delegation, 
which  has  again  misused  the  rostrum  of  the  General 
Assembly. We again heard a number of unsubstantiated 
claims  that  bear  no  relation  to  the  agenda  item  being 
considered. Nevertheless, since we are talking about it 
now, we will clarify and explain yet again that Crimea 
is  now  part  of  the  Russian  Federation  as  a  result  of 
the  expression  of  free  will  of  the  population  of  the 
peninsula. Russia, as a coastal State, has its sovereignty 
and  rights  and  exerts  its  jurisdiction  over  maritime 
areas  in  accordance  with  international  law.  In  good 
faith, our country has fulfilled all its obligations under 
international maritime law when it comes to maritime 
areas,  which  its  sovereignty  and  jurisdiction  cover, 
including off the coast of Crimea.
Mrs.  Diéguez  La  O  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Cuba attaches crucial importance to the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea for the maintenance 
and strengthening of peace, order and the sustainable 
development of oceans and seas. The Convention is a 
true  milestone  in  the  codification  of  the  international 
law of the sea and has been ratified by the overwhelming 
majority of Member States. The Convention establishes 
an  appropriate  legal  framework,  which  is  universally 
recognized, within which all activities in the oceans and 
the seas should be carried out. It is important that the 
integrity of the United Nations Convention on the Law 
of the Sea be preserved and that all of its provisions be 
implemented as a whole. Oceans and the law of the sea 
affairs should fall under the supervision of the General 
Assembly to guarantee greater coherence in efforts to 
address  those  issues  and  to  equally  equal  benefit  all 
Member States. 
to 
implement  national  strategies  for 
Cuba has made and continues to make significant 
efforts 
the 
sustainable  development  and  protection  of  the  marine 
to  ensuring  coherent, 
environment  with  a  view 
progressive  and  effective 
implementation  of 
the 
Convention’s  provisions.  The  Cuban  State  has  a  solid 
institutional framework and national legislation related 
to the law of the sea, and the Government of Cuba is 
taking  all  steps  it  can  to  successfully  address  crimes 
at sea, for example, illicit trafficking in narcotics and 
psychotropic substances, illegal human trafficking and 
piracy. 
the 
Cuba  reiterates 
importance  of  bolstering 
international cooperation in the management of marine 
resources and in the protection of the oceans and their 
biodiversity,  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of 
international law, and of safeguarding the due respect 
for  the  jurisdiction  of  sovereign  States  over  their 
territorial  sea  and  in  the  management  of  resources  in 
the  exclusive  economic  zone  and  on  their  continental 
shelf.  We  firmly  support  the  commendable  work  of 
the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf 
and  urge  all  Member  States  to  provide  their  support, 
so that the Commission can carry out its work with the 
necessary resources. The Commission must be able to 
carry out its work quickly and effectively, and, at the 
same time, fulfil its established legal requirements. 
It 
important 
is  vitally 
to  preserve  marine 
biodiversity  resources  for  future  generations.  The 
regime  by  which  those  resources  are  exploited  will 
have a direct impact on many developing countries, the 
majority of which are small island States. Cuba supports 
efforts to achieve a convention on marine biodiversity 
beyond  the  areas  of  national  jurisdiction.  We  urge 
all  members  of  the  international  community  to  work 
together in the meetings of the Preparatory Committee 
on that topic, so that we can achieve concrete results by 
the end of next year and so that we can have a binding 
international instrument on that important issue. 
The continuing rise in sea levels and the increase in 
the effects of climate change in recent decades, given 
humankind’s predatory actions towards nature, threaten 
the territorial integrity of many States, especially small 
island States, some of which are doomed to disappear if 
immediate measures are not taken. The interconnection 
of oceanic systems and their close relationship with the 
dramatic climate change affecting humankind oblige us 
to comply urgently with the established commitments 
in both areas. Cuba reiterates its commitment to protect 
the environment and the law of the sea. 
We  cannot  conclude 
this  statement  without 
expressing  our  appreciation  for  the  work  carried  out 
by the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the 
Sea for its dedicated work in promoting the law of the 
sea  and  the  issues  related  to  oceans.  We  would  also 
like to thank the two coordinators of draft resolutions 
A/71/L.24  and  A/71/L.26,  which  we  are  considering 
10/20 
16-42334
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.55
today  and  which  will  be  adopted  with  the  support  of 
our delegation. 
Mr.  Sobral  Duarte  (Brazil):  Brazil  continues 
to  attach  great  importance  to  the  annual  debates  on 
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  Those  debates  reflect 
our  awareness  that  the  problems  of  the  ocean  space 
are  closely  interrelated  and  need  to  be  considered  as 
a  whole  and  with  the  broadest  possible  participation. 
They  also  attest  to  the  historical  significance  of  the 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  as 
an important contribution to the maintenance of peace, 
justice and progress for all of the peoples of the world.
In that regard, we would like to express our thanks 
for  the  reports  prepared  by  the  Secretary-General 
(A/71/74 and A/71/74/Add.1) and the work carried out 
by Director Gabriele Goettsche-Wanli and the Division 
for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea, which greatly 
help to inform and facilitate our debates. Let me also 
express  appreciation  for  the  spirit  of  cooperation  that 
continues to prevail in the crafting of both of the draft 
resolutions before us on oceans and the law of the sea 
(A/71/L.26)  and  sustainable  fisheries  (A/71/L.24).  In 
that regard, we would also like to thank Mr. Thembile 
Joyini  of  South  Africa  and  Mr.  Andreas  Kravik  of 
Norway  for  facilitating  the  informal  consultations  on 
those draft resolutions.
This year’s draft resolution on sustainable fisheries 
contains provisions that address critical issues, such as 
combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing 
and  ghost  fishing  and  the  importance  of  rebuilding 
stocks. We welcome the inclusion in the text of several of 
the recommendations made by the Review Conference 
on  the  Fish  Stocks  Agreement,  which  was  chaired  by 
Professor Fábio Hazin from Brazil.
Brazil  is  also  a  sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution 
on  World  Tuna  Day  (A/71/L.27),  and  we  appreciate 
the  efforts  carried  out  by  Nauru  to  facilitate  the 
negotiations  on  that  text.  We  reiterate  the  need  for 
enhanced cooperation in ensuring the sustainable use of 
such fisheries and the importance of strengthening the 
work carried out by the Joint Meeting of Tuna Regional 
Fisheries  Management  Organizations,  in  particular 
through  the  updating  of  their  legal  frameworks  and 
the  adoption  of  management  measures  in  line  with 
scientific advice.
Cooperation is also instrumental in the Preparatory 
Committee  process  dealing  with  fisheries  beyond  the 
areass  of  national  jurisdition.  The  engagement  of  all 
delegations  in  the  debates  held  during  the  first  and 
second  meetings  of  the  Preparatory  Committee  are 
key  to  advancing  towards  the  drafting  of  substantial 
recommendations to the General Assembly. For Brazil, 
accessing  and  sharing  benefits,  capacity-building  and 
the transfer of marine technology should be at the core 
of the envisaged instrument. Those elements are crucial 
to realizing one of the main purposes of the Convention, 
namely, that particular attention should be given to the 
special interests and needs of developing countries.
In  our  view,  the  fair  and  equitable  sharing  of  the 
benefits  that  arise  from  the  use  of  marine  genetic 
resources beyond national jurisdiction must, therefore, 
be ensured. Due consideration must be given not only 
to  the  development  of  a  mechanism  for  such  sharing 
of  benefits,  but  also  to  accessing  those  resources. 
Promoting  and  facilitating  access,  in  the  natural 
environment  or  through  data  samples,  will  contribute 
to creating sustainable and long-term benefits.
We continue to strongly support the Regular Process 
for  Global  Reporting  and  Assessment  of  the  State  of 
the  Marine  Environment,  including  Socioeconomic 
Aspects,  which  is  key  to  enhancing  the  scientific 
understanding  of  the  oceans  so  as  to  better  protect 
the  marine  environment.  We  thank  all  of  the  experts 
who  have  devoted  their  time  to  the  fulfilment  of  that 
important task. We also welcome the discussions held 
to  improve  the  process  in  its  second  phase  and  stress 
the importance of ensuring proper funding to achieve 
the goals of the process.
The Commission on the Limits of the Continental 
Shelf continues to be faced with several challenges. In 
addition to a heavy workload, it now faces the challenge 
of ensuring the proper participation of members from 
developing  countries  in  the  context  of  the  limited 
resources in the trust fund.
Last  year  marked  a  turning  point  with  respect  to 
the oceans, in view of the adoption of Goal 14 of the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  Brazil 
reaffirms its commitment to the full implementation of 
the 2030 Agenda and looks forward to contributing to 
the success of the Fiji Conference to be held next year.
The Acting President: In accordance with resolution 
51/6, of 24 October 1996, I call on the Secretary-General 
of the International Seabed Authority.
Mr.  Odunton  (International  Seabed  Authority): 
The International Seabed Authority is making its first 
16-42334
11/20
A/71/PV.55 
07/12/2016
intervention  at  the  seventy-first  session  of  the  United 
Nations General Assembly today. In that connection, I 
wish to express the Authority’s warmest congratulations 
to His Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson on his election as 
President of this organ. 
With  reference  to  the  draft  resolutions  on  the 
oceans and the law of the sea matters before the General 
Assembly, I express my appreciation to Member States 
for deeming it appropriate once again to highlight in the 
content of those draft resolutions some of the important 
and latest work of the International Seabed Authority. I 
express my thanks and gratitude for the detailed reports 
of the Secretary-General (A/71/74 and A/71/74/Add.1), 
which  once  again  provide  comprehensive  background 
information  on  oceans  and  law  of  the  sea  matters  for 
our review. The efforts and hard work of the dedicated 
Director  and  staff  of  the  Division  for  Ocean  Affairs 
and the Law of the Sea are much appreciated, and their 
continued  excellent  cooperation  with  the  secretariat 
of  the  International  Seabed  Authority  must  again 
be commended.
The draft resolution on oceans and the law of the 
sea (A/71/L.26) notes that 28 work plans for exploration 
for  the  three  mineral  resources  presently  identified 
by  the  Authority  have  been  approved  by  the  Council 
of the Authority. The Authority has signed three new 
exploration  contracts  so  far  this  year.  Two  are  for 
polymetallic  nodules,  signed  with  United  Kingdom 
Seabed  Resources  Limited  on  29  March  and  with  the 
Cook Islands Investment Corporation on 15 July. The 
third plan of work is for polymetallic sulphides and was 
signed by the Government of India on 26 September.
It  is  anticipated  that  the  signing  of  the  two 
remaining  approved  plans  of  work  —  submitted  by 
China MinMetals Corporation for polymetallic nodules 
and  by  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  for 
polymetallic  sulphides  —  will  be  signed  prior  to  the 
twenty-third  session  of  the  Authority  in  July  2017. 
Following  the  signing  of  those  two  contracts,  the 
number  of  exploration  contracts  will  reach  28,  that 
is,  17  for  polymetallic  nodules,  six  for  polymetallic 
sulphides  and  five  for  cobalt-rich  ferromanganese 
crusts. On behalf of the Authority, I express my thanks 
and appreciation to those entities and their sponsoring 
States  for  their  commitment  to  the  concept  of  the 
common  heritage  of  humankind  and  their  confidence 
in the work of the Authority.
The  Council,  based  on  the  recommendations  of 
the  Legal  and  Technical  Commission,  approved  six 
applications for the extension of contracts for exploration 
for polymetallic nodules for another term of five years. 
The concerned contractors were Interoceanmetal Joint 
Organization,  Yuzhmorgeologiya,  the  Government  of 
the Republic of Korea, China Ocean Mineral Resources 
Research  and  Development  Association,  Deep  Ocean 
Resources  Development  Co.  Ltd.  and  the  French 
Research Institute for the Exploitation of the Sea. An 
additional  application  for  extension  was  received  in 
September from the Government of India, which will 
be considered by the Commission at its next meeting, in 
February 2017. I would like to encourage contractors to 
take advantage of the extension period of the contracts 
to strengthen cooperation in the development of mining 
technology and pilot tests of deep-sea mining.
Marine  environmental  protection  is  an  equally 
important  mandate  of  the  Authority,  and  we  have 
continued  to  request  all  contractors  to  make  their 
environmental data readily and publicly available. The 
Authority will shortly convene three workshops relating 
to that environmental work: a workshop to review the 
implementation of an environmental management plan 
for an area of the Pacific Ocean where we have the most 
nodule  contracts,  a  scientific  workshop  together  with 
marine-reserve  management  specialists  to  determine 
the  suitability  or  need  for  amendment  of  the  areas  of 
particular  environmental  interest,  and  a  workshop  on 
impact  reference  zones  and  preservation  reference 
zones. 
I  call  for 
the  broadest  participation  of  all 
concerned  States  parties,  observers  and  stakeholders 
in those workshops. References to and support for the 
Authority’s  role  in  the  promotion  of  marine  scientific 
research and the protection of the marine environment 
in the Area are commended.
Following 
the  Authority’s  workshops  on 
the 
taxonomic  standardization  of  the  macro,  micro  and 
meiofauna associated with polymetallic nodules in the 
Area, I am pleased to report that the contractors with 
the authority to explore for polymetallic nodules in the 
Area have begun to utilize those standards in reporting 
on the fauna in their exploration areas. To my mind, that 
is extremely important, since it enables the Authority 
to  obtain  the  necessary  information  to  protect  the 
marine  environment.  Such  taxonomic  standardization 
workshops  will  be  needed  for  polymetallic  sulphides 
and cobalt-rich ferromanganese crusts as well.
12/20 
16-42334
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.55
At  its  last  session,  the  Authority  took  decisive 
steps to adopt its budget, elect members of the Finance 
Committee  and  elect  members  of  the  Legal  and 
Technical  Commission  and  members  of  the  Council. 
The  Assembly  also  elected  Mr.  Michael  Lodge  of  the 
United Kingdom as the next Secretary-General of the 
Authority. The Assembly also continued its work on the 
article 154 periodic review of the regime of the Area, 
an  exercise  to  be  completed  during  the  twenty-third 
session, in 2017.
As  part  of  the  Authority’s  continued  work  on 
the  formulation  of  the  exploitation  framework  of 
minerals in the Area, I am happy to report that by the 
due  date,  a  total  of  45  submissions  were  received  on 
the  zero  draft  of  the  Exploitation  Regulation.  Among 
them, eight were submitted by Governments — seven 
members  and  one  observer  —  10  by  contractors,  one 
by an international organization and 19 by institutions 
and non-governmental organizations. I was concerned 
that no comments had been received from the African 
Group,  the  Eastern  European  Group  or  the  Group  of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States.  I  would  like 
to  urge  developing  States  to  get  more  involved  in  the 
formulation  of  the  exploitation  code,  which  would 
lead  to  the  implementation  of  the  principle  of  the 
common heritage of mankind, which promises to bring 
substantial economic interests to developing States.
Echoing  the  words  of  the  draft  resolution,  I  wish 
to  convey  the  Authority’s  appreciation  to  those  who 
have made contributions to the Authority’s Endowment 
Fund  and  its  Voluntary  Trust  Fund.  The  Authority’s 
Endowment Fund promotes and encourages the conduct 
of  collaborative  marine  scientific  research  in  the 
international seabed area for the benefit of humankind.
The General Assembly, as can be gathered from the 
text of the draft resolution, attaches great importance to 
capacity-building. Despite their not being specifically 
mentioned,  I  wish  to  refer  the  Assembly  to  the 
approximately  200  training  opportunities  that  will 
arise in the next five years as a result of contracts for 
exploration  that  have  been  issued  or  extended  by  the 
Authority since 2011. These opportunities include at-sea 
training,  doctorate  and  master’s  degree  programmes, 
workshop  internships,  fellowships  and  engineering 
programmes. I have no doubt that those opportunities 
will enhance the building of the capacities of developing 
States  in  marine  science  and  technology  development 
and  utilization,  as  well  as  in  the  law  of  the  sea  and 
the deep-sea mining regime. I urge Member States to 
realize the value of those training opportunities and to 
nominate  qualified  candidates  for  those  forthcoming 
training places.
In conclusion, the Authority has continued its full 
efforts,  within  its  resources,  towards  the  realization 
of  the  unique  regime  of  the  common  heritage  of 
humankind.  Since  this  is  the  last  time  that  I  address 
this  body  in  my  capacity  as  Secretary-General  of  the 
International Seabed Authority, I wish to recall a few 
matters that require our attention. I wish to point out, 
inter  alia,  the  need  for  pilot  mining  collector  tests  as 
our work progresses in establishing a regime for deep-
seabed mining. Such tests will enable us to ascertain the 
feasibility of mining and, at the same time, provide us 
with the necessary data and information to determine 
the environmental impact of the collectors, which will 
be  used  by  all  contractors  on  the  seabed  and  in  the 
marine environment. 
The  last  time  such  an  effort  was  undertaken  was 
in  1981  —  it  is  now  2016  —  and  while  the  urgency 
of  exploitation  is  frequently  mentioned,  we  have  yet 
to  establish  the  feasibility  of  deep-seabed  mining.  At 
such a critical juncture, I will once again iterate that it 
is essential for all members of the Authority to attend 
meetings,  in  particular  the  annual  regular  sessions  of 
the Authority.
As  Secretary-General  of  the  Authority,  I  have 
previously  addressed  the  General  Assembly  on  this 
agenda  item  seven  times.  This  is  my  eighth  time, 
and,  as  I  mentioned  before,  it  will  be  my  last.  I  wish 
to express my thanks to each and every Member State 
and  observer,  contractors  and  the  secretariat  of  the 
Authority for the support given to me during my term as 
leader of the organization. I have always been reassured 
by  the  support  of  the  General  Assembly,  encouraged 
by its cooperation and blessed by its understanding. I 
wish the incoming Secretary-General all the very best. 
Finally, to the Government and the people of Jamaica, 
the host country for the Authority, I say “big up”.
I  wish  everyone  here  a  merry  Christmas  and  a 
happy new year. I also support the adoption of the draft 
resolutions on this agenda item.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance  with  resolution  51/204,  of  17  December 
1996, I now call on Mr. Vladimir Golitsyn, President of 
the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. 
16-42334
13/20
A/71/PV.55 
07/12/2016
Mr.  Golitsyn  (International  Tribunal  for 
the 
Law  of  the  Sea):  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to  address 
the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  International 
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea during the Assembly’s 
consideration this year of agenda item 73, “Oceans and 
the law of the sea”. Before I begin my statement, let me 
first convey to the President of the General Assembly 
my congratulations on his election and wish him every 
success in the discharge of his responsibilities.
In  my  statement,  I  will  first  address  matters 
concerning  the  organization  of  the  Tribunal  and  then 
refer to the Tribunal’s recent judicial work.
First of all, I wish to pay tribute to Judge Antonio 
Cachapuz de Medeiros of Brazil, who passed away on 
15 September 2016. Judge Cachapuz de Medeiros had 
become a Member of the Tribunal on 15 January and, 
had he not died, his term of office would have ended 
on  30  September  2017.  I  should  like  to  inform  the 
Assembly that the election to fill the seat that became 
vacant after the death of Judge Cachapuz de Medeiros 
will be held in June 2017, at the next triennial election 
of seven members of the Tribunal whose terms of office 
will expire on 30 September 2017. In this regard, a note 
verbale was sent by the Registrar of the Tribunal to all 
States parties to the Convention on the Law of the Sea 
on 4 November 2016. In the coming days, States parties 
will also receive a note verbale calling for nominations 
for the triennial election of judges of the Tribunal.
With regard to organizational matters, I also wish 
to inform the Assembly that on 9 March, the Tribunal 
re-elected  Mr.  Philippe  Gautier  as  Registrar  of  the 
Tribunal for a term of office of five years.
As  we  are  aware,  2016  is  a  very  special  year  for 
the  Tribunal  because  it  commemorates  the  twentieth 
anniversary  of  its  establishment.  A  number  of  events 
were organized to mark the occasion. We are particularly 
grateful that the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, 
honoured  the  Tribunal  by  visiting  our  premises  on 
7  October  2016  and  by  meeting  the  members  of  the 
Tribunal and the staff of the Registry.
The Secretary-General was one of the speakers at a 
ceremony that took place on that day at the City Hall of 
Hamburg, Germany. On that occasion, statements were 
also made by the President of the Federal Republic of 
Germany,  the  First  Mayor  of  the  Free  and  Hanseatic 
City  of  Hamburg  and  myself.  More  than  500  guests 
attended  the  event,  which  was  organized  with  the 
support  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  and  the 
Free and Hanseatic Hamburg. To both, I wish to express 
our gratitude for their generosity.
The  ceremony  was  preceded  by  a 
two-day 
international symposium dedicated to the contribution 
of the Tribunal to the rule of law. This symposium was 
attended by over 150 participants, among them judges 
of the Tribunal, the International Court of Justice and 
other  judicial  institutions,  academics,  lawyers  and 
counsel who have appeared before international courts 
and  tribunals.  The  symposium  was  made  possible  by 
the  financial  support  of  the  Government  of  Japan,  to 
which  I  would  like  to  express  my  appreciation  for  its 
generous contribution.
Earlier this year, the Tribunal arranged another event 
in connection with its twentieth anniversary, namely, a 
round-table discussion on the role of the Tribunal in the 
settlement  of  law  of  the  sea  disputes.  This  event  was 
held in New York on 23 June 2016, during the Meeting 
of  States  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Convention 
on the Law of the Sea, and was well attended. It was 
organized with the financial contribution of the Korea 
Maritime Institute (KMI), for whose generosity I also 
wish to express our gratitude.
Let  me  now  turn  to  the  judicial  activity  of  the 
Tribunal in the past year. 
the  arrest  and  detention  of 
A  few  days  after  17  December  2015,  date  of  my 
last statement before the General Assembly (see A/70/
PV.69),  a  new  case  was  submitted  to  the  Tribunal: 
Panama  v.  Italy,  also  known  as  the  M/V  “Norstar”
case.  According  to  Panama’s  application,  the  dispute 
the  M/V 
concerned 
“Norstar”,  a  Panamanian-flagged  oil  tanker.  From 
1994  to  1998,  the  vessel  was  engaged  in  supplying 
gasoline to mega-yachts in an area described by Panama 
as  “international  waters  beyond  the  territorial  sea  of 
Italy, France and Spain” and described by Italy as “off 
the coasts of France, Italy and Spain”. In 1998, in the 
context of criminal proceedings, the Public Prosecutor 
at the Court of Savona, Italy, issued a Decree of Seizure 
against the M/V “Norstar” and requested the assistance 
of the Spanish authorities for its execution. The vessel 
was  then  seized  by  Spanish  authorities  when  it  was 
anchored in the bay of Palma de Mallorca, Spain.
On  11  March  2016,  Italy  raised  preliminary 
objections  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Tribunal  and  the 
admissibility of the application. Pursuant to the Rules 
of the Tribunal, proceedings on the merits of the case 
were  suspended,  submissions  were  filed  and  oral 
14/20 
16-42334
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.55
proceedings  took  place  on  the  preliminary  objections 
raised  by  Italy.  On  4  November  2016,  the  Tribunal 
delivered its judgment on the preliminary objections.
In  support  of  its  claim  that  the  Tribunal  had  no 
jurisdiction,  Italy  invoked  the  “non-existence  of  a 
dispute  concerning  the  interpretation  or  application 
of  the  Convention”,  the  “lack  of  jurisdiction  ratione 
personae”  and  “the  failure  by  Panama  to  fulfil  its 
obligations  regarding  an  exchange  of  views  under 
article  283  of  the  Convention”.  The  Tribunal  rejected 
each of those objections.
In  addressing  Italy’s  objection  based  on 
the 
non-existence of a dispute, the Tribunal examined the 
communications sent to Italy concerning the detention 
of  the  M/V  “Norstar”.  It  noted  that  Panama,  as  the 
flag State of the M/V “Norstar” contested the legality 
of  the  detention  under  the  Convention.  It  also  noted 
that, except for one response issued by Italy, all other 
communications  from  Panama  remained  unanswered. 
The Tribunal then took the view that a communication 
sent to Italy and the absence of a response from Italy 
indicate that there is a disagreement between the parties 
on points of law and fact, and concluded that a dispute 
existed between the parties at the time of the filing of 
the application. Examining the question as to whether 
the dispute concerned the interpretation or application 
of the Convention, the Tribunal found that among the 
articles  of  the  Convention  invoked  by  Panama  in  its 
application, article 87, on the freedom of the high seas, 
and article 300, on good faith and abuse of rights are 
relevant to the case.
With  respect  to  Italy’s  objection  based  on  lack  of 
jurisdiction ratione personae, the Tribunal found that 
the dispute before it concerns the rights and obligations 
of Italy and that therefore Italy is the proper respondent 
to the claim made by Panama in these proceedings. As 
regards Italy’s objection, based on the failure by Panama 
to fulfil its obligations regarding an exchange of views 
under article 283 of the Convention, the Tribunal found 
that Panama was justified in assuming that continuing 
to attempt to exchange views could not have yielded a 
positive result and that it had thus fulfilled its obligation 
under article 283 of the Convention.
The  Tribunal  then  turned  to  Italy’s  objections 
to  the  admissibility  of  Panama’s  application.  Those 
objections, also rejected by the Tribunal, were based on 
the  nationality  of  claims,  the  non-exhaustion  of  local 
remedies, and on acquiescence, estoppel and extinctive 
prescription.  With  respect  to  the  objection  based  on 
the  nationality  of  claims,  the  Tribunal,  relying  on  its 
previous jurisprudence, found that the M/V “Norstar”, 
flying the flag of Panama, is to be considered a unit, so 
the vessel, its crew and cargo on board, its owner and 
every person involved or interested in its operations are 
to be treated as an single entity linked to the flag State, 
irrespective of their nationalities.
With respect to the objection of Italy based on the 
non-exhaustion  of  local  remedies,  the  Tribunal  noted 
that the right of Panama to enjoy freedom of navigation 
on the high seas is a right that belongs to Panama under 
article 87 of the Convention, and that a violation of that 
right would amount to a direct injury to that country. 
The  Tribunal  concluded  that  the  claim  for  damage  to 
the persons or entities with an interest in the ship and 
its cargo arises from the alleged injury to Panama and 
concluded,  accordingly,  that  the  claims  in  respect  of 
such damages are not subject to the rule of exhaustion 
of local remedies.
Regarding acquiescence, the Tribunal held that at 
no stage has the conduct of Panama given scope to infer 
that it has abandoned its claim or acquiesced in the lapse 
of its claim. As to estoppel, the Tribunal considered that 
the main elements of estoppel have not been fulfilled in 
this case, and, with respect to extinctive prescription, 
it found that Panama has not failed to pursue its claim 
since the time when it first made it, so as to render the 
application inadmissible.
Having  rejected  all  of  Italy’s  objections  to  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Tribunal  and  the  admissibility  of 
the  application,  the  Tribunal,  in  its  judgment,  found 
that  it  had  jurisdiction  to  adjudicate  the  dispute  and 
decided that Panama’s application was admissible. The 
judgment  of  the  Tribunal  completes  the  preliminary 
objections stage of proceedings in the M/V “Norstar” 
case. Proceedings on the merits have resumed, and an 
order  was  issued  by  the  President  of  the  Tribunal  on 
29 November 2016 to fix the time limits for the filing 
of the memorial of Panama and the counter-memorial 
of Italy.
Let me briefly recall another case that is currently 
on the Tribunal’s docket, namely, Dispute Concerning 
Delimitation of the Maritime Boundary between Ghana 
and  Côte  d’Ivoire  in  the  Atlantic  Ocean  (Ghana/Côte 
d’Ivoire). This case is pending before a Special Chamber 
of the Tribunal formed to deal with this dispute. Oral 
proceedings in this case will be held in February 2017.
16-42334
15/20
A/71/PV.55 
07/12/2016
Those  two  cases,  with  their  different  subject 
matter,  are  a  good  illustration  of  the  development 
that the Tribunal has seen over the years, specifically, 
that  its  case  law  has  not  only  increased  but  has  also 
diversified. In fact, the Tribunal has received a number 
of cases dealing with a wide range of matters under the 
Convention. The scope of those cases covers maritime 
delimitation, requests for the release of detained vessels, 
claims for damages arising out of the alleged unlawful 
arrest of vessels, issues concerning responsibilities and 
liabilities of States in respect of deep seabed mining as 
well as illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in  1996. 
the  Tribunal’s  establishment 
Much  progress  has  been  achieved  in  this  respect 
since 
In 
particular,  in  recent  years,  cases  have  been  brought 
before the Tribunal, enabling it to broaden and deepen 
its jurisprudence from the viewpoint of both substantial 
and  procedural  law.  Therefore,  the  Tribunal  has  been 
able  to  further  establish  itself  as  a  key  player  in  the 
dispute-settlement  system  under  the  Convention  and 
to consolidate its position as the central forum for the 
peaceful settlement of disputes in the field of the law 
of the sea.
the  Tribunal’s 
the  Assembly  on 
I  also  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  briefly 
update 
training 
activities,  in  particular,  the  internship  programme 
and the Nippon fellowship programme. The Tribunal’s 
internship programme is aimed at university students, 
and approximately 15 internships of a duration of three 
months are available each year. Since the establishment 
of the programme in 1997, 326 interns from 94 States 
have benefited from this opportunity. 
I  wish  to  highlight  that  the  Tribunal’s  internship 
programme  also  offers  scholarships  to  participants 
from  developing  countries  in  order  to  support  them 
financially  during  their  stay  in  Hamburg.  For  that 
purpose,  the  Tribunal  has  set  up  a  trust  fund.  In  the 
past,  grants  have  been  made  to  this  fund  by  the 
Korea  Maritime  Institute  and  the  China  Institute  of 
International Studies. In 2016, a further grant was made 
by KMI, and I wish to express our sincere appreciation 
for the Institute’s valued support.
The  Nippon  fellowship  programme  is  a  capacity-
building and training programme designed to provide 
junior to mid-level Government officials and researchers 
with  advanced  legal  training  in  international  dispute 
settlement in the law of the sea. In 2016, the participants 
came  from  Cameroon,  Cambodia,  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  Portugal  and  Thailand.  To 
sum  up,  since  the  establishment  of  the  programme  in 
2007, 65 fellows from 54 countries have participated in 
this programme. I should like to express my gratitude 
to  the  Nippon  Foundation  for  its  generous  funding  of 
the programme.
I should also like to take this opportunity to reiterate 
the concluding part of the statement that I made at the 
ceremony  marking  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
Tribunal: 
“Building on the experience of the last 20 years, 
the  Tribunal  stands  ready  to  meet  the  challenges 
of the future. We, the Judges of the Tribunal, are 
ready to serve the international community and the 
States parties to the Convention for the settlement 
of their disputes related to the implementation and 
application of the Convention”. 
Let me also express my appreciation to the Division 
for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea of the Office of 
Legal Affairs for its continued cooperation and support 
for  the  Tribunal.  I  wish  the  General  Assembly  every 
success  in  its  important  deliberations  at  the  seventy-
first session.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on agenda item 73 
and its sub-items (a) and (b).
Before proceeding further, I would like to remind 
members  that  action  on  draft  resolution  A/71/L.26  is 
postponed to a later date to allow time for the review 
of  its  programme  budget  implications  by  the  Fifth 
Committee. 
The  Assembly  will  take  action  on  the  draft 
resolution as soon as the report of the Fifth Committee 
on its programme budget implications is available.
through 
the  1995  Agreement  for 
The  Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  draft 
resolution  A/71/L.24,  entitled  “Sustainable  fisheries, 
including 
the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish 
Stocks, and related instruments”. 
the 
representative  of 
floor 
to 
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
Ms.  Ochalik  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
16/20 
16-42334
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.55
that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution  and 
in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  the  draft 
document, 
the  following  countries  have  become 
sponsors  of  A/71/L.24:  the  Bahamas,  Canada,  the 
Czech  Republic,  Greece,  Indonesia,  Jamaica,  Latvia, 
Luxembourg,  Maldives,  Monaco,  Nauru,  Poland, 
Portugal,  Spain,  Sweden,  Ukraine  and  the  United 
States of America.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 
take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
adopt draft resolution A/71/L.24?
Draft resolution A/71/L.24 was adopted (resolution 
71/123).
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  draft  resolution 
A/71/L.27, entitled “World Tuna Day”.
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
like 
Ms.  Ochalik  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce  that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
in  the  draft  document,  the  following  countries  have 
become  sponsors  of  A/71/L.27:  Argentina,  Bhutan, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Dominica, Ecuador, Greece, 
Guatemala,  Kazakhstan,  Madagascar,  Mauritius, 
Mexico,  Mongolia,  Portugal,  the  Russian  Federation, 
Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines, 
Tajikistan and Viet Nam.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 
take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
adopt draft resolution A/71/L.27?
Draft resolution A/71/L.27 was adopted (resolution 
71/124).
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  Before 
giving the floor to delegations that wish to explain their 
position on the resolutions just adopted, may I remind 
Assembly  members  that  explanations  of  position  are 
limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations 
from their seats.
Mr.  Medina  Mejías  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): We take this opportunity 
to  extend  our  sincere  thanks  to  the  representative  of 
the  Norwegian  delegation,  Mr.  Andreas  Motzfeldt 
Kravik,  for  having  facilitated  the  negotiation  process 
on  the  text  of  resolution  71/123,  entitled  “Sustainable 
fisheries, including through the 1995 Agreement for the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish 
Stocks, and related instruments”. 
We  also  thank  the  Director  of  the  Division  of 
Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  Ms.  Gabriele 
Goettsche-Wanli,  and  her  team,  and  United  Nations 
Legal  Counsel  Mr.  Miguel  de  Serpa  Soares  for 
supporting  the  delegations  through  the  Office  of 
Legal Affairs.
The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  reiterates 
its  commitment  to  sustainable  fishing,  as  evidenced 
by its implementation of the principles of the Code of 
Conduct for Responsible Fisheries, issued by the Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations, 
and chapter 17 of Agenda 21, approved by the United 
Nations Conference on Environment and Development 
in  1992.  My  country 
to  several 
international instruments that call for the preservation 
and management of fishing. 
is  also  party 
It  has  been  Venezuela’s  consistent  position  in 
various  international  forums  that  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) should not 
be considered the only legal framework that governs all 
activities carried out in the seas and oceans, as there are 
other applicable international instruments — including 
the Geneva Conventions — that together with UNCLOS 
make up the body of law known as the law of the sea. In 
that regard, it has been our consistent and long-standing 
position to object to the possibility of the Convention 
being  invoked  as  conventional  law  or  customary 
international  law  unless  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela  expressly  recognizes  it  as  such,  in  future, 
through its incorporation into its national legislation.
The Venezuelan delegation has stated on numerous 
occasions  that,  in  the  view  of  the  Venezuelan  State, 
UNCLOS does not, despite its universal nature, enjoy 
universal  participation.  To  date,  UNCLOS  has  only 
164  States  parties,  unlike  many  other  multilateral 
instruments,  such  as  the  Convention  on  Biological 
Diversity, which currently has 193 States parties.
Venezuela is not party to the the Agreement for the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982 relating to the Conservation and Management of 
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, 
16-42334
17/20
A/71/PV.55 
07/12/2016
nor  are  the  norms  of  those  international  instruments 
applicable to Venezuela under customary international 
law,  unless  it  has  been  explicitly  otherwise  indicated 
by  Venezuela.  They  may  be  recognized  in  future 
through  their  incorporation  into  domestic  legislation. 
The  reasons  that  have  prevented  our  ratification  of 
those instruments, UNCLOS in particular, continue to 
be pertinent today.
Although  our  country  is  not  party  to  the  1995 
Agreement  on  Sustainable  Fisheries,  the  fisheries 
and  agriculture  sectors  are  a  priority  in  our  national 
development plans. That is evident in our Programa de la 
Patria for 2013-2019. That national programme includes 
objectives  such  as  promoting  fisheries  development 
by  modernizing  our  fishing  fleets  and  our  maritime 
and  river  fisheries 
infrastructures.  That  national 
development  plan  is  complemented  by  a  broad  set  of 
regulations through which we have been able to set up 
programmes  focusing  on  the  conservation,  protection 
and management of marine biological resources and on 
promoting responsible and sustainable management.
We  have  focused  on  relevant  biological  and 
economic aspects, as well as on food security and the 
relevant social, cultural, environmental and commercial 
issues.  The  Venezuelan  law  on  fisheries  prohibits 
bottom trawling and establishes a sanctions regime for 
the  failure  to  respect  conservation  and  management 
measures  applicable  to  fisheries.  It  includes  oversight 
measures for those vessels flying the national flag that 
engage  in  fisheries  activities,  as  well  an  inspection 
and monitoring system for operations on the high seas, 
which  submits  the  relevant  information  to  the  body 
tasked  with  fisheries  management.  That  allows  us  to 
know  exactly  in  which  geographical  area  a  fisheries 
operation is being carried out and to ensure compliance 
with  the  regulations  on  the  management  of  resources 
established in the law.
It is also important to highlight that Venezuela is 
making  national  contributions  to  designing  a  legally 
binding  instrument  on  port  State  control  that  focuses 
on the prevention, deterrence and elimination of illegal, 
unreported  and  unregulated  fishing.  We  made  those 
contributions during technical consultations held in the 
framework of the Food and Agriculture Organization of 
the United Nations.
In the interest of consensus, my delegation did not 
stand in the way of the adoption of resolution 71/123, on 
sustainable  fisheries.  Nevertheless,  Venezuela  wishes 
to  make  explicit  its  reservations  with  regard  to  the 
content of the resolution, given the fact that it is not a 
State party to UNCLOS nor to the Agreement for the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory 
Fish Stocks.
Although the text of the resolution contains some 
positive  aspects,  we  would  caution  that  the  text  also 
contains elements that caused Venezuela in the past to 
express  reservations  to  the  outcome  document  of  the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
in resolution 66/288. Those reservations were in relation 
to issues regarding marine biodiversity. In addition, our 
country,  for  the  same  reasons,  expressed  reservations 
to target 14C of the Sustainable Development Goals in 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
We  believe  that  future  updates  to  the  terms  of 
UNCLOS should be considered, given that there are new 
situations for which the current approach is inadequate 
and, in some cases, counterproductive, which therefore 
prevents  the  universal  application  of  the  Convention. 
That  situation  has  been  affecting  the  development  of 
a regime that should be addressing the most important 
contemporary issues regarding the oceans and seas in a 
balanced, equitable and inclusive manner. The reasons 
that  prevented  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela 
from  becoming  party  to  such  instruments  in  the  past 
still persist today.
Mr. Erciyes (Turkey): Turkey joined the consensus 
on resolution 71/123, on sustainable fisheries, as Turkey 
is fully committed to the conservation, management and 
sustainable use of marine living resources and attaches 
great  importance  to  regional  cooperation  to  that  end. 
However, Turkey disassociates itself from the references 
made in the resolution to international instruments to 
which it is not party. Those references should therefore 
not be interpreted as a change in the legal position of 
Turkey with regards to those instruments.
Mr. Cuéllar Torres (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): 
The Colombian delegation expresses its sincere thanks 
to Mr. Andreas Kravik of Norway for his tireless work 
as the coordinator of resolution 71/123, on sustainable 
fisheries,  in  conducting  in-depth  and  transparent 
discussions  in  a  constructive  spirit  that  reflected 
the  diversity  of  all  the  States  that  participated  in 
the consultations.
18/20 
16-42334
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.55
Colombia  recognizes  the  valuable  contribution 
made  by  the  resolutions  on  sustainable  fisheries.  The 
constructive  spirit  that  guides  Colombia,  given  the 
need to ensure sustainable fishing, is based on its firm 
conviction  that  all  nations  have  a  commitment  to  the 
protection of the sea and its resource in the interest of 
ensuring a sustainable future, for the world depends on 
it.  Colombia  attaches  great  institutional  significance 
to  marine-coastal  matters  and  has  a  unifying  vision 
in  which  the  sea,  the  coast  and  its  resources  are 
fundamental elements of the country’s governance.
to 
the 
development  and  sustainable  management  of  fishery 
resources  in  the  interest  of  constructing  not  only  a 
sustainable country but also sustainable fisheries on a 
global  scale  and  ensuring  access  to  fishing  resources 
for  future  generations.  It  is  in  fulfilment  of  those 
commitments  that  Colombia  supported  the  resolution 
with  determination  and  joined  the  consensus  for 
its adoption.
its  commitment 
Colombia 
reaffirms 
However,  Colombia  wishes  respectfully  to  state 
that the resolution was formulated on the basis of the 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of 
December 10, 1982, and to remind the Assembly that 
Colombia has not ratified that legal instrument, and its 
provisions  should  therefore  not  apply  to,  and  cannot 
be enforced in, Colombia, with the exception of those 
provisions that Colombia has expressly accepted.
The Republic of Colombia wishes therefore to state 
that the resolution, along with Colombia’s participation 
in the process of its adoption, should not be considered 
or interpreted in a way that implies the express or tacit 
acceptance  by  the  Colombian  State  of  the  provisions 
contained in the United Nations Convention on the Law 
of the Sea. Colombia does not consider the Convention 
to  be  the  only  standard  framework  for  regulating 
activities  in  the  oceans.  My  delegation  would  like  to 
reiterate  that  Colombia  carries  out  activities  in  the 
marine  environment  in  strict  compliance  with  the 
international commitments that it has expressly adopted 
or accepted. For those reasons, Colombia expresses its 
reservation  regarding  any  mention  of  the  Convention 
within the resolution, as we are not considered parties 
to the Convention nor are we bound by its contents. I 
request that this explanation of our position be included 
in the record of this meeting.
Ms.  Gandini  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Argentina joined in the General Assembly’s consensus 
in favour of resolution 71/123, on sustainable fisheries. 
However, we wish to inform the Assembly once again 
that  none  of  the  recommendations  included  in  the 
resolution can be interpreted to mean that the provisions 
of  the  1995  Agreement  for  the  Implementation  of  the 
Provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December  1982  relating  to  the 
Conservation  and  Management  of  Straddling  Fish 
Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish  Stocks  and  related 
instruments  can  be  considered  to  be  binding  on 
States that have not clearly expressed their consent or 
commitment to that Agreement.
that 
reiterates 
The resolution that we have just adopted contains 
paragraphs  concerning  the  implementation  of  the 
the  Review  Conference  on 
recommendations  of 
the  Agreement.  Argentina 
those 
recommendations must be not considered enforceable, 
but rather as mere recommendations to States non-parties 
to the Agreement. At the same time, Argentina wishes 
to note that current international law does not authorize 
regional management organizations and arrangements 
on fisheries or their member States to take any measure 
with respect to vessels whose flag State is not a member 
of such an organization or arrangement or that have not 
explicitly consented to the application of such measures 
to vessels flying the flags of non-members. Nothing in 
the resolutions of the General Assembly, including the 
one that we have just adopted, can be interpreted to be 
contrary to that conclusion.
in 
that, 
Moreover,  I  recall  once  again 
the 
implementation of conservation measures, the conduct 
of  scientific  research  or  the  undertaking  of  any  other 
activity  recommended  in  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly,  particularly  resolution  61/105  and  other 
relevant resolutions, and the legal framework provided 
by the International Law of the Sea as reflected in the 
Convention,  including  in  paragraph  13  of  article  77, 
must be strictly respected. The implementation of the 
resolutions cannot, therefore, be used as a precondition 
or  justification  for  ignoring  or  violating  the  rights 
established  by  the  Convention.  Nothing  in  resolution 
61/105  or  other  related  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly  prejudices  the  sovereign  rights  of  coastal 
States  over  their  continental  shelf  or  the  exercise  of 
the  jurisdiction  of  coastal  States  with  respect  to  their 
continental shelf under international law.
Paragraph  176  of  the  resolution  adopted  today 
contains  a  pertinent  reminder  of  that  concept,  which 
has  already  been  reflected  in  resolution  64/72  and 
subsequent  resolutions.  In  that  same  vein,  paragraph 
177 recognizes the adoption by coastal States, including 
16-42334
19/20
A/71/PV.55 
07/12/2016
Argentina,  of  measures  to  recognize  the  impact  of 
bottom fishing on vulnerable marine ecosystems on the 
entirety of their continental shelves. It also recognizes 
their efforts to ensure compliance with those measures. 
I would like to request that Argentina’s explanation of 
its position be reflected in the record of this meeting.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May 
I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  wishes  to  conclude  its 
consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 73?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 5.05 p.m.
20/20 
16-42334
