United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
57th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 8 December 2016, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.57
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Bhattarai 
(Nepal), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 69 (continued)
Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian 
and disaster relief assistance of the United Nations, 
including special economic assistance
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/395)
Draft resolution (A/71/L.34)
Draft amendments (A/71/L.36 and A/71/L.37)
(a) Strengthening of the coordination of emergency 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/71/82, 
A/71/329, A/71/336 and A/71/353)
Draft resolutions (A/71/L.32 and A/71/L.33)
(b) Assistance to the Palestinian people
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/87)
Draft resolution (A/71/L.31)
(c) Special economic assistance to individual 
countries or regions
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/620)
(d) Strengthening of international cooperation and 
coordination of efforts to study, mitigate and 
minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl 
disaster
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/411)
Draft resolution (A/71/L.28)
Mr.  Uğurluoğlu  (Turkey):  At  the  outset,  let  me 
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports  on  the 
humanitarian activities of the United Nations system.
We  would  also  like  to  commend  the  efforts 
of 
the  United  Nations  humanitarian  agencies 
in 
their  life-saving  work,  as  well  as  the  Office  for  the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs,  whose  role 
in  ensuring  effective  coordination  in  the  delivery  of 
humanitarian assistance remains essential. As we mark 
the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  resolution  46/182,  the 
framework and the instruments that that resolution has 
set continue to be relevant in shaping the international 
humanitarian response system.
Last  week  in  Geneva,  Under-Secretary-General 
Stephen O’Brien stated that we face a time of immense 
global  suffering  and  fear,  and  that  80  per  cent  of  the 
humanitarian  needs  stem  from  man-made  conflicts, 
many  of  which  are  now  protracted.  Despite  all  our 
collective efforts, it is undeniable that the gap between 
humanitarian  needs  and 
resources  available 
to  address  them  continues  to  widen.  Beyond  the 
devastating  effects  of  man-made  disasters,  such  as 
the  crisis  ravaging  in  Syria,  particularly  in  Aleppo, 
we are also faced with other challenges. Public health 
emergencies, climate change and the effects of El Niño 
have  long-lasting  impacts.  The  number  of  forcibly 
the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-42551 (E)
*1642551*
A/71/PV.57 
08/12/2016
displaced  persons  continues  to  grow.  Millions  of 
children are at risk of starting their lives without shelter 
or education.
As an effect of globalization, today’s humanitarian 
challenges  easily  transcend  borders.  They  therefore 
demand better and collective solutions. Our humanity 
entails a responsibility that we should all shoulder so as 
to help those in need, whether they are on our doorstep 
or  in  faraway  lands.  At  the  opening  of  the  first-ever 
World  Humanitarian  Summit  in  Istanbul  in  May, 
President  Erdoğan  stated  that  we  should  never  forget 
our  responsibilities  vis-à-vis  the  people  who  have  set 
their  hopes  on  the  messages  and  commitments  that 
arose in Istanbul. Indeed, that is why Turkey strongly 
supported  the  organization  of  that  Summit  from  its 
very inception. It was needed in order to sow the seeds 
of transformative change in the humanitarian system.
In  Istanbul,  we  announced  our  support  for  the 
commitments contained in the five core responsibilities 
set out in the Agenda for Humanity and made national 
commitments to that end. We are pleased to note that 
the Summit was a success. It brought together all the 
stakeholders of the world humanitarian community, with 
a  record  9,000  participants.  Member  States  and  other 
participants shared valuable experiences and expressed 
their  commitments  to  the  future  of  the  humanitarian 
system.  However,  as  has  been  the  case  with  various 
United Nations-led achievements in the past few years, 
such as the Sustainable Development Goals or the New 
York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants (resolution 
71/1), we are cognizant of the fact that we need to move 
ahead  with  the  implementation.  The  aftermath  of  the 
Istanbul  Summit  is  crucially  important  for  the  future 
of  the  humanitarian  system.  We  need  to  build  on  the 
global momentum that the Summit has generated and 
assume our responsibilities for the follow-up in order to 
improve our collective response.
Bearing  that  in  mind,  we  should  continue  our 
efforts  to  ensure  strong  political  leadership  aimed 
at  addressing  the  root  causes  of  conflicts  and  crises; 
address  the  need  for  fair  burden-sharing,  because  it 
is  our  common  responsibility  to  help  people  in  need; 
always  recall  that  no  humanitarian  problem  is  local, 
as all crises can become global; exert great efforts to 
support  the  humanitarian-development  nexus  through 
human-centered  policies  and,  finally,  increase  our 
financial  resources  and  use  existing  ones  in  a  more 
efficient  manner.  While  doing  all  of  that,  we  should 
work in close partnership with all stakeholders.
As the world’s largest refugee-hosting country and 
the second-largest individual humanitarian donor in the 
world in 2015, Turkey’s humanitarian assistance efforts, 
be  it  in  Somalia,  Haiti,  Myanmar,  Iraq  or  Syria,  will 
continue in that spirit. Our common objective remains 
simple —  to  better  respond  to  humanitarian  crises  in 
order  to  save  lives  and  thereby,  save  humankind.  We 
are confident that the Istanbul Summit was a point of 
departure for us all in reaching that common objective.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  Every  year,  we  meet  to  reiterate  our 
humanitarian  and  ethical  commitments  to  extending 
humanitarian  assistance  to  all  those  in  need  without 
discrimination, 
in 
accordance with the humanitarian principles in which 
we all believe.
politicization 
or 
blackmail, 
We  emphasize  our  concern  that  some  States, 
organizations  and  other  actors  have  been  using 
humanitarian  action  to  serve  inhumane  political  and 
economic agendas and achieve other goals and interests 
in  order  to  defame  and  malign  the  Governments  of 
Member  States.  That  negatively  affects  humanitarian 
action itself, as well as the stability of States and the 
welfare of peoples.
In  my  statement,  I  should  like  to  clarify  the 
position  of  my  country,  Syria,  vis-à-vis  the  draft 
resolutions on humanitarian assistance in their various 
manifestations.  I  wish  to  reiterate  the  commitment  of 
my  Government  to  its  firm  and  principled  position 
in  favour  of  extending  humanitarian  assistance  to  all 
those who are disadvantaged without discrimination, in 
accordance with our constitutional duties.
We  also  emphasize  our  continued  cooperation 
with  the  United  Nations  and  its  agencies  in  order  to 
ensure  the  delivery  of  such  assistance  on  the  basis  of 
respect  for  the  United  Nations  guiding  principles  and 
to  extend  humanitarian  assistance  in  emergencies, 
as  specified  in  resolution  46/182.  At  the  forefront  of 
those  principles  are  respect  for  national  sovereignty 
and the role of the States concerned in overseeing the 
distribution  of  humanitarian  assistance  within  their 
territories  and  the  principles  of  impartiality,  integrity 
and non-politicization.
Regrettably,  the  actions  of  some  sponsors  of  the 
draft  resolutions  and  some  of  those  responsible  for 
the  coordination  of  humanitarian  assistance  —  the 
Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs 
being  at  the  forefront  of  the  latter  —  demonstrate  a 
2/19 
16-42551
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.57
preoccupation with politicizing humanitarian crises and 
seek disgracefully to cover up the cardinal reasons for 
those crises. We have to state that the optimal solution 
for  such  humanitarian  crises  lies  in  addressing  their 
root  causes  and  consequences  without  politicizing  or 
twisting facts. I wish to make the following observations 
on the draft resolutions:
First,  with  regard  to  combating  terrorism,  my 
delegation is of the view that the fact that draft resolution 
A/71/L.34  contains,  for  the  first  time,  a  reference  to 
terrorism  as  one  of  the  main  causes  of  humanitarian 
crises,  after  that  issue  having  been  ignored  for  years, 
constitutes an important step in the right direction. Some 
States have recently stated — albeit reservedly — that 
violence, poverty and disasters are not the only reasons 
leading to evacuation, displacement and humanitarian 
crises, and that another basic cause of such phenomena 
is terrorism.
Despite  the  importance  of  that  step,  it  is  too 
little,  too  late.  We  must  use  stronger  language  that 
unambiguously  and  decisively  condemns  tourist  acts, 
as  was  done  last  year  in  resolution  70/104,  entitled 
“Safety  and  security  of  humanitarian  personnel  and 
protection of United Nations personnel”. It seems that 
some tend to forget that terrorism is the main scourge 
of humanitarian crises, be it in my country of Syria or 
in Iraq, Libya and other States.
A  case  in  point  is  the  terrorist  madness  that  is 
killing innocent civilians throughout the world. We have 
warned about that problem for a long time. Terrorism 
is  the  cardinal  reason  for  the  suffering  of  the  Syrian 
people,  particularly  women  and  children.  Combating 
it  requires  cooperation  with  the  Syrian  Government, 
which is struggling to combat terrorism on behalf of the 
world. We have called for pressure to be brought to bear 
on  States  that  support  terrorist  armed  groups  to  stop 
arming, financing, training and sheltering such groups, 
in  line  with  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions 
on combating terrorism.
Not  only  have  our  recurrent  calls  fallen  on  deaf 
ears, but our very stance has been distorted and called 
into question. I insist that efforts to address the main 
cause of the humanitarian crisis in Syria should focus 
on  international  coordination  and  cooperation  with 
the  Government  of  Syria  and  its  efforts  to  combat 
terrorism  in  all  its  aspects  and  forms,  as  well  as  on 
the  implementation  of  the  pertinent  Security  Council 
resolutions and returning to the goals and principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations.
Secondly,  I  turn  to  the  grave  consequences  of 
unilateral  economic  coercive  measures.  The  United 
Nations  has  rejected  and  condemned  the  imposition 
of  unilateral  economic  coercive  measures,  given 
their  illegitimate  nature  and  disastrous  impact  on 
the  economies  of  States  and  the  welfare  of  peoples. 
However,  some  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution  still 
seek to avoid any reference to such measures.
impact  on 
their  disastrous 
Those measures continue to date, despite repeated 
international  calls  and  demands  to  terminate  them 
forthright,  given 
the 
Syrian economy and the living conditions of Syrians. 
They  have  caused  thousands  of  Syrians  to  flee  their 
homeland and prevented the implementation of health 
and humanitarian response plans in Syria, as described 
in the Humanitarian Response Plan Monitoring Report 
issued  in  September  by  the  United  Nations  Resident 
Representative Office, in cooperation with the International 
Society for Quality in Health Care.
The  report  emphasizes  that  the  unilateral  economic 
measures  imposed  by  the  United  States  and  the  European 
Union against Syria adversely affect all categories of Syrian 
citizens. It is paradoxical that the draft resolution contains 
a  reference  to  resolution  70/1,  on  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  but  no  reference  to  the  adverse 
effects  of  those  measures.  How  can  States  be  expected  to 
implement the Agenda while sanctions are being imposed 
on them?
We wish to reiterate our reservations on the inclusion in 
the draft resolution of a reference to the World Humanitarian 
Summit  and  its  conclusions,  because  the  host  country, 
Turkey, did not allow my delegation to participate. We are 
therefore not party to that conference or to its resolutions. 
We  wish  also  to  enter  our  reservations  with  regard  to  the 
reference  to  the  New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and 
Migrants (resolution 71/1). As a United Nations document, 
the draft resolution ought to address general situations in all 
States and not specific States. We had hoped to hear the voice 
of the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and 
international  law,  not  those  of  influential  financing  States. 
Meetings should not be exploited to politicize the guiding 
humanitarian principles of the United Nations, which are of 
great  significance  in  terms  of  humanitarian  action  among 
Member States.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  comment  on  the 
statement by the representative of Israel. The General 
16-42551
3/19
A/71/PV.57 
08/12/2016
Assembly  knows  that  Zionism  is  the  Israeli  ideology 
on  the  basis  of  which  it  established  itself  in  occupied 
Palestine. Zionism is a form of racial discrimination. It 
is equivalent to Da’esh, as Zionist ideology maintains 
the  desire  to  take  over  the  entire  area  of  Palestine  in 
order to establish a Jewish State, excluding all others, 
including  Muslims  and  Christians.  The  Islamic  State 
in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL)  claims  something  very 
similar. It claims that it wants to set up a State only for 
those who believe in Da’esh, and not for all Muslims. 
That  simple  comparison  reveals  that  the  cause  for 
the  disasters  and  crises  in  our  area  is  Israel,  which 
has  introduced  racial  and  religious  radicalism  and 
intolerance into our region and introduced the concept 
of occupying the lands of others.
For  60  or  70  years,  hundreds  of  resolutions  have 
been  adopted  by  the  Organization  condemning  Israel 
and its aggressive policies. It is not only today that we are 
discovering Israel’s aggressive policies; we discovered 
them a long time ago, and we are all too familiar with 
them.  There  is  therefore  no  need  to  respond  to  the 
illusions and falsifications that are put forward by the 
Israeli delegation to mislead the audience in this Hall.
I  would  like  to  remind  the  Assembly  that  Israel’s 
authorities  have  links  with  the  terrorists  of  Jabhat 
Al-Nusra  and  ISIL  in  the  occupied  Golan.  Israel 
protects  ISIL  and  Jabhat  al-Nusrah.  It  helped  them  to 
evict  the  United  Nations  Disengagement  Observer 
Force contingent stationed at the separation line on the 
occupied Golan. Just yesterday, Israel launched rockets 
into the heart of Damascus, into the area of Al-Miza. 
Nobody should therefore blame us when we respond to 
those brazen Israeli actions at the appropriate time.
Mr.  Zehnder  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 
Humanitarian needs continue to grow year after year. 
The  fundamental  rules  of  international  humanitarian 
law are being violated as never before. The number of 
people forcibly displaced, to escape violence or natural 
disaster,  has  reached  a  record  high.  Humanitarian 
workers  are  regularly  the  target  of  attacks,  and  their 
access  to  people  in  need  is  increasingly  denied. 
Against  that  backdrop,  the  international  community 
must  provide  a  strong  and  united  response.  The  draft 
resolutions that we are discussing today should be an 
expression of that response. I would like to emphasize 
three points.
First, 
international 
humanitarian  law  to  be  the  principal  universal  legal 
Switzerland 
considers 
framework  for  the  protection  of  all  victims  in  armed 
conflicts and the provision of humanitarian assistance. 
That legal framework must be respected by all parties to 
an armed conflict. In that regard, there are considerable 
challenges: access to those in need must be improved, 
the safety of those who risk their lives to care for the 
sick and wounded must be strengthened, and violations 
of  international  law  are  unacceptable  and  must  be 
effectively  prosecuted.  In  the  light  of  the  ongoing 
conflicts in Syria, Yemen, South Sudan and Iraq, it is 
our  duty  to  strengthen  protection  for  all  war  victims 
and  humanitarian  health  workers  in  accordance  with 
the Geneva Conventions and their Additional Protocols.
Secondly, the phenomenon of forced displacement 
caused  by  natural  disasters,  climate  change  or  armed 
conflict requires the close coordination of humanitarian 
and  development  activities,  as  well  as  of  those  in  the 
areas  of  peacebuilding  and  human  rights.  We  need 
an  approach  that  encompasses  prevention,  protection 
and resilience.
Thirdly,  the  commitments  made  at  the  World 
Humanitarian  Summit  in  May  provide  a  unique 
opportunity  to  transform  and  strengthen  the  global 
humanitarian  system 
term.  Those 
commitments,  particularly  within  the  framework  of 
the  grand  bargain  on  humanitarian  financing,  must 
materialize,  in  order  to  be  able  to  provide  a  more 
effective humanitarian response to the needs of an ever-
increasing number of victims.
long 
the 
in 
Given the enormous humanitarian challenges that 
we  currently  face,  the  draft  resolutions  that  we  are 
adopting  today  should  represent  a  strong  and  united 
response from the international community. However, 
although some progress was made in the negotiations 
on the drafts, we see that they in no way go far enough 
to  meet  the  requirements  of  the  global  humanitarian 
situation. We regret in particular that genuine, concrete 
progress  could  not  be  made  in  terms  of  international 
humanitarian law, owing to the inflexible positions of 
some delegations.
However, my delegation wishes to express its deep 
gratitude  to  the  representatives  who  facilitated  the 
various  draft  resolutions.  The  facilitators  have  been 
fully engaged in their efforts to arrive at decisions by 
consensus. That consensus, which is a testament to the 
unity of States in the face of humanitarian needs, has 
been consistently respected in the past. We regret that 
such  a  consensus  could  not  be  respected  within  the 
4/19 
16-42551
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.57
framework of the draft resolution entitled “Safety and 
security  of  humanitarian  personnel  and  protection  of 
United  Nations  personnel”  (A/71/L.34).  Concerning 
draft  resolution  A/71/L.32,  entitled  “Strengthening  of 
the coordination of emergency humanitarian assistance 
of the United Nations”, my delegation regrets that the 
consensus  reached  during  the  negotiations  was  not 
respected during the silence procedure.
Mrs.  Kanchaveli 
My delegation believes that draft resolutions must 
be negotiated in good faith and full transparency, and 
calls on Member States to engage constructively during 
negotiations  and  to  respect  the  consensus  once  it  has 
been reached. We, the Member States, owe that much 
to  the  victims  of  armed  conflicts  and  disasters,  who 
depend on humanitarian aid, as well as to the workers 
who provide that aid, often risking their lives to do so.
(Georgia):  Georgia  aligns 
itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  observer  of  the 
European Union (see A/71/PV.56), and I would like to 
make a few additional remarks in my national capacity.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  acknowledge  the 
work  of  the  delegation  of  Sweden  in  successfully 
negotiating the text of the humanitarian omnibus draft 
resolution, entitled “Strengthening of the coordination 
of  emergency  humanitarian  assistance  of  the  United 
Nations” (A/71/L.32), and in securing consensus on the 
document again this year. The draft resolution maintains 
its  focus  on  the  most  pressing  issues  concerning  the 
humanitarian  situation  around  the  globe,  and  covers 
the  issues  of  forced  displacement  and  the  protection 
of  civilians  and  medical  personnel  and  facilities, 
while  stressing  the  need  for  strengthening  respect  for 
international humanitarian law and human rights law, 
as well as for supporting enhanced humanitarian action 
in  the  context  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  in  accordance  with  the  commitment  to 
leave no one behind.
In today’s world, more than 60 million people have 
been forced to abandon their homes and flee in search 
of  safety  owing  to  conflicts  and  violence  or  man-
made  or  natural  disasters  around  the  world.  Today, 
they  represent  the  world’s  most  vulnerable  groups, 
which  are  at  high  risk  of  being  left  behind.  To  echo 
the  Secretary-General,  delivering  better  for  people 
in  need,  inter  alia,  encompasses  strengthening  the 
respect  for  humanitarian  international  law,  ensuring 
humanitarian  access  and  protecting  humanitarian  and 
health-care personnel.
Over 
that 
the  years, 
the  position  of  Georgia  on 
humanitarian  issues  has  been  coherent  and  cohesive 
in  its  substance  and  modalities.  Political  impasses  or 
paralysis  should  not  hinder  humanitarian  action.  In 
that regard, we stress the importance of humanitarian 
access,  which  is  also  a  human  rights  issue,  while 
recognizing 
the  humanitarian  principles  of 
humanity,  impartiality,  neutrality  and  independence 
play  a  central  role  in  establishing  and  maintaining 
access  to  the  victims,  and  should  be  respected  by 
all actors.
In the light of the current challenges to the securing 
and sustaining of humanitarian access by humanitarian 
personnel,  including  the  personnel  of  United  Nations 
humanitarian agencies, and bearing in mind the central 
role that access plays in contributing to humanitarian 
assistance  and  protection,  my  delegation  raised  the 
concern  regarding  the  lack  of  access  in  various  parts 
of the world during the negotiations on the text of the 
humanitarian  omnibus  draft  resolution  in  document 
A/71/L.32  and, 
together  with  other  delegations, 
was  advocating  for  the  strengthening  of  the  call  for 
better access.
For  years,  20  per  cent  of  Georgia’s  sovereign 
territories have remained inaccessible to international 
monitoring  missions,  including  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
(OHCHR) and other human rights mechanisms, owing 
to  the  current  illegal  military  occupation  of  those 
territories by foreign forces. The denial of access raises 
the  legitimate  questions  expressed  by  the  OHCHR 
regarding  the  blocking  of  access  to  international 
observers.  Furthermore,  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
victims of ethnic cleansing — refugees and internally 
displaced  persons  —  are  unable  to  return  to  their 
places  of  habitual  residence,  while  those  residing 
inside  the  occupied  regions  continue  to  be  deprived 
of fundamental rights and freedoms, including but not 
limited to the right to free movement and to education 
in one’s native language.
During  humanitarian  emergencies,  the  delivery 
of humanitarian assistance and health care to those in 
need  should  be  the  priority.  However,  addressing  the 
immediate,  short-term  needs,  such  as  providing  the 
displaced  populations  with  appropriate  shelter,  food 
and health care, may not be enough. The plight of those 
forcibly displaced people remains unresolved in many 
cases, as it is impossible to provide conditions for the 
exercise of their inalienable right to a safe and dignified 
16-42551
5/19
A/71/PV.57 
08/12/2016
return  to  their  homes.  The  voluntary  return  rate  —  a 
measure of how many internally displaced persons and 
refugees  can  safely  go  back  home  —  is  at  its  lowest 
in  over  three  decades.  We  must  support  the  right  to 
safe and voluntary return, if we wish to manage forced 
displacements with effectiveness and efficiency.
Against the backdrop of global humanitarian crises 
caused  by  violence  and  armed  conflict,  transnational 
terrorism and violent extremism, as well as by climate 
change and global health threats, Georgia believes that 
the  international  community  should  focus  on  more 
effectively  protecting  humankind  and  humanitarian 
principles.  The  international  community  ought  to 
do  more  to  assist  the  most  vulnerable  groups  of 
populations.  First  and  foremost,  that  includes  those 
affected  by  armed  conflict  and  those  in  post-conflict 
situations.  The  international  community  must  also 
reduce the vulnerability of people to natural disasters.
(Canada):  As  a  number  of 
humanitarian  draft  resolutions  have  been  submitted 
today  for  action,  Canada  would  like  to  speak  to  the 
humanitarian  situation  that  we  see  around  the  world 
and how it is reflected in the draft resolutions that are 
currently before Member States.
Ms.  Pritchard 
We live in a world in which increasingly complicated 
and protracted crises have become the norm. Given the 
scale  of  current  needs,  we  must  work  together  with 
all  partners  to  develop  innovative  programming  that 
addresses the underlying causes of conflict. Canada is 
changing  how  we  work  in  order  to  ensure  that  every 
dollar goes as far as possible to reach those in need. For 
example,  Canada  is  doing  more  to  provide  multi-year 
funding  in  order  to  allow  for  better  humanitarian 
planning  and  results.  That  includes  enabling  host 
countries and communities to deliver adequate services 
to large numbers of refugees and displaced people.
(spoke in French) Canada remains deeply concerned 
about the growing number of people subject to forced 
displacement, as well as about the discrimination and 
marginalization  that  characterize  the  experiences  of 
many refugees and migrants globally. Canada is grateful 
for the generosity of the numerous host countries and 
communities  around  the  world,  and  we  will  continue 
to  assume  our  responsibility  in  welcoming  our  most 
vulnerable neighbours when they most need it.
Canada remains resolved to respond to the world’s 
needs. That is why Prime Minister Trudeau promised 
to  increase  the  humanitarian  aid  doled  out  in  2016-
2017  by  at  least  10  per  cent,  as  compared  with  the 
total  of  $684  million  from  2015-2016.  That  will  help 
our partners in the United Nations, the Red Cross and 
non-governmental  organizations 
to  better  support 
those  affected  by  crises,  including  the  so-called 
forgotten crises.
(spoke in English)
And yet every year, we see more and more people 
affected  by  humanitarian  crises.  The  United  Nations 
has  recently  appealed  for  $22.2  billion  to  respond  to 
the needs of over 90 million people in 2017. Those are 
shocking  figures  that  demand  our  attention  and  real 
collaboration. We already know that women and girls are 
disproportionately affected and that social inequalities 
grow  worse  during  a  crisis.  As  a  result,  women  and 
girls face even greater risks of being sexually abused, 
trafficked or forced into marriage. They are more likely 
to be displaced. The burden of care that they carry for 
their  families  and  their  communities  increases,  and 
their access to essential sexual and reproductive health 
services  is  reduced.  When  humanitarian  assistance 
does not take their needs into account, the inequalities 
that  exist  are  reinforced.  Put  quite  simply,  that 
is unacceptable.
We  are  pleased 
We know that women’s knowledge and leadership 
can be critical to preventing and responding to crises. 
In  the  midst  of  a  crisis,  women  and  girls  are  not  just 
victims.  Rather,  they  are  resilient  people,  and  many 
of  them  have  survived  tremendous  losses.  They  are 
the  experts.  We  need  to  ask  them  and  ourselves  how 
we  can  support  their  participation,  leadership,  and 
decision-making in their communities.
in  particular 
to  have  made 
improvements  in  the  humanitarian  draft  resolutions 
before  us  today  so  that  they  better  reflect  today’s 
realities  and  our  changing  mindset.  However,  we  are 
concerned  at  how  difficult  it  has  been  to  address  the 
critical  issue  of  the  protection  of  civilians  in  times 
of  conflict.  Indiscriminate  attacks  on  humanitarian 
and  medical  personnel,  on  the  wounded  and  sick,  on 
hospitals  and  civilians,  including  children,  are  taking 
place on a regular and sometimes daily basis.
As  Member  States,  we  must  remind  ourselves 
of  our  obligations  under  international  human  rights 
law  and  international  humanitarian  law,  in  particular 
the  obligation  to  allow  and  facilitate  the  rapid  and 
unimpeded passage of humanitarian relief for civilians 
in  need.  The  focus  of  our  attention  should  be  on  the 
6/19 
16-42551
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.57
law 
is  absolutely  essential 
life-saving  needs  of  civilians  and  their  protection 
in  times  of  humanitarian  crises.  We  reiterate  that 
international 
compliance  with  obligations  under 
humanitarian 
that 
regard. Not only are those obligations matters of legal 
responsibility,  the  principles  that  they  represent  are 
the  very  essence  of  humanity.  Canada  will  therefore 
continue  to  promote  principled  humanitarian  action 
and support concerted efforts to address the challenges 
faced by humanitarians in complex environments.
in 
Before closing, I wish to say that we are concerned 
by calls for a vote on draft resolution A/71/L.34, on the 
safety  and  security  of  humanitarian  personnel,  which 
is  based  on  well-established  norms  of  international 
law. We believe that calls for a vote send all the wrong 
messages, especially given the scale of the humanitarian 
crises that we are facing.
In  closing,  Canada  would  like  to  commend  the 
remarkable  dedication  of  United  Nations  personnel, 
humanitarian  workers 
personnel, 
including  international,  national  and  local  staff,  in 
delivering life-saving assistance to those most in need 
in  increasingly  complex  and  volatile  environments  at 
great  personal  risk.  Their  work  brings  hope,  dignity 
and life to the world’s most vulnerable.
and  medical 
Mr.  Kazi  (Bangladesh):  Bangladesh  attaches 
great  importance  to  the  humanitarian  and  emergency 
relief  assistance  provided  through  the  United  Nations 
and remains supportive of international efforts to help 
build resilient societies and nations and to respond to 
humanitarian challenges. We stress that the constructive 
engagement  and  coordinating 
role  of  national 
Governments, especially their leaders, are instrumental 
in facilitating international humanitarian assistance.
Summit 
in  May, 
As  our  delegation  underlined  at 
the  World 
Humanitarian 
international 
humanitarian  assistance  must  be  premised  on  the 
basic  principles  of  humanity,  neutrality,  impartiality 
and  independence.  We  underscore  the  need  for  better 
coherence  and  coordination  among  Member  States, 
United Nations agencies and other relevant stakeholders 
with a view to promoting the spirit of working together 
for  humankind.  The  unwarranted  politicization  of 
humanitarian  issues  must  be  avoided  in  order  to 
make  sure  that  humanitarian  response  is  fast,  timely, 
more  effective  and  targeted  to  the  evolving  needs  on 
the ground.
In recent years, we have witnessed continued high 
demand  for  humanitarian  relief  and  assistance  across 
the  globe,  owing  mostly  to  the  increased  numbers 
of  natural  disasters,  armed  conflicts  and  crises  of 
a  protracted  nature.  Climate  change,  unplanned 
urbanization,  irregular  human  mobility,  epidemics, 
recurrent food crises, and water and energy insecurity 
continue to threaten the preservation of the development 
gains already achieved in many developing countries, 
especially the least developed countries. The resulting 
consequence  of  underdevelopment,  poverty  and 
inequality  increases  the  vulnerability  of  the  affected 
people and reduces their capacity to cope with various 
endogenous and exogenous shocks.
We believe that sustainable development is the most 
effective preventive prescription for many humanitarian 
crises, including those related to forced displacement. 
The  international  community  needs  to  consider  and 
undertake  development  activities  with  a  focus  on 
building resilience and eventually reducing dependency 
on  humanitarian  aid.  The  underlying  root  causes  that 
adversely  impact  the  effectiveness  of  humanitarian 
assistance  need  to  be  addressed  in  a  holistic  manner. 
There is a need for discretion in apportioning financial 
support  for  humanitarian  and  development  work 
without compromising their respective priorities.
Bangladesh  recognizes  the  importance  of  the 
transition  from  emergency  response  to  preparedness 
and  resilience-building.  Many  developing  countries, 
especially  the  less-developed  countries,  suffer  from 
systemic constraints in terms of the finance, technology 
and  development  capacities  needed  to  effectively 
withstand and overcome humanitarian challenges.
financing 
The international community should, in full respect 
for national conditions and actual needs on the ground, 
develop mechanisms to provide enhanced, sustainable, 
flexible  and  multi-year-based 
support 
and  related  expertise,  technologies  and  products.  In 
that  context,  we  reiterate  the  need  for  effective  and 
meaningful  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  the 
Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction  2015-
2030.  We  also  acknowledge  the  centrality  of  the  role 
of  women  as  first  responders  and  the  need  to  further 
strengthen  gender-responsive  policy  development 
concerning disaster-risk reduction and mitigation.
Bangladesh  remains  concerned  over  the  reported 
in  many  conflict 
denial  of  humanitarian  access 
situations,  including  in  a  neighbouring  context  in 
16-42551
7/19
A/71/PV.57 
08/12/2016
recent  times.  We  condemn  the  indiscriminate  armed 
attacks  against  humanitarian  personnel  and  convoys, 
medical  and  peacekeeping  personnel  and  the  civilian 
infrastructure  essential  for  humanitarian  operations. 
We  urge  all  parties  to  conflicts  to  refrain  from  such 
egregious  attacks,  blockades  and  impediments,  in 
conformity  with  international  humanitarian  law.  We 
also  emphasize  the  importance  of  evidence-based 
information to ensure probity and accountability in the 
event of any such reported violation.
As  a  climate-vulnerable  and  disaster-prone 
country,  Bangladesh  continues  to  make  substantive 
investments  in  disaster-risk  reduction,  prevention, 
mitigation  and  relief,  building  on  lessons  learned  as 
well  as  on  international  best  practices.  In  line  with 
our  commitment  to  share  our  home-grown  expertise 
and innovations with others in a comparable situation, 
we  have  made  efforts  to  stand  by  disaster-affected 
people in Nepal, Haiti, Sri Lanka and the Philippines 
in recent times.
In  Bangladesh,  our  Government  has  established 
a  National  Committee  on  International  Humanitarian 
Law  so  as  to  ensure  the  further  dissemination  and 
awareness-building  of  international  humanitarian  law 
among our people, with the support of the International 
Committee  of  the  Red  Cross.  At  the  international 
level, we remain committed to promoting advocacy for 
addressing  the  humanitarian  needs  of  those  displaced 
as  a  result  of  climate  change,  especially  in  cross-
border contexts.
We  look  forward  to  enhanced  coordination  and 
coherence  among  the  relevant  United  Nations  entities 
and  other  stakeholders  in  further  promoting  dialogue 
on that emerging issue. As hosts to a protracted refugee 
situation involving an oft-forgotten people, Bangladesh 
reiterates  the  need  to  explore  avenues  to  further 
strengthen the international burden- and responsibility-
sharing framework for the protection and assistance of 
refugees and other displaced population groups.
In  conclusion,  we  thank  all  of  the  facilitators  for 
their diligent work on the draft resolutions, which our 
delegation is pleased to support.
Mr. Sadykov (Kazakhstan): In my statement I shall 
focus on the draft resolution on Chernobyl (A/71/L.28). 
We  are  honoured  to  co-sponsor  that  draft  resolution 
regarding the continuing grave effects of the Chernobyl 
disaster,  which  will  be  adopted  today  by  consensus. 
We  believe  that  the  decision  to  designate  26  April  as 
International  Chernobyl  Disaster  Remembrance  Day 
will  raise  awareness  of  the  long-term  consequences 
of  the  Chernobyl  and  Fukushima  disasters  and  drive 
action to prevent such casualties in the future.
Approximately  30,000 
technical  and  nuclear 
experts and military servicemen from Kazakhstan were 
among the first to arrive in the accident zone in April 
1986 to help reduce the consequences of the Chernobyl 
explosion. 
In  solidarity,  Kazakhstan  participated 
actively in the reconstruction of the sarcophagus of the 
Chernobyl  nuclear-power  plant,  allocating  more  than 
€2 million to that cause.
from  nuclear-weapons 
We  fully  support  the  decision  to  be  taken  by 
the  United  Nations  today,  as  Kazakhstan  itself  has 
suffered 
testing.  Having 
directly  experienced  those  horrors,  my  country  is 
today  recognized  as  a  passionate  campaigner  for 
peace  and  nuclear  security  and  disarmament.  The 
area in Kazakhstan affected by intense nuclear testing 
comprises  more  than  300,000  square  kilometres,  and 
the consequences are tragic. The land has been rendered 
useless and unfit for human habitation, agriculture or 
economic activity. Nearly 1.5 million people have been 
impacted  by  nuclear  and  radiological  contamination, 
resulting  in  fatalities,  cancer  and  weakened  immune 
systems.  The  incidence  of  disease  has  increased  and 
the duration of recovery prolonged, with phenomenally 
high costs.
Kazakhstan  has  struggled  with  the  consequences 
of the nuclear tragedy for more than two decades and 
calls  on  the  international  community  to  intensify 
efforts  aimed  at  nuclear  security  and  disarmament, 
as well as at the non-proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction. We thank the United Nations system and 
several  countries  for  helping  to  fund  our  recovery 
efforts. Much has been done, but the effects of 40 years 
of testing will require many more years before that vast 
region is rehabilitated. International efforts will have to 
be stepped up to return it to normalcy.
Next  year,  we  will  introduce  a  draft  resolution 
entitled  “International  cooperation  and  coordination 
for 
the  human  and  ecological  rehabilitation  and 
economic development of the Semipalatinsk region of 
Kazakhstan”. It will be the ninth time that such a draft 
resolution has been submitted. In that regard, we also 
express our deep appreciation to the Member States that 
have previously supported that resolution. My delegation 
deems  that  support  to  be  recognition  of  the  historic 
8/19 
16-42551
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.57
contribution of Kazakhstan to nuclear disarmament and 
the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction. 
Indeed, in 1991, for the first time in world history, the 
huge  nuclear  test  site  in  the  Semipalatinsk  region  of 
Kazakhstan was shut down by decree of the President 
of our country, Mr. Nursultan Nazarbayev.
We  have  since  worked  closely  with  the  United 
States,  the  Russian  Federation  and  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  on  institutional  arrangements 
for  nuclear  safety  and  security  and  worked  with 
Member  States  to  implement  the  recommendations  of 
the four Nuclear Security Summits. Next year, we will 
host on our territory the International Atomic Energy 
Agency Low Enriched Uranium Bank as a measure to 
strengthen  the  non-proliferation  regime  and  thereby 
reduce nuclear risks.
The  General  Assembly  draft 
resolution  on 
Chernobyl  is  clear  evidence  of  the  recognition  by  the 
international  community  that  that  issue  remains  a 
matter of serious concern for the people of the planet. 
We stand with all countries around the world that have 
suffered  from  nuclear  tests  and  disasters.  It  confirms 
our deep conviction that such problems can be solved 
only by the joint efforts of the international community.
The Acting President: In accordance with General 
Assembly  resolution  49/2,  of  19  October  1994,  I  now 
call on the observer of the International Federation of 
Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
Mr.  Senghore  (International  Federation  of  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  On  behalf  of  the 
International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent 
Societies (IFRC), allow me to express my appreciation 
for the opportunity to address this important debate.
This  fall,  Member  States  adopted  the  New  York 
Declaration  for  Refugees  and  Migrants  (resolution 
71/1) and the New Urban Agenda in Quito, adding to 
the  several  multilateral  agreements  adopted  during 
the  previous  year,  many  of  which  have  important 
implications  for  humanitarian  action.  Each  of  those 
agreements has, in one way or another, recognized the 
importance of bridging humanitarian and development 
action. That bridge in programmes, in finance and in 
approaches  is  critical  if  we  are  to  effectively  respond 
to the ever-growing humanitarian needs. Allow me to 
make three points in that regard.
The principle of leaving no one behind, as enshrined 
in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
cannot  be  realized  without  addressing  the  needs  of 
those  caught  in  humanitarian  crises.  That  includes 
the many people affected by the biggest displacement 
crisis of our time. With the adoption of the New York 
Declaration  for  Refugees  and  Migrants  in  September, 
the international community recognized the need to act 
urgently to stem the loss of lives, the suffering and the 
needless indignities inflicted on those valuable people.
The  current  process  leading  towards  a  Global 
Compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration  is 
a  welcome  step.  We  are  particularly  interested  in  the 
potential for the Compact to support a more effective 
approach  to  the  humanitarian  and  protection  needs 
of  the  most  vulnerable  migrants.  We  hope  to  see  the 
Compact lay out concrete goals and activities to reduce 
the number of deaths and the privation and suffering of 
migrants, and ensure that migrants have safe access to 
essential services and accurate information that allows 
them  to  make  safer  choices  along  their  journey.  We 
also  hope  the  process  will  strongly  reaffirm  the  need 
to  counter  xenophobia,  discrimination  and  violence 
against migrants.
The  IFRC  is  working  together  with  its  national 
societies  with  and  for  vulnerable  migrants  to  help 
them meet their immediate needs and integrate into the 
societies that host them. We will be pleased to contribute 
our expertise in the Global Compact consultations that 
will be taking place next year. We commend the efforts 
to design an inclusive, transparent and action-oriented 
consultation process that includes various stakeholders 
at  a  global,  regional  and  subregional  level.  We  would 
also  recommend  holding  national  consultations,  as 
that would help to ensure a more context-specific and 
inclusive process.
the 
The  important  topic  of  localizing  aid  has  been 
extensively  promoted  on 
international  policy 
agenda  in  2016,  including  through  the  grand  bargain 
on  humanitarian  financing,  which  features  specific 
commitments to support local and national responders. 
We think that greater support for local actors can make 
an  important  difference  in  the  timeliness,  efficiency 
and appropriateness of humanitarian aid.
In the short term, we are hopeful that the various 
commitments of the grand bargain, including the goal 
of  channelling  at  least  25  per  cent  of  humanitarian 
funds as directly as possible to local and national actors 
by  2020,  will  begin  moving  us  in  the  right  direction. 
In the long term, humanitarian and development actors 
16-42551
9/19
A/71/PV.57 
08/12/2016
need  to  invest  in  the  pre-emption  of  future  crises, 
strengthening the functional and operational capacities 
of local Governments and civil-society actors in order 
to ensure that local actors are as ready and capable as 
possible to step up to the needs in their communities. 
It is also important to avoid overwhelming local actors 
with a sudden influx of relief funds.
With 
regard 
to 
the 
funding, 
international 
community  has  fallen  short  in  identifying  emergency 
funding mechanisms that are adaptable to local action. 
For its part, the IFRC Disaster Relief Emergency Fund 
can quickly disburse funds, both for emergency relief 
operations and for making preparations in the event of an 
imminent disaster, to a national society within 24 hours 
and  with  minimal  bureaucracy,  while  still  ensuring 
proper  accountability.  However,  we  have  recognized 
that that is not enough, and we are currently working 
with  our  partners  in  the  International  Committee  of 
the  Red  Cross  and  a  number  of  donors  to  develop  a 
capacity-building fund with an eye towards developing 
longer-term sustainability and flexibility.
forecast-based  preparedness 
The  IFRC  welcomes  the  recognition  given  to 
Red  Cross  efforts  in  this  year’s  draft  resolution  on 
international  cooperation  on  humanitarian  assistance 
in  the  field  of  natural  disasters  (A/71/L.33).  We 
acknowledge 
the  usefulness  of  developing  and 
enhancing 
systems, 
making  resources  available  for  action  in  anticipation 
of natural disasters and making ex ante investments in 
order to mitigate disaster risks and build resilience. For 
our  part,  we  are  in  the  process  of  piloting  a  forecast-
based financing mechanism that enables the allocation 
of funds for the timely implementation of early action 
and  preparedness  for  responses  based  on  forecast 
information before disasters happen. Using a forecast-
based  financing  mechanism,  investment  is  allocated 
based not only on a certain forecast, but also on a clear 
understanding  of  potential  impacts  and  a  cost-benefit 
analysis  of  actions.  It  will  facilitate  decision-making 
processes in scenarios of uncertainty.
The IFRC and its 190 national societies have been 
working to assist vulnerable people for approximately 
150  years.  We  will  continue  to  mobilize  the  power 
of  humankind  to  provide  life-saving  assistance  to 
vulnerable  people.  We  will  also  continue  to  work 
with Governments in our auxiliary function to deliver 
services at the last mile.
The  Acting  President: 
In  accordance  with 
resolution  45/6,  I  now  call  on  the  observer  of  the 
International Committee of the Red Cross.
Ms.  Duran  (International  Committee  of 
the 
Red  Cross):  The  year  2016  has  been  a  big  year  for 
United  Nations  policy-making.  The  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  came  into  force.  The 
New  York  Declaration  on  Migrants  and  Refugees 
(resolution 71/1) and the Quito New Urban Agenda were 
adopted  by  Member  States.  Each  of  those  decisions 
involves  important  humanitarian  commitments.  The 
International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  (ICRC) 
welcomes them and is ready to advise on humanitarian 
aspects  of  the  Compacts  on  migrants  and  refugees, 
which States will start developing in 2017.
localization, 
The World Humanitarian Summit in May brought 
focus to several important areas of humanitarian policy, 
such  as  protracted  conflicts,  internally  displaced 
persons, 
relief-to-development 
nexus,  cash  transfers,  education  and  the  inclusion 
of  disabled  people.  This  year  also  marks  the  twenty-
fifth anniversary of the adoption of resolution 46/182,  
on  strengthening  the  coordination  of  humanitarian 
emergency assistance.
the 
Our  remarks  will  concentrate  on  respect  for 
international  humanitarian  law,  the  link  between  the 
2030 Agenda and humanitarian action, the significance 
today of resolution 46/182, and two particular groups of 
vulnerable people, namely, internally displaced persons 
and missing persons.
The need to generate greater respect for international 
humanitarian law has rightly been an important priority 
in United Nations policy-making during 2016. Countless 
attacks on health-care facilities and health-care workers 
led to the adoption of Security Council resolution 2286 
(2016),  which  included  a  strong  reaffirmation  of  the 
importance and relevance of the laws protecting health-
care  delivery  in  situations  of  armed  conflict.  More 
broadly,  violations  of  international  humanitarian  law 
by  State  and  non-State  armed  groups  have  continued 
across many armed conflicts. Humanitarian access has 
remained deeply problematic in several contexts. States’ 
efforts  to  respect  and  ensure  respect  for  international 
humanitarian law need to be significantly improved.
The agreement on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development 
is  a  major  achievement  by  States, 
but  the  Agenda  must  not  obscure  the  distinct  role 
of  humanitarian  action.  It  is  not  the  main  purpose 
10/19 
16-42551
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.57
to  meet 
of  humanitarian  action 
the  sustainable 
development  goals  (SDGs),  and  the  ICRC  does  not 
pursue  a  particular  ideology  of  political,  economic 
or  social  progress.  Our  action  focuses  on  need  alone. 
However, principled humanitarian action may make a 
special contribution to meeting the basic human needs 
identified in the SDGs, especially for people left behind 
in  armed  conflicts.  Many  of  the  basic  human  needs 
prioritized in the SDGs — such safety, nutrition, health, 
water, education, livelihoods and legal protection — are 
also prioritized in international humanitarian law and 
humanitarian action.
In  protracted  conflicts,  humanitarian  action  can 
hold together development infrastructure and services 
at a basic level and even function as a safety net. Smart 
collaboration  between  humanitarian  actors,  public 
authorities,  development  institutions  and  businesses 
can  enable  some  continuity  of  the  SDGs  during  and 
after  armed  conflict,  but  humanitarian  action  is  not 
development  or  peacebuilding,  which  tend  to  have 
political goals.
remains 
important 
Resolution  46/182 
today. 
It  recognizes  State  sovereignty  and  prioritizes  the 
role  and  responsibility  of  States  in  the  facilitation  of 
neutral  and  impartial  humanitarian  action.  It  also 
recognizes  the  importance  of  respecting  international 
humanitarian  law  and  the  vital  additional  role  of 
principled humanitarian organizations in strengthening 
humanitarian response.
Our  operational  experience 
is  clear.  This 
combination of a responsible and actively engaged State 
allowing and facilitating principled humanitarian action 
works  best  to  protect  and  assist  the  victims  of  armed 
conflict.  When  States  embrace  their  humanitarian 
responsibilities, the ICRC is better able to reach people 
and  to  support  or  provide  the  services  they  need.  An 
effective  Government  is  often  the  difference  between 
humanitarian success and humanitarian failure.
Finally,  our  operations  suggest  that  two  groups 
of  people  deserve  significant  attention  in  global 
humanitarian policy today: urban internally displaced 
persons (IDPs) and missing people and their families. 
Urban IDPs form a growing category of people whose 
conditions  require  a  more  coordinated  response.  The 
majority of the world’s IDPs now live in urban areas, 
usually  alongside  urban  poor.  IDPs  and  their  host 
communities  share  many  similar  needs.  States  should 
focus more effort on integrating urban IDPs and their 
host  communities  into  improved  basic  services  and 
livelihood opportunities. We welcome the commitment 
of the World Bank and the United Nations Development 
Programme  to  partner  with  Governments,  municipal 
authorities and humanitarian organizations to support 
State capacity to meet the needs of IDPs.
Missing  people  and  their  families  also  require 
better  coordination  of  humanitarian  services.  Here, 
ICRC  is  facing  increasing  needs  as  missing  migrants 
are  added  to  people  missing  in  armed  conflicts.  The 
emotional pain and socioeconomic impact felt by their 
families  is  deep  and  lasting.  People  need  a  concerted 
effort  on  the  part  of  States  to  enable  and  link  up  the 
search for missing people. ICRC stands ready to support 
these greater efforts.
The year 2017 will be taken up with the important 
work of rolling out new global policies agreed this year 
and developing the compacts on migrants and refugees. 
The  humanitarian  role  and  responsibilities  of  States 
must remain central and in line with their obligations 
under  international  and  domestic  law.  The  need  to 
clarify  the  relationship  between  humanitarian  action 
and Agenda 2030 will be key. But the needs of people, 
like IDPs and the missing, must remain at the heart of 
new humanitarian policies.
The  Acting  President:  We  shall  now  proceed 
to  consider  draft  resolutions  A/71/L.28,  A/71/L.31, 
A/71/L.32,  A/71/L.33  and  A/71/L.34  and  draft 
amendments A/71/L.36 and A/71/L.37.
Before proceeding further, and in view of the desire 
of members to dispose of this item expeditiously, I should 
like to consult the Assembly with a view to proceeding 
immediately  to  consider  draft  resolutions  A/71/L.32, 
A/71/L.33  and  A/71/L.34  and  draft  amendments 
A/71/L.36  and  A/71/L.37.  In  this  connection,  since 
the  draft  resolutions  and  draft  amendments  were  not 
circulated  until  this  morning,  it  would  be  necessary 
to waive the relevant provision of rule 78 of the rules 
of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  which  reads 
as follows:
“As  a  general  rule,  no  proposal  shall  be 
discussed or put to the vote at any meeting of the 
General  Assembly  unless  copies  of  it  have  been 
circulated to all delegations not later than the day 
preceding the meeting.”
16-42551
11/19
A/71/PV.57 
08/12/2016
Unless I hear any objection, I shall take it that the 
Assembly agrees with the earlier proposal that I made 
to waive a provision of the rules of procedure.
It was so decided.
The Acting President: Before giving the floor for 
explanations of vote or position before the voting, may I 
remind delegations that explanations of vote are limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr. Galbavý (Slovakia): I would like to speak in 
explanation of vote before the voting on draft resolution 
A/71/L.34, entitled “Safety and security of humanitarian 
personnel and protection of United Nations personnel”. 
I have the honour to speak on behalf of the European 
Union and its member States.
The United States facilitator of this humanitarian 
draft  resolution  has  made  every  possible  effort  to 
ensure a transparent and inclusive process in which all 
views were taken into account. During the month-long 
negotiation process, all delegations had ample chance to 
be involved. Unfortunately, after we reached consensus 
on the draft text, as presented today, the delegation of 
the Sudan proposed an amendment to the twenty-sixth 
preambular  paragraph  and  the  deletion  of  operative 
paragraph 7. After a new informal reading, all the other 
delegations preferred to stick to the consensus reached 
during the negotiations.
The references to the International Criminal Court 
in  the  preambular  and  operative  parts  have  existed 
since 1999, when the first resolution on the safety and 
security of humanitarian personnel and the protection 
of United Nations personnel was adopted.
We  ask  all  Member  States  to  vote  against  the 
proposed  changes  in  agreed  language  from  previous 
years for the following reasons. First, the Rome Statute 
of the International Criminal Court is the only standing 
legal  instrument  in  which  attacks  directed  against 
personnel  involved  in  humanitarian  assistance  or 
peacekeeping  missions  are  explicitly  recognized  as  a 
war crime. That simple factual reference is as relevant 
now  as  it  was  in  1999.  Referring  to  an  instrument  is 
stronger than referring in general to international law, 
as suggested by the delegation of the Sudan.
Secondly, it is important that the present wording 
recognize  the  role  that  the  International  Criminal 
Court can play in the enforcement of that prohibition. 
We  consider  the  International  Criminal  Court  to  be 
an  indispensable  building  block  in  the  prevention  of 
impunity,  including  in  the  case  of  the  war  crime  of 
directing  attacks  against  humanitarian  assistance 
personnel  and  peacekeepers.  It  is  for  that  reason  that 
the  28  States  members  of  the  European  Union  will 
vote  against  the  amendments,  and  we  urge  all  other 
States and, in particular, the States parties to the Rome 
Statute of the International Criminal Court to also vote 
against them.
Mr. Mohamed (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): First, I 
would like to reiterate that we support draft resolution 
A/71/L.34, on the safety and security of humanitarian 
personnel and protection of United Nations personnel. 
We have voted in favour of the draft resolutions on that 
subject since 1999, and our delegation will continue to 
do  so.  As  the  draft  resolution  relates  to  humanitarian 
assistance,  it  is  particularly  important  for  the  text  to 
be  acceptable  to  the  international  community.  In  that 
regard, I would like to note that it is the responsibility 
of  the  sponsors  not  to  introduce  controversial  issues 
that  would 
to  vote  against 
certain paragraphs.
(spoke in English)
require  delegations 
the  principles  of 
 Humanitarian assistance is premised on principles, 
including 
independence  and 
impartiality. We, along with several other delegations, 
consider  that  they  are  both  absent  from  the  Rome 
Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  Since 
23  November,  in  all  transparency  and  having  broken 
the silence, we have proposed different language in an 
attempt to overcome this difference with our partners 
and  colleagues  in  the  European  Union.  During  those 
15 days, we took every available opportunity to try to 
arrive at agreed language. Unfortunately, the European 
Union  insisted  on  retaining  the  unamended  wording 
and overruled the silence procedure the moment we did 
the  opposite,  thereby  giving  us  no  opportunity  to  put 
forward our proposals.
 Our first amendment (A/71/L.36) is to the twenty-
sixth  preambular  paragraph  and  simply  proposes 
the deletion of the words “in the Rome Statute of the 
International Criminal Court, and noting the role that 
the Court can play in appropriate cases in bringing” and 
their replacement by a general reference that reads “in 
international law, and expressing resolve to bring”. The 
remainder of the sentence can be left as is. That is our 
first amendment. We are ready to consider any language 
that  could  assist  us  in  our  endeavour.  In  the  past  few 
12/19 
16-42551
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.57
days,  we  have  submitted  other  improved  language 
that  is  more  acceptable  in  an  effort  to  overcome  the 
impasse  on  the  twenty-sixth  preambular  paragraph. 
Unfortunately, our repeated calls have gone unheeded.
In the second amendment (A/71/L.37), we propose 
the  deletion  of  paragraph  7,  which  reads  “Also  calls 
upon  all  States  to  consider  becoming  parties  to  the 
Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court”. 
We consider that this wording offers an opportunity to 
advance  in  a  controversial  matter  that  conflicts  with 
the  purpose  of  the  draft  resolution  on  humanitarian 
assistance,  because  the  Court  has  already  proved, 
during  its  short,  10-year  lifespan,  that  it  does  not 
respect the principles of independence and impartiality. 
We have brought to the attention of all States Members 
of the United Nations the reason we are calling for the 
deletion of any reference to the International Criminal 
Court in this draft resolution.
It  should  be  noted  that  the  Sudan  is  a  party  to 
the  four  Geneva  Conventions  and  the  two  Additional 
Protocols. Paragraph 5 of article 6 of Protocol II, which 
relates  to  internal  conflicts,  expressly  refers  to  the 
obligation of the States parties to the Protocol to resort 
to  amnesty  as  a  measure  that  will  bring  peace  to  a 
conflict situation in any given country. Unfortunately, 
the Statute of the International Criminal Court negates 
that  principle  of  international  law.  When  asked  about 
that  irregularity  and  contradiction,  the  first  President 
of the Court described it as “constructive ambiguity”. 
Constructive ambiguity can be a basis for any political 
situation, but it cannot be the basis for a rule or a statute 
governing the International Criminal Court.
In the note we circulated to all delegations, we said 
that the references to the Court lacked relevance to the 
subject matter of the draft resolution and that they were 
therefore  invalid.  The  only  purpose  of  the  references 
is  to  try  to  promote  a  controversial  issue,  as  we  can 
clearly  see  from  paragraph  7.  Serious  concerns  about 
validity,  usefulness,  integrity,  efficiency,  corruption, 
politicization  and  selectivity  are  being  increasingly 
voiced, even among the membership of the Court.
The  General  Assembly,  the  highest  organ  of  the 
Organization,  is  entrusted  with  the  fulfilment  of  the 
objectives  and  purposes  of  the  United  Nations,  chief 
among  which  are  respect  for  and  adherence  to  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international  law. 
It  is  noteworthy  that  the  United  States  of  America 
and  India  pointedly  affirmed  the  following  in  their 
joint statement on the eve of the adoption of the Rome 
Statute in 1998:
“We  are  concerned  about  the  international 
criminal  treaty  with  respect  to  the  inadequacy  of 
checks  and  balances,  the  impact  of  the  treaty  on 
national sovereignty and the potential for conflict 
with the United Nations Charter”.
The  Sudan,  too,  is  concerned  about  any  potential 
conflict  with  the  United  Nations  Charter,  and,  since 
the  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  is  at 
odds with the Charter, our amendments eliminate the 
references to the Court.
Reference to the Court should not be forced into a 
draft resolution on the protection of humanitarian and 
United Nations personnel. It seems appropriate to cite 
the  Canadian/Irish  human  rights  professor  mentioned 
in  our  circular.  Mr.  William  Schabas  stated  that  it  is 
a fact that many States seek to influence the direction 
of  international  justice,  and  they  resist  efforts  to 
strengthen  the  independence  and  impartiality  of  the 
judiciary because it threatens their ability to fulfil such 
an agenda. The fact is that they do not want to do so 
because they would lose control.
In sum, because of these arguments, I urge Member 
States  to  vote  in  favour  of  our  amendments  to  draft 
resolution A/71/L.34, both as regards the wording of the 
twenty-sixth preambular paragraph and the deletion of 
operative paragraph 7. I seek guidance as to whether we 
will vote separately on each of those two paragraphs.
The  Acting  President:  Yes,  we  will  conduct  a 
separate vote on each of the two amendments (A/71/L. 
36 and A/71/L.37).
Mr.  Nardi  (Liechtenstein):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak  on  behalf  of  Australia,  Canada,  Iceland,  New 
Zealand,  Norway,  Switzerland  and  my  own  country, 
Liechtenstein.
I would like to remind delegations that the wording 
in question is the exact wording agreed on by consensus 
in  previous  years.  Concerning  the  first  proposed 
amendment  (A/71/L.36),  it  is  important  to  stress  that 
the twenty-sixth preambular paragraph merely reflects 
the fact that the crimes in question are referred to in the 
Rome  Statute.  We  find  it  therefore  deeply  disturbing 
that the established consensus is now being challenged. 
This  is  even  more  distressing  since  we  have  been 
witnessing  an  alarming  erosion  of  the  respect  for 
international  humanitarian  law  in  recent  years,  with 
16-42551
13/19
A/71/PV.57 
08/12/2016
some of the most disturbing expressions being attacks 
against humanitarian and medical personnel in conflict 
situations,  in  violation  of  international  humanitarian 
law. Therefore, the relevance of the agreed text today is 
even greater than in past years, and we strongly insist 
on the retention of the agreed language.
paragraphs. We repeat that position once again today. 
Our  country’s  decision  to  withdraw  from  the  Rome 
Statute  prevents  us  from  aligning  ourselves  with  the 
twenty-sixth preambular paragraph and paragraph 7 of 
the draft resolution. In that connection, we support the 
amendments proposed by the Sudan.
On  the  second  proposed  amendment  (A/71/L.37), 
we want to emphasize that paragraph 7 does not touch 
upon  each  State’s  own  decision  to  choose  whether  to 
join  the  Rome  Statute  system,  and  that  therefore  the 
text should be kept. We hope that all delegations will 
join us in opposing changes to the consensus language 
from previous years.
Mr. Pronin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): 
The  Russian  Federation  consistently  advocates  the 
prosecution of individuals guilty of having perpetrated 
grave  international  crimes.  Our  country  was  at  the 
origin of the establishment of the Nuremberg and Tokyo 
war  crimes  tribunals.  We  took  part  in  crafting  their 
Charters.  For  the  same  fundamental  reasons,  Russia 
voted in favour of adopting the Rome Statute, and we 
signed it on 13 September 2000.
The International Criminal Court (ICC), as the first 
permanent body of international criminal justice, was 
closely  linked  to  the  expectations  of  the  international 
community  to  combat  impunity,  to  settle  existing 
conflicts  and  to  prevent  new  hotbeds  of  tension  from 
arising. To our regret, the Court has failed to meet our 
expectations. It has not become a genuinely independent 
and authoritative body of international justice.
This  is  a  matter  of  principle.  In  various  forums, 
including  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council, we have observed the ineffective and one-sided 
work of the Court with respect to the cases on its docket. 
That  is  borne  out  by  the  fact  that,  in  the  14  years  of 
its  work,  the  ICC  has  rendered  only  four  judgments; 
yet, it has expended more than $1 billion. We therefore 
understand  the  initiative  taken  by  the  African  Union 
in  deciding  to  formulate  measures  for  a  coordinated 
withdrawal of African States from the Rome Statute.
We  view  in  a  similar  light  the  position  of  the 
Sudanese  delegation  in  proposing  amendments  to  the 
twenty-sixth  preambular  paragraph  (A/71/L.36)  and 
paragraph 7 (A/71/L.37) of draft resolution A/71/L.34, 
which  refer  to  the  role  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  and  the  Rome  Statute.  From  the  very  outset 
of  the  negotiations  on  draft  resolution  A/71/L.34, 
our  delegation  clearly  set  forth  its  position  on  both 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker  in  explanation  of  vote  or  position  before 
the voting.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/71/L.28, entitled “Persistent legacy of the 
Chernobyl disaster”.
I  give 
the Secretariat.
the 
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of the draft resolution, and 
in addition to those delegations listed in the document, 
the following countries have become sponsors of draft 
resolution  A/71/L.28:  Andorra,  Argentina,  Australia, 
Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Egypt,  Estonia,  Georgia, 
Iceland,  India,  Italy,  Kyrgyzstan,  Latvia,  Monaco, 
Norway,  Poland,  Romania,  San  Marino,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Sweden, the Syrian Arab Republic, the former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia  and  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/71/L.28 without a vote?
Draft resolution A/71/L.28 was adopted (resolution 
71/125).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/71/L.31, entitled 
“Assistance to the Palestinian people”.
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of the draft resolution, and in 
addition  to  those  delegations  listed  on  the  document, 
the following countries have become sponsors of draft 
resolution  A/71/L.31:  Albania,  Andorra,  Australia, 
Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Denmark, Georgia, 
Germany,  Guatemala,  Hungary, 
Japan, 
Liechtenstein,  Luxembourg,  Monaco,  Montenegro, 
Iceland, 
14/19 
16-42551
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.57
the  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway,  Portugal, 
the  Republic  of  Korea,  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  San 
Marino, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Switzerland, the former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Ukraine  and  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/71/L.31 without a vote?
Draft resolution A/71/L.31 was adopted (resolution 
71/126).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/71/L.32, entitled 
“Strengthening  of  the  coordination  of  emergency 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations”.
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of the draft resolution, and 
in addition to those delegations listed in the document, 
the following countries have become sponsors of draft 
resolution  A/71/L.32:  Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina, 
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, the Plurinational 
State  of  Bolivia,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Brazil, 
Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, 
the Czech Republic, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, 
Estonia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Greece,  Guatemala,  Honduras,  Hungary,  Iceland, 
Indonesia,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Kenya,  Latvia, 
Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, 
the  Marshall  Islands,  Mexico,  the  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, 
Nauru, 
the  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway, 
Palau,  Panama,  the  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  the 
Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, 
Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, 
Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Thailand,  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Tonga,  Tunisia, 
Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and  Northern  Ireland,  the  United  States  of  America, 
Uruguay, Uzbekistan and Vanuatu.
Draft resolution A/71/L.32 was adopted (resolution 
71/127).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will 
now  take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/71/L.33, 
entitled  “International  cooperation  on  humanitarian 
assistance in the field of natural disasters, from relief 
to development”. I give the floor to the representative 
of the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of the draft resolution, and 
in addition to those delegations listed in the document, 
the following countries have become sponsors of draft 
resolution  A/71/L.33:  Albania,  Armenia,  Australia, 
Austria,  Bulgaria,  Canada,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Finland, 
France,  Germany,  Greece,  Hungary,  Italy,  Japan, 
Latvia,  Lithuania,  Malta,  Mexico,  Montenegro,  the 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Poland,  Romania,  Serbia, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Turkey  and  the 
United States of America.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/71/L.33?
Draft resolution A/71/L.33 was adopted (resolution 
71/128).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/71/L.34, entitled 
“Safety  and  security  of  humanitarian  personnel  and 
protection of United Nations personnel”.
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of the draft resolution, and 
in addition to those delegations listed in the document, 
the following countries have become sponsors of draft 
resolution  A/71/L.34:  Andorra,  Argentina,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Chile,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Iceland, 
Malawi,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro, 
the  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Panama,  the  Philippines, 
the  Republic  of  Korea,  San  Marino,  Senegal,  Serbia, 
Somalia, Turkey and Uruguay.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/71/L.32 without a vote?
The Acting President: In accordance with rule 90 
of the Assembly’s rules of procedure, the Assembly will 
first take a decision on the proposed draft amendments 
16-42551
15/19
A/71/PV.57 
08/12/2016
to  draft  resolution  A/71/L.34,  issued  as  documents 
A/71/L.36 and A/71/l.37, one by one.
We  will  first  take  action  on  the  draft  amendment 
recorded  vote  has 
in  A/71/L.36.  A 
contained 
been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Bahrain,  Belarus,  Burundi,  China,  Cuba,  Egypt, 
Eritrea,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic  of),  Iraq,  Kuwait, 
Morocco,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Oman,  Pakistan, 
Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South 
Africa, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab 
Emirates
Against:
Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, 
Australia,  Austria,  Barbados,  Belgium,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Canada,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa 
Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, 
Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  El  Salvador, 
Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Greece,  Guatemala,  Honduras,  Hungary,  Iceland, 
Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan,  Latvia, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Marshall 
Islands,  Mexico,  Micronesia  (Federated  States 
of), Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Netherlands, 
New  Zealand,  Norway,  Panama,  Paraguay, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste, 
Tunisia, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and  Northern  Ireland,  United  States  of  America, 
Uruguay,  Vanuatu,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic of)
Abstaining:
Algeria, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei Darussalam, 
Cambodia,  Ethiopia,  India,  Indonesia,  Kenya, 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Mauritius, 
Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Nigeria, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  Qatar,  Singapore,  Somalia, 
Turkey, Uganda, Viet Nam
[Subsequently, the delegations of the Niger, Samoa 
and Senegal informed the Secretariat that they had 
intended to vote against.]
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take  a  decision  on  the  draft  amendment  contained  in 
A/71/L.37. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Belarus,  Burundi,  China,  Cuba,  Egypt,  Eritrea, 
Iraq,  Morocco,  Nicaragua,  Oman,  Pakistan, 
Russian  Federation,  Saudi  Arabia,  South  Africa, 
Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic
Against:
Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, 
Australia,  Austria,  Bangladesh,  Barbados, 
Belgium,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, 
Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech 
Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
El  Salvador,  Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia, 
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, 
Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan, 
Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall 
Islands, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), 
Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Netherlands, New 
Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, 
Philippines, Poland, Republic of Korea, Republic of 
Moldova,  Romania,  San  Marino,  Senegal,  Serbia, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Thailand, 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Tunisia, Ukraine, United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
United  States  of  America,  Uruguay,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
the 
Abstaining:
Algeria,  Angola,  Bahrain,  Bhutan,  Brunei 
Darussalam, Cambodia, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, 
Iran 
(Islamic  Republic  of),  Kenya,  Kuwait, 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Mauritius, 
Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nepal,  Papua 
New  Guinea,  Qatar,  Singapore,  Somalia,  Turkey, 
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Viet Nam
The  draft  amendment  contained  in  A/71/L.36  was 
rejected by 22 votes to 80, with 23 abstentions.
The  draft  amendment  contained  in  A/71/L.37  was 
rejected by 16 votes to 84, with 26 abstentions.
16/19 
16-42551
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.57
[Subsequently,  the  delegations  of  the  Niger  and 
Samoa  informed  the  Secretariat  that  they  had 
intended to vote against.]
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/71/L.34?
Draft resolution A/71/L.34 was adopted (resolution 
71/129).
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 
the 
representative  of  Lithuania,  who  wishes  to  speak  on 
the resolution just adopted. May I remind delegations 
that explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Ms.  Šorytė  (Lithuania):  I  would  like  to  present 
my country’s explanation of vote on resolution 71/125, 
entitled “Persistent legacy of the Chernobyl disaster”.
after 
Thirty  years 
the  Chernobyl  nuclear 
disaster  —  one  of  the  biggest  disasters  in  human 
history — we continue to witness the long-term impact 
of  Chernobyl,  with  its  humanitarian,  environmental, 
social,  economic  and  health  consequences.  We 
appreciate  the  efforts  of  the  international  community 
to  mitigate  the  consequences  of  the  accident.  The 
solidarity  of  regional  and  global  partners  in  the  face 
of such accidents is crucial. However, solidarity must 
be genuine and go well beyond mere declarations such 
as the Minsk Declaration referred to in the resolution 
adopted today.
Lithuania remains concerned about the construction 
of a nuclear plant in very close proximity to my country, 
without  the  provision  of  full,  reliable  and  transparent 
information on many aspects of the project, including 
on  how  to  ensure  that  provisions  under  international 
conventions and nuclear-safety standards are respected 
and  implemented,  the  seismic  evaluation  of  the  site, 
emergency-preparedness  plans  and  various  other 
crucial safety aspects.
As  we  remember  the  tragedy  of  Chernobyl,  we 
must once again stress the urgency of doing everything 
we  can  in  order  to  avoid  and  prevent  other  nuclear 
disaster.  The  lessons  of  the  Chernobyl  disaster  force 
us to develop nuclear technologies in conformity with 
the spirit and letter of international nuclear-safety and 
security  requirements.  We  recognize  and  respect  the 
right of States to develop peaceful nuclear programmes. 
However,  this  should  be  done  while  keeping  in  mind 
the broader context of transboundary implications and 
in full compliance with the rules and requirements of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  the 
Convention  on  Environmental  Impact  Assessment  in 
a  Transboundary  Context  and  other  international  and 
regional bodies.
Confidence-building  and  ensuring  maximum 
safety  are  crucial  for  nuclear  energy  development. 
Implementation  of  stress 
tests  and  IAEA  safety 
standards,  adherence  to  the  Convention  on  Nuclear 
Safety,  cooperation  with  specialized  IAEA  missions, 
including  Site  and  External  Events  Design  review 
missions for the entire nuclear cycle, should be integral 
parts  of  each  and  every  nuclear-power  programme. 
We call on all countries that develop nuclear energy to 
implement the highest international nuclear-safety and 
environmental requirements throughout the full nuclear-
facility cycle in the most comprehensive manner, as it 
is the only reliable way to avoid and prevent disasters 
similar to Chernobyl in future.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of vote after the voting.
Several delegations have asked to speak in exercise 
of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  Member  States 
that statements in the exercise of the right of reply are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
five minutes for the second intervention and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
(spoke 
Mr.  Pronin 
(Russian  Federation) 
in 
Russian): I should like to begin with a general remark on 
today’s meeting. Sub-item (a) of agenda item 69, which 
is the topic of the meeting, focuses on the coordination 
of  humanitarian  assistance.  To  be  frank,  we  expected 
the meeting to be an opportunity to exchange views on 
the substantive content of the agenda for international 
cooperation on humanitarian response. That is what we 
based our statement on.
Regrettably,  I  must  note  that  we  have  recently 
seen  a  clear  trend  towards  the  politicization  of  the 
humanitarian  dossier,  where  matters  of  assistance 
to those in need are put on the back burner and what 
comes to the fore are political discussions, unjustified 
accusations and exchanges of caustic remarks specific 
to  specialized  committees  and  the  Security  Council. 
Unfortunately,  today’s  meeting,  which  has  taken  up 
the entire day, has hardly provided an opportunity for 
a meaningful discussion on the possibility of building 
cooperation  for  humanitarian  assistance,  which  is  a 
great pity.
16-42551
17/19
A/71/PV.57 
08/12/2016
I do not wish to delve into a political discussion or 
respond in detail to the statement of the representative 
of Ukraine, in which he made some remarks about my 
country (see A/71/PV.56). However, we do indeed have 
something to say about the de facto economic blockade 
of populations in the Republic and the fact that they are 
being punished for their unwillingness to acknowledge 
the unconstitutional coup that occurred in the capital. 
Members may refer to our statement on this topic, which 
has been delivered in the Third Committee, the Sixth 
Committee and in other General Assembly meetings. 
I  should  like  to  call  on  everyone  to  focus  the 
discussion on the substantive content of humanitarian 
cooperation  and  meaningful  practical  initiatives  that 
could  improve  the  humanitarian  situation  in  affected 
countries,  rather  than  open  up  yet  another  political 
discussion in this Hall. As we see it, having the latter 
discussion is not the reason we have come here today.
Mr. Amer (Israel) (spoke in Arabic): Today we have 
heard numerous accusations levelled against the State 
of Israel that ignore realities and distort facts. Attacking 
Israel has become a hobby and pastime of some of our 
neighbours that will ultimately prove futile. Attacking 
Israel  is  a  failed  attempt  to  divert  attention  from  the 
brutal crimes perpetrated by the Syrian regime. 
From  this  rostrum,  the  representative  of  Syria 
spoke in a bizarre manner, distorting facts and giving 
free  rein  to  his  imagination.  The  words  he  used  had 
little  connection  to  reality.  Tampering  with  the  truth, 
he  uttered  lies.  His  army  continues  to  drop  barrel 
bombs upon its citizens, including the elderly, children 
and women, while Israel has aided and provided health 
services to many innocent injured Syrians. We say now 
to the representative of Syria, “While you kill, we treat 
the injured”. The situation has become very clear. Syria 
is now mocked in the Arab street. 
The representative of Syria mentioned the so-called 
occupied Golan. No comparison can be made between 
the  situation  in  the  Golan  and  the  situation  in  Syria, 
either before or after the tragic war. The situation in the 
Golan is hundreds of thousands of times better than that 
in Syria and other parts of the Arab world with respect 
to  the  provision  of  services,  including  welfare,  social 
services, employment opportunities, pensions and the 
economic situation.
We exhort the representative of Syria not to venture 
any further down that path.
Mr. Lisuchenko (Ukraine): For the sake of time, I 
will be brief. It is obvious that there is a direct causal 
link between Russian actions in Ukraine since February 
2014 and the dire humanitarian situation in my country. 
This  has  been  confirmed  on  numerous  occasions 
by  reports  of  various  United  Nations  agencies,  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
Special Monitoring Mission in Ukraine, and during the 
debates heard in the Third and Sixth Committees of the 
General Assembly.
To become fully aware of the current humanitarian 
situation  in  my  country,  I  invite  all  the  delegations 
to  attend  the  briefing  that  will  be  held  by  the  United 
Nations  Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian 
Affairs next week.
Mr.  Awad  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  The  representative  of  the  Government  of 
Israeli occupation spoke disparagingly of the situation 
in my country, and we have responded to him. However, 
our response was not enough for him, so he persists in 
misguiding Member States, believing that the crisis in 
my country will make us forget our arch-enemy, Israel, 
the occupying Power.
My  country  is  the  victim  of  organized  terrorism, 
which, recalling the actions of Israeli terrorist gangs, is 
similar to the terrorism used by Israelis to build their 
country. It is naive to believe in the veracity of the Israeli 
representative’s claims that his Government is looking 
out for people’s interests. Indeed, the situation reveals 
that for six decades the occupying forces have deprived 
the Arab population of their rights and freedoms. Those 
who  occupy  the  territories  of  others  and  who  adopt 
policies of starvation, occupation, confiscation of land, 
assassinations and killings cannot claim to be listening 
to the dictates of their conscience, much less talk about 
humanitarian issues. 
It  is  very  ironic  to  see  the  representative  of  the 
brutal  Zionist  regime  shed  crocodile  tears  over  the 
population  of  Aleppo  and  other  Syrians,  in  the  light 
of the adoption moments ago of resolution 71/126, the 
resolution  on  “Assistance  to  the  Palestinian  people”, 
which addresses the practices of the Israeli regime in 
Palestine and other occupied Arab territories.
At  a  time  when  the  annals  of  the  Organization 
teem with condemnations of the bloody actions taken 
by Israel, the occupying Power, against the defenceless 
Palestinian people and against our people in the occupied 
Syrian  Golan  and  other  Arab  territories  occupied 
18/19 
16-42551
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.57
since 1967, we again recall the terrorist role played by 
Israel, the occupying Power, in the area of separation, 
where it is supporting the Islamic State in Iraq and the 
Levant and other extremist terrorist organizations. The 
current situation, which is clearly described in United 
Nations reports on the United Nations Disengagement 
Observer  Force,  threatens  the  separation  agreements 
and undermines international peace and security in the 
area. 
Israel, the occupying Power, intermittently bombs 
targets in my country to boost the morale of the terrorists 
it  supports.  Those  who  transact  with  terrorists  are 
terrorists themselves, as is stated in numerous Security 
Council resolutions.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 69 and its sub-items (a) to (d).
Agenda item 7 (continued)
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items
Letter dated 7 December 2016 from the Chair 
of the Committee on Conferences addressed 
to the President of the General Assembly 
(A/71/382/Add.1) 
The  Acting  President:  Members  are  aware  that, 
pursuant to section 1, paragraph 7, of resolution 40/243, 
no  subsidiary  organ  of  the  General  Assembly  should 
be  permitted  to  meet  at  United  Nations  Headquarters 
during the main part of a regular session of the Assembly, 
unless explicitly authorized by the Assembly.
Authorization  is  thus  sought  for  the  Open-ended 
Working Group on Ageing to meet in New York from 
12 to 15 December, during the main part of the seventy-
first  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  on  the  strict 
understanding  that  all  meetings  would  be  allocated 
conference  services  on  an  as-available  basis,  from 
within  existing  resources,  and  in  such  a  way  that  the 
work of the General Assembly and its Main Committees 
is not impeded.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to authorize the Open-ended Working Group 
on Ageing to meet during the main part of the seventy-
first session of the General Assembly?
It was so decided.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  make  the 
following  announcement  concerning  the  work  of  the 
plenary. The consideration of agenda item 14, entitled 
“Culture  of  peace”,  and  agenda  item  127,  entitled 
“Global health and foreign policy”, originally scheduled 
for  tomorrow,  Friday,  9  December,  is  postponed  to 
Thursday, 15 December.
Additionally,  as  indicated  in  a  letter  from  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  to  Member  States 
that  was  sent  today,  the  Assembly  will  now  consider 
agenda item 31, entitled “Prevention of armed conflict”, 
tomorrow, Friday, 9 December, at 10 a.m., to take action 
on draft resolution A/71/L.39.
Lastly,  the  consideration  of  the  following  agenda 
items, originally scheduled for Monday, 12 December, 
is  also  postponed  to  a  later  date  to  be  announced: 
agenda  item  32,  entitled  “Protracted  conflicts  in  the 
GUAM  area  and  their  implications  for  international 
peace,  security  and  development”;  agenda  item  33, 
entitled  “Zone  of  peace  and  cooperation  of  the  South 
Atlantic”;  agenda  item  37,  entitled  “The  situation  in 
the  occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan”;  sub-item  (c) 
of agenda item 114, entitled “Election of five members 
of the Organizational Committee of the Peacebuilding 
Commission”; sub-item (l) of agenda item 115, entitled 
“Appointment  of  the  judges  of  the  United  Nations 
Dispute  Tribunal”;  and  agenda  item  128,  entitled 
“International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons 
Responsible  for  Serious  Violations  of  International 
Humanitarian  Law  Committed  in  the  Territory  of  the 
Former Yugoslavia since 1991”.
The meeting rose at 5.05 p.m. 
16-42551
19/19
