United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
9th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 20 September 2016, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.9
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 3.50 p.m.
Address by Mr. Béji Caïd Essebsi, President of the 
Republic of Tunisia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Béji  Caïd  Essebsi, 
President of the Republic of Tunisia
into 
Béji  Caïd  Essebsi,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Tunisia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Béji  Caïd  Essebsi,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Tunisia,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
President Essebsi (spoke in Arabic): Allow me, at 
the outset, to express to you, President Thomson, and 
through you to your country, our congratulations on the 
trust  placed  in  you  to  guide  the  work  of  this  session. 
We  have  great  hopes  that  this  session  will  help  us 
embed  the  principles  underpinning  the  Organization 
and  the  General  Assembly.  We  very  much  hope  that 
this  occasion  will  also  be  an  opportunity  to  promote 
international collaboration. I would also like to express 
to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  my  most  sincere 
thanks and appreciation for all of his great efforts for 
the  good  of  peoples  around  the  world,  as  well  as  his 
promotion of the noble principles of the United Nations.
This session is taking place at the same time as the 
celebration of independence of the State of Tunisia — 60 
years  of  independence  as  a  modern  country.  It  is  60 
years  since  we  joined  the  United  Nations,  and  this  is 
an opportunity for us to reiterate how much Tunisia is 
committed  to  the  purposes  and  principles  behind  the 
creation of the Organization. We are fully prepared to 
pursue assistance to the Organization so that the United 
Nations  can  accomplish  its  noble  goal  of  promoting 
peace,  security,  human 
rights  and  development 
throughout the world.
Tunisia has had the unique experience of building 
democracy  based  on  national  accord  so  that  we  can 
overcome  differences  in  political  opinion.  That  has 
allowed  us  to  see  major  political  accomplishments. 
We  have  a  new,  modern  Constitution.  We  have  held 
legislative and presidential elections that were witnessed 
by the entire world and declared transparent, free and 
fair.  That  has  increased  our  confidence  in  ourselves 
and has made us more able to face up to the challenges 
we face. It also led to the Tunisian National Dialogue 
Quartet winning the Nobel Peace Prize in 2015, which 
in turn enabled us to rectify our political trajectory to 
overcome a political impasse.
Our  democratic  experience  in  Tunisia  has  had 
major  achievements,  but  we  still  need  support.  Given 
our  fragile  economy,  we  still  need  to  strengthen  our 
democracy.  Five  years  have  already  gone  by  since 
the  2011  Tunisian  revolution,  but  we  are  still  facing 
enormous challenges on the path towards achieving an 
economic revival and improving living standards.
We  have  launched  an  ambitious  initiative  to  meet 
the expectations of the Tunisian people. We called for 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29302 (E)
*1629302*
A/71/PV.9 
20/09/2016
the establishment of a Government of national unity that 
would be capable of satisfying our needs at this stage 
in  our  history:  winning  the  fight  against  terrorism, 
accelerating  coordination  between  development  and 
growth,  stimulating  job  creation,  fighting  corruption 
and laying the foundations for good governance and for 
the implementation of effective social policies.
This  initiative  has  enjoyed  broad  support  from 
political parties and different national organizations. It 
led  to  the  establishment  of  a  Government  of  national 
unity,  with  robust  participation  by  women,  headed 
by  a  young  leader.  This  reflects  our  determination  to 
allow  young  people  and  women  to  assume  important 
roles  in  this  democratic  experience.  Tunisia  left 
authoritarianism behind in 2011, and our country is now 
under the rule of law. We reiterate our determination to 
move forward toward further democracy and freedom 
and to face up to all attempts to take us back in time.
Of  course,  we  are  still  a  young  country.  We  are 
facing  major  economic  and  social  challenges  of  an 
unprecented scale that jeopardize our path to the future, 
especially  given  the  regional  context,  particularly 
regional  terrorism.  That  requires  us  to  seek  robust 
support  from  our  partners  so  that  we  can  overcome 
the  challenges  and  osbtacles  and  make  headway  on 
internal development and create jobs for young people, 
particularly those with qualifications.
On  29  and  30  November,  Tunisia  will  host  an 
international  conference  to  support  the  economy  and 
seek  investment.  Participants  will  include  Heads  of 
State and Government, representatives of international 
organizations, 
society 
representatives and representatives from the public and 
private sectors. It will be an opportunity for our brothers 
and friends to express their support and solidarity with 
Tunisia, including their support for democracy in our 
country at this particularly critical point in time.
investment 
funds, 
civil 
This  year’s  general  debate 
is  of  particular 
importance,  especially  following  the  adoption  of  the 
new Sustainable Development Goals. It is of particular 
importance  because  it  is  linked  to  the  ambitious 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  Tunisia 
also  adopted  ambitious  goals  in  establishing  our  own 
development plan. We will spare no effort to make the 
2030 Agenda a reality. 
We call upon all partners to redouble their efforts 
to assist developing countries as they seek to achieve 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  including  by 
providing  them  with  the  support  they  are  counting 
on  —  especially  for  African  countries,  which  are 
encountering many economic, social and environmental 
difficulties. Those challenges require robust assistance 
from  the  international  community  so  that  African 
communities  and  countries  can  achieve  development. 
We need to make certain that we can do that in order 
to ensure that we have peace, stability and security and 
so that we can prevent conflicts and confront terrorism 
and extremism.
Today,  we  renew  our  commitment  to  the  African 
Union Agenda 2063, which is the sum of our ambitions 
and  our  dedication.  Given  the  close  link  between 
peace,  security  and  development,  we  also  renew  our 
commitment  to  strengthening  our  participation  in 
United Nations peacekeeping operations and to taking 
a  more  active  role  in  capacity-building  within  the 
African continent, including on military assistance.
The Arab world is seeing an increase in violence and 
conflict, which is a major source of concern. Violence, 
extremism and terrorism are spreading. We have seen 
that lead to an increase in organized criminal activity, 
which  is  destabilizing  every  one  of  our  countries 
without  exception.  The  lack  of  stability  in  the  Arab 
world is just a part of the instability found throughout 
the  world.  Therefore,  we  call  upon  everyone  to  find 
urgent political solutions to all the issues concerning the 
region. First and foremost is the Palestinian question, 
which requires a fair, comprehensive solution that will 
provide justice for the Palestinian people, bring an end 
to their suffering and allow them to obtain their historic 
legitimate  rights,  in  particular  the  establishment  of 
an  independent  State,  with  Al-Quds  as  its  capital,  in 
conformity with related international decisions.
We  are  greatly  concerned  by  the  crisis  in  Libya, 
and  our  concerns  will  remain  while  instability  reigns 
in that brotherly country, with all the implications that 
it can have for our security and our economy. We are 
firmly  committed  to  promoting  reconciliation  and 
agreement between the different parties in Libya so that 
they  can  implement  all  phases  of  the  Libyan  Political 
Agreement,  signed  in  17  December  2015,  under  the 
auspices of the United Nations. We shall also continue 
our support for the Government of National Accord so 
that  it  can  assume  its  responsibilities  and  accomplish 
its role in re-establishing peace, stability and security 
and  in  combating  terrorism  and  improving  the  living 
standards of the Libyan people.
2/18 
16-29302
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.9
We are following with concern the evolution of the 
situations in Syria and Yemen. We are concerned about 
the  implications  for  security  and  the  humanitarian 
disaster  resulting  from  those  conflicts.  We  need  a 
political solution to the situations in those two countries 
so  that  they  can  maintain  their  unity  and  territorial 
integrity in order to ensure peace.
took 
Mr.  Onyeama  (Nigeria),  Vice-President, 
the Chair.
I stand here before the Assembly as we commemorate 
our  independence  and  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  our 
accession to the Organization. That reminds me of the 
founder of modern Tunisia, Habib Bourguiba, who in 
a speech confirmed that Tunisia, having recovered its 
independence,  declared  its  complete  commitment  to 
the purposes and principles and the noble humanitarian 
values  enshrined 
the  United 
Nations.  Today,  as  we  begin  a  new  chapter  in  our 
history — our ancient history — with many efforts to 
advance democracy and the protection and promotion 
of  human  rights,  we  again  affirm  our  determination 
to  create  a  conducive  environment  for  our  citizens  to 
be able to live in dignity. As Tunisia grounds itself on 
the efforts of the Tunisian people, with the support of 
our brothers and partners, we firmly believe that those 
efforts  will  be  successful  in  contributing  to  security 
and peace in the region and worldwide.
the  Charter  of 
in 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Tunisia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Béji  Caïd  Essebsi,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Tunisia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Andrzej Duda, President of the 
Republic of Poland
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Poland.
into 
Mr.  Andrzej  Duda,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Poland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Andrzej  Duda,  President 
of the Republic of Poland, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Duda  (spoke  in  Polish;  interpretation 
provided  by  the  delegation):  At  the  outset,  I  wish  to 
congratulate  Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session,  on  his 
election to his important position. I assure him of my 
country’s full support for his effort. At the same time, 
I  wish  to  express  my  warm  gratitude  to  Mr.  Mogens 
Lykketoft for his active presidency during the seventieth 
session, during which I was honoured to take part for 
the  first  time  in  my  capacity  as  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Poland.
Sustainable  development, 
the  protection  of 
human  rights,  and  peace  and  security  are  the  goals 
pursued  by  the  United  Nations  the  achievement  of 
which  humankind  deeply  yearns.  By  adopting  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the 
new  Sustainable  Development  Goals  last  year,  we 
demonstrated  that  we  are  capable  of  acting  together 
as  an  international  community  to  achieve  success, 
implement  the  required  tasks  and,  at  the  same  time, 
approach new ambitious goals.
I wish to address the three foundations of sustainable 
development,  without  which  such  development  will 
never  be  possible.  It  is  my  profound  conviction  that 
these are the rules with which we should all identify if 
we truly care about human happiness and the successful 
progress  of  our  nations.  These  three  rules  —  the 
three  foundations  of  sustainable  development  —  are 
responsibility, solidarity and justice.
Responsibility  arises  from  our  obligation 
to 
safeguard  the  heritage  that  we  are  going  to  leave  to 
our  children  and  grandchildren:  how  we  are  going 
to  be  remembered  by  them  and  what  they  are  going 
to  write  about  us  in  history  books.  Responsibility  is 
underpinned  by  the  conviction  that  history  neither 
begins  nor  ends  here  and  now,  but  is  a  succession  of 
generations, destinies and commitments.
Understood  in  that  way,  responsibility  nowadays 
pertains  in  particular  to  social  issues  and  the  natural 
environment. Responsible development is development 
that cares for the appropriate continuity to be preserved 
between generations — past, present and future. As in 
an Olympic relay, the smooth handing off of the baton is 
of key importance when one approaches the changeover 
box.
On  many  occasions,  as  history  has  illustrated, 
this  historical  continuity  is  interrupted.  This  is  what 
happens  when  people  want  to  build  too  rapidly  while 
16-29302
3/18
A/71/PV.9 
20/09/2016
destroying  what  our  forebearers  left  behind,  acting 
against their beliefs and their sense of rightness. When 
order gives in to chaos, social bonds are destroyed and 
fear and anxiety are aroused. When respect for tradition 
is  absent  and  social  engineering  is  used  instead, 
development itself is not possible, let alone sustainable 
development.
Progress  that  does  not  create  but  destroys  is  in 
fact  regression.  Family  is  the  basic  form  of  human 
community that harmoniously links together succeeding 
generations.  That  is  why  solicitude  for  its  durability 
and  welfare  is  so  crucially  significant.  Human  rights 
are  also  family  rights,  and  their  attainment  involves 
active  support  for  a  multigenerational  society.  The 
main instrument of the latter is a pro-family policy.
I  am  proud  to  declare  that  the  authorities  of  the 
Republic of Poland are now carrying out an ambitious 
for 
programme 
living  conditions 
of  children 
in  Polish  families.  The  groundwork 
underpinning  any  development  is  the  creation  of 
appropriate conditions for the conception of new life.
improving 
the 
The second challenge to sustainable development, 
one  which  also  calls  for  responsible  policies,  is  care 
for  the  natural  environment.  The  implementation  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  will 
not  be  possible  without  fighting  the  degradation  of 
nature — an effort to be undertaken with determination 
and consistency. We were reminded by Pope Francis, in 
his encyclical Laudato si’, that the natural environment 
is a common good, belonging to all and meant for all.
The immensity of the challenges we face can be best 
illustrated  by  the  fact  that,  at  the  recent  International 
Geological Congress, scholars came to the conclusion 
that  we  might  describe  a  new  geological  era,  termed 
Anthropocene.  For  the  very  first  time  in  the  history 
of  the  Earth,  this  era  has  not  been  determined  by 
geological but by human activity.
We realize what grave environmental consequences 
changes in the natural environment produce. However, 
their social, economic and political ramifications are of 
equal importance. We can already ask ourselves whether 
we  are  threatened  by  climate  wars.  This  is  precisely 
why only global actions undertaken in concord by all 
States can bring about improvement in the condition of 
nature on our Earth.
Last year in Paris we jointly demonstrated that we 
are capable of taking responsible decisions by adopting 
a  new  climate  agreement.  The  Republic  of  Poland 
was an active participant in those negotiations. I wish 
to  inform  the  Assembly  that  Poland  has  initiated  the 
process of ratifying the Paris Agreement and the Doha 
Amendment. As President of the Republic of Poland, I 
attach great importance to its conclusion as quickly as 
possible, in line with the provisions of our Constitution.
the  natural  environment, 
however,  involves  more  than  the  mere  prevention  of 
climate change. In line with the spirit of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, it also includes protecting 
the  water  and  the  soil  and  fighting  desertification. 
Responsible development requires a balanced approach, 
and therefore the natural environment should be viewed 
from the three perspectives of water, soil and air.
Responsibility 
for 
If it is to be sustainable, development must also take 
into  account  the  specificity  of  individual  countries, 
particularly their economic and employment structures.
The  second  pillar  of  sustainable  development  is 
solidarity. This concept is particularly close to the hearts 
of the Polish people, who, led by the social movement 
bearing the same name, carried out a peaceful political 
transformation a quarter of a century ago, rejecting the 
system founded on lies and enslavement. It is thanks to a 
community that is sensitive to the misfortunes of others 
and respectful of all people, regardless of their origin or 
financial situation, that Polish solidarity is built upon 
such durable foundations. Today the Republic of Poland 
implements  the  principle  of  solidarity  on  two  planes: 
domestic, and global.
Solidarity is a development undertaken in the name 
of welfare for all social groups, not only those that are 
strongest and most influential. Politics operating in the 
spirit of solidarity are politics that care for the weakest, 
not the strongest. That is why it must rely on solidarity 
between  employers  and  employees,  and  solidarity 
between more developed and less developed regions.
Finally,  the  most  fundamental  solidarity  is  a 
solidarity with those who have a sense of attainment, 
with those who struggle to survive each and every day. 
Only  a  development  model  founded  on  solidarity  is 
capable  of  producing  a  system  where  man,  his  needs 
and his aspirations are at its centre. This system must 
afford equal opportunities to all and allow us to tap into 
the  potential  represented  by  those  who  have  thus  far 
been living in social exclusion.
4/18 
16-29302
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.9
It  is  the  concept  of  development  founded  on 
solidarity that lies at the heart of the policies pursued 
by Poland’s present Government. In line with its tenets, 
improvement of the quality of life of all citizens should 
arise from the measures taken by the Government, and 
not  just  macroeconomic  indicators,  which  are  often 
insufficient  in  translating  the  advancement  of  the 
former.
We do not want to be captives of economic dogmas; 
we want solutions that allow the active participation of 
all social groups in development processes, giving them 
equal  opportunity  to  benefit  from  economic  growth. 
Such solutions will produce the expected outcomes for 
restraining exclusion and poverty and for levelling out 
social inequalities.
Our policy is therefore consistent with the ambitious 
vision of the 2030 Agenda, which we jointly decided to 
implement one year ago. I think the time has come to 
start a global coalition of States for the solidarity-based 
development  of  societies.  Solidarity  in  international 
relations  is,  first  and  foremost,  humanitarian  and 
developmental aid in all territories affected by military 
conflicts, economic crises or natural disasters.
The unprecedented scale of migration flows in the 
contemporary world — a phenomenon that we need to 
confront directly — is a reminder of our great shared 
responsibility:  to  begin  actions  to  eliminate  the  real 
roots of poverty and to guarantee everyone the right to 
live in his or her own home country.
Poland has been watching with anxiety and concern 
the  growing  number  of  people  affected  by  conflicts, 
especially in Syria and in Ukraine. Guided by our sense 
of solidarity, we have increased our humanitarian and 
development aid in the Middle East region and to the 
East. 
In  our  efforts  to  build  peace  and  sustainable 
development,  we  attach  great  importance  to  the 
education  of  children  and  young  people.  That  is  why 
we  provide  financial  support  to  education  projects  in 
Africa. My country has been, and will continue to be, an 
active advocate for solidarity in the international arena.
third  pillar  of  sustainable  development 
is  justice.  A  just  and  equitable  order,  where  the 
sustainable  development  model  can  be  delivered,  is 
founded  on  respect  for  human  rights  and  the  law  of 
nations. Individual freedom, the dignity of the human 
person, the inviolability of human life and freedom of 
The 
conscience and religion are all constituent parts of the 
catalogue of inalienable human rights, which nowadays 
call  for  particular  protection.  There  are  far  too  many 
places around the world where freedom is restricted by 
an oppressive political system, human dignity is violated 
and humankind’s most fundamental right — the right to 
life — is encroached upon.
Our  fundamental  objection  is  that  there  are  so 
many  places  in  the  world  where  people  die  because 
of  the  religion  they  profess,  which  is  only  a  matter 
of  conscience.  We  cannot  stay  silent  in  the  face  of 
suffering  Christians  who  are  murdered  in  the  name 
of  religious  fanaticism.  The  world  must  react  to  the 
phenomenon  of  religion-based  genocide,  which  has 
become increasingly common.
That  is  why  Poland  welcomed  with  particular 
satisfaction  the  fact  that  the  protection  of  human 
rights  has  been  given  pride  of  place  among  the 
priorities  of  the  new  development  agenda.  Through 
our  global  agreement,  we  have  jointly  reaffirmed  the 
interdependence  that  exists  between  development  and 
human rights and freedoms. Only through respect for 
all  human  rights  —  political,  social,  economic  and 
cultural — can we fully harness human potential and 
eventually  implement  the  sustainable  development 
model.  Nevertheless,  it  must  be  remembered  that  all 
human  rights  are  derived  from  the  most  fundamental 
one, namely, the right to life.
Our  endeavours  to  make  the  world  a  better  place 
to  live  will  be  futile,  however,  if  we  are  incapable  of 
safeguarding the absolute primacy of international law 
in relations among States. Last year, in this very Hall, I 
spoke about the need to ground international relations 
in  law  (see  A/70/PV.13).  I  went  on  to  emphasize  that 
all  States  were  equally  obligated  to  carry  out  their 
that  any  actions 
international  commitments  and 
violating  provisions  of 
law,  among 
them  political  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  in 
particular,  should  be  categorically  denounced  by  the 
global community.
international 
Today, I wish to reiterate, in the clearest terms, that 
we must abide by the rules, a principle best expressed 
by  a  Roman  proverb,  “ex  injuria  jus  non  oritur”, 
meaning  that  law  cannot  arise  from  illegal  acts.  A 
non-agressor  has  a  right  to  the  territory  he  occupies. 
We reject the system by which it is the politics of force 
and  aggression  that  decides  a  nation’s  destiny.  Peace 
and  security  are  two  fundamental  preconditions  for 
16-29302
5/18
A/71/PV.9 
20/09/2016
sustainable  development.  The  effectiveness  of  global 
action  in  that  regard  will  depend  on  international 
solidarity and concerted action among States.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Poland for the statement he has just made.
In  the  meantime,  any  act  of  aggression  that 
encroaches on international commitments undermines 
mutual trust among States and societies. It undermines 
the order that was so strenuously built in the wake of 
the  Second  World  War.  That  is  why  it  is  so  crucially 
important to ensure that the policy of force will always 
be met with the decisive opposition of the international 
community.  For  the  law  to  be  effective,  any  violation 
thereof  must  absolutely 
the  execution  of 
significant countermeasures.
trigger 
I also wish to highlight the fact that the realization 
of  the  principle  of  justice  in  international  relations  is 
equally jeopardized if we decide to base it on the division 
of spheres of influence among super-Powers, for proxy 
wars would break out, respect for the subjective status 
of weaker States would disappear and the freedom and 
equality  of  States  and  nations  would  be  encroached 
upon. Let us recall than any instance of peace made at 
the expense of someone else’s freedom can hardly ever 
last and is never equitable.
This year, my country has hosted two events that 
restore faith in the power of international cooperation 
among  States  and  nations.  The  North  Atlantic  Treaty 
Organization  Summit  in  July  testified  to  NATO’s 
unity  in  the  effort  to  build  peace  and  freedom  in  the 
trans-Atlantic  space.  It  was  an  expression  of  the 
failed responsibility of NATO countries that led to an 
agreement  resulting  in  Europe’s  heightened  security. 
The outcomes of the Warsaw Summit are an expression 
of  allied  solidarity  and  respect  for  the  independence 
of  free  nations,  and  hence  the  values  that  underpin 
equitable international order.
Soon after the NATO Summit, in my hometown of 
Krakow, we celebrated International Youth Day, during 
which young people from all over the world met with 
Pope  Francis.  Those  days  were  a  time  of  celebration, 
a  time  of  joy,  friendship  and  love.  The  young  people 
who gathered in Poland taught us that the road to peace 
begins  with  human  solidarity,  based  on  concern  for 
others regardless of origin or religion. 
Responsibility, solidarity and justice are the pillars 
on  which  Poland  would  like  to  build  an  international 
community  for  the  sustainable  development  of  free 
nations and equal States.
Mr.  Andrzej  Duda,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Poland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the 
Republic of South Africa
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
South Africa.
  Mr.  Jacob  Zuma,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
South  Africa,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jacob  Zuma,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  South  Africa,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Zuma:  I  wish  to  congratulate  the 
President  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  I  assure  him  of 
South Africa’s continued support in the implementation 
of his priorities and responsibilities throughout his term.
We also commend Mr. Mogens Lykketoft of Denmark 
for his able stewardship of the General Assembly during 
its historic seventieth session.
The year 2016 is an important year in South Africa, 
as we mark two significant historic anniversaries in our 
country.  We  recently  marked  the  sixtieth  anniversary 
of the 1956 Women’s March against discriminatory and 
racist  laws,  and  the  fortieth  anniversary  of  the  youth 
uprising against apartheid of 16 June 1976. Those two 
events marked significant turning points in the history 
of our struggle against apartheid minority rule in our 
country. The Women’s March brought into sharp focus 
the  gender  dimension  of  the  struggle  and  the  equal 
role  of  women  in  the  fight  against  white  domination, 
oppression and injustice. Equally, the youth uprising 40 
years ago highlighted and cemented the role of young 
people in fighting for liberation and a better society.
We  are  reminded  of  those  two  milestones  as  we 
address  the  theme  of  this  debate:  “The  Sustainable 
Development Goals: a universal push to transform our 
world”. Last year, world leaders marked the seventieth 
anniversary of the United Nations by adopting the 2030 
6/18 
16-29302
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.9
is  poverty,  unemployment  and 
Agenda,  that  is,  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs). We committed ourselves to an ambitious and 
transformative  global  development  programme  that 
seeks  to  address  the  triple  challenge  of  this  century, 
which 
inequality. 
To  a  great  extent, 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  played  a  critical  role  in  galvanizing 
Governments  and  communities  all  over  the  world 
to  put  in  place  programmes  and  policies  aimed  at 
poverty  eradication  and  addressing  socioeconomic 
development, particularly in Africa.
It  is  a  well-known  reality  that  our  continent, 
particularly  sub-Saharan  Africa,  did  not  achieve  the 
targets that were set in the MDGs. It was for that reason 
that  we  insisted  that  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  should  continue  the  unfinished  business  of  the 
MDGs.  We  therefore  have  an  interest  in  ensuring  the 
full implementation of the SDGs as we take forward the 
agenda of promoting Africa’s sustainable development.
We have made significant strides in the past couple 
of decades in reversing the impact of underdevelopment 
and the legacies of colonialism and apartheid in Africa. 
If the African continent is to develop faster, we need to 
address  certain  constraints.  That  includes  inadequate 
infrastructure; high dependency on primary products; 
high  exposure  to  commodity-price  volatility;  limited 
investment  in  research  and  development,  science, 
innovation  and  technology;  and  low  private-sector 
investment, as well as the need to continue improving 
skills.  To  respond  to  some  of  those  constraints,  the 
continent  has  embarked  upon  a  number  of  initiatives, 
including the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, 
the Presidential Infrastructure Championing Initiative, 
the  African  Mining  Vision  and  the  Programme  for 
Infrastructure Development in Africa.
In  South  Africa,  we  have  put  in  place  a  national 
development plan that is aligned with both Agenda 2063 
of the African Union and the Sustainable Development 
Goals. At the core of our development plan is a focus 
on  poverty  eradication  and  raising  the  standard  of 
living  of  our  people.  Our  national  development  plan 
is  also  in  line  with  the  drive  for  the  industrialization 
of  Africa.  That  will  contribute  to  eradicating  poverty 
and  reducing  inequality  and  unemployment,  and  will 
also  contribute  to  global  growth  and  prosperity.  It  is 
therefore imperative that Africa and the least developed 
countries,  which  were 
in  previous 
industrialisation  processes,  not  be  excluded  from  the 
fourth, or new, industrial revolution.
left  behind 
The 
successful 
implementation  of  Africa’s 
development  plans  depends  on  the  availability  of 
resources. We are therefore seriously concerned about 
the  loss  of  the  continent’s  resources  through  illicit 
financial  flows.  The 
joint  African  Union-United 
Nations  Economic  Commission  for  Africa  High-level 
Panel on Illicit Financial Flows from Africa estimates 
that illicit flows from Africa could amount to as much 
as  $50  billion  per  year.  Illicit  financial  flows  deprive 
developing  countries  of  economic  resources  that  are 
much  needed  to  uplift  their  economies  in  order  to 
provide  infrastructure  and  basic  services,  such  as 
education and health care. We urge the world at large 
to treat this problem with the seriousness and urgency 
that it deserves.
The  African  continent 
We  also  need  to  close  the  gap  that  has  painfully 
divided people between rich and the poor and divided 
countries  between  big  and  small  economies.  Global 
inequality  and  economic  exclusion  have  become  a 
serious  threat  to  global  peace  and  stability.  Inclusive 
growth  is  therefore  a  peace,  security  and  prosperity 
imperative.  However,  inclusive  growth  will  remain  a 
distant dream if powerful nations continue to put their 
national interests ahead of the global collective interest.
remains  committed, 
through the African Union and its Peace and Security 
Architecture, to resolving the remaining conflicts. We 
have  committed  ourselves  to  silencing  the  guns  by 
2020. We appeal to the Security Council in particular to 
support African peace operations so that we can achieve 
that noble goal. The situations in Libya, South Sudan 
and the Central African Republic remain a continental 
priority. We strongly urge the Security Council to better 
align and coordinate with the African Union in efforts 
to bring about peace in those sister countries and on the 
continent at large.
Beyond the continent, we remain concerned about 
threats of terrorism. Fifteen years after the 11 September 
terrorist  attacks  on  the  United  States,  international 
terrorism  remains  a  challenge  that  no  single  country 
or region has been able to deal with successfully. We 
have witnessed the rise of the Islamic State in Iraq and 
the Levant and are horrified by its brutal and senseless 
killings.  The  conflicts  in  both  Libya  and  Syria  have 
provided  fertile  ground  for  the  terrorists  to  carry  out 
their unjustified terrorist activities.
In less than five years, the conflict in Syria has led 
to  chaos  in  that  country,  with  a  devastating  effect  on 
16-29302
7/18
A/71/PV.9 
20/09/2016
the stability of the region. The deadlock in the Security 
Council  on  the  Syrian  question  exposes  the  inherent 
structural dysfunction of the 1945 post-Second World 
War consensus. We must therefore ask ourselves if the 
United Nations, and particularly the Security Council 
as  currently  configured,  can  fulfil  its  mandate  in 
addressing the challenges of the twenty-first century.
The  Security  Council  is  supposed  to  act  in  our 
collective interests, without being bogged down by the 
narrow domestic interests of a few States. It is imperative 
and urgent that the United Nations be reformed, and in 
particular the Council. South Africa has been calling, 
and will continue to call, for fundamental reform of the 
Security Council in order to ensure the representation 
of  Africa.  One  billion  people  cannot  continue  to  be 
denied a voice in this manner.
The lack of progress in finding a durable solution 
to  the  Palestinian  question  and  the  Sahrawi  Arab 
Democratic Republic’s struggle for self-determination 
remains  of  major  concern  for  us.  It  is  important  that 
the  United  Nations  carry  out  its  historic  mission  to 
ensure  that  the  two  longest-standing  decolonization 
and occupation issues are resolved once and for all, in 
fulfilment of the objectives set forth under the Charter 
of the United Nations.
The  signing  of  the  Paris  Agreement  last  year 
marked  a  historic  moment  in  humankind’s  resolve  to 
minimize  the  impact  of  climate  change  and  address 
the  human  contribution  to  it.  I  would  like  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  commend  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  for  the  extraordinary  leadership  that  he 
provided since the fifteenth Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change,  held  in  Copenhagen.  He  was  unwavering  in 
his commitment to seeing a legally binding agreement 
finally  agreed  to  by  all.  The  adoption  of  the  Durban 
Platform for Enhanced Action, during the seventeenth 
Conference of the Parties, was a historic milestone and 
marked a turning point in the negotiation of a legally 
binding instrument. It provided a clear road map with 
targets and deadlines.
On  behalf  of  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
South Africa, I would to take this opportunity to salute 
the outgoing Secretary-General of the United Nations, 
His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for the sterling and 
outstanding manner in which he steered the affairs of 
the Organization in the past decade. We wish him well 
in his future endeavours.
We are pleased that for the first time in the history 
of the United Nations the General Assembly has been 
at the centre of the process of finding a new Secretary-
General. We believe in a balanced and equal role between 
the two principal organs of the United Nations on the 
question of the selection of the Secretary-General. The 
General  Assembly,  as  the  most  representative  organ, 
representing  all  the  aspirations  of  the  peoples  of  the 
world, should be central in determining the right man 
or  woman  to  lead  the  United  Nations  into  the  future. 
The  General  Assembly  cannot  be  expected  just  to 
rubber-stamp decisions of the Security Council. South 
Africa is particularly supportive of the proposal to limit 
the term of office of the Secretary-General to a seven-
year non-renewable term in order to allow him or her 
to work without being concerned about reappointment.
South  Africa  looks  forward  to  working  with  the 
President of the General Assembly and other Member 
States throughout this session.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of South Africa for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Jacob  Zuma,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
South  Africa,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Borut Pahor, President of the 
Republic of Slovenia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Slovenia.
the  Republic 
the  General 
Mr.  Borut  Pahor,  President  of 
of  Slovenia,  was  escorted 
into 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Borut Pahor, President of 
the Republic of Slovenia, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Pahor:  Today,  we  bear  witness  to  a 
digital  transformation  all  over  the  globe.  So  far,  it 
has  been  reflected  above  all  in  the  global  economy. 
However,  there  is  no  doubt  that,  very  soon,  that 
transformation will substantially affect every aspect of 
social  life  —  at  the  local,  regional,  and  international 
levels.  I  was  fascinated  by  the  announcement  of  the 
United  States  Department  of  Labor  that  65  per  cent 
8/18 
16-29302
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.9
of  today’s  students  will  be  employed  in  jobs  that  do 
not  exist  at  present.  It  is  true  that  such  forecasts  are 
more  valid  for  the  most  developed  countries,  but  the 
very  essence  of  the  digital  transformation  is  rapidly 
spreading across the globe. 
Be  that  as  it  may,  such  remarkable  technological 
progress should be welcomed. We are filled with hope 
that,  in  this  way,  we  can  find  solutions  to  unsolved 
problems.  However,  like  similar  changes  in  the  past, 
today’s  fourth  industrial  revolution  will  bring  about 
new  problems  and  deepen  some  of  the  old  challenges 
that humankind is facing.
I will speak first about inequality. Yet the issue of 
inequality relates not only to the sense of social justice 
or  injustice  but  increasingly  to  world  peace.  Today’s 
world has not yet come to understand, let alone rid itself 
of,  the  traditional  reasons  for  the  use  of  force  within 
and  between  countries.  And  there  is  already  a  new 
challenge ahead of us, namely, how we should regulate 
technological  progress  so  that  it  benefits  everyone, 
and  not  just  a  privileged  minority.  The  information 
revolution  has  paved  the  way  to  a  global  awareness 
of  social  inequalities.  I  believe  that  that  is  one  of  the 
main  triggers  of  social  conflicts,  including  in  the 
international community.
The  question  of  legal  and  any  other  regulation  of 
the  digital  transformation  is  certainly  a  new  issue  on 
the agenda. That also holds true for the most developed 
countries in the international community. However, the 
globalization of the digital transformation is occurring 
so  swiftly  that  it  will  have  to  be  actively  addressed 
by  the  United  Nations.  We  will  encounter  difficulties 
and obstacles at the beginning, but eventually historic 
necessity will force us to pool our efforts.
Pooling our efforts in creating effective regulation 
on  climate  change  proves  that  we  can  be  successful 
in  our  endeavours.  It  is  quite  possible  that  one  of  the 
elements  of  success  was  the  fact  that  climate  change 
is  a  major  factor  of  global  migration.  And  as  long  as 
migration  is  not  regulated,  it  will  continue  to  cause 
the world’s paramount security problem. In that sense, 
migration  is  yet  another  catalyst  for  the  international 
community to find appropriate common solutions.
In  any  and  all  contexts,  the  peaceful  resolution 
of  conflicts  is  absolutely  essential.  With  regard  to  its 
fundamental  reason  for  existence,  it  seems  that  the 
United  Nations  is  not  effective  enough.  That  should 
be  a  further  reminder  that  the  Organization  ought  to 
adapt to the new circumstances and balance of powers. 
If the United Nations system is not successful in coping 
with  international  conflicts,  it  risks  being  sidelined. 
The  use  of  force  as  an  extreme  means  of  dispute 
resolution  without  the  necessary  endorsement  by  the 
United  Nations  —  for  example,  in  the  fight  against 
terrorism  —  risks  bringing  about  the  decline  of  the 
political and security architecture established after the 
Second World War.
The next leader of the United Nations is therefore 
of crucial importance. My country, Slovenia, is proud 
to  have  presented  Mr.  Danilo  Türk,  our  former  Head 
of  State  and  former  Assistant  Secretary-General  for 
Political  Affairs  with  a  decades-long  commitment  to 
the  United  Nations,  as  a  candidate  for  that  eminent 
post.  I  am  firmly  convinced  that  he  is  a  strong  and 
credible candidate and that it is time that a Secretary-
General  came  from  among  the  Group  of  Eastern 
European States.
I  like  to  present  my  country  as  smart,  green  and 
of just the right size to be a reference country in many 
different aspects, but Slovenia also stands for democracy, 
equality and the peaceful resolution of disputes, and it 
respects international law and principles. We have built 
our community of nations on respect for international 
law  and  on  the  protection  of  individuals  and  their 
human rights. If we wish our societies to flourish, such 
duties must never be far from our minds.
My country is also a strong supporter of effective 
multilateralism and is among those countries that strive 
to bring the global community closer to universal respect 
for human rights, promote respect for international law, 
strengthen the rule of law, foster preventive diplomacy, 
particularly in the field of mediation, protect peace and 
security,  promote  gender  equality,  protect  the  elderly, 
preserve  natural  resources,  implement  sustainable 
development goals and ensure a decent life for all.
Slovenia  will  promote  these  principles  within  the 
United Nations, including as a member of the Human 
Rights  Council  and  a  candidate  for  its  presidency  in 
2018, as a current Chair of the Human Security Network 
and as a member of various informal groupings within 
the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  within  other  regional 
organizations and groupings of which we are members.
After  the  truly  landmark  previous  session  of  the 
General Assembly, it is now time to start implementing 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which, 
together with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, 
16-29302
9/18
A/71/PV.9 
20/09/2016
provides a signpost for and a vision of a more sustainable 
future for our planet and prosperity for its people.
We  will  also  continue  our  efforts  to  have  May 
20  proclaimed  World  Bee  Day.  Our  activities  during 
this  session  of  the  General  Assembly  will  take  place 
mainly within the context of the Food and Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations, and we expect to 
present a resolution in New York during the Assembly’s 
seventy-second session. We believe that strengthening 
our  common  care  for  bees  and  other  pollinators  is 
needed  to  ensure  food  security,  biodiversity  and 
sustainable development.
Let me conclude by saying that it was a tremendous 
privilege to work with the outgoing Secretary-General. 
I would like to pay tribute to him and to thank him for 
his determined efforts to promote the United Nations, 
its values and its goals. We will remember him for his 
tireless endeavours to make the world a better place. Let 
us fervently hope that the next Secretary-General will 
do the same, and even better, for the sake of humanity 
and of our children and grandchildren.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Slovenia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Borut  Pahor,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Slovenia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Abdel Fattah Al Sisi, President of 
the Arab Republic of Egypt
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Arab Republic 
of Egypt.
Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi,  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi, 
President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Al Sisi  (spoke in Arabic):  Allow  me  at 
the  outset  to  congratulate  President  Peter  Thomson 
on  having  assumed  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session  and  to  wish 
him  every  success.  I  would  also  like  to  express  my 
gratitude  to  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its previous session, for his efforts 
and contributions.
The  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
comes  in  the  wake  of  our  launching  a  new  phase  in 
our  efforts  to  achieve  comprehensive  sustainable 
development,  in  its  environmental,  economic  and 
social dimensions, following our adoption of the 2030 
Sustainable Development Agenda and the Addis Ababa 
Action  Agenda  (resolution  69/313)  on  financing  for 
development the previous year.
The  aspirations  of  peoples,  particularly  in  the 
developing  world,  to  a  decent  standard  of  living  and 
ongoing  progress  are  without  a  doubt  our  primary 
responsibility as leaders, entrusted to us by our peoples, 
in  line  with  the  principles  of  humanity  that  guide  us 
all.  However,  the  challenges  that  face  developing 
countries, coupled with their limited capacities, prevent 
the full realization of the Goals set out in the Agenda. 
Developing  countries  are  not  afforded  sufficient 
opportunity  to  achieve  sustainable  development;  they 
require  a  conducive  international  environment  that 
provides them with a larger share of international trade, 
financing mechanisms and the transfer of technology, 
as well as investment flows and debt settlement. They 
must also have a national environment that is conducive 
to development.
Egypt  calls  for  support  for  the  role  of  the  State 
in  order  to  ensure  a  balance  between  the  different 
dimensions of sustainable development, particularly in 
relation to the effectiveness of social security networks 
and  advancing  national  ownership  of  development. 
Egypt  also  stresses  the  importance  of  harnessing 
the  global  monetary  system  to  establish  a  fair  global 
economic  system  that  provides  equal  opportunities 
for  development  and  contributes  to  minimizing  the 
gap between developed and developing countries. The 
United  Nations  is  the  ideal  platform  to  address  this 
issue. Accordingly, Egypt was among the first 22 States 
to present a voluntary review of its development plans 
last July.
Last  year  we  reached  an  agreement  based  on  the 
principles of the United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change. As Coordinator of the Committee 
of African Heads of State and Government on Climate 
Change, I reaffirm Africa’s commitment to confronting 
climate change, within the limits of its capabilities, and 
its  aspiration  to  put  into  practice  the  implementation 
10/18 
16-29302
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.9
mechanisms  of  the  agreement  on  the  transfer  of 
technology  and  sustainable  financing.  Egypt  has 
established a track for the Renewable Energy Initiative 
and presented it in the context of its leadership of the 
Committee of African Heads of State and Government 
on Climate Change, in implementation of the relevant 
African Union resolutions.
Egypt  wishes  to  highlight  the  importance  of  this 
initiative  in  providing  support  to  Africa.  Efforts  to 
address  climate  change  must  take  into  consideration 
equity  and  the  right  to  development,  as  well  as 
adherence to the principles of international law, the most 
important of which is refraining from harm; enhancing 
cooperation; and the participation of different countries 
in prospective projects, in accordance with the rules that 
govern international financial institutions, particularly 
the World Bank.
The world has become a global village as a result of 
the positive impact of the communications technology 
revolution,  as  well  as  unimpeded  capital  flows, 
investments and global trade. However, we continue to 
see another facet of globalization, one that has led to a 
number of social and economic challenges. 
Globalization  has  been  linked  to  an  increase  in 
poverty,  the  expansion  of  the  inequality  gap  and  the 
undermining  of  the  social  contract.  These  factors 
combined  have  exerted  pressure  on  the  institutional 
cohesion  of  affected  countries.  These  challenges  and 
pressures  constitute  the  greatest  incentive  for  the 
international community to work diligently to provide 
State institutions in all countries with the best possible 
means of undertaking their responsibilities and meeting 
the needs and aspirations of their peoples. 
Amid the challenges facing the international order, 
the  Egyptian  people  have  succeeded  in  enforcing 
their will to achieve stability, to protect the State and 
its  institutions  and  to  safeguard  their  society  from 
fragmentation and chaos. The Egyptian people approved 
a new Constitution that enshrines the rights and freedoms 
outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
establishes  equality  regardless  of  citizenship  and 
consolidates  protection  of  vulnerable  groups,  paving 
the way for women to occupy an unprecedented number 
of seats in the House of Representatives and expanding 
its youth representation. The House of Representatives 
is now actively exercising its legislative authority and 
oversight responsibilities over the executive authorities.
in 
On  the  economic  front,  Egypt  is  steadily  moving 
forward 
implementing  an  ambitious  plan  for 
economic  reform  that  takes  into  consideration  social 
dimensions and the requisites of a decent livelihood for 
the Egyptian people. Egypt is also implementing major 
national  projects  with  an  aim  of  expanding  its  road 
network  and  renewable  energy  production,  as  well  as 
increasing agricultural land.
While  the  Middle  East  continues  to  suffer  from 
bloody  conflicts,  Egypt  has  managed  to  preserve  its 
stability in a highly unstable region, thanks to the solidity 
of  its  institutions  and  its  people’s  awareness  of  their 
great  cultural  heritage.  The  international  community 
must acknowledge and support that fact, to the benefit 
of the region and the whole world, so that Egypt may 
continue to act as an anchor of stability in the Middle 
East, sparing no efforts in carrying out its natural role 
by  working  with  regional  and  international  parties  to 
restore security and stability in the Middle East.
At the forefront of the bloody conflicts plaguing the 
region, the agonizing situation in Syria has now reached 
its  sixth  year,  resulting  in  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
deaths  and  millions  more  internally  displaced  people 
and  refugees,  both  within  their  homeland  and  in 
neighbouring  countries.  Among  them  are  500,000 
Syrians  whom  Egypt  has  welcomed  as  brothers  and 
sisters, providing them with health care, education and 
housing. The bloodletting in Syria and the absence of 
any  political  prospects  on  the  horizon  are  no  longer 
acceptable.
What  is  necessary  is  clear  —  an  immediate  and 
comprehensive halt to all hostilities throughout Syria, 
thereby paving the way for a political solution that ends 
the  bloodshed  and  preserves  the  territorial  integrity 
and security of Syria and its State institutions, as well 
as  realizing  the  aspirations  of  Syrians  and  putting  an 
end to the chaos that has served only to facilitate the 
proliferation of terrorism. In that regard, we welcome 
the latest agreement on cessation of hostilities, which 
was  reached  as  a  result  of  commendable  efforts  by 
Russia  and  the  United  States.  We  hope  for  swift  and 
serious  international  action  to  resume  negotiations  as 
soon  as  possible,  in  order  to  reach  a  comprehensive 
settlement to the crisis.
Within  the  same  context  of  our  troubled  region, 
the  Arab-Israeli  conflict  continues  to  be  the  core  of 
regional  instability  in  the  Middle  East,  necessitating 
joint  efforts  by  the  countries  of  the  region  and 
16-29302
11/18
A/71/PV.9 
20/09/2016
the  international  community  to  reach  a  final  and 
comprehensive solution to the conflict. Egypt continues 
to pursue its best efforts to achieve peace in the region 
and end the Israeli occupation through negotiations and 
progress in the peace process in order to reach a final 
settlement as well as sustainable and just peace, on the 
basis  of  a  two-State  solution.  We  therefore  welcome 
current efforts based on a genuine desire to improve the 
situation  in  Palestinian  territories,  as  the  Palestinian 
people  continue  to  suffer  from  a  state  of  affairs  that 
must be rectified. There should be a focus on ending the 
occupation  and  restoring  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people  through  a  peace  agreement  consistent  with 
resolutions  of  international  legitimacy  —  one  that 
guarantees  Palestinians’  right  to  their  own  State  and 
achieves security for Israel by normalizing relations in 
the region.
Allow  me 
Egypt  reiterates  that  a  hand  for  peace  continues 
to  be  extended  in  the  form  of  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative. Egypt also stresses the need to work to take 
constructive  steps  to  end  Israeli  settlement-building 
and  to  initiate  negotiations  for  a  lasting  resolution, 
while simultaneously halting all acts that bring harm to 
the Arab heritage in Jerusalem. 
to  deviate 
from  my  written 
statement  —  here  at  this  forum,  which  represents  the 
voice of the world — to address and appeal to Israeli 
leaders and the Israeli people to consider the need to find 
a solution to this question. We have a real opportunity 
to begin a new chapter in the history of our region and 
to  move  towards  peace.  Egypt’s  inspiring  and  unique 
experience  can  in  fact  be  replicated  by  solving  the 
Palestinian  problem  and  establishing  a  Palestinian 
State  alongside  the  Israeli  State,  while  preserving 
peace,  security  and  prosperity  for  both  Israelis  and 
Palestinians.
Libya  is  currently  at  a  dire  juncture  and  in  deep 
political  crisis,  which  has  direct  implications  for 
Egyptian  national  security.  Despite 
the  progress 
achieved  last  year  through  the  signing  at  Skhirat 
of  the  Libyan  Political  Agreement,  there  have  been 
difficulties in its implementation. Egypt is playing an 
active role in bringing the Libyan parties together and 
supporting the implementation of the Agreement as a 
means  of  regaining  the  unity  of  the  Libyan  State  and 
its authority over its territory and allowing it to operate 
through its legitimate institutions, as represented by the 
Presidential Council, the National Unity Government, 
the House of Representatives and the national army. 
Egypt  is  also  hosting  meetings  of  our  Libyan 
brothers to facilitate the implementation of the Skhirat 
Agreement, as well as the establishment of a national 
unity  Government  that  represent  all  Libyans  and  its 
ratification by the House of Representatives, so that the 
country  can  focus  on  its  reconstruction.  That  in  turn 
would  allow  the  Libyan  army  to  focus  on  combating 
terrorism. In that regard, it is necessary to lift the arms 
embargo  imposed  on  the  army.  There  is  no  place  for 
terrorism and militias in Libya. The time has come to 
restore the institutions of the Libyan State.
In Yemen, Egypt is exerting every effort to support 
Yemeni territorial integrity and security and the return 
of  the  legitimate  Government.  We  support  the  efforts 
of the United Nations Special Envoy for Yemen, Ismail 
Ould Cheikh, and his plan to resolve the crisis, which 
has been approved by the legitimate Government. We 
stress the importance of resuming negotiations and for 
all parties to declare their commitment to the Special 
Envoy’s  plan  to  reach  a  comprehensive  settlement 
in  Yemen 
in  accordance  with  Security  Council 
resolutions, in particular resolution 2216 (2015). Egypt 
will  continue  to  support  efforts  towards  a  solution 
and to provide humanitarian assistance to our Yemeni 
brothers and sisters, in addition to our fundamental role 
in securing maritime navigation in Bab Al-Mandab and 
the Red Sea.
The majority of these Arab crises are a reflection 
of a global state of conflict, and I must reiterate Egypt’s 
rejection of any foreign interference in Arab affairs. I 
would like to affirm our commitment to the principle 
of good neighbourliness and to stress Egypt’s solidarity 
with Arab States in facing foreign interventions, in the 
light of the link between Arab security, including the 
security of the Arab Gulf.
By 
the 
same 
shoulders 
token,  Egypt 
its 
responsibility  towards  the  security  and  stability  of 
Africa. Egypt currently chairs the Peace and Security 
Council of the African Union. In that capacity, Egypt 
is  focusing  on  enhancing  cooperation  between  the 
African  Union  and  the  United  Nations  in  terms  of 
growing  transnational  threats,  including  terrorism 
and organized crime. We aim to bring about a shift in 
addressing  conflicts,  on  the  basis  of  the  principle  of 
national leadership and ownership, to ensure the success 
of  peacebuilding  efforts.  Through  its  memberships  in 
both  the  African  Union  Peace  and  Security  Council 
and  the  United  Nations  Security  Council,  Egypt  has 
been  keen  to  enhance  coordination  between  the  two 
12/18 
16-29302
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.9
bodies  —  something  Egypt  placed  at  the  forefront  of 
its  priorities  during  its  chairmanship  of  the  Council.
Egypt  has  sought  to  support  the  Peace  and  Security 
Architecture in Africa, in particular by way of efforts 
to  operationalize  the  African  Standby  Force.  Egypt 
has  also  increased  its  participation  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping missions in the region, having regained 
its place as one of the ten largest contributors.
Egypt  calls  for  the  adoption  of  a  comprehensive 
counter-terrorism strategy through an approach that is 
not limited to security aspects but includes ideological 
considerations  as  well.  Egypt  will  host  the  counter-
terrorism centre for the Community of Sahelo-Saharan 
States.
Egypt would also like to highlight the importance 
of assessing any rising sources of tension, taking into 
consideration  the  phenomena  of  desertification  and 
water scarcity, and the developmental needs related to 
managing transnational boundaries in connection with 
water resources.
to  provide 
in  order 
With regard to situations in the African continent, 
the  Somali 
Egypt  stresses 
the  need 
to  conclude 
Government  with  support 
elections.  In  Burundi,  Egypt  seeks  to  find  solutions 
to the political crisis through the African Union Peace 
and Security Council and through the United Nations 
Security Council. We are working to address the crisis 
in the appropriate manner so as to defuse the political 
situation  and  allow  all  the  Burundian  parties  to 
intensify peaceful political dialogue, thereby averting 
the use of violence.
Egypt  has  sought  to  participate  in  the  regional 
framework  to  address  the  crisis  in  South  Sudan  ever 
since  its  inception,  engaging  with  the  parties  to  the 
conflict, as well as regional and international parties, to 
achieve peace. Through its current chairmanship of the 
African Peace and Security Council, Egypt is seeking 
to increase the role of the Council in that regard, as well 
as to enhance cooperation with the joint monitoring and 
evaluation  mechanism.  Egypt  calls  for  all  parties  to 
work  within  the  Transitional  Government  of  National 
Unity of South Sudan, with the aim of restoring peace 
to Juba. 
Regarding  the  Republic  of  the  Sudan.  Egypt 
commends  the  efforts  carried  out  by  the  Sudanese 
Government, which have resulted in the signing of the 
road  map  proposed  by  the  African  Union  High-level 
Implementation Panel last April.
The  phenomenon  of  terrorism  and  the  animus 
towards  the  right  to  life  it  represents  have  become 
an  urgent  threat  to  international  peace  and  security. 
Terrorism constitutes a threat to the entity of the State 
in favour of extremist ideologies that utilize religion as 
a veil from behind which to conduct monstrous acts and 
menace  the  destinies  of  peoples.  Fighting  it  requires 
intensive regional and international cooperation. Egypt 
has always stressed that the effort to defeat terrorism 
will  never  achieve  its  end  unless  we  address  the  root 
causes  of  the  phenomenon,  confront  terrorist  groups 
with  decisiveness  and  refute  the  extremist  ideologies 
that give birth to terrorism and its proponents.
in 
information 
I call upon the international community to take all 
possible measures to prevent terrorism from exploiting 
advances 
technology,  which  have 
contributed  to  endowing  the  phenomena  of  terrorism 
and 
ideological  extremism  with  dangerous  new 
dimensions  that  have  given  them  a  global  reach.  It  is 
essential  to  end  the  broadcasting  of  channels  and  the 
hosting of websites that incite violence and extremism.
The world is at a crossroads. Threats to international 
peace and security are no longer conventional but have 
rather evolved to constitute a threat to the very tenets 
of human civilization. In the same vein, the challenges 
that we face — be they humanitarian, environmental, 
economic,  developmental  or  health-related  —  are 
no  longer  confined  by  international  borders  but  have 
become global. In that regard, I would like to point out 
that the first preambular paragraph to the Constitution 
of UNESCO states that “since wars begin in the minds 
of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of 
peace must be constructed”.
I  assert  before  the  Assembly  that  terrorism  is  the 
cancer of our age, spreading with it the call for extremism 
and violence in the minds of people. Accordingly, it is 
our duty to instil in those very same minds the principles 
of tolerance and coexistence. If culture is the reflection 
of  the  principles  by  which  humankind  lives,  then  we 
must employ culture, technology and knowledge for the 
benefit of the development of peace. 
The  United  Nations  has  to  give  greater  attention 
to addressing the cultural aspects of development and 
peacemaking and to eliminating destructive ideologies, 
including  through  access  to  knowledge,  transfer  of 
technology and confronting extremist ideologies. That 
must be undertaken in partnership with UNESCO, an 
organization whose role has grown vastly in importance 
16-29302
13/18
A/71/PV.9 
20/09/2016
in today’s world. Egypt recognizes the ever-increasing 
importance  of  that  role  and  the  importance  of  taking 
the utmost advantage of the organization with a view to 
achieving a better, safer and more understanding world 
in which there is room for all.
It  high 
to  reclaim 
time  for  humankind 
the 
essence of its humanity, while sharing knowledge and 
technology without monopolizing them and uniting in 
the  face  of  challenges.  Just  as  it  has  always  been  an 
eternal accumulation of civilizations, Egypt reaffirms 
before  the  General  Assembly  today  its  commitment 
to  continuing  to  contribute  to  coexistence  within  the 
international family and striving for a more secure and 
prosperous world for our future generations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi,  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Muhammadu Buhari, President of 
the Federal Republic of Nigeria
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Federal Republic 
of Nigeria.
Mr. Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Muhammadu  Buhari, 
President of the of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Buhari: On behalf of the people and the 
Government  of  Nigeria,  Sir,  let  me  congratulate  the 
President on his well-deserved election as the President 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-first session. I 
assure him of Nigeria’s support in steering the affairs 
of  the  General  Assembly  over  the  next  12  months.  I 
also  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  appreciation 
to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  for  the 
achievements recorded during his tenure.
Last  year,  I  presented  my  first  address  to  the 
General  Assembly  after  my  assumption  of  office  as 
President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (see A/70/
PV.15). Indeed, it was a remarkable year, which not only 
celebrated  the  gains  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  but  also  witnessed  the  adoption  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. These landmark 
achievements  by  the  global  community  will  without 
any  doubt  build  a  more  prosperous,  all-inclusive 
world.  We  must  work  together  to  liberate  humankind 
from poverty, save our planet from the devastation of 
climate change and rid the world of terrorism for a more 
peaceful and prosperous future.
We  must  remain  committed  to  taking  bold  steps 
to transform our world. The Sustainable Development 
Goals underscore the imperative for our collective will 
towards finding enduring and sustainable solutions to 
addressing  global  disparities.  It  is  in  the  light  of  our 
appreciation of the enormity of the task before us that I 
welcome the theme of the Assembly: “The Sustainable 
Development  Goals:  a  universal  push  to  transform 
our world”.
Nigeria,  as  a  developing  country,  has  been 
adversely  affected  by  the  global  economic  downturn. 
We are, however, undeterred and have embarked upon 
a wide range of reforms in our efforts to diversify our 
economy  and  shift  emphasis  to  mining,  agriculture, 
industrialization,  infrastructure  development  and  the 
creation of an enabling environment for foreign direct 
investment. Our strategic objective is to stimulate the 
economy,  restore  growth  and  accelerate  recovery.  In 
doing that, we are taking measures to reduce the cost of 
governance and increase expenditure on infrastructure 
and ensure environmental best practices.
the 
achievement  of 
Fighting  corruption  remains  a  cardinal  pillar  of 
our  Administration.  Corruption  freezes  development, 
thereby  undermining 
the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  I  am  pleased  that 
our efforts in fighting corruption are yielding positive 
results,  including  significant  recoveries  of  stolen 
assets.  The  recovered  funds  are  being  channelled 
towards the development of critical infrastructure and 
the  implementation  of  social  inclusion  programmes 
for our people. We are also strengthening the capacity 
of  Government  entities  to  institutionalize  reforms  to 
ensure transparency and good governance.
The  Anti-Corruption  Summit  held  in  London  in 
May this year served as further assurance of the global 
community’s commitment to fight corruption through 
the proposed practical steps to address the challenges, 
including actions to hold perpetrators to justice within 
14/18 
16-29302
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.9
the  law.  Nigeria  supports  the  development  of  an 
international legal framework to enforce anti-corruption 
measures  and 
international 
institutions to effectively deal with corrupt practices.
strengthen  existing 
Nigeria  calls  on  Member  States  that  are  yet  to 
sign  up  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Corruption to do so. Nigeria will continue to advocate 
for  the  facilitation  of  the  recovery  of  illicit  financial 
assets. Indeed, the speedy and unconditional return of 
stolen public assets should be the focus of the follow-up 
anti-corruption conference, to be hosted by the United 
States and United Kingdom next year in Washington, 
D.C.
is  an 
for 
imperative 
Furthermore,  Nigeria  remains  committed  to  the 
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, a global 
coalition that promotes transparency and accountability 
in  the  management  of  revenues  from  the  oil,  gas  and 
solid minerals sectors. We voluntarily signed up to the 
Initiative  because  we  are  convinced  that  transparent 
governance 
resource-rich 
developing  countries  like  ours.  Through  the  work 
that  our  national  chapter  of  the  Extractive  Industries 
Transparency  Initiative  has  done  over  the  years,  it  is 
clear that our faith is not misplaced. The Initiative has 
been empowering citizens with the critical information 
they  can  use  to  hold  Government  and  other  players 
in  the  extractive  industries  to  account,  and  make 
recommendations that drive reforms in those strategic 
sectors of our national life.
The  world  took  a  giant  step  in  Paris  towards 
addressing the challenges of climate change. Nigeria is 
proud  to  have  been  part  of  the  process  leading  to  the 
adoption  of  the  Paris  Agreement  in  December  2015 
at  the  twenty-first  meeting  of  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change. That meeting marked a watershed 
in  the  global  community’s  commitment  to  address 
climate change, and we will continue in our determined 
efforts  to  reduce  greenhouse-gas  emissions.  At  the 
centre of Nigeria’s climate action is our determination 
to implement the strategies in our intended nationally 
determined  contributions,  which  will  foster  a  low-
carbon  economy  and  sustainable  growth  in  building 
a  climate-resilient  society.  We  are  creating  public 
awareness  through  the  integrated  involvement  of  the 
private  sector  and  civil  society  and  by  strengthening 
national institutions and mechanisms.
The  negative  consequences  of  climate  change 
have  manifested  themselves  in  the  drying  up  of  our 
Lake  Chad.  The  means  of  livelihood  of  an  estimated 
30 million inhabitants of the Lake Chad Basin — spread 
across Cameroon, Chad, the Niger and Nigeria — are 
being  severely  threatened.  The  cost  of  replenishing 
the lake has been put at $14 billion, under a five-year 
plan that should be accorded global attention. Nigeria 
also supports the African Union initiative on the Great 
Green Wall to halt desertification.
In furtherance of our commitment to environmental 
sustainability,  Nigeria  has  launched  the  Clean  Up 
Ogoniland  initiaitve  in  Nigeria’s  Niger  Delta,  based 
on  the  2011  environmental  assessment  of  the  area 
by 
the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme. 
Multinational  oil  companies  operating  in  the  area 
will  be  required  to  live  up  to  their  corporate  social 
responsibilities  and  contribute  to  the  cleaning-up  of 
the environment, degraded as a result of their activities 
and  operations.  We  call  on  development  partners 
and  multinationals  to  support  our  efforts  through  the 
Ogoniland Restoration Fund.
The twenty-first century has thus far been marked 
by the rising insecurity unleashed by global terrorism 
and violent extremism, which constitute a real threat to 
the international community. With the global increase 
in the spate of terrorist attacks, there is now, more than 
ever,  international  consensus  and  greater  willingness 
to collaborate in combating the threat. Indeed, we are 
meeting  at  the  time  when  our  hosts,  the  American 
people, have just marked the fifteenth anniversary of the 
tragic and dastardly terrorist attacks on their soil. We 
in Nigeria, having been victims of terrorism ourselves, 
fully  understand  the  impact  of  9/11  on  the  American 
psyche  and  the  families  of  the  thousands  of  innocent 
victims  whose  lives  were  lost  that  day.  I  therefore 
reiterate  the  sympathies  of  the  Nigerian  Government 
and the Nigerian people to the American people, along 
with  prayers  for  the  families  of  the  victims  that  they 
may heal and find closure soon.
in  conformity  with 
We hope that justice will be done for the families 
of  victims  of  9/11,  as  indeed  to  the  victims  of  terror 
everywhere, 
the  norms  of 
international  justice.  As  we  seek  justice  for  terrorism 
victims,  the  international  community  should  avoid 
reacting in the heat of the deep emotions of the moment 
by  taking  unilateral  measures,  legal  or  otherwise, 
that will have a negative and disruptive impact on the 
international  community’s  collective  efforts  to  fight 
16-29302
15/18
A/71/PV.9 
20/09/2016
terrorism. We should not be distracted in our collective 
resolve to beat back terrorism in all its forms. 
to enable the voluntary return of the displaced persons 
to their places of abode in safety and dignity.
As  we  confront  terrorism,  we  must  also  commit 
to  stopping  the  proliferation  of  small  arms  and  light 
weapons, which nurtures its spread. To that end, Nigeria 
urges Member States that are yet to sign and ratify the 
Arms Trade Treaty to do so without further delay.
Nigeria has made remarkable progress in its resolve 
to  defeat  Boko  Haram,  whose  capacity  to  launch 
orchestrated attacks as a formed group has been severely 
degraded. In the past few months, their operations have 
been  limited  to  sporadic  use  of  improvised  explosive 
devices against soft targets.
Nigeria has continued to combat terrorism on the 
basis  of  the  established  rules  of  engagement  and  in 
conformity  with  international  best  practices.  I  take 
this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  Nigeria’s  commitment  to 
human  rights  norms  and  international  humanitarian 
law  in  our  efforts  to  counter  terrorism  and  violent 
extremism.  I  also  wish  to  restate  the  assurance  that 
the Federal Government of Nigeria is employing all its 
judicial tools to investigate and address reported cases 
of human rights violations.
I commend the contributions of our neighbours — the 
Republic  of  Benin,  the  Republic  of  Cameroon,  the 
Republic of Chad and the Republic of the Niger — whose 
combined  efforts  under  the  Multinational  Joint  Task 
Force accomplished the present return of normalcy in 
areas  hitherto  occupied  by  Boko  Haram.  May  I  also 
thank  our  international  partners  —  including  France, 
the  United  States  of  America,  the  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  Germany,  the 
United  Nations,  the  Economic  Community  of  West 
African  States  and  the  African  Union  —  and  many 
other  multilateral  and  bilateral  partners  for  their 
invaluable support. Our experience today is proof that, 
with determined international collaboration, terrorism 
can be defeated.
The flow of refugees and migrants worldwide has 
reached  alarming  proportions.  That  is  why  Nigeria 
supports  the  ceasefire  agreement  brokered  by  the 
United States and Russia to end the atrocious tragedy 
of the Syrian civil war. Of particular concern to us in 
Nigeria  is  the  plight  of  internally  displaced  persons 
resulting from Boko Haram’s terrorism. We have taken 
concrete steps to address their humanitarian needs and 
to ensure that the necessary conditions are established 
At  the  same  time,  the  Palestinian  issue,  despite 
years  and  years  of  international  efforts,  is  no  nearer 
to  being  resolved.  Nigeria,  in  company  with  States 
members  of  the  African  Union,  firmly  supports  the 
two-State solution, with Palestinian rights to statehood 
in  conformity  with  numerous  Security  Council 
resolutions, beginning with resolution 242 (1967).
Let me take this opportunity to once again thank all 
United Nations and other aid agencies and development 
partners  currently  deployed  in  north-east  Nigeria.  I 
reaffirm  Nigeria’s  commitment  to  collective  action 
towards an effective global response to address the root 
causes of refugee flows worldwide.
We acknowledge the importance of youth in national 
development and remain committed to harnessing the 
potential of the increasing youth bulge. We must take 
advantage of the numbers and creative energy of young 
people, who are in the majority in Nigeria and in most 
other  Member  States.  Therefore,  at  the  international 
level,  we  call  for  the  establishment  of  a  specialized 
United  Nations  agency  for  youth  development  to 
achieve that strategic objective.
Nuclear  security  remains  central  to  our  quest  for 
durable peace and security. That was why I participated 
in the fifth Nuclear Security Summit, hosted by President 
Barak Obama in Washington in March 2016. Nigeria and 
the  other  peace-loving  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  must  continue  to  uphold  the  fundamental 
principles  of  nuclear  disarmament,  non-proliferation 
and the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
The United Nations should now redouble the long-
protracted effort for its reform to enable it to effectively 
address the challenges of our times. Nigeria therefore 
reiterates its call for the reform of the Security Council, 
in particular to reflect equitable and fair representation 
and greater transparency, legitimacy and inclusiveness 
in  its  decision-making.  Africa  should  be  adequately 
represented on the Security Council in the permanent- 
member category. In that regard, Nigeria stands ready 
to serve Africa and the world on a reformed Security 
Council to advance international peace and security.
Let me conclude by reaffirming Nigeria’s abiding 
faith  in  the  United  Nations  and  in  its  capacity  to 
support Member States to deliver on the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development.
16/18 
16-29302
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.9
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, President 
of the Republic of Uganda
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Uganda.
Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of  the 
Republic of Uganda, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, 
President of the Republic of Uganda, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Museveni: I would like to congratulate 
the President on his election as President of the General 
Assembly at its seventy-first session. 
The  theme  for  this  session  is  “The  Sustainable 
Development Goals: a universal push to transform our 
world”. This is a good topic. It adds another nail in the 
coffin  of  the  old  parasitic  arrangement  where  only  a 
small  portion  of  humankind  —  those  living  in  the 
United  States  of  America,  Canada,  Western  Europe, 
Australia and New Zealand — lived in affluence while 
the rest of the world lived in abject poverty.
The  reasoning  then  was  that  one  could  not  be 
affluent without doing so at the expense of somebody 
else.  This  logic  has  now  been  challenged.  Between 
1981 and 2010, 380 million and 270 million people in 
China  and  India,  respectively,  came  out  of  poverty. 
Even in Africa, a continent with a lot of accumulated 
disadvantages,  414  million  people  have  come  out  of 
poverty.  In  Uganda’s  case,  in  2004  56  per  cent  of  its 
people  were  living  in  poverty.  Today  that  figure  is 
19 per cent. It is hoped that by 2017, it will be reduced 
to 10 per cent.
Is  the  world  not  a  better  place  with  the  spread 
of  affluence?  Have  not  the  old  affluent  societies  and 
the  new  ones  both  benefited?  The  United  States  is 
today  exporting  goods  and  services  to  China  worth 
$120 billion per year. The European Union is exporting 
goods and services to China worth $356 billion. Has not 
the spread of affluence benefited more people?
The  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs) 
understood  this  very  well.  There  are  17  of  them,  and 
they are: to end poverty in all its forms everywhere, to 
end hunger, to ensure healthy lives, to ensure inclusive 
and equitable quality education and to promote lifelong 
learning  opportunities  for  all,  to  achieve  gender 
equality and so forth. I do not have to read out all 17 
SDGs because representatives know them.
All this is a different way of providing a prescription 
for the problems of underdevelopment. We are happy at 
last. The global agenda includes most of the ingredients 
necessary  for  growth  and 
transformation  of 
societies, as happened in the past for those societies that 
pioneered the Industrial Revolution. In particular, the 
inclusion of energy on the list of SDGs is a departure 
from past global agendas.
the 
These  SDGs  fluctuate  with  many  of  our  own 
10  strategic  bottlenecks.  These  are 
ideological 
disorientation;  a  weak  State,  especially  the  army, 
which  needed  restructuring;  the  suppression  of  the 
private  sector; 
the  underdevelopment  of  human 
resources,  that  is,  a  lack  of  education  and  health; 
the  underdevelopment  of  infrastructure,  that  is,  the 
railways,  roads,  electricity, 
telephones  and  piped 
water and so forth; a small internal market; the lack of 
industrialization; the underdevelopment of the services 
sector;  the  underdevelopment  of  agriculture  and  the 
attack on democracy.
As  the  Assembly  can  see,  there  are  two  crucial 
bottlenecks  that  are  missing  in  the  SDGs.  These  are 
ideological  disorientation,  which  for  us  is  bottleneck 
number one, and market integration, which is bottleneck 
number  six.  One  can  of  course  say  that  the  idea  of 
ideological disorientation is subsumed in SDG 16 — that 
of peace, justice and strong institutions. Nevertheless, 
there  is  no  harm  in  singling  out  and  highlighting 
this  problem  of  the  pseudo-ideology  that  exploits  the 
identities  of  people  —  of  religion,  tribe,  race,  gender 
and so forth — and eclipses the interests of the people, 
such as balanced trade. That equal relationship between 
the  producer  of  a  good  and  the  producer  of  a  service 
and the buyer of the same, both in ancient and modern 
times, is the greatest stimulus for global prosperity.
This,  however,  is  many  times  eclipsed  by  the 
shallow promotion of the chauvinism of religion, tribe, 
race  or  gender,  even  when  one’s  religion  mates,  tribe 
16-29302
17/18
A/71/PV.9 
20/09/2016
mates  and  race  mates  are  doing  nothing  or  little  for 
one’s prosperity. Yet the recent growth through trade of 
China, India and so forth in their interaction with the 
United States of America, the European Union, Africa 
and so forth shows the power of the stimulus. Let the 
global  body  therefore  understand  and  blacklist  the 
pseudo-ideology  of  the  sectarianism  and  chauvinism 
of  groups.  All  the  past  mistakes  and  the  present  ones 
are linked to this problem. Imperialism, the slave trade, 
colonialism,  neocolonialism,  the  ongoing  sectarian 
conflicts in many parts of the world — all, in one way 
or another, spring from this pseudo-ideology. The fair 
and authentic ideology of being my brother’s keeper, as 
it says in the Book of Genesis — chapter 4, verse 9 — is 
the true antidote to this poison. Abandon all forms of 
chauvinism and the world will be safer for everybody. 
In my dialect we say, “The one who shoots arrows at 
others should expect arrows to come his way”.
Finally,  our  sixth  bottleneck  —  the  bottleneck  of 
fragmented  markets  in  Africa  and  possibly  in  other 
places  —  should  also  be  addressed.  It  has  eased  its 
trade  with  China,  with  India,  with  the  United  States, 
with  Russia,  with  Brazil  and  Indonesia,  because  they 
are markets of $1.3 billion, $1.2 billion, $150 million, 
$200  million  and  $200  million,  respectively,  because 
they  are  societies  under  one  political  authority  each.
We and the others that have fragmented markets must 
struggle to rectify this deficiency. 
Mr.  Zamora  Rivas  (El  Salvador),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 
In Africa, we are already moving forward. Hence, 
our East African Community, the Common Market for 
Eastern  and  Southern  Africa,  the  Southern  African 
Development  Community,  the  Economic  Community 
of  West  African  States  and,  ultimately,  the  common 
m+arket of the whole of Africa, as we agreed recently, 
in  Kigali.  These  markets  are  taking  us  in  the  right 
direction. Remember that when I buy what is produced 
by your factories, I am supporting your prosperity; and 
when you buy what I produce, you are supporting my 
prosperity.  Long  live  the  SDGs.    But,  please,  do  not 
forget to add the bottlenecks that we observed here.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Uganda for the statement 
he has just made. 
Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of  the 
Republic of Uganda, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.
18/18 
16-29302
