United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
23rd plenary meeting
Monday, 3 October 2016, 10.30 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.23
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.35 a.m.
Agenda item 138
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the 
expenses of the United Nations
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/71/414)
The President: If there is no proposal under rule 66 
of the rules of procedure, may I take it that the General 
Assembly decides not to discuss the report of the Fifth 
Committee that is before the Assembly today?
It was so decided.
The  President:  Before  we  begin  to  take  action 
on the recommendation contained in the report of the 
Fifth  Committee  (A/71/414),  I  should  like  to  advise 
representatives  that  we  are  going  to  proceed  to  take 
a  decision  in  the  same  manner  as  was  done  in  the 
Fifth Committee.
The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Fifth  Committee  in 
paragraph 6 of its report. The Fifth Committee adopted 
the  draft  resolution,  entitled  “Scale  of  assessments 
for  the  apportionment  of  the  expenses  of  the  United 
Nations”, without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly 
wishes to do the same?
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda item 138.
Election of the Chairs of the Main Committees
the  President, 
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  for 
the  seventy-first  session, 
the  21 
Vice-Presidents  and  the  Chairpersons  of  the  First 
Committee,  the  Special  Political  and  Decolonization 
Committee and the Second, Third and Sixth Committees 
were elected on 13 June. There remained the election of 
the Chairperson of the Fifth Committee, to take place 
at a later date.
I  should  now  like  to  inform  members  that  Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Inga  Rhonda  King  of  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines  was  elected  Chairperson  of  the 
Fifth  Committee  on  29  September  and  is  accordingly 
a  member  of  the  General  Committee  for  the  seventy-
first session. I congratulate the Chairperson of the Fifth 
Committee on her election.
The  Chairpersons  of  the  six  Main  Committees 
and  the  21  Vice-Presidents  having  been  elected,  the 
General  Committee  of  the  General  Assembly  for  the 
seventy-first session has thus been fully constituted in 
accordance with rule 38 of the rules of procedure.
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 71/2).
The meeting rose at 10.40 a.m.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29829 (E)
*1629829*
