United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
25th plenary meeting
Thursday, 6 October 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.25
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 7 (continued)
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items
Documentation for the election of the members 
of the International Law Commission: review of 
the list of candidates
The President: I would like to consult the General 
Assembly  on  a  matter  concerning  sub-item  (b)  of 
agenda  item  114  on  the  election  of  the  members  of 
the  International  Law  Commission,  which  has  been 
scheduled to take place on Thursday, 3 November.
On  that  day,  the  Assembly  will  proceed  to  the 
election  of  34  members  of  the  Commission,  whose 
terms of office are to commence on 1 January 2017. It 
should be recalled that, in accordance with the statute 
of  the  International  Law  Commission,  the  Secretary-
General communicated to the Governments of Member 
States,  in  document  A/71/90,  the  list  of  candidates 
submitted within the required time for the submission 
of nominations — that is, by 1 June 2016. In documents 
A/71/90/Add.1 to A/71/90/Add.4, the Secretary-General 
informed  the  Assembly  of  developments  concerning 
candidates, including new candidates and withdrawals, 
since the issuance of document A/71/90. The statements 
of  qualifications  of  the  candidates  are  contained  in 
A/71/83 and Add. 1.
In  these  circumstances,  it  is  necessary  for  the 
General Assembly to take a decision as to whether the 
new  candidatures  should  be  accepted  in  spite  of  the 
submission  of  their  names  subsequent  to  the  deadline 
and  whether  they  should  be  incorporated  into  a 
consolidated list of candidates.
It  has  been  the  practice  of  the  Assembly  to 
incorporate  such  late  submissions  into  a  consolidated 
list.  If  I  hear  no  objection,  may  I  take  it  that  it  is  the 
wish of the General Assembly to request the Secretary-
General to issue such a consolidated list of candidates?
It was so decided.
Agenda items 120 and 121
Implementation of the resolutions of the 
United Nations
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly
The President: The American writer Mark Twain 
once observed that “continuous improvement is better 
than delayed perfection”. It is a message of particular 
relevance  to  Member  States  in  our  ongoing  efforts  to 
revitalize the work of the General Assembly.
  Since  1991,  the  United  Nations  membership  has 
sought to enhance the role, authority, effectiveness and 
efficiency of the General Assembly through discussion 
under  the  agenda  item  “Revitalization  of  the  work  of 
the General Assembly”. It is critical, incremental work 
that  requires  a  deep  commitment  to  the  ideals  of  the 
United Nations and a dedication to working to improve 
the  Organization’s  ability  to  fulfil  its  mandate  under 
the Charter.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-31169 (E)
*1631169*
A/71/PV.25 
06/10/2016
At  its  sixty-ninth  and  seventieth  sessions,  the 
General  Assembly  adopted  two  resolutions  that  each 
made  significant  strides  in  improving  the  work  of 
the  Organization:  resolutions  69/321  and  70/305. 
Both  of  these  resolutions  were  shepherded  through 
by  Ambassador  Vladimir  Drobnjak  of  Croatia  and 
Ambassador  Wilfried  Emvula  of  Namibia.  I  would 
like to thank them for their hard work and leadership 
as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly 
that led to these outcomes.
The  inclusion  in  resolution  69/321  of  details  on 
the  process  to  select  and  appoint  the  next  Secretary-
General  have  transformed  and  significantly  enhanced 
the  legitimacy  of  that  process.  The  way  in  which  the 
process  was  conducted  has  vindicated  the  good  work 
done  by  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group.  I  would  like  to 
pay particular tribute in this regard to my predecessor, 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft.  Furthermore,  the  inclusion  in 
resolution 70/305 of an oath of office, a code of ethics 
and a series of other measures relating to the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  were  particularly  prescient 
developments. I am honoured to be the first President 
of  the  General  Assembly  to  begin  the  term  of  office 
by  undertaking  to  fulfil  the  commitments  embedded 
in  these  documents,  as  well  as  to  foster  a  General 
Assembly based on ethics, transparency, inclusiveness 
and effectiveness.
in 
the 
As  milestones 
revitalization  agenda, 
resolutions  69/321  and  70/305  have  already  impacted 
the  work  of  the  Assembly  in  significant  ways,  and 
I  would  like  to  touch  briefly  upon  some  of  these 
key developments.
The 
importance  of  close  cooperation  and 
coordination  between  the  Presidents  of  the  General 
Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and 
Social Council, as well as with the Secretary-General, 
was emphasized in resolution 70/305. This is an essential 
development  for  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of 
the  United  Nations,  particularly  as  it  prepares  for  the 
task of supporting the implementation of the ambitious 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. I am deeply 
committed  to  doing  my  part  in  implementing  these 
provisions.  To  strengthen  transparency  and  improve 
coherence  across  the  work  of  the  United  Nations 
system,  I  have  undertaken  to  inform  member  States 
about each of my monthly meetings with the Presidents 
of the Security Council and the Economic and Social 
Council, as well as with the Secretary-General, and the 
scope of the discussions held.
General Assembly thematic debates continue to be 
an important mechanism for member States to discuss 
issues  of  critical  importance  to  the  membership.  I 
have,  however,  heard  clearly  the  concerns  expressed 
by  many  delegations  at  the  proliferation  of  such 
debates — mandated or otherwise — over recent years. 
I  therefore  plan,  during  the  seventy-first  session,  to 
minimize  the  number  of  such  events  and  to  look  at 
creative ways to ensure that Member States and other 
stakeholders are able to consider the pressing issues of 
the day in the most effective and efficient way.
The  decision  to  move  the  timing  of  elections  for 
non-permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council 
to  around  six  months  prior  to  elected  members 
commencing their roles was implemented for the first 
time earlier this year. This is a practice that has already 
been commended by those recently elected members as 
a positive development that will help to facilitate their 
smooth assumption of responsibilities.
As regards working methods, I intend to continue 
my  close  cooperation  with  the  Chairs  of  the  Main 
Committees to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency 
of the work of those Committees, as well as to enhance 
synergy and coherence and reduce potential overlapping 
in the agendas of the General Assembly and its Main 
Committees, the Economic and Social Council and other 
related forums, particularly in the light of the adoption 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
In  this  regard,  I  acknowledge  that  significant  work 
was  undertaken  during  the  seventieth  session  on  the 
alignment  of  the  General  Assembly  agenda  with  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  This  was 
a process led ably by Ambassador María Emma Mejía 
Vélez  of  Colombia,  and  supported  by  the  Chairs  of 
the First and Second Committees and the President of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  I  look  forward  to 
discussing ways to build on these efforts with Member 
States over the coming session.
With  respect  to  the  General  Assembly  itself,  I 
will  be  encouraging  the  incoming  Chairs  of  the  Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  to  consider  ways  to  strengthen 
its integrity. In my view, this includes exploring ways 
to  preserve  decorum  and  the  special  place  of  the 
general  debate  on  the  calendar  of  world  leaders  and 
the  Organization,  and  to  further  improve  the  overall 
preparation  for  and  effectiveness  of  this  high-level 
2/14 
16-31169
06/10/2016 
A/71/PV.25
week. For example, the wisdom of burdening ourselves 
with four official high-level meetings in the course of 
the  general  debate  is  something  that  deserves  serious 
consideration. In addition, I would like the focus that 
was  placed  on  ethics  during  the  seventieth  session  to 
be extended to the overall decision-making processes, 
including in terms of the ethical dimension of elections 
for positions and roles at the United Nations.
In  the  matter  of  the  selection  and  appointment 
of  the  next  Secretary-General,  recent  developments 
have  already  received  significant  attention  and  will 
continue to be high on the agenda during the seventy-
first  session.  I  look  forward  over  the  coming  days 
to  bringing  the  appointment  process  to  an  orderly 
conclusion  and  to  facilitating  a  smooth  transition  and 
a  strong  start  for  the  next  Secretary-General.  This 
includes  promptly  bringing  Member  States  and  the 
Secretary-General-designate  together  to  enable  them 
to  engage  in  substantive  dialogues  on  issues  such  as 
the  appointment  of  senior  officials  or  the  reform  of 
the Secretariat. Throughout this process, I have tasked 
two  special  advisers  from  my  Office  with  engaging 
in  consultations  with  Member  States  and  interested 
groups.  They  will  be  advising  me  on  the  best  way 
forward. Following the finalization of the selection and 
appointment  process  for  the  next  Secretary-General, 
there will be many lessons to be learned and considered 
by the Ad Hoc Working Group.
Resolutions  69/321  and  70/305  provide  solid 
ground  for  future  deliberations 
the 
process,  including  ways  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  to  enhance  transparency  and 
accountability of the process.
to  enhance 
Finally,  efforts  to  strengthen  the  accountability, 
transparency  and  institutional  memory  of  the  Office 
of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  are  already 
enhancing the functioning of the Office of the President 
of  the  General  Assembly.  In  addition  to  the  oath  of 
office and the code of ethics, as part of my commitment 
to  transparency,  I  have  undertaken  to  ensure  that  all 
financial  support  to  the  Office  will  be  channelled 
through  the  United  Nations  Trust  Fund,  where  all 
sources of funds and expenditures will be subjected to 
public scrutiny. I also intend to ensure that at the end of 
the  seventy-first  session,  the  records  and  institutional 
memory  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly’s 
Office will be preserved by the United Nations record-
keeping  and  archiving  facilities,  and  that  a  handover 
summary of best practices and lessons learned will be 
made available to all Member States.
I am acutely aware of the importance of a smooth 
transition  between  General  Assembly  presidencies, 
which can be made difficult by calendar arrangements 
and  other  factors.  Among  other  issues,  we  therefore 
need to look carefully at the timing of the transition in 
order to enable the incoming President of the General 
Assembly  enough  time  in  office  to  ensure  that  the 
week  of  high-level  meetings  runs  as  efficiently  as 
possible.  I  look  forward  to  discussing,  in  due  course, 
ways  to  improve  continuity  and  transitions  further 
with the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization 
of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  would  also 
like  to  thank  Member  States  once  again,  as  well  as 
the  Secretariat  —  particularly  the  Department  for 
General Assembly and Conference Management — and 
the  United  Nations  specialized  agencies,  funds  and 
programmes  for  their  support  of  the  Office  of  the 
President of the General Assembly, including through 
secondments of staff.
Much  important  work  lies  ahead  for  all  of  us  in 
our  efforts  to  strengthen  and  revitalize  the  General 
Assembly  and  to  ensure  its  role  as  the  pre-eminent 
deliberative,  policymaking  and  representative  organ 
of the United Nations. The General Assembly’s central 
role  in  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development is paramount, and we need to 
ensure that we too are essentially fit for purpose. I am 
currently looking to appoint co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the 
General Assembly, in order to enable it to continue its 
important work during the seventy-first session. I look 
forward to the Assembly’s continued active contribution 
to the process in the work ahead.
I now call on the observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Van  Den  Akker  (European  Union):  I  have 
the honour to speak on behalf of the European Union 
and  its  member  States.  The  candidate  countries  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Serbia  and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization 
and Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align 
themselves  with 
my statement.
I  wish  to  thank  you,  Sir,  for  convening  today’s 
plenary meeting. We look forward to working with you 
in the negotiations on resolutions throughout the coming 
16-31169
3/14
A/71/PV.25 
06/10/2016
weeks and months. I would like to thank the President 
of the Assembly at its seventieth session, Mr. Mogens 
Lykketoft, for his oversight of and engagement in the 
General Assembly revitalization process. I would also 
like  to  extend  my  sincerest  gratitude  to  the  previous 
co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly, 
the Permanent Representatives of Croatia and Namibia, 
Mr.  Vladimir  Drobnjak  and  Mr.  Wilfried  Emvula, 
for  their  excellent  work.  We  wish  the  new  co-Chairs 
success  for  the  coming  year  and  express  our  support 
for the upcoming work, in the hope of continuing the 
significant progress made in the last session.
The two most recent resolutions on the revitalization 
of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  have  been 
ground-breaking.  Resolution  69/321  paved  the  way 
for  a  more  transparent  Secretary-General  selection 
process  this  year,  which  has  improved  the  public 
image  and  accountability  of  the  United  Nations.  This 
landmark year’s selection process has almost finished 
and,  in  that  regard,  we  look  forward  to  the  General 
Assembly plenary session next week. We are grateful 
to you, Mr. President, for the nomination of two special 
advisers, Ambassador Ioannis Vrailas and Ambassador 
Sofia Borges, to facilitate the outcome of the process.
that  strengthen 
Resolution  70/305  also  contains 
significant 
new  elements 
the  accountability, 
transparency and institutional memory of the Office of 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly.  In  particular, 
they  include  the  release  of  detailed  information  on 
the  finances,  official  travel,  staffing  and  activities  of 
the  Office  of  the  President,  the  release  of  a  written 
handover  summary  of  best  practices  and  lessons 
learned  to  the  President’s  successor  and  to  Member 
States  in  a  standardized  format,  and  the  preservation 
of  records  and 
the 
President’s  term  in  office  by  using  existing  record-
keeping  and  archiving  facilities.  Also  noteworthy  in 
resolution  70/305  is  the  agreement  on  the  release  of 
financial disclosures on assumption and completion of 
the President’s duties, in line with the existing United 
Nations  financial  disclosure  programme.  In  addition, 
we agree that all contributions should be vetted through 
the United Nations Ethics Office and that non-in-kind 
contributions should be channelled through the United 
Nations Trust Fund.
institutional  memory  during 
Particular  progress  was  also  made  in  other  areas, 
such  as  the  establishment  of  a  code  of  ethics  to  be 
observed  by  the  President,  including  the  members  of 
his or her Office, and of an individual oath of office, as 
we already witnessed a few weeks ago when you, Mr 
President, assumed the position. That is complemented 
by the decision to enhance cooperation and interaction 
between  the  permanent  missions  and  the  Secretariat 
through  an  interactive  and  comprehensive  dialogue. 
Another aspect worth highlighting is the new progress 
in  efforts  to  create  equal  opportunities  for  men  and 
women  and  to  ensure  a  gender  balance  throughout 
the  United  Nations  system  and  in  the  Office  of  the 
President.  All  these  and  other  elements  agreed  upon 
in the recently adopted resolution will ensure that the 
public  image  of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  the 
Office of the President, are enhanced.
Effective multilateralism, with the United Nations 
at its core, remains key. Our top priorities remain the 
strengthening  of  the  Organization,  based  on  effective 
and sustainable funding that is in line with real capacity 
to pay; and increasing the efficiency of its functioning, 
an  area  in  which  there  is  scope  to  do  more.  In  that 
context, we continue to be committed to revitalization 
and to supporting efforts aimed at strengthening the role 
and authority of the General Assembly, in line with the 
Charter of the United Nations and relevant resolutions. 
That  is  especially  needed  in  the  context  of  the  global 
challenges the world is facing today. At the same time, 
we  wish  to  reiterate  that  it  is  imperative  for  concrete 
steps to be taken at all levels, with a view to spending 
more wisely, delivering in new ways and ensuring that 
the  Organization  functions  within  the  agreed  budget 
levels.  An  unceasing  effort  to  find  new  and  creative 
ways to work is essential if we are to achieve a more 
effective delivery of mandates and the sustainable use 
of resources.
We believe that revitalization can be ensured only 
when  the  General  Assembly  takes  relevant  action 
on  issues  of  common  concern  to  the  international 
community and produces results. By doing so, it lives 
up to its role as one of the principal organs of the United 
Nations. The revitalization of the work of the General 
Assembly is clearly pivotal for the overall reform of the 
United Nations.
Focusing on the negotiations ahead of us, we believe 
that this session’s resolutions should aim to consolidate 
the work achieved so far, and we remain committed to 
working  to  improve  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness 
of  the  functioning  of  the  General  Assembly.  In  that 
regard,  enhancing  the  role  of  the  General  Committee 
to  support  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  could 
4/14 
16-31169
06/10/2016 
A/71/PV.25
be  helpful  and  needs  to  be  further  explored.  Further 
streamlining  of  the  work  of  the  different  committees 
and  of  the  relationship  between  the  Security  Council 
and the General Assembly is still needed.
Finally, let me emphasize the important role of the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
Work of the General Assembly. I would like to assure 
you that the European Union and its member States will 
continue to constructively engage in the proceedings of 
the Ad Hoc Working Group.
Mr.  Bessedik  (Algeria):  I  thank  you,  Sir,  for  all 
your  efforts  concerning  the  sensitive  issue  of  the 
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly.
I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries (NAM).
Let  me  first  thank  the  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of 
the General Assembly, the Permanent Representatives 
of  Croatia  and  Namibia, 
for  having  achieved 
positive  outcomes  at  its  previous  two  sessions.  The 
Non-Aligned  Movement  underlines  the  importance  of 
the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly 
as a political process rather than a procedural matter, 
aimed mainly at strengthening the role of the General 
Assembly  as  the  chief  deliberative,  policymaking 
and representative organ of the United Nations in the 
wider  United  Nations  system.  The  process  should 
therefore be conducted in an inclusive, transparent and 
efficient  manner.  A  reinvigorated  General  Assembly 
in  a  more  responsive  environment,  fully  exerting  its 
role  and  authority,  would  significantly  contribute  to 
the strengthening of the wider United Nations system, 
the  improvement  of  international  governance  and  the 
enhancement of multilateralism.
thorough  evaluation  of 
the 
implementation  of  the  General  Assembly  resolutions 
on  this  issue  and  a  clear  identification  of  the  causes 
delaying implementation are of the utmost importance, 
so that constraints can be progressively eliminated and 
the revitalization of the General Assembly can achieve 
its full potential. The Movement stresses the importance 
of implementing the General Assembly resolutions on 
a  non-selective  basis,  including  the  provisions  related 
to the revitalization of its work that require follow-up 
or further action, as indicated in the inventory chart. It 
is worth highlighting that the implementation of some 
provisions  depends  on  the  political  will  of  all  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations.  In  that  context,  we 
A 
the  status  of 
reaffirm the role and authority of the General Assembly, 
including  on  questions  related  to  international  peace 
and  security,  and  its  intergovernmental,  inclusive 
and  democratic  character,  which  have  immensely 
contributed  to  the  promotion  of  the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the 
achievement of United Nations goals. NAM reaffirms 
the  intergovernmental  nature  of  the  United  Nations 
and draws attention to the need to consult all Member 
States  about  the  initiatives  and  activities  undertaken 
within the Organization.
In  a  context  of  increased  global  challenges,  the 
Movement  reaffirms  that  the  role  of  the  Secretary-
General is one of the most important and challenging in 
the world. His appointment should be more transparent 
and democratic and should include all Member States 
through  the  effective  participation  of  the  General 
Assembly  in  the  selection  and  appointment  process. 
In a letter dated 13 September, Mr. Mogens Lykketoft 
expressed  his  hope  that  the  General  Assembly  would 
be  able  to  reach  a  decision  —  whether  through  the 
designation  of  co-facilitators  or  not  —  on  drafting  a 
consensus  resolution  appointing  the  next  Secretary-
General and that, upon receiving the recommendation 
from  the  Security  Council,  the  appointment  draft 
resolution  could  be  adopted  in  a  timely  manner  in 
order to give the next Secretary-General enough time 
to  prepare.  He  also  expressed  the  hope  —  which  we 
echo — that it will be possible to further consolidate and 
entrench the principles of transparency and inclusivity.
In its statement with regard to the informal meeting 
of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization 
of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly  on  29  August, 
NAM reiterated once again that the process of selection 
and  appointment  of  the  new  Secretary-General  by 
the  General  Assembly  —  one  of  the  most  significant 
ongoing  issues  addressed  by  the  United  Nations  this 
year — should be carried out in full compliance with 
the  General  Assembly’s  mandate.  These  include  the 
Assembly’s consideration of the draft resolution, which 
should be preceded by wide and extensive consultations 
with all States Members of the United Nations, and its 
voting  by  secret  ballot  on  the  recommendation  of  the 
Security  Council  in  conformity  with  rule  141  of  the 
rules of procedure of the General Assembly.
In the light of the latest developments in connection 
with  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-
General,  NAM  continues  to  call  upon  the  Security 
Council  to  consider,  not  only  now  but  in  the  future, 
16-31169
5/14
A/71/PV.25 
06/10/2016
the  possibility  whereby  more  than  one  candidacy  is 
endorsed  and  submitted  to  the  General  Assembly  in 
the  interest  of  selecting  the  best  possible  candidate 
from  among  those  possessing  and  displaying,  inter 
alia, commitment to the purposes and principles of the 
Charter,  extensive  leadership  and  administrative  and 
diplomatic experience.
Furthermore,  NAM  calls  on  the  Presidents  of  the 
General Assembly and the Security Council to continue 
to  hold  timely  informal  meetings  for  an  exchange  of 
views  on  the  ongoing  process  of  the  selection  and 
appointment  of  the  future  Secretary-General.  In  the 
course of the identification and appointment of the best 
person for the post of Secretary-General, including from 
among women candidates, due regard shall continue to 
be given to regional rotation and also to gender equality, 
as stipulated in paragraph 38 of resolution 69/321 and 
in  paragraph  59  of  resolution  51/241.  We  should  not 
forget  that  it  is  up  to  the  General  Assembly  to  select 
and appoint the Secretary-General, and it is up to the 
General Assembly to decide upon the recommendation 
of the Security Council.
We  also  believe  that  prevailing  practices  in  the 
election  of  executive  heads  elsewhere  in  the  United 
Nations  system  could  be  suitable  for  the  appointment 
of  the  Secretary-General.  We  therefore  recommend 
considering  existing  practices.  Moreover,  NAM 
would  like  to  emphasize  the  issue  of  promises  made 
by  candidates  in  exchange  for  the  support  of  the 
permanent members of the Security Council, which is 
described in the report of the Joint Inspection Unit for 
2011 (A/66/34).
We  consider  that  no  Member  State  should  have 
a  privileged  position  in  this  matter.  It  is  therefore 
important  that  candidates  not  be  pressured,  either 
before  or  after  being  appointed,  into  giving  posts  in 
the  Secretariat  to  people  of  any  particular  nationality 
in  return  for  political  support,  since  that  is  clearly 
contrary to the spirit of the Charter. The selection of the 
new Secretary-General will test our capacity to live up 
to the ethical standard required. The General Assembly 
must not be left out of the picture or merely be asked to 
rubber-stamp decisions taken by the Security Council.
While we recognize the role of the Security Council, 
we look forward to a new form of positive cooperation, 
with broader acceptance and efficiency of the missions 
and  functions  of  the  Secretary-General.  That  issue, 
one  of  utmost  importance  to  all  of  us,  was  raised  in 
two  letters  sent  to  the  President,  the  first  on  behalf 
of  NAM,  dated  29  June  2016,  the  second  on  behalf 
of  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency 
group,  dated  18  May  2016.  On  29  August,  a  meeting 
was organized by the co-Chairs to explore those issues 
with  the  membership,  in  response  to  the  invitation  of 
the President. We hope that the process of consultation 
will continue throughout the negotiations on the draft 
resolution appointing the Secretary-General.
We 
take 
this  opportunity 
to  request  further 
clarifications  from  the  President  on  the  next  steps 
and the necessary preparatory procedures to organize 
broad,  transparent  and  inclusive  consultations  with 
all Member States before submitting the resolution on 
the  selection  and  appointment  of  the  tenth  Secretary-
General.
like 
Ms.  Kasese-Bota  (Zambia),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  express  our 
appreciation  for  the  fact  that  resolution  70/305,  the 
most  recent  on  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of 
the  General  Assembly,  was  adopted  by  consensus. 
Nevertheless,  we  have  to  emphatically  recall  that  our 
Group  has  always  shown  great  flexibility,  even  when 
we had misgivings. We hope that our concerns will be 
fully taken into consideration during the next round of 
negotiations — which normally should have a positive 
outcome  —  on  the  submission  of  a  draft  resolution 
concerning  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the 
Secretary-General and its adoption by the Assembly in 
a transparent, democratic manner.
We note that we have repeatedly emphasized some 
issues. We will continue to do so until we have achieved 
our objectives.
Mr.  Phansourivong  (Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic): I have the honour to speak on behalf of the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN), 
comprising  10  member  States:  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Cambodia, 
the 
Philippines,  Singapore,  Thailand,  Viet  Nam  and  my 
own country, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
Indonesia,  Malaysia,  Myanmar, 
At  the  outset,  let  me  congratulate  Mr.  Vladimir 
Drobnjak,  Permanent  Representative  of  Croatia,  and 
Mr.  Wilfried  Emvula,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Namibia, on their excellent work as co-Chairs of the Ad 
Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work 
of  the  General  Assembly.  ASEAN  warmly  welcomes 
6/14 
16-31169
06/10/2016 
A/71/PV.25
the  progress  made  during  their  co-chairmanship,  as 
reflected  in  resolution  70/305,  which  was  adopted  by 
consensus  on  13  September.  ASEAN  would  also  like 
to  express  its  appreciation  to  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft, 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session,  for  his  commitment  and  effort  in  moving 
forward  the  agenda  on  the  revitalization  of  the  work 
of the General Assembly, especially his commitment to 
transparency and openness.
ASEAN  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  once 
again  to  congratulate  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at 
its  seventy-first  session,  Mr.  Peter 
Thomson.  ASEAN  firmly  believes  that,  under  his 
leadership, the process of revitalization of the General 
Assembly will yield more positive results.
ASEAN  is  pleased  with  the  implementation  of 
resolution  69/321,  on  the  process  of  the  selection 
and  appointment  of 
the  next  Secretary-General, 
particularly the holding of informal dialogues between 
the  candidates  and  the  General  Assembly,  which  has 
provided an opportunity for candidates to interact with 
the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations.  Moving 
forward, ASEAN believes that the agreement reached 
in resolution 70/305 should be implemented faithfully 
to  provide  for  a  transparent  and  inclusive  selection 
process  that  would  ensure  that  the  best  possible 
candidate is selected for the post of Secretary-General.
It is important that Member States be provided with 
an  opportunity  to  further  reinvigorate  and  revitalize 
the United Nations. ASEAN believes that revitalization 
will make the Organization more effective, transparent 
and inclusive, and thereby better equipped to respond 
to  the  needs  of  Member  States.  We  should  all  work 
together to make the General Assembly play its role as 
the chief deliberative, policymaking and representative 
organ of the United Nations.
ASEAN  welcomes  the  reaffirmation  in  resolution 
70/305  of  the  importance  and  benefit  of  interaction 
between  the  General  Assembly  and  international  or 
regional forums and organizations dealing with global 
matters  of  concern  to  the  international  community. 
ASEAN  takes  note  of  the  report  to  the  General 
Assembly on the strategic alignment of future sessions 
of  the  General  Assembly  with  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
ASEAN  recognizes  that  complementarities  exist 
between the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and  the  ASEAN  Community  Vision  2025.  We  also 
recognize the importance of dialogue and cooperation 
between  ASEAN  and  the  United  Nations  in  taking 
forward the work on enhancing such complementarities, 
as  reflected  in  the  ASEAN-United  Nations  Plan  of 
Action 2016-2020.
ASEAN stands ready to support the strengthening of 
the institutional memory of the Office of the President. 
The relevant provisions of resolution 70/305 should be 
fully  implemented.  ASEAN  expresses  its  thanks  and 
appreciation to those Member States that have seconded 
their nationals to the Office of the President. ASEAN is 
pleased about the adoption of the code of ethics and oath 
of office by the General Assembly this year as a means 
to reinforce transparency, accountability and the moral 
and ethical integrity of the President and his Office.
In conclusion, ASEAN reaffirms its commitment to 
engage effectively and constructively with all Member 
States in order to ensure the successful outcome of the 
Ad Hoc Working Group session on revitalizing the work 
of the General Assembly. We are confident that, with 
the political goodwill of all Member States, we will be 
able to reach consensus and achieve concrete outcomes.
Ms.  Abdullah  (Malaysia):  At  the  outset,  I  wish 
to  congratulate  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Croatia  and  of  Namibia,  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session.  I  join 
other  colleagues  in  extending  our  appreciation  for 
their  excellent  stewardship  and  leadership,  and  the 
commitment  shown  by  all  concerned  in  enabling  the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  to  make  greater  progress 
towards  our  common  goal  of  revitalizing  the  General 
Assembly in all its aspects, including its role, authority, 
effectiveness and efficiency.
My delegation is encouraged by the recent adoption 
of resolution 70/305, entitled “Revitalization of the work 
of the General Assembly”, and that of its predecessor, 
resolution  69/321.  Malaysia  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Laos  on  behalf  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asia 
Nations (ASEAN).
United  Nations  reform,  particularly  revitalization 
of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly,  remains  an 
important  annual  agenda  item  for  all  the  members  of 
that body. My delegation appreciates the updated annex 
to the report of the Ad Hoc Working Group (A/70/1003), 
which  has  enabled  Member  States  to  keep  abreast  of 
the  implementation  of  the  previous  resolutions  on 
16-31169
7/14
A/71/PV.25 
06/10/2016
revitalization.  We  welcome  the  efforts  made  by  the 
Secretariat  in  providing  such  updates,  which  have 
provided Member States with a better understanding of 
the  reasons  behind  any  lack  of  implementation  of  the 
resolutions. While the ongoing review of the inventory 
of  resolutions  on  revitalization  is  a  step  in  the  right 
direction, the process should not stop there. Without a 
doubt, the next logical step is to find ways to address 
the  underlying  causes  and  remove  any  constraints, 
thereby paving the way for the eventual implementation 
of the resolutions.
Malaysia  is  of  the  view  that  we  should  persevere 
in  our  collective  effort  to  ensure  that  the  General 
Assembly remains the chief deliberative, policymaking 
and representative organ of the United Nations. It is the 
highest authoritative body of the United Nations in that 
it represents all 193 Member States.
We  welcome  the  General  Assembly’s  continuing 
support in enhancing United Nations interactions with 
international,  regional  and  subregional  organizations 
such  as  ASEAN  and  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries on various global issues. Malaysia will work 
closely  with  other  Member  States  in  discussing  the 
drafting of the proposed resolution on the appointment 
of  the  Secretary-General  in  a  timely  manner  and  in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, the 
mandates and other relevant appointment procedures.
Finally,  I  wish 
to  reiterate  my  delegation’s 
commitment to working constructively with all Member 
States in ensuring that the General Assembly maintains 
its role as the principal policymaking and norm-setting 
organ of the United Nations.
Mr.  Iliichev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian): We welcome today’s meeting of the General 
Assembly on the revitalization of its work. We support 
realistic initiatives to increase the effectiveness of the 
Assembly’s  work  in  many  ways  that  can  be  achieved 
by  improving  its  working  methods  and  streamlining 
its  agenda,  which  is  now  seriously  burdened.  We 
presume that there is a need to continue the transition to 
considering some agenda items on a two- or three-year 
basis  and  removing  those  items  that  are  no  longer 
timely.
We  endorse  the  proposal  to  unburden  the  high-
level  week,  particularly  the  general  debate,  because 
when Heads of State and Government and Ministers for 
Foreign Affairs are in New York, they already have a 
full timetable of bilateral contacts. It would be sensible 
to  limit  the  number  of  high-level  events  at  that  time. 
Those  remaining  should  be  spread  throughout  the 
session of the General Assembly.
It goes without saying that any attempt to carry out 
reforms should be based on strict compliance with the 
distribution of prerogatives among the principal organs 
of the United Nations, as set out in the Charter of the 
United Nations.
the  General  Assembly  for 
The  Security  Council  is  today  completing  the 
process  of  selecting  a  new  Secretary-General.  The 
candidacy of António Guterres has been recommended 
to 
its  consideration. 
Resolution 69/321 introduced a range of new elements 
into  the  procedure  for  selecting  the  new  Secretary-
General,  and  the  recently  adopted  resolution  70/305 
strengthened  them.  Russia  played  an  active  role  in 
their coordination.
to  optimize  existing  procedures  with 
We are prepared to engage in further constructive 
the 
work 
involvement  of  all  Member  States.  All  ideas  are 
worthy  of  careful  consideration.  Having  said  that,  we 
must not forget that our main objective is for the post 
of  Secretary-General  to  be  held  by  the  most  worthy 
candidate. The introduction of new initiatives not based 
on  consensus  may  lead  to  divisions  in  the  General 
Assembly and seriously complicate the process for the 
selection and appointment of a new Secretary-General 
that is already under way. We are not, therefore, ready 
to support any proposal to enact further changes in the 
existing procedure.
The  same  applies 
to 
the  preparation  of 
the 
General  Assembly  resolution  on  the  appointment  of 
the  Secretary-General.  We  are  opposed  to  attempts 
to  load  that  document  with  controversial  political 
elements  when  it  is  essentially  a  technical  document. 
Furthermore,  lengthy  discussions  on  the  draft  might 
lead to a delay in the appointment of Mr. Ban Ki-moon’s 
successor, which would be unwelcome from a political 
perspective and would hardly help the new Secretary-
General  to  familiarize  himself  with  all  aspects  of  the 
work of the Organization.
In  considering  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly, we hear criticisms of the Security Council, 
including the suggestion that at times it impinges on the 
prerogatives of other United Nations bodies. We share 
such  concerns.  Our  Council  colleagues  are  certainly 
aware of our hesitancy about proposals that the Security 
Council  should  consider  thematic  subjects,  especially 
8/14 
16-31169
06/10/2016 
A/71/PV.25
generic ones. We believe that the Council should focus 
on  country-based  subjects  and  on  issues  regarding 
which it can and should take specific decisions.
We  note  that  at  times  the  Security  Council  holds 
open  debates  that  do  not  directly  relate  to  issues 
concerning the maintenance of international peace and 
security. We are sometimes of the impression that the 
General Assembly has in fact moved into the Security 
Council Chamber. We believe that debates of that nature 
should take place in the General Assembly, where all 
States Members of the United Nations can speak on an 
equal footing. That would give the revitalization of the 
General Assembly an additional chance of success.
Mr. Drobnjak (Croatia): Croatia aligns itself with 
the  statement  delivered  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union.  I  will  make  some  brief  additional  remarks  on 
the issue at hand.
First  and  foremost,  I  am  confident  that  I  also 
speak  for  Ambassador  Emvula  of  Namibia,  my 
valued co-Chair of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the 
Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly, 
when I say that we were deeply honoured to facilitate 
such a vital, important and far-reaching process during 
both  the  sixty-ninth  and  seventieth  sessions  of  the 
General Assembly. We have truly enjoyed two fruitful 
years of deliberations in the Ad Hoc Working Group, 
and we express once again our appreciation for being 
entrusted with such an important task.
the  very 
Having  before  us 
tangible  results 
embodied in resolutions 69/321 and 70/305, resolutions 
that more than once have been referred to as milestone 
documents,  we  can  state  with  certainty  that  we  have 
indeed  proved  what  can  be  achieved  when  there  is  a 
willingness on the part of all Member States to engage 
in a thorough, substantive debate on numerous crucial 
aspects of the issue of General Assembly revitalization. 
And through those resolutions the value of consensus 
once again proved to be pivotal.
the  Secretary-General,  and 
Notable  advances  were  most  definitely  made  in 
some key domains of the work of the Organization, in 
particular those related to the selection and appointment 
of 
the 
efficiency,  transparency  and  accountability  of  the 
General Assembly and the Office of its President. How 
do we see this being implemented in practice? Let me 
give a couple of noteworthy examples.
increasing 
to 
Several  days  ago,  the  handover  report  of  the 
outgoing  President  was  circulated  to  Member  States. 
And we recently witnessed a historic moment when the 
incoming  President  of  the  Assembly  took  the  oath  of 
office in this very Hall. We are in the very final stages 
of the selection and appointment of the next Secretary-
General, a process that for the first time, was conducted 
in  an  open  and  inclusive  manner,  in  accordance  with 
resolution  69/321.  Some  issues  were  successfully 
addressed  and  provided  with  appropriate,  effective 
solutions. On the other hand, some issues are still to be 
addressed properly and inclusively during this session 
and beyond.
I believe we established in our previous deliberations 
that the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of 
the General Assembly serves as an important platform 
for  exchanging  views  on  pivotal  parts  of  reform 
processes  and  for  exploring  their  potential  scope  and 
depth. Even when it is not possible to reach consensus 
on certain elements, it is beyond doubt that the entire 
membership profits considerably from such exchanges 
of views. The Working Group should therefore continue 
to  address  various  issues  of  interest  with  a  view  to 
deepening our understanding on different positions and 
to try to bring them closer together.
It  should  also  be  noted  that  during  the  seventieth 
session, the Ad Hoc Working Group invited members of 
the Secretariat on several occasions to provide Member 
States  with  additional  information  and  answers  to 
some  pertinent  questions  on  the  issues  at  hand.  The 
interactive  dialogue  with  the  Secretariat  proved  to  be 
very useful and mutually beneficial, and it stands out 
as  a  practice  that  is  certainly  worth  following  in  the 
future. In that regard, to give just one example, the issue 
of publishing a Journal of the United Nations in all six 
official  languages  throughout  the  year  particularly 
comes to mind.
There are without a doubt many areas to focus on in 
the forthcoming years and ample room for improvement 
within the framework of the revitalization of the General 
Assembly, but I remain confident that the constructive 
cooperation and consensus-based work we have seen so 
far, further guided by the able leadership of President 
Thomson at the seventy-first session, will continue to 
pave the way for new practices and set new standards in 
the functioning of the General Assembly.
I  thank  the  Assembly  once  again  for  its  support, 
cooperation and confidence.
16-31169
9/14
A/71/PV.25 
06/10/2016
The Acting President: I further wish to reiterate 
the President of the General Assembly’s gratitude to the 
Ambassadors of Croatia and of Namibia for co-chairing 
the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the 
Work of the General Assembly.
Mr. Pressman (United States of America): As we 
get an early start on this year’s revitalization process, 
the  United  States  would  first  like  to  thank  the  past 
year’s co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the 
Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly, 
the Permanent Representatives of Croatia and Namibia, 
for their expert leadership throughout the year’s debates 
and their impressive work to maintain consensus on the 
annual resolution.
During the course of the past year’s meetings, the 
Working Group discussed a very wide range of issues 
related  to  the  operations  of  the  General  Assembly. 
One area that was particularly important was the work 
done on increasing transparency and accountability in 
the  Office  of  the  President.  Addressing  institutional 
deficiencies  in  that  Office  is  critical,  and  we  were 
particularly encouraged by the symbolism of the code 
of ethics created for members of the Office and the oath 
inaugurated by our new President when he assumed his 
duties in September.
For  the  past  few  years,  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group  has  committed  much  of  its  time  and  energy 
to  the  process  of  the  selection  of  the  next  Secretary-
General. As we all know, the Security Council is this 
morning  providing  its  formal  recommendation.  We 
think  that  António  Guterres  will  be  an  extraordinary 
leader of the United Nations. With his appointment by 
the General Assembly, Mr. Guterres will take the helm 
of the United Nations at one of the most consequential 
moments in recent history. He will inherit some of the 
most complicated challenges to international peace and 
security, to human rights and to development.
The United Nations needs a visionary leader in these 
complicated times, and we believe we have found one in 
António Guterres. With more population displacement 
in the world than at any time since the Second World 
War, Mr. Guterres will leverage his past experience as 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
(UNHCR)  to  give  greater  attention  to  the  intense, 
urgent and often dire needs of displaced peoples. The 
United States is confident in Mr. Guterres’s leadership, 
his 
effectiveness, 
accountability and fiscal discipline and his commitment 
transparency, 
dedication 
to 
to  the  founding  principles  and  the  aspirations  of  the 
United Nations.
At  UNHCR,  António  Guterres  demonstrated  a 
capacity  to  deliver  real  results  for  the  people  who 
needed it most, while reforming a bureaucracy in need 
of change. The United Nations and the brave men and 
women who serve the Organization, often in dangerous 
places far from their home, need and deserve the kind of 
results-oriented leadership that Mr. Guterres has shown 
throughout his career. He is in our view the clear choice 
to  oversee  the  Organization  through  these  uncertain 
times. We have been guided in this process in large part 
by the innovations contained in resolution 69/321 and 
reinforced in resolution 70/305 at the previous session.
The United States believes that these revitalization 
processes have been carried out faithfully, and we have 
been  strong  supporters.  Ultimately,  we  believe  the 
Security  Council  has  put  forward  a  candidate  behind 
whom Member States will rally and whose appointment 
will send the strongest message that the Organization 
has selected a leader who can help unify us around the 
common cause of advancing the noble and critical goals 
of the United Nations.
As we seem to be starting the revitalization work 
earlier this year, we hope that will provide opportunities 
for  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  to  return  to  some  of 
the  central  issues  we  believe  should  be  our  priority. 
During  the  past  several  years,  the  Working  Group 
has been called on to look beyond its core mission of 
increasing the Assembly’s efficiency, effectiveness and 
transparency.  However,  to  broaden  our  scope  beyond 
those central concerns or to seek to address issues that 
are considered in parallel in other bodies or committees 
will  only  dilute  our  efforts  and  run  counter  to  our 
principal  goal  of  streamlining  and  rationalizing  the 
Assembly’s work.
Going forward, we should prioritize tangible aspects 
of  revitalization  that  will  result  in  real  improvements 
for  the  work  of  this  important  body.  These  include 
streamlining  and  prioritizing  the  agenda  to  avoid 
wasteful  overlap,  with  an  eye  to  removing  outdated 
topics and biennializing or triennializing what we can. 
Freeing  the  General  Assembly’s  agenda  of  outdated 
topics  would  allow  it  more  time  to  address  important 
contemporary  issues,  which  could  serve  to  increase 
focus  on,  and  the  visibility  of,  the  important  work  of 
this body. We should also look to improve the practices 
and working methods of the Main Committees.
10/14 
16-31169
06/10/2016 
A/71/PV.25
The  United  States  looks  forward  to  continuing 
its  active  participation  in  the  revitalization  work  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  to  working  with  all  fellow 
Member States together on these important issues.
Mr.  Gafoor  (Singapore):  Singapore  aligns  itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Laos  on  behalf  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations and by the representative of Algeria on behalf 
of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
I would like to make five additional points.
First,  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly 
is  a  work  in  progress.  We  have  made  great  strides 
during the past two years with the adoption of the two 
milestone  resolutions  69/321  and  70/305  under  the 
able  leadership  of  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Croatia  and  Namibia.  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity 
to congratulate them. However, we must not rest on our 
laurels.  As  already  stated,  the  process  to  improve  the 
work of the General Assembly and its processes must 
continue, and it must continue on the basis of consensus 
and enlarging the circle of consensus.
Secondly, we welcome the President’s commitment 
to  strengthening  the  transparency,  accountability  and 
institutional  memory  of  his  Office.  We  support  the 
practical  initiatives  taken  by  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft, 
the  previous  President  of  the  Assembly,  notably  in 
preparing and circulating a handover report, which we 
think has helped not only to strengthen the institutional 
memory  of  the  Office  of  the  President  but  also  to 
promote greater transparency in its work. We suggest 
that the President should build on the handover report 
by compiling a list of best practices that can be adopted 
by  future  incoming  Presidents.  We  also  welcome  the 
President’s  decision  to  retain  several  staff  members, 
including his predecessor’s Chef de Cabinet. We believe 
that such initiatives will promote greater continuity and 
strengthen the operational effectiveness of the Office. 
We urge the next Secretary-General to make that issue 
a priority, and we look forward to seeing the Secretary-
General’s proposals for reviewing the budget allocation 
for the Office of the President.
Thirdly,  the  efforts  to  make  the  selection  and 
appointment  process  of  the  Secretary-General  and 
other  executives  more  open  and  transparent  must 
continue.  We  welcome  the  new  standard  of  openness 
and  transparency,  ushered  in  by  former  President 
Lykketoft,  that  has  been  established  for  the  selection 
and appointment of the next Secretary-General. In that 
regard,  we  look  forward  to  having  an  opportunity  as 
soon as possible for the General Assembly to engage in 
a meaningful interactive dialogue with the Secretary-
General designate, and we hope that such an informal 
dialogue can take place before his formal appointment 
by the Assembly.
Singapore  would  also  like  to  suggest  that  the 
President of the Assembly consider initiating a regular 
dialogue with the Secretary-General, which could take 
the  form  of  a  regularly  held  town-hall  meeting  with 
all the members of the Assembly, presided over by the 
President.  The  aim  would  be  to  continue  to  build  on 
the  directions  and  understanding  established  between 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  incoming  Secretary-
General.
The  fourth  point  I  would  like  to  make  is  that  the 
improvements  in  the  appointment  process  must  not 
stop  with  the  Secretary-General  but  should  extend  to 
all other senior appointments within the Organization. 
We  call  on  the  next  Secretary-General  to  make 
appointments  based  on  merit,  taking  into  account 
gender and geographical balance, while also ensuring 
the  highest  standards  of  efficiency,  competence  and 
integrity. We do not believe that appointments of senior 
officials,  particularly  Under-Secretaries-General  and 
Assistant  Secretaries-General,  should  be  considered 
as being part of any deal or previously agreed package 
among a handful of countries.
Fifthly  and  finally,  my  delegation  considers 
the  issue  of  improving  the  working  methods  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  its  Main  Committees  to  be 
very  important.  One  priority  is  ensuring  that  the 
Assembly’s  agendas,  especially  those  of  its  Second 
and Third Committees, and those of the Economic and 
Social Council and its subsidiary bodies, are working 
coherently  together  to  support  implementation  of  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Our leaders 
have adopted the 17 Goals and 169 targets, and the onus 
is on all of us to ensure that we deliver on them.
We are happy to note that the President has made 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda a key priority. We 
look  forward  to  his  strategy  paper  on  the  subject  and 
will work with him to see how best the United Nations 
can  work  with  Member  States  in  order  to  make  a 
difference for our citizens. I would also like to endorse 
the  President’s  comments  on  the  need  to  review  the 
arrangements for the high-level week at the start of the 
Assembly’s new session. We should aim for fewer high-
16-31169
11/14
A/71/PV.25 
06/10/2016
level meetings but try to ensure that the ones we have 
are more focused and effective.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  saying  that  we  have 
every  confidence  that  the  President  will  build  on  the 
strong  foundations  laid  down  by  his  predecessor 
and  take  the  General  Assembly  to  new  heights  of 
transparency, accountability, efficiency and legitimacy. 
My  delegation  stands  ready  to  continue  working 
closely  with  him  and  his  team  and  making  a  positive 
contribution to that process.
Mr.  Minami  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  start  by 
thanking  the  President  for  convening  today’s  meeting 
and for his statement, which clearly defines his focus 
and  intentions.  My  delegation  concurs  with  others 
in  considering  resolutions  69/321  and  70/305,  on 
revitalization,  to  be  groundbreaking.  We  would  also 
like  to  express  our  sincere  gratitude  to  Ambassadors 
Vladimir Drobnjak of Croatia and Wilfried Emvula of 
Namibia for their hard work and skill in chairing the Ad 
Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the Work 
of the General Assembly.
As we all recall, there was an urgent and pressing 
need  for  ensuring  transparency  in  the  Office  of  the 
President of the General Assembly during the previous 
session.  Indeed,  the  oath  of  office  and  code  of  ethics 
established for the President were the most important 
achievements of resolution 70/305. My delegation would 
like  to  express  its  appreciation  for  the  commitment 
of  President  Thomson  and  his  team  to  continuing  to 
ensure  the  Office’s  transparency.  We  will  spare  no 
effort in continuing to work with the Office on this very 
important matter.
Regarding  the  selection  of  the  next  Secretary-
General, my delegation welcomes the recommendation 
of  Mr.  António  Guterres  that  the  Security  Council 
has  just  made  to  the  General  Assembly.  Article  97 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  stipulates  that 
“[t]he  Secretary-General  shall  be  appointed  by  the 
General  Assembly  upon  the  recommendation  of  the 
Security Council”. While it is legitimate that the entire 
membership of the Assembly should be involved in that 
question, we do not have the luxury of time, given the 
number of immediate challenges we face today. Since 
no interruption can be allowed, it is our shared duty in 
the  General  Assembly  to  appoint  the  next  Secretary-
General  as  soon  as  possible,so  that  the  Secretary-
General-designate  has  enough  time  to  prepare  for 
the  transition  from  his  predecessor.  The  President 
circulated  a  letter  on  that  point  to  all  the  Permanent 
Representatives  on  23  September.  My  delegation 
welcomes  the  initiative  he  has  taken  to  move  things 
forward  as  quickly  as  possible.  We  will  certainly  be 
discussing the subject in the very near future.
I  would  now  like  to  touch  on  the  subject  of  the 
decision-making  process  in  the  Assembly.  While  the 
General Assembly has appointed the Secretary-General 
by  acclamation  since  1971,  the  records  show  that  the 
first  three  Secretaries-General  were  appointed  by  a 
vote in the Assembly. It would be interesting for us to 
revisit the past practice of acclamation and discuss the 
issue thoroughly. If a vote were held, it would give the 
Assembly a voice independent of the Security Council. 
However, my delegation would like to emphasize that 
a  Secretary-General  should  receive  the  unanimous 
support of the Member States at the end of the process.
During  the  course  of  the  seventy-first  session, 
it  will  be  important  to  continue  our  discussions  of 
revitalization  of  the  Assembly,  and  particularly  and 
essentially of its working methods. Japan has been very 
active  on  the  issue  of  improving  working  methods. 
For example, resolution 68/307 moved the dates of the 
Security  Council  and  Economic  and  Social  Council 
elections  from  October  to  June.  In  order  to  achieve 
the resolution’s intended goal of giving new members 
more time to prepare for membership, Japan, as Chair 
of  the  Security  Council’s  Informal  Working  Group 
on  Documentation  and  Other  Procedural  Questions, 
proposed that the Informal Working Group revisit the 
transitional  arrangements  for  newly  elected  Council 
members.  On  15  July,  after  intensive  consultations, 
the  Security  Council  issued  a  new  presidential  note, 
contained in document S/2016/619, which now invites 
newly  elected  members  to  Council  meetings  starting 
on 1 October. The note also brings more transparency 
and inclusivity to the selection process of the Chairs of 
subsidiary organs.
The issue of rationalizing the General Assembly’s 
work is also an urgent challenge. As we advocated last 
year, we should consider biennializing or triennializing 
the  agenda  items  currently  being  discussed.  We  look 
forward  to  working  with  the  President  on  that  issue 
again in the current session.
Just  as  we  moved  the  Security  Council  and 
Economic  and  Social  Council  elections  to  earlier 
dates,  we  could  also  consider  holding  the  election  of 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  earlier  so  that 
12/14 
16-31169
06/10/2016 
A/71/PV.25
the  President-elect  has  enough  time  to  set  up  a  team 
and  prepare  for  the  handover.  My  delegation  already 
made that proposal at the March meeting of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group. I believe that the idea is in line with 
suggestions made by several of the Chairs of the Main 
Committees that stress the need to hold early elections 
in order to ensure a smooth transition.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reaffirming  that 
Japan  stands  ready  to  support  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  to  contribute  constructively 
to  discussions  of  the  revitalization  of  the  Assembly’s 
work aimed at further enhancing the effectiveness and 
transparency of the United Nations.
Ms.  Krisnamurthi  (Indonesia):  Indonesia  would 
first  like  to  thank  the  President  for  convening  this 
very important joint debate. We would like to associate 
ourselves  with  the  statement  delivered  earlier  by  the 
representative of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
on behalf of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
Many of the challenges confronting our world today 
are multidimensional and interconnected, and require a 
response that is also multidimensional, interconnected 
and  well  supported  by  all  of  us.  There  is  no  better 
platform  for  dealing  with  the  gamut  of  global  issues 
than the General Assembly, for it represents, uniquely, 
the  entirety  of  the  United  Nations  membership,  with 
its rich insights and collective wisdom. The Assembly 
members’ actions, ownership and support are essential 
to arriving at solutions that can deliver the goods. And 
while the General Assembly should examine problems 
of  concern  to  its  member  States  and  come  up  with 
cogent  answers,  its  members  should  also  effectively 
implement the resolutions it adopts.
Over the years, the Assembly’s Main Committees 
and  subsidiary  organs  have  made  commendable 
progress on a number of issues. The Assembly’s high-
level meetings on critical problems such as epidemics, 
natural disasters, peace and security and development 
have  also  been  vital 
to  enhancing  our  shared 
understanding and garnering international support. Yet 
it is also evident that there are gaps in implementation 
efforts.  All 
their 
responsibilities for implementing Assembly resolutions 
and decisions, which in turn contributes to the urgent 
goal of revitalizing the Assembly.
stakeholders 
should 
shoulder 
Indonesia  fully  supports  strengthening  the  role 
and  authority  of  the  General  Assembly  in  accordance 
with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  very 
important  that  we  all  promote  the  Assembly’s  central 
position  as  the  chief  deliberative,  policymaking  and 
representative  United  Nations  organ.  In  that  regard, 
Indonesia applauds the efforts of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly,  under  its  co-Chairs  during  the  seventieth 
session,  the  Ambassadors  of  Croatia  and  Namibia. 
The Ad Hoc Working Group’s examination of all four 
topics before it and proposals on them, as reflected in 
its latest annual report and inventory chart (A/70/1003), 
highlight areas of significant progress as well as those 
that require action.
The past year has seen some key advances that we 
should build on. Beginning with the landmark resolution 
69/321,  the  joint  letter  from  the  Presidents  of  the 
Security  Council  and  General  Assembly  on  soliciting 
candidates  for  the  position  of  Secretary-General,  and 
the  subsequent  informal  dialogues  between  Member 
States  and  candidates,  have  opened  a  new  window  in 
making the process of selecting the Secretary-General 
more  participatory.  Together,  we  should  see  to  it  that 
the General Assembly continues to play a leading role 
in  ensuring  that  the  current  and  future  processes  for 
selecting  and  appointing  the  Secretary-General  are 
more open, participatory and transparent.
It is also essential that the appointments of executive 
heads and other senior officials, both in the Secretariat 
and  in  the  field,  be  clear  examples  of  a  merit-based 
and balanced geographic representation. In particular, 
qualified  nationals  from  underrepresented  developing 
countries should be given due consideration.
The seventieth session also saw the elections to the 
Economic and Social Council and to the non-permanent 
seats  in  the  Security  Council  moved  forward  so  that 
they  are  now  held  six  months  in  advance,  another 
positive  development.  Such  improvements  in  working 
methods should continue.
Indonesia welcomes resolution 70/305, which builds 
on resolution 69/321. It breaks new ground, particularly 
regarding  the  transparency  and  accountability  of  the 
Office of the President of the General Assembly, and we 
strongly support that. However, while measures such as 
the institution of an oath of office, a code of conduct, 
mandated  record-keeping  and  financial  disclosure  are 
welcome, it is vital that the Office of the President also 
have an adequate budget, with the human resources it 
needs  to  ensure  its  optimal  performance,  which  must 
16-31169
13/14
A/71/PV.25 
06/10/2016
include  robust  dissemination  and  outreach  to  global 
audiences.
A key subject before the General Assembly at this 
session and others to come is the effective facilitation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
Another is its role in ensuring that conflict prevention 
and  political  solutions  are  accorded  primacy  through 
improvements  in  regional  partnerships  and  United 
Nations  mechanisms,  as  has  been  underscored  by  the 
three major reviews of United Nations peace operations, 
its peacebuilding architecture, and its agenda on women 
and peace and security.
There  are  many  other  critical  imperatives,  some 
of them related, such as properly addressing the plight 
of  the  65  million  people  who  are  currently  displaced 
around the world. Much needs to be done, and it should 
be  done  urgently  and  collaboratively.  The  General 
Assembly has a special role to play in helping to address 
our global challenges. But it can be only as robust as the 
political and financial backing that Member States give 
to  it  and  its  Main  Committees  and  subsidiary  bodies. 
Together, let us enable the General Assembly to perform 
its role fully. The delegation of Indonesia will continue 
to  work  tirelessly  in  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  and 
other  forums  to  contribute  to  and  support  steps  that 
meaningfully strengthen the General Assembly and its 
mechanisms.
The meeting rose at 11.30 a.m.
14/14 
16-31169
