United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
11th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 21 September 2016, 9.15 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.11
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 9.15 a.m.
Address by Mr. Sauli Niinistö, President of the 
Republic of Finland
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Finland.
into 
Mr.  Sauli  Niinistö,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Finland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Sauli Niinistö, President of the Republic 
of Finland, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Niinistö:  I  wish  to  congratulate  you, 
Sir, upon your election as the President of the General 
Assembly at its seventy-first session. You can count on 
Finland´s full support in your important responsibilities.
This  will  be  the  last  General  Assembly  for  the 
current  Secretary-General  in  that  capacity.  I  thank 
him  for  his  untiring  efforts  to  advance  the  common 
good  of  humankind.  During  his  time  in  office,  he 
has  been  instrumental  in  setting  an  ambitious  agenda 
for  sustainable  development  and  for  tackling  climate 
change.  Those  achievements  will  make  a  difference 
for  generations  to  come.  We  had  the  pleasure  of 
hosting  the  Secretary-General  last  December,  when 
Finland  marked  its  sixtieth  anniversary  as  a  Member 
of the United Nations. It was an opportunity to remind 
ourselves  of  what  the  United  Nations  stands  for.  The 
United  Nations  is  the  embodiment  and  arbiter  of  the 
rules-based  international  system  of  sovereign  States. 
It  is  the  only  truly  global  body  that  we  have,  but  we 
must work together to ensure that it functions better in 
fulfilling its many tasks.
Unfortunately,  the  world  continues  to  confront 
challenges  to  international  peace  and  security  all 
over.  Narrow-minded  nationalism,  racism  and  violent 
extremism  are  on  the  rise.  We  must  battle  those 
destructive ideologies. The recent nuclear test by North 
Korea  is  a  cause  for  grave  concern.  The  conflict  in 
Ukraine  still  awaits  its  resolution.  All  illegal  actions, 
including the annexation of Crimea by Russia, are to be 
condemned. The complex and horrendous conflicts in 
and around Syria and Iraq continue to affect not only 
the Middle East but, indirectly, also Europe, including 
my own country, Finland.
Such  conflicts  have  already  killed  and  maimed 
hundreds of thousands and displaced many more. They 
have  given  rise  to  unprecedented  flows  of  asylum- 
seekers towards and into Europe. European societies are 
compassionate,  but  today  they  are  under  stress.  Their 
capacity to provide for asylum-seekers and to integrate 
them  at  home,  or  to  provide  humanitarian  assistance 
abroad, has limits.
During the week of the United Nations high-level 
meeting,  we  discussed  refugees  and  migration,  and 
for  good  reason.  We  have  to  work  together  to  find 
sustainable  solutions  at  the  global  and  regional  levels 
to better control borders, while safeguarding the rights 
of  those  seeking  international  protection  on  the  basis 
of  a  well-founded  fear  of  persecution.  That  requires 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29421 (E)
*1629421*
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
vision, courage and leadership. The alternative is stark: 
borders will become walls closed even to those entitled 
to refugee status.
The problem is severe. Every day tens of thousands 
of  people  are  displaced  as  a  result  of  conflict, 
persecution  or  natural  disasters,  while  others  are  on 
the move seeking a better life. There is an increasing 
need for humanitarian assistance. The European Union 
and my country, as a member, will continue to shoulder 
their share of responsibility in efforts to deal with the 
crisis, but it will never be enough. Humanitarian action 
will never compensate for the inability to address the 
root causes of forced migration.
It  is  important  to  take  a  longer-term  perspective. 
The  conflicts  that  we  are  now  facing  require  urgent 
humanitarian action, and yet the underlying causes are 
long  term.  Economic,  social  and  political  progress  is, 
therefore,  imperative.  The  international  community 
can  and  must  assist.  The  United  Nations,  for  its  part, 
can  help  to  defuse  latent  conflicts  through  conflict 
prevention,  mediation  and,  if  necessary,  preventive 
peace operations. However, the ultimate responsibility 
for redesigning societies lies with the peoples concerned 
and their Governments. Local ownership is the solution. 
For a number of years Finland and Turkey have led efforts 
to strengthen United Nations-based mediation. There is 
a  need  to  foster  closer  cooperation  between  different 
actors,  such  as  traditional  and  religious  leaders,  and 
to draw more participation from civil society. We are 
pleased  that  progress  is  being  made,  as  evidenced  by 
the adoption of the latest General Assembly resolution 
on mediation (resolution 70/304) just two weeks ago.
This  year  marks 
the  sixtieth  anniversary  of 
Finland’s participation in United Nations peacekeeping. 
Since  1956,  some  50,000  Finnish  men  and  women 
have  served  in  United  Nations  operations  around  the 
world. Finnish citizens continue to serve in the Middle 
East and elsewhere, and some of them have made the 
ultimate  sacrifice.  We  honour  the  work  of  those  men 
and women. 
Finland  is  committed  to  ongoing  efforts  aimed  at 
strengthening the various aspects of peace operations. 
We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  to  bring 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  into  the  twenty-first 
century. The Leaders’ Summit on Peacekeeping hosted 
by President Obama of the United States last year was 
a significant step in the right direction and needs to be 
continued. 
The  problem  of  the  illicit  flow  of  conventional 
weapons  persists,  but  finally  progress  has  been 
made — the Arms Trade Treaty has entered into force. 
However, two tasks remain — the Treaty needs to be 
adopted by all and implemented effectively. It has not 
been  ratified  by  many  of  the  Member  States  whose 
contributions are needed, and so I urge Members to join 
without delay.
those 
instruments,  which, 
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  a  year  ago  was  a  milestone,  as  was 
the  conclusion  of  the  Paris  Agreement  to  combat 
climate  change.  The  true  test,  however,  will  be  the 
implementation  of 
in 
Finland,  is  being  carried  out  in  an  inclusive  way.  We 
are  focusing  on  establishing  partnerships  among  the 
Government,  the  private  sector,  universities  and  civil 
society.  All  Finnish  citizens  are  encouraged  to  get 
involved. I have personally committed to reducing my 
carbon  footprint  by  half  over  a  decade  by  signing  up 
with the Global Citizens Climate Pledge initiative. The 
initiative was made global a couple of weeks ago in an 
event  hosted  by  the  Secretariat  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. A similar 
mechanism exists for inclusive participation in support 
of the 2030 Agenda.
Gender  equality  and  the  political,  economic  and 
social empowerment of girls and women are key drivers 
for sustainable development and for combating climate 
change. In my own country, gender equality has been 
vital in our rise from poverty to prosperity. I welcome 
all  efforts  that  raise  the  issue,  such  as  the  HeForShe 
movement  initiated  by  the  United  Nations  Entity  for 
Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women. I am 
personally involved in that important work. However, 
the United Nations and its Member States still have a 
long way to go to meet their target of gender equality.
The  next  Secretary-General  will  be  subject  to 
almost  colossal  expectations.  Finland  welcomes  a 
selection  process  that  is  more  transparent  and  more 
inclusive.  We  also  welcome  the  fact  that  there  are  so 
many female candidates interested in the position. 
We  too  have  a  message  for  the  incoming  United 
Nations leader. We would like to see the new Secretary-
General work closely together with, and, if necessary, 
sometimes  even  one  step  ahead  of,  the  Security 
Council  in  fulfilling  the  mandate  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations.  Another  challenge  is  to  improve 
the United Nation’s functions as an organization. The 
2/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
next  Secretary-General  can  do  that  by  ensuring  that 
the various United Nation activities complement each 
other, so that the United Nations truly delivers as one. 
Let  me  finish  by  assuring  the  Assembly  of 
Finland’s  full  support  for  the  incoming  Secretary-
General — whoever she or he may be.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Finland 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Sauli  Niinistö,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Finland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Robert Mugabe, President of the 
Republic of Zimbabwe
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe.
Mr.  Robert  Mugabe,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Zimbabwe, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Robert  Mugabe,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zimbabwe, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President Mugabe: Let me begin my congratulating 
you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  I  also  extend 
our deep appreciation to your immediate predecessor, 
Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, for his able stewardship of the 
seventieth session of the Assembly.
We  all  vividly  recall  the  momentous  occasion  in 
September  last  year  when  we  adopted  the  ambitious 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. This session 
of  the  General  Assembly  provides  us  with  a  unique 
opportunity to review the measures we have taken so 
far,  at  both  the  international  and  national  levels,  in 
line  with  our  commitments  to  global  socioeconomic 
transformation.  We  hope  that  this  time  around  this 
Agenda will meet a better fate.
We  are  encouraged  that  since  September  last 
year,  foundational  steps  have  been  and  are  being 
taken at various levels to implement the 2030 Agenda. 
In  this  regard,  we  note  the  convening  of  the  Global 
Infrastructure  Forum  in  April  2016,  the  convening  of 
the  Multi-stakeholder  Forum  on  Science,  Technology 
and Innovation for the Sustainable Development Goals 
in June, and the launch of the Technology Facilitation 
Mechanism  together  with  the  activation  of  its  online 
platform.  We  also  note 
the  follow-up  meetings 
pertaining  to  the  development  of  concrete  actions  for 
the implementation of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda 
on  financing  for  development.  These  activities  at  the 
global level have been equally matched at the national 
level,  with  virtually  all  Member  States  reporting 
making  preparations  for  the  implementation  of  this 
universal Agenda.
and  multi-stakeholder 
For  our  part,  I  am  happy  to  report  that  we  have 
established  national 
and 
multisectoral  structures  to  assimilate  and  implement 
the 2030 Agenda. We have done that in a coordinated 
and integrated manner, with our national development 
programme,  the  Zimbabwe  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Socio-Economic  Transformation.  Our 
of 
assimilating the 2030 Agenda has been made relatively 
less  challenging,  in  that  the  vision  and  aspirations  of 
our national economic blueprint and the global agenda 
are  basically  the  same.  Our  biggest  impediment  to 
the  achievement  of  the  2030  Agenda  is  the  burden  of 
punitive and heinous sanctions imposed against us by 
some hegemonic and neo-imperialist Powers among us 
here.
task 
My  country,  Zimbabwe,  is  the  innocent  victim  of 
the spiteful sanctions imposed by the United States and 
other Western Powers. These countries have maintained 
the sanctions on us for some 16 years now. As a country, 
we are being collectively punished for exercising the one 
primordial  principle  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations 
Charter, that of sovereign independence. We are being 
punished for doing what all other nations have done and 
still do, namely, possess and own their natural resources 
and attend to the basic interests of their people. Those 
who have imposed these sanctions would rather have us 
pander to their interests at the expense of the basic needs 
of the majority of our people. As long as these economic 
and  financial  sanctions  remain  in  place,  Zimbabwe’s 
capacity  to  fully  and  effectively  implement  the  2030 
Agenda will be deeply curtailed. I repeat my call on the 
United  Kingdom,  Europe,  the  United  States  and  their 
allies to lift the illegal and unjustified sanctions against 
my country and its people. Let us all be bound by our 
commitments to the 2030 Agenda, in which we agreed 
to eschew sanctions in favour of dialogue.
The General Assembly will elect the next Secretary-
General of our Organization at the current session. We 
16-29421
3/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
have witnessed commendable efforts aimed at making 
the  selection  process  of  the  next  Secretary-General 
inclusive  and  transparent.  The  greater  involvement  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  therefore  of  the  majority 
of  our  membership  does  not,  however,  mask  the 
opaqueness of the process at the Security Council level. 
We  expect  the  current  experience  to  lead  to  a  more 
inclusive and transparent process in the future.
For  over  20  years,  many  of  us  have  come  to  this 
rostrum, demanding and pleading for the reform of the 
Security Council. We are no closer to achieving that goal 
today than we were 20 years ago. This is so, in spite of the 
universal acknowledgement of the injustice, unfairness 
and inappropriateness of the current composition of the 
Council. We now have an opportunity in the ongoing 
intergovernmental  negotiations  to  redress  this  unjust 
and  unjustifiable  situation  in  the  interest  of  a  strong 
and more united Organization capable of delivering on 
its mandate.
Our common commitment to leaving no one behind 
demands  that  we  address  the  plight  of  people  still 
living under colonialism and occupation. The people of 
Palestine have lived under occupation and persecution 
for over 49 years. It is high time that the United Nations, 
in particular the Security Council, fulfilled its Charter 
duties and obligations by implementing its resolutions, 
which  include  General  Assembly  resolution  181  (II) 
and  Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338 
(1973).  The  two-State  solution,  based  on  the  pre-June 
1967  borders,  should  now  be  pursued  within  those 
parameters  and  timelines.  This  is  the  only  way  to 
achieve durable peace in the Middle East.
On our own continent, the United Nations is duty-
bound  by  Charter  principle  to  redouble  its  efforts 
to  ensure  the  full  realization  of  the  right  of  self-
determination  of  the  people  of  Western  Sahara.  The 
2030 Agenda recognizes that sustainable development 
cannot  be  achieved  without  the  full  realization  of  the 
right  of  the  peoples  living  under  colonial  and  foreign 
occupation.  We  urge  the  holding  of  the  independence 
referendum  for  the  Sahrawi  people  without  much 
further delay.
I would like to conclude by thanking the Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  the  tremendous  work 
he  has  done  during  his  tenure.  We  have  appreciated 
his  presence  at  African  Union  summits  and  his  visits 
to  Africa  as  a  clear  testimony  to  his  commitment  to 
and partnership with Africa in advancing the cause of 
freedom, development and peace — and the security of 
our  continent.  We  particularly  applaud  the  Secretary-
General’s  leadership  in  mobilizing  the  entire  United 
Nations system and indeed the international community 
to partner with Africa in stopping and rolling back the 
Ebola epidemic, which claimed thousands of lives and 
undermined  Africa’s  socioeconomic  development.  He 
has  indeed  been  an  indefatigable  advocate  for  self-
determination  and  a  persistent  champion  of  inclusive 
development, peace and coalition-building for dealing 
with humanitarian and other crises. We wish him well 
in all his future endeavours, and I am sure that many of 
us will miss him, especially we of Africa.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Zimbabwe for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Robert  Mugabe,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Zimbabwe,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Ms. Michelle Bachelet Jeria, President 
of the Republic of Chile
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Chile.
Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Chile,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of 
the Republic of Chile, and to invite her to address the 
Assembly.
President  Bachelet  Jeria  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 
are living in times that show us the necessity of shifting 
our perspective with regard to addressing development. 
Our world is in the midst of a crisis that extends back 
years,  and  which,  far  from  being  resolved,  has  only 
worsened, generating criticism of political institutions 
that do not seem capable of representing their citizens. 
At the same time, economic growth has given way to a 
global slowdown and has not been able to provide the 
world’s population with the well-being that it seeks.
It would appear that the far-reaching dynamics that 
caused the crisis some years ago were not superseded 
but merely superficially retouched. But citizens today 
are  more  aware  and  empowered.  Thanks  to  new 
technology, they have new means of expression. They 
4/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
are showing us that in their daily lives, at their places 
of work, at their children’s schools, in the health of their 
families, in the security of their cities, in the pensions 
of their mothers and fathers and in the relations between 
men  and  women,  the  negative  effects  of  inequitable 
development are still being felt. This is the main basis 
for the citizen discontent that we have seen in various 
parts of the world.
At the same time, we are facing an unprecedented 
environmental  crisis  that  threatens  life  on  earth,  has 
medical, clinical, economic, climatic and environmental 
impacts and mostly affects the most vulnerable. These 
are combined with violence and armed conflict in many 
parts of the world, which increase precariousness and 
exponentially  expand  forced  displacement  and  major 
migratory movements.
Citizen 
is 
the 
discontent 
expression 
of 
disillusionment  about  the  promised  development  that 
they  desire  and  for  which  they  have  fought  valiantly 
but which is still beyond their reach. We are witnessing 
a  growing  schism  between  the  representatives  and 
the  represented.  There  is  a  lack  of  trust  in  national 
Governments  as  well  as  in  multilateral  forums.  They 
appear not to be tackling the priorities of the common 
citizen in a timely manner or with the required depth. 
Now is not the time for taking the easy but ultimately 
destructive  route  of  populism.  Now  is  the  time  for 
action inspired by an ethically motivated and civically 
oriented pragmatism.
The  Sustainable  Development  Goals  that  we  are 
committed to achieving by 2030 demonstrate that the 
international community knows that it must embark on 
far-reaching changes and implement them with concrete 
measures. Now we must summon up the political will in 
multilateral forums and in each of our countries. There 
is inertia to be overcome and there are interests to be 
dealt  with.  The  political  and  development  crisis  that 
we are facing has global dynamics. Nobody, no nation 
or social group can do it alone. We need to engage in 
multilateral dialogues at the regional and global levels, 
assuming  realistic  but  demanding  commitments.  I 
insist that we must act now. At home, the citizens are 
waiting for us, asking us to transmit their demands and 
return with decisions and determination. I hope that we 
can do that.
Chile  is  a  mid-sized  country  that  is  not  yet  fully 
developed. However, its rapid modernization in recent 
decades  has  placed  us  squarely  at  the  frontier  of  the 
challenges of modernity, with the tensions inherent in 
democracy and economic growth. I am speaking at this 
rostrum  today  having  had  this  experience.  I  am  also 
speaking  from  experience  of  having  embarked  on  the 
changes  requested  by  the  citizens  of  my  homeland.  I 
know how difficult it is to make changes, but I also know 
the hope of seeing a new horizon gradually emerge. This 
is the course on which we have embarked as a nation, 
but also as a part of the international community.
At  the  regional  and  international  levels,  our 
country  has  advocated  convergence 
in  diversity 
in  Latin  America,  seeking  a  common  agenda  that, 
despite  our  differences,  gives  us  strength  as  a  bloc 
and  as  a  region.  And  we  have  made  progress.  We 
are  working  on  integration  with  Mexico,  Colombia 
and  Peru  in  the  Pacific  Alliance,  which  already  has 
49  observer  States  and  which  is  growing  stronger 
decisively  and  pragmatically.  Today,  two  integration 
mechanisms — the Pacific Alliance and the Southern 
Common  Market  —  are  aiming  to  promote  a  better 
Latin America, strengthening cooperation and making 
clear  that  national  development  and  international 
relations cannot be seen as separate subjects.
In Latin America there are significant differences, 
but  we  are  working  together  in  spite  of  them  to  meet 
the  new  challenges.  We  are  doing  that  within  the 
Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, 
where  33  member  States  are  seeking  to  confront  the 
new  political,  social  and  economic  environment.  In 
addition, within the Union of South American Nations, 
South American countries consult each other to address 
common political problems.
Our nation’s principles are immutable and include 
a  call  to  peace,  democracy  and  respect  for  human 
rights,  respect  for  international  law  and  the  treaties, 
sovereignty  and  the  obligation  to  cooperate.  The 
promotion  and  protection  of  democracy  and  human 
rights at the international level are not contrary to the 
principle  of  non-intervention.  In  fact,  today  that  is  a 
global achievement.
I  believe  that  Colombia  has  given  us  one  of  the 
greatest  pieces  of  news  this  year.  At  the  regional  and 
international  levels,  there  is  hope  for  peace.  Next 
Monday, the agreement to end the hostilities of a civil 
war  that  has  been  raging  for  more  than  50  years  will 
be  signed.  Chile,  a  country  that  also  had  a  difficult 
transition 
to  continue 
supporting its Latin American brother in handling its 
to  democracy,  would 
like 
16-29421
5/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
post-conflict  situation,  including  with  military  and 
police observers in the United Nations political mission, 
working with it in solidarity as we have done in other 
brother countries such as Haiti.
and 
We  have  committed  to  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development 
the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  Similarly,  we  signed  the  Paris 
Agreement — the most ambitious and robust agreement 
in  the  history  of  multilateral  negotiations  on  climate 
change. Together with Monaco and France, we proposed 
the Because the Ocean Declaration to stress the need to 
pay special attention to the way in which environmental 
degradation affects ocean waters. It has been signed by 
more than 30 countries.
Protecting  the  oceans  is  vital  for  our  common 
future,  and  today  they  are  under  threat.  Chile  has 
therefore decided to take action by creating the Nazca-
Desventuradas Marine Park, which is the largest of its 
kind in Latin America. We are also engaged in a South-
South cooperation project to assist Caribbean countries 
in combating marine pollution.
Outside  of  this  building  and  in  the  most  diverse 
corners of the world, people, their leaders, civil society 
and  the  media  are  expecting  the  States  Members  of 
this Organization to provide cooperative, creative and 
tangible responses to the problems of the twenty-first 
century. That is why I raise my voice again in favour 
of  Security  Council  reform  to  reflect  today’s  new 
realities.  I  raise  my  voice  in  favour  of  an  effective 
management of the United Nations and greater openness 
in  its  procedures,  including  the  election  of  its  new 
Secretary-General.  I  ask  him  or  her  to  be  committed 
to  the  principles  that  serve  the  people  who  founded 
the Organization. We know that successfully meeting 
challenges requires joint, consensual efforts. We need 
more  multilateralism,  cooperation  and  dialogue.  This 
is  an  irreplaceable  forum  for  debate  and  adoption  of 
agreements. It is a platform for coordinated action.
Ms.  Kasese-Bota  (Zambia),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Chile is a country open to the world, which promotes 
clear-cut rules and political and economic agreements 
in  order  to  move  forward.  The  United  Nations  must 
play  its  role  as  a  place  of  consensus  in  opposition  to 
inequality  and  the  discrimination  against  religious, 
ethnic and gender minorities, a place to which the most 
vulnerable may turn. Let us make the United Nations 
the Organization that our peoples need and call for.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Chile for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of  the 
Republic of Chile, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hage Geingob, President of the 
Republic of Namibia
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Namibia.
Mr.  Hage  Geingob,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Namibia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Hage Geingob, President of 
the Republic of Namibia, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
into 
President  Geingob:  Let  me  congratulate  the 
President  on  his  election  to  preside  over  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  He  hails  from 
a  country  that  is  held  in  high  esteem  and  greatly 
respected  by  the  Namibian  people.  Namibia  is  a 
child  of  international  solidarity  and  was  midwifed 
by  the  United  Nations.  Fiji  was  one  of  the  countries 
that  contributed  peacekeepers  to  the  United  Nations 
Transition  Assistance  Group  in  Namibia.  Given  his 
background, we are confident that this session will be 
a complete success.
The President rightly emphasized in his acceptance 
speech (see A/70/PV.103) that the main purpose of the 
seventy-first  session  would  be  to  achieve  momentum 
on  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
Such momentum is evidenced by the choice of theme 
of  the  session,  “The  Sustainable  Development  Goals: 
a  universal  push  to  transform  our  world”.  Namibia 
joins  the  President  in  reiterating  the  fact  that  the 
implementation of this Agenda is imperative if we are 
to safeguard a secure world for future generations.
As the Secretary-General has said in his report on 
the work of the United Nations (A/71/1), the people of 
the world have implored the United Nations to do more 
now — in more spheres of activity, in more locations, 
in more challenging circumstances — than at any other 
point in the history of the Organization. The Secretary-
the  Organization  and 
General’s  commitment 
to 
6/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
concern  about  the  present  issues  affecting  the  world 
have impressed me. He indicated that he has fought to 
leave the Organization better prepared for the immense 
challenges  ahead  and  capable  of  serving  its  entire 
membership  and  “we  the  peoples”  in  every  corner 
of  the  world.  He  has  raised  the  bar,  and,  indeed,  the 
onus is now on us to carry the mantle of humanitarian 
excellence to even greater heights.
In September last year, we committed ourselves to 
a new Agenda for Sustainable Development. We are all 
in agreement that the effective implementation of that 
Agenda  will  require  coherence  and  complementarity 
among global, continental, regional, national and local 
efforts,  as  stated  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report. 
We  are  confident  that  we  will  join  the  global  drive 
to  ensure  a  life  of  dignity  for  all.  We  will  spare  no 
effort in  working  to  free our fellow men, women and 
children from the abject and dehumanizing conditions 
of extreme poverty.
Namibia  agrees  with  the  notion  that  the  Agenda, 
successor to the Millennium Development Goals, will 
need to fully integrate economic growth, social justice 
and environmental stewardship. In terms of economic 
growth, we need to talk about inclusive growth that will 
translate into the creation of decent jobs opportunities 
for  our  citizens.  In  other  words,  we  must  do  more  to 
move away from the current jobless growth model that 
prevails in many of our member countries. We should 
therefore aim to grow our economy in a sustainable and 
inclusive manner in order to ensure that we effectively 
tackle the scourge of poverty.
As  a  consequence  of  the  slowdown  in  the  global 
economic  cycle  and  a  drop  in  commodity  prices,  the 
Namibian  economy  is  experiencing  a  downturn  this 
year, following robust growth averaging more than 5 per 
cent during the previous five years. We are mindful that, 
in order to make a meaningful dent in poverty, we need 
to grow at a higher level. We remain optimistic about 
the  long-term  outlook  for  Namibia,  as  key  economic 
fundamentals,  including  fiscal  and  external  current 
account  sustainability,  remain  intact.  A  testament  to 
this  is  the  fact  that  the  Fitch  Ratings  agency  recently 
affirmed Namibia’s international default rate at BBB-, 
with bond issuance in the South African and Namibian 
markets at AA+, although the longer-term outlook was 
revised from stable to negative.
The  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Namibia 
remains  committed  to  managing  the  economy  in 
a  prudent  and  responsible  manner  and  has  already 
instituted  expenditure,  revenue  and  structural  reform 
measures to address concerns raised by rating agencies 
about the long-term outlook of our country We would 
like  to  assure  all  our  partners  that  there  is  no  risk  of 
Namibia not honouring its debt obligations in the near 
and  medium  terms.  In  fact,  we  remain  bullish  about 
the country’s economic outlook. Moreover, we remain 
committed to creating conditions in Namibia that will 
enable the full participation of the private sector in the 
economy.  The  Government  alone  cannot  shoulder  the 
burden  of  extending  development  to  all.  The  private 
sector has a crucial role to play in stimulating economic 
growth and job creation in our country.
Regarding  social  justice,  we  are  all  concerned  by 
the  fact  that  we  are  witnessing  the  highest  levels  of 
forced  displacement  of  people  since  the  founding  of 
this  Organization.  The  current  refugee  crisis  needs 
our immediate attention and our collective action. As 
the  Secretary-General  says  in  his  report  (A/71/1),  global 
solidarity is needed for us to effectively respond to the needs 
of our fellow human beings. We need to determine the basic 
factors that cause people to flee in such large numbers so that 
we can tackle the root causes, rather than the symptoms, of 
this evil. Our belief is that no one must feel left out, for we 
are aware that inclusivity spells peace, while exclusivity spells 
war.
Earlier  this  morning  we  attended  the  high-level  event 
on the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change.  Namibia  welcomes  this  development,  and  we  are 
happy  to  announce  that  we  have  ratified  the  Agreement, 
which  represents  a  milestone  in  our  endeavours  to  fight 
the  devastating  effects  of  climate  change.  Climate  change 
is a global problem and requires a global response from all 
of us, in both developed and developing countries. In this 
regard,  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change and the Sendai Declaration on disaster risk 
reduction  remain  the  central  multilateral  frameworks  for 
cooperative  action  for  addressing  climate-change-induced 
disaster risks, such as drought.
Namibia  is  one  of  the  driest  countries  in  the  world. 
Consequently,  we  have  undertaken  ambitious  domestic 
action  on  climate  change, 
including  mitigation  and 
adaptation, to surmount the losses and damages arising from 
climate-change-induced natural disasters. At the same time, 
we are developing renewable energy resources, such as solar, 
wind and hydroelectricity power. In tackling this crisis, the 
principle of common yet differentiated responsibility must 
be upheld.
16-29421
7/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
Furthermore, the activation of the Green Climate Fund 
is  a  welcome  and  timely  development.  This  accords  us  an 
opportunity  to  decentralize  the  operations  of  the  Fund. 
In this context, I wish to announce Namibia’s offer to host 
the African regional hub of the Green Climate Fund at the 
appropriate  time.  As  members  may  recall,  Namibia  came 
in  second  to  South  Korea  in  the  bid  to  host  the  world 
headquarters of the Green Climate Fund. As a consolation 
prize, we would therefore be honoured to host the African 
regional hub of the Green Climate Fund. Namibia counts on 
the support of Member States.
Namibia believes that the United Nations remains 
the centre for the consolidation of international rule of 
law. Therefore, the United Nations system should serve as a 
banner of transparency and accountability. For Governments 
and organizations such as the United Nations to regain the 
trust of people who have lost trust in global leadership over 
the years, inclusivity and transparency must be placed at the 
forefront of governance; for transparency plus accountability 
equals trust.
Reforming the Security Council is therefore paramount. 
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  cannot  be  reduced  to 
the aspirations of a few countries. The Security Council is 
too important an organ to be left to the interests of a few. 
Hence we reiterate our call for the comprehensive reform of 
the  Security  Council,  thereby  making  it  more  democratic 
and  transparent  so  as  to  better  serve  humanity.  Namibia 
remains fully committed to the Common African Position 
on  the  proposed  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  We  are  of 
the  opinion  that  the  Security  Council  should  reflect  the 
broad membership of our Organization. Fairness and justice 
warrant that Africa be part of the equation.
As a nation that emerged from a long, bitter and bloody 
struggle for independence and has since enjoyed 26 years of 
freedom, Namibia sympathizes with those who are not yet 
independent and who are denied their basic human rights. 
Accordingly,  Namibia  calls  for  the  full  implementation  of 
all  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions  on  Palestine.  The 
international  community  must  fulfil  its  obligations  and 
assist the people of Palestine in realizing their basic right to 
independence  and  self-determination.  Their  freedom  and 
independence  cannot  be  denied  forever  —  it  can  only  be 
delayed. Let history be our best teacher.
Namibia recognizes and acknowledges the role played 
by  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  in  helping  us  attain  our 
independence. I can proudly say that the people of Morocco 
are our brothers and sisters, which was affirmed during my 
two-day visit to that country. We are a nation that believes in 
being an enemy to none and a friend to all, and we also believe 
in a world where no one should feel left out. Unfortunately, 
our brothers and sisters in Western Sahara do feel left out.
We therefore hope that the people of Western Sahara will 
soon enjoy the freedom that the Kingdom of Morocco helped 
Namibia to attain. It is in this regard that we call for the full 
implementation  of  resolutions  calling  for  a  referendum  in 
occupied Western Sahara, so that the people there can freely 
express themselves as to whether they opt for independence 
or unification with Morocco and so that the disagreement 
between brothers and sisters can come to an amicable end.
Namibia  remains  confident  that  despite  the  fact  that 
humankind faces some of the most unprecedented challenges 
in its history, under the United Nations we can live up to the 
promise of ensuring a life of dignity for all. Let us not lose 
heart, for Saint Teresa of Calcutta once said: “If we have no 
peace, it is because we have forgotten that we belong to each 
other.” Let us therefore realize that our differences should not 
draw us further from one another, but, rather, nearer to each 
other. Let us celebrate unity in diversity.
Together as people who realize that we belong to each 
other, we can bring about change in this world through this 
indispensable institution — the United Nations. It is time to 
usher in a new era of humanity, characterized by peace, unity 
and dignity for all the world’s citizens.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Namibia for the statement just made.
Mr.  Hage  Geingob,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Namibia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Li Keqiang, Premier of the 
State Council of the People’s Republic of China
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Premier of the State Council of 
the People’s Republic of China.
Mr.  Li  Keqiang,  Premier  of  the  State  Council  of 
the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Li Keqiang, Premier of 
8/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
the  State  Council  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Li Keqiang (China) (spoke in Chinese): I wish 
to  congratulate  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  on  his  election  as 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
first  session.  I  believe  that  under  his  presidency,  this 
session will make good progress on its agenda. I also 
wish to express appreciation for the effective work of 
Mr.  Lykketoft,  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its seventieth session. I also would like to pay tribute 
to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  who  has  with 
modesty  and  a  drive  for  harmony  and  inclusiveness 
worked  diligently  and  in  a  down-to-earth  manner 
over the past decade and whose work has contributed 
significantly  to  world  peace,  sustainable  development 
and  the  advancement  and  protection  of  human  rights 
around the world.
In  2015,  the  United  Nations  held  a  summit  to 
consider 
the  post-2015  development  agenda  and 
adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
which has offered a new vision for global development. 
At the summit, China’s President Xi Jinping delivered 
a  speech  (see  A/70/PV.7)  entitled,  “Towards  win-win 
partnerships  for  sustainable  development”,  in  which 
he expounded on China’s principles and positions. The 
year  2016  is  the  first  year  for  the  implementation  of 
that Agenda.
The  general  debate  at  the  seventy-first  session 
focuses  on  “The  Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a 
universal  push  to  transform  our  world”,  a  theme  that 
could not be more relevant. On behalf of the Chinese 
Government, I would like to state today that China has 
taken  action  to  advance  the  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, and it has been one of the first States to 
submit  its  national  plan  on  the  implementation  of  the 
2030 Agenda to the United Nations.
Sustainable  development  concerns  development 
first  and  foremost,  and  development  underpins  every 
human achievement. Without development, nothing is 
sustainable. The lack of development is often at the root 
of many of the world’s problems — poverty, the refugee 
crisis, war, conflicts or terrorism. All of these could be 
attributed to insufficient development, and none of them 
can  be  satisfactorily  resolved  without  development. 
Only development can guarantee people’s fundamental 
rights and interests. Only development can root out the 
causes  for  global  challenges.  Only  development  can 
promote human civilization and progress.
Of course, development must be sustainable in all 
its dimensions. Otherwise, development, and especially 
growth, will stall. Growth will stall and be held back. 
Development cannot be sustainable if it is unbalanced 
and  unequal  and  widens  the  gap  between  the  North 
and  the  South,  and  between  the  rich  and  the  poor. 
Development  cannot  be  sustainable  if  it  is  expensive, 
if it is driven by high consumption with high pollution 
and high carbon emissions, or if it depletes resources 
and  strains  the  environment.  Development  cannot  be 
sustainable if economic growth and social progress are 
not  well  coordinated.  Only  when  we  have  a  profound 
understanding  of  the  implications  of  sustainability, 
make progress in poverty reduction at all levels, engage 
in North-South and South-South cooperation, adapt to 
climate change, and promote equal sharing and green 
development can we ensure that development will hold 
its ground and be sustainable.
Sustainable  development  must  be  inclusive  and 
interconnected. Currently, the sustainable development 
endeavour  is  faced  with  great  challenges.  Regional 
conflicts  and  hotspots  are  without  end.  Traditional 
and  non-traditional  security  threats  intertwine,  and 
the environment for sustainable development gives no 
reason for optimism. World economic recovery remains 
lukewarm,  and  globalization  faces  strong  headwinds. 
The  momentum  for  sustainable  development  is  weak. 
There are frequent outbreaks of major infectious diseases 
and the eruption of natural disasters. Other issues to be 
faced  are  energy  and  resource  security,  food  security 
and  financial  security.  As  those  elements  become 
intertwined, 
sustainable  development  necessarily 
faces an uphill battle. Such difficult moments call for 
greater confidence.
Humankind has the wisdom and the ability to find 
a way out. For that to happen, there must be cooperation 
and a spirit of working together to overcome difficulties. 
It  is  time  that  the  international  community  assumes 
a  new  perspective,  sees  itself  as  a  community  with  a 
shared  future  and  interconnected  interests  and  makes 
concerted efforts to tackle global challenges.
For  sustainable  development  to  evolve,  we  must 
keep  both  short-term  and  long-term  interests  in  mind 
while  making  concrete  efforts  to  tackle  challenges, 
actively transform and change our world, and achieve 
our new vision. We are ready to and must uphold the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. Without peace and stability, there will be no 
16-29421
9/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
sustainable  development;  even  the  development  gains 
already attained risk being lost.
The  hard-won  peace  that  has  prevailed  over  the 
past  70  or  more  years  testifies  to  the  effectiveness  of 
the international order and the norms of international 
relations  based  on  the  United  Nations  Charter.  These 
norms  and  this  order  must  be  resolutely  upheld  since 
they not only serve the common interests of the people 
of  all  countries  but  also  provide  the  most  essential 
guarantee for achieving sustainable development.
All  countries  need  to  observe  and  effectively 
implement the purposes and principles of the Charter, 
support  the  leading  role  of  the  United  Nations  and 
the  Security  Council  in  global  affairs,  and  support 
the  reform  and  improvement  of  global  governance 
mechanisms to reflect the changes in the international, 
political  and  economic  landscape.  A  new  concept  of 
common,  comprehensive,  cooperative  and  sustainable 
security should be nurtured. A global partnership that 
features dialogue instead of confrontation, and mutual, 
win-win benefits should be established.
We  must  pursue  political  solutions  to  hotspot 
issues. Political solutions are the fundamental way out. 
History has repeatedly shown that to repress violence 
with  force  can  only  lead  to  more  hatred  and  warfare 
from which no winner will emerge. Parties involved in 
conflicts  must  renounce  a  zero-sum  mentality,  settle 
disputes through dialogue, address differences through 
consultation  and  seek  reconciliation  with  tolerance. 
The mediation efforts of the international community 
must  be  fair  and  impartial;  they  should  facilitate  the 
settlement of issues, not invite new problems.
On 
On Syria, we must remain committed to a political 
solution. The international community should encourage 
all  relevant  parties  in  Syria  to  end  the  fighting  at  an 
early date and reach a comprehensive political solution.
should 
remain  committed  to  the  denuclearization  of  the 
Korean  peninsula,  uphold  peace  and  stability  on 
the  peninsula  and  seek  consultation  and  dialogue 
so  as 
international 
nuclear-non-proliferation regime.
to  effectively  maintain 
the  Korean  nuclear 
issue,  we 
the 
Terrorism is the common enemy of humankind and 
must be combatted resolutely. At the same time, double 
standards should not be applied, nor should terrorism 
be linked with particular countries, races or religions.
We must work together for the safe, steady recovery 
of the world economy, which cannot afford to maintain 
the  long-term  sluggishness  we  see  now.  Otherwise, 
sustainable  development  will  be  a  fountain  without  a 
source. The current world economy is faced with both 
insufficient aggregate demand and prominent structural 
contradictions.  We  need  to  employ  various  kinds  of 
effective  policy  instruments  in  a  holistic  manner, 
combine demand management with supply-side reform, 
and balance short-term policies with long-term ones.
We call on all countries to make concerted efforts 
to  drive  the  global  economy  along  a  road  of  strong, 
sustainable,  balanced  and  inclusive  growth.  Given 
their  significant  influence,  major  economies  need  to 
act  responsibly  in  policymaking,  particularly  when 
coordinating macroeconomic policies. While focusing 
on their own growth, they also need to strive to reduce 
negative  spillover  and  refrain  from  adding  to  the 
weakness of the global economic recovery.
Economic 
represented 
globalization, 
by 
liberalization in and facilitation of trade and investment, 
has been a significant driving force behind rapid global 
growth  in  past  decades,  but  it  is  no  panacea  to  the 
ills  of  the  world.  Frankly,  globalization  has  to  some 
degree taken its toll on industries and communities in 
certain countries. Active measures need to be taken to 
address the problem, but it is always important to keep 
in mind the bigger picture, instead of focusing only on 
narrower interests.
Globalization is consistent with the long-term and 
fundamental interests of all countries. It is the trend of 
the times. Countries need to firmly oppose protectionism 
in all its forms, resolutely uphold the free-trade regime 
represented  by  the  World  Trade  Organization  and 
promote sustained and sound economic growth for all 
countries through win-win and all-win cooperation. We 
must exert ourselves to address global challenges facing 
humankind. Greater attention and more support need to 
be  given  to  Africa  and  the  least  developed  countries 
to  help  them  speed  up  industrialization,  ensure  food 
security and eliminate poverty and hunger so that more 
people can lead a life of decency and dignity.
More  needs  to  be  done  to  create  an  international 
environment that helps reduce inequality and imbalance 
in global development. International institutions should 
spend  their  new  resources  on  helping  developing 
countries  on  a  priority  basis.  Developed  countries 
should  make  good  on  their  official  development 
10/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
assistance  commitments,  while  developing  countries 
need to pursue self-development and find paths suited 
to their national conditions.
of  economic  growth  and  move  to  a  medium-high 
level of development. China will continue to promote 
development through deepening reform.
As we speak, the world is facing the largest refugee 
crisis since the Second World War. It is imperative to 
ensure refugee access to basic living conditions in order 
to  stave  off  humanitarian  crises.  It  is  of  fundamental 
importance  to  root  out  the  causes  of  war  and  renew 
development  so  that  countries  of  origin  of  refugees 
can embark on a path of enduring peace, development 
and prosperity.
Countries need to stay committed to the principles 
of  common  but  differentiated  responsibilities,  equity 
and  respective  capabilities.  They  also  need  to  jointly 
tackle climate change and work for the Paris Agreement 
to  be  universally  accepted  and  take  effect  at  an  early 
date. Developed countries need to play a leading role, 
deliver  on  their  emissions-reduction  pledges  and  help 
developing countries improve their capacity to mitigate 
and adapt to climate change.
Since  China  adopted  its  reform  and  opening-up 
policy,  the  Chinese  economy  has  maintained  rapid 
growth, becoming the world’s second-largest economy 
in  2010.  In  2014,  China’s  gross  domestic  product 
reached $10 trillion. In recent years, despite a greater 
basis  of  measurement  for  development,  overall  global 
complexity and long-accumulated underlying domestic 
issues,  China  has  relied  on  reform  and  innovation  to 
maintain  a  medium-high  growth  rate  and  promoted 
economic transformation and upgrading.
In the first half of this year, our growth rate was 
6.7 per cent, which was among the fastest in the major 
economies. Over 13 million new urban jobs are added 
annually.  In  other  words,  in  the  first  eight  months  of 
this  year,  9.5  million  new  urban  jobs  were  created. 
Every  percentage  point  of  growth  now  equals  several 
percentage  points  of  growth  in  previous  years,  and 
the  yearly  economic  increment  is  tantamount  to  the 
economic  aggregate  of  a  middle-income  country. 
China’s effective management of its own affairs has been 
its greatest contribution to the world. Its contribution to 
global economic growth has been around 30 per cent.
However, we remain sober about our achievements 
and believe that China remains a developing country; 
there  is  still  a  long  way  to  go  before  China  achieves 
modernization.  We  will  continue  to  give  priority  to 
development  and  pursue  comprehensive  social  and 
economic  growth,  maintain  a  medium-high  speed 
the  key 
Reform  has  held 
to  our  previous 
achievements in development, and the same will hold 
true  for  the  future.  We  will  promote  development 
through  expanding  our  opening-up  policy.  China’s 
experience  in  past  decades  proves  that  a  closed-door 
policy only leads to stagnation and backwardness, and 
it is opening up that brings development and prosperity. 
With  a  firm  commitment  to  the  win-win  strategy  of 
opening up, China will open its door even wider to the 
outside world.
China  will  promote  development  by  upholding 
peace. The prolonged sufferings of war have made the 
Chinese  people  cherish  peace  more  than  ever.  As  a 
dedicated follower of the path of peaceful development, 
China will pursue friendship and cooperation with all 
countries on the basis of the five principles of peaceful 
coexistence.  We  uphold  a  mutual  respect  among  all 
countries, regardless of their size.
China  also  believes  in  working  through  dialogue, 
negotiation  and  friendly  consultation 
to  address 
various differences and issues, including disputes over 
territory and maritime rights and interests. We need to 
expand common ground, shelve differences and make 
continuous efforts for regional peace and stability.
China  has  always  worked  for 
the  peaceful 
settlement  of  hotspot  issues.  On  the  occasion  of  this 
year’s  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  China  has 
clearly indicated that it will provide $300 million worth 
of  humanitarian  assistance  to  relevant  countries  and 
international  organizations.  Additionally,  China  will 
provide assistance on all fronts to the underdeveloped 
and least developed countries.
China  is  a  developing  country  with  a  population 
of  1.3  billion.  We  need  to  run  our  own  affairs 
effectively while working to fulfil our due international 
responsibilities.  By  the  end  of  2015,  China  had 
contributed a total of over ¥400 billion to 166 countries 
and 
international  and  regional  organizations  and 
provided training in various sectors to over 12 million 
professionals  from  other  developing  countries.  Going 
forward, China will strengthen cooperation with other 
developing  countries  and  do  whatever  it  can  to  help 
African countries and the least developing countries.
16-29421
11/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
China  will  only  increase,  not  reduce,  its  support 
and assistance to other countries only as our economy 
grows.  We  stand  ready  to  work  with  all  countries  to 
achieve  common  development  and  prosperity  and  to 
support  sustainable  development  and  international 
cooperation  in  relevant  fields.  By  2020,  China  will 
increase its total annual contributions to United Nations 
development  agencies  by  $100  million  over  its  2015 
contribution  level.  China  is  a  country  that  backs  its 
words with action. We will translate our commitments 
into real actions.
Achieving the goals for sustainable development is 
our  shared  task.  Transforming  our  world  and  making 
it a better place is the common aspiration of all of us. 
China  stands  ready  to  work  with  other  members  of 
the  international  community,  and  make  appropriate 
contributions to building a world free from want where 
development and dignity are ensured for all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Premier  of  the  State 
Council  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Li Keqiang, Premier of the State Council of the 
People’s Republic of China, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Juan Manuel Santos Calderón, 
President of the Republic of Colombia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Colombia.
Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos 
Calderón, President of the Republic of Colombia, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Santos Calderón (spoke in Spanish): In 
1981,  today’s  date,  21  September,  was  proclaimed  as 
the International Day of Peace to promote a negotiated 
solution to armed conflicts throughout the world. Since 
1982, one year later, Colombia has been on a long and 
difficult road to leave violence behind and attain peace. 
My predecessors pursued peace for Colombians, each 
in his own way. This is a task that I undertook on the 
first day of my Government in August 2010.
I have come to speak to members of the Assembly 
on seven occasions on the progress and expectations of 
the peace process between the Government of Colombia 
and the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia 
(FARC) guerrilla group — the largest and oldest such 
group on the American continent. A year ago, standing 
here  before  the  Assembly  (see  A/70/PV.16),  I  said 
that I expected to return in 2016 as the President of a 
Colombia in peace — a reconciled Colombia.
After  more  than  half  a  century  of  internal  armed 
conflict,  I  return  to  the  United  Nations  today,  on  the 
International  Day  of  Peace,  to  announce,  with  all 
the  strength  of  my  voice  and  heart,  that  the  war  in 
Colombia  has  ended.  On  24  August  in  Havana,  the 
negotiators declared that all provisions were complete 
and adopted the final text of the General Agreement for 
the Termination of the Conflict and the Construction of 
a Stable and Lasting Peace. Five days later, a bilateral 
and definitive ceasefire and cessation of hostilities took 
place. As a result, since then there has not been a single 
death,  a  single  wound  or  a  single  bullet  fired  in  the 
conflict with FARC.
The  Agreement  will  be  officially  signed 
in 
Cartagena  de  Indias  on  26  September.  The  people 
of  Colombia  will  approve  it  through  a  plebiscite  on 
2  October.  From  that  moment  forward,  the  former 
members  of  the  guerrilla  group  will  go  to  different 
cantonment areas to begin surrendering their arms to 
the  United  Nations  within  a  six-month  period,  and  to 
begin their reintegration into society.
Their weapons will be melted and will be made into 
three  monuments  to  peace  —  one  here  in  New  York; 
one in Cuba, where the peace negotiations took place; 
and  another  one  in  Colombia.  These  monuments  will 
remind  us  that  the  bullets  are  behind  us  and  that  the 
construction  of  a  new  and  better  country  has  begun. 
Joyfully,  I  reiterate  that  the  last  and  oldest  armed 
conflict in the western hemisphere has come to an end. 
The Americas — the two vast American continents with 
all  of  their  islands,  from  Patagonia  to  Alaska  —  are 
now a region of peace.
The  Agreement  that  was  reached  after  almost 
six  years  of  public  conversations  is  the  best  news  for 
Colombia, Latin America and the world. What does the 
Agreement mean? Above all, it means that FARC will 
cease to exist as an armed group and reintegrate into 
12/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
society, and can become a political movement within our 
democracy. We have agreed on measures to guarantee 
its political participation, offer more assurances to the 
opposition and strengthen democracy and the electoral 
system in Colombia.
We have also outlined programmes to improve the 
quality of life of rural inhabitants, who have been the 
most affected by the conflict, and to make land available 
to those who do not have it or who lost it because of the 
war. A central aspect of this peace process is that it has 
focused  on  the  protection  and  guarantee  of  the  rights 
of the victims: the rights to truth, justice, reparations 
and non-repetition. To that end, we have agreed on such 
mechanisms  as  a  truth  commission,  reparation  and 
restoration measures, and a comprehensive transitional 
justice system.
This is the first time in the history of the resolution of 
armed conflicts anywhere in the world that a Government 
and  an  illegal  armed  group  —  through  an  agreement 
and not through external imposition — have agreed on 
transitional  justice.  The  perpetrators  of  international 
crimes  and  other  serious  crimes  will  be  investigated, 
judged  and  punished.  This  has  been  positively 
highlighted  by  the  Prosecutor  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  the  Inter-American  Commission  on 
Human  Rights  and  many  other  organizations  and 
experts. We are sure that this model of justice, which 
is framed within a comprehensive system to guarantee 
the rights of the victims — as established by the Rome 
Statute — will be a useful precedent for future peace 
processes.
I  should  like  to  highlight  another  aspect  of  the 
Agreement. We know that drug trafficking has fueled 
war in Colombia and around the world. Thanks to the 
Agreement,  FARC  is  committed  to  severing  all  ties 
with this activity and to cooperating, through concrete 
actions,  to  combat  this  phenomenon.  This  is  highly 
symbolic, as those who once protected illicit coca crops 
will now work with the State in eradicating them.
A similar process will be take place with regard to 
the anti-personnel mines that have killed and mutilated 
so many soldiers, police officers, farmers and children. 
The State and FARC will work jointly to demine all of 
the  national  territory.  That  will  also  have  significant 
environmental  benefits  not  only  for  our  country,  but 
also for the planet. To the extent that  illegal crops are 
replaced  with  legal  ones,  the  deforestation  caused  by 
coca  cultivation  will  stop.  No  longer  will  millions  of 
barrels of oil spill into our rivers and oceans because 
of attacks on our oil infrastructure. We will be able to 
better take care of and preserve the natural lung that is 
the Amazon.
A new Colombia greets the international community 
today. It is a Colombia full of hope, a Colombia that, 
without  war,  is  ready  to  reach  its  highest  potential 
and  to  be  a  positive  factor  in  the  global  context.  It  is 
a  Colombia  where  the  resources  that  used  to  finance 
war will now be better used on education, health and 
security  for  its  citizens.  It  is  a  Colombia  that  opens 
its arms to the world and welcomes investment, trade 
and tourism.
The President returned to the Chair.
The  Sustainable  Development  Goals  have  already 
been  adopted  into  law  in  our  country.  We  were  the 
first country to do so. The Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change  is  now  before  Congress  to  be  enacted  into 
law. Peace will undoubtedly allow us to achieve these 
transformative  commitments  with  greater  ease  and 
effectiveness. 
Today, on behalf of almost 50 million Colombians, 
I  express  our  deepest  gratitude  to  the  international 
community  for  its  ongoing  and  tireless  support  for 
peace  in  Colombia.  We  thank  Cuba,  the  host  of  the 
dialogues, and Norway, which were guarantors of the 
peace  negotiations,  as  well  as  Chile  and  Venezuela, 
which  accompanied  the  entire  process.  I  thank  the 
United States, Germany and the European Union, which 
appointed special envoys to accompany the dialogues.
We especially thank the United Nations, Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and the Security Council, which 
established  a  political  mission  to  lead  the  monitoring 
and verification of the ceasefire and the disarmament 
of  the  guerrillas.  I  had  the  opportunity  to  thank  the 
Council personally a few moments ago (see S/PV.7773). 
We  thank  the  countries  of  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean, all of which supported this process. We are 
profoundly grateful to so many Governments, countries 
and  organizations  that  have  continuously  expressed 
their  solidarity  and  willingness  to  support  Colombia 
in  the  challenging  post-conflict  phase  that  lies  ahead 
of us.
I can say today, in this historic Hall, that we have 
succeeded for Colombians and the world. Colombia is 
turning the page of war to start writing the chapter of 
peace. That is what we wish for the rest of the planet. 
16-29421
13/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
Therefore, we offer our full solidarity to the nations that 
have suffered and continue to suffer from the scourge 
of  global  terrorism.  The  example  of  Colombia  should 
give hope to the world that it is possible to achieve the 
dream  of  peace  when  there  is  will  and  commitment.
To that end we must first disarm spirits and language, 
because words can be as harmful as bombs. We have to 
take in and protect the victims and the most vulnerable, 
including the thousands of human beings that flee war 
to  seek  opportunities  beyond  their  borders.  Colombia 
is  more  than  ready  to  continue  supporting  the  raison 
d’être of the United Nations — the search for peace in 
the world.
As  President  of  Colombians,  I  am  happy  and 
humbly excited to announce to the Assembly the peace 
in  Colombia.  A  conflict  of  over  half  a  century  —  a 
conflict  that  left  more  than  220,000  people  dead  and 
claimed  more  than  8  million  victims  —  has  come  to 
an end. The bells of peace are ringing in Colombia and 
their echo is heard by all the nations represented in this 
Hall. We do not want more war. We do not want more 
wars, not in Colombia and not in the rest of the world. 
Today we have a reason for hope. There is one less war 
on the planet, and that is the war in Colombia.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Colombia  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. John Dramani Mahama, President 
of the Republic of Ghana
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Ghana.
Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama,  President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Ghana,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
President Mahama: Allow me to first congratulate 
you,  Ambassador  Peter  Thompson,  on  your  election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
first  session  and  to  assure  you  of  Ghana’s  support 
and  cooperation  during  this  session  and  throughout 
your  tenure.  I  congratulate  also  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon on his selfless and dedicated service to 
our  Organization  over  the  past  ten  years  and  on  his 
achievements during his tenure of office. His time as 
Secretary-General  has  witnessed  some  key  defining 
moments  for  the  United  Nations  in  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security,  development  and 
human rights, and I commend him for his leadership.
I am President of the Republic of Ghana. I was born 
one  year  after  my  country  gained  independence  from 
colonial  domination  in  1957.  I  was  born  in  the  same 
year as Michael Jackson, whose untimely tragic death 
shocked the whole world. Michael was also known as 
the king of pop and was one of the greatest entertainers 
who ever lived. The words of his 1991 hit song “Heal the 
World” continue to echo to us from his grave. Michael 
Jackson sang, “Heal the world. Make the world a better 
place for you and for me, and the entire human race”.
His song was released in 1991, at a time of excitement 
for the world. In the 58 years of my life, I have seen the 
world change more rapidly than in the millions of years 
of  its  existence.  My  life  has  spanned  the  excitement 
of  the  post-war  era,  the  heady  days  of  our  liberation 
from colonial rule in Africa, the Apollo moon landing, 
the  Cold  War,  the  excitement  at  the  fall  of  the  Berlin 
wall, the era of globalization, the end of apartheid, the 
global progress of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs),  the  Arab  Spring,  Brexit,  China’s  slowdown, 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  the  Islamic  State 
in Iraq and the Sham, cyberattacks — and the list goes 
on and on.
Our  world  today  is  more  complicated  than  it  has 
ever  been.  The  question  I  ask  is:  what  happened  to 
the ideals that gave birth to the United Nations? What 
happened to the enthusiasm that captured the spirit of 
the  post-war  world,  which  envisioned  peace,  safety 
and security for all humankind? What happened to our 
excitement at the thawing of the Cold War; to our joy at 
the collapse of apartheid?
The  era  of  the  Cold  War  created  a  paradoxical 
safety  and  security.  The  bipolar  world  and  the  arms 
race assured mutual destruction from any nuclear war, 
and therefore the world was a more predictable place. 
Those  of  us  in  developing  countries  hid  behind  our 
shield  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement.  We  marched 
against nuclear armaments and envisioned the day that 
14/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
the  nuclear  arms  race  would  end,  so  that  the  trillions 
of  dollars  that  were  being  spent  by  the  super-Powers 
on nuclear weapons would yield a dividend that would 
create a life of prosperity for all people on Earth.
President  Reagan  stood  before  the  Brandenburg 
Gate  in  Berlin  in  1987  and  said  “Mr.  Gorbachev, 
open  this  gate.  Mr.  Gorbachev,  tear  down  this  wall.” 
In  President  Reagan’s  words,  walls  cannot  withstand 
faith,  walls  cannot  withstand  truth,  and  walls  cannot 
withstand freedom. The fall of the Berlin Wall opened a 
vision of a new world — the era of globalization; an age 
where trade and interaction among people of the world 
would  spread  prosperity  across  the  globe.  It  did,  to 
some extent. The rise of the Asian tigers; the emerging 
world of China, Brazil, South Africa and India; the turn 
of  the  millennium  and  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals raised millions of people out of poverty.
A  young  man  in  West  Africa  drops  out  of  school 
and takes to selling petty items along the streets of the 
city. In agreement with four of his friends, they decide 
to raise money and try to make it to the greener pastures 
of Europe. They pay their way through the Niger and 
arrive at Agadez, whence they brave the trek of death. 
This is a dangerous hike across the harshest desert on 
Earth — the Sahara. They are attacked by bandits along 
the way and robbed of all their money and provisions. 
They are rescued by some Good Samaritans.
Two members of their group do not make it through 
the  desert  crossing.  After  months  of  living  under  the 
threat  of  death  from  many  armed  groups,  including 
the Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham in Libya, they 
finally  board  an  overloaded  dinghy  bound  for  Italy. 
Rescued from the sea after their dinghy capsizes, only 
one of them remains, held in a refugee detention centre 
in  Italy.  He  is  the  lucky  one  —  the  only  one  of  five 
friends  to  survive  the  perilous  journey.  How  long  he 
will remain in the detention centre, he does not know.
This  could  be  the  story  of  any  young  African 
seeking a better life in Europe. All over the world, there 
are new walls being built — walls that imprison us and 
block us from the rest of the world. The young African 
refugee in an Italian detention centre is facing one new 
such wall. In many parts of the world, extremist forces 
have hijacked the dialogue, and among the millennial 
generation  all  available  cutting-edge  technology  is 
used to spread anxieties that evoke fear and arouse our 
basest emotions.
Hate speech is becoming common. People complain 
of  being  tired  of  being  politically  correct.  In  many 
places,  xenophobia  has  taken  over  rational  thinking. 
In the vote on Brexit, the spectre of a flood of Syrian 
refugees  was  used  as  the  instrument  for  propelling 
the  United  Kingdom’s  exit  from  the  European  Union. 
It is a paradox of our world that nearly 30 years after 
President Reagan called for the Berlin Wall to be torn 
down, new walls are springing up everywhere.
Yet we have the resources in this world to guarantee 
each person a decent life. In the implementation of the 
MDGs, despite the minimal resources that were injected 
by  the  wealthy  nations,  we  managed  by  prioritizing 
our spending to put more children in school than ever 
before in history. We managed to pull more than 40 per 
cent  of  the  world’s  people  out  of  extreme  poverty.  In 
Valletta,  the  European  Union  put  €1.8  billion  into 
an  emergency  fund  to  cooperate  with  Africa  in  the 
curbing of unregulated migration, and yet with Africa’s 
significant share of the world’s arable lands, a youthful 
labour  force  and  a  significant  share  of  the  world’s 
natural  resources,  a  reordering  of  economic  relations 
could  create  boundless  opportunities  that  would  keep 
young Africans at home, not risking their lives on these 
perilous  journeys.  Removing  subsidies  for  farmers  of 
the advanced world would create an even playing field 
for African farmers to compete. Removing revenue and 
non-revenue  barriers  to  African  produce  would  give 
African agriculture a fighting chance.
Some  of  the  young  Africans  who  hazard  the 
desert  and  the  Mediterranean  Sea  to  cross  to  Europe 
from  my  country  are  young  poultry  farmers  or  other 
entrepreneurs  who  sell  their  shops  and  undertake  the 
journey because they can no longer compete with the 
tons  of  frozen  chicken  dumped  on  African  markets 
annually,  or  with  the  adverse  business  environment 
they  have  to  face.  Africa  does  not  need  sympathy  or 
overseas development assistance. Africans need a fair 
chance to trade with the rest of the world and among 
ourselves.
The progress towards the creation of a continental 
free-trade  area  is  commendable  and  must  be  fast-
tracked.  Raising  intra-African  trade  alone  from  the 
paltry  average  of  15  per  cent  would  create  better 
opportunities for Africa’s youth. We can achieve a lot 
in collaboration with the rest of the world, and yet we 
must realize that a lot also rests within our own capacity 
to achieve as Africans. Recently, I took the decision as 
President  of  Ghana  to  allow  citizens  of  other  African 
16-29421
15/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
countries travelling to Ghana to obtain visas on arrival. 
This  would  stimulate  trade  and  investment  if  it  were 
replicated across the entire continent.
Structural  reforms  are  required  in  many  areas. 
Governance is also a critical area that requires reform 
in Africa. Democracy unleashes the creative juices of 
our  citizens.  Africa  has  made  remarkable  progress. 
Elections  are  held  regularly,  civil  society  groups  and 
think tanks have become more vocal, and the media is 
increasingly  free.  Yet  there  is  a  lot  more  that  we  can 
do to allow Africans the space to express themselves. 
Democracy  is  not  a  one-size-fits-all  system;  different 
countries  are  at  different  stages  of  the  democratic 
journey.  Democracy  evolves  and  cannot  be  forced 
on  the  people.  It  does  not  help  for  bigger  Powers  to 
proselytize  democracy  across  the  continent.  It  can 
have negative consequences, as we are experiencing in 
parts  of  North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East.  But  still, 
a properly functioning peer system can avoid some of 
the  meltdowns  we  are  experiencing  in  some  African 
countries due to a desire to remain in office interminably.
The  mistake  with  Africa  is  that  we  are  seen 
as  a  homogenous  unit  and  treated  as  such.  It  is  not 
acknowledged  that  we  are  a  whole  continent  with 
different  aspirations,  cultures,  democracies  and 
economic  developments.  Human  progress  is  not  a 
seamless movement forward. It encompasses periods of 
reversal, mistakes, fumbling and even falling. All parts 
of the world have been through this and learned from 
their mistakes. They have picked themselves up after a 
fall and continued moving. Africa must be allowed the 
same latitude.
the 
A  few  years  ago 
term  “Africa  Rising” 
painted  a  picture  of  a  continent  on  the  move.  Recent 
headwinds  experienced  due  to  the  China  slowdown 
and  the  collapse  of  commodity  prices  have  caused 
some sceptics of Africa to once again gloat about the 
notion that nothing good can come out of the continent. 
Africa is a continent of 54 countries at different stages 
of progress and development. There must be room for 
us to make our mistakes and learn from them. Africa 
has the potential to be the next continent on the rise. It 
has a lot going for it. The continent has many success 
stories. Africa has the fastest growing population, and 
thus a very youthful labour force; the fastest growing 
middle class, with increasing disposable incomes; and 
the  fastest  growing  information  and  communication 
technology networks in the world.
Africa needs strengthened institutions and we are 
working to build them. We must engrain transparency 
and  integrity  more  and  more  into  our  governance 
systems. President Obama said on his historic visit to 
Ghana  that  what  Africa  needs  is  strong  institutions. 
We  must  strengthen  our  institutions  of  governance  to 
eliminate the incidence of corruption that impoverishes 
our people.
My  country,  Ghana,  is  a  part  of  Africa’s  success 
story.  I  am  proud  of  my  country.  We  are  variously 
called  the  “model  of  democracy”  in  Africa  or  the 
“beacon of democracy”. We have not looked back since 
the  adoption  of  our  1992  Constitution.  Successive 
elections,  with  power  occasionally  swinging  between 
opposing  political  parties,  have  established  Ghana’s 
democratic credentials in the world. A strict two-term 
limit for the President guarantees that every eight years 
a new person will be in charge.
Ghana  has  a  fiercely  independent  media,  with 
hundreds of newspapers and radio stations. I always say 
jokingly to my colleagues that in Ghana I have 27 million 
Presidents, all of whom know my job better than I do. 
Every  morning  on  the  political  talk  shows  across  the 
country, my fellow citizens can be heard coaching me 
on how to do my job and what my responsibilities are 
as President.
Bold  measures  in  effecting  structural  reforms 
have yielded a more stable and resilient economy, with 
a  deficit-to-gross  domestic  product  (GDP)  target  of 
4.9 per cent this year, among other favourable targets. 
With a stable currency, business confidence is rising and 
foreign direct investment remains very strong. Ghana 
has  been  chugging  along  at  a  respectable  average  of 
about 6 per cent GDP growth rate over the past decade. 
With  the  structural  reforms  we  have  undertaken,  in 
collaboration with our development partners, and new 
developments  in  our  offshore  oil  and  gas  prospects, 
Ghana  is  predicted  to  clip  along  from  next  year  at  a 
respectable 8 per cent growth per annum.
socioeconomic 
Over  the  past  decade,  we  have  invested  heavily 
in  expanding  our 
infrastructure. 
Investments  in  health  care,  education,  power,  water, 
roads  and  ports  are  yielding  significant  dividends 
for  us  and  creating  more  employment  opportunities 
for  our  young  people.  These  investments  are  yielding 
dividends in improved health care, increased enrolment 
at  all  levels  of  the  educational  ladder,  improved 
16/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
transportation systems and the growth of the small and 
medium enterprises.
the Zika virus. We must use the lessons learned from 
the Ebola crisis to confront that new threat.
With  the  modest  progress  we  are  making,  we  are 
able to recapture the vision of the founder of our nation. 
It is a happy coincidence that on his birth anniversary 
today, I have the opportunity to address the world from 
the prestigious rostrum of the General Assembly. Today, 
21 September, marks the birthday of Kwame Nkrumah. 
Many  African  leaders  of  our  current  generation  draw 
inspiration from him. President Kwame Nkrumah was 
a  champion  of  African  liberation  and  a  staunch  Pan-
Africanist.  I  wish  all  my  country  men  and  women  a 
happy Founder’s Day.
Two years ago, I stood on this stage (see A/69/PV.9) 
and in my capacity as Chair of the Economic Community 
of West African States called for urgent action to halt the 
spread of the Ebola virus disease, which was ravaging 
three of our West African neighbours and threatening 
to  spread  across  the  whole  subregion.  Today,  I  stand 
here to salute Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and the 
United  Nations  for  their  prompt  response  in  setting 
up  the  United  Nations  Mission  for  Ebola  Emergency 
Response  (UNMEER),  which  was  based  in  Ghana. 
UNMEER  will  probably  go  down  in  the  history  of 
the  United  Nations  as  one  of  the  most  successful  and 
effective missions ever deployed by the Organization. I 
also salute the international community for its effective 
response in the form of logistics, personnel, medication 
and other material that helped to snuff out the disease 
in a relatively short time.
My  particular  commendation  goes  to  the  brave 
volunteers, including 41 of my own countrymen, who 
risked  their  lives  by  going  into  the  infection  zone  to 
assist  in  the  fight  against  the  disease.  Ghana  remains 
proud of its contribution towards ending that crisis and 
of  its  support  to  the  United  Nations  system  and  the 
international  community  when  we  made  our  country 
the  staging  post  for  the  international  response  and 
the  United  Nations  Mission  on  the  Ebola  Emergency 
Response, despite the threats.
Following the Ebola response, German Chancellor 
Angela Merkel, Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg 
and  I  wrote  to  the  Secretary-General  calling  for  the 
establishment of a high-level panel to prepare a report 
that would allow the world to respond better in times 
of such global health crises. We are faced with such a 
situation already in respect of the exponential spread of 
Another  threat  we  must  confront  together  as  a 
united world is the threat of terrorism. No part of the 
world is safe. In our subregion, the activities of Boko 
Haram  in  north-eastern  Nigeria  and  the  Lake  Chad 
Basin  have  displaced  millions  of  people  and  claimed 
thousands of casualties. Attacks in Mali, Burkina Faso 
and Côte d’Ivoire show that all our countries are at risk. 
Terrorism is one of the gravest threats to world peace 
and security today.
We  cannot  be  under  any  illusion  about 
the 
imminent  threat  to  all  of  us  even  as  we  go  about  our 
daily activities. But the solution is not to shut our doors 
to foreigners who may have genuine cause for visiting, 
including  tourism,  business  or  sanctuary  as  refugees. 
That is what the terrorists want to us to do; they seek to 
instil fear and panic in us in order that we shut our doors 
on the rest of the world. Ghana stands in solidarity with 
all countries that have experienced terrorism recently: 
Bangladesh,  Belgium,  France,  Germany,  Indonesia, 
Lebanon, Pakistan, the Russian Federation, Turkey and 
the United States of America. No, we must not give in 
to them. The terrorists must not win, they cannot win 
and they will not win.
I wish to commend the United States and Cuba for 
the  progress  made  in  thawing  the  relations  between 
the  two  neighbours.  We  have  all  been  watching  with 
excitement the removal of some of the last vestiges of 
the  Cold  War  with  the  reopening  of  embassies  in  the 
two  capitals,  President  Obama’s  historic  visit  and  the 
resumption  of  flights  between  the  two  countries.  The 
time has come to take the remaining steps to completely 
lift  the  blockade  on  Cuba.  I  hope  that  this  can  be 
achieved  before  President  Obama’s  Administration 
leaves office.
Ghana once again wishes to reiterate its support for 
a two-State solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 
There  is  no  military  solution  to  this  conflict.  Israel’s 
security can be guaranteed only by a peaceful and stable 
Palestinian  State  coexisting  side  by  side  with  Israel. 
Unfortunately,  the  illegal  occupation  of  Palestinian 
lands continues to make such a solution more and more 
difficult to attain.
Last  September,  we  convened  in  this  very  Hall 
and  made  a  commitment  to  implementing  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. It is an ambitious 
yet  achievable  Agenda  whose  Goals  and  Targets  go 
16-29421
17/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
far  beyond  the  imperatives  of  economic  growth  by 
tackling the root causes of poverty and deprivation and 
delivering on the social and environmental dimensions 
of  development.  The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  not  only  marks  the  beginning  of  a  new 
and even more promising phase in our trajectory as a 
global body, but also challenges us to develop new and 
innovative  partnerships  that  I  believe  will  guarantee 
progress evenly across regions and for all people. The 17 
Goals and 169 Targets underscore the underlying values 
of the United Nations, as enshrined in its Charter, and 
provide renewed impetus to its activities in sustaining 
peace, preserving our planet, ensuring socioeconomic 
justice and safeguarding the dignity of mankind.
The  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  the 
Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction  2015-
2030,  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  on  Financing 
for  Development  and  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  represent  four  important,  mutually  reinforcing 
landmark agreements that open a new chapter in global 
development towards ensuring prosperity for our people 
and preserving our planet.
I am impressed by the level of commitment that the 
United States and China, two of the major emitters of 
greenhouse gases, have shown by agreeing to ratify the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  I  hope  that  this 
will be the catalyst that brings the Agreement into force, 
and  state  that  we,  as  a  generation,  are  unequivocally 
committed  to  bequeathing  a  better  world  to  future 
generations. We must not fail to do this. As leaders, we 
are also responsible for moving beyond setting norms 
to  delivering  on  our  commitments  at  the  national, 
regional and global levels. If we do not achieve them all 
simultaneously, it must not be for want of effort.
I am particularly honoured to co-chair the Secretary-
General’s advocacy group in support of the SDGs. While 
we acknowledge that national leadership and ownership 
are critical, global partnerships are needed for financial 
resources, policy advice and technical assistance. I am 
happy  to  inform  you,  Mr.  President,  that  Ghana  has 
begun work in earnest to implement the SDGs. We will 
establish  the  necessary  national  structures  to  ensure 
that the policies and measures taken in that regard fall 
in  line  with  our  40-year  development  plan,  currently 
being  formulated.  I  have  also  signed  the  ratification 
instrument of the Paris Agreement and will take part in 
the event today depositing Ghana’s instrument with the 
United Nations.
The Security Council remains an important source 
of  legitimacy  for  international  action  on  peace  and 
security. While Africa accounts for close to one third 
of the membership of the United Nations and nearly two 
thirds of the work of the Council, it remains woefully 
underrepresented in the permanent and non-permanent 
category.  Eleven  long  years  after  the  African  Union 
adopted the Ezulwini Consensus, we are nowhere near 
achieving  a  more  equitable  reform  of  the  Security 
Council.  That  will  continue  to  remain  a  scar  on  the 
conscience of this world body if not remedied as quickly 
as possible.
Ghana  is  a  leading  democracy  in  Africa.  I  stand 
before the world today to declare that, just as we have 
done in the past, my country will go to the polls this 
December, and the processes before, during and after 
will mark a further consolidation of Ghana’s credentials 
as a leading world democracy.
In conclusion, let me once again express my sincere 
appreciation to Mr. Ban Ki-moon for his extraordinary 
leadership during his tenure as Secretary-General. The 
people  of  Ghana,  my  wife  and  I  wish  the  Secretary-
General  and  Mrs.  Ban  Soon-taek  well  in  their  future 
endeavours. It is my wish that history record our time 
here  in  this  Hall  as  one  that  gave  reality  to  Michael 
Jackson’s song: “heal the world/make the world a better 
place for you and for me/and for the entire human race.”
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Ghana 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  John  Dramani  Mahama,  President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Sarwar Danesh, Vice-President 
of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Vice-President of the Islamic Republic 
of Afghanistan.
Mr.  Sarwar  Danesh,  Vice-President  of 
the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Afghanistan,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Sarwar Danesh, Vice-President of 
18/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.
Mr. Danesh (Afghanistan) (spoke in Dari; English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  my  distinct 
pleasure  to  attend  the  seventy-first  session  of  the 
General Assembly. I sincerely congratulate Ambassador 
Peter Thomson of the Republic of Fiji on having been 
elected  to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
this  session.  I  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  his  tireless  efforts  and  wise  leadership  in  support 
of  fundamental  freedoms,  the  rule  of  law  and  justice 
for all over a decade. We wish him every success in his 
future endeavours.
The  twenty-first  century  has  brought  with  it  an 
ever-complex international arena, in which certain old 
conflicts  have  lingered  and  been  exacerbated,  while 
new  threats  and  challenges  —  in  the  form  of  violent 
extremism and terrorism, displacement and migration, 
climate change and other challenges — have emerged, 
threatening all of humankind. We have come to realize 
that dialogue and cooperation provide the most viable 
avenue  to  promote  peace  and  security  and  ensure  a 
world without hatred and conflict.
We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  remains  the 
single most important international body for promoting 
global peace, security and prosperity, and that achieving 
a stronger Organization remains a priority for all of us 
in  the  way  forward.  The  United  Nations  vital  role  in 
helping Afghanistan to transition into a democratic and 
pluralistic  society  is  a  clear  example  of  its  profound 
impact  in  helping  to  create  real  change  for  bettering 
societies and communities around the world. Allow me 
to update the Assembly on the current state of affairs 
in my country.
While two years have passed since the establishment 
of  the  Government  of  National  Unity  of  Afghanistan, 
I  would  like  to  briefly  present  an  overview  of  the 
achievements of my Government under the leadership 
of Mr. Mohammad Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai, the elected 
President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. We 
in Afghanistan aim to strengthen the spirit of national 
participation and cooperation so as to take into account 
the wishes and will Afghan citizens. Based on national 
consensus, all groups, political figures and Afghan elites 
inside and outside the Government are jointly sharing 
ideas  now  how  to  strengthen  the  political  system  and 
the  Government  of  National  Unity  and  to  implement 
reforms within the framework of our national interests.
The  Afghan  nation  has  inherited  a  legacy  of 
conflict,  oppression,  discrimination  and  inequality. 
We believe that democracy is the best solution to these 
problems, as it provides the only foundation to ensure 
justice and equality and to enable social and political 
groups to be adequately represented. We have a modern 
Constitution  that  provides  for  this  goal,  and  only  its 
full  implementation  can  ensure  political  stability  in 
our society.
to  education, 
Our  Government  has 
registered  considerable 
achievements in different areas over the past two years, 
including  in  reducing  maternal  and  child  mortality, 
increasing  access 
improving  basic 
freedoms,  strengthening  the  telecommunications  and 
information  sectors,  improving  the  rule  of  law  and 
preserving  justice  and  human  rights.  Internationally, 
our  Government  enjoys  its  due  status,  having  proved 
to be a trustworthy partner to the many countries that 
are engaged in Afghanistan and invested in the security 
and stability of the country.
We  are  sparing  no  effort  to  implement  our 
commitments  to  reform.  We  are  pursuing  our  well-
planned and systematic efforts to eliminate corruption, 
strengthen good governance, undertake judicial reform, 
promote  women’s  empowerment,  ensure  effective 
service  delivery  for  our  citizens  and  accountability 
standards at all levels of Government, institutionalize 
merit-based  appointments  of  senior  officials  and 
secure transparency in Government contracts, with the 
establishment of the National Procurement Authority.
In  order  to  strengthen  transparency  of  our  future 
parliamentary,  presidential  and  district  council 
elections,  the  process  of  consultations  and  technical 
and legal studies on reforming our electoral bodies and 
laws  have  been  concluded,  and  initial  steps  towards 
electoral reforms will begin very soon.
Combating the threat of narcotics is another priority 
of the National Unity Government. In this regard, we 
are  cooperating  closely  with  United  Nations  Office 
on Drugs and Crime and other international partners, 
and will maintain our joint efforts within the national 
action plan framework.
At the 2016 NATO Warsaw Summit in July, NATO 
members  and  our  other  allies  pledged  to  provide 
$1 billion in support on an annual basis for the Afghan 
National Defence and Security Forces (ANDSF) until 
the end of 2020. The Resolute Support Mission, which 
offers  support  in  training,  advice  and  assistance  to 
16-29421
19/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
ANDSF,  was  also  extended  beyond  2016.  We  extend 
a  particular  debt  of  gratitude  to  the  United  States  of 
America for providing the largest share of support.
In  less  than  two  weeks  time,  Afghanistan  and 
our  international  partners  will  come  together  at  the 
Brussels  Conference  on  Afghanistan  to  review,  and 
reach  important  decisions  on,  the  full  scope  of  the 
joint  partnership  in  the  way  forward.  The  National 
Unity  Government  will  present  a  comprehensive 
update on the positive trajectory of our reform efforts, 
conducted  on  the  basis  of  the  Self-Reliance  through 
Mutual  Accountability  Framework.  We  look  forward 
to  our  international  partners  making  new  pledges  of 
assistance on the basis of Afghanistan’s National Peace 
and Development Framework.
Despite 
these 
the 
achievements, 
ongoing 
undeclared  war  against  Afghanistan  and  the  need  for 
security  remain  a  serious  challenge  for  the  National 
Unity Government, as our people are still subject to the 
merciless  attacks  of  terrorist  groups.  Currently,  more 
than 10 terrorist groups, sent from outside the country 
with  the  goal  of  impeding  our  State-building  efforts 
and preventing the establishment of peace and stability, 
are  fighting  against  us  in  Afghanistan.  One  of  their 
main objectives is to suppress democracy, freedom of 
speech,  and  our  free  and  independent  media.  That  is 
why our journalists are subject to serious threats while 
reporting  from  the  battlefields  and  during  terrorist 
attacks. Afghanistan asks the United Nations to appoint 
a  special  representative  for  the  safety  of  journalists, 
focused  on  protecting  all  journalists,  including  those 
serving in Afghanistan.
Over  the  past  several  months,  terrorist  groups, 
including  the  Taliban  and  Da’esh,  which  continue  to 
enjoy  foreign  support,  have  attacked  a  peaceful  and 
civil demonstration of the Enlightenment Movement in 
Deh Mazang square in Kabul, and killed dozens of our 
educated youth and elite. They have also attacked the 
American University of Afghanistan and other civilian 
facilities, killing hundreds of innocent civilians. Based 
on  existing  evidence,  these  attacks  were  planned  and 
organized  from  the  other  side  of  the  Durand  Line, 
inside Pakistani territory.
This year, the Taliban has tried to take control of 
more  areas  in  the  country,  especially  in  Kunduz  and 
Helmand  provinces,  but  have  been  confronted  by  the 
ANDSF.  As  a  result,  hundreds  of  extremist  militants 
of  the  Taliban  and  Da’esh,  many  of  whom  were 
foreign  fighters,  were  killed  or  captured.  We  call  on 
the  international  community  to  focus  on  eliminating 
terrorist safe havens located outside of the country. We 
urge  States  to  honestly  implement  their  international 
pledges in the fight against terrorism and to avoid the 
dual  policy  of  distinguishing  between  good  and  bad 
terrorists, which undermines the international order.
Where  were  the  previous  leaders  of  the  Taliban 
and Al-Qaeda residing, and where were they killed? At 
this very moment, where are the leaders of the Taliban 
and  the  Haqqani  network  located?  Where  and  how 
are terrorists being trained, equipped and financed to 
wage  a  full-scale  war?  We  have  repeatedly  asked  our 
neighboring  country  Pakistan  to  destroy  the  known 
terrorist safe havens, but we have unfortunately yet to 
witness  any  change  in  the  situation.  Afghanistan  has 
always  desired  peaceful  relations  with  all  countries 
of  the  region,  but  the  Government  of  National  Unity 
reserves the right to do whatever is necessary to defend 
and protect our people.
We  have  also  kept  the  doors  of  peace  and 
negotiations open to those Taliban elements and other 
armed  opposition  groups  that  are  willing  to  renounce 
violence,  return  to  peaceful  life  and  adhere  to  our 
Constitution. In this connection, a peace agreement is 
about  to  be  signed  between  our  Government  and  the 
Hezb-e-Islami party. That will be an important step for 
progress in our peace process.
We  believe  that  the  Quadrilateral  Coordination 
Group  on 
the  Afghan  Peace  and  Reconciliation 
Process  —  composed  of  Afghanistan,  the  People’s 
Republic of China, Pakistan and the United States — can 
remain  a  useful  platform  to  further  peace  efforts  so 
long as the Government of Pakistan acts in good faith to 
meet and fulfil its commitments within the parameters 
of the Group’s road map.
Despite  our  security  challenges,  Afghanistan  has 
always maintained a positive approach to our relations 
with all regional countries and the Islamic world. We 
consider Islamic countries to be our best partners and 
seek  to  strengthen  our  cultural,  social  and  economic 
ties  and  to  use  our  experience  to  promote  peace  and 
coexistence  and  present  a  moderate  interpretation  of 
Islam. In this regard, we welcome the express readiness 
of  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Cooperation  and 
any Islamic country to help promote the peace agenda 
in  Afghanistan.  I  would  add  that  Islam  is  a  religion 
with  a  clear  thought,  culture,  civilization  and  history 
20/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
that respects human dignity, rights and freedoms, and 
derives national sovereignty from the will of the people. 
It  is  also  against  any  kind  of  injustice,  exclusivism, 
hatred, radicalism and violence.
extended  cooperation  with  Iran  regarding  Chabahar 
Port.  The  implementation  of  these  projects  will  allow 
Afghanistan to reach international markets and improve 
connections between the regional countries.
Those individuals and groups that resort to violence, 
terror and killing under any name are not acquainted with 
the spirit of this humane religion, and are in fact using 
Islam only as a tool to achieve their evil goals. How can 
Islam possibly permit terrorism and suicide attacks, or 
the taking of the lives of thousands of innocent people, 
when it clearly considers the human individual to be the 
representative of God on Earth, assigning him dignity 
and  offering  him  heavenly  insight  in  the  holy  verses 
of  the  Quran?  Islam  also  considers  the  killing  of  one 
innocent human to be equal to killing all humankind. 
We  expect  the  prominent  Islamic  scholars  who  will 
soon take part in an important conference in the holy 
city  of  Mecca  to  further  elucidate  the  true  image  of 
Islam and declare their condemnation of terrorists and 
extremists on behalf of our great religion.
In order to achieve regional cooperation, we need 
a stable region. Afghanistan’s foreign policy is founded 
on  the  creation  of  a  secure  economy-based  society. 
Afghanistan  is  an  active  member  of  the  South  Asian 
Association for Regional Cooperation and the European 
Community Humanitarian Office, as well an observer 
member  of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization, 
and seeks to play an active role in the revitalization of 
the Regional Cooperation Agenda within the Heart of 
Asia-Istanbul Process.
Afghanistan  and  all  countries  of  its  region  share 
common threats and common interests. We should come 
together and cooperate in the fight against our common 
threats,  which  include  terrorism,  radicalism,  drugs, 
organized  crime,  illegal  immigration  and  smuggling. 
The establishment of a regional railroad, energy transit, 
mine extraction, trade and transportation infrastructure 
can provide us with an important opportunity for joint 
economic cooperation.
Afghanistan, as an important crossroads for trade, 
transport  and  economic  activities,  can  connect  South 
Asia to Central Asia, and the Middle East to East and 
South Asia. Afghanistan has already made significant 
progress  through  projects  such  as  the  Turkmenistan-
Afghanistan-Pakistan-India Pipeline; the Central Asia 
South Asia Electricity Transmission and Trade Project; 
the Lapis Lazuli Corridor; a railway corridor between 
China,  Iran,  Afghanistan  and  Central  Asia;  and 
integrity  and  national  sovereignty; 
With  respect  to  the  principles  of  non-interference 
in  the  affairs  of  other  countries;  avoiding  the  use 
of  force  in  the  resolution  of  conflicts;  respect  for 
territorial 
the 
exchange  of  knowledge,  science  and  technology;  and, 
most  importantly,  the  promotion  of  peace  and  lasting 
security and stability, we can prepare for the economic 
growth of all countries of our region. We therefore call 
on all our neighbouring countries to cooperate with us 
in the provision of security and stability throughout the 
region.
In  November  1946,  Afghanistan  was  the  first 
country  to  become  a  United  Nations  Member  State 
after  the  51  founding  countries,  and  since  then  it  has 
solemnly  adhered  to  its  international  commitments. 
Over  the  past  16  years,  we  have  served  as  a  point  of 
convergence  at  which  the  international  community 
has been able to come together. In this regard and on 
behalf  of  the  Afghan  nation,  I  also  wish  to  highlight 
and  thank  the  United Nations for the central role  it  has 
played  in  facilitating  effective  international  support 
for  the  stability  and  prosperity  of  Afghanistan.  In 
recent years, we have signed documents for long-term 
strategic cooperation with 20 of our allies, including the 
United States, the European Union and NATO, which 
have announced their valuable support for the policies 
and decisions of the Afghan Government at important 
conferences  in  Bonn,  Tokyo,  London,  Chicago  and 
Warsaw.
Afghanistan, like other members of the international 
community, is serious and resolute in its fight against 
radicalism and violence and will continue to battle this 
ominous phenomenon. For years, our nation has been 
on the front line of the fight against terrorism and has 
made tremendous sacrifices in defence of the common 
values  of  humanity.  We  have  lost  many  of  our  great 
national  figures,  including  the  martyrs  Ahmad  Shah 
Massoud,  Ustad  Burhanuddin  Rabbani,  Ustad  Abdul 
Ali  Mazari  and  Abdul  Haq,  as  well  as  hundreds  of 
ulamas,  Members  of  Parliament,  officers,  journalists 
and members of our political elites.
We  believe  that  terrorism  and  radicalism  have 
become  global  threats  to  world  peace.  We  have  seen 
signs of radicalism emerge in different forms throughout 
16-29421
21/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
Europe and America and incidents of terrorist attacks 
in many countries around the world. Given the extent 
of these threats, the measures taken by the international 
community in the fight against terrorism and radicalism 
will never be sufficient or successful unless effective, 
comprehensive  measures  encompassing  political, 
cultural,  economic  and  even  military  aspects  are 
considered to be a universal strategic necessity.
Ms. Kasese-Bota (Zambia), Vice-President, re-
turned to the Chair.
The  United  Nations  should  hold  an  international 
conference  on  the  fight  against  radicalism  with  the 
aim  of  introducing  a  new  legal  framework  to  combat 
terrorism.  We  believe  that  serious  efforts  in  the  fight 
against terrorism and radicalism require thorough and 
precise  planning  for  at  least  20  years.  Afghanistan, 
which is on the front line of this fight, should receive 
special attention from the international community in 
this regard.
One  of  the  ominous  outcomes  of  violence  and 
radicalism is the new wave of immigration over the past 
year, which has emerged as an important international 
challenge. We thank those countries that offer support 
to Afghan immigrants, especially Germany and other 
European  countries 
that  have  welcomed  Afghan 
refugees with open arms and a humane, loving spirit. 
We also ask the United Nations and its Member States 
to  take  a  new  approach  towards  this  international 
challenge  and  help  countries  of  origin  to  address  the 
root causes of and reasons for immigration, particularly 
the ominous phenomena of war, poverty and illiteracy.
A  glimpse  into  global  conditions  shows  that 
threat,  violence  and  conflict  are  still 
injustice, 
endangering  millions  of  human  lives  throughout  the 
world.  We  have  seen  devastation  and  terror  in  Syria. 
We  announce  our  full  support  for  a  comprehensive 
solution to the Syrian conflict that reflects the will of 
all Syrians. We also hope to see a comprehensive and 
peaceful solution to the conflict in Yemen.
We  support  new  international  efforts  to  resolve 
the  issue  of  Palestine  and  to  provide  the  brave  and 
noble  Palestinian  people  with  their  legitimate  rights, 
including the right to have an independent Government. 
We invite all sides to initiate direct talks so as to achieve 
a sustainable solution based on the principles of peace 
and peaceful coexistence.
Afghanistan  supports 
the  historic  agreement 
between  the  5+1  countries  and  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Iran  on  the  Iranian  nuclear  programme  within  the 
Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action,  and  views  the 
implementation  of  the  agreement  as  constructive 
for  the  restoration  of  peace,  stability  and  sustainable 
development in the region and the world. With regard 
to  nuclear  programmes,  I  should  add  that  we  believe 
that the Democratic Republic of North Korea’s tests of 
nuclear weapons are dangerous for the region and can 
endanger world peace and security.
Since  2001,  when  it  began  a  new  chapter  of  its 
modern history, Afghanistan has regained its historical 
place among the responsible members of the family of 
nations represented in the General Assembly. Through 
words and deeds, we have shown our full and abiding 
commitment to upholding the principles of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  played  our  due  role  in 
promoting global peace, justice, human rights and the 
rule of law. It is in that context that we have presented 
our candidacy to the Human Rights Council for 2018-
2020.  We  call  respectfully  and  amicably  on  all  our 
friends and Member States to support our candidacy in 
the upcoming election.
In conclusion, I wish to reiterate, on behalf of the 
Afghan people and Government, our deepest gratitude 
to all our international partners that have stood beside 
us in our quest for peace, security and prosperity over 
the past 16 years, and I especially thank the troops of 
NATO and the International Security Assistance Force 
for  the  sacrifices  they  have  made  in  the  fight  against 
terrorism  in  Afghanistan.  Together,  we  have  come  a 
long  way  in  our  journey,  but  our  task  is  undoubtedly 
unfinished.  We  look  to  the  Assembly’s  continued 
support over the coming years and remain confident in 
realizing the goals that we have jointly set to achieve.
I wish to highlight once again Afghanistan’s firm 
commitment  to  the  realization  of  a  world  in  which 
peace, harmony, justice and tranquillity prevail.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Afghanistan  for  the  statement  he 
has just made.
Mr. Sarwar Danesh, Vice-President of the Islamic 
Republic  of  Afghanistan,  was  escorted 
from 
the rostrum.
22/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
Address by Mr. Donald Tusk, President of the 
European Council
The Acting President: The Assembly will hear a 
statement by the President of the European Council.
Mr.  Donald  Tusk,  President  of  the  European 
Council, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Donald Tusk, President 
of the European Council, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly.
Mr.  Tusk  (European  Council):  Last  year,  I  stood 
here to assure the General Assembly that isolationism 
will never be Europe’s policy (see A/71/PV.16). I have 
not changed my mind, even though the past 12 months 
have  been  difficult,  not  least  for  the  European  Union 
(EU).  Europe  will  always  stand  for  a  free  and  open 
world governed by the rule of law, in which nations can 
trade and grow together, instead of living in conflict, 
mistrust and intrigue. We treat the values upon which 
the European Union is founded in all seriousness and 
we have the determination to seek those values in the 
international arena. If we fail, the world will descend 
into greater disorder, and the first victims are always 
the weakest and the poorest.
This  Organization  is  in  the  process  of  choosing 
new leadership. That gives us an opportunity to reflect 
frankly  on  the  kind  of  international  system  that  we 
have  today  and  the  one  that  we  want  for  the  future. 
As  a  historian,  I  know  why  the  League  of  Nations 
failed in its mission to protect peace and international 
security.  It  was  paralysed  by  inertia,  fatalism  and, 
finally, by cowardice. As a politician, I can see similar 
phenomena  everywhere  today.  That  is  owing  to  the 
rise of fear — the fear of war, terrorism and strangers. 
Globalization  makes  fear  more  contagious  and  more 
potent. It dangerously links together the anxieties of the 
Middle  East,  Africa,  Asia,  Europe  and  America.  One 
example, among others, is that of the radical Islam of 
Da’esh, which spreads terror from Jakarta to Nice, from 
Tunis to Brussels, from Sirte to Orlando.
When  fear  takes  over,  nations  increasingly  turn 
away from one another. What we need to do here and 
now is regain a sense of security, which is a fundamental 
need for every human being, as important as the need 
for freedom. No challenge shows that as clearly as the 
issue of refugee protection and the mass displacement 
of persons across borders. Over the past several months, 
Europe  has  been  confronted  by  the  refugee  crisis  to 
a  particularly  large  degree.  Nevertheless,  in  all  our 
actions  aimed  at  solving  the  problem  of  refugees,  the 
European Union is driven by empathy and the readiness 
to offer help to those in need, even if the world turns 
its back and pretends not to see. And still today, when 
we restore order on our external borders and take back 
control  from  the  smugglers,  the  readiness  to  assist 
refugees in their plight remains our top priority.
That is why we have spent billions of euros to fund 
humanitarian assistance and are willing to spend much 
more in the months and years to come. It is our hope 
and expectation that global solidarity will now kick in 
to  provide  health,  education  and  jobs  for  millions  of 
people  currently  displaced  and  scale  up  resettlement. 
In the light of that, we support the work that has now 
begun  under  the  New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees 
and Migrants (resolution 71/1) to find a sustainable and 
fair  rule  book  for  global  migration.  The  Declaration 
gives us hope that the principles that have been at the 
heart of our response will also form the foundation of 
the global response to the refugee crisis.
Europe  is  and  will  be  active  everywhere  that 
war  is  imminent  or  is  already  raging.  Our  main  goal 
will  always  be  peace.  That  as  true  for  civil  wars  in 
the  Middle  East  or  Africa  as  it  is  for  nuclear  testing 
and  territorial  disputes  in  Asia.  It  is  also  true  on  our 
own  borders  on  which  Ukraine  has  been  attacked  by 
Russia.  Further  afield,  what  now  concerns  us  are  the 
conflicts in Syria, Libya and Afghanistan, in which the 
very statehood of those countries is in danger. We fully 
support  and  stand  ready  to  engage  in  the  work  of  the 
United Nations to bring parties to the negotiating table 
in  Syria  and  in  Libya.  And  in  a  few  weeks,  together 
with  the  Afghan  Government,  the  European  Union 
will host an international conference in Brussels. It is 
a unique opportunity for the rest of the world to show 
that it cares about supporting a stable Afghanistan and 
the stability of the region as a whole.
This  year,  we  have  also  witnessed  a  rising  wave 
of  terror  worldwide,  including  against  the  people  of 
Europe,  carried  out  by  many  terrorist  organizations, 
in  particular  by  Da’esh.  Building  a  global  strategy 
and  network  against  terrorism  is  key,  including  in 
preventing  radicalization  and  confronting  the  issues 
of  foreign  fighters  and  terrorist  financing.  Europe  is 
working  with  partners  from  Asia  to  the  Gulf  and  the 
Sahel on building up global capacities against violent 
extremism. We are upgrading our borders to ensure that 
16-29421
23/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
terrorists cannot pass or re-enter and are working with 
communities to prevent young people from becoming 
infected  with  hatred.  This  threat  will  touch  all  of  us 
sooner or later, which is why we should make better use 
of the United Nations to fight it together.
The  European  Union  is  the  world’s  largest  donor 
of  development  and  humanitarian  aid,  and  that  will 
not  change.  The  Sustainable  Development  Goals  can 
drive  reform  of  the  international  system  by  offering 
an  opportunity  to  address  many  problems  in  one 
process  —  insecurity,  poverty,  underdevelopment, 
climate  change  and  uncontrolled  migration.  And, 
ultimately, we seek a system that ensures that everybody 
gets his or her fair share of the benefits of globalization.
Lastly,  I  would  like  to  say  a  word  about  the 
fight  against  climate  change,  to  which  the  EU  is 
fully  committed.  Europe  has  had  a  comprehensive 
climate-change  policy  in  place  for  years.  Right  now 
we are developing laws that will allow us to reach our 
ambitious  target  for  2030,  and  our  ratification  of  the 
Paris accord will be completed soon. The fact that the 
two biggest global emitters have ratified the agreement 
early is a positive sign. It shows that the readiness to 
take responsibility for our common future is not limited 
only to Europe. I am hopeful that this trend will become 
contagious.
Let  me  say  one  more  thing  at  the  end:  I  feel  that 
ordinary  people  sense  that  a  great  change  is  coming. 
We  should  listen.  We  should  understand.  We  should 
anticipate,  not  just  react.  Our  job  is  to  bring  back  a 
sense of direction, to bring back confidence, to bring 
back  a  sense  of  order.  Globalization  needs  credible 
rules to make it stable and fair, whether we are talking 
about trade, migration or security.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the European 
Council for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Donald  Tusk,  President  of  the  European 
Council, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President 
of Ukraine
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of Ukraine.
Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President 
of Ukraine, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Poroshenko:  On  behalf  of  Ukraine, 
I  sincerely  congratulate  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-first  session.  I  pledge  Ukraine’s  full  support 
for all of his endeavours.
In one of the worst years of the twentieth century, 
Ernest  Hemingway  wrote  an  inspiring  humanistic 
novel.  In  the  epigraph  to  the  novel,  he  quoted  the 
English poet John Donne:
“No man is an island,
Entire of itself,
Every man is a piece of the continent,
A part of the main;
 …
Any man’s death diminishes me,
Because I am involved in mankind”.
These words embodied the essence of the moral and 
historical transformation that humankind underwent in 
the wake of the two world wars of the twentieth century.
We entered the third millennium with a strong, new 
sense of being united, as a humankind for which there 
is  no  such  thing  as  “someone  else’s  pain”.  What  has 
happened  to  this  feeling?  Where  has  it  gone?  Where 
has the drive to isolate oneself on an island come from? 
Why is it that new politicians come to power on various 
continents  calling  for  ignoring  someone  else’s  pain? 
Why  is  it  that  a  cynicism  not  seen  since  the  time  of 
Hemingway’s novel has settled into our lives under the 
guise  of  pragmatism?  What  makes  evil  so  strong  and 
good so weak nowadays?
“No man is an island” — this is also about those 
in power.
This is also about our Organization.
Today the world is experiencing greater and greater 
instability. Some have been affected more, some less. But 
never since the end of the Cold War have international 
norms and principles been unilaterally defied on such a 
scale and with such brutality. The Charter of the United 
Nations, the document underpinning our responsibility 
for maintaining the world order, has never before been 
questioned.  And  never  before  has  a  Security  Council 
member  been  a  major  violator  of  the  United  Nations 
24/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
Charter  while  at  the  same  time  being  the  instigator 
of,  and  an  active  participant  in,  a  conflict,  as  well  as 
its mediator.
As a result, global instability is no longer the subject 
of  academic  debate  but  is  actually  the  greatest  threat 
facing humankind nowadays. Our future, the future of 
our children and our Organization, depend directly on 
how we manage to overcome this threat.
I see only two ways out of this situation: either we 
recognize  the  problem  and  spare  no  effort  to  address 
it  on  the  basis  of  shared  values  and  principles,  or  we 
deceive ourselves with the illusion of stability, turn a 
blind eye to obvious facts and leave the future of the 
United  Nations  —  this  unique  platform  for  common 
action  —  at  the  mercy  of  one  player  that  blatantly 
violates the United Nations Charter.
If  we  choose  the  second  option,  we  will  soon 
experience severe disappointment.
The price for this short-sightedness has long been 
known: it is human lives. In the last century, humankind 
paid an enormous price following the two World Wars: 
about 70 million lives. Is that not enough?
Hence,  I  wish  to  reiterate  that  we  can  no  longer 
afford to have the Security Council deadlocked on key 
issues of international peace and security. Limiting the 
use  of  the  veto  power  in  decision-making  on  conflict 
prevention  and  resolution  should  become  a  priority 
task  in  the  context  of  Security  Council  reform.  The 
suspension of the use of veto in cases of mass atrocities, 
as well as in cases in which a Security Council member 
State is a party to a dispute, should become a rock-solid 
rule, without exceptions. The Council must become a 
truly democratic and representative body free from the 
relics of the past.
There is a critical need to make our Organization 
capable  of  addressing  effectively  acts  of  aggression 
and of bringing those responsible to justice. Otherwise, 
no nation, no State Member of the United Nations can 
enjoy sustainable security and development.
the  urgent  attention  of 
Another threat to international peace and security 
that  requires 
the  world 
community is hybrid wars. As President of a State that 
has become a testing ground for new methods of hybrid 
warfare, I have already drawn international attention to 
this threat at the previous session of the Assembly.
Over the past year, the practice of hybrid warfare 
has only spread. Its effect has been seen across all of 
Europe,  the  United  States  of  America  and  beyond. 
Political  pressure,  blatant  propaganda,  interference 
with  the  electoral  process,  economic  coercion,  secret 
subversive  and  military  operation,  cyberattacks, 
misuse  of  diplomatic  measures  —  these  are  modern 
unconventional methods of undeclared war. It is time for 
the Security Council to work resolutely and effectively 
on this issue. Ukraine is ready to further discuss what 
the Council can do to tackle this threat, and how it can 
do so.
In view of the recent developments on the Korean 
peninsula,  the  future  of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation 
regime is a cause of increased concern for my country. 
As  is  well  known,  Ukraine  voluntarily  dismantled  its 
own nuclear arsenal — the third largest in the world at 
the time, with between 2,800 and 4,200 tactical nuclear 
warheads — in exchange for security, sovereignty and 
territorial integrity assurances under the 1994 Budapest 
Memorandum on Security Assurances. Regrettably, all 
these assurances remained exclusively on paper. Let me 
be frank: we failed to pass the exam with the Budapest 
Memorandum. The democratic world lost its first battle 
at  that  time.  It  was  not  only  about  Ukraine,  but  also 
about the credibility of all agreements.
However,  Ukraine,  as  a  responsible  international 
actor,  has  always  been  and  remains  a  committed 
advocate of nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. 
Thus, the timely and effective action of the international 
community  —  the  Security  Council  in  the  first 
place — in response to the North Korean nuclear test 
is one more exam for all of us. We must not allow the 
world  to  plunge  into  a  new  nuclear  arms  race.  Huge 
global instability and ever-growing security challenges 
increasingly  demand  strong  leadership  both  in  States 
and in international organizations. The United Nations 
is no exception.
This  year,  we  will  appoint  the  next  Secretary-
General. I believe that the candidate for this important 
position,  in  addition  to  his  or  her  highly  professional 
skills,  must  be  uncompromising  on  respect  for  the 
Charter of the United Nations and ready to decisively 
use  all  tools  at  his  or  her  disposal,  including  those 
provided under Article 99 of the Charter, in case of a 
threat  to  peace  and  security.  We  expect  that  both  the 
Security Council and the General Assembly will make 
the right choice. Ukraine, as a current non-permanent 
16-29421
25/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
member of the Security Council, will work consistently 
to this end.
This year, we have witnessed a gruesome series of 
terrorist  attacks  in  Afghanistan,  Syria,  Iraq,  Burkina 
Faso, Turkey, Belgium, France, Germany and Ukraine. 
This  list  is  unfortunately  not  even  complete.  The 
tentacles of terrorism are wrapping themselves around 
more countries and continents. It is obvious that such 
a large-scale threat can be confronted effectively only 
through  joint  efforts.  In  this  context,  the  protection 
of  crucial  infrastructure  from  terrorist  attacks  should 
become  our  joint  endeavour.  Banking  and  finance, 
telecommunications,  emergency  services,  air  and 
railway  transportation,  and  energy  and  water  supply 
will all be put at risk. Even worse, terrorist attacks may 
claim numerous victims among civilian populations.
We will continue calling for the Security Council’s 
action  in  response  to  this  growing  problem.  In  this 
regard,  we  welcome  the  initiative  of  the  United 
Kingdom  to  convene  a  Security  Council  ministerial 
meeting to discuss terrorist threats to aviation security 
(see S/PV. 7775). This should be a powerful signal that 
the Council is ready to act resolutely to prevent future 
tragedies — tragedies such as the downing by terrorists 
of  Malaysian  Airlines  Flight  MH-17  over  the  Donbas 
two years ago.
The  scrupulous  technical  investigation  carried 
out by an international team made it possible not only 
to  uncover  details  but  also  to  put  together  the  whole 
picture of this horrible crime. Now we have to ensure 
the  proper  implementation  of  the  Security  Council 
resolution 2166 (2014), regardless of Russia’s shameful 
veto  of  the  decision  to  establish  an  international 
tribunal  under  the  aegis  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
joint  team  —  composed  of  representatives  from 
Malaysia,  the  Netherlands,  Australia,  Belgium  and 
Ukraine  —  continues  the  criminal  investigation.  We 
must set up an efficient mechanism to bring to justice 
all  those  responsible  for  this  catastrophe.  Our  moral 
duty is to ensure that not only the perpetrators but also 
the masterminds of this crime, whose orders killed 298 
innocent  people,  are  punished  appropriately  for  what 
they did.
Since  2014,  Ukraine  has  learned  from  its  own 
tragic  experience  what  foreign-grown  terrorism  feels 
like. The terrorist component of the undeclared hybrid 
warfare  that  Russia  has  waged  against  Ukraine  is 
evident. Dramatically, it has become a daily routine in 
the occupied areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions 
of Ukraine. For over two years, Ukraine has received 
extensive  and 
the  direct 
involvement of Russia, its State agencies and officials 
in  financing,  sponsoring,  and  coordinating  terrorist 
groups  that  have  committed  countless  crimes  against 
my compatriots.
irrefutable  evidence  of 
The  shocking  reality  is  that  there  is  an  illegal 
military  force  of  roughly  38,000  in  Donbas,  and  a 
large  part  of  that  is  irregulars  and  mercenaries  from 
Russia. This force is armed to the teeth by Russia. That 
is  no  exaggeration.  They  have  at  their  disposal  some 
700  tanks,  1,200  armoured  vehicles,  more  than  1,000 
artilery  systems  and  more  than  300  multiple-launch 
rocket  systems.  Russia  keeps  sending  weapons, 
ammunition  and  manpower  to  Ukraine  through  the 
uncontrolled  part  of  the  Ukrainian-Russian  border  by 
road and by rail on a daily basis.
At  the  same  time,  the  Russian  side  continues  to 
insist at all forums, including here at the United Nations, 
that  it  has  nothing  to  do  with  all  of  this  and  that  the 
Russians  are  not  in  Ukraine.  No.  They  are  there  and 
even hypocritical Soviet leaders could hardly compete 
with  the  outright  lies  and  manipulations  deployed  by 
the Kremlin today. Yes, they used to threaten the world 
with  the  use  of  nuclear  weapons,  just  like  Russia  is 
doing  now.  However,  when  shown  the  United  States 
intelligence  aerial  photos,  even  Khruschev  could  not 
but  recognize  that  the  Soviet  missiles  were  stationed 
in Cuba. Today, in response to thousands of available 
photos,  videos,  satellite  images,  eyewitness  and  other 
evidence of the Russian military presence in Donbas, 
Russia  only  repeats  over  and  over  again  its  cynical 
recitation: “We are not there”.
Russia used to say the same about Crimea — “We 
are  not  there”  —  and  then  a  sham  referendum  was 
conducted  at  Russian  gunpoint.  A  few  days  ago,  a 
contradictory  statement  by  the  Russian  President  that 
Crimea  was  annexed  in  accordance  with  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  This  is  hard  to  imagine.  Are 
we  really  refering  to  the  same  Charter?  This  is  not 
merely  disrespect  for  the  centuries-old  principles  of 
international  relations,  written  and  unwritten  legal 
and ethical rules. This is a downgrading of diplomacy 
as such.
I believe that it is time for our Organization to work 
out serious safeguards against abuses of trust of the world 
community  by  some  United  Nations  Member  States. 
26/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
It  is  necessary  to  elaborate  mechanisms  to  officially 
document  evidence  of  the  aggression  of  one  country 
against another and to assign clear responsibility to the 
aggressor, in line with the principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations.
This  is  the  third  year  that  the  aggression  against 
my country continues to bring pain and suffering to the 
Ukrainian people. Some 2,430 people have been killed, 
a  significant  number  of  them  over  the  past  year.  The 
total death toll this year in this war inflicted on us at 
the heart of Europe has amounted to 2,500 members of 
the  military  and  7,500  civilians.  All  together,  10,000 
people have been killed. Hundreds of hostages remain 
in unlawful captivity in Donbas and in Russia.
I  was  shocked  to  learn  that  Russia-backed  illegal 
armed  formations  in  the  occupied  areas  of  Donbas 
recently  took  children  as  hostages.  They  showed  a 
video  of  the  interrogation  of  the  teenagers,  whom 
they  absurdly  accuse  of  conspiring  and  carrying  out 
subversive  operations.  This  behaviour  is  out  of  place 
in  the  twenty-first  century.  We  call  on  UNICEF 
to  intervene  and  prevent  the  abuse  and  torture  of 
these children.
Another  heartbreaking  story  is  one  from  a  few 
days ago. One Ukrainian hostage volunteer, Volodymyr 
Zhemchugov,  was  eventually  set  free.  After  one  year 
in  captivity  without  proper  medical  assistance,  this 
completely blind man without hands said the words that 
are the quintessence of what is happening in Donbas.
“I  am  a  native  of  Donbas,  I  am  an  ethnic 
Russian,  a  former  miner.  But  people  like  me  in 
Donbas,  patriots  of  Ukraine,  were  not  fooled  by 
Russian  propaganda.  We  started  to  resist  Russian 
occupation, to resist the country that set off the war 
against Ukraine.”
However, he expressed the strong belief that soon peace 
would be restored in his native land, Donbas, and that 
people will return to their normal life.
In this regard, I would like to emphasize once again 
that Ukraine remains committed to the settlement of the 
situation in Donbas by political and diplomatic means. 
We  are  a  peaceful  nation.  It  was  never,  under  any 
circumstances, our intention to start any conflicts with 
our neighbour. Over the past year, we have consistently 
demonstrated  in  deed  that  we  are  ready  to  move 
forward  on  implementation  of  the  Minsk  agreements, 
the  comprehensive  peace  plan  agreed  in  September 
2014 and confirmed in February 2015.
Yet, we have constantly faced the resistance of the 
Kremlin  and  its  proxies,  who  do  their  best  to  delay 
the  peace  process  and  to  shift  responsibility  for  their 
own  destructive  actions  onto  Ukraine.  We  rely  on 
Russia to abandon this approach to give a chance to the 
comprehensive settlement. Let me stress again that the 
Minsk documents entail, by and large, clear guidelines 
for each side on what must be done. Ukraine has done 
a  lot  and  will  continue  doing  its  part.  Now  it  is  time 
for Russia and its proxies in the Ukrainian Donbas to 
start implementing their part. Set the captives free, stop 
shooting, withdraw weapons, let the inspectors of the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
carry out their mandate and watch over the Ukrainian-
Russian border without any objection or any hindrance, 
and  withdraw  Russian  weaponry  and  regular  and 
irregular military units.
The occupying State does not limit itself to combat 
actions in Donbas only. It also carries on its repressive 
policy  in  Crimea.  Once  thriving  and  free,  now  the 
Crimean  peninsula  has  become  a  grey  zone  where 
people  are  effectively  deprived  of  all  protection.  The 
judicial and penitentiary systems in Crimea have been 
converted  by  Russia  into  a  tool  of  repression.  As  has 
been already the case so many times in history, most 
of the victims are Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians.The 
latest addition to this picture is the ban by the Russian 
occupation authorities on the activities of the Mejlis, the 
self-governing body of the Crimean Tatar people. Add 
to this the arbitrary detention of Ilmi Umerov, Deputy 
Head of the Mejlis, in a psychiatric facility for 20 days. 
In fact, the outrageous practice of punitive psychiatry, 
which  had  been  widely  used  by  the  Soviet  repressive 
machinery, is now back in service for Russia.
We  urge  Russia  to  grant  unimpeded  access  to 
international  human  rights  organizations,  both  in 
Crimea and Donbas, and to implement the decision of the 
UNESCO Executive Board on establishing monitoring 
in  Crimea  at  the  institutional  level.  The  residents  of 
the  peninsula  must  be  protected  from  discrimination 
and  repression.  The  genocide  of  the  Crimean  Tatar 
people, who already experienced the tragedy of forced 
deportation 70 years ago, must not be repeated.
In Ukraine, we highly appreciate the contribution 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human 
Rights and the United Nations Human Rights Council 
16-29421
27/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
to  addressing  the  current  human  rights  situation  in 
my country, including in occupied Crimea. This year, 
we  intend  to  bring  this  matter  to  the  attention  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  to  submit  a  relevant  draft 
resolution on the human rights situation in the territory 
of  the  occupied  Autonomous  Republic  of  Crimea 
and  the  city  of  Sevastopol.  This  draft  resolution  will 
become  an  impartial  assessment  of  the  human  rights 
situation in the occupied territories by the entire United 
Nations family.
People  in  these  territories  have  the  right  to  be 
protected. Their children have the right to be protected. 
And  it  is  our  responsibility,  as  the  United  Nations, 
to  protect  them.  I  appeal  to  all  Member  States  of  the 
United Nations to support the initiative of Ukraine. We 
also urge Member States not to recognize the legitimacy 
of the Russian elections that were held a few days ago 
in the occupied Crimea. If they do recognize them, it 
will play into the hands of the aggressor and encourage 
further repression.
One more problem arising from Russia’s occupation 
of  Crimea  is  its  intentions  to  deploy  tactical  nuclear 
weapons  and  their  means  of  delivery  in  the  occupied 
peninsula. This would destroy the global system of the 
non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and 
brutally violate Ukraine’s non-nuclear status. Moreover, 
Russia uses temporarily occupied Crimea to project its 
aggressive policies not only in Ukraine, but also in other 
corners  of  the  world,  including  in  Syria,  where  these 
policies go hand in hand with war crimes and crimes 
against humanity. Today, the entire democratic world is 
deeply concerned over the human rights violations and 
dire suffering of the civilian population in Syria.
I believe that the full implementation of the 2012 
Geneva communiqué (S/2012/522, annex) and Security 
Council resolution 2254 (2015) is vital for the settlement 
of  that  protracted  and  bloody  conflict.  We  draw 
particular  attention  to  the  need  to  remove  the  threat 
of  the  use  of  chemical  weapons  in  this  country.  Our 
urgent priority is to improve the humanitarian situation 
and ensure the access of the international humanitarian 
organizations  to  Aleppo  and  other  cities  in  need.  We 
welcome  the  special  meeting  of  the  Security  Council 
on  Syria  this  morning  (see  S/PV.7774),  where  I  had 
an opportunity to express our views on this important 
issue. I hope that this discussion will lead to meaningful 
decisions  and  tangible  steps  towards  alleviating  the 
plight of Syrians and bringing about peace.
Africa  is  yet  another  continent  that  continues  to 
suffer from numerous unresolved conflicts and requires 
our  particular  attention.  It  should  finally  be  seen  for 
what it really is — a continent with untapped potential 
and  opportunities  for  the  rest  of  the  world  rather 
than  the  burden  it  was  for  decades,  after  centuries  of 
colonialism and exploitation. My country will spare no 
effort to support the African continent, and our African 
partners can fully count on Ukraine, including within 
the Security Council.
Despite  the  ongoing  challenges  facing  Ukraine, 
my  country  is  fully  committed  to  implementing  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  adopted  by 
the  General  Assembly  last  year.  We  will  continue  to 
work  to  fulfil  our  SDG  commitments  at  the  national 
level,  particularly  those  related  to  ensuring  a  healthy 
environment  and  a 
supply, 
promoting  gender  equality  and  fighting  corruption. 
As a member of the Friends on Climate Change group, 
Ukraine  contributed  to  reaching  consensus  on  the 
universal agreement on climate change. We completed 
the  ratification  procedures  for  the  Paris  Agreement 
in  a  very  short  time  and  deposited  our  ratification 
instrument during today’s high-level event.
sustainable  energy 
This year, we also reached an important milestone, 
the  completion  of  the  United  Nations  Action  Plan 
on  Chernobyl,  as  well  as  the  end  of  the  Decade 
of  Recovery  and  Sustainable  Development  of  the 
Affected  Regions.  However,  there  is  a  clear  need  for 
continued  international  efforts  to  mitigate  the  impact 
of the disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and 
complete the various projects.
I  am  pleased  to  note  that  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development 
addresses  migration, 
currently  one  of  the  world’s  biggest  problems.  In 
recent  years,  we  have  witnessed  unprecedented  mass 
movements of refugees, asylum-seekers, migrants and 
internally  displaced  persons  (IDPs).  It  seems  hard  to 
imagine, but today there are roughly 65 million forcibly 
displaced  persons  around  the  world,  including  more 
than 21 million refugees, 3 million asylum-seekers and 
41 million internally displaced persons. Unfortunately, 
those IDPs include some 1.8 million of my compatriots 
who  have  fled  the  Donbas  region,  which  has  been 
occupied and devastated by Russia.
Unquestionably,  our  main  responsibility  is  saving 
our  people’s  lives  and  protecting  those  in  need. 
However, to come up with a comprehensive response to 
28/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
that global challenge, we must address its root causes. 
They  include,  first  and  foremost,  armed  conflict, 
terrorism,  sectarianism  and  poverty.  The  New  York 
Declaration  for  Refugees  and  Migrants,  which  the 
Assembly  just  adopted  as  resolution  71/1,  is  a  first 
step in that direction. My Government is committed to 
protecting its IDPs and has taken important measures 
to strengthen its national response mechanisms, paying 
special attention to ensuring that IDPs have the means 
to live, as well as improving their access to health care, 
education, housing and employment.
Seventy  years  ago,  Winston  Churchill,  one  of 
the  founding  fathers  of  the  United  Nations,  said  at 
Westminster College in Fulton, Missouri:
“Our difficulties and dangers will not be removed 
by  closing  our  eyes  to  them.  They  will  not  be 
removed by mere waiting to see what happens; nor 
will they be removed by a policy of appeasement.”
Those  words  have  not  lost  their  relevance  today. 
Churchill’s  vision  of  the  United  Nations  as  a  vital 
sinew of peace and an essential policy foundation for 
international relations that must confront the two giant 
marauders, war and tyranny, acquires a new reading for 
our times. He called for us to
“adhere  faithfully  to  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  walk  forward  in  sedate  and  sober 
strength seeking no one’s land or treasure, seeking 
to  lay  no  arbitrary  control  upon  the  thoughts 
of men”.
I hope that approach will continue to be a powerful 
guide for all of us. Moreover, it is the only possible way 
to preserve our unique Organization and save the world 
from a new global catastrophe.
The Acting President: On behalf of the Assembly, I 
wish to thank the President of Ukraine for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. William Ruto, Vice-President 
of the Republic of Kenya
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Vice-President of the Republic 
of Kenya.
Mr. William Ruto, Vice-President of the Republic of 
Kenya, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  William  Ruto,  Vice- 
President of the Republic of Kenya, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly.
Mr.  Ruto  (Kenya):  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
the President on his well-deserved election to lead the 
General Assembly at its seventy-first session.
Seventy-one years after the founding of the United 
Nations, we have made significant progress in human 
development. Inspired by the guarantees in the Charter 
of the United Nations, people across the world, and in 
Africa  in  particular,  have  achieved  freedom  and  self-
determination while expanding democracy. Thanks to 
the international community’s advances in technology 
and  collective  action,  the  world  has  made  remarkable 
strides in health care, education and agriculture and has 
eliminated a number of killer diseases. The Cold War is 
behind us, paving the way for greater opportunities for 
global  synergy.  Even  among  younger  nations  such  as 
Kenya, technological innovations such as M-Pesa, our 
mobile  phone-based  platform  for  money  transfer  and 
financial services, are leapfrogging us into the future, 
promising greater prosperity and integration.
Yet despite such remarkable strides, human progress 
is still constrained by a gamut of challenges — inequality 
within  and  between  nations  and  regions,  prosperity 
that does not translate into prosperity for all, poverty, 
violations  of  human  rights,  instability  and  growing 
environmental  fragility.  Such  momentous  challenges 
call for a collective effort on the part of the community 
of nations.
Today,  Africa’s  global  trade  stands  at  3  per  cent 
of the world’s total. It consists primarily of crude oil, 
which accounts for 50 per cent, while the remainder is 
divided between unprocessed minerals and agricultural 
raw  materials.  Meanwhile,  Africa’s  population  is 
set  to  surpass  that  of  India  and  China  combined  by 
16-29421
29/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
2050.  Unless  our  trade  imbalance  is  reversed,  as  a 
matter  of  urgency,  it  will  accentuate  vulnerability, 
enhance poverty and increase the risk of insecurity and 
instability for both Africa and the rest of the world. We 
need to reverse those trends and imbalances.
The  global  community,  cognizant  of 
those 
challenges,  has  made  important  commitments  by 
concluding agreements on the Sustainable Development 
Goals,  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  and 
the  Addis  Ababa  agreement  on  the  African  Union’s 
Agenda  2063.  For  our  part,  Kenya  has  continued  to 
play  an  active  role  in  leading  international  efforts.  In 
the  course  of  2016,  we  have  hosted  three  important 
international conferences seeking sustainable solutions 
to global challenges.
First,  we  hosted 
the  second  United  Nations 
Environment  Assembly  in  May  to  discuss  current 
challenges to our global environment. Secondly, Kenya 
hosted  the  fourteenth  session  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  in  July.  The 
Conference focused on pressing issues related to global 
trade  and  economic  development.  Thirdly,  just  in  the 
past  month,  in  August,  alongside  Japan,  the  African 
Union,  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
and  the  World  Bank  Group,  we  co-hosted  in  Nairobi 
the  sixth  Tokyo  International  Conference  on  African 
Development.  The  Conference  addressed  specific 
concerns  on  how  to  speed  up  economic  growth, 
investment and development in Africa in order to help 
eradicate  poverty  and  promote  shared  prosperity.  We 
forged  good  outcomes  from  all  three  conferences.  I 
have no doubt that if implemented in full, each of the 
recommendations made would go a long way towards 
transforming the world we live in.
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development during the seventieth session ushered in 
a  new  era  of  international  development  cooperation 
and development. The Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) reflect our ambition and hope for a better future 
for ourselves and for our children. We expect that the 
implementation of the SDGs will result in transformed 
societies, 
improved  environmental  and  climatic 
conditions and global sustained economic growth. For 
that to happen, however, we also believe that we must 
eradicate the poverty in our midst by building a fairer 
global trading system and a more equitable distribution 
of wealth within and among countries.
remain  at 
the  core  of 
It  is  our  belief  and  expectation  that  international 
cooperation  will 
the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda. We therefore note 
the  importance  of  global  partnerships,  particularly 
the  Global  Partnership  for  Effective  Development 
Cooperation. The Partnership has a special role to play 
in  accelerating  the  delivery  of  development  outcomes 
as  effectively,  fairly  and  efficiently  as  possible,  with 
particular attention to the least developed countries. We 
therefore look forward to the second high-level meeting 
of  the  Global  Partnership  for  Effective  Development 
Cooperation  that  will  take  place  in  Nairobi  later  this 
year.  I  extend  a  warm  welcome  to  all  Member  States 
to attend.
There are certain priorities that the Government of 
Kenya  attaches  great  importance  to  in  implementing 
the  Kenya  Vision  2030,  the  United  Nations  2030 
Agenda,  and 
the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063. 
Among  those  priorities  are  issues  of  youth,  women 
and  persons  with  disabilities.  As  is  the  case  with  
Governments  in  developing  countries,  the  challenge 
of  integrating  youth  and  women  in  our  societies  and 
economies  remains  a  daunting  one,  but  the  evidence 
for us is clear. If we do not succeed at mainstreaming 
gender and integrating youth into our vision, goals and 
agendas, we shall fall miserably short of our ambitions. 
That is why Kenya continues to remain focused on the 
priorities of youth and women, including building and 
financing special programmes for their full integration 
and mainstreaming
 In a related matter, the remarkable achievements 
of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria  are  noteworthy.  That  is  why  the  Government 
last  week  pledged  $5  million 
the  fifth 
replenishment  cycle  of  the  Global  Fund.  Moreover, 
we also pledged $500,000 to the Joint United Nations 
Programme on HIV/AIDS. 
towards 
We are acutely aware that the challenges we face in 
achieving our aspirations are not only political, economic 
and  social,  but  also  environmental  and  climatic.  The 
conservation  of  all  wildlife  and  marine  life,  as  well 
as  the  conservation  and  protection  of  our  oceans, 
lakes and land ecosystems, including forests and trees 
outside forests, matters considerably to our future. Our 
food  security  and  economic  prosperity  —  essentially, 
our lives — are tied to those matters, which is why we 
continue  to  pay  great  attention  to  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea, the United Nations 
30/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
forest instruments and the Convention for International 
Trade in Endangered Species.
Kenya  welcomes  the  ongoing  preparations  for 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Housing  and 
Sustainable Urban Development (Habitat III). We look 
forward  to  the  Conference  and  subsequent  adoption 
and  implementation  of  the  new  urban  agenda  for  the 
twenty-first century. Kenya recognizes that the future 
of cities is fully integrated into the achievement of our 
own Vision 2030 and the United Nations 2030 Agenda. 
We also believe that a stronger United Nations Habitat 
is  crucial  to  helping  guide  the  rapid  urbanization  we 
are witnessing across the globe. How the international 
community continues to support the Organization and 
how  we  handle  cities  throughout  the  world  will  be 
integral to the success of the 2030 Agenda.
Today,  our  world  is  confronted  by  large-scale 
instability and fragility, which are causing unprecedented 
human suffering and forced displacement. Furthermore, 
new  security  threats  —  including  violent  extremism, 
terrorism  and  radicalization  —  threaten  to  roll  back 
the gains we have made so far. In the Horn of Africa, 
those  factors,  together  with  ecological  fragility  and 
natural disasters in the face of scarce resources, have 
complicated the pursuit of development.
Kenya  welcomes  the  adoption  of  the  New  York 
Declaration for Refugees and Migrants (resolution 71/1) 
and  the  envisaged  comprehensive  refugee  response 
framework  that  will  guide  the  humanitarian  response 
in a more humane, sensitive, timely and compassionate 
manner. We also take note of and applaud the Secretary-
General’s convening of the World Humanitarian Summit 
in  May,  which  refocused  the  world’s  attention  on  the 
plight  of  refugees,  migrants  and  internally  displaced 
persons. Kenya commits its availability to participate, 
as always, in discussions that will guide and give a firm 
way forward to that endeavour.
For the past two and a half decades, the region has 
been  seized  with  a  situation  in  Somalia.  Throughout 
that  time,  Kenya  has  stood  with  Somalia,  provided  a 
safe haven for refugees, joined peacekeeping missions 
and invested heavily in resources to combat Al-Shabaab 
and 
to 
substantially weaken Al-Shabaab, liberate large swaths 
of  land  in  Somalia  and  provide  space  for  the  Somali 
Government  to  begin  the  journey  of  rehabilitation 
and reconstruction.
its  affiliates.  That  solidarity  has  helped 
It is in that context that the Government of Somalia 
has  strongly  expressed  its  willingness  to  receive  its 
citizens who are currently refugees — not just in Kenya, 
but in other parts of the world. For its part, Kenya has 
committed to $10 million this year to support the safe, 
orderly,  voluntary  and  dignified  repatriation  of  more 
than 400,000 Somali refugees living in Kenya. Sadly, 
the  efforts  of  the  region  and  of  Somalia’s  neighbours 
have  not  been  matched  by  the  commitment  of  the 
international community.
Instead of supporting that regional effort this year, 
our partners, including the European Union, cut support 
for the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) 
by 20 per cent, while security experts were suggesting 
a budgetary increase for AMISOM in order to procure 
ground  troops  to  secure  Somalia.  Despite  repeated 
appeals,  the  Security  Council  has  failed  to  provide 
adequate,  predictable  funding  or  force  multipliers 
for  AMISOM.  I  once  again  implore  members  of  the 
Security Council to take the matter seriously and align 
the mandate of AMISOM to the threat levels in Somalia 
on land, air and sea.
With  regard 
repatriation  efforts. 
It 
to  repatriation,  since  2012 
the 
international  community  has  pledged  upwards  of 
$500  million  to  support  Somalia  in  its  reconstruction 
and 
than 
under  2  per  cent  has  been  received.  That  failure  of 
solidarity  has  placed  a  disproportionate  burden  on 
Somalia’s  neighbours  and  risks  undermining  all 
efforts  concerning  refugees,  helping  Somalia  rebuild 
and  managing  the  ongoing  elements  of  terrorism  and 
extreme radicalization.
is  unfortunate 
As  Somalia  moves  into  its  next  phase  of  political 
transformation,  the  Vision  2016  programme  remains 
the best course of action for the country. However, the 
success  of  the  post-2016  period  will  largely  depend 
on  how  the  current  electoral  process  is  managed. 
Somalia  requires  the  full  support  and  commitment  of 
the  international  community  in  order  to  complete  the 
process of political transition that will set the stage for 
a peaceful and prosperous Somalia.
The  road  to  peace  and  security  in  South  Sudan 
has  been  long  and  difficult.  Sadly,  recent  events  and 
developments threaten to plunge the country, and indeed 
the entire region, into a security and humanitarian crisis. 
Kenya, as a guarantor of the 2005 Comprehensive Peace 
Agreement and the 2015 Agreement on the Resolution 
of  the  Conflict  in  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan,  has 
16-29421
31/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
been spearheading the search for sustainable peace and 
continues to make significant investments in efforts to 
build peace in South Sudan.
I  call  upon  the  parties  to  the  Agreement  on  the 
Resolution of Conflict in the Republic of South Sudan 
to honour their commitment and work towards its full 
implementation. That is the only basis for durable peace 
and reconciliation in that troubled country. The efforts 
of  the  Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development 
(IGAD),  buttressed  by  the  African  Union  Peace  and 
Security  Council,  have  been  vital  to  these  processes. 
The  history  of  conflict  resolution  demonstrates  that 
regional  mechanisms  are  the  best  avenues  towards 
sustainable  outcomes.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that 
the  international  community  channel  its  efforts  and 
support through IGAD.
Last year, here at the United Nations, Kenya made 
pledges during the Leaders’ Summit on Peacekeeping. 
I  would  like  to  confirm  today  that  Kenya  has  indeed 
lived up to every pledge it made. The first engineering 
capability  troop  training  for  African  peacekeepers  is 
ready  and  has  been  completed  in  Nairobi.  That  was 
done with the collaboration of our own Kenyan defence 
forces  and  the  United  Nations  and  with  support  from 
the good Governments of Japan and Switzerland.
Kenya  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  continuing 
training  facilities  for  United  Nations 
to  provide 
programmes, as part of its pledge to strengthen United 
Nations peacekeeping operations. Kenya, as the current 
Chair  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  has  been  at 
the  forefront  of  advocating  for  a  new  peacebuilding 
architecture  for  sustainable  peace  throughout  the 
world.  That  is  why,  later  today,  Kenya  will  co-host  a 
pledging  conference  to  boost  the  Secretary-General’s 
Peacebuilding Fund. For us, the message is clear — if 
we are to ever enjoy a peaceful world for all, we cannot 
invest  any  less  in  peacebuilding  than  we  do  in 
peacekeeping.  Today,  in  the  pledging  conference,  the 
Government  of  Kenya  will  pledge  $100,000  to  the 
Peacebuilding Fund.
While  we  build  the  peacebuilding  architecture, 
we must also dedicate greater efforts to rebuilding and 
transforming the United Nations system as a whole. We 
need to transform our global Organization into a more 
effective and responsive entity that reflects the complex 
challenges and realities of the twenty-first century.
With  regard  to  the  Security  Council,  Kenya,  as  a 
member  of  the  Committee  of  Ten  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  on  the  Reform  of  the  United  Nations 
Security  Council,  is  deeply  concerned  that  progress 
towards  addressing  the  historical  injustice  in  the 
representation of the African continent and its people 
on the Council remains not only slow but unpromising.
The  seventy-first  session  must  achieve  greater 
progress on that matter. I take this opportunity to request 
that  President  Thomson  prioritize  the  appointment  of 
the  next  chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform,  who  will  preside  over  a 
year of real progress on that matter. It cannot be that, 
in  a  world  where  democracy  is  the  standard  norm 
and  accepted  practice,  the  single  largest  body  in  the 
world, the United Nations, plays by different rules. It 
cannot be that one or two or five individuals can hold 
ransom the seven billion people living in the world. It 
is accepted that democracy is the basic standard for any 
meaningful engagement in any part of the world, in any 
country or any self-respecting organization.
In 
the  same 
light,  we  urge 
the  continued 
strengthening of the United Nations global footprint in 
general and of the United Nations Office in Nairobi in 
particular. That will increase the relevance of the United 
Nations and enhance its legitimacy in the global South. 
Similarly,  the  seventy-first  session  must  remain 
seized of the two-State solution as the best way out of 
the Palestinian-Israeli crisis. Kenya supports the vision 
of  two  peaceful,  prosperous,  brotherly  States  living 
side by side.
Finally, after ten highly successful years, the time 
has come for us to bid farewell to Mr. Ban Ki-moon as 
Secretary-General. Mr. Ban has been a great steward of 
the  international  community,  a  humble  and  dedicated 
Secretary-General to Member States, a standard bearer 
of human rights, a champion of development and climate 
change and a friend of not just Africa, but Kenya. On 
behalf of the Government and people of Kenya, I wish 
to extend our sincere gratitude to him for his friendship 
and his hard work. We wish him and his wife well in 
their future pursuits.
As the international community now finally moves 
onto the last stage of selecting a new Secretary-General, 
it  is  my  fervent  hope  that  the  Security  Council  will 
exercise its responsibility in selecting a new Secretary-
General  in  a  manner  that  will  reflect  our  collective 
concerns for the development agenda, for world peace 
and cohesion and for the key challenges that continue to 
32/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
face our collective enterprise of building a better world 
and a better future for all of us and for our children.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Kenya for the statement he has just made.
Mr. William Ruto, Vice-President of the Republic of 
Kenya, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Royal Highness Prince 
Mohammed bin Naif bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, 
Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Crown Prince of the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia.
His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Naif bin 
Abdulaziz Al-Saud, Crown Prince of the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Mohammed 
bin Naif bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, Crown Prince of the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly.
Prince  Mohammed  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  At  the  outset,  it  gives  me  great  pleasure  to 
congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  on 
his  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  seventy-first  session.  I  wish  him  every  success  in 
his endeavours.
Since  its  participation  in  the  establishment  of  the 
United Nations, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has made 
every possible effort to achieve the noble purposes to 
which we all aspire. Today, under the leadership of His 
Majesty King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, we are 
doing  our  utmost  to  contribute  to  the  maintenance  of 
peace, security and stability, not only in our region but 
throughout the world.
We attach great importance to combating terrorism. 
We  were  the  among  the  earliest  victims  of  terrorism. 
In 1992, we were subjected to more than 100 terrorist 
operations,  including  18  operations  perpetrated  by 
elements  linked  to  a  country  of  the  region.  Even 
before the events of September 11 2001, the Kingdom 
worked  on  an  agreement  among  Arab  countries  to 
combat  terrorism.  We  have  been  and  are  still  waging 
a war to combat terrorist organizations. We have also 
joined  more  than  12  international  agreements,  and, 
in  partnership  with  the  United  States  and  Italy,  we 
are  co-chairing  the  Global  Coalition  to  Counter  the 
Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  the  Levant.  Moreover,  in 
order  to  rectify  the  extremist  thinking  among  some 
individuals,  we  have  established  the  Mohammed  bin 
Naif Counseling and Care Center to provide care and to 
criminalize terrorism and its funding.
The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  is  home  to  many 
Islamic religious sites. We were the first to condemn the 
terrorist attacks of 11 September. We have expressed our 
solidarity with the United States and we have sought to 
uproot terrorism. Security forces in the Kingdom have 
been  able  to  uncover  268  terrorist  operations  before 
they  took  place,  including  operations  against  friendly 
countries. We find it odd that in the United States there 
is  an  attempt  to  ratify  a  law  on  sovereign  immunity, 
which will have negative repercussions.
that 
fighting 
terrorism 
We  believe 
requires 
international  participation  and  an 
international 
partnership. We need concerted efforts at all levels in 
order to counter terrorism at the security, intellectual, 
financial and military levels. We also stress that fighting 
terrorism requires cooperation based on the rules and 
principles for which this Organization was established.
We also wish to commend the role of the Islamic 
military  coalition  to  combat  terrorism,  which  was 
established  in  Riyadh  by  40  Islamic  countries.  We 
have provided all possible support and facilities to the 
command centre so that it can lead the efforts to combat 
terrorism.  We  hope  the  international  community  will 
participate  in  supporting  this  international  centre  to 
combat terrorism.
The international community must take all possible 
measures to put an end to the ongoing suffering of the 
Palestinian  people.  We  believe  that  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative should form the basis for restoring peace to 
the  region  in  order  to  enable  the  Palestinian  people 
to  exercise  their  legitimate  rights  and  establish  an 
independent  State  with  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  We 
also  condemn  Israeli  aggressions  and  attacks  against 
Al-Aqsa  mosque  and  the  construction  work  that 
threatens the sanctity of the mosque.
The coalition forces that support Yemen’s legitimacy 
have sought to help the Yemeni people. The international 
community has rejected what the rebels are attempting 
to do. The Kingdom supports the efforts of the Special 
Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General  to  reach  a  political 
resolution  based  on  Security  Council  resolution  2216 
16-29421
33/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
(2015), the initiative of the Gulf Cooperation Council 
and the outcomes of the Yemen National Dialogue. The 
legitimate Government accepted this proposal, but the 
rebels rejected it and they continue to threaten and kill 
innocent civilians. 
We  are  the  biggest  supporter  of  humanitarian 
operations in Yemen. We have provided humanitarian 
and development assistance, amounting to about 2 per 
cent of our income, to 95 countries. That is in addition 
to our humanitarian work for which purpose we have 
established  the  King  Salman  Humanitarian  Aid  and 
Relief Centre.
The crisis in Syria has left hundreds of thousands 
of people dead and injured, displaced millions and calls 
on  us  all  to  put  an  end  to  an  unprecedented  tragedy. 
Based on the first Geneva conference on the crisis in 
Syria, it is high time to find a political solution to the 
crisis  that  would  ensure  Syria’s  unity  and  maintain 
its  institutions.  Since  the  beginning  of  the  crisis,  the 
Kingdom  has  opened  its  doors  to  host  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  Syrians,  not  as  refugees  in  camps  but 
on  the  basis  of  brotherly  and  ethical  principles  in 
order  to  maintain  their  dignity  and  safety.  We  have 
provided  them  with  all  of  the  necessary  facilities,  as 
well as health care. We also provided them with job and 
education opportunities.
We  call  on  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  Libya  to 
continue to rebuild their State and confront the terrorist 
groups. With regard to Iraq, we stress that it is important 
to maintain Iraq’s unity and territorial integrity and rid 
the  country  of  all  terrorist  groups.  We  condemn  any 
activity that leads to strife and violence. 
Our  embassy  in  Tehran  and  our  consulate  in 
Mashhad were the targets of attacks under the watchful 
eye of the Iranian authorities. They have not provided us 
with sufficient protection, as stipulated in international 
agreements. We therefore call on the Iranian authorities 
to assume their responsibility in that regard. We seek 
good  relations  with  Iran  based  on  the  principles  of 
good-neighbourliness  and  non-interference  in  other 
countries’  internal  affairs.  We  call  for  the  end  of  the 
Iranian occupation of the three Emirati islands
We assert that all nuclear weapons and weapons of 
mass destruction must be eliminated from the Middle 
East  and  that  a  date  must  be  set  for  the  international 
conference  to  create  a  Middle  East  free  of  nuclear 
weapons. The Kingdom is committed to the promotion 
and protection of human rights, in accordance with the 
principles of Islam. We call for the adoption of policies 
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
We  also  need  to  look  at  sources  of  energy  as 
complementary and not as alternatives to other energy 
sources  and  in  a  way  that  would  ensure  sustainable 
development  for  all.  In  that  regard,  we  note  that  the 
Kingdom  has  invested  in  developing  new  carbon 
capture technology in our effort to protect and preserve 
the environment. 
We would also like to highlight the importance of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development that was 
ratified  by  the  General  Assembly  last  year.  We  have 
launched our vision for 2030, which is based on the main 
principles  of  the  2030  Agenda,  on  Arab  and  Islamic 
cultures and traditions and on our geographic location. 
That  vision  is  aimed  at  advancing  our  economy  and 
achieved development in the fields of energy, industry, 
health, education, tourism and other fields. 
In  order  to  increase  our  non-oil  exports  and 
create  the  necessary  conditions  to  attract  local  and 
international investment, we have also worked with the 
private sector so that it could become the State’s main 
partner.  We  have  also  provided  essential  services  in 
health, education and housing. 
We  will  spare  no  effort  in  working  with  the 
international community in order to achieve the good 
of humankind. We will continue to play our role at the 
humanitarian,  political  and  economic  levels.  We  will 
also  seek  to  reform  United  Nations  agencies  and  are 
confident that the Organization will be able to respond 
to tomorrow’s challenges so that future generations will 
enjoy peace, security and stability.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Crown  Prince  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Naif bin 
Abdulaziz Al-Saud, Crown Prince of the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak 
Al-Hamad Al Sabah, Prime Minister of the 
State of Kuwait
The  Acting  President: The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  State 
of Kuwait.
34/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
His Highness Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Hamad 
Al  Sabah, Prime  Minister  of  the  State  of  Kuwait, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Highness  Sheikh  Jaber  Al-Mubarak 
Al-Hamad  Al  Sabah,  Prime  Minister  of  the  State  of 
Kuwait, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Sheikh Al Sabah (Kuwait)(spoke in Arabic): At the 
outset, I would like to extend our sincere congratulations 
to the President and his country, the Republic of Fiji, on 
his election to preside over the General Assembly at its 
seventy-first session, and to assure him of my country’s 
full cooperation as he shoulders a great responsibility. 
I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  his 
predecessor, Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, for his efforts and 
his  success  in  presiding  over  the  discussions  of  the 
previous session.
like 
to  sincerely 
We  would  also 
thank  His 
Excellency  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  whose 
mandate will expire at the end of the year. He has spent 
almost a decade at the helm of the Organization and has 
worked diligently and honestly to promote international 
peace and security. He has played a prominent role in 
enhancing the performance of the organs of the United 
Nations  and  in  achieving  major  milestones,  such  as 
the  adoption  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
and  the  signing  of  the  global  agreement  on  climate 
change.  We  would  like  to  wish  His  Excellency  every 
success  in  his  future  endeavours  and  look  forward  to 
his  continued  service  to  the  causes  of  security,  peace 
and development.
At  this  new  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  we 
convene under the theme “The Sustainable Development 
Goals: a universal push to transform our world” amid 
unprecedented security and economic challenges. That 
will require greater coordination and the doubling of our 
efforts to overcome such challenges, limit their impact 
and address their root causes. In that regard, the State 
of  Kuwait  welcomes  the  two  historic  agreements  on 
climate change, signed by Kuwait at this very rostrum 
in  April,  and  the  comprehensive  and  inclusive  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  whose  Goals 
we  hope  will  be  achieved.  We  pledge  to  make  every 
effort  to  contribute  effectively  within  the  framework 
of an international partnership to fully implement the 
Sustainable Development Goals over the next 14 years.
As we stand in support of the developing countries 
and the least developed countries, the State of Kuwait 
firmly  believes  that  countries  afflicted  by  natural 
disasters  and  those  affected  by  the  scourge  of  war 
need to be assisted. That should be done in a manner 
ensuring the enhancement of the relations Kuwait has 
had with the peoples and countries of the world since 
it  attained  its  independence  in  1961.  It  has  set  out  a 
consistent  approach  according  to  which  it  stands  by 
the  developing  and  least  developed  countries.  Kuwait 
has  attained  a  prestigious  standing  among  donors 
providing  humanitarian  assistance  as  a  consequence 
of its initiatives and continued response to the appeals 
launched  by  the  United  Nations  and  its  specialized 
agencies to alleviate the suffering of affected peoples 
and  countries  throughout  the  world,  thereby  helping 
them cope with their crises. 
Kuwait  is  also  eager  to  achieve  a  world  in  which 
justice and equality prevail in support of human values 
and  where  the  haves  unconditionally  provide  for  the 
deserving  have-nots.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to 
reiterate  Kuwait’s  intention  to  honour  all  its  pledges 
made at international conferences.
Kuwait is proud to occupy first place in the provision 
of humanitarian assistance as a ratio of its gross domestic 
income, according to United Nations statistics for 2015. 
Kuwait takes pride in such recognition, and the Kuwait 
Fund  for  Arab  Economic  Development  continues 
to  play  a  pioneering  role  in  providing  soft  loans  and 
grants, representing approximately $20 billion, to fund 
development  programmes,  which  have  benefited  105 
countries in various parts of the world.
Consistently  adhering  to  the  noble  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
State  of  Kuwait  has  worked  towards  achieving  and 
laying  down  the  foundations  of  security  and  stability 
in  our  region  through  participating  in  all  efforts  that 
contribute to the promotion of international peace and 
security.  In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to  refer  to 
the  crisis  in  Yemen  and  to  renew  our  support  for  the 
political  solution  brokered  by  the  United  Nations  in 
accordance with the outcome of the national dialogue, 
the  initiative  of  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council,  its 
implementation  mechanism,  and  Security  Council 
resolution 2216 (2015). The State of Kuwait hosted the 
Yemeni  peace  talks  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations  from  April  to  August  in  order  to  restore 
security  and  stability  in  Yemen  while  preserving  its 
independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity.
16-29421
35/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
We  take  this  opportunity  to  renew  our  praise  of 
and  support  for  the  efforts  undertaken  by  the  Special 
Envoy of the Secretary-General for Yemen, Mr. Ismail 
Ould  Cheikh  Ahmad,  and  call  upon  him  to  intensify 
those  efforts  for  the  prompt  resumption  of  dialogue 
between  the  Yemeni  parties  under  the  aegis  of  the 
United Nations.
In  Syria,  we  are  following  with  concern  the 
ongoing  crisis,  which  is  now  entering  its  sixth  year, 
and the worsening conditions throughout the country. 
The deteriorating humanitarian situation has displaced 
13  million  Syrians  within  and  beyond  the  country’s 
borders, making the Syrian people the largest refugee 
community in the world. The number of those who have 
been killed now exceeds 250,000. We strongly condemn 
the  intentional  targeting  of  residential  areas  and  civil 
and  medical  facilities,  indiscriminate  bombing,  and 
the  use  of  barrel  bombs  and  internationally  banned 
weapons.  We  also  demand  that  all  those  responsible 
for  perpetrating  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity be brought to justice within the international 
justice system.
Driven  by  its  desire  to  alleviate  the  suffering 
of  the  Syrian  people,  the  State  of  Kuwait  has  hosted 
three  international  pledging  conferences  to  support 
humanitarian  efforts  in  Syria.  Pledges  totalled  more 
than  $7  billion,  of  which  my  country  contributed 
$1.3  billion.  The  largest  share  of  those  pledges  has 
been  allotted  to  United  Nations  specialized  agencies 
and 
non-governmental 
organizations  dealing  with  humanitarian  affairs.  That 
effort complements Kuwait’s participation as co-host of 
the fourth Supporting Syria and the Region conference, 
held in London early this year.
intergovernmental 
and 
The  State  of  Kuwait  reiterates  its  support  for 
United  Nations  and  other  international  efforts  aimed 
at reaching a political solution in Syria in accordance 
with  Security  Council  resolution  2254  (2015),  which 
charted  a  clear  path  for  the  political  solution  based 
on the 2012 Geneva communiqué (S/2012/522, annex) 
and  the  two  Vienna  communiqués.  I  also  commend 
the  efforts  of  the  United  States  of  America  and  the 
Russian Federation to reach a ceasefire that would pave 
the way for political talks among the Syrian parties to 
reach a settlement that would preserve the sovereignty, 
unity,  territorial  integrity  and  independence  of  Syria, 
realizing  the  legitimate  hopes  and  aspirations  of  the 
brotherly Syrian people.
International  efforts  have  been  carried  out  to 
combat  the  phenomena  of  terrorism,  extremism  and 
acts of violence, which have been on the rise as a new 
international  reality  because  of  the  ongoing  crises  in 
the region, for which no permanent solution is in sight. 
It  is  therefore  incumbent  upon  us  to  recognize  that 
combating these odious phenomena is an international 
responsibility  and  that  no  single  country  by  itself, 
despite its every effort, can confront or eliminate them. 
It is also morally impermissible to link the phenomena 
to any nationality, religion or civilization.
The  State  of  Kuwait  reiterates  its  principled  and 
firm position in condemning terrorist acts in all their 
forms and manifestations, as well as its total rejection 
of  all  acts  of  violence  and  extremism  that  not  only 
run counter to international laws and norms, but also 
to  the  teachings  of  the  true  tenets  of  Islam,  all  other 
divine religions, and cultural and human values. In that 
context, the State of Kuwait is actively contributing to 
combating terrorism by providing support and backing 
to  the  international  coalition  established  to  combat 
what is known as the Da’esh terrorist group in Iraq.
We  reiterate  our  position  to  stand  by  and  support 
the  Government  of  Iraq,  and  we  commend 
its 
achievements in combating terrorism and confronting 
Da’esh.  We  emphasize  our  support  for  its  measures 
and actions to maintain its own security, stability and 
territorial integrity.
Turning to the situation Libya, which is a source of 
grave concern, the State of Kuwait welcomes the decision 
of the Presidential Council to form the Government of 
National Accord. Kuwait considers it an important step 
towards  the  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  the 
Libyan Political Agreement, and one that we hope will 
assist our Libyan brothers in overcoming the status quo 
in a manner that preserves the unity and independence 
of Libya and the prosperity of its people.
The failure of the international community to find 
a permanent and comprehensive solution to the conflict 
in the Middle East threatens peace and security in the 
region  more  than  ever  as  a  result  of  the  oppressive 
practices  of  the  Israeli  occupation  forces  and  Israel’s 
consistent,  excessive  and  unjustifiable  use  of  force 
against the Palestinian people in blatant and clear-cut 
violation of resolutions of international legitimacy and 
the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949.
The persistence of the Israeli occupation authority 
in  pursuing  aggressive  practices  and  policies  against 
36/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
the Palestinian people regrettably emanates from a firm 
conviction that Israel is immune from any international 
accountability,  exempt  from  any  prosecution  and 
protected  from  any  criticism  or  condemnation  by 
international organizations. It is, therefore, incumbent 
upon the Security Council to carry out its responsibilities 
and  pressure  Israel  to  implement  the  resolutions 
of 
implementation 
would  lead  to  the  Palestinian  people’s  attaining  their 
legitimate  political  rights  and  their  own  independent 
State with their own territory. East Jerusalem would be 
its capital and its borders would be those of 4 June 1967, 
in accordance with the principle of land for peace and 
the Arab Peace Initiative.
legitimacy.  Such 
international 
In  support  of  Palestine,  the  State  of  Kuwait 
is  currently  working  on  hosting  an  international 
conference  on  the  suffering  of  Palestinian  children, 
which will shed light on Israel’s serious and persistent 
violations  of  international  conventions  and  norms 
relative  to  the  rights  of  the  child.  In  this  connection, 
I  wish  to  praise  the  initiative  of  the  friendly  French 
Republic and its efforts to push the Middle East peace 
process forward. The joint communiqué of 3 June 2016 
on  the  subject  of  an  international  conference  reflects 
its  interest  in  launching  a  new  process  with  a  view 
to  reaching  a  just  and  comprehensive  solution  in  the 
region.
As regards the Islamic Republic of Iran, the State 
of  Kuwait,  along  with  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council 
countries, looks forward to relations of friendship and 
cooperation  with  Iran  permeated  with  understanding 
and  mutual  respect.  We  also  wish  to  emphasize  the 
need to create appropriate conditions for constructive 
dialogue to take place in conformity with the rules and 
norms of international law relating to the principles of 
good-neighbourly relations, respect for the sovereignty 
of States and non-interference in their internal affairs, 
and  refraining  from  any  practices  that  contravene 
international  conventions  and  norms  that  threaten 
the  security  and  stability  of  the  region.  Additionally, 
the  occupation  of  the  three  Emirate  islands  must  end 
and the concerns of our sister nation, the United Arab 
Emirates,  must  be  addressed  and  receive  a  solution, 
through  either  direct  negotiation  or  resort  to  the 
International Court of Justice.
In conclusion, I am pleased to refer to the candidature 
of the State of Kuwait for membership in the Security 
Council for the period 2018-2019. I would like to avail 
myself of the opportunity to extend my thanks to all the 
member States of the Asia and Pacific Group in New 
York, which endorsed Kuwait’s candidature last month. 
We look forward to the support of all States Members 
of the United Nations in the elections that will be held 
in June next year. As I have emphasized, my country 
is  committed  to  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter.  Being  a  small,  peace-loving 
country, Kuwait bases its relations with others on the 
principles of respect for sovereignty and independence, 
good-neighbourly  relations  and  non-interference  in 
their  internal  affairs.  We  look  forward  to  facilitating 
the process of finding solutions by consensus. Peace be 
upon you.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Kuwait for the statement he has just made.
His  Highness  Sheikh  Sabah  Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber 
Al-Sabah,  Prime  Minister  of  the  State  of  Kuwait, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Muhammad Nawaz Sharif, 
Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic 
of Pakistan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Islamic 
Republic of Pakistan.
Mr.  Muhammad  Nawaz  Sharif,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Muhammad  Nawaz 
Sharif,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Pakistan, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Sharif (Pakistan): We congratulate Mr. Peter 
Thomson  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-first session. We agree that the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development should be the focus of the session. We also 
pay tribute to Mr. Lykketoft for his able stewardship of 
the seventieth session.
 Today, three decades after the end of the Cold War, 
our multipolar world is more free and vibrant, yet still 
chaotic  and  turbulent;  more  interdependent,  but  more 
unequal; more prosperous, yet still afflicted by poverty. 
We  see  spectacular  progress,  but  also  unprecedented 
human suffering. The world is at a historic inflection 
point.  The  international  order  established  after  the 
16-29421
37/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
Second  World  War  is  passing  away,  but  a  new  order 
has  yet  to  emerge.  Competition  between  the  major 
Powers  is  becoming  more  confrontational.  This  can 
pose serious threats to peace across Asia. A new cold 
war threatens to engulf Europe, where the momentum 
towards  greater  union  has  already  been  reversed. 
Barricades  and  walls  are  going  up,  especially  against 
the  tide  of  misery  flowing  out  of  a  turbulent  Middle 
East.  In  many  countries,  intolerance  has  revived  the 
ghosts of xenophobia and Islamophobia.
Turmoil 
is 
in 
intensifying 
the  Middle  East. 
International  efforts  to  defeat  Da’esh  are  therefore 
urgent. For this, it is essential to reconcile the divergent 
objectives and priorities of regional and external Powers. 
Peace cannot be built when injustice prevails. The long- 
festering  tragedy  of  Palestine  demands  determined 
action on the part of the international community.
After  decades  of  strong  growth, 
the  world 
economy has reached a plateau. Yet despite the adverse 
international economic environment, in the past three 
years my Government has moved the country towards 
robust  growth.  We  have  fully  integrated  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  into  our  own 
economic and social strategy, based on our conviction 
that people are the true wealth of our nation and that 
human development will determine our future destiny.
Our  priority  goal  of  economic  development 
requires  internal  peace  and  stability.  My  country  has 
been  the  principal  victim  of  terrorism  in  our  world, 
including terrorism supported, sponsored and financed 
from  abroad.  We  will  not  allow  externally  sponsored 
terrorism  and  threats  of  destabilization  to  cause 
turbulence in Pakistan. Tens of thousands of our citizens 
and thousands of our security personnel have been killed 
or injured in terrorist attacks. That has only reinforced 
our resolve to eliminate the scourge of terrorism. Our 
comprehensive strategy of law enforcement and targeted 
military  operations  has  produced  remarkable  results 
and enabled Pakistan to turn the tide against terrorists. 
Our  Zarb-e-Azb  operation  is  the  largest,  most  robust 
and most successful anti-terrorism campaign anywhere 
in the world, deploying 200,000 of our security forces. 
Our  comprehensive  national  action  plan  is  fully 
endorsed by our people and our Parliament as well as 
by our security forces, all of whom have made heroic 
sacrifices to defeat terrorism.
Terrorism,  however,  is  now  a  global  phenomenon 
that must be addressed comprehensively and in all its 
forms,  including  State  terrorism.  The  international 
community  must  coordinate  its  efforts  if  we  are  to 
accomplish  that.  Such  efforts  should  be  approached 
collectively,  not  through  the  unilateral  enactment  of 
laws with extraterritorial provisions that target certain 
countries. We will not win the fight against terrorism 
and violent extremism if we do not address their root 
causes. They lie in poverty and ignorance, political and 
social injustice and oppression, foreign intervention and 
occupation and denial of the legitimate rights of peoples 
and nations, especially the right to self-determination. 
Until  those  underlying  causes  are  addressed,  it  will 
be difficult to counter the twisted narrative of violent 
extremists and terrorists.
After 15 years of the current war in Afghanistan, 
the  international  community  agrees  that  the  only 
road  to  a  lasting  peace  in  that  country  is  through  a 
dialogue  between  the  Government  in  Kabul  and  the 
Afghan  Taliban.  Pakistan  has  long  proposed  this  as 
the  most  viable  way  to  end  the  decades  of  conflict 
and  suffering  in  Afghanistan.  Based  on  that  belief  in 
a  negotiated  peace,  and  in  response  to  requests  from 
President Ashraf Ghani, we have been facilitating the 
process  of  reconciliation  in  Afghanistan.  There  have 
been  setbacks,  but  they  are  not  a  sufficient  reason  to 
abandon  the  path  of  peace  and  rely  on  the  military 
option, which for the past decade and a half has failed 
to stabilize Afghanistan. Progress will be assured only 
when the Afghan parties themselves conclude that there 
is  no  military  solution  to  the  war  and  begin  to  work 
assiduously, through a meaningful dialogue process, to 
achieve reconciliation and peace at home.
More  than  three  and  a  half  decades  of  conflict 
and chaos in Afghanistan have had grave security and 
economic consequences for Pakistan. Almost 3 million 
Afghan refugees, to whom we have opened our homes 
and  hearts,  remain  in  Pakistan.  We  hope  to  see  them 
return  home  voluntarily  and  with  dignity.  Until  they 
do,  the  international  community  must  shoulder  its 
responsibility for helping to sustain them.
Confrontation  should  not  be  our  destiny  in  South 
Asia. Pakistan wants peace with India and we have gone 
the extra mile to achieve it, repeatedly offering to hold 
a dialogue to address all outstanding issues. But India 
has  posed  unacceptable  preconditions  for  engaging 
in  dialogue.  Let  us  be  clear  that  talks  are  not  some 
special  favour  for  Pakistan.  They  are  in  the  interest 
of  both  countries.  They  are  essential  to  resolving  our 
38/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
differences,  especially  in  the  Jammu  and  Kashmir 
dispute, and to averting the danger of any escalation.
Peace and normalization between Pakistan and India 
cannot be achieved without a resolution of the Kashmir 
dispute. That is an objective evaluation, not a partisan 
position.  Our  predictions  have  now  been  confirmed 
by  events.  A  new  generation  of  Kashmiris  has  risen 
spontaneously against India, demanding freedom from 
its illegal occupation. The young leader Burhan Wani, 
murdered  by  Indian  forces,  has  emerged  as  a  symbol 
of the latest Kashmiri intifada, a popular and peaceful 
freedom  movement  led  by  Kashmiris  young  and  old, 
men and women, armed only with undying faith in the 
legitimacy of their cause and a hunger for freedom in 
their hearts.
As  usual,  the  indigenous  Kashmiri  uprising  has 
been met with brutal repression by India’s occupation 
force  of  more  than  half  a  million  soldiers.  More  than 
a  hundred  Kashmiris  have  been  killed;  hundreds, 
including  children  and  infants,  have  been  blinded  by 
shotgun pellets; and more than 6,000 unarmed civilians 
have been injured over the past two months. 
The Indian brutalities are well documented. I would 
like to inform the General Assembly that Pakistan will 
share with the Secretary-General a dossier containing 
detailed  information  and  evidence  of  the  gross  and 
systematic  violations  of  human  rights  committed  by 
Indian  forces  in  occupied  Jammu  and  Kashmir.  The 
brutalities  will  not  suppress  the  Kashmiris’  spirits; 
they  will  only  intensify  their  anger  and  fortify  their 
determination  to  see  India  end  its  occupation  of 
Kashmir.  From  Srinagar  to  Sopore,  the  men,  women 
and children come out each day, defying a curfew, to 
demand freedom.
the  demand  of 
Pakistan  fully  supports 
the 
Kashmiri  people  for  self-determination,  as  several 
Security  Council  resolutions  have  promised  them. 
Their  struggle  is  a  legitimate  one  for  liberation  from 
alien occupation. International law and the declarations 
of the United Nations on self-determination give them 
the right to struggle for their freedom. Every year, the 
General Assembly unanimously adopts a resolution that 
reaffirms the right of all peoples to self-determination 
and calls on the States concerned to immediately end 
their occupation and all acts of repression.
On behalf of the Kashmiri people; on behalf of the 
mothers and fathers of the innocent Kashmiri children; 
on  behalf  of  women  and  men  who  have  been  killed, 
blinded and injured; on behalf of the Pakistani nation, 
I demand an independent inquiry into the extrajudicial 
killings  and  a  United  Nations  fact-finding  mission 
to  investigate  brutalities  perpetrated  by  the  Indian 
occupying forces so that those guilty of such atrocities 
are  punished.  We  demand  the  immediate  release  of 
all Kashmiri political prisoners, an end to the curfew, 
freedom for the Kashmiris to demonstrate peacefully, 
urgent  medical  help  for  the  injured  and  abrogation  of 
India’s draconian laws.
The  Security  Council  has  called  for  the  exercise 
of  the  right  to  self-determination  by  the  people  of 
Jammu and Kashmir through a free and fair plebiscite, 
held  under  United  Nations  auspices.  The  people  of 
Kashmir have waited 70 years for the implementation 
of  that  promise.  The  Security  Council  must  honour 
its  commitments  by  implementing  its  own  decisions. 
The General Assembly must demand that India deliver 
on  the  commitments  its  leaders  solemnly  made  on 
many occasions.
To  that  end,  steps  should  be  taken  by  the  United 
Nations  to  demilitarize  Jammu  and  Kashmir  and 
undertake  consultations  with  India,  Pakistan  and 
the  true  representatives  of  the  Kashmiri  people  to 
implement  the  resolutions  of  the  Security  Council.  In 
that context, we welcome the offer of his good offices 
by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. We will also open 
consultations with members of the Security Council to 
explore  the  modalities  for  the  implementation  of  the 
relevant Council resolutions on Kashmir.
The international community ignores the danger of 
rising tensions in South Asia at its own peril. For its part, 
Pakistan is committed to the establishment of strategic 
stability in the region. It neither wants nor is engaged 
in an arms race with India. But we cannot ignore our 
neighbour’s unprecedented arms build-up, and we will 
take  whatever  measures  are  necessary  to  maintain 
credible  deterrence.  We  have  consistently  urged  the 
conclusion  of  bilateral  arms  control  and  disarmament 
measures  between  Pakistan  and  India  to  prevent 
conflict and avoid wasteful military expenditures.
We are open to discussing all measures of restraint 
and  responsibility  with  India  in  any  forum  or  format 
and without any conditions. We are ready for talks to 
agree on a bilateral nuclear test ban treaty. Today, from 
this rostrum, I would also like to reiterate our offer to 
India  to  enter  into  a  serious  and  sustained  dialogue 
16-29421
39/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
for the peaceful resolution of all outstanding disputes, 
especially Jammu and Kashmir.
As  a  responsible  nuclear-weapon  State,  Pakistan 
will continue to cooperate with all international efforts 
that  seek  to  promote  fair  and  equitable  solutions  to 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  challenges.  We 
have introduced state-of-the-art measures to strengthen 
the  safety  and  security  of  our  nuclear  materials  and 
facilities.  We  have  adopted  a  comprehensive  export 
control regime that is fully consistent with international 
standards. Judged on the basis of objective criteria and 
without  discrimination,  Pakistan  is  fully  eligible  for 
membership in the Nuclear Suppliers Group.
In  our  turbulent  and  interdependent  world,  the 
United Nations remains an indispensable organization 
in terms of restoring order and ensuring global peace, 
stability  and  prosperity.  Its  principles  remain  the 
crucial  pillars  of  international  legality,  the  guide 
for  the  conduct  of  Member  States  and  the  guarantor 
of  the  legitimate  rights  of  all  nations  and  peoples. 
The  United  Nations  must  regain  its  credibility  as 
the  central  instrument  for  the  promotion  of  peace, 
prosperity  and  liberty.  To  that  end,  it  should  become 
more  representative,  transparent  and  accountable.  A 
comprehensive and democratic reform of the Security 
Council,  which  Pakistan  supports,  should  enhance  its 
relevance and representation. Creating new centres of 
privilege will do the opposite.
Pakistan’s  unwavering  commitment  to  the  United 
Nations is well established. We have played a pioneering 
and  consistent  role  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping. 
Despite our own security requirements, we will remain 
one of the world’s largest troop-contributing countries 
and maintain our record of success in multiple United 
Nations peacekeeping operations.
Pakistan  has  a  vital  stake  in  ending  conflicts, 
fostering  peace,  fighting 
terrorism,  strengthening 
democracy, promoting human rights, generating global 
growth and overcoming the challenges of environmental 
degradation. We can achieve those goals and create a 
new and peaceful world order, solely through the United 
Nations and with strict adherence to the principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations.
Mr. Muhammad Nawaz Sharif, Prime Minister of 
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, was escorted from 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Aung  San  Sun  Kyi,  State  Counsellor 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the 
Union of Myanmar.
Ms. Kyi (Myanmar): As the first representative of 
the new Government of Myanmar to speak before the 
Assembly,  it  is  my  duty  and  my  privilege  to  reaffirm 
our faith and confidence in the purposes and principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The  strength  of 
the Organization lies in its universality and legitimacy, 
anchored  in  the  Charter  and  in  the  fundamental 
principles of international law. For all its imperfections 
and limitations, the United Nations remains a receptacle 
of our hopes for a more peaceful and prosperous world, 
a kinder, more compassionate home for all humankind.
My country joined the United Nations as the newly 
independent Union of Burma in 1948. It was an era of 
determined  hope,  when  the  peoples  of  the  world  rose 
out of the ravages of war to build anew their countries 
and  their  faith  in  the  human  capacity  for  achieving 
peace  with  egalitarianism,  prosperity  with  justice. 
Now,  once  again,  it  is  a  time  of  determined  hope  for 
Myanmar.  When  our  people  cast  the  overwhelming 
majority of their votes in favour of the National League 
for Democracy during the elections in November 2015, 
they  were  demonstrating  their  support,  not  just  for  a 
political  party,  but  for  a  political  culture  founded  on 
a  belief  in  their  right  and  their  capacity  to  fashion 
the future of the country in the shape of their dreams 
and aspirations. And those dreams and aspirations echo 
the dreams and aspirations that led to the founding of 
the United Nations.
The dream of turning swords into ploughshares — or, 
to  use  a  more  modern  idiom,  converting  weapons  of 
destruction  into  farm  machinery  —  is  one  that  our 
people,  who  have  long  been  compelled  to  sacrifice 
their sleep and their fields to the exigencies of conflict, 
understand in their hearts and their minds. To be safe 
in  our  own  homes,  to  be  confident  in  our  capacity  to 
realize  our  full  potential,  to  be  happy  in  the  promise 
of progress for our young and security for our elderly, 
to  be  strong  in  our  rights  and  duties  as  citizens  of  a 
peaceful and prosperous Union — those are our simple 
aspirations. They are simple, but, it hardly needs to be 
said, not easy to achieve. And the only path that will 
lead us to our goals is the path of peace, the path that we 
must follow with hope and determination.
40/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
 The people of Myanmar have long been deprived 
of  their  inherent  right  to  live  in  peace  and  security, 
to  fundamental  freedom  and  to  development  —  to 
sustainable development, in the context of the Goals of 
our 2030 Agenda. For a country that has experienced 
over six decades of internal armed conflict, nothing is 
more important than the achievement of lasting peace 
and national reconciliation. It is a difficult and complex 
task and one which the new Government of Myanmar is 
taking on as a major challenge and a high priority.
There  has  been  persistent  opposition  from  some 
quarters  to  the  establishment  of  the  Commission. 
However,  we  are  determined  to  persevere  in  our 
endeavour to achieve harmony, peace and prosperity in 
Rakhine state. Here, I would like to take the opportunity to 
ask for the understanding and constructive contribution 
of  the  international  community.  By  standing  firm 
against the forces of prejudice and intolerance, we are 
reaffirming our faith in fundamental human rights, in 
the dignity and worth of the human person.
Recently,  we  convened  the  first  session  of  the 
Union  Peace  Conference,  also  known  as  the  21st 
Century Panglong Conference, as it embodies the spirit 
of  Panglong,  the  1947  conference  that  paved  the  way 
to  the  founding  of  the  independent  Union  of  Burma. 
Attended  by  representatives  of 
the  Government, 
Parliament, armed forces, ethnic armed groups, political 
parties and civil society organizations, the Union Peace 
Conference  is  based  on  the  principle  of  inclusiveness 
and embodies the spirit of Union. The Conference is not 
an end in itself. It is the first vital step on our journey to 
national reconciliation and lasting peace that will save 
succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge  of  fraternal 
strife, which has brought untold sorrow to our peoples.
Over  the  past  few  years,  the  world  has  focused 
its attention on the situation in the country’s Rakhine 
state.  As  a  responsible  member  of  the  community  of 
nations, we do not fear international scrutiny. We are 
committed  to  a  sustainable  solution  that  will  lead  to 
peace,  stability  and  development  for  all  communities 
within the state. 
Our Government is taking a holistic approach that 
makes development central to both short- and long-term 
programmes  aimed  at  promoting  understanding  and 
trust. The Central Committee for the Implementation of 
Peace, Stability and Development in Rakhine State was 
established soon after our new Government took office. 
The working committees established under the Central 
Committee  are  undertaking  the  tasks  of  establishing 
security, peace and stability, and rule of law; scrutinizing 
immigration  and  citizenship;  facilitating  settlements 
and  implementing  socioeconomic  development;  and 
coordinating  and  cooperating  with  United  Nations 
agencies  and  international  organizations  in  providing 
humanitarian  assistance.  To  buttress  our  efforts  to 
address the issue comprehensively and more effectively, 
we have also established the Advisory Commission on 
Rakhine  State,  chaired  by  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  former 
Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Peace and national reconciliation are prerequisites 
for  the  successful  implementation  of  policies  and 
programmes  aimed  at  fulfilling 
the  social  and 
economic needs of our people. Myanmar’s 2016 national 
economic and development policy is designed to meet 
many of the Sustainable Development Goals, including 
those  concerning  the  enhancement  of  infrastructure 
investment,  agriculture,  the  private  sector,  small  and 
medium-sized  enterprises  and,  in  particular,  poverty 
alleviation.  National  reconciliation,  job  creation  and 
conservation  of  natural  resources,  capacity-building 
and  creating  opportunities  for  the  young  are  the  key 
objectives of our people-centred inclusive policy. Many 
of  our  shared  concerns  as  Members  of  the  United 
Nations have already been discussed comprehensively 
in  the  Assembly  since  the  general  debate  opened 
yesterday.  Mindful  of  the  President’s  exhortation  to 
keep within the limits of the time allotted to each of us, 
I will therefore touch upon just a few issues: migration, 
terrorism, nuclear disarmament. I asked my delegation 
how  it  would  be  if  I  spoke  for  less  than  15  minutes, 
and  they  assured  me  that  it  would  make  everybody 
very happy.
Durable  solutions  to  problems  can  be  found  only 
by  investigating  their  roots.  The  unprecedented  scale 
of  migration  in  recent  years  and  the  consequent 
sufferings  make  it  an  imperative  to  address  the  two 
most  important  causes  of  irregular  migration:  lack  of 
peace  and  lack  of  development.  While  talking  about 
building  peace  and  development,  we  cannot  neglect 
the  important  aspect  of  enhancing  respect  for  human 
rights, equality, diversity and tolerance with a balanced 
implementation of multidimensional economic policies. 
It is a challenging task, and there is a need for countries 
to  work  in  collaboration  with  each  other  to  seek  just 
and  comprehensive  solutions 
in  compliance  with 
international law.
Migrants  contribute  to  the  economies  of  their 
host  countries  and  to  the  global  economy.  I  therefore 
16-29421
41/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
believe  that  building  cooperation  and  collaboration 
between the host country and the country of origin in 
ensuring the rights of migrant workers will be mutually 
reinforcing for both. Our planet is a place to be shared 
by  all.  Sharing  values  and  wealth  will  create  a  better 
world for all of us.
We must be united in standing against all forms and 
manifestations of violent extremism related to religious, 
cultural  and  social  intolerance.  Having  identified 
extremism  as  a  root  of  terrorism,  we  need  to  explore 
the causes of extremism. Lack of social and economic 
security are, no doubt, important factors, but I believe 
that we also need to consider the possibility that lack of 
purpose, of a sense of direction in life, could be a force 
that drives many, especially the young, into the snare of 
ideologies that appear to offer certainty.
Myanmar advocates a world free of nuclear weapons. 
The annual resolution tabled by my country on nuclear 
disarmament  aims  at  achieving  peace  and  security 
for  present  and  future  generations.  Establishment  of 
nuclear-weapon-free  zones  in  different  parts  of  the 
world  contributes  to  this  goal.  I  am  happy  to  inform 
the Assembly that we will be depositing our instrument 
of ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty this afternoon.
We have known the cost of contention and suffered 
the wounds of strife. It is something that we do not wish 
for anybody or any country in our world. I would like 
to thank all those who have helped us along our road 
to build a truly democratic federal union. It has been a 
hard road and we have been helped by compassion, by 
loving kindness and by understanding. We would like to 
see these qualities displayed more often in addressing 
the problems of our world today. I have witnessed too 
much anger, hatred, resentment, and demands for rather 
than offers of service. We would like our world to be a 
kinder world, one that places giving above receiving.
We are taught in Burma that the causes of corruption 
are greed, anger, fear and ignorance. I am not talking 
of corruption as simply the offering or taking of bribes, 
but  rather  the  corruption  of  human  nature.  Anger, 
greed,  fear  and  ignorance  corrupt  human  nature,  and 
as a result our whole world is corrupted. I would like 
to  call  on  all  to  help  us  in  making  the  world  a  truly 
better place for us to live in, and for our grandchildren 
and  great-grandchildren  to  live  in.  Where  but  in  this 
gathering  of  nations  can  I  make  such  an  appeal?  So, 
I  appeal  to  all  to  stand  up  against  anger  and  hatred, 
against fear and ignorance, and to find a way to build a 
better world through our capacity for compassion and 
loving kindness, and our ability to be happy in the good 
fortune of others.
Address by Mr. Shinzo Abe, Prime Minister 
of Japan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Japan.
Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime 
Minister  of  Japan,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
Mr. Abe (Japan) (spoke in Japanese; English text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  North  Korea  has  now 
openly shown itself to be a threat to peace. How must 
we  respond?  The  raison  d’être  of  the  United  Nations 
is  now  being  seriously  challenged.  North  Korea 
has 
tested  submarine-launched  ballistic  missiles. 
Immediately after that, it fired three ballistic missiles 
simultaneously,  each  traversing  1,000  kilometres  to 
reach  Japan’s  exclusive  economic  zone.  It  is  purely 
a  matter  of  good  fortune  that  no  commercial  aircraft 
or  ships  suffered  any  damage  during  that  incident. 
This  year  alone,  North  Korea  has  launched  a  total 
of  21  ballistic  missiles.  In  addition,  it  claims  to  have 
successfully  detonated  a  nuclear  warhead  in  a  test  on 
9  September.  That  nuclear  test  followed  another  test 
conducted  in  January.  That  series  of  missile  launches 
and  the  detonation  of  a  warhead  completely  changes 
the landscape.
North  Korea’s  nuclear  development  and 
the 
repeated launches of ballistic missiles are two sides of 
the  same  coin.  Before  our  very  eyes,  North  Korea  is 
carrying out a plan that is plain to see. It is clear that 
the threat has now reached a new dimension. We must 
therefore respond in a manner entirely distinct from our 
responses thus far. We must act in unison and thwart 
North Korea’s plans.
the  report  of 
Immediately  upon  hearing 
the 
nuclear  test,  I  telephoned  President  Barack  Obama 
of  the  United  States.  After  that  I  also  held  telephone 
talks with President Park Geun-hye of the Republic of 
Korea.  We  all  agreed  that  our  three  countries  would 
collaborate  closely  and  show  resolve  in  our  attitude 
42/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
towards  North  Korea.  Now  is  the  time  for  the  United 
Nations to act. Now is the time for the Security Council 
to  adopt  an  unambiguous  position  regarding  the 
unprecedented threat.
It was only four months ago that President Obama 
visited Hiroshima, where countless innocent citizens fell 
victim to the first atomic bomb ever detonated. It was a 
day on which we renewed pledges. No matter how long 
it takes, we must never, even for the briefest moment, 
let up in our efforts to secure the total elimination of 
nuclear weapons. On that day, our pledges linked both 
sides  of  the  Pacific  and  gained  new  strength.  This 
notwithstanding,  North  Korea  is  now  escalating  its 
provocations. It is a challenge that we cannot overlook, 
as to do so would weigh on our collective conscience.
Peace  is  much  like  glass  —  when  polished  and 
transparent,  we  do  not  see  it.  A  small  crack  can  be 
overlooked  for  a  while  without  changing,  but  before 
you know it, the crack expands and one day the glass 
shatters resoundingly. That is why, day in and day out, 
we must habituate ourselves to handling glass with great 
care, so that no cracks form. I believe that the original 
intention of the United Nations, created in the wake of 
two world wars, was that kind of keen awareness. For 
that  very  reason,  it  would  simply  be  unacceptable  to 
continue to tolerate military provocation, because that 
would be equivalent to openly cracking the glass.
Moreover, the threat to peace now plainly manifests 
itself, and North Korea’s persistent military provocations 
are far more serious than before. North Korea is, without 
a doubt, poised to acquire submarine-launched ballistic 
missiles with nuclear warheads. Let us not forget that 
this is a country that abducted a large number of Japanese 
citizens,  including  a  13  year-old  girl,  shattering  their 
peaceful lives, and to date they have not been allowed 
to  return  to  their  homeland.  We  have  demanded  that 
North  Korea  return  them  immediately,  but  they  have 
refused. This is a country that tramples human rights, 
where the checks and balances of power are ignored. It 
is a country that continues to build up its arsenal, which 
includes  missiles  and  nuclear  weapons,  while  paying 
no attention to the plight of its citizens. The threat to 
the international community has become increasingly 
grave and real. It calls for innovative responses that are 
altogether different from previous approaches.
In  December,  Japan  will  mark 
the  sixtieth 
anniversary  of  its  entry  into  the  United  Nations. 
Sixty-two  years  have  elapsed,  if  we  count  from  the 
moment that the toll of the bronze Peace Bell sent by 
a Japanese citizen began sounding in the front gardens 
of the United Nations grounds on the International Day 
of  Peace,  as  it  does  every  year.  The  bell  was  cast  by 
melting  down  coins  sent  by  Pope  Pius  XII  and  coins 
and medals sent by children and adults from more than 
60 countries around the world. What was the wish of 
the Japanese people that accompanied it?
Sixty  years  ago,  when  Japan  was  first  seated  in 
this  Hall,  it  wholeheartedly  advocated  world  peace 
and  the  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons,  as  it  has 
done  consistently  and  unfailingly  ever  since.  It  was  a 
pledge designed to be passed down from generation to 
generation, a pledge not to stop walking along the path 
that  would  make  world  peace  and  the  elimination  of 
nuclear weapons a reality.
On this occasion today, I had originally intended to 
look back at the path we have trodden these 60 years and 
quietly reflect on Japan’s progress along that road, with 
world peace and prosperity as its goals. However, the 
North Korea threat is reaching a new level. Therefore, 
in the light of Japan having upheld its pledge these 60 
years, and as the world focuses on whether the United 
Nations  will  thwart  North  Korea’s  ambitions  or  the 
Security Council will be able to confront North Korea in 
a united way, I feel I must state that Japan, as a Security 
Council  member,  will  lead  the  Council’s  discussions. 
I  declare  before  the  national  representatives  gathered 
here  in  the  General  Assembly  Hall  that  this  is  our 
absolute resolve. No matter the issue before us, or how 
many challenges we are faced with, Japan, as it marks 
its sixtieth year of membership, will spare no effort to 
strengthen the United Nations.
The cumulative total of the assessed contributions 
to  the  United  Nations  and  the  assessed  contributions 
to peacekeeping operations that Japan has paid, when 
their book value is tallied, easily exceeds $20 billion. 
The  only  country  whose  total  financial  contributions 
surpasses  that  of  Japan  over  the  past  30  years  is 
the  United  States.  In  addition,  our  track  record  of 
development  assistance  amounts  to  $334.5  billion, 
again in terms of the book value.
As I see it, the United Nations has historically been 
committed  to  three  great  causes:  devotion  to  peace, 
the pursuit of growth, and the desire for a world free 
of  injustice  and  unfairness.  I  believe  members  will 
recognize that Japan is a country that has made all-out 
16-29421
43/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
efforts to promote all three of those causes over the past 
60 years.
Growth  serves  as  the  foundation  for  all  else. 
Only  when  there  is  growth  does  peace  take  root  and 
can injustices be rectified over time. Take a look and 
see  how  greater  Asia  has  now  surpassed  every  other 
region as regards the size of its population living under 
democracy.  This  is  precisely  the  fruit  of  the  growth 
that  Asia  has  been  enjoying  since  the  mid-1980s, 
which  happens  also  to  be  the  time  at  which  Japanese 
companies began their large-scale direct investments in 
Asian nations.
that  Japan  was  able 
It  was  only  through  a  free  and  open  trade  and 
investment  environment 
to 
grow — the very same environment that is responsible 
for the present-day prosperity of the countries of Asia. 
Peace, stability and safety at sea, together with freedom 
of navigation and overflight, are the basis for the peace 
and prosperity of the international community.
In the event of disputes, the international community 
must  adhere  strictly  to  the  principle  that  States  shall 
make their claims based on international law, shall not 
use  force  or  coercion  in  support  of  their  claims  and 
shall seek to settle disputes by peaceful means. Japan 
will unfailingly continue to uphold a world order that 
is open, free and unwavering in its commitment to the 
rule of law and international norms.
Let  me  also  say  that  at  the  core  of  the  Japanese 
Government  I  have  formed  a  special  team,  which  I 
lead directly, that is working to further the Sustainable 
Development Goals.
The  Government  of  Japan  will  accelerate  the 
work towards early conclusion of the Paris Agreement 
on  Climate  Change  and  will  carry  out  without  fail 
its  pledge  to  provide  ¥1.3  trillion  in  assistance  for 
developing countries by 2020. I will make sure that this 
will be done.
Japan  will  spare  no  effort  in  strengthening  the 
United Nations in the 60 years to come, just as it did 
over the past 60 years. I wish to pledge this, grounded 
in trust in the Japanese people.
An  unexpected  visitor  appeared  at  a  worksite  in 
Juba, South Sudan, where members of an engineering 
unit belonging to the Japan Ground Self-Defense Force 
(SDF)  and  wearing  the  blue  helmets  of  the  United 
Nations were carrying out activities. He said to them,
“I am really thankful that Japan is building roads. 
I  place  my  full  confidence  in  you.  Isn’t  there 
anything I can do? Let me help you. I don’t need 
anything in return.”
Again the next day, and the day after that, the man 
appeared  at  the  worksite,  where  an  arterial  road  was 
being laid in the capital of South Sudan, the youngest 
Member of the United Nations. On the third day, the man 
began doing the work that he knew would be necessary, 
and he continued working with the members of the SDF 
for eight days. When they went their separate ways, as 
they were patting each other on the back and expressing 
regret that they had to part, it goes without saying that 
our engineering unit members, who had heard nothing 
but words of thanks from this man, were deeply moved. 
Juma  Ago  Isaac —  the  SDF  members  each  wrote  the 
name  of  this  otherwise  unknown  man  from  South 
Sudan in their notebooks to remember him.
No matter what the job or where it is, the Japanese 
engaged  in  international  cooperation  always  consider 
this  kind  of  encounter  at  local  worksites  to  be  their 
real  reward.  Wherever  they  go,  nameless  people 
become  aware  of  their  own  abilities  and  realize  that 
nation-building  begins  at  the  very  place  where  they 
themselves are standing. The Japanese witnessing this 
are moved in ways that become memories lasting their 
entire lives.
It is a source of quiet pride for me that the relationship 
between Japan and the United Nations has for the past 
60 years brought hearts together in this way in Asia, in 
Africa and indeed all around the world. This is Japan’s 
United Nations spirit. I pledge not to forget this and to 
foster it and hand it down to the next generation.
I will end my address by pointing out the need for 
fundamental changes in the United Nations governance 
structure. Countries in Africa and Latin America have 
built  up  a  degree  of  influence  they  never  had  before 
in global politics and the global economy, and yet they 
do not have satisfactory representation on the Security 
Council.  This  single  example  makes  the  present 
composition  of  the  Security  Council  indefensible  to 
the  current  generation.  The  international  relations 
that  prevailed  71  years  ago,  at  the  end  of  the  Second 
World  War,  are  now  relegated  to  the  history  books. 
They hold no relevance for the countries that have since 
then  achieved  their  independence.  At  the  sixth  Tokyo 
International  Conference  for  African  Development, 
which  Japan  and  the  countries  of  Africa  recently 
44/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
convened,  I  heard  the  leaders  describe  the  fact  that 
Africa has no permanent representation on the Security 
Council  as  a  historical  injustice,  and  I  concurred  in 
deep agreement.
Africa’s  long-term  goal  is  to  have  permanent 
members on the Security Council by 2023, which Japan 
thoroughly  supports.  If  we  do  not  carry  out  a  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  now,  it  may  well  be  put  off 
for  another  decade  or  two.  Which  position  are  we  to 
take —  that  of  undermining  the  values  of  the  United 
Nations,  or  that  of  striving  to  strengthen  the  United 
Nations?  If  we  choose  the  latter,  then  it  goes  without 
saying  that  Security  Council  reform  is  a  matter  of 
urgency.  I  will  end  my  address  here  by  emphasizing 
that point.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Japan 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Milo Ðukanović, Prime 
Minister of Montenegro
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Montenegro.
Mr. Milo Ðukanović, Prime Minister of Montenegro, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Milo Ðukanović, Prime 
Minister  of  Montenegro,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
interpretation 
provided 
(spoke 
by 
(Montenegro) 
Mr.  Ðukanović 
in 
the 
Montenegrin; 
delegation): It is an honour for me to address the General 
Assembly on behalf of Montenegro and to once again 
reaffirm the unequivocal commitment of my country to 
the United Nations. 
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  congratulate  His 
Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson of Fiji on his election as 
President  of  the  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session. 
We  welcome  the  theme  chosen  for  this  sessin,  in  the 
light of the universal importance of implementing the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs).  I  would  also 
like  to  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft, 
President of the Assembly at its seventieth session, for 
his leadership and his many efforts invested in creating 
prerequisites for the efficient implementation of crucial 
agreements  on  sustainable  development  and  climate 
change.
This is the last general debate for Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon.  I  would  like  to  express  my  particular 
appreciation  to  him  for  his  essential  contributions 
aimed at building a safer and more prosperous world, 
especially in the light of the past decade, one tarnished 
by myriad challenges and crises. It could not have been 
easy to lead the Organization in such conditions.
Despite  the  progress  made  in  many  areas,  the 
current  global  situation  raises  many  concerns.  In 
many  places  around  the  world,  peace,  stability  and 
sustainable  economic  development  are  still  proving 
unattainable. Brutal and long-term conflicts have taken 
their  toll  on  hundreds  and  thousands  of  individuals, 
destroying  millions  of  people’s  lives,  the  majority  of 
whom are women and children. Extreme poverty, weak 
institutions  and  serious  breaches  of  human  rights  are 
still  the  harsh  reality  for  a  large  number  of  people 
around the world. Fundamental pillars of international 
law  are  being  violated  by  non-State  stakeholders, 
and  violent  extremism  and  terrorism  induce  constant 
instability,  leading  to  millions  of  people  being  forced 
to  leave  their  homes.  Other  countries’  willingness  to 
admit  them  is  becoming  increasingly  uncertain,  and 
the humanitarian funds raised are insufficient to meet 
those people’s basic needs.
In 
the  current  situation,  where 
increasingly 
complex challenges know no boundaries and where no 
country is able to cope alone, we are compelled to turn 
to  the  United  Nations,  a  world  Organization  like  no 
other,  where  collective  solutions  can  be  reached.  It  is 
encouraging that the past few years have been marked 
by historic multilateral agreements, paving the way for 
global transformation and sustainable progress. That is a 
reflection of the general willingness to change the status 
quo.  The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the Sendai 
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 carry 
significant  importance  and  are  characterized  by  their 
interdependence. It is time to assume our responsibility 
and commit to their implementation, so that all citizens 
have  an  equal  chance  to  live  a  dignified  life  without 
violence, discrimination or extreme poverty.
Montenegro,  despite  its  size  and  small  share  in 
global emissions, has been committed to implementing 
through  sustainable 
the  agreements  I  mentioned 
16-29421
45/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
development  initiatives,  even  though  its  contribution 
may be small. Montenegro is one of 22 Members of the 
United Nations to have presented a voluntary national 
report  on  the  implementation  and  monitoring  of  the 
2030  Agenda  and  SDGs  at  the  High-level  Political 
Forum in July, further proof of that commitment. 
Montenegro was also one of the first States to adopt 
the SDGs as part of a national sustainable development 
strategy, in place until 2030. The strategy ensures that 
the  principal  measures  needed  to  achieve  long-term 
sustainable  development  goals  in  Montenegro  have 
been implemented, while the country has also adhered 
to all necessary international commitments in line with 
the  2030  Agenda.  The  strategy  is  for  the  long  term 
and aims not only to boost the economy and help the 
environment but also to capitalize on human resources 
and  social  capital.  That  should  lead  to  prosperous 
development for our country’s citizens.
that 
Montenegro  strongly  believes 
the  Paris 
Agreement  is  a  foundation  on  which  further  efforts 
to  preserve  climate  systems  can  be  based,  thereby 
ensuring  that  all  countries,  regardless  of  their  stage 
of  development,  progressively  raise  their  ambitions 
in  order  to  achieve  their  final  goals.  In  line  with 
the  provisions  of  the  Paris  Agreement,  Montenegro 
reaffirms its ambitious contribution, which is to reduce 
its  own  greenhouse-gas  emissions  by  30  per  cent 
compared  with  those  of  1990.  We  wish  to  formally 
ratify that commitment as soon as possible, in order to 
initiate its implementation. 
Our  commitment  to  achieving  the  goals  of  the 
Paris  Agreement  will  pose  a  challenge  for  our  entire 
system  and  will  need  to  include  all  the  stakeholders 
at the national and local levels of management and in 
all  segments  of  society.  Like  many  other  countries, 
Montenegro  will  require  additional  support  from  the 
international community and the financial mechanisms 
of  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change. I refer primarily to the Green Climate 
Fund.
Too often the international community is not able 
to prevent or end bloodshed, criminal activity and the 
suffering of millions of people around the world. The 
conflict  in  Syria,  which  has  continuously  attracted 
attention  from  the  international  community  and  the 
United  Nations,  is  the  most  tragic  illustration  of  that 
inability. Montenegro expresses its deep concern at the 
conflict  and  the  deteriorating  humanitarian  security 
situation, the repercussions of which are felt globally. 
We  fully  support  an  urgent  cessation  of  violence  and 
wish to point out the need for all parties to adhere to 
international  law  and  United  Nations  resolutions.  It 
is  unacceptable  for  the  international  community  to 
condone  the  war’s  atrocities.  It  is  not  only  morally 
unacceptable,  but  also  contradictory  to  international 
law.  Therefore,  in  the  absence  of  a  political  solution, 
a  temporary  agreement  must  be  reached  that  respects 
the  principles  of  international  law  and  that  would  at 
least alleviate human suffering. Such crimes must not 
go  unpunished  —  their  perpetrators  have  to  be  held 
responsible  for  breaches  of  international  law  and  its 
principles.
The  role  that  the  Security  Council  plays  in 
international  and  hybrid  criminal  tribunals  is  of 
vital  importance.  The  crises  and  conflicts  in  Syria, 
Iraq,  Yemen,  Libya,  South  Sudan  and  other  countries 
demonstrate  the  importance  of  finding  a  long-term, 
peaceful  solution  through  political  and  diplomatic 
means,  which  must  have  supremacy.  The  fragile 
and  deteriorating  nature  of  international  peace  and 
security and its ramifications clearly indicate that our 
current global approach — that of managing violence 
and  crisis —  must  give  way  to  an  approach  based  on 
prevention.  It  is  high  time  to  move  from  rhetoric  to 
action.
Mediation,  a  very  efficient  and  peaceful  way  to 
prevent conflict, has not been given enough attention, 
despite Article 33 of the Charter of the United Nations. 
Montenegro,  being  fully  aware  of  the  importance 
of  mediation,  is  organizing  a  conference  next  year 
to  contribute  to  further  enhancing  mediation  in  the 
turbulent  area  of  the  Mediterranean.  Throughout  its 
history,  including  in  its  recent  past,  Montenegro  has 
been  affected  by  numerous  conflicts.  Our  enthusiasm 
for  and  commitment  to  mediation  flow  from  our 
commitment  to  honest  dialogue  and  cooperation.  We 
believe  that  mediation  is  the  best  way  to  overcome 
differences, alleviate tension and reach final solutions.
Humankind  is  facing  humanitarian,  refugee  and 
migrant  crises  not  seen  since  the  Second  World  War. 
We  deem  it  exceptionally  important  that  the  General 
Assembly  took  up  this  topic  through  its  hosting  of 
the  high-level  plenary  meeting  on  addressing  large 
movements of refugees and migrants. We are in favour 
of implementing the New York Declaration for Refugees 
and Migrants (resolution 71/1).
46/48 
16-29421
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.11
We must not for a moment forget that today the world 
is  facing  the  constant  threat  of  terrorism  and  violent 
extremism. Terrorist attacks worldwide and the killing 
of civilians remind us that we have made only limited 
progress  in  dealing  with  this  complex  and  evolving 
phenomenon,  and  that  more  resolute  efforts,  unity, 
coordination and a more active role by every individual 
State Member of the United Nations are required. Our 
actions to counter terrorism must focus on preventive 
measures  and  on  the  social,  economic  and  political 
situation. More especially, they must target vulnerable 
and marginalized groups, because people susceptible to 
radicalism  are  primarily  recruited  from  these  groups. 
The  implementation  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals is the best chance to make a positive difference 
in this respect. Emphasis must be placed on youth and 
their  empowerment,  primarily  through  employment 
and education.
In  a  year  that  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
the  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
and  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  two 
key  international  instruments  on  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms,  the  United  Nations  is  facing 
major challenges with regard to human rights protection 
and  overwhelming  humanitarian  crises.  Therefore,  it 
is necessary to reaffirm the strong commitment of all 
Member States to the multilateral system of protection 
and promotion of human rights. The full and immediate 
application of high standards in the protection of human 
rights  and  the  translation  of  international  norms  into 
practice in every Member State, without exception, are 
the prerequisites for peace, stability and development. 
The United Nations and its Member States should make 
a much greater effort so that all rights, not only civic and 
political rights but also economic and social rights, are 
guaranteed in order to build the necessary conditions to 
ensure that no one is left behind in the implementation 
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The integration of human rights into development 
policies, especially public policies protecting the rights 
of the most vulnerable groups at the national level, is a 
necessary step for effective protection. In that context, 
the consistent application of the principles of sustainable 
and inclusive growth in the implementation of economic 
growth  strategies  is  a  necessary  precondition  for 
combating poverty and social exclusion.
In  order  for  the  United  Nations  to  maintain  and 
strengthen its central position in the system of global 
governance, the Organization must undergo reforms and 
adapt to the circumstances of the twenty-first century 
and  to  modern  democratic  principles.  The  priority  in 
that  regard  remains  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Security Council in order to enhance its efficiency and 
transparency.
The Delivering as One approach, which Montenegro 
is also applying, has already delivered positive results 
in  the  cooperation  between  the  Organization  and 
host  countries.  It  should  therefore  be  further  refined, 
especially in the context of the implementation of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Montenegro  welcomes  the  changes  introduced  as 
a result of the negotiations on the role of the General 
Assembly  in  the  process  of  selecting  the  Secretary-
General. They will help to strengthen transparency and 
competitiveness  and  ensure  a  merit-based  approach. 
Montenegro  is  proud  to  have  put  forward  a  candidate 
for  the  most  responsible  position  in  the  United 
Nations  system.  We  have  thereby  made  a  qualitative 
and  quantitative  contribution  to  the  selection  of  the 
best  candidate.  At  the  same  time,  this  also  confirms 
our  readiness  to  contribute  even  more  actively  to  the 
universal  goals  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
On  this  occasion,  I  want  to  express  the  hope  and 
expectation that the new Secretary-General will come 
from one of the Eastern European countries, given the 
need to respect the principle of regional rotation and the 
fact that our geographical group is the only one never to 
have provided the Secretary-General to date.
Montenegro  marked  the  tenth  anniversary  of  its 
membership  in  the  United  Nations  on  28  June.  This 
was a historic day for our country. It was the greatest 
confirmation  of  independence,  restored  Montenegrin 
statehood,  a  signal  that  we  have  taken  our  rightful 
place  in  the  world  family  of  nations.  Since  regaining 
independence,  we  are  continuously  strengthening  our 
State  in  accordance  with  the  European  Euro-Atlantic 
standard,  and  I  am  pleased  to  note  that  Montenegro 
is  today  an  example  of  stability,  multi-ethnicity  and 
respect  for  differences;  a  reliable  neighbour  and  a 
reliable  international  partner;  and  a  leader  in  Euro-
Atlantic integration in the region.
Given  our  experience,  we  know  that  institutions 
are  a  foundation  for  the  stability  of  the  State  and  the 
rule  of  law.  Integration  into  NATO  and  the  European 
Union  are  national  strategic  priorities.  In  May  this 
year Montenegro signed the NATO accession protocol. 
We  believe  that  the  process  of  ratification  of  the 
16-29421
47/48
A/71/PV.11 
21/09/2016
protocol  will  be  finalized  in  the  short  term  and  that 
we  will  very  soon  meet  all  the  formal  preconditions 
to become a full-fledged member State of NATO. The 
importance of this historic step for Montenegro will not 
diminish  our  enthusiasm  for  the  further  improvement 
of  our  security,  legal  and  political  systems,  as  NATO 
membership requires. The same applies as regards our 
readiness  to  contribute  to  peace  and  stability  in  the 
region and beyond.
We have opened 24 of the requisite 35 chapters in 
the  process  of  our  accession  to  the  European  Union. 
We  are  making  strides  on  the  path  to  membership, 
reaffirming the potential and capacity of Montenegrin 
society and its institutions. Montenegro continues to be 
a reliable and responsible partner for the international 
community and the United Nations.
Montenegro  is  a  member  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission.  It  is  also  a  member  of  the  Executive 
Board of the United Nations Development Programme, 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund  and  the  United 
Nations  Office  for  Project  Services.  We  have  been 
elected to membership of the Executive Board of UN-
Women, starting next year. After serving on the Human 
Rights  Council  from  2014  to  2016,  we  submitted  our 
application  for  membership  in  the  Council  for  the 
2022-2024  period.  We  also  presented  our  candidacy 
for the Security Council for the 2026-2027 period. We 
have expanded our participation in the United Nations 
peacekeeping missions by deploying military observers 
to  the  United  Nations  Mission  for  the  Referendum  in 
Western Sahara.
The  foregoing  are  indicators  that  Montenegro 
is  firmly  committed  to  the  promotion  of  the  United 
Nations and to multilateralism and joint action in order 
to  guarantee  a  peaceful,  stable,  prosperous  and  equal 
world. We are determined to actively and constructively 
contribute  to  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  in 
this regard.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Montenegro for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Milo Ðukanović, Prime Minister of Montenegro, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 2.35 p.m.
48/48 
16-29421
