United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
42nd plenary meeting
Monday, 7 November 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.42
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 122
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and other matters related to the Security Council
The President: The item before us today on Security 
Council reform goes to the very heart of the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Organization.  Since  the  United 
Nations was founded 71 years ago the world has changed 
dramatically,  with  population  growth,  economic  and 
technological  advancements  and  progress  in  human 
rights,  the  rising  interconnectivity  and  mobility  of 
people,  the  shifting  global  dynamics,  climate  change, 
environmental  degradation,  the  growing  frequency 
and severity of natural disasters, and the sheer nature 
and  complexity  of  global  security  challenges  that  are 
increasing greatly.
Indeed,  the  number  of  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  has  quadrupled  over  those  years.  The 
rise of terrorism and violent extremism, the expansion 
of  asymmetrical  warfare,  the  risk  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction  falling  into  the  hands  of  non-State 
actors, and the illegal proliferation of small arms and 
light  weapons  in  both  inter-  and  intra-State  conflicts 
are  all  threatening  international  peace  and  security 
and  challenging  the  capacity  of  the  United  Nations 
to respond.
As  we  meet,  the  world  is  facing  the  worst 
humanitarian  refugee  crisis  since  the  Second  World 
War, and the United Nations is responding to the highest 
number  of  simultaneous  security  and  humanitarian 
crises  in  its  history.  It  has  become  a  well-founded 
priority  for  all  Member  States  to  ensure  that  the 
Security  Council,  as  the  organ  of  the  United  Nations 
with  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  is  representative, 
responsive, effective and efficient.
Institutional  reform  of  the  United  Nations  is  not 
only  possible,  but  has  already  taken  place  in  recent 
times. We have also seen greater coordination between 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  not 
least  during  this  year’s  appointment  process  for  the 
new Secretary-General. I applaud those developments. 
However, it remains clear that much work remains to be 
done. Advancing Security Council reform will remain 
a key priority for the General Assembly at its seventy-
first  session  as  we  look  to  take  forward  discussions, 
in  accordance  with  the  relevant  General  Assembly 
resolutions and decisions.
During 
the  seventieth  session, 
informal  plenary  meetings  during 
the  General 
Assembly  decided  at  its  last  plenary  meeting  on  this 
item  (see  A/70/PV.113)  to  immediately  continue  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  in 
the 
seventy-first  session.  To  facilitate  those  negotiations, 
I  have  appointed  Ambassador  Mohamed  Khiari  of 
Tunisia  and  Ambassador  Ion  Jinga  of  Romania  as 
co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations. I am 
confident  that  they  will  steer  those  negotiations  with 
great skill. I thank them for taking on that critical role 
on behalf of the Assembly, and I call upon all Member 
States  to  extend  their  full  support  and  cooperation  to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-36369 (E)
*1636369*
A/71/PV.42 
07/11/2016
the  co-Chairs  in  order  to  comprehensively  advance 
the  process,  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  General 
Assembly  resolutions.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  warmly  thank  Ambassador  Sylvie 
Lucas  of  Luxembourg  for  her  work  as  Chair  of  the 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  during  the 
seventieth session.
As  we  embark  on  the  next  phase  of  this  Member 
State-driven  process,  we  should  all  acknowledge 
that  meaningful  progress  will  require  genuine  and 
open  dialogue,  bringing  and  receiving  new  ideas  and 
working  together  to  find  areas  of  agreement.  While 
the  sensitivity  and  difficulty  of  those  issues  is  well 
understood, in order for reform to occur Member States 
will need to engage with greater flexibility in a process 
leading  to  substantive  results.  I  will  remain  engaged 
in the process throughout the seventy-first session and 
will  provide  all  necessary  support  to  the  co-Chairs. 
My  door  is  always  open  to  any  delegation  wishing  to 
discuss this matter.
If the United Nations is to be responsive and meet 
the  challenges  of  our  times,  reform  of  the  Security 
Council is essential. We must ensure that the Council 
reflects the realities of the twenty-first century and that 
it is able to deliver on the purposes and principles and 
promise  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Saving 
succeeding generations from the scourge of war is an 
extraordinary  responsibility  shared  by  us  all.  It  is  a 
responsibility that we must not shirk and will not shirk.
Mr.  Sumah  (Sierra  Leone):  I  have  the  honour  to 
deliver this statement on behalf of the States members of 
the African Union. I thank you profusely, Mr. President, 
for your very thoughtful and timely decision to convene 
today’s plenary debate on agenda item 122, “Question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership of the Security Council and other matters 
related to the Security Council”. We take note of and 
thank you for your remarks.
Let  me  congratulate  Mr.  Ion  Jinga,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Romania,  and  Mr.  Mohamed 
Khiari, Permanent Representative of Tunisia, on their 
appointment  as  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  also 
express our support and readiness to work with them in 
building on the gains made so far in the reform process.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the 
commitment of Africa to this very important issue and 
look  forward  to  working  with  you,  Sir,  and  engaging 
the  membership  in  building  a  consensus  that  is  in 
concurrence with decision 62/557 and favourable to the 
common African position, succinctly articulated in the 
Ezulwini Consensus and Sirte Declaration.
the  Security  Council  and 
During  the  seventieth  session,  we  held  myriad 
debates  on  all  of  the  five  negotiable  clusters,  which,  
regrettably, led to the production of an element paper 
that focuses on only two of the five key issues of the 
Security  Council  reform,  namely,  the  relationship 
between 
the  General 
Assembly, and the size of an enlarged Security Council 
and its working methods. At this juncture, I would like 
to reiterate that a document that addresses only two of 
the five key issues of Security Council reform cannot 
be  a  true  basis  for  informing  the  future  work  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  nor  can  it  adequately 
maintain  the  momentum  we  all  seek  to  enable  us  to 
move  towards  text-based  negotiations.  From  those 
exchanges,  it  is  apparent  that  many  Member  States 
believe  that  the  Security  Council  should  be  reformed 
to represent today’s global political realities, which are 
profoundly different from those that were extant at the 
inception of the United Nations 70 years ago.
It  is  clear  that  a  considerable  number  of  Member 
States  support  comprehensive  reform,  in  accordance 
with decision 62/557. In this regard, I wish to reiterate 
that  despite  our  tremendous  differences  on  how  to 
guide  and  move  the  reform  process  forward,  Africa 
supports  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council in a membership-driven manner and is against 
any  piecemeal  reform.  As  we  have  often  stated,  the 
Common  African  Position  emphasizes  that  reform  of 
the United Nations system should be all-inclusive and 
encompass all components. The reform process should 
not  become  an  endless  cycle  —  which  undoubtedly 
runs counter to an early reform of the type set forth by 
the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration. At 
this stage, we must endeavour to reach an agreement on 
how to move forward with the positions and proposals 
of Member States that were circulated on 31 July 2015, 
during the Assembly’s sixty-ninth session, which could 
be  a  good  starting  point  towards  the  harmonization 
of  positions  and  the  eventual  commencement  of  text-
based negotiations.
During the general debate at the General Assembly 
this  year,  several  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
affirmed  the  need  to  reform  the  Security  Council 
in  order  to  make  it  broadly  representative,  efficient 
and  transparent,  and  thereby  further  enhance  its 
2/28 
16-36369
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.42
effectiveness  and  legitimacy  in  the  implementation 
of  its  decisions.  Similarly,  more  and  more  countries 
are  questioning  the  legitimacy  and  credibility  of  the 
Security  Council,  in  which  they  have  no  effective 
voice  or  equitable  regional  representation.  It  is  now 
time for us to walk the talk with a view to reaching an 
agreement on a reform model that takes the core values 
of the United Nations into consideration.
On  two  occasions,  by  letters  dated  23  December 
2009 and 22 April 2015, we submitted our position on all 
five clusters with respect to the previous tiers. Africa’s 
position  on  Security  Council  reform  is  well  known. 
Specifically, it is the only region that is not represented 
in  the  permanent  category  while  being,  at  the  same 
time, underrepresented in the Council’s non-permanent 
category. As a continent, Africa continues to demand 
the redress of this historical injustice.
Given  the  changing  international  landscape,  we 
believe that the obsolete composition and the absence 
of  adequate  representation  of  an  entire  region  is  a 
deficiency  that  risks  compromising  the  legitimacy 
of  the  Council’s  decisions.  In  this  vein,  we  call  for 
an  expansion  of  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories  of  the  Security  Council,  as  well  as  the 
granting to the new members of all of the prerogatives 
and  privileges  of  permanent  members,  including  the 
right  of  the  veto —  if  it  continues  to  exist.  The  need 
to  correct  the  grossly  unjust  scenario  suffered  by  a 
continent comprising 54 countries and accounting for 
70 per cent of the work of the Council is fundamental 
and long overdue.
In pursuit of that objective, we remain committed 
to  building  alliances  with  diverse  interest  groups  and 
Member  States  on  the  basis  of  the  Common  African 
Position,  with  a  view  to  bringing  about  the  reform  of 
the  Security  Council.  It  must  also  be  borne  in  mind 
that,  in  the  business  of  maintaining  international 
peace  and  collective  global  security  and  contributing 
to peacekeeping operations, Africa, like the rest of the 
world,  continues  to  pay  the  ultimate  price  —  which 
is  by  no  means  quantifiable  in  material  or  monetary 
terms. Africa’s demand for at least two permanent seats 
and two additional non-permanent seats is a matter of 
common justice. Africa has the right to have an equal 
say in decision-making on issues of international peace 
and security, and in particular those that concern our 
continent,  which  is  why  we  continue  to  demand  our 
rightful place in the maintenance of peace and security.
It  is  common  knowledge  that  support  for  the 
Common African Position has gained momentum and 
continues to receive large support in the deliberations 
on Africa’s legitimate claim. Since this claim is without 
controversy, it has been recognized and acknowledged 
as legitimate by the general membership. By virtue of 
that, the demand ought to be redressed without further 
delay, which would mean no longer perpetuating a more 
than  50-year-old  injustice,  which  has  in  effect  denied 
the  region  its  dignity  and  rightful  place  in  a  major 
decision-making organ of the Organization.
that  continue 
interest  groups 
On  behalf  of  the  African  Union  member  States, 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the 
delegations  and 
to 
support  the  Common  African  Position.  As  we  have 
often  reiterated,  Africa  stands  ready  to  work  with 
all  delegations  and  interest  groups  for  the  purpose  of 
achieving a solution that can garner the widest possible 
political  acceptance.  For  Africa,  as  represented  by 
the  Committee  of  Ten  on  Security  Council  Reform, 
the  necessary  political  will  for  reform  without 
further  procrastination  is  present  and  propelled  by  a 
common determination.
In conclusion, we hope that under your charismatic 
leadership,  Sir,  the  session  will  build  on  the  progress 
made thus far and increase the momentum for a more 
frank  and  interactive  debate  that  will  aggregate  the 
political  will  present  across  the  member  States  of  the 
African Union, which will, we trust, lead to the early 
reform of the Security Council, in accordance with the 
vision of our world leaders, expressed in unanimity at 
the 2005 World Summit. In this regard, we look forward 
to  further  engaging  the  entire  membership  and  the 
Chairs in good faith and mutual trust. We will remain 
open  to  working  together  with  any  other  initiative 
that will take into account the level of momentum and 
support the Common African Position has gained thus 
far.  We  also  look  forward  to  more  constructive  and 
forward-looking intergovernmental negotiations during 
the seventy-first session and urge all Member States to 
work  together  towards  moving  the  reform  process  to 
text-based negotiations.
Ms. Rambally (Saint Lucia): It remains my great 
honour to deliver this statement on behalf of the L.69 
group of developing countries, indeed a diverse group 
of more than 42 countries from the developing world, 
from  Africa,  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  and 
Asia  and  the  Pacific,  which  continue  to  be  united 
16-36369
3/28
A/71/PV.42 
07/11/2016
by  a  common  cause,  namely,  achieving  lasting  and 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council.
like 
Mr.  President,  we  would 
to  begin  by 
congratulating  you  on  commencing  this  process  in 
earnest, with your letter of 26 October 2016. We welcome 
the appointment as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  of  our  colleagues 
the  Ambassador 
and  Permanent  Representative  of  Romania  and  the 
Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Tunisia. 
I  wish  them  every  success  during  their  tenure  in  this 
task  that  is  so  critical  for  all  of  us  who  compose  the 
United Nations system. I wish to assure the co-Chairs of 
our Group’s full support and cooperation in the period 
ahead.  Our  Group  also  wishes  to  place  on  record  our 
appreciation of the contribution made by Ambassador 
Sylvie  Lucas,  the  former  Permanent  Representative 
of  Luxembourg,  as  Chair  of  the  negotiations  at  the 
seventieth session.
Mr. President, in your letter dated 26 October 2016, 
you  encouraged  Member  States  to  continue  moving 
the process forward through negotiations, building on 
the  progress  made  at  the  sixty-ninth  and  seventieth 
sessions  and  the  framework  document  and  its  annex, 
dated 31 July 2015. It will therefore be important, in the 
next round of intergovernmental negotiations, that we 
commence the process with negotiations and build on 
the texts agreed by consensus — an absolutely essential 
step for moving forward. The L.69 group of developing 
countries  is  now  eager  to  engage  and  would  like  to 
work with you and the co-Chairs to steer this process 
towards  text-based  negotiations  for  the  meaningful, 
no longer early but absolutely necessary reform of the 
Security Council.
Our  group  is  bound  by  the  firm  conviction  that 
expansion  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories  of  membership  of  the  Security  Council  is 
imperative to better reflect contemporary world realities 
and  to  achieve  a  more  accountable,  representative, 
transparent and, above all else, a more relevant Security 
Council. With the complex challenges before our world 
today, that need is both major and urgent. At the most 
recent session of the intergovernmental negotiations, it 
was clear to us all that there were convergences among 
the  positions  of  Member  States  on  all  five  pillars  of 
Security Council reform. As the elements paper of the 
Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  summed 
up convergences in only two of the five reform pillars, 
however,  the  task  remained  unfinished.  We  would 
urge  the  co-Chairs  to  finish  the  task  by  summing  up 
the  convergences  among  positions  of  Member  States 
in  all  five  pillars  of  Security  Council  reform,  as  was 
reflected  in  the  statements  made  by  Member  States 
during the seventieth session. I would like to add that, 
in  completing  that  important  task,  the  co-Chairs  can 
rely on the support of our Group from beginning to end.
We very much welcome the newly formed Group of 
Friends on Security Council Reform, of which the L.69 
group  is  a  member.  The  Group  of  Friends  will  work 
together with the aim of accelerating the negotiations 
process  for  meaningful  reform  of  the  Council  based 
on three principles: early or urgent reforms, text-based 
negotiations  and  the  expansion  of  both  categories  of 
membership.  We  welcome  other  Member  States  that 
want to join the Group on the basis of its principles.
I  would  like  to  reiterate  our  Group’s  support  for 
your  efforts,  Mr.  President,  and  look  forward  to  your 
continued  engagement 
throughout 
the session.
the  process 
in 
Mr. Cardi (Italy): Mr. President, on behalf of the 
Uniting  for  Consensus  (UfC)  group,  I  wish  to  thank 
you  for  convening  the  annual  debate  on  Security 
Council  reform,  and  to  express  our  appreciation  for 
your  engagement  in  the  reform  process  with  a  new 
and  fresh  approach.  The  first  concrete  sign  of  that 
engagement was your decision to appoint Ambassadors 
Ion  Jinga  and  Khaled  Khiari  as  co-facilitators  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  warmly  welcome 
them in their new capacities, and wish to immediately 
offer  our  full  cooperation  and  support  in  their  new 
pivotal responsibilities.
The  appointment  of  two  co-facilitators  attests  to 
the need to explore alternative approaches, as emerged 
during the seventieth session of the General Assembly. 
In particular, the search for broad convergences among 
Member  States,  pursued  during  the  previous  session 
under  the  stewardship  of  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas, 
exemplifies  the  consensual  path  we  believe  is  key  to 
achieving  concrete  results.  Hence,  for  this  session  of 
work, the UfC reiterates the need to stay on this path 
and  focus  on  the  real  convergences  in  the  remaining 
clusters of the reform process. Our work must be done 
in a true spirit of compromise while putting aside what 
has  hampered  the  achievement  of  a  common  goal  for 
too many years.
A new Security Council, grounded in a democratic 
and  inclusive  vision,  remains  the  political  priority 
of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group.  That  inclusive 
4/28 
16-36369
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.42
vision goes hand in hand with the conviction that the 
reform  cannot  but  be  consensual.  We  are  certain  that 
the reform of the United Nations body responsible for 
international peace and security requires the support of 
the entire United Nations membership. After all, it was 
along that very same path that we were able to change 
the  method  of  selection  and  appointment  of  the  head 
of  the  Organization,  proving  that  consensual  reform 
is possible.
I  think  we  are  all  aware  of  the  frustration  felt 
by  Member  States  owing  to  the  lack  of  progress  in  a 
reform that has been discussed for over 20 years. The 
Uniting for Consensus countries, as well as influential 
external observers, have stated that the evidence clearly 
points to the only true obstacle to reform: the call for 
an  increase  in  the  number  of  permanent  members  of 
the Council — with the veto, without the veto or with a 
suspended veto. In our view, this is the only reason for 
the stalemate we have been experiencing in the reform 
process. In our view, no Member State should be scared 
of facing elections — certainly not those who own all 
the  means  of  succeeding  and  contribute  substantially 
to  the  work  of  the  Council.  That  is  why  we  invite  all 
Member  States  to  genuinely  commit  to  reforming  the 
Council, together with Uniting for Consensus countries, 
in a manner that takes into account all views.
There  is  no  Member  State  in  the  Hall  today  that 
disagrees  with  the  idea  of  expanding  the  number  of 
non-permanent seats on the Council. No Member State 
is against such an increase, which will favour countries 
belonging to the underrepresented regions of the world. 
In contrast, a very significant and growing number of 
Member States has opposed an expanded use of the veto 
and, rather, supports its limitation. In our view, that is 
the common ground on which to base the solution that 
will  finally  unlock  the  reform  process.  We  owe  this 
attempt to those who believe in a renewed Organization 
and therefore in a modern Security Council that is more 
representative,  democratic,  accountable,  transparent 
and effective.
A  more  representative  and  democratic  Security 
Council  means  offering  an  equal  opportunity  to  all 
Member  States  to  serve  periodically  on  the  Council 
itself, as well as enhancing the right of the membership 
to  decide  and  adapt  the  Council’s  composition  on  a 
regular basis. In line with this perspective, the Uniting 
for Consensus countries are committed to a reform that 
increases,  rather  than  reduces,  the  democratic  nature 
of the Council — a reform that is centred on elective, 
non-permanent  seats  in  the  belief  that,  in  the  twenty-
first  century,  this  is  the  only  formula  that  can  have 
a  positive  and  credible  impact  on  the  legitimacy  and 
authority of the United Nations body responsible for the 
maintenance of international peace and security.
I  think  that  there  is  no  need  to  explain  how  such 
a  reform  would  also  have  a  tremendous  impact  on 
regional representation, by fostering a wider and fairer 
rotation  within  regional  groups.  In  addition,  it  will 
create  a  favourable  ratio  of  non-permanent  members 
to  permanent  members  in  the  Security  Council.  Such 
a change will improve the Council’s working methods, 
augment 
its  decision-making  capacity,  present  a 
democratic  challenge  to  the  veto  and  improve  the 
overall  relationship  between  the  Council  and  the 
General Assembly.
Any  decision  in  the  near  future  on  the  Security 
Council reform process will require true flexibility and 
willingness  to  compromise.  Over  the  years,  the  UfC 
Group has tried to capture those new elements emerging 
from discussions in the intergovernmental negotiations 
that could bridge the gap with other negotiating groups. 
In that perspective, the increasing support for what is 
known as the intermediate approach represents a new 
factor  in  the  search  for  a  compromise  solution  and 
deserves our full attention.
The UfC countries are proposing that, in addition to 
an expansion of non-permanent seats, a new category of 
longer-term, non-permanent seats, with the possibility 
of  an  immediate  re-election,  should  be  established. 
Those new seats would not be reserved for a selected 
group of countries; all Member States willing to make 
a larger contribution to the work of the Council would 
have the right to contest elections for a longer-term seat 
on the basis of equitable geographical distribution and a 
fair system of rotation. Periodic elections would ensure 
the accountability of the longer-term members.
The Uniting for Consensus group stands ready to 
cooperate with you, Mr. President, the new co-Chairs 
and the whole membership for advancing this process 
in the firm conviction that Security Council reform is 
possible  in  the  short  term.  In  keeping  with  decision 
62/557, we shall continue to work for a comprehensive 
reform that can gather the widest consensus. The UfC 
Group  can  be  counted  on  to  redouble  its  efforts  in 
that direction.
Mr. Alotaibi (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): I have the 
honour to deliver this statement on behalf of the Group 
16-36369
5/28
A/71/PV.42 
07/11/2016
of Arab States. At the outset, I would like to express the 
support of the Arab Group for your work, Mr. President, 
particularly in leading these negotiations. We welcome 
the  appointment  of  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari  of 
Tunisia and Ion Jinga of Romania as co-Chairs of the 
intergovernmental negotiations process.
Security  Council  reform 
to  ensure  equitable 
representation is a key aspect of overall United Nations 
reform.  It  is  all  the  more  important  as  the  world  has 
been  undergoing  rapid  change,  which  challenges  us 
to step up efforts to revitalize the role of the Security 
Council  with  a  view  to  making  it  more  effective  and 
enabling it to meet current challenges, while respecting 
the principles of transparency, neutrality and credibility.
The  debate  on  enlarging  the  Security  Council  and  its 
working  methods  was  started  some  considerable  time 
ago.  There  are  differing  positions  on  the  subject.  We 
must once again turn our attention to this very important 
issue and seek consensual solutions.
The  world  has  changed  significantly  since  the 
establishment  of  the  United  Nations  in  1945.  It  is 
therefore  high  time  to  embark  on  this  reform.  In  that 
context,  the  Arab  Group  stresses  that  views  on  the 
question  of  the  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council 
should be expressed in intergovernmental negotiations, 
in  accordance  with  decision  62/557.  The  Arab  Group 
believes that when the intergovernmental negotiations 
are relaunched at the current session, all the proposals 
put forward by members of the Arab Group should be 
on  the  table.  This  is  the  basis  that  should  guide  the 
co-Chairs’ work, so that we can move forward on the 
question of Security Council reform.
The  Arab  Group  reaffirms  its  strong  position, 
which is founded on the principle of consensus among 
Member States. We are facing numerous challenges and 
disagreements on the issue of the excessive use of the 
veto  by  the  five  permanent  Council  members,  which 
undermines  the  credibility  of  the  Council’s  decisions 
and hinders its efficiency in maintaining international 
peace  and  security.  The  use  of  the  veto  by  the  five 
permanent members in recent years has allowed those 
members to defend their own narrow national interests 
and those of their allies. Despite the fact that the veto 
is being used less and less, it is still an efficient means 
for  certain  Governments  to  absolve  themselves  of 
responsibility. Over the past 20 years, the veto has been 
used 27 times, 15 of them to protect the activities of the 
Israeli authorities in the occupied Arab territories.
It  is  necessary  to  reform  the  working  methods 
of  the  Security  Council  in  order  to  make  them  more 
transparent and more efficient. We must also revise the 
rules of procedure of the Security Council and replace 
the  provisional  rules  of  procedure  of  many  years’ 
duration. It is also important to increase the number of 
public meetings of the Security Council and the number 
of meetings in general. We must allow non-members of 
the Security Council to participate. It is also necessary 
to decrease the number of closed meetings and informal 
consultations. It is imperative that the Security Council 
involve the States that will be affected by the decisions 
it  takes  when  it  considers  agenda  items  that  are  of 
relevance  to  those  States.  The  League  of  Arab  States 
calls on the subsidiary bodies of the Security Council 
to  inform  all  Member  States  of  their  activities.  The 
position of the members of the Arab Group is that there 
should be a permanent seat and a non-permanent seat 
for Arab States on the Security Council.
To conclude, we commit to participating in the next 
round  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  with  a  view 
to reaching a consensus decision that will allow us to 
comprehensively reform the Security Council.
Mr. Braun (Germany): I have the honour to speak 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Four  (G-4):  Brazil,  India, 
Japan and Germany.
To begin, I would like to thank you, Mr. President, 
for personally reaching out to groups and Member States 
in  the  run-up  to  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
at  the  seventy-first  session  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Let me join other previous speakers in congratulating 
our  colleagues,  Ion  Jinga  and  Khaled  Khiari,  whom 
you  have  appointed  to  chair  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations. I wish them great success in their critical 
task and pledge our support to their work and to yours.
thoughts  with  everyone 
Let  me  share 
assembled here today.
three 
First,  reform  is  urgent.  As  far  back  as  2005,  our 
Heads of State and Government underscored the need 
for an early reform of the Security Council, yet little to 
no real progress has been achieved since then. Here in 
New York, we painfully observe the shortcomings of the 
Security Council in its outdated composition, reflecting 
the year 1945, and its inadequate working methods. The 
Security  Council  must  be  rendered  fit  for  purpose  in 
order to be able to face the global challenges of peace 
and security in the twenty-first century. Unfortunately, 
and  painfully,  those  challenges  remain  before  us  in 
6/28 
16-36369
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.42
their cruel brutality every day. Fit for purpose means 
that all regions, including the developing world, must 
be adequately represented in order to ensure legitimacy 
and  effectiveness.  Hence,  I  have  no  doubt  that  all  of 
us here agree on the importance of the assignment on 
reform we have been given and that an actual negotiation 
and a decision-making process are due now.
Secondly,  there  are  sufficient  grounds  for  real 
negotiations. Some perpetuate the myth that the States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  are  opposing  one 
another  in  irreconcilable  positions  on  reform.  That  is 
false. The most recent session of the intergovernmental 
negotiations amplified what has been visible for years 
already.  There  exist  real  convergences  among  the 
positions of Member States and convergences in all five 
pillars of Security Council reform. The elements paper 
issued at the end of the seventieth session summed up 
convergences  in  only  two  out  of  five  reform  pillars. 
However,  there  were  convergences  even  in  the  most 
disputed  fields.  To  cite  just  one  example,  a  large  and 
growing majority of Member States supports expansion 
of the Council in both categories of seats. Earlier on, 
that  fact  had  been  confirmed  in  documents  by  the 
Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations in 2009, 
2012  and  2014.  That  and  all  the  other  convergences 
should be the guide for our current negotiation process.
Thirdly, there is a legitimate basis for negotiations. 
During  the  sixty-ninth  session,  Member  States  were 
invited  to  record  their  positions  on  all  five  pillars  of 
Security  Council  reform  in  writing.  That  led  to  the 
compilation  and  adoption  by  consensus  of  one  of  the 
most democratically legitimate documents on Security 
Council reform in existence — the framework document 
and  its  annex,  as  circulated  by  the  then  President  of 
the General Assembly in his letter dated 31 July 2015. 
That is the most comprehensive and legitimate basis for 
negotiations that we have to date. By the way, for those 
who have not contributed to the document so far, to my 
knowledge  the  invitation  remains  open  to  come  and 
have their positions included as well.
lead 
Those  facts 
to  a  profound  conclusion: 
real,  text-based  negotiations  must  begin  now,  in  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  at  the  seventy-first 
session. We therefore request that the co-Chairs use the 
text of the existing framework document and its annex 
as  a  basis  for  negotiations  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations. The aim should be to condense that text 
step by step and to create a workable document in the 
course of this session of the Assembly.
In  that  regard,  we  very  much  welcome  the  newly 
founded  Group  of  Friends  on  Security  Council 
Reform.  Representatives  at  the  ministerial  or  senior 
official  level  of  Member  States  belonging  to  reform-
oriented groups — including the Committee of Ten, the 
Caribbean Community, the G-4 countries and the L.69 
group  —  and  representatives  of  Nordic  and  Eastern 
European countries, as well as France and the United 
Kingdom, all met in New York on 21 September in the 
margins of the General Assembly to discuss the issue 
of  Security  Council  reform.  They  underlined  that  11 
years  after  the  2005  World  Summit,  when  all  Heads 
of  State  and  Government  unanimously  called  for  an 
early reform of the Security Council, it was high time 
to finally move forward. They agreed to work together 
with  the  aim  of  accelerating  the  negotiating  process 
for a meaningful reform of the Council. The Group of 
Friends is based on three principles: early reform, text-
based negotiations and expansion in both categories of 
seats. They welcome other Member States joining the 
group based on those goals.
In  conclusion,  in  the  light  of  those  principles,  we 
strive  for  nothing  less  than  meaningful  text-based 
negotiations  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
We  call  on  you,  Mr.  President,  to  let  your  leadership 
reflect that level of ambition among the vast majority 
of Member States. Last but not least, we count on the 
co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations to aim 
high, to put our long-standing requests into action and 
to start the negotiations now.
Mr.  Sauer  (Finland):  I  am  speaking  on  behalf  of 
the  Nordic  countries  —  Denmark,  Iceland,  Norway, 
Sweden  and  my  own  country,  Finland.  The  Nordic 
countries  welcome  the  appointment  of  Ambassador 
Ion Jinga, Permanent Representative of Romania, and 
Ambassador  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Tunisia,  as  co-Chairs  of  this  round 
of intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform.  We  would  like  to  express  our  support  for 
their work.
Our  common  objective  should  be  to  make  the 
Security  Council  more  representative,  transparent, 
effective and accountable than is currently the case. An 
enlarged Security Council would need to better reflect 
today’s world, in particular with regard to Africa. As 
we  discuss  the  size  and  composition  of  the  Council, 
we also need to continue to discuss how the Council’s 
working methods can be continuously improved in order 
to ensure efficiency, transparency and accountability.
16-36369
7/28
A/71/PV.42 
07/11/2016
The  last  two  rounds  of  negotiations,  under  the 
able  leadership  of  Ambassadors  Rattray  and  Lucas, 
showed a high degree of engagement and an increasing 
convergence  on  key  issues.  We  were  encouraged  by 
the  positive  atmosphere  in  which  the  last  round  of 
negotiations  took  place.  We  are  therefore  optimistic 
that  it  is  possible  to  move  ahead  towards  meaningful 
reform of the Council by building on the progress that 
has  been  made  during  the  past  two  years.  That  will 
require the continued will of Member States to engage 
in the process, to be open to new ideas and to be willing 
to listen to the views of others. Only then can we find 
the  necessary  common  ground  to  move  forward.  We 
trust that the recently established Group of Friends on 
Security Council Reform, which was also mentioned by 
the representatives of Saint Lucia and Germany a few 
minutes ago, will have a positive impact on those efforts.
Mr. Pecsteen de Buytswerve (Belgium) (spoke in 
French): Mr. President, I thank you for convening this 
meeting.  I  have  the  honour  of  speaking  on  behalf  of 
Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg.
The reform of the Security Council is important for 
the  credibility  and  smooth  functioning  of  the  United 
Nations. Reform of the Council is necessary if we are to 
make it more representative, effective and transparent. 
That is an objective that we hold dear and is shared by 
all. I will not repeat the positions of our three countries 
on the specifics of the reform, as they are well known 
and  reflected  in  President  Kutesa’s  letter  of  31  July 
2015  and  in  the  elements  of  the  convergence  paper 
distributed  on  12  July  by  Mr.  Lykketoft,  President  of 
the General Assembly at its seventieth session.
I  will  confine  myself  to  stressing  the  importance 
of  increasing  the  representativeness  of  the  Council 
by  enabling  African  countries  to  take  their  rightful 
place  on  the  Council  and  by  ensuring  the  effective 
participation  of  small  and  medium-sized  States  in 
the  work  of  an  enlarged  Council.  Given  the  growing 
inclusion  of  regional  organizations  in  the  work  of 
the  Security  Council,  we  also  believe  that  we  should 
pay  more  attention  to  that  aspect  in  our  Council 
reform considerations.
Over  recent  years,  progress  has  been  made.  We 
must keep that momentum going. Allow me to reiterate 
our special thanks to Ambassador Sylvie Lucas for the 
impartial,  effective  and  transparent  manner  in  which 
she presided over the intergovernmental negotiations on 
the reform of the Security Council during the seventieth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  hope  that  the 
substantial elements of convergence that were identified 
at that session will be useful in future negotiations and 
that they will be a source of inspiration for the further 
narrowing of gaps in our positions, with a view to the 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council.
I  extend  our  congratulations  to  the  Permanent 
Representatives of Tunisia and Romania, Ambassadors 
Khaled  Khiari  and  Ion  Jinga,  on  being  appointed  to 
chair  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform.  We  must  all  contribute  if  we  are  to 
make  headway.  We  are  convinced  that  if  the  Member 
States engage and negotiate in good faith, the Security 
Council  can  be  reformed.  For  our  part,  our  three 
countries  will  continue  to  participate  actively  in  the 
negotiations. The co-Chairs and you, Sir, can count on 
our full support.
Ms.  Bird  (Australia):  At  the  outset,  let  me  join 
others in welcoming your appointment of the co-Chairs 
for  the  session,  Ambassador  Jinga  and  Ambassador 
Khiari.  I  express  Australia’s  sincere  appreciation  to 
Ambassador Lucas of Luxembourg for her stewardship 
as Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations over the 
past year and to Ambassador Rattray, her predecessor 
the year before.
Although the past two sessions did not deliver on the 
scale and pace that we had hoped for, they nonetheless 
took  important  steps  towards  a  long-overdue  reform 
of  the  Security  Council.  In  particular,  the  paper  on 
elements of convergence developed over the past year 
provides a sound starting point for the current session.
Australia’s  position  on  Security  Council  reform 
is  well  known.  We  believe  that  the  Council  needs  to 
better  reflect  contemporary  geopolitical  realities,  and 
that  means  more  representation  for  Asia,  Africa  and 
Latin America. However, we have also been clear that 
enlargement must not reduce the ability of the Council 
to  act  swiftly  and  decisively.  Accordingly,  expansion 
must take place within limits and must be accompanied 
by improvements in the Council’s working methods.
On  working  methods,  we  have  long  advocated 
for greater transparency in the Council’s work, better 
coordination  between  the  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly,  more  analytical  reporting,  and  better 
troop-  and  police-contributing 
consultation  with 
countries.  We  are  pleased 
the  elements  of 
convergence identify a range of measures that address 
those issues. Through those measures, Member States 
that 
8/28 
16-36369
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.42
have  the  opportunity  to  take  practical  steps  that  can 
immediately  improve  the  Council’s  working  methods. 
We  urge  Member  States  to  move  forward  with  their 
implementation  without  delay.  Doing  so  would  build 
confidence  that  the  process  can  and  will  deliver  on 
much-needed reform, and, in turn, that momentum will 
serve us well in addressing the more challenging issues 
on our agenda, such as the question of the veto.
Our  discussion  here  takes  place  at  a  time  when 
the  Security  Council  is  more  divided  than  ever.  The 
growing catastrophe in Syria, its unacceptable human 
cost  and  the  Council’s  inability  to  act  must  imbue 
us  with  fresh  resolve.  We  urge  all  Member  States, 
and  especially  the  five  permament  members  of  the 
Security  Council,  to  commit  to  the  Accountability, 
Coherence, Transparency Group’s code of conduct and 
the complementary French-Mexican declaration, which 
call for restraint on the use of the veto in situations of 
mass atrocity.
More  is  at  stake  than  simply  tweaking  the  edges 
of  the  rule  book.  Ultimately,  our  work  here  is  about 
creating conditions of change. It is about ensuring that 
the Security Council fulfils its responsibility and acts 
when needed. It will be our success or our failure in this 
endeavour that shapes how the Council responds to the 
crises of tomorrow.
Mr.  Safronkov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  We  thank  you,  Sir,  for  convening  today’s 
meeting.  Security  Council  reform  is  one  of  the  most 
complex  issues  on  the  agenda  of  the  United  Nations, 
under whose Charter the Council is the principal organ 
responsible for the maintenance of international peace 
and security.
We congratulate the Permanent Representatives of 
Romania and Tunisia on their appointment as co-Chairs 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  trust  that 
their work will be based on the principles of objectivity 
and  impartiality  and  will  consider  the  full  range  of 
positions  of  Member  States.  The  principle  of  “do  no 
harm” is of relevance here.
Today’s  meeting  marks 
the  beginning  of 
discussions on Security Council reform at the seventy-
first  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  This  issue  has 
been discussed for many years now and has presented 
extreme difficulties. Member States have been able to 
achieve  some  progress,  but  a  universal  solution  that 
could  enjoy  the  broadest  possible  support  is  not  yet 
in  sight.  The  positions  on  reform  of  the  main  players 
continue  to  differ  substantially  and  are  sometimes 
diametrically opposed. That being so, we see no other 
alternative  but  to  continue  at  the  current  session  the 
patient,  incremental  work  of  bringing  our  negotiating 
positions closer together.
to  effectively  and  promptly  respond 
Our  own  position  is  well  known.  Russia,  as  a 
permanent member of the Security Council, emphasizes 
the  need  to  make  that  organ  more  representative 
through  the  inclusion  of  developing  countries  from 
Asia,  Africa  and  Latin  America.  However,  efforts  to 
this  end  should  not  affect  the  ability  of  the  Security 
Council 
to 
emerging  challenges.  Accordingly,  we  stand  for 
preserving  the  compact  composition  of  the  Security 
Council.  Its  optimum  size  should  not  exceed  the  low 
twenties.  Any  proposal  to  curtail  the  prerogatives  of 
the current permanent members, including the right of 
the veto, are unacceptable to us. It should be recalled 
that  the  institution  of  the  veto  is  an  important  factor 
that  encourages  Council  members  to  seek  balanced 
solutions.  It  would  be  historically  and  politically 
incorrect to encroach on that right, and the prerogatives 
of the current permanent members should therefore not 
be reviewed.
We fully support the opinion voiced several times 
from  this  rostrum  that  the  process  of  reforming  the 
Security  Council  should  be  owned  by  all  Member 
States without exception, and that its ultimate formula 
should  enjoy  the  widest  possible  support  of  Member 
States. If consensus on the issue is impossible, it will 
be politically necessary to obtain the support of a larger 
number of States than the legally required minimum of 
a two-thirds majority of the General Assembly.
We  strongly  believe  that  Security  Council  reform 
cannot  be  addressed  through  a  purely  arithmetical 
approach by putting various models to the vote in order 
to  obtain  the  minimum  required  number  of  votes.  A 
result reached in this manner would hardly add to the 
authority  and  effectiveness  of  the  Security  Council, 
let alone strengthen the unity of the United Nations. It 
would in fact achieve quite the opposite.
We are prepared to consider any reasonable option 
for the Security Council’s expansion, including the so-
called intermediate approach — which is essentially a 
compromise — provided once again that it is based on the 
broadest possible consensus within the United Nations. 
We  expect  the  efforts  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly and the co-Chairs of the intergovernmental 
16-36369
9/28
A/71/PV.42 
07/11/2016
negotiations to be directed at providing the maximum 
possible  support  and  facilitation  for  the  negotiation 
process, with the understanding that ownership of the 
progress remains with Member States. This meticulous 
work  should  be  conducted  in  a  calm,  transparent  and 
inclusive  manner  without  arbitrary  or  artificial  time 
frames.  We  must  all  clearly  understand  that  this  is  a 
task where there is no place for deadlines or attempts 
to address this complex problem with a simple stroke 
of a pen.
In conclusion, let us not forget the most important 
thing: progress in reforming the Security Council cannot 
be achieved on the basis of some kind of coordinator’s 
texts,  negotiating  documents  or  other  proposals  that 
have  not  received  the  approval  of  all  Member  States. 
Previous sessions of the General Assembly have shown 
the futility and the danger of attempts to force a solution 
to this reform issue that is not based on consensus. It is 
equally unacceptable to apply unilateral pressure on the 
co-Chairs. 
Progress  in  Security  Council  reform  will  depend 
solely on the political will of Member States and their 
willingness  to  achieve  a  reasonable  compromise.  We 
urge  all  Member  States  to  follow  this  fundamental 
approach.
Mr.  Rycroft  (United  Kingdom):  My  thanks  go 
to  Ambassadors  Jinga  and  Khiari  for  taking  on  the 
leadership of the intergovernmental negotiations.
The  United  Kingdom  is  a  long-standing  and  firm 
supporter of the need for reform of the Security Council. 
When London hosted the first meeting of the Security 
Council  back  in  1946,  there  were  11  members.  The 
membership increased to its current 15 in 1965. In the 
intervening  years,  the  United  Nations  has  grown  and 
the  world  has  changed  dramatically,  but  the  Security 
Council has failed to keep pace with that change. It is 
right  and  fair  that  the  world’s  principal  organ  for  the 
maintenance of international peace and security should 
be representative of the world it seeks to protect.
The United Kingdom therefore welcomes all efforts 
to move this debate forward, including the establishment 
of  the  Group  of  Friends.  When  we  consider  Security 
Council  reform,  we  must  of  course  be  mindful  of  the 
need  to  ensure  its  effectiveness  and  make  sure  that 
this  is  never  compromised.  Too  great  an  increase  in 
size  risks  a  cumbersome  and  slow  decision-making 
process, undermining the Council’s ability to respond 
appropriately  and  quickly  to  issues  of  international 
peace and security. With so many challenges before us, 
that is a risk we cannot take.
By the same token, we cannot allow the issue of the 
veto to slow our progress on expansion of the Council. 
The  United  Kindgom  has  not  vetoed  a  resolution  for 
over  25  years,  and  we  would  do  so  only  in  the  most 
exceptional  circumstances.  We  are  a  proud  signatory 
of  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency 
Group’s  code  of  conduct,  and  we  are  committed  to 
never  voting  against  a  credible  draft  resolution  on 
preventing  or  ending  a  mass  atrocity.  Sadly,  we  have 
seen others wield their veto through narrow self-interest 
to  the  significant  detriment  of  the  Security  Council’s 
reputation and indeed its responsibility to those who so 
desperately need our help.
in 
For  these  reasons,  we  believe  that  a  modest 
expansion 
the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories,  an  increase  that  balances  representation 
with  effectiveness,  is  the  approach  that  we  should 
collectively  pursue.  Members  will  be  aware  of  our 
support for permanent seats for Brazil, Germany, India 
and Japan, alongside permanent African representation. 
British Prime Minister Theresa May is today in India 
discussing  that  very  issue  with  Prime  Minister  Modi. 
Our support is steadfast, and I look forward to working 
through  all  available  avenues  to  reach  the  more 
representative and more effective Council that we seek.
Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  China 
welcomes  the  appointment  of  Ambassador  Jinga, 
Permanent Representative of Romania, and Ambassador 
Mohamed Khiari, Permanent Representative of Tunisia, 
as  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process on Security Council reform. China will actively 
support their work.
 During the membership-led process of negotiations 
at  the  seventieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly, 
Member  States  carried  out 
in-depth  and  candid 
exchanges of views on the five pillars of reform of the 
Security  Council  in  a  generally  practical  atmosphere 
and  achieved  favourable  results.  China  appreciates 
that development.
Reforming  the  Security  Council  is  systematic 
engineering work involving both the immediate interests 
of Member States and the long-term development of the 
United  Nations.  China  is  and  has  consistently  been  a 
supporter of an appropriate and necessary reform of the 
Security Council, advocating that priority be given to the 
increased  representation  in  the  Council  of  developing 
10/28 
16-36369
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.42
countries,  particularly  African  countries,  with  a  view 
to  enabling  more  of  them,  especially  the  small  and 
medium-sized countries that constitute the majority of 
the  United  Nations  membership,  to  participate  in  the 
work and decision-making of the Council and to play a 
greater role in the maintenance of international peace 
and security.
provide 
negotiations 
Intergovernmental 
an 
important platform for Member States to engage in an 
extensive exchange of views, deepen their understanding 
of issues and bridge their differences. Such negotiations 
should conform to decision 62/557 and the consensus of 
the membership. They should be membership-led and 
should be based on the proposals and recommendations 
of  Member  States.  China  supports  the  work  of  the 
co-Chairs, which, in accordance with decision 62/557 
and  based  on  the  principles  ogf    of  objectivity  and 
fairness, is aimed at facilitating the efforts of Member 
States  to  gradually  bridge  their  differences  on  the 
reform  of  the  Council  and  to  steadily  move  closer 
towards each other’s positions.
in 
the 
China  hopes  that  Member  States  will  continue 
to  work  constructively 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  and,  on  the  basis  of  extensive  and 
democratic  consultations,  will  arrive  at  the  broadest 
possible consensus on the five groups of issues as one 
package. No artificial deadlines should be set on reform, 
nor should any immature proposals be imposed. China 
is ready to work together with all sides to ensure that 
reform of the Security Council will move in a direction 
that is in both the common interest of Member States 
and the long-term interests of the United Nations.
Ms. Sison (United States of America): The United 
States  looks  forward  to  embarking  on  another  round 
of intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform.  I  would  like  to  welcome  our  new  co-Chairs 
Ambassador  Jinga  and  Ambassador  Khiari.  We  will 
depend on the two of them for guidance over the coming 
months as we work to advance reform. The decision to 
put the leadership of the intergovernmental negotiations 
under a co-Chair arrangement reflects the practice used 
throughout many of the General Assembly committees 
and  working  groups,  and  we  look  forward  to  seeing 
how that dynamic can encourage the broad consensus 
necessary for reform.
I  would  also  like  to  extend  our  deep  gratitude  to 
Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas  for  her  leadership  as  Chair 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  last  year.  Her 
efforts  to  encourage  members  to  work  towards  areas 
of convergence were proof that the intergovernmental 
negotiations can work together to achieve progress. In 
addition to a new General Assembly President and new 
co-Chairs,  this  year’s  intergovernmental  negotiations 
will  of  course  come  under  the  purview  of  a  new 
Secretary-General.  The  United  States  has  been  clear 
about  our  hope  that  broader  United  Nations  reform 
will be a major priority over the next few years. And 
we  understand  that  many  Members  would  like  to  see 
Council reform be a part of that.
We  know  that  many  Member  States  believe  that 
intergovernmental  negotiations  have  debated 
the 
issue  for  far  too  long,  with  far  too  little  action  and 
that  only  through  text-based  negotiations  can  we 
achieve  substantial  progress.  We  also  recognize  that 
there  are  differences  of  opinion  regarding  how  we 
should conduct the negotiations and on what text they 
should be based. The United States remains open to all 
manner  of  negotiations  within  the  framework  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  so  long  as  they  help 
us  arrive  at  the  broad  consensus  necessary  to  reach 
agreement on Council reform.
last  year’s 
Reflecting  on 
intergovernmental 
negotiations, while our joint efforts towards convergence 
were  serious  and  certainly  commendable,  it  was  also 
clear  how  carefully  we  would  need  to  proceed  for  us 
all  to  endorse  a  common  approach.  But  whatever  the 
eventual  path  of  the  negotiations,  we  must  ensure 
that  they  enhance  the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of 
the Security Council and allow us to more effectively 
address the pressing challenges to international peace 
and security. Ultimately, we recognize that for reform 
to be successful, our decisions must enjoy the broadest 
possible consensus. In order to achieve that, the United 
States  will  support  reasonable  proposals  for  modest 
expansion  of  the  Council,  in  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories.  Any  consideration  of 
which  countries  merit  future  permanent  membership 
must  take  into  account  their  ability  and  willingness 
to  contribute  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security and to their ability to exercise the 
heavy responsibilities that come with Security Council 
membership. We remain opposed to any expansion or 
alteration of the veto.
You,  Sir,  and  the  co-Chairs  have  the  support  of 
the  United  States  as  we  once  more  work  towards  a 
comprehensive  solution  that  can  secure  the  broadest 
support of the Member States.
16-36369
11/28
A/71/PV.42 
07/11/2016
Mr.  Sareer  (Maldives):  At  the  outset,  I  wish 
to  express  my  appreciation  to  you,  Mr.  President, 
for  convening  this  debate  and  carrying  forward  the 
dialogue on the important subject of Security Council 
reform.  In 
that  regard  my  delegation  welcomes 
the  appointment  of  Ambassador  Jinga,  Permanent 
Representative of Romania, and Ambassador Mohamed 
Khalid  Khiari,  Permanent  Representative  of  Tunisia, 
as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations on 
Security Council reform. I also take this opportunity to 
express  our  profound  gratitude  to  Ambassador  Sylvie 
Lucas,  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg,  for 
her  dedicated  efforts  and  leadership  in  steering  the 
intergovernmental negotiations during the past year.
My delegation notes that over the years, including at 
the previous session of the General Assembly, Member 
States continued to reaffirm their common desire and 
aspiration  to  reform  the  Security  Council  in  order  to 
make it more inclusive, representative, legitimate and 
accountable. Yet, a strong divergence of views on how 
to achieve reform persists, and that has meant that the 
process has made little meaningful progress to date.
The  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  share 
the goal of a more representative, accountable, effective 
and  democratic  Security  Council.  The  Maldives  has 
been  at  the  forefront  of  calls  for  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council since 1979. Like other Member States, 
the  Maldives  is  of  the  view  that  the  comprehensive 
reform  and  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  are 
essential  to  making  it  democratic  in  composition, 
effective  in  decision-making  and  accountable  to  the 
general  membership.  We  believe  that  Council  reform 
should transcend current global power politics and that 
its  decisions  should  reflect  the  collective  will  of  the 
general membership.
Reform should not only be based on contemporary 
realities but should also take into account the outcome 
of the Council’s decisions. Making the Security Council 
more  representative  and  balanced  and  its  work  more 
effective and transparent, especially with regard to its 
decision-making process, is vital if the United Nations 
is  to  be  adapted  to  the  global  realities  of  the  twenty-
first  century.  Such  reform  should  be  implemented  in 
strict  compliance  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the Charter of the United Nations.
During the high-level segment of the current session 
of  the  General  Assembly,  many  leaders  reiterated 
their  call  for  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  My 
delegation  believes  that  that  attests  to  the  urgent  and 
growing need for the Assembly to achieve substantial 
results.  During  the  Assembly’s  general  debate,  my 
delegation  underlined  the  importance  of  having  a 
fair  and  equitable  opportunity  to  serve  (see  A/71/
PV.21).  The  Maldives  believes  that  the  expansion  of 
the Council’s membership is essential for the Council’s 
continued legitimacy and relevance. We believe that the 
membership of the Security Council should come from 
both  developing  and  developed  countries,  including 
from small States, and that such membership should be 
reflective of the United Nations diverse membership.
That is why the Maldives is seeking election to a 
non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the 
term 2019-2020. This is the first time that my country 
has presented its candidature for a Security Council seat 
since it became a Member of the Organization 51 years 
ago. We believe that every country, regardless of size 
and might, must have the opportunity to serve, because 
we believe that it is not size but the will to contribute that 
makes a difference, and because, moreover, we believe 
that the opportunity to serve must be based on intent, 
resolve,  fairness  and  the  principle  of  representation. 
The Maldives is eager to see a contemporary Security 
Council  that  is  more  representative  and  influential 
and that reflects the changes that have taken place in 
recent years.
Concurrent  but  separate  to  the  debate  on  the 
long-term reform of the Security Council, the current 
functioning  and  working  methods  of  the  Council  are 
key focus areas for the Maldives, as well. The Maldives 
strongly  supports  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and 
Transparency Group’s code of conduct pertaining to the 
Security Council, which are key traits that need to be 
reflected in the Council’s work and in its relationship 
with the General Assembly. According to the Charter, 
the Security Council acts on behalf of all the Member 
States,  and  the  Member  States  are  mandated  to 
accept  and  carry  out  the  decisions  of  the  Security 
Council. Therefore, the wish of a Member State to be 
informed  and,  to  the  extent  possible,  involved  in  the 
decision-making  process  is  legitimate.  Participation 
is  every  Member  State’s  right  and  responsibility.  It 
generates  more  credibility  for  the  Council  and  more 
ownership  of  its  decisions.  Moreover,  the  Council 
would  undoubtedly  benefit  from  receiving  a  wide 
range of ideas and the support of the membership. We 
also  ask  for  the  elimination  of  the  disparity  between 
the  permanent  and  non-permanent  members,  which 
12/28 
16-36369
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.42
remains  a  fundamental  flaw  of  the  Council  in  that 
some  negotiations  and  briefings  have  been  limited  to 
the permanent members alone.
The  Maldives  remains  committed  wholeheartedly 
to the reform process and calls for flexibility and the 
widest possible political acceptance in proceeding with 
the negotiations. We must be united in taking forward 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  and  finding  a 
solution that is acceptable to all. It is our earnest hope 
that consensus is achieved in that vein. The Maldives is a 
firm believer in the principles enshrined in the Charter. 
We are a staunch supporter of democracy, the rule of 
law, equality and justice. We believe in the purposes for 
which the United Nations was founded, and we believe 
that the world needs such an organization today more 
than ever. Yet, for it to fulfil its promise, live up to the 
expectations of its Members and each and every citizen 
they represent, and deal with the complex challenges of 
the world in which we live, the Organization must take 
drastic measures to remain relevant by reforming itself.
Mr.  Sobral  Duarte  (Brazil):  Brazil  associates 
itself  with  the  statements  made  by  the  representative 
of  Germany  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Four  and  the 
representative  of  Saint  Lucia  on  behalf  of  the  L.69 
group, and would like to add the following comments 
in its national capacity.
In this year’s opening session of the general debate, 
President  Michel  Temer  underscored  that  it  is  vital 
to  make  the  structures  of  global  governance  more 
representative, for many of them have become aged and 
disconnected  from  reality  (see  A/71/PV.8).  President 
Temer  also  reaffirmed  the  commitment  of  Brazil  to 
collaborating to overcome the impasse on the reform of 
the Security Council. Brazil was not alone in the general 
debate  in  highlighting  the  urgent  need  for  reform.  A 
significant number of countries also expressed concern 
about the outdated structure of the current composition 
of the Security Council and spoke of the need to adjust 
it  to  contemporary  realities.  Many  pointed  to  the 
inefficiency  and  paralysis  of  the  Council  in  dealing 
with the most pressing challenges to peace and security 
of  current  times.  Many  more  warned  that  every  time 
a  decision  on  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  was 
postponed,  the  very  credibility  and  legitimacy  of  the 
United Nations system were put at risk.
It  is  remarkable  that  the  vast  majority  of  these 
countries, 
statements 
which  are  underrepresented  in  the  most  important 
developing 
comes 
from 
decision-making  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  Year 
after year, a considerable number of African countries 
reiterate that the underrepresentation of their continent 
among  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  members 
of  the  Security  Council  is  a  historical  injustice.  It  is 
past  time  that  the  underrepresentation  of  developing 
countries on the Security Council be redressed.
We cannot neglect the importance of such concerns. 
Brazil concurs with your assessment, Sir, that
“[d]uring  the  seventy-first  session,  we  must  work 
with  each  other  across  and  between  traditional 
groups  to  build  trust  and  flexibility  so  that  we 
can achieve reform that is for the common good” 
(A/71/PV.8, p. 6).
Brazil is confident that you will effectively discharge 
your responsibilities in guiding Member States to reach 
a decision on the reform of the Security Council.
  Member  States  are  already  working  with  each 
other.  As  you  are  aware,  Sir,  members  of  reform-
oriented  groups,  including  from  the  Committee  of 
Ten, the Caribbean Community, the Group of Four, the 
L.69 group and representatives of Nordic and Eastern 
European  countries,  as  well  as  permanent  members 
France  and  the  United  Kingdom  came  together  to 
discuss  how  to  move  the  process  of  Security  Council 
reform  forward.  The  Group  of  Friends  of  Security 
Council  Reform  is  a  coalition  that  shares,  first,  the 
sense  of  urgency  for  enacting  timely  reform,  as 
reflected in the outcome document of the 2005 World 
Summit; secondly, the resolve to engage in real, text-
based negotiations; and, thirdly, the idea that a reformed 
Security Council would encompass expansion in both 
categories of membership.
The  Group  of  Friends  is  yet  another  instance 
of  political  will  aimed  at  effecting  change  in  the 
United  Nations  system.  The  election  process  of 
Secretary-General  designate  António  Guterres  —  the 
most  transparent  and  inclusive  in  the  history  of  the 
Organization — has proved that the membership of the 
United  Nations  can  rise  to  the  challenges  of  a  reform 
process. This quest for greater democratization of the 
United  Nations  system  will  not  be  achieved  unless 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  takes  place.  Former 
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan’s  assessment  that  “no 
reform of the United Nations will be complete without 
the reform of the Security Council” (A/61/1, para. 161) 
rings as true today as when it was first voiced in 2006.
16-36369
13/28
A/71/PV.42 
07/11/2016
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the 
appointment  of 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Romania,  Ambassador  Ion  Jinga,  and  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Tunisia,  Ambassador  Mohamed 
Khaled Khiari, as the Chairs of the intergovernmental 
negotiations. Brazil pledges its full support to them. In 
the intergovernmental negotiations, Brazil expects that 
we will build on progress made during the sixty-ninth 
and seventieth sessions. The framework document and 
its annex, circulated by former President of the General 
Assembly Mr. Sam Kutesa, form a solid basis for text-
based  negotiations.  Last  year’s  exercise  has  showed 
that  convergence  is  possible.  We  expect  that  the  new 
co-Chairs  will  take  forward  the  negotiating  process 
with the energy required to lead the intergovernmental 
negotiating group towards a concrete outcome.
Mr.  Oh  Joon  (Republic  of  Korea):  I  thank  you, 
Mr.  President,  for  convening  today’s  annual  debate 
on  Security  Council  reform.  My  delegation  wishes  to 
extend  a  warm  welcome  to  Ambassador  Ion  Jinga  of 
Romania and Ambassador Mohamed Khaled Khiari of 
Tunisia as Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations. 
I  would  also  like  to  take  the  opportunity  to  thank 
Ambassador Sylvie Lucas of Luxembourg for her hard 
work and contributions in that role in the last year.
At the outset, my delegation aligns itself with the 
statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Italy on behalf of the Uniting for Consensus group.
The numerous protracted conflicts — from Syria to 
Yemen, Libya and Iraq, as well as in the Sahel and the 
Great Lakes region — all point to the need for a Security 
Council that is effective, accountable and transparent. 
The unprecedented scale of humanitarian crises that we 
face today adds to the urgency of the Security Council 
reform. The Republic of Korea believes that reform must 
take place in a way that will allow the Security Council 
to better address the challenges of international peace 
and security, which cannot be accomplished using the 
outdated concepts of permanency and veto. Increasing 
non-permanent membership through periodic elections 
is the only logical way to achieve this aim.
Expanding  the  number  of  elected  members  alone 
will  bring  a  better  balance  to  the  Security  Council, 
thereby  improving  its  work.  Expanding  permanency 
would  not  allow  the  Council  to  effectively  address 
global challenges. It is in this vein that the Republic of 
Korea supports the French-Mexican political statement 
on the suspension of the veto in cases of mass atrocities 
and  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency 
Group’s  code  of  conduct  regarding  Security  Council 
action  against  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  or 
war crimes.
At  the  same  time,  however,  we  recognize  the 
aspirations  of  some  Member  States  to  make  greater 
contributions  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security. To accommodate such aspirations, 
the  Republic  of  Korea,  along  with  other  members 
of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group,  has  advocated 
establishing a new category of longer-term re-electable 
seats, details of which can be negotiated.
The  Member  States  have  long  debated  the  issue 
of  Security  Council  reform.  Personally,  I  have  been 
engaged in the debate in one way or another since the 
1990s.  By  now,  it  seems  to  me  that  the  debate  will 
continue beyond the diplomatic careers of myself and 
many of my colleagues. In a way, this is understandable 
because  it  will  be  the  most  important  reform  in  the 
history  of  the  United  Nations.  I  would  just  like  to 
remind  the  Assembly  of  the  people  on  the  streets 
of  Aleppo  —  and  many  others  in  the  world  who  are 
suffering from protracted conflicts — who look to the 
Security Council for solutions and for action. We owe 
it  to  them  to  deliver  what  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations promises: to save succeeding generations from 
the scourge of war.
I  assure  you,  Mr.  President,  that  the  Republic  of 
Korea stands ready to work with other Member States to 
reform the Security Council for the future of our world.
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  My  delegation 
would like to thank Ambassador Lucas of Luxembourg 
for  steering 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  during  the  seventieth  session  of  the 
General Assembly and for her tireless efforts to move 
this  very  difficult  discussion  forward.  We  would  also 
like to thank our colleagues from Romania and Tunisia 
for taking on the very difficult task of co-chairing the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  look  forward  to 
working with them and pledge our full support.
the  work  of 
the 
It is well known that, in the context of discussing 
the enlargement of the Security Council, Liechtenstein 
favours the creation of a new category of membership of 
that body. We propose the creation of six seats with terms 
of a longer duration that the current non-permanent-seat 
terms — for example, 8 to 10 years — with incumbents 
eligible  for  immediate  re-election.  This  model  would 
enable  States  to  serve  and  practice  permanently  on 
14/28 
16-36369
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.42
the Security Council if they so wish and, of course, if 
they are re-elected consecutively by the United Nations 
membership.  The  creation  of  new  veto  rights,  viewed 
with suspicion by many, including us, would be avoided 
in this model. The model provides flexibility in terms of 
size, which we believe can be very useful in enhancing 
the  political  acceptance  of  the  proposal.  If  there  is  a 
desire among the membership to decide on a relatively 
small  enlargement  in  the  first  phase,  the  model  we 
have proposed can easily lead to a Council of 21 or 22 
members with the creation of six long-term renewable 
seats  and  possibly  an  additional  traditional  two-year 
seat allocated to the Group of Eastern European States.
In  that  case,  the  option  of  further  enlargement 
would become a central element of the review process. 
In any event, a review clause has an essential place in 
our model, as it is both mandatory and comprehensive. 
It  would  be  clearly  decided  that  after  a  determined 
period of time — perhaps 16 or 20 years — the General 
Assembly  would  revisit  the  question  of  Security 
Council reform and that all aspects of reform would be 
on the table in the light of the experience garnered with 
an enlarged Council.
In many ways, the question of the veto is at the heart 
of the deadlock in Security Council reform in general 
and in the enlargement of the Council in particular. It 
is counter-intuitive to many — and we are among the 
many —  to  create  new  veto  rights.  A  majority  of  the 
membership  is  formally  in  favour  of  the  abolition  of 
the  veto,  especially  in  a  situation  where  the  veto  and 
the  threat  of  the  use  of  the  veto  is  one  of  the  biggest 
obstacles for the effective performance of the Security 
Council  on  a  daily  basis,  as  witnessed  most  recently 
on  8  October,  when  the  Council  was  unable  to  adopt 
a resolution on the situation in Aleppo, Syria, due to a 
veto that was cast.
Given  the  situation  in  which  we  find  ourselves 
resulting  from  the  provisions  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  which  means  that  any  change  to  the 
existing  veto  rights  must  be  agreed  to  by  the  five 
permanent members that possess the right, we believe 
that  it  is  crucial  to  work  on  modifications  in  the  use 
of  the  veto.  The  most  significant  initiative  in  that 
respect  is,  in  our  view,  the  code  of  conduct  of  the 
Accountability, Coherence and Transparency Group on 
mass-atrocity crimes that has been frequently referred 
to in the discussion this morning. The code of conduct, 
subscribed  to  by  112  States,  is  a  meaningful  political 
commitment  to  working  in  the  Security  Council  to 
end and prevent atrocity crimes by supporting credible 
proposals  for  that  purpose  and  pledging  not  to  vote 
against such proposals if put forward.
We  call  on  all  States  that  have  not  yet  joined  the 
code of conduct to do so expeditiously. We view support 
for the code of conduct at this point as a prerequisite 
for Security Council membership, and it is an essential 
element  for  us  in  deciding  who  we  will  support  in 
contested  elections.  We  will  also  continue  working 
with partners inside and outside of the Council towards 
the active and effective implementation of the code of 
conduct in the Council’s practice.
Mr. Lamek (France) (spoke in French): Allow me 
at the outset to welcome the nomination of Ambassador 
Ion  Jinga  and  Ambassador  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari 
as  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform.  We  are  confident  that 
we  can  count  on  their  experience  and  outstanding 
personal  qualities  to  make  tangible  progress  towards 
an  ambitious  reform  of  the  Council.  France  assures 
them of its full support in the successful fulfilment of 
their mission.
Discussions on Security Council reform within the 
General  Assembly  have  been  ongoing  for  nearly  two 
decades,  and  it  is  clear  that  we  have  not  been  able  to 
resolve  the  issue.  Nonetheless,  under  the  leadership 
of  Ambassador  E.  Courtenay  Rattray, 
the  work 
accomplished during the General Assembly at its sixty-
ninth session allowed us to obtain initial results, with the 
elaboration of a framework document that could usher 
in comprehensive negotiations, and which received the 
support of a significant majority of Member States. In 
addition, the work accomplished during the seventieth 
session under the leadership of Ms. Sylvie Lucas allowed 
for the identification of elements of convergence on two 
key points of the reform. The recent establishment of 
a  Group  of  Friends  of  Security  Council  Reform  also 
shows the support of a great majority of Member States 
in favour of a real start of negotiations.
France  hopes  that  all  the  work  that  has  been 
accomplished so far will serve as the foundation for the 
next cycle of intergovernmental negotiations that will 
commence during this session. We must now build on 
this basis and begin text-based negotiations as soon as 
possible. We count on the new Chairs to work in that 
direction. France is confident of the ability of Member 
States to come to an agreement on an ambitious reform 
project as they were able to do last year regarding two 
16-36369
15/28
A/71/PV.42 
07/11/2016
historical  agreements,  namely,  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on 
Climate  Change.  This  represents  a  new  opportunity 
to  show  that  the  United  Nations  is  capable  of  deep 
reform.  Such  reform  is  fundamental.  Going  forward, 
the  Council  must  reflect  the  reality  of  today’s  world 
while  strengthening  its  ability  to  fully  shoulder  its 
responsibilities  in  maintaining  international  peace 
and security.
France’s  position  has  been  constant  and  is  well 
known  in  that  regard.  We  wish  to  see  the  Council 
reflect  the  emergence  of  new  powers  that  have  the 
will and the ability to assume permanent membership 
within the Security Council, and which, in accordance 
with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  can  make  a 
significant contribution to the work of the Council. In 
that  regard,  as  Member  States  know,  France  supports 
the candidacies of Germany, Brazil, India and Japan for 
permanent  membership  within  the  Security  Council, 
and the increased representation of African countries, 
in both the permanent and non-permanent categories.
It is in the same spirit of responsibility that France 
has proposed that the five permanent members of the 
Council voluntarily and collectively suspend their use 
of the veto in cases of mass atrocities. That voluntary 
step  does  not  require  a  revision  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations; it requires a political commitment. As 
for France, it has made that commitment at the highest 
level  through  the  President  of  the  Republic,  who 
announced it during the general debate of the seventieth 
session  (see  A/70/PV.13).  This  was  an  extremely 
important decision for international security, for peace 
and for renewed and relegitimized multilateralism.
initiative 
is 
supported  by  almost  100  countries.  In  the  same  vein, 
the  code  of  conduct  prepared  by  the  Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  Group,  which  France 
supports,  has  also  garnered  broad  support.  Fuelled 
by  that  momentum,  we  hope  that  we  will  be  able  to 
convince  other  Member  States  to  join  us.  It  is  in  the 
shared interest of all Member States that the Council be 
able to fulfil its mandate and fully perform its role, in 
particular with respect to mass-atrocity situations.
joint  French-Mexican 
Today, 
the 
towards  strengthening 
The  initiatives  on  limiting  the  right  of  the  veto, 
fairness 
which  point 
and  accountability  of 
the  Security  Council,  are 
complementary  to  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Council for which France will continue to advocate. We 
the 
must all collectively shoulder our full responsibility in 
order to move beyond the status quo in the interest of 
the  Organization.  The  difficulty  of  such  reform  does 
not diminish the pressing need for it.
Mr.  Moustafa  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for 
convening  this  meeting  on  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  other  matters  related  to  the 
Security Council, and for the importance that you attach 
to  the  expansion  of  the  membership  of  the  Council, 
which you reaffirmed in your opening statement today.
I  would  like  to  commend  the  efforts  of  the 
successive Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform.  I  also  commend  the 
efforts  made  during 
to  achieve 
progress  despite  all  the  difficulties  and  challenges.  I 
especially  welcome  your  decision,  Mr.  President,  to 
appoint  Mr.  Ion  Jinga,  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  Romania,  and  Mr.  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari,  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Tunisia,  as  the  new 
co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations. This 
is a step that reflects your awareness, Sir, of the need 
to  build  the  widest  possible  consensus  through  the 
negotiations process and to enhance trust and build the 
membership’s  confidence.  In  this  regard,  we  reaffirm 
our  full  support  of  the  two  Chairs  and  reiterate  our 
confidence that they will continue to build consensus 
among groups and Member States. We wish them every 
success in their assignment.
the  past  years 
Egypt is firmly convinced that the United Nations 
must  undergo  comprehensive  reform,  particularly 
of  the  Security  Council,  with  a  view  to  supporting 
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  to  enabling  the  Organization  to 
respond  to  contemporary  and  emerging  international 
challenges. We attach great importance to a true reform 
of  the  Security  Council  through  a  transparent  and 
comprehensive process that is fully owned by the entire 
membership with a view to reaching a comprehensive 
and agreed-upon solution that enjoys the widest political 
acceptance  and  includes  the  five  main  interlinked 
pillars of negotiations set forth in decision 62/557. We 
are confident that these clear parameters should be the 
point of reference for the work of the two new Chairs of 
the intergovernmental negotiations.
We reaffirm that Egypt is firmly committed to the 
Common African Position as set forth in the Ezulwini 
16/28 
16-36369
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.42
Consensus and the Sirte Declaration, which are the only 
points of reference to have been reaffirmed in successive 
African summits, and which include a comprehensive 
vision on Security Council reform, including the matter 
of the veto. We are satisfied by the increased support for 
the Common African Position, which we consider to be 
clear evidence that the world is aware of the importance 
of  redressing  the  historic  injustice  committed  against 
the African continent. The African continent still lacks 
its  well-deserved  permanent  representation  in  the 
Council  and  equitable  representation  in  the  elected-
member category that would enable Africa to advance 
its views on the Council’s work in general and on the 
African  items  on  the  Council’s  agenda  in  particular, 
keeping  in  mind  that  these  items  occupy  most  of  the 
Council’s agenda, which in turn affirms the legitimacy 
of the continent’s demands.
Mrs.  Ataeva  (Turkmenistan),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
This  year,  Egypt  has  been  honoured  to  be  a 
member  of  the  Security  Council,  holding  one  of  the 
three non-permanent seats allocated to Africa. We are 
currently  the  only  Arab  member  of  the  Council  and 
have  acquired  much  experience  throughout  this  year. 
This experience has confirmed some of our long-held 
convictions,  but  we  have  also  learned  some  lessons, 
which we would like to share with the Assembly.
First,  no  real  Security  Council  reform  is  possible 
without addressing the structural imbalance represented 
by the monopoly of the permanent five on the work of 
Council, due to their exclusive right to the use of the veto. 
This reaffirms the soundness of the Common African 
Position, which calls on principle for the elimination of 
the veto. However, until the veto is eliminated, all new 
permanent members of the Council should enjoy all the 
prerogatives and privileges of permanent membership.
Secondly,  any  proposal  on  partial  reform  of  the 
Security Council, for example, on the expansion of the 
permanent category without a comprehensive reform of 
the veto, would not lead to true and fair reform. Actually, 
it  would  add  to  the  current  structural  imbalance  that 
plagues the Council. Indeed, such a reform would serve 
the interests of just a handful of Member States.
Thirdly,  when  the  permanent  members  obtained 
the  special  privilege  of  the  veto,  stemming  from  the 
historical situation at the time of the establishment of 
the United Nations, the effectiveness of other members 
in the Council depended on their ability to defend the 
interests of their geographical groups, which reaffirms 
that  the  reform  should  be  based  on  the  principles 
of  democracy,  transparency  and  accountability.  It 
also  proves  once  again  the  soundness  of  the  African 
Common  Position,  as 
the  point  of 
regional  representation  as  the  main  key  issue  in  the 
reform process.
it  reaffirms 
In  conclusion,  in  the  wake  of  various  attempts  to 
produce documents and papers in the previous sessions, 
I  hope  that  the  current  efforts  will  focus  on  creating 
a  common  will  to  achieve  real  progress  and  develop 
a  vision  that  would  help  us  reach  a  wider  consensus 
among States and groups of States in order to reach a 
principles-based solution that enjoys the widest degree of 
acceptance and enhances the confidence of all Member 
States  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  I  would 
like to reaffirm that Egypt is committed to working with 
all Member States to adopt a comprehensive reform that 
would enable the Security Council to effectively fulfil 
its role of maintaining international peace and security.
Ms.  Lodhi  (Pakistan):  Madam  President,  we 
are  pleased  to  see  you  presiding  over  the  General 
Assembly as we consider the vital question of equitable 
representation  and  an  increase  in  membership  of 
the  Security  Council.  Pakistan  welcomes  the  wise 
decision  to  appoint  two  of  our  able  colleagues,  the 
Ambassadors of Tunisia and Romania, to co-facilitate 
the intergovernmental negotiations this year. I wish to 
convey  to  them  our  profound  gratitude  for  accepting 
this responsibility. I also assure them, as well as you, 
Madam, of my delegation’s support.
Pakistan  fully  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered  earlier  today  by  Ambassador  Cardi  of  Italy 
on behalf of the Uniting for Consensus (UfC) group.
The  deadlock  on  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
has persisted for more than two decades now. Despite 
setting  a  clear  goal  in  decision  62/557  to  seek  a 
solution that could garner the widest possible political 
acceptance, the General Assembly remains as far from 
reaching this goal as ever. But this should not come as a 
surprise. Without a bridge, people on parallel banks of 
a river continue to remain separated. Here at the United 
Nations,  such  bridges  are  built  by  accommodation 
and 
flexibility  and  cemented  by  compromise. 
Unfortunately,  these  essential  ingredients  have  been 
conspicuous  in  their  absence  in  our  negotiations  on 
Security Council reform.
16-36369
17/28
A/71/PV.42 
07/11/2016
However, not everyone has been short on flexibility. 
The  UfC  group  has  twice  revised  its  proposal  in  a 
genuine  spirit  of  compromise.  As  evident  from  the 
UfC statement delivered earlier today by Ambassador 
Cardi, our group stands ready to engage constructively 
in  this  process.  But  it  takes  more  than  one  hand  to 
clap. The hand that refuses to clap represents a handful 
of  countries  that  have  sought  to  promote  their  self-
arrogated right to privileged and unequal status. This 
selfish  pursuit  of  national  ambition  is  the  real  reason 
for  our  failure  to  make  the  Security  Council  more 
democratic,  more  accountable,  more  transparent  and 
more effective.
We cannot change the past, but we can determine the 
future if the right lessons are learned from past efforts 
made at reform. In the intergovernmental negotiations 
process,  quick  fixes  and  procedural  manoeuvres  have 
never  yielded  positive  results.  A  genuine  agreement 
on  substance  is  required  to  make  progress  on  issues 
as  consequential  as  reform  of  the  Security  Council  a 
reality.  In  protracted  negotiations  it  is  impossible  to 
find solutions at the extreme ends of political positions. 
In  short,  compromises  leading  to  convergence  on 
substance  are  the  only  way  forward.  The  past  three 
sessions  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  testify 
to this important lesson.
The  intergovernmental  negotiations  are  the  only 
forum  that  can  achieve  progress  towards  our  shared 
goal of a reformed Security Council. The negotiations’ 
nature must be respected if we wish for them to serve 
their purpose. It is a membership-driven process based 
on  the  proposals  and  positions  of  Member  States  and 
negotiating  groups.  The  process  needs  to  be  open, 
transparent, predictable and inclusive. It must maintain 
an ambience of mutual respect, enabling Member States 
to engage constructively.
Let  me  now  outline  my  delegation’s  position 
on  Security  Council  reform.  We  support  expansion 
of  the  Security  Council  in  the  category  of  elected 
non-permanent  seats  on 
the  basis  of  equitable 
geographic  distribution  and  a  system  of  fair  rotation. 
More  elected  members  will  enhance 
regional 
representation  and  ownership,  adding  legitimacy  to 
the Council. We want a more democratic, accountable, 
transparent and effective Security Council that reflects 
the  interests  and  aspirations  of  all  States  Members 
of  the  United  Nations.  In  pursuit  of  these  universally 
agreed principles, Pakistan firmly opposes the creation 
of new permanent seats. However, we have respect and 
reverence  for  the  Common  African  Position,  which 
voices  the  demand  of  an  entire  continent.  As  such,  it 
is inherently different from the demand for permanent 
seats in pursuit of narrow national ambitions.
New  permanent  seats  are  the  antithesis  of  the 
principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. 
Addition of more such seats to the Council will serve 
only to satisfy the hunger for power and privilege of a 
few without addressing the actual question of equitable 
representation on the Security Council. In the absence 
of  periodic  elections  and  rotation,  new  permanent 
members  would  not  be  accountable  to  the  wider 
membership.  The  Council’s  working  methods  would 
become  more  opaque  rather  than  more  transparent. 
And  if  today  the  Council  remains  paralysed  and 
ineffective due to clashing political interests among the 
permanent  five,  we  can  well  imagine  how  indecisive 
and gridlocked it would become with twice the number 
of permanent members.
if  one  were 
There  is  no  good  rationale  or  logic  for  more 
permanent  seats.  Besides,  even 
to 
contemplate additional permanent seats on the basis of 
regional representation, can we ever achieve equitable 
distribution  in  the  category  of  permanent  seats? 
Despite the logic of these arguments, the much-needed 
expansion  of  the  Council  has  been  held  hostage  for 
decades to an illogical demand.
Nevertheless, we are again ready to engage on those 
issues  in  this  year’s  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
At  the  most  recent  session  of  the  negotiations,  the 
membership  discussed  a  paper  by  the  Chair  on  the 
two  key  issues  of  reform:  working  methods  and  the 
relationship  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly.  In  our  view,  the  paper  reflected 
a  general  convergence  on  some  important  principles. 
It  is  imperative  that  these  principles  continue  to  be 
reinforced — and not contradicted — when proposals 
and ideas are shared on other key issues of reform.
Before  I  conclude,  let  me  once  again  stress  the 
importance  of  embracing  flexibility  and  rejecting 
rigid  approaches.  The  first  expansion  of  the  Security 
Council was completed in a span of almost three years. 
All  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  benefited 
equally  at  that  time,  as  the  number  of  the  Council’s 
non-permanent seats were increased from 6 to 10. But 
the current stalemate of over 24 years has not benefited 
any Member State that aspires to serve in the Council. 
It seems that no Member State can have its equal and 
18/28 
16-36369
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.42
fair share because some among us just want it all. That 
is not just unfortunate; it represents a selfish disregard 
of others.
Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  to  spare 
no effort in this session to give priority to and expedite 
the reform process.
Mr.  Matjila  (South  Africa):  I  thank  you,  Madam 
President, for giving my delegation the opportunity to 
express our views on the important agenda item before 
the General Assembly.
South  Africa  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Sierra 
Leone  and  Saint  Lucia,  who  spoke  on  behalf  of  the 
African  Union  member  States  and  the  L.69  group  of 
countries,  respectively.  I  wish  to  make  the  following 
additional remarks in my national capacity.
In  participating  in  today’s  debate,  South  Africa 
remains mindful of the urgent need for Security Council 
reform. We encourage all Member States and groups to 
work hard to move the process forward on the basis of 
the gains made in previous sessions. We commend the 
President for convening this debate early in the seventy-
first  session.  I  would  also  congratulate  Ambassador 
Ion Jinga, Permanent Representative of Romania, and 
Ambassador  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Tunisia,  on  their  appointments  as 
co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  and 
assure them of South Africa’s commitment to working 
with them to advance the comprehensive reform of the 
Security Council.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  confers  on 
the  Security  Council  the  primary  responsibility  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
Through  its  Charter  mandate,  the  Council  is  given 
important and far-reaching powers to act on behalf of 
the  broader  membership  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is 
therefore crucial that the Security Council be reformed 
to  reflect  the  realities  of  the  twenty-first  century  in 
order to make the Council more democratic, legitimate, 
representative,  responsive  and 
in 
its 
working methods and decision-making processes.
transparent 
In 1945, the United Nations had 51 Member States; 
today  it  has  193.  At  that  time,  in  1945,  there  were 
only four African States: Egypt, Ethiopia, Liberia and 
the  Union  of  South  Africa.  Africa  today  now  has  54 
Member  States.  The  historical  injustice  against  the 
African  continent  as  reflected  in  the  structure  of  the 
Security Council should finally be corrected. We believe 
that  the  Organization  would  benefit  greatly  from  our 
continent’s  full  participation  in  the  Security  Council. 
Therefore, my delegation calls on the President and the 
South Africa is of the view that the main obstacle to 
achieving any movement in our ceaseless discussions is 
that the process itself is flawed. In spite of its name, the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  are  not  negotiations. 
Rather, they are debates comprising endless repetition 
of  decades-old  positions  from  groups  and  States. 
That is why South Africa and so many other Member 
States have called for the commencement of text-based 
negotiations.  We  support  expansion  of  the  Council  in 
both the permanent and non-permanent categories, and 
we express the need for reform now.
Like many other States, South Africa was hopeful 
that the seventieth session would build on the significant 
achievements  of  the  sixty-ninth.  We  were  bitterly 
disappointed  that  the  process  stalled  once  again. 
Fortunately, we are at the beginning of a new session and 
therefore wish once again to make our position on the 
process clear. South Africa reiterates its call for efforts 
to build on the progress achieved in previous sessions, 
especially  the  sixty-ninth  session  and  on  the  basis  of 
decisions 62/557 and 69/560, as well as the framework 
document  and  its  annex  circulated  by  the  President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session, on 
31 July 2015. To achieve such progress, we propose that 
the intergovernmental negotiations of the seventy-first 
session be primarily focused on developing a road map 
with a clear implementable framework.
To  achieve  that,  we  further  propose  that  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  adopt  a  different 
format  this  year,  replacing  the  debate  format  that  has 
become  our  routine  with  vigorous  engagement  on  the 
framework document and how to move it forward. As 
we also believe that the process will benefit from bloc 
meetings,  we  propose  that  the  Chairs  schedule  a  few 
concurrent  days  per  element  to  allow  for  interactive 
exchange and negotiations among Member States. 
We  have  seen  over  the  past  years  that  one-day 
meetings with long lapses of time between them only 
result in general statements repeated ad nauseam, thus 
threatening to turn the process into an endless working 
group  that  never  achieves  reform.  We  also  wish  to 
call for the use of the full calendar of the session. We 
should therefore start as soon as possible and continue 
for as long as possible and not let several months go by 
without scheduling any related activities, as happened 
16-36369
19/28
A/71/PV.42 
07/11/2016
in previous sessions. South Africa does not believe that 
the adoption of such a practical process will undermine 
the principles of all-inclusiveness and transparency to 
which we are fully committed.
In conclusion, my delegation is well aware that the 
road ahead is going to be challenging, but the Assembly 
can rest assured that South Africa, working with other 
like-minded  Member  States,  intends  to  walk  it  to  its 
successful  conclusion.  We  would  like  to  reassure 
Member  States  of  our  commitment  to  working  with 
the  President  and  the  Chairs  to  move  the  process  of 
the reform of the Security Council forward during the 
seventy-first session.
Mr. Bessho (Japan): I would like to join the many 
others who have expressed sincere appreciation for the 
President’s  convening  today’s  important  meeting  and 
welcome  the  appointment  of  Ambassador  Mohamed 
Khaled Khiari of Tunisia and Ambassador Ion Jinga of 
Romania  as  the  new  Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations. As the President of the General Assembly 
rightly  pointed  out  when  taking  the  solemn  oath  of 
office  in  this  Hall  on  13  September,  “the  question  is 
not whether reform is necessary, but how and in what 
form it will be achieved” (A/70/PV.118, p. 5). We fully 
support this idea. 
I also fully align myself with the statement made by 
Ambassador Harald Braun, Permanent Representative 
of Germany, on behalf of the Group of Four. 
I  cannot  stress  enough  how  important  it  is  to 
commence  text-based  negotiations  without  further 
delay,  taking  into  account  that  an  overwhelming 
majority  supports  enlargement  in  both  the  permanent 
and non-permanent categories. I am glad to hear similar 
views from many other Member States. I also greatly 
welcome the establishment of the Group of Friends of 
Security  Council  Reform.  The  voices  of  this  group, 
formed  around  shared  opinions,  should  be  taken  into 
consideration. 
Today I would like to respectfully ask the President 
of the General Assembly to give the co-Chairs a clear 
mandate to share a road map for text-based negotiations. 
With a road map aimed at a specific outcome, Member 
States  can  work  meaningfully  towards  a  significant 
outcome 
the  General 
Assembly.  We  all  know  very  well  the  positions  and 
proposals  of  Member  States,  as  they  are  all  reflected 
in the framework document and its annex, which rolled 
over  to  the  current  session.  During  the  last  session, 
this  session  of 
throughout 
we  also  heard,  once  again,  detailed  statements  from 
Member  States  on  each  of  the  five  key  issues.  What 
we have to do now is to start preparing a concise and 
operational negotiation text, preferably in the form of a 
draft resolution, and to immediately launch negotiations 
within a specific time frame. 
I  hope  that  we  will  be  able  to  enter  into  serious 
text-based negotiations and not into another exhausting 
round  of  speeches.  Let  us  not  get  ourselves  bogged 
down in procedural discussions any longer. We are too 
familiar with that approach and have perfected the art 
of  delay.  Instead,  let  us  engage  with  one  another  on 
substance  in  the  coming  text-based  negotiations.  It  is 
time  for  concrete  action  to  back  our  many  words  of 
reform. 
Before closing, let me quote Mr. Kofi Annan, whose 
words  were  taken  up  by  Secretary-General-designate 
António Guterres at the informal dialogue on 12 April: 
“No  reform  of  the  United  Nations  will  be  complete 
without  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council”  (A/61/1, 
para. 161).
Mr.  Winid  (Poland):  Let  me  thank  the  President 
for convening today’s important annual debate. 
At  the  outset,  Poland  would  like  to  warmly 
welcome  the  nomination  of  our  good  friends,  the 
Permanent Representatives of Romania and Tunisia, as 
the  new  Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform.  This  is  the  first  time 
that the intergovernmental negotiations will be led by 
two  co-Chairs.  We  therefore  hope  that  not  only  our 
co-Chairs,  but  also  all  Member  States,  will  redouble 
their  efforts  to  bring  about  a  positive  outcome  to  our 
negotiations. 
I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  two 
previous Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations, 
Ambassador  E.  Courtenay  Rattray  of  Jamaica  and 
Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas  of  Luxembourg,  for  their 
significant  work  and  determination  to  bridge  the 
divisions that remain among Member States. 
As  we  will  soon  resume  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations, let me reflect on how we shall approach 
the task ahead of us. First of all, we shall continue our 
dialogue  in  good  faith  but  we  also  shall  have  faith  in 
ourselves.  Only  a  year  ago  we  managed  to  finalize 
three  fundamental  processes  —  on  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, on financing for development and 
20/28 
16-36369
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.42
on  climate  change  —  which  will  guide  our  work  for 
the coming decades. I truly believe that we should be 
able to add to those accomplishments a major political 
agreement on the future shape of the Security Council.
With  the  growing  complexity  of  today’s  security 
landscape and the multiplying challenges and threats, 
if  we  are  to  find  good  and  lasting  solutions,  we  need 
to  sit  together,  talk  and  carefully  listen  —  especially 
listen  —  to  each  other.  Since  the  security  issues  that 
we  need  to  address  are  often  interconnected  —  they 
are  not  merely  intra-State;  rather,  they  reach  across 
States’  borders,  regions  and  continents  —  it  does 
matter  who  sits  on  the  Security  Council  and  receives 
our  mandate  to  act  on  behalf  of  the  entire  United 
Nations membership. It does matter whether the voices 
of African States, Arab States, small developing States 
or Eastern European States — my regional group — are 
heard and are reflected in the Council’s decisions to a 
greater extent than they are today.
Secondly,  we  shall  build  on  our  work  on  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  that  was  carried  out 
in  the  past,  especially  in  the  previous  two  rounds  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  learned  a 
lot  about  our  positions,  defined  areas  of  convergence 
and identified the main points of division. Let us now 
engage in a truly meaningful process of give and take.
Last  but  not  least,  the  result  of  the  negotiations 
must be backed by all Member States. In our opinion, 
only  a  consensus  can  guarantee  that  we  will  be  able 
to  fully  implement  an  agreement  once  negotiations 
are concluded.
Poland remains committed to the idea of having a 
more transparent, more equitable and effective Security 
Council. We will do our best to fully and constructively 
engage  in  Member  States’  dialogue  during  the  next 
round  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  My 
country  will  give  unwavering  support  to  all  efforts 
leading  to  the  much-needed  agreement  on  Security 
Council reform.
the 
Mr.  Rivero  Rosario  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
We welcome the convening of this debate, and in that 
connection we recognize the efforts of the Permanent 
Representatives  of  Luxembourg  and  Jamaica  and 
their  predecessors  in  leading  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform. We welcome 
the  appointment  of  the  Permanent  Representatives 
of  Romania  and  Tunisia  as  co-Chairs  of 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  this  most  pressing 
issue.  We  pledge  our  full  cooperation  so  that  these 
negotiations may be successful.
Cuba  supports  the  genuine  and  profound  reform 
of the Security Council into an effective, transparent, 
representative  and  democratic  body.  We  support 
renewed and sustained efforts to fast-track negotiations 
on Security Council reform, which is an issue that has 
been on the General Assembly agenda for more than 20 
years. We must continue to advocate for the adaptation 
of  the  Security  Council  in  line  with  developments  in 
international  relations  and  within  the  United  Nations 
itself over the past seven decades.
In accordance with Article 24 of the Charter of the 
United Nations, the Council is responsible for acting on 
behalf  of  Member  States.  However,  the  reality  is  that 
the 193 States Members of the United Nations do not 
feel represented by the decisions of the Council, making 
it  difficult  to  maintain  the  status  quo  established  in 
1945.  Cuba  reiterates  that  the  work  of  the  Council  is 
the collective responsibility of all Member States, and 
that they should be guaranteed real participation in the 
work  and  decision-making  processes  that  this  body 
undertakes. For this reason, we must fully carry out the 
mandate  bestowed  by  the  General  Assembly  through 
various decisions, including the most recent, of 21 July, 
on  the  question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council and 
other matters related to the Security Council.
The rounds of discussions that have taken place thus 
far and the various positions that have been expressed 
confirm,  in  our  opinion,  that  the  vast  majority  of 
Member States supports, at the very least, the expansion 
of Security Council membership in its two categories of 
permanent and non-permanent members. Moreover, we 
must  eliminate  the  veto,  reform  the  working  methods 
,    potentially  leading  to  the  gradual  approval  of  the 
Council’s rules of procedure so that they are no longer 
provisional,  and  abide  by  the  respective  mandates  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.
Cuba  is  prepared  to  undertake  the  negotiations 
required  for  this  process  without  further  delay.  We 
agree with the majority of delegations that all proposals 
made  during  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  must 
be taken into account. This process must be inclusive 
and  transparent.  Although  Cuba’s  position  is  well 
16-36369
21/28
A/71/PV.42 
07/11/2016
known,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the  following  for  the 
benefit of the new round of discussions.
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
matters related to the Security Council.
We  are  in  favour  of  a  substantial  increase  in  the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  to  around  25  or 
26 States. Such expansion must take place within both 
categories  of  members  and  must  include  developing 
countries.  The  fundamental  objective  should  be  to 
overcome  the  unjustifiable  lack  of  representation  of 
developing countries in the Security Council. The new 
members — both permanent and non-permanent — of 
a wider Council must have the exact same duties and 
prerogatives as the current members of the body, including 
the veto if it cannot be eliminated. Cuba would not be 
opposed  to  the  possibility  of  immediately  re-electing 
non-permanent  members.  Cuba  is  not  in  favour  of 
creating new member categories, as this would further 
deepen existing differences and foster division within 
this body. As for the veto, Cuba’s position is well known 
with  regard  to  this  anti-democratic  and  anachronistic 
privilege. It is our firm conviction that the veto should 
be eliminated.
The  reform  of  the  Council  must  include,  as  a 
priority,  reform  of  its  working  methods.  We  advocate 
for  a  transparent  Security  Council  in  which  closed 
consultations are the exception and not the rule. We are 
in favour of a Council that keeps to the issues that are 
within its domain and does not encroach on the preserves 
of other principal bodies of the United Nations.
I  reiterate  that  Cuba  does  not  hope  to  achieve  an 
immediate  agreement:  we  understand  perfectly  the 
complexities and sensitivities of this process which will 
require time, effort and, above all, a spirit of flexibility 
during  negotiations.  Nevertheless,  we  cannot  accept 
as  valid  the  structure  and  procedures  of  a  Security 
Council that was established in 1945 for a world order 
that no longer exists, especially in the face of threats 
and  challenges  that  would  have  been  unimaginable 
back  when  the  Organization  was  created.  That  would 
be  a  total  disregard  of  the  dramatic  developments  in 
international  relations  and  within  the  United  Nations 
itself  throughout  the  past  70  years.  Cuba  is  ready  to 
successfully overcome this challenge.
Mr.  Tenya  Hasegawa  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
My  delegation  welcomes  this  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly to continue discussing one of the fundamental 
issues  linked  to  reforming  the  Organization  —  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
As well as commending the work carried out by the 
Permanent Representative of Luxembourg, Ambassador 
Sylvie Lucas, during the past cycle of intergovernmental 
negotiations,  we  welcome  the  appointment  of  the 
Permanent  Representive  of  Romania,  Ion  Jinga,  and 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Tunisia,  Mohamed 
Khaled Khiari, as co-Chairs of the same process during 
this current session. They can count on the full support 
of my delegation.
The  overwhelming  majority  of 
those  present 
agree on the necessity and importance of adapting the 
structure of our Organization following the tremendous 
changes that the international system has experienced 
in  past  decades,  such  as  the  end  of  the  cold  war  and 
the significant increase in the number of States, to cite 
just  two  examples.  In  this  regard,  the  intensification 
of our efforts is especially important in order to make 
the  desired  reform  of  such  a  fundamental  body  of 
the  United  Nations  as  the  Security  Council  a  reality. 
It  must  be  made  more  democratic,  representative  and 
transparent: a delicate responsibility that falls without 
exception  on  each  and  every  one  of  us.  Carrying 
out  this  task  becomes  even  more  imperative  in  the 
current  climate,  where  delicate  situations  such  as  in 
the one in the Middle East, and particularly the grave 
conflict in Syria, require effective responses from the 
Security Council.
Peru 
its 
again 
reiterates  once 
conviction 
that  in  order  to  bring  the  Security  Council  into 
step  with  current  realities,  it  is  indispensable  to 
incorporate  new  members  —  permanent  as  well  as 
non-permanent — in order to promote fairer and more 
equitable regional representation. My delegation wishes 
to  underscore  that  the  enlargement  should  be  carried 
out with moderation in order to remedy the imbalance 
in  the  composition  of  the  Council,  while  at  the  same 
time safeguarding its effectiveness. In that regard, we 
believe it essential to stress the need for increasing the 
seats reserved for our regions, which should no longer 
shunted aside.
Because  of 
the  different  approaches 
the 
integration  of  new  permanent  members,  my  country 
proposes  that,  as  an  interim  measure  until  consensus 
is reached, there should be an intermediate category in 
which non-permanent members of the Security Council 
to 
22/28 
16-36369
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.42
could serve terms of over two years and be indefinitely 
re-elected to serve consecutive terms.
I  would  also  like  to  stress  the  issue  of  the  veto. 
Peru  has  consistently  supported  initiatives  to  limit 
its use and to ban its use in cases of genocide, crimes 
against  humanity  and  flagrant  violations  of  human 
rights or international humanitarian law. In that regard, 
we  support  the  French  and  Mexican  initiative  on  that 
issue as well as the code of conduct drawn up by the 
Accountability, Coherence and Transparency Group, to 
which my country belongs.
Experience  teaches  us  that  we  will  not  make  real 
progress  in  the  negotiations  until  we  make  a  greater 
effort  to  be  flexible,  in  the  interest  of  the  common 
good.  When  we  adopt  this  compromise  approach, 
we  will  have  to  make  concessions  and  soften  our 
positions.  Then,  finally,  we  shall  end  up  with  a  more 
harmonious,  legitimate  and  balanced  system  that  will 
benefit everyone. After so many years spent immersed 
in deliberation and discussion on this subject, we think 
that the time has come to act.
Mr.  Begeç  (Turkey):  We  align  ourselves  with  the 
statement  delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of Italy on behalf of the Uniting for Consensus (UfC) 
group.  The  following  are  additional  remarks  in  my 
national capacity.
We  appreciate  the  engagement  of  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  in  the  process  and  warmly 
welcome  Ambassadors  Jinga  and  Khiari  in  their  new 
capacities as co-Chairs. We look forward to cooperating 
closely  with  them.  We  also  express  our  gratitude  to 
the  former  Chair,  Ambassador  Lucas,  for  her  efforts 
to  find  elements  of  convergence,  which  is  the  correct 
approach  in  attempting  to  reach  consensus  on  this 
important matter.
The  need 
reform 
for  Security  Council 
is 
unmistakable. While we diplomats have been discussing 
this matter for the past couple of decades, the Council’s 
inaction  has  been  costing  human  lives.  That  is  the 
disturbing  reality  that  we  sometimes  overlook  when 
concentrating on technical details.
Permanent membership and the veto mechanism are 
the obvious targets for reform. It is therefore difficult to 
understand why Member States, rather than rectifying 
the  situation,  are  seeking  to  consolidate  permanent 
membership  and  the  veto  mechanism.  Increasing  the 
number  of  permanent  members  and  the  ratio  of  those 
with veto power to those without it will simply make 
matters  worse.  Additionally,  we  do  not  know  how 
introducing  new  permanent  members  or  veto  powers 
would  enhance  the  accountability  of  the  Council. 
Likewise, we do not know what mechanism would be 
used for assessing the performances of those countries 
after they become Council members.
We are advocating for a meaningful and principled 
reform  that  would  bring  about  a  more  democratic, 
representative,  effective,  transparent  and,  above  all, 
accountable  Council.  We  believe  that  this  only  be 
achieved  can  by  increasing  the  number  of  elected 
members of the Council. For those aspiring to a longer 
term  in  service  of  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security, we, the UfC Group, propose longer-
term  seats  with  the  possibility  of  re-election.  We  are 
pleased  to  see  that  there  is  increasing  support  for  the 
intermediate approach as a compromise solution.
Ideally,  the  veto  should  be  abolished.  There  is 
no  justifiable  explanation  as  to  why  certain  Council 
members should have that right and others not. In that 
respect,  we  support  the  initiatives  to  limit  the  use  of 
a  negative  vote  in  cases  of  mass  atrocities.  A  more 
equitable representation of the regional groups and a fair 
system  of  rotation,  including  enhanced  opportunities 
for  underrepresented  groups,  is  a  must  in  a  reformed 
Council. The working methods and the relationship with 
the General Assembly are no less important matters, as 
they determine the daily dynamics of the system.
Security  Council  reform  is  a  matter  of  global 
importance,  which  should  naturally  go  beyond  the 
national  aspirations  and  interests  of  any  individual 
State. Needless to say, an issue that has a direct impact 
on the lives of current and future generations requires 
compromise and a consensual process.
Mr. Kamau (Kenya): My delegation attaches great 
importance to agenda item 122, “Question of equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership 
of  the  Security  Council  and  other  matters  related  to 
the Council”.
Let  me  begin  by  commending  the  President  for 
his  dedication  and  commitment  to  advancing  the 
negotiations  on  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council. 
I  congratulate  Ambassador  Ion  Jinga,  Permanent 
Representative of Romania, and Ambassador Mohamed 
Khaled Khiari, Permanent Representative of Tunisia, on 
their appointment as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental 
16-36369
23/28
A/71/PV.42 
07/11/2016
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  I  assure  the 
co-Chairs of my delegation’s support and cooperation.
My delegation fully aligns itself with the statement 
delivered earlier by the representative of Sierra Leone 
on behalf of the African Union member States.
Kenya reaffirms its full support and commitment 
to the common African position and Africa’s legitimate 
claim,  as  embodied  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and 
the  Sirte  Declaration.  My  delegation  also  supports 
the  statement  of  the  Group  of  African  States  and 
recognizes  that  it  has  comprehensively  addressed  the 
substantive issues on Security Council reform that are 
of the greatest concern to Africa and the wider United 
Nations  membership,  in  general.  In  the  interests  of 
brevity  and  to  avoid  repetition,  my  delegation  would 
like to take this opportunity to make some remarks.
First  of  all,  I  believe  I  speak  for  many  African 
States  and  all  Member  States  that  believe  that  the 
whole  United  Nations  system  must  be  reformed  to 
adapt to the changing global realities and to enhance its 
effectiveness  in  solving  present,  emerging  and  future 
threats. Making the United Nations fit for purpose and 
capable  of  facing  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first 
century is now a matter of urgent importance.
Secondly,  as  the  principal  organ  responsible  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
the Security Council exemplifies a structure that is not 
compatible with the current geopolitical realities of the 
world. It is outdated, outmoded and not fit for the purpose 
of promoting and sustaining peace and security in our 
world.  The  status  quo  is  dangerous  —  it  undermines 
peace and it causes and prolongs death and suffering.
Thirdly, the Council’s small size, exclusive nature 
and dysfunctional character is based on mid-twentieth- 
century  geopolitics  and  prejudices.  Its  relationship 
with  the  General  Assembly,  its  working  methods  and 
its  undemocratic  nature  are  out  of  step  with  today’s 
challenges and demands.
Fourthly,  Kenya  believes  that  it  is  important  for 
the  United  Nations  to  meet  contemporary  standards 
of  modern  civilization  and  human  rights,  including 
legitimacy  based  upon  accountability  and  democratic 
decision-making  procedures  and  representation.  The 
fundamental  challenge  to  the  Security  Council  is 
that  some  regions  of  the  world  do  not  have  adequate 
or  effective  representation  on  the  Council,  and  a 
considerable  portion  of  the  United  Nations  global 
constituency is therefore unrepresented and unheard in 
the administration of global affairs. This is the recipe 
that is responsible for the gridlock and dysfunction in 
the Security Council.
My  delegation  is  convinced  that  it  is  imperative 
that  the  Council  be  reformed  to  enable  it  to  meet 
contemporary  standards  and  the  demands  of  the 
twenty-first century. It is unacceptable that Africa, on 
which a large part of the security agenda of the United 
Nations is concentrated, and which is also the focus of 
considerable work by United Nations peacebuilding and 
peacekeeping personnel, has no determinative voice in 
the Council.
It is therefore incumbent upon us, the United Nations 
membership,  to  collectively  ensure  that  the  Security 
Council reform process moves forward on the five key 
issues  specified  in  decision  62/557,  a  decision  that  is 
supported  by  the  African  Union  and  the  Government 
of  Kenya.  We  believe  that  the  progress  reflected  in 
decision  69/560  provides  a  valuable  basis  for  our 
collective  efforts  to  work  towards  the  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  by  means  of  text-
based negotiations.
Finally,  my  delegation  looks  forward  to  engaging 
in open and transparent negotiations, where the entire 
membership has an equal voice. We must build on that 
as part of our efforts to make the United Nations a more 
efficient and effective instrument in the service of all 
the  peoples  of  the  world.  No  meaningful  reform  of 
the collective United Nations system will be achieved 
without the reform of the Security Council.
Mr. Inguanez (Malta): I wish to join the Permanent 
Representative  of  Italy,  Mr.  Sebastiano  Cardi,  who 
spoke  on  behalf  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group, 
and many other speakers in extending my appreciation 
and gratitude to the President for convening this annual 
debate on Security Council reform. I am sure that under 
the  new  General  Assembly  leadership,  this  important 
item  on  the  Assembly’s  agenda  will  be  given  due 
consideration and receive fresh impetus. We have already 
seen evidence of the determination and enthusiasm to 
move  forward  on  the  issue  in  the  appointment  of  the 
two  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
Ambassador Mohamed Khaled Khiari, the Permanent 
Representative of Tunisia, and Ambassador Ion Jinga, 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Romania,  to  whom 
we extend our congratulations and full support in their 
sensitive task.
24/28 
16-36369
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.42
The Security Council remains an important source 
of legitimacy for international action. Yet, despite the 
political changes, the development of the international 
and  regional  systems,  the  dramatic  events  on  the 
international  security  scene  and  the  consolidation 
of  global  challenges,  the  composition  of  the  Security 
Council  has  remained  unaltered  since  1965.  We  all 
agree that the Security Council of today is not a faithful 
reflection  of  the  new  world  order  of  the  twenty-first 
century. There are some, if not many, who question how 
long the Council’s legitimacy will last if its composition 
is not changed to reflect today’s realities. That brings 
to the fore the question of urgency — of finding a way 
through the complex and multifaceted issue of reform.
Malta  has  always  believed  that  the  founding 
argument  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  Group,  of 
which  we  are  a  part,  is  based  on  the  conviction  that 
the different positions of countries are hard to reconcile 
and  that,  therefore,  a  consensual  approach  is  needed 
in order for an early reform to take place. It is Malta’s 
conviction  that  a  pragmatic  approach  is  required  and 
that  the  whole  family  of  nations  stands  to  gain  from 
compromise  and  the  sharing  of  the  advantages  of  a 
solution that is acceptable to the widest possible range 
of the United Nations membership. Malta also believes 
that a consensual approach is inherently an adaptable 
and flexible approach.
Practically  all  States  today  agree  that  there  is  a 
need for reform. What is elusive is, of course, how to 
reform.  In  our  view,  a  meaningful  reform  proposal  is 
one that tries to strengthen the democratic, functional, 
representational 
the 
Organization, while being realistic about the restraints 
and limitations that this intergovernmental process has 
encountered over the past two decades. It is in that sense 
that we argue for change where change is possible.
features  of 
and 
effective 
In line with this thinking, Malta holds that the key to 
unblocking the present stalemate is in expanding where 
expansion is possible. We think that the most possible 
reform formula is one that focuses on an expansion of 
the  non-permanent  seats  of  the  Council  —  first,  by 
increasing the current number of non-permanent seats, 
and secondly, by establishing a new category of longer-
term  non-permanent  seats  with  the  possibility  of  an 
immediate re-election. In that way those States willing 
to make a larger contribution to the work of the Council 
would have the right to contest elections for a longer-
term seat while creating more space for other States to 
participate in their respective regional groups.
Today’s  debate  faces  far  fewer  questions  about 
whether or not reform is necessary. It rather focuses on 
what kind of reform is possible. As we have moved from a 
position of questioning to accepting the need for reform, 
Malta believes that the time has now come to take the next 
step — moving from accepting that reform is inevitable 
to  defining  what  type  of  reform  can  realistically  be 
achieved. In doing so, a greater understanding of what 
is  at  stake  and  a  greater  willingness  to  listen  to  all 
views are needed. I daresay that what is needed most is 
greater courage — the courage to face the reality that 
the status quo is increasingly becoming a non-option. 
With  that  in  mind,  Malta  stands  ready  to  continue  to 
cooperate  with  the  President,  with  the  new  co-Chairs 
and with the whole United Nations membership in the 
search  for  a  reform  model  that  has  the  support  of  the 
widest possible consensus.
Mr. Gafoor (Singapore): I join previous speakers in 
congratulating Ambassador Ion Jinga of Romania and 
Ambassador Mohamed Khaled Khiari of Tunisia on their 
appointment to lead the work of the intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform. I assure them 
of the support of my delegation.
We  begin  today  the  thirteenth  round  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform. The stark reality is that we have been talking 
about  Security  Council  reform  for  more  than  a 
decade  without  making  any  progress.  So,  we  need 
to  ask  some  hard  questions:  are  we  serious  about 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process  or  about 
Security Council reform? Has the negotiating process 
become a ritual with no outcome — a ritual that over 
time has become an end in itself? If this is just a ritual 
with no outcome, what is the real utility of the process? 
And  after  a  decade,  have  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations become an integral part of the landscape 
of  the  status  quo,  or  are  they  a  vehicle  to  change  the 
status quo?
I leave those questions for reflection by all members. 
There is a more fundamental question that needs to be 
answered,  if  not  publicly  then  at  least  privately.  Are 
the  permanent  members  really  interested  in  Security 
Council reform of any kind? No one here is naive enough 
to  believe  that  the  five  permanent  members  (P-5),  as 
privileged  members  of  the  status  quo,  will  become 
enthusiastic  champions  of  Security  Council  reform. 
However, what exactly are the elements of reform that 
the  P-5  are  prepared  to  accept?  Do  the  P-5  want  the 
intergovernmental  negotiation  sprocess  to  deliver  any 
16-36369
25/28
A/71/PV.42 
07/11/2016
outcome? And if so, what kind of outcome? And what 
kind of timeline do they have in mind? We will need 
greater  clarity  on  the  positions  of  the  P-5  in  order  to 
make progress in the intergovernmental negotiations.
We cannot continue our work in a business-as-usual 
manner. The world has changed considerably since the 
United  Nations  was  established  in  1945.  The  United 
Nations is now facing more intractable challenges than 
ever to peace and security. Yet, the Security Council, 
which  is  tasked  with  the  primary  responsibility  of 
maintaining international peace and security, remains 
deeply paralysed. It is unable to deal with real conflict 
situations in Syria and Yemen, at the cost of so many 
innocent lives.
Just a month ago, the world witnessed an unusual 
spectacle of vetoes and counter-vetoes in the Security 
Council  over  the  question  of  Syria.  If  there  was  any 
proof needed for urgent reforms to the Security Council, 
that  meeting  a  month  ago  provided  a  strong  case.  If 
the  Security  Council,  in  particular  the  permanent 
members, are unable to exercise leadership to resolve 
pressing issues of the day, the case for reform becomes 
stronger,  not  weaker.  And  if  the  P-5  were  to  use  the 
Security Council as the platform to advance their own 
interests or push their pet agendas, then Member States 
would  become  cynical  about  the  role  of  the  Council. 
Ultimately,  the  need  for  Security  Council  reform  is 
linked  to  the  need  to  preserve  the  credibility  of  the 
United Nations, the credibility of the Security Council 
and, above all, the credibility of the permanent members 
of the Council. It is therefore vitally important that the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  deliver  an  outcome 
that  will  strengthen  the  effectiveness,  accountability, 
inclusiveness and transparency of the Security Council.
My  delegation  is  ready  to  engage  constructively 
and  committed  to  making  genuine  progress  in  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  I  wish  to  provide  a 
brief  recap  of  Singapore’s  position  on  the  question  of 
Security  Council  reform.  We  support  expansion  in 
both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of 
membership  to  make  the  Council  more  representative 
and inclusive. But we also believe that any reform of the 
Security  Council  must  go  beyond  just  increasing  the 
number of seats. Reform should make the Council more 
accountable, transparent and inclusive for everyone, not 
just for aspirants to permanent membership. That is an 
important issue for many small States, as we do not have 
many opportunities to serve in the Security Council.
We therefore attach great importance to improving 
the  working  methods  of  the  Council.  We  have  made 
a  number  of  practical  proposals  to  enhance  the 
transparency  and  accountability  of 
the  Security 
Council.  Of  note,  we  have  joined  many  countries  to 
support  limiting  the  use  of  the  veto  by  the  P-5.  We 
do  not  support  extending  the  veto  to  new  permanent 
members,  as  we  do  not  think  additional  vetoes  will 
enhance  the  effectiveness  of  the  Council  to  respond 
to  threats  to  peace  and  security.  We  hope  that  the 
thirteenth intergovernmental negotiations process will 
take these proposals up when it resumes its work later 
this year.
As  we  start  a  new  round  of  negotiations,  I  would 
like to make some general points.
First,  we  need  to  inject  greater  urgency  into  our 
work. The intergovernmental negotiations in particular 
must discuss the elephant in the room and address the 
use  of  the  veto.  If  we  fail  to  do  so,  we  will  relegate 
the work of the negotiations to irrelevance. Singapore 
supports  the  French-Mexican  initiative  calling  on 
the  P-5  to  voluntarily  and  collectively  pledge  not  to 
use  the  veto  in  cases  of  recognized  mass  atrocities. 
We  also  support  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and 
Transparency  (ACT)  Group’s  initiative  on  a  code  of 
conduct  on  Security  Council  action  against  genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity  or  war  crimes.  We  welcome 
the fact that two P-5 members support the initiative of 
the ACT group to restrict the use of the veto in certain 
circumstances.  We  think  that  their  leadership  on  this 
specific  issue  is  commendable.  Clearly,  there  is  a 
growing momentum and growing urgency in favour of 
limiting the use of the veto in cases of mass atrocities. 
The  intergovernmental  negotiations  must  recognize 
that trend and focus its attention on the important issue 
in order to make concrete progress. We also welcome 
the  recent  establishment  of  the  Group  of  Friends  on 
Security Council Reform, which includes, we note, the 
participation of two P-5 members.
Secondly, much work has already been done in the 
intergovernmental negotiations process. We should not 
start from scratch but rather build on our past successes 
and  good  work  done.  We  have  a  useful  framework 
document,  which  was  circulated  by  the  President  of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session, in July 
2015.  We  need  to  build  on  that  framework  document 
and find common ground on each of the five key issues. 
Some  progress  was  achieved  this  year  under  Chair 
Sylvie  Lucas  of  Luxembourg,  who  prepared  elements 
26/28 
16-36369
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.42
of convergence on two of the five key issues. We need 
to continue to identify similar elements of convergence 
on  the  other  three  key  issues.  As  I  mentioned  earlier, 
there seems to be growing support for limiting the use 
of  the  veto,  and  we  hope  that  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations can make progress on this important issue.
Thirdly, we need to prioritize our work and try to 
identify  quick  areas  for  implementation.  Even  as  we 
try to identify areas of convergence in the other three 
outstanding areas, we should look again at the elements 
of the convergence paper and work to identify practical 
steps  that  we  can  take  now,  without  any  amendments 
to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  to  improve  the 
practices of the current Council. The intergovernmental 
negotiations  process  can  and  must  make  progress  in 
areas  where  there  is  strong  support  from  the  United 
Nations membership.
The appointment of two co-Chairs is a good start. 
It shows our willingness to think outside of the box and 
try  fresh  approaches.  Hopefully,  with  two  co-Chairs 
we can double our effort in the quest for progress. The 
President  has  set  the  tone  for  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  process  in  the  seventy-first  session.  My 
delegation  will  work  with  the  President  and  the  two 
co-Chairs to achieve a good outcome.
Mr. Djani (Indonesia): I promise I will be as brief as 
possible. Let me first thank the President for convening 
such an important debate. I would like to congratulate 
Ambassador  Ion  Jinga  of  Romania  and  Ambassador 
Khaled  Khiari  of  Tunisia  on  their  appointment  to 
co-chair  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  at  the 
seventy-first session. My delegation assures them of its 
constructive engagement and support. We also express 
our  gratitude  to  Ambassador  Lucas  of  Luxembourg 
for  chairing  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  at  the 
previous session.
As the recent open debate in the Security Council on 
special  political  missions  (see  S/PV.7802)  highlighted 
once again, the United Nations is faced by significant 
challenges owing to a deteriorating global environment 
resulting from the increase in the number of civil wars 
since  2008  and  various  unresolved  conflicts.  The 
ability and credibility of the Security Council, which is 
unable to effectively perform its Charter role, are being 
questioned on a broad scale. Palestine and Syria are two 
situations where a persistent lack of principled action 
by  the  Council  and  division  among  its  members  have 
worsened conditions for people and made the conflicts 
more intractable.
and 
democratic 
Indonesia  calls  for  a  comprehensive  reform  of 
the  Security  Council,  which  will  make  it  effective, 
accountable, 
representative 
of  contemporary  world 
realities  and  plurality. 
Organizations  are  successful  only  when  they  remain 
true to their fundamental objectives and mandates, and 
only  when  they  are  able  to  meet  the  demands  placed 
on them. It is therefore logical to ponder the efficacy 
of  the  Security  Council  structure  if  that  affects  the 
manner in which the Council is governed and if there 
are problems that prevent the Charter mandate and the 
United Nations ideals from being fulfilled. One obvious 
hurdle is the arbitrary use of the veto, which, in the face 
of mass atrocities, has rendered the Council powerless 
on too many occasions. The use of the veto goes against 
the wishes of the majority, while negating democracy.
While Indonesia is in principle for the abolishment 
of  the  right  of  the  veto  in  the  Council,  given  the 
present entrenched realities, it welcomes steps that will 
strictly regulate its use. We support having a workable 
mechanism to ensure that the veto will not be used for 
perverting  the  cause  of  humanity  and  justice.  That  is 
why  Indonesia  supports  the  initiative  on  refraining 
from the use of the veto in situations of mass crimes, as 
well as the code of conduct regarding Security Council 
action against genocide, crimes against humanity and 
war  crimes.  The  Council  must  stand  unconditionally 
for  upholding  international  justice,  human  rights  law 
and humanitarian law.
Elitist  privileges  and  the  arbitrary  promotion  of 
the  interests  of  a  few  can  undermine  the  principle  of 
collective decision-making needed to resolve conflicts 
justly  and  in  a  coherent  and  sustained  manner.  The 
Council  membership  should  therefore  be  governed 
by  democratic  principles  and  effective  practices. 
Indonesia envisages that in the long run there will be no 
segregation in the Council membership and the division 
between permanent and non-permanent categories will 
eventually cease to exist.
We also believe that developing countries, especially 
emerging  nations,  which  are  demonstrating 
their 
prowess in democracy, economic matters, development 
and peace and security — particularly those that have 
contributed troops to peacekeeping operations — should 
be  given  more  responsibility  in  the  Council  as  active 
agents  for  helping  to  resolve  ongoing  conflicts  and 
16-36369
27/28
A/71/PV.42 
07/11/2016
emerging threats. Their experiences would bring new 
perspectives  to  the  Council’s  decision-making  while 
enriching  the  quality  of  its  working  methods  and 
actions. It would also make for broader participation in 
Council actions, which is critical.
an intermediate approach has the potential to garner the 
broadest possible political acceptance and move things 
forward. In that regard, my delegation will be willing 
to consider all proposals on an intermediate approach 
with an open mind.
its  strong 
track 
Indonesia,  with 
record  of 
advancing  international  peace  and  security  and  its 
commitment  to  being  an  effective  peacemaker  in  the 
present  turbulent  global  environment,  with  its  unique 
profile as the third-largest democracy and the world’s 
eighth-biggest  economy  based  on  purchasing  power 
parity  in  2016,  and  with  its  multi-faith  and  tolerant 
people, has much to offer. It has accordingly presented 
its  candidature  as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the 
Security  Council  for  the  term  2019-2020  and  looks 
forward to becoming an even more effective enabler of 
international peace and harmony. As a country that has 
proved  its  global  responsibility  with  regard  to  others, 
having  been  involved  in  peacekeeping  operations 
since  1957,  Indonesia  is  ready  and  willing  to  assume 
additional responsibility.
We recognize that the strong and divergent views 
of  a  number  of  States  on  the  present  categories  of 
membership  is  a  key  factor  hindering  progress  on 
reform.  We  therefore  have  expressed  support  for  an 
intermediate approach on this issue, as we believe that 
It  is  vital  that  we  imbue  the  dialogue  process 
with  political  wisdom  and  mutual  respect  to  try 
to  forge  greater  commonality.  The  broad  support 
favouring  a  Council  code  on  the  use  of  the  veto  and 
better Council working methods exemplifies countries 
with  different  positions  coming  together.  Progress, 
however  slight  in  appearance,  must  be  harnessed  to 
build  greater  understanding  on  the  five  key  issues. 
We  reaffirm  the  importance  of  decision  62/557  in 
highlighting  five  key  reform  issues,  which  we  should 
address  comprehensively,  and  we  believe  that  no 
opportunity  for  making  progress,  however  meagre, 
should be squandered. We should immediately start the 
reform process.
Indonesia will continue to play its role actively and 
will work with all delegations to help advance practical 
approaches for Council reform that is meaningful and 
enjoys the broadest possible political acceptance. Much 
is at stake and reform is needed if our Organization is 
to remain relevant.
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
28/28 
16-36369
