United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
33rd plenary meeting
Wednesday, 26 October 2016, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.33
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  El  Haycen 
(Mauritania), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 39 (continued)
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/91)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  Before 
giving the floor to speakers in explanation of vote after 
the voting on resolution 71/5, may I remind delegations 
that explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Murtada  Abu  Obaida  (Sudan)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): My delegation aligns itself with the statements 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela  on  behalf  of  the  Movement 
of  Non-Aligned  Countries,  the  representative  of  the 
Niger  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States,  the 
representative of Thailand on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China and the representative of Kuwait on behalf 
of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (see A/71/
PV.32).
Paragraph  30  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  urges  Member  States  to  refrain  from 
implementing  economic,  financial  and  commercial 
unilateral  measures  that  run  counter  to  the  principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations and international 
law,  especially  measures  imposed  against  developing 
countries  such  as  Cuba.  The  2030  Agenda  therefore 
reaffirms  the  illegality  of  the  embargo  policy.  My 
country  actively  contributed  to  the  drafting  and 
adoption  of  all  resolutions  on  coercive  measures  and 
unilateral sanctions, as well as the 2030 Agenda, which 
we back fully.
We  welcome  the  progress  made  in  the  relations 
between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  and  the  visit 
of  United  States  President  Barack  Obama  to  Cuba 
in  March,  where  he  stressed  his  intention  to  work 
on  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  against  Cuba,  restoring  diplomatic 
relations between the two countries and removing Cuba 
from the list of State sponsors of terrorism. Those are 
all  positive  steps,  and  we  expect  to  see  further  steps 
that  will  lead  to  lifting  the  embargo  and  normalizing 
relations between the two countries.
Since  1997,  my  people  have  suffered  under  an 
unjust  unilateral  embargo  that  is  renewed  annually.  It 
has adversely affected all aspects of life, as it restricts 
banking transactions and our access to grants and loans 
and  spare  parts  for  aircraft  and  railroads.  That  has 
even led to airplane crashes, resulting in the deaths of 
many  women,  children  and  men.  It  has  also  affected 
our  opportunities  for  international  cooperation,  and 
it impacted our progress in achieving the Millennium 
Development Goals.
We express our solidarity with Cuba, as we share its 
understanding of the suffering and losses incurred by 
the Cuban people and the impact that it has had on the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-34442 (E)
*16418692*
A/71/PV.33 
26/10/2016
country  and  the  Cuban  people’s  right  to  development 
and access to basic health services, education, nutrition, 
culture, trade and regional and international financing 
opportunities. Without a doubt, the poor have suffered 
the most. We value the step taken by the United Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  in  Geneva  to 
appoint  a  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  negative  impact 
of  unilateral  coercive  measures  on  the  enjoyment  of 
human rights. We call for Member States to support and 
to  help  implement  the  recommendations  in  the  report 
introduced  in  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  Geneva, 
where the Special Rapporteur spoke about the impact of 
coercive and unilateral measures on vulnerable groups 
in society.
Mr.  Alarsan  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  welcome 
Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the friendly nation of Cuba. I would like to 
renew the support of the Syrian Arab Republic for the 
Cuban  Government  and  people  as  they  confront  the 
decades-long unjust embargo by the United States. We 
also  congratulate  Cuba  on  the  significant  diplomatic 
victory achieved today, which reflects the international 
community’s  rejection  of  the  injustice  that  Cuba  has 
suffered for over 50 years.
My  delegation  would  like  to  align  itself  with  the 
statements  delivered  by  the  representative  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  on  behalf  of  the 
Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  and  by  the 
repesentative  of  Thailand  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
77 and China (see A/71/PV.32). We wish to present the 
following explanation of vote in our national capacity.
In our discussions of the unjust policies of various 
influential  countries  in  the  world,  the  decades-long 
United States embargo against Cuba continues to be a 
blatant  example  of  an  ongoing  trend  in  United  States 
foreign  policy  that  is  based  on  imposing  embargoes, 
punishment and unilateral measures against countries 
that  refuse  to  follow  and  submit  to  United  States 
policies,  and  that  simply  wish  to  live  in  dignity  and 
freedom  and  have  their  independence  and  national 
sovereignty respected. 
Although the General Assembly has been meeting 
in  this  Hall  for  over  half  a  century  to  stress,  with  an 
overall majority, that it rejects the United States embargo 
imposed against the Cuban people for that same period, 
the United States has continued to challenge the will of 
the international community and to violate the Charter 
of the United Nations, international law, human rights 
law and international humanitarian law. It also violates 
the  basic  principles  of  international  relations  that  are 
based on respect for sovereignty and non-interference 
in the affairs of others, as well as respect for national 
stability and well-being. The international community 
has  welcomed  the  new  policy  of  the  current  United 
States  Administration  towards  Cuba  in  the  belief 
that  the  policy  will  put  an  end  to  the  unjust  embargo 
imposed against the Cuban people.
Following the visit of the United States President to 
Cuba, and the warm welcome he received, it seemed that 
this painful chapter of Cuban history would be closed. 
No  one  expected  that  the  United  States  embargo  and 
unilateral coercive measures against the Cuban people 
would  continue,  with  new  sanctions  implemented 
against  companies  with  a  history  of  dealings  with 
Cuban  individuals  and  institutions  conducting  legal, 
banking, industrial and commercial operations pursuant 
to international trade laws and rules.
constitute 
Out  of  principle,  my  country  rejects  unilateral 
measures imposed by any country, whether economic, 
commercial  or  financial,  that  undermine  a  country’s 
sovereignty,  impair  its  decision-making  ability  and 
force it to take specific actions or change its policies. 
Such  unilateral  measures 
collective 
punishment  of  an  entire  population.  They  undermine 
the  United  Nations  system  and  impede  international 
trade  operations  and  the  enjoyment  of  human  rights. 
It is now urgent for the Governments of countries that 
impose  unilateral  economic  measures  to  realize  that 
such  measures  actually  increase  anti-West  sentiment 
and  provide  extremists  and  terrorists  with  a  new 
weapon to influence vulnerable groups in society that 
are targeted by illegal unilateral measures. This in turn 
threatens international peace and security.
Based  on  those  facts,  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic 
voted  in  favour  of  resolution  71/5,  together  with  190 
other  nations.  The  country  that  imposed  this  unjust 
embargo  against  the  Cuban  people  abstained,  as  did 
the delegation of the Israeli occupation, which was not 
surprising,  for  it  has  voted  against  this  resolution  for 
25  years.  This  demonstrates  yet  again  that  it  respects 
neither international law nor the relevant United Nations 
resolutions nor the Charter of the United Nations.
My country calls on the General Assembly to take 
the necessary measures, based on the principles of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  to  end  the  aggressive 
2/10 
16-34442
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.33
and 
unilateral 
embargoes 
practices, 
economic 
measures  imposed  against  some  countries.  We  also 
call  for  international  efforts  to  be  stepped  up  with  a 
view to exposing the impact of such coercive unilateral 
measures,  which  are  based  on  the  use  of  force  and 
hegemony to subjugate others.
We  call  for  the  lifting  of  the  embargo  imposed 
by  the  United  States  against  Cuba  and  for  an  end  to 
the unilateral measures imposed by the United States, 
members  of  the  European  Union  and  other  countries 
against  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic.  These  aggressive 
coercive  measures  prevent  the  Syrian  people  from 
accessing basic services such as nutrition, health care, 
education, medical supplies, fuel, and agricultural and 
industrial items, as well as spare parts for civil aviation 
and 
telecommunications  equipment.  They  violate 
the  rights  of  the  Syrian  people  and  they  damage  our 
economy and efforts to combat terrorism.
One  question  remains  unanswered:  how  can  the 
United States, the countries of the European Union and 
others  reconcile  the  statements  they  deliver  here  and 
in other forums — about democracy, human rights and 
sutainable development — with policies that are based 
on  the  oppression  of  peoples  and  the  exploitation  of 
their economic, humanitarian and social situations, or 
that give a free pass to those who support terrorists?
Mr.  Dibaei  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  Today  the 
General Assembly once again expressed its support for 
and solidarity with the Government and the people of 
Cuba  through  a  decisive  vote  in  favour  of  resolution 
71/5,  which  calls  for  the  lifting  of  the  United  States 
embargo  against  Cuba.  One  hundred  and  ninety-one 
Member  States,  including  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran, voted in favour of the resolution. The adoption of 
Assembly  resolutions  on  this  topic,  with  such  a  wide 
range of support and over the course of so many years, 
clearly indicates the strong objection of the international 
community  to  unilateral  economic  coercive  measures 
in general and the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo imposed against Cuba in particular.
It  is  also  a  sign  of  increasing  sympathy  with  the 
aspiration  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of  Cuba 
to  end  this  unlawful  and  inhumane  embargo.  The 
economic, commercial and financial embargo on Cuba, 
which has lasted for decades, serves no purpose other 
than  inflicting  tremendous  hardship  and  suffering  on 
the  people  of  Cuba,  especially  women  and  children. 
The embargo has seriously jeopardized the legitimate 
rights  and  interests  of  Cuba  and  other  States,  as  well 
as  freedom  of  trade  and  navigation.  It  therefore  must 
be lifted immediately, as requested by all the relevant 
resolutions of the General Assembly.
Differences and problems among countries should 
be resolved through peaceful means and dialogue on the 
basis of equality and mutual respect for the sovereignty 
of  Member  States.  The  Government  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  reiterates  its  strong  belief  that  the 
economic,  commerical  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba runs counter to the principles of international law 
that govern relations among States and contradicts the 
letter  and  spirit  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
which calls for the promotion of solidarity, cooperation 
and friendly relations among nations.
Such  measures  continue  to  adversely  affect  the 
living conditions and human rights of the Cuban people 
and will hamper the efforts of the Government of Cuba 
to  achieve  the  internationally  agreed  development 
goals,  including  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
In that context, the embargo continues to constrain the 
efforts  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of  Cuba  to 
eradicate  poverty  and  hunger  and  to  promote  health 
and education, which are indispensable means for the 
achievement of economic and social development.
The Islamic Republic of Iran remains opposed to the 
application of unilateral economic and trade measures 
by the United States against other countries, blocking 
the  flow  of  people,  trade  and  finance.  We  are  also 
opposed  to  the  extraterritorial  application  and  effects 
of such national legislation on the sovereignty of other 
States.  The  sanctions  are  contrary  to  the  principles 
of  international  law,  the  sovereign  equality  of  States, 
non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States  and 
peaceful coexistence among States.
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  which  has  iself 
experienced  economic  coercive  measures,  shares  the 
concern of the Government and the people of Cuba, and 
therefore emphasizes with the urgent need to put an end 
to such measures and fully implement the contents of 
resolution 71/5, adopted today.
Mr. Gumende (Mozambique): Mozambique would 
like  to  associate  itself  with  all  those  countries  that 
voted  in  favour  of  resolution  71/5,  as  it  reflects  the 
unconditional and overwhelming support and solidarity 
of  the  international  community  to  the  cause  of  the 
people of Cuba.
16-34442
3/10
A/71/PV.33 
26/10/2016
By  advocating  the  end  of  the  blockade  against 
Cuba,  Mozambique  reaffirms  its  compliance  with  the 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations, as well 
as the implementation of internationally agreed relevant 
provisions,  including  resolution  70/5,  adopted  during 
the  Assembly’s  seventieth  session.  In  that  context, 
Mozambique  affirms  that  it  has  never  promulgated, 
applied  or  contributed  to  the  application  of  any  of 
the  laws  or  regulations  mentioned  in  the  Assembly’s 
resolutions on this issue.
Mozambique  welcomes  the  re-establishment  of 
diplomatic  relations  between  the  United  States  of 
America  and  Cuba.  The  re-opening  of  the  diplomatic 
embassies  of  the  two  countries  and  the  visit  of 
President Obama to Cuba are among the positive steps 
taken towards the normalization of bilateral relations. 
Mozambique  commends  those  steps  and  wishes  to 
encourage  further  progress  towards  the  goals  and 
aspirations  that  the  voting  pattern  in  this  Hall  every 
year clearly reflects. The result of the voting we have 
just witnessed represents an important milestone.
It  is  crucial  to  remove  the  existing  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba to allow 
the country to promote its national development more 
forcefully in this critical period of the implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
which advocates that we should leave no one behind in 
pursuing this noble goal.
Notwithstanding 
the  enormous  economic  and 
social  challenges  arising  from  the  blockade,  Cuba 
has played a principled role as a relevant development 
partner in the context of South-South cooperation and 
solidarity, a role that is worthy of our continuous praise. 
Indeed, in the framework of the implementation of our 
national development agenda, Cuba has always been a 
reliable  cooperation  partner,  mainly  in  Mozambique’s 
social sectors such as education and health, alongside 
other important bilateral and multilateral development 
partners,  whose  valuable  support  we  cherish  and 
greatly appreciate.
I would like to conclude by reiterating the support 
of  Mozambique  to  the  cause  of  the  people  of  Cuba 
in  their  quest  to  secure  the  lifting  of  the  economic 
blockade, which is long overdue.
Mr.  Mendoza-García  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  My  country  associates 
the 
statement made on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, 
and  with  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of 
itself  with 
the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States  (see  A/71/PV.32).  We  would  also  like  to  share 
some considerations in our national capacity.
Costa  Rica  welcomes  the  re-establishment  of 
diplomatic  relations  between  the  United  States  of 
America and Cuba. We highlight the March visit of the 
President of the United States to Cuba, the first in 88 
years, as a significant step towards improved and full 
bilateral relations. We applaud the measures announced 
by high-level officials of both countries with regard to 
political  dialogue  and  openness  in  several  mutually 
beneficial areas, with positive implications for the well-
being of the Cuban people.
Today we welcome the new United States position 
of  abstaining  in  the  voting  on  resolution  71/5,  newly 
adopted. 
In  fully  keeping  with  international  law  and  the 
principles  undergirding  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, Costa Rica reiterates its firm opposition to the 
current policy of economic, commercial and financial 
embargo  imposed  against  Cuba,  particularly  through 
the  Helms-Burton  Act,  which  is  a  true  obstacle  to 
international trade. My delegation stresses that, in line 
with the core position of our foreign policy, it entirely 
rejects unilateral and extraterritorial measures, applied 
by any State against any other, and carried out by the 
imposition of laws and regulations on third parties.
The  official  visit  of  Costa  Rica’s  delegation  to 
Cuba  in  December  2015  consolidated  the  process 
of  formalizing  diplomatic  relations  between 
the 
two  nations  and  enabled  bilateral  trade  and  greater 
cooperation in work of mutual interest, such as higher 
education,  technical  and  scientific  cooperation  and 
exchange, health, high-performance sports and foreign 
trade. The Costa Rican agency in charge of promoting 
foreign  trade  signed  a  cooperation  agreement  with 
ProCuba  that  supports  the  rapprochement  of  our 
countries,  helps  diversify  foreign  trade  and  promotes 
foreign investment.
Our  times  call  for  tearing  down  obstacles  that 
separate  nations  and  generate  artificial  divisions 
between  peoples.  The  exchange  and  development  of 
mutual  knowledge  of  our  realities  and  dreams  will 
give  way  to  greater  respect  and  solidarity  among  all 
human beings.
For  many  decades  now,  the  embargo  imposed 
against Cuba has stood out as a tool of an outdated past 
4/10 
16-34442
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.33
that must be replaced by fraternal engagement among 
nations in all areas of economic, social, technological 
and political cooperation within the framework of the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  In  that 
connection, I will end with the words of the President of 
the Republic, Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, pronounced 
during the general debate at the current session of the 
General Assembly:
“we  reiterate  our  support  for  the  lifting  of  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade 
against  Cuba  in  accordance  with  the  systematic, 
almost  unanimous,  demands  of  the  international 
community to that end.” (A/71/PV.10, p.18)
Mr. Lucas (Angola): The Angolan delegation aligns 
itself with the statements of the representatives of the 
Niger, Thailand and Venezuela on behalf, respectively, 
of  the  Group  of  African  States,  the  Group  of  77  and 
China  and  the  Non-Aligned  Movement    (see  A/71/
PV.32).
Allow me to begin by extending a warm welcome 
to Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  of  Cuba,  and  congratulating  Cuba  on  the 
adoption  of  draft  resolution  71/5,  on  the  necessity  of 
ending the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba. 
That  adoption  reflects  the  widespread  support  of  the 
international community for the Cuban people.
reiterates 
its 
for 
Angola 
appreciation 
the 
normalization  of  diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba 
and  the  United  States.  We  also  welcome  President 
Barack Obama’s historic visit to Cuba this year, in the 
expectation that it will be a tangible step towards the 
lifting of the embargo against Cuba. However, despite 
the  encouraging  steps  taken  by  the  President  of  the 
United  States  to  normalize  relations  between  the  two 
countries, outstanding barriers remain. The resolution 
adopted  today  is  relevant.  Angola  therefore  voted 
in  favour  of  it,  as  did  the  vast  majority  of  the  United 
Nations membership.
The  persistence  of  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  measures  imposed  by  the  United  States 
against  Cuba  is  a  cause  for  concern.  We  expect  that 
the resumption of diplomatic relations between the two 
countries  will  prompt  the  United  States  authorities  to 
continue to take measures aimed at completely ending 
the embargo, in line with the principles of mutual respect 
and respect for the Cuban people to freely exercise the 
right to choose their political and economic systems.
We  regret  that,  despite  the  executive  measures 
adopted by the President of the United States and his 
Administration,  the  embargo  remains  in  force  as  an 
obstacle to the full normalization of relations between 
the  two  nations.  We  are  particularly  concerned  about 
the  persistent  extraterritorial  nature  of  the  embargo, 
notably in the banking and financial areas. As clearly 
illustrated by Foreign Minister Rodríguez Parrilla in his 
statement this morning (see A/71/PV.32), the embargo 
has  exacted  an  immense  human  and  financial  toll  on 
the Cuban people. According to conservative estimates 
by Cuban authorities, between March 2015 and March 
2016,  the  cost  to  Cuba  of  sanctions  amounted  to  over 
$4 billion. In that context, Angola reiterates the urgent 
need  to  lift  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
restrictions imposed by the United States against Cuba, 
which constitute a major obstacle to Cuba’s economic, 
trade and financial relations with the United States and 
the rest of the world and prevent the Cuban people from 
developing their full potential.
Angola  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  respecting, 
preserving and promoting the principles of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  provisions  of  international 
law,  as  they  constitute  the  basis  of  multilateralism  in 
the  collective  effort  to  maintain  international  peace 
and security, further social and economic development 
and promote respect for human rights and fundamental 
freedoms.  Angola  commends,  and  once  again 
encourages, the efforts of the Secretary-General to put 
an end to the embargo, which has been in force for over 
50 years.
Angola  reiterates  its  unconditional  support  for 
the  implementation  of  the  provisions  set  out  in  the 
resolution  adopted  today,  and  takes  this  opportunity 
to appeal once again to the international community to 
redouble efforts to promot constructive and transparent 
dialogue  between  the  two  countries  and  achieve  the 
objectives of the resolution. 
Finally, Angola commends the position adopted by 
the United States delegation in abstaining in the voting 
today,  and  strongly  encourages  the  United  States  and 
Cuba to pursue dialogue and build a relationshipbased 
on mutual trust.
Ms.  King  (Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines): 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines aligns itself with the 
statements delivered today on behalf of the Caribbean 
Community, the Non-Aligned Movement, the Group of 
16-34442
5/10
A/71/PV.33 
26/10/2016
77 and China, and the Community of Latin American 
and Caribbean States (see A/71/PV.32).
When President Obama elaborated his normalization 
process, most of the world had already determined that 
the policy of the United States in relation to Cuba had 
failed.  Indeed,  it  was  viewed  globally  as  a  ridiculous 
anachronism,  a  relic  of  the  Cold  War  and  the  cause 
of  an  untenable,  unnecessary  and  undesirable  fissure 
in  the  hemispheric  family.  While  Saint  Vincent  and 
the Grenadines certainly welcomes the steps taken to 
date  by  the  Obama  Administration,  it  is  nevertheless 
mindful  that  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade remains in place.
My  delegation  takes  the  floor  today  to  reiterate 
that the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
constitutes  the  greatest  obstacle  to  the  development 
of  the  full  potential  of  the  Cuban  economy  and 
the  well-being  of  its  people.  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines  continues  to  believe  that  this  blockade  is 
morally unsustainable.
Opposition to that inhumane policy is now almost 
universal. In this very Hall, just over one year ago, the 
international community adopted the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development,  which  sets  Goals  to  guide 
the creation of the future we want and aims at leaving 
no one behind. 
The  stirring  and  inspiring  words  of  President 
Barack Obama in his inaugural address to the General 
Assembly in 2009 remain relevant and bear repeating 
again and again. He said then: 
“The choice is ours ... we can be a generation that 
chooses  to  see  the  shoreline  beyond  the  rough 
waters  ahead,  that  comes  together  to  serve  the 
common  interests  of  human  beings,  and  finally 
gives meaning to the promise embedded in the name 
given  to  this  institution  —  the  United  Nations.” 
(A/64/PV. 3, p. 11)
During  his  final  address  to  the  United  Nations 
as  President  of  the  United  States,  President  Obama 
rejected the notion that the future favoured the strong. 
He  believes  Governments  serve  people,  not  the  other 
way around. We know that citizens across the United 
States  are  joining  the  international  community  by 
increasingly  voicing  their  disapproval  and  calling  for 
the lifting of the unilateral sanctions.
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  agrees  with 
President  Obama  that  we  have  made  strides  to  better 
align  our  actions  with  our  ideas.  In  that  connection, 
we recognize and commend the decision of the United 
States  to  abstain  in  the  voting  today.  However,  we 
believe  that  President  Obama  possesses  executive 
powers  that  will  allow  him  to  further  modify  the 
regulations governing the blockade. Let us look to the 
future, keep pace with the times and heed the insistent 
and  consistent  voice  of  the  international  community. 
Resolution 71/5 is a matter of moral rectitude and of the 
well-being of approximately 12 million Cubans.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines enthusiastically 
voted in favour of resolution 71/5. We believe in change, 
and  are  encouraged  by  the  abstention  of  the  United 
States  today.  We  live  in  renewed  hope  that  next  year 
there will be no need for us to vote on this resolution 
yet again.
In 
Mr. Habib (Indonesia): Indonesia associates itself 
with  the  statements  delivered  earlier  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China, the Movement of Non-Aligned 
Countries  and  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations (see A/71/PV.32).
the  past  year 
there  have  been  positive 
developments  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  in 
relation to the embargo imposed in 1961. Some of the 
highlights include the restoration of diplomatic relations 
between Cuba and the United States and the first visit 
by  a  United  States  President  to  Cuba.  At  about  this 
time last year, the international community adopted the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  which  is 
premised  on  the  commitment  to  leave  no  one  behind. 
We hope that those events can serve as a foundation on 
which to build cooperation between the two countries 
and bring about inclusive and sustainable development.
long-standing  embargo  has 
remained,  and  therefore  is  still  a  concern  here  at  the 
United  Nations.  The  embargo  has  created  endless 
economic  and  social  hardship  and  suffering  for  the 
people of Cuba, especially for vulnerable groups, such 
as  children  and  women.  The  blockade  is  also  one  of 
the main factors preventing Cuba from developing the 
full potential of its economy, while at the same time it 
has sapped Cuba’s ability to promote the welfare of the 
Cuban people.
Nevertheless, 
the 
Indonesia 
Furthermore, 
the 
imposition  of  an  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo against Cuba contradicts the main principles 
of  international  law,  including  the  principles  of  the 
sovereign  equality  of  States  and  of  non-intervention 
believes 
that 
6/10 
16-34442
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.33
and  non-interference  in  another’s  domestic  affairs.  It 
also  runs  counter  to  international  humanitarian  law, 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  norms  and 
principles  governing  peaceful  relations  among  States. 
More  important,  the  application  of  the  embargo  goes 
against  the  spirit  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and 
leave  no 
one behind.
the  commitment 
to 
steps 
in 
the 
initial 
While  welcoming 
the 
normalization  of  bilateral  relations  between  Cuba 
and  the  United  States,  including  the  United  States 
President’s expression of willingness to work towards 
the  lifting  of  the  blockade,  Indonesia  believes  that 
more  needs  to  be  done.  In  particular,  steps  should  be 
taken  to  accelerate  the  process  of  repealing  the  laws 
and  regulations  that  allow  the  United  States  embargo 
to take place.
Bearing  in  mind  the  considerations  I  mentioned, 
and  fully  taking  into  account  Indonesia’s  cordial  ties 
with, and strong support for, the Government and the 
people  of  Cuba,  and  of  the  United  States,  Indonesia 
would like to join other States Members of the United 
Nations  in  calling  for  the  immediate  cessation  of  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba. Indonesia 
therefore supported the adoption of the resolution 71/5.
Mr.  Boukadoum  (Algeria):  We  have  heard  so 
many voices from all over the world stating once again 
their firm stand against the continuation of the unjust 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
unilaterally  on  Cuba  for  more  than  half  a  century. 
Today there is almost unanimity among Member States 
in unequivocally calling for the lifting of the embargo. 
Algeria considers Cuba more than just a friend that 
stood by it in dire times. Cuban doctors have shown their 
commitment  and  expertise  well  beyond  their  borders 
and, most recently, were at the forefront in fighting the 
Ebola virus epidemic. They did so on behalf of and for 
the sake of the whole international community, with no 
payback whatsoever.
 Let me also state that we welcomed wholeheartedly 
the  resumption  of  diplomatic  relations  between  the 
United  States  of  America  and  Cuba,  and  we  likewise 
followed the bold decisions taken by President Obama 
before, during and after his trip to Cuba. 
Today’s  abstention  in  the  voting  by  the  United 
States  is  extremely  reassuring  and  positive.  A  few 
steps are left to complete this historic effort — the total 
lifting of the embargo for the sake of the Cuban and the 
American  peoples,  but  also  for  the  sake  of  the  whole 
world  and  the  new  opportunities  that  would  thereby 
be opened.
In  that  regard,  I  sincerely  commend  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla  for  this  ground-breaking  success. 
But  I  also  want  to  stress  the  very  encouraging  and 
promising  stand  expressed  by  Ambassador  Samantha 
Power  on  today’s  outcome  (see  A/71/PV.32).  It  is  a 
success  for  everyone.  Seldom  do  we  have  such  near 
unanimity  on  any  text  in  the  United  Nations.  It  is  a 
victory for Cuba, but also for the United States — and, 
beyond that, for multilateralism.
Algeria is proud to have participated for years now 
in  the  formation  of  this  consensus.  May  it  be  a  good 
omen for other conflicting issues at the United Nations.
Mr. Zamora Rivas (El Salvador) (spoke in Spanish): 
El Salvador aligns itself with the statement delivered by 
the representative of the Dominican Republic on behalf 
of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States and the statement delivered by the representative 
of Thailand on behalf of the Group of 77 and China (see 
A/71/PV.32).
The Government of El Salvador sees the outcome 
of  the  voting  this  morning  as  positive.  No  country  in 
the  world  expressed  its  opposition.  This  is  a  historic 
milestone in international politics. For that reason, we 
welcome this step forward, which we hope will lead to 
the total lifting of the embargo against Cuba as quickly 
as possible. Today the Government of Cuba can now say 
to its people and to all peoples that no Government in the 
world supports the embargo, including the Government 
that had initiated it. That is a huge achievement.
El  Salvador  respects  the  purposes  and  principles 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and notes 
that they continue to be valid and must be respected by 
all Member States in the process of the changes we have 
initiated.  The  President  of  my  own  country,  Salvador 
Sánchez Cerén, stated at the seventy-first session of the 
General Assembly:
“In 
the  Americas,  we  have  noted  with 
satisfaction  the  progress  made  by  Cuba  and  the 
United States in restoring their relations. However, 
we  believe  that  this  change  will  not  bring  the 
expected  benefits  to  the  people  of  both  countries 
16-34442
7/10
A/71/PV.33 
26/10/2016
including 
if the economic embargo is not brought to an end.” 
(A/71/PV.14, p.11)
El  Salvador  commends  the  efforts  made  in  the 
context  of  restoring  diplomatic  ties  between  the  two 
countries, 
the  reopening  of  embassies, 
the  visit  to  Cuba  by  President  Obama  in  March,  the 
resumption of regular ties between the two countries, 
the adoption of measures on the use of the United States 
dollar in international transactions and the amendments 
enacted  by  the  Department  of  the  Treasury  and  the 
Department of Commerce of the United States to some 
of  the  regulations  governing  the  embargo.  However, 
although  these  measures  constitute  welcome  steps, 
they are limited and modify only some aspects of the 
embargo.
The  opening  of  the  relationship  between  the  two 
countries  is  a  clear  anomoly  for  the  international 
community.  However,  the  opening  of  international 
relations  means 
the  recognition  of  each  other’s 
sovereignty, signifying friendship between them. That 
is incompatible with one of those countries continuing 
an embargo against the other, causing unnecessary  and 
unjust difficulties and distress for the people.
I 
think 
it  worth  pointing  out 
that,  despite 
these  measures,  Cuba,  through  perseverance  and 
determination,  has  been  able  to  overcome  in  an 
exemplary  manner 
the  obstacles  and  adversities 
standing in its way. El Salvador applauds the progress 
that  Cuba  has  made  in  strengthening  its  economy 
and  improving  its  productive  processes.  Under  the 
blockade, the effects on the Cuban people in the areas 
of nutrition, health and education are glaringly obvious. 
At the same time, Cuba continues to be prevented from 
freely  exporting  and  importing  products  and  services 
to  and  from  the  United  States.  It  cannot  have  direct 
banking  relationships  with  this  country,  nor  can  it 
receive  United  States  investment  in  other  sectors  of 
the  economy,  apart  from  the  telecommunications 
sector. The upsurge of the embargo is reflected in the 
imposition of fines running into the millions of dollars 
meted out against banks and financial institutions that 
maintain links with Cuba, as well as in the bias against 
international financial transactions that include Cuba.
El Salvador calls for a complete end to the economic, 
commercial and financial embargo that persists against 
Cuba,  because  not  only  is  it  unjust  and  illegal,  but  it 
also  lacks  the  international  community’s  support.  In 
that  regard,  El  Salvador  reiterates  the  importance  of 
compliance  with  the  provisions  of  resolution  47/19, 
adopted  on  24  November  1992,  and  compliance  with 
all the subsequent relevant resolutions adopted by the 
Assembly year after year, up to the present, that have 
emphasized the necessity of ending this embargo.
Finally,  the  Government  of  El  Salvador  reiterates 
the  three  aspirations  that  are  cherished  not  just  by 
the  Cuban  people,  but  also  by  our  own  peoples  and 
Governments.  First,  the  Government  of  the  United 
States  will  unilaterally  lift  the  embargo.  Secondly, 
dialogue  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  will 
continue. Thirdly, after so many years, all the peoples 
of the Americas, without exception, will be able to sit 
at the same table.
Mr.  Raja  Zaib  Shah  (Malaysia):  Malaysia  aligns 
itself with the statements delivered by representatives 
on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, 
the Group of 77 and China, the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation,  and  the  Association  of  the  Southeast 
Asian Nations (see A/71/PV.32).
The  General  Assembly  has  consistently  adopted 
the draft resolution on this subject by an overwhelming 
majority  since  it  was  first  submitted  in  1992.  For 
more  than  24  years,  the  Assembly  has  demanded  an 
unconditional  lifting  of  the  embargo  that  has  caused 
enormous suffering and untold hardship for the Cuban 
people. The nearly unanimous recorded vote this year 
clearly demonstrates the concerted international stand 
of 191 countries with Cuba on the annual draft resolution 
calling  for  an  immediate  end  to  the  embargo  against 
that  country.  The  unilateral  action  in  question  runs 
counter to the purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations. The General Assembly has always 
reiterated its rejection of coercive measures that could 
adversely  affect  the  socioeconomic  development  of 
developing  countries.  The  continued  existence  of  the 
embargo undermines multilateralism and the credibility 
of the United Nations.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  in  2015,  includes 
a  paragraph  urging  Member  States  to  refrain  from 
applying unilateral financial and commercial measures 
that run counter to the principles of the United Nations 
and 
to  developing 
countries. An immediate end to the embargo is critical 
to improving the living standards of the Cuban people, 
particularly  in  view  of  the  2030  Agenda  theme  of 
leaving no one behind.
law,  especially 
international 
8/10 
16-34442
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.33
Malaysia  welcomes  the  restoration  of  diplomatic 
relations between Cuba and the United States and the 
lifting of restrictions on travel and remittances. We also 
welcome the recent visit by President Obama to Cuba 
in March.
Malaysia applauds the United States for its decision 
today to abstain in the voting on resolution 71/5, which 
is  a  step  in  the  right  direction.  We  acknowledge  that 
much  remains  to  be  done.  We  encourage  the  United 
States and Cuba to continue to engage in an open and 
constructive  dialogue,  which  must  be  conducted  with 
mutual respect and without any preconditions.
Malaysia firmly believes that the complete lifting 
of the embargo will not only significantly improve the 
quality of life and living standards of the Cuban people, 
but will also contribute to peace, security and stability 
in the Americas.
Mr.  Shaltut  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, my delegation aligns itself with the statements 
delivered on behalf of the groups to which we belong 
(see A/71/PV.32).
My  delegation  has  taken  note  of  the  report  of 
the  Secretary-General  on  the  necessity  of  ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba 
(A/71/91),  which  was  prepared  pursuant  to  resolution 
70/5, adopted in 2015.
My  country  welcomes  the  improved  relations 
between  the  United  States  of  America  and  Cuba,  as 
evidenced in particular by the visit of President Barack 
Obama  to  Cuba  in  March  and  the  steps  taken  by  the 
United States Administration to amend several aspects 
of the embargo against Cuba, which we consider a step 
in the right direction. We are hopeful that further steps 
and measures will be taken with a view to lifting the 
embargo completely.
In  line  with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and  international  human  rights  law,  Libya  has  never 
implemented any of the laws or measures referred to in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of resolution 71/5. My country fully 
believes that the only way to settle differences between 
countries is through peaceful means and that imposing 
unilateral measures against countries runs contrary to 
the  Charter  and  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights.  Such  measures  constitute  an  obstacle  to,  and 
disrupt the process of, the development and prosperity 
of  nations.  They  stand  in  the  way  of  achieving  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  which  the  General 
Assembly adopted unanimously one year ago.
For all of those reasons, my country voted in favour 
of the resolution 70/5. We believe that such unilateral 
measures must not be reproduced in the future.
Ms.  Scott  (Namibia):  Namibia  would  like  to 
join  other  delegations  in  congratulating  the  Cuban 
delegation on the vote.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the representatives of Venezuela on behalf of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM),  of  the  Niger  on 
behalf of the Group of African States, and of Thailand 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  (see  A/71/
PV.32).
We would like to take this opportunity to commend 
Cuba for its humanitarian and other assistance to many 
developing  countries,  including  Haiti  and  Namibia. 
Namibia  thanks  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report 
(A/71/91) on the implementation of resolution 70/5.We 
want to say that we indeed welcome the statement made 
this morning by the representative of the United States 
of America (see A/71/PV.32)
The title of this agenda item — “Necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America  against 
Cuba” — says it all. Other words related to “necessity” 
include  “inevitable”,  “obligation”  and  “stipulation”. 
As was highlighted in the statement made on behalf of 
NAM, the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
against  Cuba  is  contrary  to  international  law  and  the 
Charter of the United Nations. It is disheartening that, 
after 54 years, the embargo policy against Cuba has yet 
to end.
Namibia  understands  that  the  United  States  holds 
the  law  in  the  highest  regard.  We  need  therefore  to 
ask  that  country,  following  the  visit  in  March  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United 
States:  was  the  international  community  remiss  in 
believing that this senseless embargo would have been 
lifted  by  now?  Namibia  was  hopeful  when  Cuba  was 
removed  from  the  list  of  State  sponsors  of  terrorism, 
on  which  Cuba  should  have  never  been  placed  in  the 
first place. 
Yet the embargo remains very much in place, as the 
Secretary-General’s  report  indicates.  The  report  also 
states clearly that, despite a number of amendments to 
regulations that keep the policy in place, the economic 
16-34442
9/10
A/71/PV.33 
26/10/2016
hardship  imposed  by  the  United  States  has  not  come 
to an end. The report states, on page 27, that financial 
and  extraterritorial  aspects  of  the  embargo  have  been 
further intensified under the Trading with the Enemy 
Act of 1917.
Based on the logic of law, it is not understandable or 
logical that the United States should continue to regard 
Cuba as an enemy. Furthermore, it is not clear why the 
blockade against Cuba was further strengthened through 
the  imposition  of  fines,  in  excess  of  $13.2  billion,  on 
those entities having relations with Cuba.
The  establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  is  an 
important  first  step  towards  the  normalization  of 
relations between Cuba and the United States. We have 
been greatly encouraged by recent diplomatic talks and 
by the policies of rapprochement adopted by the United 
States with regard to Cuba. We would also encourage 
determined  progress  towards  the  further  easing  of 
the  remaining  restrictions  in  the  areas  of  travel  and 
telecommunications, as well as remittances.
Namibia  urges  the  Government  of  the  United 
States  of  America  to  fully  normalize  relations  with 
the Republic of Cuba by lifting all unilateral coercive 
measures,  not  only  owing  to  their  illegality  but  also 
because  of  humanitarian  considerations.  We  look 
forward to the ending of the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 
take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to conclude its 
consideration of agenda item 39.
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4.10 p.m.
10/10 
16-34442
