United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
29th plenary meeting
Friday, 14 October 2016, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.29
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In the absence of the President, Ms. Young (Belize), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
(SDGs),  alongside  the  complementary  aims  of  the 
African Union’s Agenda 2063.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda items 62 and 12 (continued)
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and international 
support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and international 
support
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/71/189 and 
A/71/203)
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable in Africa
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/211)
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
Ms. Mamdani (Canada): One year ago (see A/70/
PV.4),  all  193  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
gathered  in  this  very  Hall  to  adopt  the  historic  2030 
Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  a  global 
framework  that  challenges  all  of  us  to  create  a 
prosperous,  sustainable  and  equitable  world  within 
one generation. Canada commends the early efforts of 
many African countries to implement the 2030 Agenda 
and its ambitious set of Sustainable Development Goals 
The 2030 Agenda is universal, and every country 
in the world must do its part to ensure that no one is left 
behind. I am proud to say that Canada is fully committed 
to supporting the implementation of the 2030 Agenda at 
home and abroad. In fact, we are currently undertaking 
an international assistance review that will help to shape 
Canada’s approach to implementation of the SDGs. As 
we  look  to  revitalize  our  approach  to  development,  I 
can  say  that  we  will  invest  our  efforts  in  helping  the 
poorest and most vulnerable, supporting fragile States 
and empowering women and girls to realize their full 
potential  as  active  participants  in  and  contributors  to 
their societies.
It is clear, however, that investing in development 
alone  is  not  enough.  The  theme  of  this  year’s  Africa 
Week here at the United Nations, and indeed the frank 
and fruitful discussions that it has sparked, underscores 
the  interrelated  nature  of  development,  governance 
and  security,  and  the  importance  of  addressing  these 
issues together in order to achieve peace and prosperity 
in  Africa.  Canada  is  committed  to  supporting  and 
partnering  with  African  countries 
to  help  spur 
economic growth, promote effective governance, fight 
climate  change  and  address  key  drivers  of  insecurity. 
For  example,  Canada  recently  announced  its  support 
for the African Institute for Mathematical Sciences, to 
contribute to the advancement of women in the fields 
of  science  and  mathematics,  strengthen  the  Institute’s 
approach to combating climate change and establish a 
new centre of excellence in francophone Africa.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-32967 (E)
*1632967*
A/71/PV.29 
14/10/2016
We will continue to pursue mutually beneficial trade 
and investment opportunities, which can generate new 
revenues and jobs. And as a determined peacebuilder, 
we  will  take  a  more  active  role  in  helping  to  bring 
stability  and  security  to  the  world.  To  that  end,  my 
Government has pledged to provide up to 600 Canadian 
armed  forces  personnel  for  possible  deployment  to 
United Nations peace operations. Canada also strongly 
supports  regional  integration  and  collaboration  in 
Africa as a mechanism for achieving peace and stability, 
democratic  governance,  inclusive  development  and 
economic  prosperity  across  the  continent.  In  this 
regard, we are currently exploring ways to strengthen 
Canada’s engagement with key continental and regional 
institutions, including the African Union.
Although it is clear that much work must be done 
to  achieve  our  collective  global  goals,  I  would  like 
to  assure  the  Assembly  that  Canada  will  remain  a 
strong and dynamic partner in our shared objective of 
promoting peace, development and prosperity for all of 
Africa.
Mr. Mminele (South Africa): South Africa would 
also like to pay tribute to the memory of His Excellency 
Mr.  Girma  Asmerom  Tesfay,  the  late  Ambassador  of 
Eritrea to the United Nations.
South  Africa  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered  this  morning  by  the  representatives  of 
Thailand, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and 
the Niger, on behalf of the Group of African States (see 
A/71/PV.28).
From 
the  outset,  my  delegation  considers 
it 
important to highlight the fact that the African continent 
continues  to  contend  with  a  variety  of  challenges, 
including  poverty,  high  unemployment  and  continued 
rising  inequality.  The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD) is an African-tailored strategic 
blueprint  designed  to  contribute  positively  to  African 
economies’ active participation in the global economy. 
It  is  a  deliberate  corridor  that  we  have  developed 
to  enhance 
regional  economic  cooperation  and 
integration. We are pleased that over the years NEPAD 
has  developed  much-needed  coherence  in  addressing 
challenges  and  exploiting  opportunities 
through 
programmes  that  promote  economic  development, 
inclusive  industrial  development  and  policies  aimed 
at  improving  productive  capacities  in  Africa.  We 
have  no  doubt  that  such  coherence  will  naturally 
complement efforts to implement the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development.
that  finding 
Nonetheless,  we  are  aware 
the 
financing  for  efforts  to  implement  the  2030  Agenda 
remains  a  challenge.  Official  development  assistance 
(ODA) is therefore still a major source of financing for 
development,  particularly  for  countries  most  in  need 
and  especially  in  Africa,  but  aid  alone  is  not  enough 
to  address  development  challenges  and  ultimately 
eradicate  poverty  in  all  its  forms  and  dimensions.  In 
that  regard,  we  urge  the  international  community  to 
support Africa’s efforts to curb the illicit financial flows 
that  continue  to  hamper  the  continent’s  endeavours 
to  generate  innovative  sources  of  funding,  including 
mobilizing  domestic  resources.  Tackling  that  issue, 
and combining such efforts with international support, 
would enable Africa to reduce its reliance on ODA.
We  are  convinced  that  if  Africa  is  to  achieve  the 
Sustainable Development Goals, it needs greater foreign 
direct  investment  (FDI),  given  the  critical  role  that 
such  investment  plays  in  achieving  such  development 
objectives  as  inclusive  economic  growth.  FDI  creates 
jobs  and  therefore  helps  to  eradicate  poverty  and 
hunger.  We  would  like  to  emphasize  how  urgent  it  is 
to advance sustainable industrialization in Africa as a 
key  element  in  diversifying  economies,  adding  value, 
building  productive  capacities  and  creating  jobs,  thus 
eradicating poverty on the continent. We therefore urge 
the  international  community  and  the  relevant  United 
Nations  entities  to  scale  up  their  support  in  order  to 
ensure that Africa’s industrialization and infrastructure 
development programmes are fully implemented.
The  African  Regional  Economic  Communities 
have  an  important  role  to  play  in  the  implementation 
of NEPAD and the African Union’s Agenda 2063, and 
particularly  its  first  10-year  implementation  plan,  in 
close  collaboration  and  cooperation  with  the  African 
Union  (AU).  We  would  therefore  like  to  encourage 
African countries and the international community to 
give the Regional Economic Communities the support 
they  need  to  strengthen  their  capacity.  Undoubtedly, 
Agenda 2063, as the overarching homegrown strategy 
for  Africa’s  socioeconomic  transformation  over  the 
next  few  decades,  can  lead  Africa  towards  a  greater 
future to the benefit of her people.
In  the  light  of  the  importance  of  enhancing  the 
African  Union’s  ability  to  meet  the  challenges  of 
development,  peace  and  security,  we  would  like  to 
2/8 
16-32967
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.29
10-year 
capacity-building 
underscore  the  importance  of  fully  implementing 
its 
programme.  We 
also  welcome  the  ongoing  efforts  to  formulate  the 
programme’s successor, since it expires this year. And 
we  want  to  welcome  and  acknowledge  the  progress 
that has been made by African countries, the AU and 
subregional  organizations  in  the  areas  of  conflict 
prevention, peacemaking, peacekeeping, peacebuilding 
and development.
Lastly,  despite  major  progress  on  the  issue,  the 
African  continent  continues  to  bear  the  brunt  of  the 
problem  of  malaria.  In  that  regard,  we  must  improve 
health-care  systems  and  be  able  to  bridge  the  gaps 
that  continue  to  undermine  African  countries’  efforts 
to gain access to effective interventions and therefore 
impede efforts to control and eliminate the disease.
Mr.  Bultrikov  (Kazakhstan):  I  would  first  like 
to  join  others  in  expressing  our  deep  sorrow  at  the 
passing of the Permanent Representative of Eritrea, His 
Excellency Mr. Girma Asmerom Tesfay, and to extend 
our  sincere  condolences  and  deep  sympathy  to  his 
family and the Government and the people of Eritrea.
We take note that Africa Week 2016, on the theme 
“Strengthening  partnerships  for  inclusive  sustainable 
development,  good  governance,  peace  and  stability 
in  Africa”,  took  place  this  week  in  the  context  of  the 
first year of implementation of both the historic 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  African 
Union’s  Agenda  2063.  Today,  in  this  forum,  we  are 
also  focusing  on  Africa’s  development  priorities, 
which  cover  the  areas  of  peace,  security,  governance, 
human rights and social, economic and environmental 
development.
Africa  will  undoubtedly  be  one  of  the  principal 
engines of economic growth in the twenty-first century, 
as can be seen by its remarkable progress so far. With a 
show of unity, we need to help Africa to overcome the 
vulnerabilities that result from such progress. Regional 
and national development plans must be made to be fully 
responsive  to  both  the  framework  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) and Agenda 2063.
Kazakhstan and the African States share common 
aspirations in terms of security and stability, including 
the  eradication  of  poverty  and  economic  inequality 
and  the  promotion  of  people-centred  development  for 
durable peace. Over the past decade, foundations have 
been laid for a long-term future partnership with respect 
to investment opportunities and the broader economy, 
as well as in the political and cultural fields. Moreover, 
our two tracks of development have moved in parallel 
with  the  same  trajectory.  As  the  African  Union  (AU) 
started  to  implement  its  ambitious  Agenda  2063,  my 
country launched the Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy. Both 
are  focused  on  people-centred  development  and  have 
the potential to share many best practices and lessons 
learned.
Kazakhstan is deeply committed to Africa, which 
is a very high priority in our foreign policy due to its 
importance  as  an  emerging  continent.  At  the  United 
Nations  and  in  all  other  multilateral  regional  and 
national  forums,  my  country  has  constantly  called 
for a strengthening of AU structures and instruments, 
increasingly  deepening  thereby  its  commitment  to 
Africa. Over the past 10 years, Africa has become the 
second-fastest-growing  region  in  the  world,  with  an 
average  annual  growth  rate  of  5.1  per  cent,  which  is 
the  result  of  greater  political  stability  and  economic 
reforms.  Kazakhstan  will  therefore  support  all  of 
Africa’s efforts aimed at growth and work closely with 
the region, with the deep conviction that it should also 
develop ethically. With that in mind, we will see that, 
over time, no one is left behind.
Today,  partnerships  between  developing  nations 
are  not  a  choice,  but  are  instead  a  key  and  effective 
way  to  protect  our  common  security  and  address 
pressing development challenges. The many obstacles 
Africa faces include pockets of poverty, unemployment 
among young people and the threat of climate change, 
all  of  which  are  perils  that  many  Member  States 
will  also  not  be  able  to  avoid.  The  largest  number  of 
least  developed  countries  and  landlocked  developing 
countries  are  in  Africa  and  require  special  attention. 
Africa  therefore  needs  innovative  policymaking  and 
policy implementation, as well as a rethinking of both 
economic  development  strategies  and  the  manner  in 
which economic, social and environmental policies are 
conceived.
Kazakhstan strongly believes that we must ensure 
that Africa does not suffer from unfair and unjust global 
trade policies, tariffs and subsidies, which impede its 
ongoing  progress,  and  has  been  a  proponent  of  this 
issue at the United Nations and other forums. Like the 
rest of the world, Africa also needs peace and stability, 
which are the bedrock of development. Kazakhstan has 
therefore  introduced  a  new  development  approach  to 
eliminating the threat of war by calling for agreement 
on a 2045 global strategic initiative plan to be achieved 
16-32967
3/8
A/71/PV.29 
14/10/2016
by  the  United  Nations  centenary,  as  presented  last 
year  to  the  General  Assembly  by  our  President, 
Mr.  Nursultan  Nazarbayev  (see  A/70/PV.13).  The  aim 
of  this  plan  is  to  foster  global  development  based  on 
fair conditions, where all nations have equal access to 
global infrastructure, resources and markets, and where 
comprehensive accountability for human development 
is maintained.
Capacity-building  and  technology  transfer  are 
crucial. Kazakhstan is therefore committed to promoting 
greater South-South collaboration both in Central Asia 
and far beyond its borders. South-South collaboration 
is  the  most  vivid  example  of  mutually  beneficial 
partnership.  Developing  countries  are  turning  to  one 
another for lessons on innovative policies and schemes 
to address pressing development challenges. We stand 
ready  to  share  the  solutions  that  have  successfully 
worked  for  us  with  other  developing  nations.  Despite 
our  status  as  the  largest  landlocked  country  in  the 
world,  Kazakhstan  has  amassed  immense  experience 
in  achieving  dynamic  economic  growth,  which  has 
resulted in remarkable structural transformation.
Partnership  and  solidarity  are 
the  bases  for 
sustainable development at all levels. One of our major 
joint projects is the third-party cost-sharing agreement 
with  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP),  which  is  aimed  at  implementing the  Africa-
Kazakhstan  partnership  for  sustainable  development, 
and  which  we  believe  will  further  strengthen  our 
bonds  of  cooperation.  In  addition,  we  also  have  a 
well-established large-scale project that trains African 
professionals at Kazakh institutions of higher learning 
in the fields of agriculture, health care, technology and 
the oil and gas industries.
Kazakhstan  recognizes  that  gender  equality  and 
the empowerment of women are among the most critical 
goals for our world, and we are determined to contribute 
to  the  elimination  of  all  forms  of  discrimination 
against women across the world. With that in mind, we 
sponsored the interim report on the African Women’s 
Decade  2010-2020  and  the  report  of  Her  Excellency 
Ms.  Nkosazana  Dlamini  Zuma,  Chairperson  of  the 
African  Union  Commission,  and  the  heads  of  AU 
member States, on the Solemn Declaration on Gender 
Equality in Africa.
The  new  paradigm  and  transformational  shift 
will  require  enormous  resources.  At  the  opening 
of  Africa  Week,  my  Ambassador  reiterated  our 
President’s  initiative  that  proposes  that  each  State 
consider  allocating  a  mere  1  per  cent  of  its  defence 
budget to the UNDP Trust Fund for Sustainable Social 
Development,  Peace  and  Support  to  Countries  in 
Special Situations. In this regard, we would underline 
that on 1 November 2016, the missions of Kazakhstan 
and Belarus will organize a brainstorming session on 
cross-cutting First and Second Committee issues, under 
the  theme  “Responsible  governance  on  disarmament 
and  non-proliferation  for  progress  and  sustainable 
development”. A formal invitation will be extended to 
members  soon;  in  the  meantime,  I  would  like  to  take 
this opportunity to invite members of the Assembly to 
participate in the event.
The  harsh  and  devastating  realities  of  climate 
change  for  African  countries  are  well  known  and 
documented.  Kazakhstan  is  showcasing  renewable 
sources of energy at the international exhibition Astana 
Expo-2017  on  the  theme  of  the  energy  of  the  future, 
which  is  extremely  relevant  to  developing  countries. 
We will arrange financing for participation of a number 
of representatives from developing countries in special 
situations, including from Africa.
The foregoing are some of the numerous meaningful 
projects  that  we  have  embarked  upon  bilaterally  and 
multilaterally, but time constraints do not allow for me 
to elaborate on them further. However, I would like to 
reiterate  our  deep  commitment  to  Africa’s  peace  and 
prosperity,  as  evidenced  by  the  many  embassies  we 
have set up and the partnerships we have built with our 
African partners. Kazakhstan is proud to be one of the 
continent’s strongest collaborators and allies.
Mr. Tommo Monthe (Cameroon) (spoke in French): 
Our Eritrean colleague has passed away. At the outset, 
let me reiterate the condolences I sent yesterday to his 
Mission and staff and to the Government and the people 
of Eritrea. May his soul rest in eternal peace.
Today’s  debate  is  taking  place  at  the  conclusion 
of an intense round of activities within the framework 
of Africa Week, which began on Monday, 10 October. 
I  would  like  to  begin  by  expressing  my  country’s 
appreciation  for  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on 
Africa;  the  African  Union  (AU);  Mr.  Mayaki,  Chief 
Executive  Officer  of  the  Planning  and  Coordinating 
Agency 
for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD); and all of those who, through 
their  institutions,  work  tirelessly  for  the  development 
of Africa.
the  New  Partnership 
for 
4/8 
16-32967
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.29
After  the  so-called  lost  decade  of  the  eighties, 
marked  by  deep  pessimism,  our  continent  has  once 
again  found  its  strength  and  vigour.  Africa  is  on  the 
move  —  towards  the  horizon  of  2063,  where  it  will 
be  a  peaceful,  strong  and  prosperous  Africa  that  is  a 
major  player  in  international  relations;  on  course  to 
implementing the strategic orientations leading to that 
horizon; and in pursuit of specific goals it has set based 
on its own perspective and experiences. Our continent 
hopes its bilateral and multilateral partners will support 
it on this path, working actively for and with it.
On the political level, the cessation of hostilities is 
on the horizon for 2020, with peace, security, the fight 
against  terrorists  such  as  the  Boko  Haram  sect,  good 
governance, deepened democratic roots and the rule of 
law,  as  well  as  respect  for  human  rights  —  are  some 
of the goals that we have set and that we are actively 
pursuing with strong political will in countries on the 
continent, despite the difficulties that can crop up. It is 
ancient  African  cultural  tradition  not  to  leave  anyone 
behind. My country, Cameroon, has taken determined 
steps along this path.
At  the  economic  and  social  levels,  Cameroon, 
which is a member of the NEPAD Heads of State and 
Government Implementation Committee, draws upon the 
major programmes on infrastructure, industrialization, 
energy,  agriculture,  health,  research,  innovation  and 
technology — all of which NEPAD and Africa have put 
at the very centre of Africa’s transformation.
With  regard  to  infrastructure,  in  January  the 
African Heads of State approved the strategy to establish 
the  Dakar  Agenda  for  Action,  dedicated  to  actions  to 
finance infrastructure in Africa, through mechanisms 
to  provide  services  and  programmes  for  development 
infrastructure  in  Africa.  These  various  projects  and 
programmes  are  intended  to  strengthen  support  for 
public-private partnerships on the continent, as well as 
for  other  development  players,  so  as  to  guarantee  the 
mobilization  of  financing  and  investments  in  the  16 
priority regional infrastructure projects.
With  respect  to  industrialization,  my  delegation 
believes  that  it  is  indispensable  to  the  structural 
transformations  of  African  economies 
to  ensure 
that  these  transformations  produce  added  value  and 
economic diversification. In the context of globalization 
and  economic  change,  industrialization  is  no  doubt 
the  means  to  enable  our  continent  to  create  inclusive 
and  sustainable  economic  growth  that  will  generate 
productive jobs to free millions of people from poverty. 
That is why the implementation of the Action Plan for 
Accelerated Industrial Development of Africa, adopted 
in March 2011, constitutes, in our opinion, an essential 
element for Africa’s transformation.
At  the  level  of  institutions  and  the  national 
infrastructure  responsible  for  implementing  NEPAD, 
to which my country subscribes, my Government has 
adopted  measures  to  integrate  NEPAD  priorities  into 
our national development programmes. For example, I 
would cite the adoption, in accordance with the detailed 
agricultural development programme in Africa, of our 
national  agricultural  investment  plan,  the  purpose  of 
which is to invest more than $6 billion for development 
in  the  agricultural  sector  for  the  2014-2020  period. 
Likewise,  in  the  area  of  health,  Cameroon  has  been 
involved  in  a  project  to  train  professional  nurses  and 
midwives  in  Africa  with  a  view  to  improving  the 
qualifications  of  nurses  and  midwives  and  to  bring 
them up to university and professional masters levels. 
In considering the domains of science, technology and 
innovation, I would mention the role my country plays 
within the framework of the consolidated action plan, 
which includes initiatives to improve African indicators 
for science, technology and innovation, fields in which 
Cameroon is a pioneer.
Before I turn to the Roll Back Malaria Partnership, 
I  would  like  to  talk  about  climate  change.  On  that 
matter, the massive forested areas of Central Africa, the 
second lung of the planet, the drying up of Lake Chad 
and  desertification  deserve  all  the  attention  they  can 
get from the international community. The same holds 
true for the seas and oceans and space, including outer 
space. In these areas, Africa has developed programmes 
and projects that must be supported, for example, the 
project related to our common position on the seas and 
oceans and the pan-African space project.
(spoke in English)
With respect to the Roll Back Malaria Partnership, 
the Government of Cameroon specially commends the 
substantial  contribution  made  by  the  Global  Fund  to 
Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which continues 
to provide two thirds of the international contributions 
in the fight against malaria. Cameroon is delighted with 
the  admission  of  Cameroon  to  Round  9  of  financing 
and the receipt of a 64 billion CFA francs as a grant in 
the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. 
From 2008 to 2013, malaria-related sickness decreased 
16-32967
5/8
A/71/PV.29 
14/10/2016
that  overwhelming 
among pregnant women, children under the age of 5 and 
the general population. These reductions were mainly 
the result of malaria-control initiatives launched in the 
country  and  fully  or  partially  funded  by  the  Global 
Fund partnership.
Faced  with 
the 
Government  of  Cameroon  welcomes  the  development 
of  the  global  technical  strategy  for  malaria  2016-
2030  adopted  by  the  World  Health  Assembly  in  May 
2015,  which  provided  a  technical  framework  for  all 
epidemic  countries  as  they  work  towards  controlling 
and  eliminating  malaria.  The  grants  provided  for 
combating malaria promote access to a greater level of 
care in health facilities and at home.
reality, 
knocking  out  malaria,  which  is  considered  one  of  the 
most fatal diseases on the African continent.
the  media, 
including 
The  campaign 
features  an  awareness-raising 
programme  enlisting 
local 
radio  and  television  artists,  telephone  marketers  and 
celebrities,  to  get  out  the  message.  The  campaign  is 
expected to achieve the objective of “one household, one 
net”, which would exceed the current level of coverage, 
which  is  19  per  cent.  The  campaign  was  expected  to 
accelerate  outcomes  and  scale  up  the  malaria-control 
programme, in order to eradicate malaria at the national 
level  in  the  period  2011-2015  and  significantly  affect 
morbidity and mortality rates by the end of 2015.
(spoke in French)
Today, an adult can be treated properly for a malaria 
attack  for  less  than  300  CFA  francs,  or  €0.50.  The 
improvement of the national strategy for the treatment 
of malaria has involved the following recommendations 
from  the  World  Health  Organization,  namely,  the 
confirmation  of  stocks  of  artemisinin  combination 
therapy  (ACT)  protocol  to  avoid  an  imbalance  in 
inventory  management  and  errors  in  forecasts  with 
a  view  to  facilitating  a  rapid  response.  Community 
volunteers have been trained since 2008 for distributing 
ACT  to  homes  and,  through  the  support  of  the  Fund, 
some  800,000  rapid  diagnostic  tests  were  distributed 
throughout the country, providing a reliable diagnostic 
result in the shortest time possible.
In  the  area  of  prevention,  vector  control  was 
strengthened.  The  launch  in  August  2011  of  the 
campaign, known as Knock Out Malaria, involved the 
free distribution of approximately 9 million mosquito 
nets  in  all  regions  of  the  country.  The  Government 
of  Cameroon  and  the  Global  Fund  reaffirmed  their 
partnership by signing a new malaria grant agreement 
in the amount of €77 million on 18 February 2015. The 
grant will fund the distribution of 15.8 million mosquito 
nets, including a mass-distribution campaign that will 
strive to achieve universal coverage in Cameroon.
I will conclude with the following remarks. As the 
President of my country, His Excellency Mr. Paul Biya, 
underscored  from  this  rostrum  on  23  September  (see 
A/71/PV.14), while the task of achieving the sustainable 
development  of  Africa  is  complex  and  difficult,  it  is 
also  exhilarating.  Numerous  statements  have  already 
been  made  on  this  topic.  Many  plans  of  action  have 
been adopted. What is lacking, however, is the active 
implementation of such projects, statements and plans 
of action. What is missing is the determined action and 
the will to realize on the ground what we have jointly 
decided, sometimes decades ago.
(spoke in English)
Ultimately,  we  shall  match  our  words  with  our 
deeds.
Mr.  Chinyonga  (Zambia):  I  would  like  to  begin 
by  conveying  my  country’s  condolences  upon  the 
death of the Permanent Representative of Eritrea, His 
Excellency Mr. Girma Asmerom Tesfay.
I  would  also  like  to  associate  my  statement  with 
those made by the representative of Thailand on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China and by the representative 
of the Niger on behalf of the Group of African States 
(see A/71/PV.28).
In  that  regard,  in  June  2016,  12  million  treated 
mosquito  nets  with  a  lifespan  of  two  years  were 
distributed.  The  distribution  of  these  long-lasting 
treated  mosquito  nets  is  part  of  a  campaign  to  reach 
out and maintain universal coverage in the fight against 
malaria 
interventions 
from  2015  to  2017.  The  joint  effort  of  the  Cameroon 
Government and its international partners is aimed at 
sustainable-impact 
through 
My  delegation  remains  convinced 
trade, 
infrastructure  development,  a  conflict-free  Africa, 
gender  equality,  women’s  empowerment,  health  care 
and  education  remain  key  among  Africa’s  priority 
development areas.
that 
We  reiterate  the  importance  of  the  Programme 
for  Infrastructure  Development  in  Africa,  which  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD) 
6/8 
16-32967
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.29
developed, focusing on transformative regional projects. 
Out  of  the  priority  regional  infrastructure  projects 
identified,  Zambia  is  likely  to  benefit  directly  from 
those that are located or cross its borders, including a 
project for a 614-kilometre road extending from Serenje 
information-and-communications-
to  Nakonde,  an 
technology 
terrestrial  fibre-optic  cable  extending 
from  Lusaka  to  the  capital  of  Malawi,  Lilongwe,  the 
Zambia-Tanzania-Kenya 
line  and  a 
hydropower project.
transmission 
through 
the 
implementation  of 
incorporated 
remains  committed 
Furthermore,  Zambia 
to 
enhancing  agriculture  and  food  security.  To  this 
end,  my  country  has 
the  NEPAD 
Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme 
the 
national  agriculture  investment  plan  for  the  period 
from  2014  to  2018,  which  advocates  for  the  poor  and 
emphasizes  agriculturally  led  economic  development. 
Consequently,  over  3  million  farmers  in  Zambia  are 
expected  to  benefit  from  17  different  categories  of 
climate-smart technologies and practices. I am further 
pleased to report that Zambia developed a compendium 
of climate-oriented agriculture technologies in all three 
of  its  agro-ecological  regions,  which  was  facilitated 
through the support from the NEPAD Climate Change 
Fund,  for  mainstreaming  climate-smart  agriculture 
into the national agriculture-investment plan.
With  regard  to  the  achieving  healthier  lives, 
Zambia  will  give  priority  to  disease  prevention  and 
the  promotion  of  healthy  lifestyles,  as  well  as  the 
strengthening of immunization programmes, adopting 
the target of covering every child in every part of the 
country.  Zambia  is  also  giving  priority  to  working 
towards  reducing  malaria-related  deaths  countrywide 
and achieving a malaria-free Zambia by 2020. Thus far, 
the prevalence of malaria and deaths from the disease 
have steadily decreased, culminating in an impressive 
55 per cent reduction in all cases of child mortality.
In order to sustain that progress in moving towards 
the 2020 target, we need to step up the implementation 
of  the  malaria-elimination  strategy.  Zambia  is  also 
proactively  strengthening  its  health  systems  through 
the  implementation  of  the  Zambia  health-systems 
improvement project, which is being piloted in 5 of the 
10 provinces across the country. It is envisioned that the 
lessons to be learned from the project will be a basis for 
future improvements to our health system.
Zambia is committed to promoting human-capital 
development, as it remains a key priority for Africa. To 
this end, Zambia will continue to improve the teaching 
of  science  and  mathematics,  which  is  critical  to 
attaining  improvements  in  technology  and  innovation 
for enhanced industrialization and job creation. Zambia 
will further continue to reduce the mismatch between 
skills development and the needs of the labour market.
With  respect  to  national  interventions  on  gender 
equality  and  women’s  empowerment,  Zambia  enacted 
the  Gender  Equity  and  Equality  Act  of  2015,  which 
fully  incorporated  into  our  domestic  legislation  the 
major international and regional instruments, including 
the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of 
Discrimination  against  Women,  the  Protocol  to  the 
African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights on the 
Rights of Women in Africa, and the Southern African 
Development Community (SADC) Protocol on Gender 
and Development. The Act also seeks to attain gender 
equity and equality through the integration of women 
and men in national development processes.
The financing for the development conference held 
in  Addis  Ababa  in  July  2015  took  place  at  a  critical 
time in the consideration of the global financing system 
needed to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals 
by 2030. Zambia therefore welcomes the conclusion of 
a  tripartite  agreement  between  the  NEPAD  Agency, 
the  World  Bank  and  the  SADC  Secretariat,  with  the 
aim  of  providing  financial  and  technical  support  for 
implementing SADC regional programmes.
In conclusion, I wish to mention that my delegation 
notes  that  the  process  of  integrating  NEPAD  into  the 
African Union structures and processes has been slow, 
despite  the  work  of  the  African  Union  Commission 
and  the  NEPAD  Agency  to  this  end.  It  is  our  view 
that international support would be useful to facilitate 
establishing  the  timelines  for  concluding  the  matter.
Notwithstanding  all 
fully 
committed to ensuring that the priority areas of energy, 
industrialization,  intraregional  trade,  food  security, 
health care, education, gender equality and adaptation 
to climate change are fast-tracked under NEPAD.
this,  Zambia 
remains 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on these items.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration  of  agenda  item  62  and  its  sub-items  (a) 
and (b) and agenda item 12.
16-32967
7/8
A/71/PV.29 
14/10/2016
Agenda item 115 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(h) Appointment of members of the Joint 
Inspection Unit
Note by the Secretary-General (A/71/396)
The Acting President: As indicated in document 
A/71/396,  which  the  General  Assembly  has  before  it, 
Inspector George Bartsiotas (United States of America) 
was appointed by the General Assembly on 26 July 2012 
for a five-year term of office, beginning on 1 January 
2013 and expiring on 31 December 2017. On 14 March 
2016,  George  Bartsiotas  submitted  his  resignation, 
effective 30 September 2016, to the Chair of the Joint 
Inspection Unit, in accordance with article 4, paragraph 
3, of the statute of the Joint Inspection Unit.
In  accordance  with  article  4,  paragraph  5,  of  the 
statute,  the  Chair  of  the  Unit  notified  the  Secretary-
General of the vacancy. As a result of the resignation, 
the General Assembly is required, during the seventy-
first  session,  to  appoint  a  member  to  fill  the  vacancy 
in the Joint Inspection Unit. It is further stated in the 
note  by  the  Secretary-General  that,  in  accordance 
with article 4, paragraph 2, of the statute of the Joint 
Inspection  Unit,  the  person  so  appointed  will  hold 
office for the remainder of that term, provided that it 
is not less than three years. Otherwise, the duration of 
the appointment is to be for a full term. In this regard, 
and in order for consultations to be held, as stipulated 
in article 3, the Assembly may wish to consider filling 
the vacancy for a term of office beginning on 1 January 
2017 and expiring on 31 December 2021.
In this connection, may I take it that it is the wish 
of the General Assembly to fill this vacancy for a term 
of office beginning on 1 January 2017 and expiring on 
31 December 2021?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  As  also  indicated  in 
document  A/71/396,  in  accordance  with  article  3, 
paragraph 1, of the statute of the Joint Inspection Unit, 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  shall  consult 
with  Member  States  to  draw  up  a  list  of  countries, 
in  this  case,  one  country,  which  would  be  requested 
to  propose  a  candidate  for  appointment  to  the  Joint 
Inspection Unit.
As  further  indicated  in  paragraph  3  of  document 
A/71/396,  the  General  Assembly,  by  its  resolution 
61/238, of 22 December 2006, decided that, beginning 
on  1  January  2008,  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  when  drawing  up  a  list  of  countries,  in 
accordance  with  article  3,  paragraph  1,  of  the  statute 
of  the  Unit,  will  invite  Member  States  to  submit 
the  names  of  the  countries  and  their  respective 
candidates  simultaneously,  on  the  understanding  that 
the candidates submitted were the candidates that the 
respective  Member  States  intended  to  propose,  to  the 
extent  possible,  for  appointment  by  the  Assembly,  in 
accordance with article 3, paragraph 2, of the statute of 
the Joint Inspection Unit.
After holding the necessary consultations, I should 
like to communicate to the Assembly the information 
received  from  the  Chair  of  the  Group  of  Western 
European and other States that the Group has endorsed 
the  United  States  of  America  to  propose  a  candidate 
for the vacancy from among the Western European and 
other  States.  In  accordance  with  article  3,  paragraph 
1, of the statute of the Joint Inspection Unit and with 
resolution 61/238, the United States of America will be 
requested  to  submit  the  name  of  a  candidate  and  the 
curriculum vitae highlighting the candidate’s relevant 
qualifications for the task.
I would like to remind members that, in accordance 
with  Assembly  resolution  59/267,  of  23  December 
2004, the candidates should have experience in at least 
one of the following fields: oversight, audit, inspection, 
investigation,  evaluation,  finance,  project  evaluation, 
programme evaluation, human-resources management, 
management,  public  administration,  monitoring  and/
or  programme  performance,  as  well  as  knowledge  of 
the United Nations system and its role in international 
relations.
After  holding 
the  appropriate  consultations 
described  in  article  3,  paragraph  2,  of  the  statute  of 
the Joint Inspection Unit, including consultations with 
the President of the Economic and Social Council and 
with the Secretary-General in his capacity as Chair of 
the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for 
Coordination, I will submit the name of the candidate 
to the Assembly for appointment.
As indicated in the schedule of the plenary meetings 
contained  in  document  A/INF/71/3,  delegations  are 
reminded  that  the  appointment  of  the  members  of 
the  Joint  Inspection  Unit  has  been  scheduled  for  the 
morning of Thursday, 10 November.
We  have 
consideration of sub-item (h) of agenda item 115.
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of  our 
The meeting rose at 4 p.m.
8/8 
16-32967
