United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
35th plenary meeting
Thursday, 27 October 2016, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.35
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Zamora Rivas 
(El Salvador), Vice-President, took the Chair.
and  security  and  to  the  development  of  international 
law. 
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 70 (continued)
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/71/4)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/339)
Ms.  Hioureas  (Cyprus):  It  is  a  particular  honour 
and pleasure for the Republic of Cyprus to address the 
General  Assembly  on  its  consideration  of  the  report 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  (A/71/4).  We  are 
grateful  to  President  Judge  Ronny  Abraham  for  his 
introduction of the report and for his insightful remarks 
on  the  work  and  functioning  of  the  Court  (see  A/71/
PV.34). 
Our debate this year has special significance as we 
mark the seventieth anniversary of the establishment of 
the  Court.  We  welcome  the  commemorative  activities 
and initiatives outlined in its report. On this occasion 
we wish to commend the Court on its significant work 
as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations 
and to pay tribute to past and present members of the 
Court who have served and who serve the Court with 
dedication  and  distinction.  Since  its  creation  in  1946, 
the Court has heard more than 160 cases and delivered 
121  judgments  and  27  advisory  opinions,  which  have 
contributed  significantly  to  the  maintenance  of  peace 
During  the  period  under  review,  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  experienced  a  high  level  of  judicial 
activity,  with  pending  contentious  cases  involving 
States  from  all  continents.  That  diverse  geographical 
distribution of cases illustrates the universal character 
of  the  jurisdiction  of  the  principal  judicial  organ  of 
the United Nations. The cases submitted to the Court 
involve  a  wide  variety  of  subject  matters,  including 
territorial  and  maritime  disputes,  the  unlawful  use  of 
force,  interference  in  the  domestic  affairs  of  States, 
violations  of  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty, 
economic 
international  humanitarian  and 
human rights law, genocide, environmental damage and 
conservation of living resources, immunities of States 
and their officials, and interpretation and application of 
international treaties and conventions. 
rights, 
Such  diversity  of  subjects  illustrates  the  general 
character of the jurisdiction of the International Court 
of Justice. The consistently high workload demonstrates 
the  confidence  placed  in  the  Court  and  the  respect 
shown  to  it  by  States.  It  is  imperative  that  the  Court 
continue  to  modernize  its  work  as  a  means  to  ensure 
that its work is carried out as expeditiously as possible 
and that it has the necessary means and resources that 
will  continue  to  ensure  its  integrity,  impartiality  and 
independence.
As  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations, the International Court of Justice does work of 
utmost importance to the promotion of the rule of law, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-34742 (E)
*1634742*
A/71/PV.35 
27/10/2016
friendly relations among States and international peace 
and security. The Court’s jurisdiction over disputes has 
influenced  and  shaped  international  law  through  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes. 
With trust in the Court’s capacity to deliver justice, 
in  2002  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  made  a  declaration 
for  recognizing  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court. 
To date, we are one of only 72 countries in the world 
to have done so. We call upon States to recognize the 
jurisdiction of the Court in accordance with Article 36 of 
the Statute of the International Court of Justice, thereby 
promoting  and  facilitating  the  ability  of  the  Court  to 
maintain  and  promote  the  rule  of  law  throughout  the 
world.
Mr. Xu Hong (China) (spoke in Chinese): It gives me 
great pleasure to speak under the agenda item “Report 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice”.  At  the  outset, 
please allow me, on behalf of the Chinese delegation, 
to express my appreciation to President Abraham of the 
International Court of Justice for his presentation (see 
A/71/PV.34).  My  thanks  also  go  to  all  the  judges  and 
staff of the Court for their hard work over the past year.
This  year  marks  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  inaugural  sitting  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice. Over the past 70 years, the Court, in faithfully 
implementing  its  mandate  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter of the United Nations and its own Statute, has 
delivered  over  120  judgments  and  issued  close  to  30 
advisory opinions. It has played an important role in the 
interpretation, application and development of the rules 
of  international  law  and  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international disputes, thus making its due contribution 
to the maintenance of international peace and security.  
The performance of the Court may not be perfect, but 
undoubtedly, as one of the six principal organs and the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations, the Court 
has authority and influence that cannot be replaced or 
matched by any other international judicial body.
Reviewing  the  past,  we  can  see  that  it  is  no 
coincidence  that  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
has  been  successful  in  exercising  its  jurisdiction.  It 
has  always  acted  prudently  and  has  strictly  abided 
by the principle of the consent of States. The Court’s 
judges, who represent major cultures and the principal 
legal  systems  of  the  world,  have  maintained  a  high 
level  of  professionalism,  a  responsible  attitude  and  a 
balanced  judicial  approach.  The  judges  and  internal 
administrative organs, such as the Registry, have always 
kept  their  independence  and  been  free  from  external 
interference and influence by reporting to the General 
Assembly and the Security Council periodically and by 
listening to the views and comments of Member States. 
The Court has, to a certain extent, made it possible for 
the international community to exercise oversight of the 
Court’s work. All the above have laid a solid foundation 
for  the  Court  to  carry  out  its  high-quality  judicial 
activities on the basis of objectivity and fairness.
After  a  journey  of  70  years,  the  International 
Court of Justice now stands at a new starting point. Its 
workload has been rising, a fact that reflects the trust and 
expectation of the international community, especially 
disputing  parties.  The  international  community  and 
the  United  Nations  should  continue  to  provide  strong 
support  to  the  Court  for  it  to  implement  its  mandate, 
and  such  support  should  be  in  response  to  the  appeal 
and the concerns of the Court. That includes ensuring 
human and financial resources at a level commensurate 
with its responsibilities and status.
As  a  responsible  member  of  the  international 
community,  China  has  always  actively  promoted 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  through  friendly 
consultations.  We  will  continue  to  safeguard  the 
international order, which is based on the purposes and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations, and to 
maintain and promote the rule of law at the international 
level.  We  are  confident  that  an  international  Court 
that  faithfully  carries  out  its  mandate  according  to 
the Charter and its own Statute will continue to be the 
model and guide for other international judicial bodies, 
and  will  further  contribute  to  the  peaceful  settlement 
of disputes and the maintenance of international peace 
and security.
Mr. Elshenawy (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): At the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Ronny  Abraham, 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  for 
presenting the report of the Court (A/71/4) on its work 
and activities from 1 August 2015 to 31 July 2016 (see 
A/71/PV.34).
We  align  ourselves  with  the  statements  delivered 
respectively by the representatives of Iran on behalf of 
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and of South 
Africa  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States  (see 
A/71/PV.34).
Egypt  strongly  believes  in  the  important  role  of 
the International Court of Justice as the main judicial 
organ of the United Nations. We believe that since the 
2/13 
16-34742
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.35
inception of the Court in June 1945 and the beginning 
of  its  activities  in  April  1946,  the  legal  and  political 
landscape  has  changed.  That  has  reaffirmed  the  role 
of  the  Court  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  conflicts 
among countries, as set out in the Charter of the United 
Nations,  and  in  advancing  and  strengthening  the  rule 
of law. 
The  number  of  cases  before  the  Court  and  the 
number of advisory opinions issued by it have increased. 
Currently,  there  are  diverse  cases  before  it,  including 
from countries on all continents. That underscores the 
universal aspect of the Court and the absolute trust in it 
and its judges, who are all respected and valued by the 
international community. That is why we need to respect 
and implement its decisions and advisory opinions.
Nevertheless, and at a time when we are witnessing 
an increase in the number of cases before the Court, in 
the past year the Court did not receive any request for an 
advisory opinion, in accordance with Article 96 of the 
Charter of the United Nations. In that regard, we would 
like  to  stress  how  important  it  is  to  benefit  from  the 
role played by the Court and its advisory opinions, as 
set out in the Charter, especially on issues that include 
legal  disputes.  We  encourage  countries  to  accept  the 
mandate of the Court, in accordance with Article 36 of 
its Statute, as requested by the General Assembly in its 
resolution 70/118, on the rule of law at the national and 
international levels.
take 
into  consideration 
Egypt believes that it is important for the General 
Assembly to provide the financial resources the Court 
needs  without  making  any  reduction,  so  that  it  can 
deliver its message in the best possible way, as the main 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  The  Assembly 
must 
the  unprecedented 
level  of  activities  and  that  Member  States  have 
repeatedly  stressed  the  need  to  provide  the  requisite 
financial  resources  to  the  Court  for  its  independent 
administration.The delegation of Egypt will make sure 
that this will be realized through the Fifth Committee of 
the General Assembly. To assist countries to settle their 
disputes through the International Court of Justice, we 
urge  countries,  especially  those  who  can  afford  to  do 
so, to provide financial contributions to the trust fund 
that was established by the Secretary-General in 1989 
for that purpose.
In conclusion, Egypt again thanks the International 
Court of Justice and its President, and emphasizes that 
it will continue to support the Court.
Mr.  Elias-Fatile  (Nigeria):  I  thank  you,  SIr,  for 
convening  this  important  meeting  to  consider  the 
report  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  (A/71/4). 
Nigeria is grateful to the President of the Court, Judge 
Ronny  Abraham,  for  his  comprehensive  briefing  and 
insightful  remarks  earlier  this  morning  (see  A/71/
PV.34).  We  congratulate  the  Court  on  the  celebration 
of the seventieth anniversary of its inaugural sitting on 
20 April.
My delegation aligns itself with the statement made 
by the representative of South Africa on behalf of the 
Group of African States (see A/71/PV.34).
The  International  Court  of  Justice  is  an  integral 
part  of  the  mechanisms  of  the  United  Nations  for  the 
promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  and  international  peace 
and security through the administration of international 
justice. There is no gainsaying the fact that the Court has 
made tremendous contributions to the promotion of and 
respect for the rule of law at the international level. In 
addition, over the years, the Court has continued to play 
a  vital  role  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security  through  its  rulings  and  judicial  notices. 
It  has  also  contributed  significantly  to  the  corpus  of 
international  jurisprudence.  It  is  remarkable  that  the 
Court’s judgments, judicial opinions and notices have 
had  salutary  effects  on  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security in all regions of the world.
We  have  studiously  reviewed  the  Court’s  report 
for the period 1 August 2015 to 31 July 2016. We have 
taken note of its judicial and other activities during the 
reporting  period,  and  we  commend  the  Court  for  the 
measures  that  it  has  taken  in  recent  years  to  enhance 
its  efficiency,  which  has  facilitated  the  effective 
management  of  its  steadily  increasing  workload.  In 
particular,  we  noted  that,  during  the  period  under 
review, the Court experienced a high level of judicial 
activity, which included rulings on two cases between 
Costa  Rica  and  Nicaragua,  public  hearings  and  other 
pending  contentious  cases  involving  States  from  all 
continents — six from the Americas, five from Africa, 
four  from  Europe,  three  from  Asia  and  one  from 
Oceania. The diverse geographical distribution of those 
cases is truly illustrative of the universal character of 
the jurisdiction of the Court.
Furthermore,  it  is  noteworthy  that  the  cases 
submitted  to  the  Court  involve  a  wide  variety  of 
subject  matters,  including  territorial  and  maritime 
disputes,  the  unlawful  use  of  force,  interference 
16-34742
3/13
A/71/PV.35 
27/10/2016
in 
the  domestic  affairs  of  States,  violations  of 
territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty,  economic  rights, 
international  humanitarian  and  human  rights  law, 
genocide, environmental damage and the conservation 
of living resources, the immunities of States and their 
representatives, and the interpretation and application 
of international treaties and conventions. 
Significantly,  we  also  noted  in  the  report  that 
the  cases  that  States  have  entrusted  to  the  Court  for 
settlement are growing in factual and legal complexity. 
Indeed,  the  diversity  of  those  issues  illustrates  the 
general  character  of  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  and 
attests  to  the  increasing  relevance  of  the  Court,  both 
as  a  principal  organ  of  the  United  Nations  and  as  an 
instrument for the peaceful settlement of disputes.
We  note  with  appreciation  that  the  Court  has 
continued  to  publicize  its  decisions  through  modern 
information  and  communications 
technology.  We 
also  welcome  the  Court’s  ongoing  engagement  with 
the  public.  Those  efforts  serve  to  promote  greater 
transparency in its activities. Nevertheless, we observed 
that,  during  the  period  under  review,  no  request  for 
an  advisory  opinion  was  submitted  to  the  Court.  The 
importance  of  advisory  opinions  on  legal  questions 
referred  to  the  Court  in  the  pursuit  of  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  cannot  be  overemphasized.  We 
therefore encourage more use of the Court for advisory 
opinions on sundry issues.
Under  the  provision  of  Article  36,  paragraphs  2 
and 5, of the Statute of the Court, States are expected 
to  make  declarations  recognizing  the  compulsory 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  Nigeria  notes  with  concern 
that,  of  the  193  Member  States,  only  72  have  so  far 
made  declarations  recognizing  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court. That represents less than half of the membership 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  would  like  to  see  more 
countries  accept  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court,  in  consonance  with  resolution  69/123.  We 
encourage Member States that have yet to subscribe to 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court to endeavour 
to do so. That, we believe, would further strengthen the 
Court’s role and ability to promote international justice 
and the peaceful settlement of disputes.
I  would  like  to  assure  the  Assembly  that  Nigeria 
will  continue  to  abide  by  its  commitments  to  the 
promotion  of  international  justice  and  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  as  a  State  party  to  the  Statute 
of the International Court of Justice. Having made the 
declaration recognizing the jurisdiction of the Court as 
compulsory, our acceptance of the ruling of the Court 
on the border dispute between Nigeria and Cameroon 
demonstrates  our  conviction  and  commitment  to  the 
precepts  and  principle  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice. We shall continue to support the Court, where 
three illustrious Nigerians had served meritoriously as 
judges. Therefore, we encourage all Member States to 
continue  to  offer  their  support  to  the  activities  of  the 
Court  to  promote  international  justice  and  the  rule 
of law.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke in Spanish): The Plurinational State of Bolivia 
has taken note of the report of the International Court 
of Justice for the period 1 August 2015 to 31 July 2016 
(A/71/4).  We  would  also  like  to  thank  the  President 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge  Ronny 
Abraham, for his briefing to the Assembly (see A/71/
PV.34).
As  a  peaceful  nation,  Bolivia  complies  with  the 
criteria enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations 
and adheres to the principles of the International Court of 
Justice, its jurisdiction and its call for ongoing dialogue 
between neighbouring nations and brothers. The Court, 
its purposes and principles provide new opportunities 
to  resolve  our  differences.  The  Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia  is  convinced  that  the  International  Court  of 
Justice constitutes one of the best paths to the peaceful 
resolution  of  disputes  between  States.  Bolivia  urges 
all  States  to  adhere  in  good  faith  to  its  jurisdiction 
and  its  decisions,  in  keeping  with  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.
This year is of particular interest, given the increase 
in the number of cases submitted to and resolved by the 
Court  on  a  diversity  of  matters,  which  is  a  reflection 
of  the  general  nature  of  the  competence  of  the  main 
judicial body of the United Nations, as well as of the 
fact  that  States  put  their  trust  in  it.  We  take  note  of 
the effectiveness and efficiency of the Court’s efforts 
to  make  use  of  new  technologies.  They  contribute  to 
better performance, given the limited time frames and 
the complex cases before it.
Without  a  doubt,  it  is  the  quality  of  the  Court’s 
rulings,  its  proven  independence  and  its  adherence 
to  international  law,  to  the  evidence  presented  and  to 
judicial reasoning that represent the main contribution 
of great value to the international community of nations. 
The positive evaluation of the Court by the Assembly 
4/13 
16-34742
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.35
corresponds to the trust that we, the States, also place 
in it for fair procedures and rulings that endure through 
time.  Humankind  and  our  countries  have  taken  a 
qualitative,  extraordinary  leap  in  maintaining  peace, 
strengthening  the  rule  of  law,  bolstering  respect  for 
basic  rights  and  improving  the  quality  of  life  on  our 
planet  by  establishing  and  supporting  the  Court.  Its 
decisions and advisory opinions over the past 71 years 
are  convincingtestimony  to  its  peaceful  and  practical 
nature and its ability to peacefully resolve conflicts.
Bolivia wishes to highlight that the Court still has  
a long way to go on its path towards great achievements. 
Peoples and States bring cases to The Hague with hope 
for  justice  and  reparations,  and  for  reasonable  and 
fitting agreements, as they search for opportunities for 
all parties — opportunities that war, violence and their 
consequences deny the peoples The International Court 
of  Justice  represents,  then,  a  space  of  hope  for  peace 
and justice. 
Bolivia  understands  the  scope  of  the  budgetary 
requirements presented in the Court’s report and will 
support the necessary decisions to meet those needs.
Bolivia agrees with the Court in two cases, one as 
an applicant and the other as a respondent, both against 
the Republic of Chile. We accept and respect the Court’s 
jurisdiction and trust that its decisions will contribute 
to  positively  resolving  the  disputes  that  separate  our 
two  neighbouring  and  brother  nations.  As  President 
Evo Morales said, Bolivia once again declares that there 
is only one way to resolve pending issues, and that is 
through negotiations and peaceful means as established 
by international law, 
Lastly,  Bolivia  reaffirms  its  inclination  towards 
the  peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts  and  reiterates  its 
adherence to the principles of international law and the 
principles set forth in the Charter of the United Nations. 
It is not force that brings about law. It is the reason of 
the law that repairs injustices.
Mr.  Gafoor  (Singapore):  My  delegation  would 
like to thank the International Court of Justice for its 
detailed  report  on  its  work  (A/71/4).  The  Court  has 
indeed had a very busy and productive year. We would 
also  like  to  extend  our  warm  congratulations  to  the 
Court on the occasion of the seventieth anniversary of 
its inaugural sitting. We have every confidence that the 
Court will continue to grow from strength to strength.
importance 
to 
Singapore  attaches  great 
the 
principle of the rule of law at both the national and the 
international levels. For small States like Singapore, the 
principle of the rule of law is not an academic notion. It 
is a critical precondition for our survival and continued 
existence as independent, sovereign States. 
An integral and indivisible part of the rule of law 
is the settlement of international disputes by peaceful 
means.  The  Court  plays  a  crucial  role  in  that  regard 
by  providing  an  effective,  established  and  objective 
mechanism  for  States  to  resolve  their  disputes  in 
accordance  with  international  law.  The  Court’s  role 
in  resolving  disputes  and  maintaining  international 
peace  and  stability  cannot  be  overemphasized.  The 
International Court of Justice is the only international 
court of universal character with general jurisdiction. 
The Court therefore occupies a special position within 
the  international  community,  from  which  it  is  well 
placed to uphold and promote the rule of law. Singapore 
has been and will continue to be supportive of the Court.
Singapore  notes  that  the  Court’s  workload  has 
grown considerably over the past 20 years and that the 
number of cases brought before it has been increasing. 
The  Court  has  done  its  best  to  meet  that  challenge 
through  the  use  of  new  technologies,  as  well  as  by 
setting  a  highly  demanding  schedule  of  hearings  and 
deliberations.  We  commend  the  Court  on  the  level  of 
commitment and professionalism with which the Court, 
its  judges  and  the  Registry  discharge  their  functions. 
We  also  express  our  appreciation  for  their  dedicated 
service to the global community.
Singapore  also  notes  the  concerns  raised  by  the 
Court in its report regarding the final budget approved 
by the General Assembly for the biennium 2016-2017. 
As  the  principal  judicial  organ  in  the  United  Nations 
system  and  one  that  has  discharged  its  function 
responsibly,  the  Court  should,  inour  view,  enjoy  the 
full support of Member States. It is therefore vital that 
Member States demonstrate their support by ensuring 
that the Court is given adequate resources to discharge 
its role efficiently and effectively.
Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  Singapore  has 
always supported and will continue to support the work 
of  the  Court.  We  will  also  continue  to  monitor  with 
great interest every decision and opinion of the Court. 
We wish the Court every success in the coming year.
Mr.  Plasai  (Thailand)  (spoke  in  French):  My 
delegation  would  like  to  express  its  appreciation  to 
16-34742
5/13
A/71/PV.35 
27/10/2016
Judge Abraham for his able leadership as the President 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  We  also  wish 
to  thank  him  for  his  detailed  report  on  the  Court’s 
activities of the past year (see A/71/PV.34). 
The Court remains highly active, with 14 pending 
cases on its docket. Over the period under consideration, 
the Court has handed down 11 orders and examined two 
joint cases. It also held public hearings in five instances 
and  took  on  three  new  contentious  cases.  The  Court 
covers a broad range of issues involving States from all 
continents.
in 
Here  we  wish  to  commend  the  Court  for  its 
remarkable  efforts 
the  efficient  management 
of  its  cases,  which  involve  many  procedural  steps 
with  growing  factual  and  judicial  complexity  in  the 
background. This year, new cases have been submitted 
to  the  Court  relating  to  the  shared  use  of  waters, 
diplomatic immunity and sovereignty. That underlines 
the varied nature of the cases heard and testifies to the 
universal character of the Court. 
Thailand  has  been  following  with  particular 
interest  the  activity  of  the  Court  in  various  cases, 
such  as  boundary  disputes,  maritime  delineation 
and  the  interpretation  of  treaties  and  judgments.  The 
Court’s  latest  ruling  regarding  the  two  joint  cases, 
concerning Certain Activities carried out by Nicaragua 
in  the  Border  Area  (Costa  Rica  v.  Nicaragua)  and 
Construction  of  a  Road  in  Costa  Rica  along  the  San 
Juan River (Nicaragua v. Costa Rica), is of particular 
interest to us.
Regarding  international  environmental  law,  the 
Court has confirmed and extended its previous rulings 
on the obligations of States with respect to activities in 
their territories that could have a negative impact on the 
territory of a neighbouring State. We should note that 
the Court has made reference to obligations stemming 
from  international  customary  law  and  international 
general law, without drawing a clear distinction between 
the  two  nor  suggesting  that  they  overlap.  However,  it 
would  perhaps  be  useful  to  understand  the  reasoning 
behind the reference to such different sources of law.
(spoke in English)
community 
in 
The  Kingdom  of  Thailand  wishes  to  join  the 
the 
international 
International  Court  of  Justice  on 
its  seventieth 
anniversary.  We  value  the  Court’s  unique  role  as 
the  principle  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  in 
congratulating 
safeguarding the purposes and principles of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  enormous  contribution 
that  the  Court’s  impressive  jurisprudence  has  made 
to  international  law.  On  behalf  of  the  Royal  Thai 
Government,  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
pay tribute to all the judges, the Registrar and the staff 
of the Court for their dedication and commitment.
International  law  is  powerless  if  States  refuse 
to  uphold  it.  Over  the  years,  the  Court’s  intellectual 
authority  has  greatly  contributed 
to  ensuring 
compliance  with  its  judgments.  We  commend  the 
Court’s rigorous process in conducting its deliberations 
and  reaching  its  decisions.  That  has  led  to  increased 
confidence in the Court and in the judicial and peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  in  general.  We  commend  the 
Court  for  duly  taking  into  account  the  jurisprudence 
of  other  international  courts  and  tribunals  and  for 
making efforts to align its rulings with the decisions of 
those bodies, thus ensuring coherence in international 
law.  Accordingly,  the  Court  has  played  a  key  role 
in  strengthening  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international level.
It is essential to preserve the integrity of the Court 
by  appointing  qualified  and  competent  judges  and 
ensuring  their  absolute  independence.  My  delegation 
therefore  wishes  to  stress  the  need  to  avoid  adopting 
a  pension  scheme  for  judges  of  the  Court  that  might 
discourage the most highly qualified individuals from 
standing for election. 
Finally, we wish to comment on budgetary issues. 
While  we  recognize  the  necessity  of  budget  cuts, 
we  are  of  the  view  that  the  Assembly  should  give 
due  consideration  to  the  situation  of  the  Court.  Its 
budgetary requests have already been modest, and its 
proper functioning should not be constrained because 
of  inadequate  funding.  We  hope  that  a  satisfactory 
solution  will  soon  be  found  and  sufficient  support 
provided to that important organ of the United Nations.
Mr.  Remaoun  (Algeria):  The  International  Court 
of  Justice  remains  the  only  jurisdiction  that  enjoys 
universality.  It  acts  as  a  World  Court.  The  Court  is 
enshrined in the United Nations Charter as its principal 
judicial  organ.  I  recall  that  the  document  that  was 
signed  in  1945  in  San  Francisco  is  entitled  “Charter 
of the United Nations and Statute of the International 
Court of Justice”. It therefore enjoys a unique status in 
the international legal framework.
6/13 
16-34742
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.35
The Court’s work has grown significantly in factual 
and  legal  complexity  over  the  past  seventy  years. 
The  Court  has  been  entrusted  with  resolving  many 
contentious  cases  from  all  over  the  world,  involving 
a  wide  range  of  subjects,  such  as  territorial  disputes, 
environmental  damage,  violations  of 
territorial 
integrity, and the right to self-determination of peoples 
under  colonial  rule  or  foreign  occupation.  Moreover, 
despite the increasing complexity of the cases and the 
considerable  growth  in  the  workload  of  the  Registry 
over  the  past  twenty  years,  Algeria  commends  the 
Court for its efficient response to those new challenges 
and encourages the Court to pursue its efforts to further 
strengthen measures already taken.
In that regard, Algeria reiterates its full support for 
the Court’s key role in ensuring the implementation of 
the provisions of international law, adjudicating disputes 
between  States  and  providing  advisory  opinions  to 
United  Nations  organs  and  specialized  agencies. 
Accordingly,  it  is  important  for  the  United  Nations, 
particularly  the  Security  Council,  to  request  advisory 
opinions from the Court on legal issues. The high moral 
and legal value of the Court’s advisory opinions could 
contribute tremendously to strengthening international 
peace and security and the rule of law.
As  Algeria  is  chairing  the  First  Committee,  on 
disarmament  and  international  security,  during  the 
current session of the General Assembly, my delegation 
would  like  to  reaffirm,  as  stated  this  morning  by  the 
representative  of  the  Group  of  African  States  (see 
A/71/PV.34),  the  importance  of  the  Court’s  advisory 
opinion of 8 July 1996 on the Legality of the Threat or 
Use of Nuclear Weapons, issued under the presidency 
of  the  Algerian  judge,  Mr.  Mohammed  Bedjaoui.  In 
that  advisory  opinion,  the  Court’s  judges  concluded 
unanimously that
 “There exists an obligation to pursue in good 
faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading 
to  nuclear  disarmament  in  all  its  aspects  under 
strict and effective international control.”
Therefore,  Algeria  calls  upon  all  Member  States 
to  meet  that  obligation  to  carry  out  the  process  of 
nuclear disarmament.
Finally,  Algeria  would  like  to  underscore  that,  at 
its 2016 session, the Special Committee on the Charter 
of the United Nations and on the Strengthening of the 
Role of the Organization recommended that the General 
Assembly  mark  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
International Court of Justice through a commemorative 
draft  resolution  to  be  adopted  during  the  current 
session. Algeria is honoured to have contributed to that 
process  in  its  capacity  as  Vice-Chair  of  the  Special 
Committee  and  looks  forward  to  the  adoption  of  that 
highly symbolic draft resolution (A/C.6/71/L.16).
Mr.  Mendoza-García  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Let  me  start  by  thanking  His  Excellency 
Judge Abraham for his report (see A/71/PV.34). It is an 
honour for me to participate once again in the annual 
meeting of the General Assembly to consider the report 
on  the  work  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  the 
only  international  court  of  a  universal  character  with 
general jurisdiction and the principal judicial organ of 
the United Nations.
During  the  reporting  period,  the  work  of  the 
Court was once again very intensive. It handed down 
judgments in two cases — in which, moreover, Costa 
Rica was a party — handed down 11 orders, held five 
public  hearings,  was  seized  of  three  new  contentious 
cases, and followed up on 14 pending proceedings. We 
highlight the fact that cases originate in every continent 
and  are  of  the  most  diverse  nature.,  That  is  evidence 
of  the  universal  character  of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction 
and  the  importance  that  the  membership  attach  to 
its decisions.
As the peaceful settlement of international disputes 
is  a  vital  objective  of  the  United  Nations,  the  role  of 
the  Court  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security and the promotion of the rule of law at the 
international level is a key one, hence the responsibility 
of the United Nations and its Member States to support 
the  Court  in  the  fulfilment  of  its  tasks.  That  support 
calls  for  the  Organization  to  ensure  that  the  Court  is 
able to deal efficiently and objectively, with complete 
procedural  and  judicial  independence,  with  the  cases 
submitted to it. It is therefore vitally urgent to ensure 
that  it  receives  the  necessary  budgetary  resources  to 
fulfil its mandate, taking its workload into account.
As  a  democracy  that  disbanded  its  armed  forces 
in 1948, Costa Rica recognizes international law and, 
in  particular,  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and 
respect  for  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level, 
as  tools  necessary  for  survival.  For  my  country,  it  is 
of  the  utmost  importance  that  all  States  comply  with 
their  international  obligations  vis-à-vis  other  States, 
including,  of  course,  the  decisions  of  the  Court.  We 
16-34742
7/13
A/71/PV.35 
27/10/2016
advocate that such compliance in all cases be complete 
and in good faith, thereby ensuring peace and justice.
In that regard, it is important for my delegation to 
reiterate how important it is for the United Nations to 
consider options for ensuring follow up on the judicial 
rulings, with a view to preventing irregular situations 
that might violate the rule of law. 
The 
International  Court  of  Justice  plays  a 
fundamental  role  in  promoting  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international level. Through its advisory opinions and 
judgments,  as  well  as  through  various  activities  in 
which it participates — publicity, easy-access diffusion 
of  its  proceedings  through  its  electronic  portal  and 
various  academic  programmes  —  the  Court  also 
contributes  to  the  development  of  international  law. 
Moreover, we recognize the role that the Court can play 
in  meeting  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  as  an 
organ able to prevent the use of force, defend the right 
of peoples seeking self-determination, advocate for the 
protection  of  the  environment  and  recognize  human 
rights violations.
Today, 
the  commemoration  of 
My  delegation  welcomes  the  Court’s  seventieth 
anniversary of its inaugural meeting on 20 April. Costa 
Rica  accepted  the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction  in 
1973  and  respectfully  invites  States  that  have  not  yet 
done  so  to  consider  making  use  of  the  mechanism 
provided for in Article 36 of the Court’s Statute and to 
accept its jurisdiction.
following 
its 
seventieth  anniversary,  we  are  confident  that  the 
Court will continue to work diligently with a view to 
resolving the disputes brought before it in an impartial 
and  fair  manner,  in  accordance  with  the  mission 
entrusted to it by Member States through the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  In  that  regard  and  in  keeping 
with  our  tradition  of  respect  for  the  instruments  and 
bodies of international law, we reiterate once again our 
commitment to abiding faithfully by all decisions of the 
Court, and we reaffirm our full confidence that it will 
continue  to  strengthen  peace  and  justice  through  the 
objective performance of its tasks.
Mr.  Laassel  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  At 
the outset, allow me to thank Judge Ronny Abraham, 
President of the International Court of Justice, for the 
Court’s comprehensive report, contained in document 
A/71/4,  covering  the  Court’s  activities  for  the  period 
from 1 August 2015 to 31 July 2016.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made  by  the  representative  of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  and  by  the  representative  of 
South Africa on behalf of the Group of African States 
(see  A/71/PV.34),  and  wishes  to  make  the  following 
comments in its national capacity.
Our  meeting 
this  year  coincides  with 
the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  first  sitting  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  which  was  celebrated 
in  April.  On  this  occasion,  my  delegation  would  like 
to  present  its  warmest  congratulations  to  the  Court’s 
President,  Vice-President,  judges  and  all  those  who 
have contributed to the successful work of the Court. 
Established  by  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  in 
June 1945 as the principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations,  the  Court  began  its  activities  in  April  1946. 
Since  then,  it  has  played  a  very  important  role  in 
contributing  to  the  development  and  interpretation  of 
the institutional law of the Organization, including the 
interpretation  of  the  provisions  of  the  Charter.  It  has 
also  contributed  to  the  development  of  international 
law through its advisory opinions and judgments.
Its  role  and  relevance  continue  to  be  reaffirmed. 
States,  in  the  exercise  of  their  sovereignty  and  good 
will, use the services of the Court for advice in order 
to peacefully settle their disputes, be they bilateral or 
trilateral. The fact that a number of States have asked 
the  Court  to  provide  its  opinion  on  a  wide  range  of 
subjects testifies to the universal and multidisciplinary 
character of the Court. Indeed, the subject matter of the 
cases  brought  before  the  Court  is  greatly  varied  and 
includes territorial and maritime disputes, the unlawful 
use of force, interference in the internal affairs of States, 
violations of States’ territorial integrity and sovereignty, 
economic rights, international humanitarian and human 
rights law, environmental damage and the conservation 
of  living  resources,  the  immunity  of  States  and  their 
representatives, and the interpretation and application 
of conventions and treaties. 
The Court can also play an important role in offering 
incentives  for  parties  to  negotiate  by  administering 
transactional justice, which offers them the opportunity 
to  settle  their  disputes  themselves.  It  can  be  said, 
therefore, that the Court provides an invaluable service 
to the parties to a dispute and performs a valuable role 
of facilitation and negotiation.
Moreover,  under  Article  96,  paragraph  1,  of  the 
Charter, the Economic and Social Council, Trusteeship 
8/13 
16-34742
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.35
the  Interim  Committee  of 
Council, 
the  General 
Assembly and the international organizations associated 
with them have made use of the Court’s services. As a 
result, the International Court of Justice is the judicial 
organ par excellence of the United Nations system.
For  its  part,  the  Court,  as  the  sole  international 
jurisdiction  of  a  universal  nature,  having  a  double 
competence  —  contentious  cases    and  consultation— 
has  never  refused  to  issue  a  judgment  or  an  advisory 
opinion,  as  long  as  the  conditions  relating  to  its 
jurisdiction  were  met.  That  has  made  it  the  most 
accessible  and  in-demand  court  in  terms  of  settling 
disputes  among  States.  It  therefore  plays  an  essential 
role  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the 
promotion of the rule of law worldwide.
As of 31 July, the Court had 14 cases on its docket. 
Three  new  contentious  cases  were  brought  before  it 
by  six  States  from  America,  five  from  Africa,  four 
from Europe, three from Asia and one from Oceania. 
That confirms the universality of the Court, given the 
diversity of the cases and subject matter, and illustrates 
the  general  nature  of  its  jurisdiction  as  the  principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations. 
That  said,  after  70  years  of  accumulated  legal 
experience  and  activity,  the  Court  must  now  better 
equip itself and adapt in order to meet new challenges.
Finally,  my  delegation  appreciates  the  important 
role  played  by  the  Court  in  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes  and  its  valuable  contribution  to  the 
consolidation  and 
the  rules  of 
international law. Hence, it is important to disseminate 
the Court’s work by publishing its judgments, advisory 
opinions  and  decisions  so  as  to  inculcate  among  the 
larger public the values   and principles of the peaceful 
settlement  of  conflicts,  contribute 
to  preventive 
diplomacy and promote the rule of law.
interpretation  of 
Mr.  Medina  Mejías  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Venezuela  associates 
itself with the statement made by the representative of 
the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the Movement 
of Non-Aligned Countries (see A/71/PV.34).
My delegation thanks the Honourable Judge Ronny 
Abraham,  President  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, for presenting the report of the Court (A/71/4). 
We  value  the  positive  efforts  made  by  that  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  to  improve  its 
efficiency and respond to the increased workload. We 
reaffirms 
The  delegation  of  Venezuela 
stress the importance of publishing the Court’s report 
with  sufficient  time  to  enable  States  to  prepare  their 
comments and make contributions in a timely manner.
the 
importance  of  respect  for  international  law,  including 
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, as an essential element for maintaining 
international  peace  and  security.  In  that  regard, 
respect  for  sovereignty,  the  right  of  peoples  to  self-
determination, 
integrity  and  political 
independence,  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and 
refraining from the threat or use of force are increasingly 
relevant, especially since those principles are the basis 
for peaceful coexistence among nations.
territorial 
reiterates 
to 
Venezuela 
its  commitment 
the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  in  accordance  with 
Article 2 and Chapters VI and VIII of the Charter of 
the United Nations. Member States have the sovereign 
right to choose the most appropriate means of achieving 
a  peaceful  solution  to  a  dispute.  Similarly,  legal 
obligations  resulting  from  accession  to  international 
agreements must also be honoured.
By  strengthening  international  law  through  its 
effective  implementation,  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  plays  a  vital  role  in  promoting  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes among States, pursuant to Article 
33  of  the  Charter  of  this  multilateral  Organization. 
Moreover, it is noteworthy that the Court in its historical 
evolution  has  adopted  broad  advisory  opinions  on 
various  issues  with  political  and  legal  implications  in 
the area of peace and international justice.
Venezuela  regrets  that  almost  20  years  after 
the  adoption  of  the  advisory  opinion  on  the  Legality 
of  the  Threat  or  Use  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  there  has 
been  no  significant  progress  in  the  field  of  nuclear 
disarmament. The use of that category of weapons of 
mass  destruction  is  still  part  of  the  strategic  doctrine 
of  the  military  alliances  of  certain  nuclear  Powers. 
We  therefore  encourage  the  international  community, 
especially  the  nuclear-weapon  States,  to  pursue  their 
efforts  to  negotiate  a  legally  binding  instrument 
proscribing the threat, use, production and stockpiling 
of nuclear weapons.
In  conclusion,  we  urge  strengthened  interaction 
among  the  Security  Council,  the  General  Assembly 
and  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  given  that, 
within the framework of their respective competencies, 
the  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes  in  support  of 
16-34742
9/13
A/71/PV.35 
27/10/2016
international peace and security is a common objective, 
in keeping with the fundamental purposes of the Charter 
of the United Nations and the desire of humankind.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  again 
express to the Court and all of its States members and 
staff, on behalf of France, our gratitude for its work.
In  that  connection,  we  believe  it  would  be  useful 
for  the General Assembly, other United Nations bodies 
and duly authorized specialized agencies if they were 
to more frequently request advisory opinions from the 
Court concerning the issues on their agendas with legal 
implications.
Mr.  Alabrune  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
delegation  of  France  wishes  to  thank  the  President 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge  Ronny 
Abraham,  for  his  introduction  of  the  Court’s  annual 
report  (A/71/4).  The  report  is  excellent  and  helpful 
and  confirms  the  Court’s  importance  in  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes between States. As highlighted 
in the list of cases on the docket, the Court has indeed 
seen its litigation activity increase over recent decades, 
thus demonstrating States’ confidence in the institution 
of the Court.
The decisions of the Court contribute to the easing of 
relations between States and the quest to settle disputes 
where other means have failed. If the Court’s decisions 
are binding on the parties because of the authority of 
the  res  judicata  attached  to  them,  States’  respect  for 
and willingness to comply with them are a function of 
their high quality, as references to the Court’s case law 
by other national and international courts attest. France 
therefore reiterates its commitment to and support of the 
Court, especially in view of its seventieth anniversary. 
That  support  is  manifested  through  a  contribution  to 
the Court’s resources and contributions to the Court’s 
work on the part of French lawyers from the beginning.
France may be subject to the Court’s jurisdiction by 
way of the many treaties to which it is party. It is also 
the only State to have accepted the Court’s jurisdiction 
under article 38, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Court, at 
the request of another State.
Next year will mark the renewal of one third of the 
judges of the Court. In that regard, France would like to 
stress the importance of the Court’s composition. The 
representation of various world cultures and languages 
greatly  improves  the  quality  of  the  Court’s  decisions. 
A  true  balance  of  the  various  legal  systems  forming 
the basis of international law is obtained by way of the 
languages represented.
increased  workload  before 
Mr. Bin Momen (Bangladesh): Bangladesh thanks 
the  President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for 
the  Court’s  comprehensive  report  (A/71/4)  detailing 
the  pending  and 
the 
Court  and  the  measures  taken  to  ensure  the  Court’s 
enhanced efficiency and visibility. We wish to take this 
opportunity to once again express our appreciation to 
the Court on the commemoration, in April this year, of 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  its  formal  seating.  That 
solemn  occasion  was  a  reminder  of  the  crucial  role 
played by the Court in promoting the pacific settlement 
of international disputes, as stipulated by the Charter of 
the United Nations.
The  photographic  display  inaugurated  at  United 
Nations  Headquarters  last  week  provides  a  vivid 
account  of  the  Court’s  contributions  over  the  years, 
as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations, 
in upholding the rule of law at the international level 
and in the maintenance of international peace, security 
and justice.
Bangladesh believes that the sustained confidence 
in  the  Court  felt  by  the  international  community  is 
manifested  through  the  broad  range  of  subjects  and 
cases invoked under its general jurisdiction. It is further 
reinforced by the Court’s jurisdiction ratione materiae
in the resolution of disputes among the States that are 
party  to  the  more  than  300  bilateral  and  multilateral 
treaties  and  conventions.  The  121  judgments  and  27 
advisory opinions that the Court has delivered to date 
constitute a seminal contribution in the development of 
international law.
As  a  nation  with  an  unequivocal  commitment 
to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  including 
through  recourse  to  international  law,  Bangladesh 
duly  acknowledges  the  Court’s  judgments,  advisory 
opinions  and  ongoing  work  concerning  territorial 
integrity  and  sovereignty,  unlawful  use  of  force  and 
interference  in  the  domestic  affairs  of  States,  among 
other issues. Given our history of resolving outstanding 
maritime  and  land  boundary  delimitation  issues  with 
our  neighbours  through  legal  and  peaceful  means, 
we  continue  to  follow  with  interest  the  Court’s  work 
on territorial and maritime disputes, as well as on the 
conservation of natural and living resources.
10/13 
16-34742
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.35
As  part  of  our  unremitting  advocacy  for  a 
peaceful,  just  and  viable  solution  to  the  political  and 
humanitarian  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories, Bangladesh attaches great importance to the 
Court’s advisory opinion on the Legal Consequences of 
the Construction of a Wall in the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory,  including  in  and  around  East  Jerusalem, 
which  continues  to  pose  a  formidable  obstacle  to  the 
meaningful resumption of the peace process.
Every  year  Bangladesh  co-sponsors  the  General 
Assembly  draft  resolution  entitled  “Follow-up  to  the 
advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice 
on the legality of the threat or use of nuclear weapons”, 
as  we  underscore  the  importance  of  commencing 
negotiations  in  the  Conference  on  Disarmament  on  a 
comprehensive convention addressing all aspects of the 
prohibition and elimination of nuclear weapons.
We  expect  that  in  the  course  of  its  judicial  and 
advisory  work  on  environmental  issues,  the  Court 
will  give  due  consideration  to  the  issues  of  climate 
justice and loss and damage, as recognized by the Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  The  Court’s  opinions 
on those issues could be useful for climate-vulnerable 
countries as they continue to seek appropriate responses 
to climate-change threats and impacts through effective 
adaptation and mitigation measures.
Bangladesh  recognizes 
the  Court’s  need  for 
adequate resources for ensuring its proper functioning 
and urges all Member States to give due consideration 
to  the  Court’s  submissions  in  that  regard.  We  note 
with  appreciation  the  efforts  being  made  to  further 
upgrade the Court’s visibility online, including through 
its  website,  and  to  enhance  the  use  of  information 
and  communications  technology  in  tandem  with  the 
growing complexity of its work.
in  accordance  with 
Bangladesh  remains  mindful  of 
the  General 
Assembly’s  call  upon  States  to  accept  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction, 
its  Statute.  We 
thank  those  Member  States  that  have  made  voluntary 
contributions  this  year  to  the  Secretary-General’s 
Trust  Fund  to  assist  States  in  bearing  the  expenses 
incurred during the settlement of disputes through the 
International Court of Justice.
of  the  report  of  the  Court  on  its  activities  (A/71/4). 
Its  work,  much  like  its  work  last  year,  has  consisted 
of  the  holding  of  public  hearings  on  cases  and  the 
publication of its judgments and rulings. Moreover, the 
types of cases brought before the Court have broadened 
and  are  now  extremely  varied  in  subject  matter, 
such  as  territorial  and  maritime  disputes,  genocide, 
environmental  damage,  the  preservation  of  biological 
resources,  the  interpretation  and  implementation  of 
international  conventions  and  treaties,  and  violations 
of 
international 
humanitarian law and human rights. The vitality of the 
Court is commendable.
integrity,  sovereignty, 
territorial 
I  also  pay  tribute  to  the  States  that  have  chosen 
the  judicial  option  to  settle  their  disputes.  In  doing 
so,  they  have  opted  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes, instead of resorting to force, thereby placing 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  at  the  heart  of  the 
quest for and strengthening of international peace and 
cooperation.
As  a  beneficiary  of  the  United  Nations  judical 
path, Cameroon can boast of being a model to follow, 
as  is  evidenced  by  the  10  October  2002  Court  ruling 
regarding  the  land  and  maritime  boundary  between 
Cameroon  and  Nigeria.  The  implementation  of  that 
decision  is  now  in  its  final  stage  and  has  resulted  in 
greater solidarity between the peoples of Cameroon and 
Nigeria.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  once 
again and thank our bilateral and multilateral partners, 
who have worked tirelessly to help us implement that 
judgment. That is proof that resort to international law 
is the most appropriate path if we are to achieve lasting 
peace  among  nations.  I  therefore  urge  all  Member 
States  that  are  seeking  a  legal  settlement  for  their 
intergovernmental disputes and conflicts to be inspired 
by our success.
President  Paul  Biya  has  always  supported  that 
method  of  settling  disputes.  Achieving  peace  through 
law,  as  he  has  advocated,  is  possible  as  long  as  force 
yields  to  law  and  States  recognize  the  primacy  of 
international  law  and  the  preponderant  role  of  the 
United Nations in that regard.
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
in 
French): At the outset, I would like to express my warm 
congratulations  to  the  President  of  the  International 
Court of Justice for his very detailed presentation this 
morning  in  the  General  Assembly  (see  A/71/PV.34) 
The celebration of the seventieth anniversary of the 
International Court of Justice on 20 April 2016 was a 
significant occasion for States and the Court to honour 
the primacy of international law as the best manner of 
settling international disputes. 
16-34742
11/13
A/71/PV.35 
27/10/2016
in 
relations. 
to  adapt 
international 
the  Court  has  worked 
Following  that  celebration,  Cameroon  commends 
to  recent 
how 
developments 
It  had 
previously focused almost exclusively on border issues 
and now has been able to make the necessary changes 
to be able to grapple with new types of matters, such as 
contentious  cases  related  to  environmental  protection 
and property rights. 
The  Court’s  role  is  more  important  than  ever 
before. Indeed, considering the increasing complexity 
of  legal  matters  submitted  to  it,  the  judges  are  now 
called  on  to  advance  international  law  in  all  areas 
of  the  activities  of  our  States.  Cameroon  takes  this 
opportunity to commend the efforts to modernize the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations so as to 
enable it to contribute to the attainment of lasting peace 
and stability amongst States.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  call  upon  the 
Court, following its anniversary, to envision a reform 
mechanism aimed at optimizing its performance. Such a 
reform could include increasing the consideration given 
to African principles and values in order to enrich and 
broaden the customary sources of international law.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on this item.
May I take it that the General Assembly takes note 
of the report of the International Court of Justice?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  I 
take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 70?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 7 (continued)
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items
Second report of the General Committee 
(A/71/250/Add.1)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
paragraph  (a)  of  its  report,  the  General  Committee 
recommends 
that  an 
additional  item,  entitled  “Observer  status  for  the 
Central  American  Bank  for  Economic  Integration  in 
the  General  Assembly”  be  included  in  the  agenda  of 
the  General  Assembly 
to 
the  current  session  under  heading  I  (Organizational, 
administrative and other matters).
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to 
include this item in the agenda of the current session, 
under heading I?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
paragraph  (b)  of  its  report,  the  General  Committee 
further recommends that the new item be allocated to 
the Sixth Committee. 
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to 
allocate this item to the Sixth Committee?
It was so decided.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I wish to 
inform members that the agenda item entitled “Observer 
status    of  the  Central  American  Bank  for    Economic 
Integration in the General Assembly” becomes agenda 
item 174 of the agenda of the current session. The Chair 
of the Sixth Committee will be informed of the decision 
just taken by the General Assembly.
Reports of the Fifth Committee
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): If there 
is no proposal under rule 66 of the rules of procedure, 
I shall take it the Assembly decides not to discuss the 
reports  of  the  Fifth  Committee  which  are  before  it 
today.
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President 
(spoke 
in  Spanish): 
Statements will therefore be limited to explanations of 
vote or position. The positions of delegations regarding 
the recommendations of the Fifth Committee have been 
made clear in that Committee and are reflected in the 
relevant official records.
May I remind members that under paragraph 7 of 
decision 34/401, the General Assembly agreed that:
“When  the  same  draft  resolution  is  considered 
in  a  Main  Committee  and  in  plenary  meeting,  a 
delegation  should,  as  far  as  possible,  explain  its 
vote only once; that is, either in the Committee or 
in  plenary  meeting,  unless  that  delegation’s  vote 
in plenary meeting is different from its vote in the 
Main Committee.”
May  I  also  remind  delegations  that,  also  in 
accordance  with  General  Assembly  decision  34/401, 
12/13 
16-34742
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.35
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
to 
take  action  on 
Before  we  begin 
the 
recommendations contained in the reports of the Fifth 
Committee, I should like to advise representatives that 
we are going to take decisions in the same manner as 
was  done  in  the  Fifth  Committee,  unless  otherwise 
notified in advance.
Agenda item 135
Programme planning
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/71/545)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly has before it a draft resolution recommended 
by the Fifth Committee in paragraph 6 of its report. The 
Fifth Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it 
that the Assembly would like to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 71/6).
The  Acting  President 
in  Spanish): 
The  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its 
consideration of agenda item 135.
(spoke 
Agenda items 133 and 144
Review of the efficiency of the administrative and 
financial functioning of the United Nations
Report on the activities of the Office of Internal 
Oversight Services
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/71/548)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  the 
draft resolution entitled “Report on the activities of the 
Office of Internal Oversight Services: report of the Fifth 
Committee”,  recommended  by  the  Fifth  Committee 
in  paragraph  6  of  its  report.  The  Fifth  Committee 
adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the General 
Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 71/7).
The  Acting  President 
in  Spanish): 
The  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its 
consideration of agenda items 133 and 144.
(spoke 
The meeting rose at 4.30 p.m.
16-34742
13/13
