United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
26th plenary meeting
Monday, 10 October 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.26
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Pecsteen  de 
Buytswerve (Belgium), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda items 9 and 13 (continued)
Report of the Economic and Social Council
Report of the Economic and Social Council 
(A/71/3)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/71/155)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
connection  with  agenda  item  9,  I  would  like  to  recall 
that,  pursuant  to  resolution  58/316,  of  1  July  2004, 
the  Assembly,  on  the  recommendation  of  the  General 
Committee,  decided,  at  its  2nd  plenary  meeting,  held 
on  16  September,  to  consider  agenda  item  9  in  its 
entirety in plenary meeting, on the understanding that 
the  administrative  programme  and  budgetary  aspects 
should be dealt with by the Fifth Committee.
At the same meeting, the Assembly took note of the 
clarification that, in implementing resolution 58/316 to 
consider item 9 in its entirety in plenary meeting, the 
relevant  parts  of  Chapter  I  of  the  report  (A/71/3)  that 
are  under  agenda  items  already  allocated  to  the  Main 
Committees  would  be  considered  by  the  Committee 
concerned for final action by the General Assembly.
In  connection  with  agenda  item  13,  members 
will  recall  that,  pursuant  to  resolution  57/270  B,  the 
Assembly  decided  to  consider  under  the  item  the 
chapters of the annual report of the Economic and Social 
Council  relevant  to  the  integrated  and  coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits, 
including through the participation of the President of 
the Council in its discussions.
I now give the floor to the President of the Economic 
and  Social  Council,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Oh  Joon,  to 
introduce the report of the Council.
Mr.  Oh  Joon  (President,  Economic  and  Social 
Council): I have the honour to introduce to the General 
Assembly the 2016 report (A/71/3) of the Economic and 
Social Council.
Entering  its  seventieth  year,  the  2016  session  of 
the Council focused on what was needed for the initial 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. That included the work of the Council’s 
segments  and  forums,  of  the  various  functional  and 
regional commissions,and of expert bodies, all of which 
are instrumental in the integrated implementation of the 
2030 Agenda. The 2016 session of the Council provided 
a common space for Governments and stakeholders to 
come together to advance sustainable development and 
other key issues. Please allow me to briefly share some 
highlights of the session.
First, the Council conducted its primary follow-up 
and review of implementation of the 2030 Agenda. The 
High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-31541 (E)
*1631541*
A/71/PV.26 
10/10/2016
was successfully held under the theme “Ensuring that 
no one is left behind”. Twenty-two countries presented 
their voluntary national reviews on how they planned 
to achieve the ambitious vision embodied in the 2030 
Agenda.  The  inaugural  Economic  and  Social  Council 
Forum  on  Financing  for  Development  follow-up 
provided a solid, dedicated and inclusive platform for 
substantive deliberations on how to finance sustainable 
development, along with a follow-up to the Addis Ababa 
Action Agenda.
Secondly, we explored ways for the United Nations 
system to respond more effectively to the changes in the 
development landscape. The Development Cooperation 
Forum  deliberated  on  ways  to  improve  the  alignment 
of  the  United  Nations  development  system  with  the 
demands of the new Agenda. The Economic and Social 
Council  dialogue  on  the  subject  of  the  longer-term 
positioning of the United Nations development system 
offered an opportunity for Member States to consider 
ways to equip the United Nations to better support the 
implementation of the new Agenda. I am confident that 
the dialogue will be able to contribute to implementing 
resolution  67/226,  on  the  quadrennial  comprehensive 
policy review this year, which will be a significant tool 
for  the  achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals (SDGs).
Thirdly, 
its  relevance 
to  what  is  happening  in  the  world  by  addressing 
emerging  global  threats,  challenges  and  humanitarian 
emergencies.  It  held  a  special  meeting  on  inequality, 
and special briefings on the Zika virus and the El Niño 
phenomenon. It also advanced integrated responses to 
peace and sustainable development.
the  Council  enhanced 
Last  but  not  least,  the  Council  strengthened 
multi-stakeholder  partnerships  through  its  meetings 
and forums, including the Partnership Forum and Youth 
Forum. We had a chance to hear diverse voices from civil 
society, the private sector and academia in our global 
dialogue  on  a  sustainable  future.  The  huge  interest 
shown by various segments of society highlighted the 
need for us to engage more effectively with all relevant 
actors  in  a  spirit  of  partnership  and  inclusion.  That 
interest, which is described in more detail in the report, 
illustrates  how  the  Council  has  captured  the  spirit 
and the vision of the new global development agenda.
The entire Economic and Social Council system has a 
central role to play in realizing this vision. We should 
therefore  build  on  the  work  already  carried  out  and 
strengthen the momentum generated by the adoption of 
the  2030  Agenda  and  the  other  milestone  agreements 
of the past year. Moving forward, we need to focus on 
establishing a collaborative platform that will support 
our concrete actions to achieve the future we want.
A renewed spirit of cooperation on the part of all 
will be key in overcoming the daunting tasks ahead to 
achieve the SDGs. For the United Nations, development 
is  a  realm  in  which  a  win-win  approach  is  not  only 
possible but almost inevitable. The cooperative efforts 
and  commitments  of  all  Member  States  and  relevant 
stakeholders  are  critical  for  the  entire  United  Nations 
development  system,  with  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council at its core.
On  behalf  of  the  2016  session  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council Bureau, I would like to express my 
sincere gratitude for the strong collaboration and support 
of Member States and the United Nations development 
system. I am confident that the Council, as guided by its 
new  President,  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Frederick 
Shava, will work to successfully achieve its objectives 
for the 2017 session. I invite all members to continue 
their  engagement  and  cooperation  with  the  Economic 
and Social Council at the current session.
Mr. De Lara Rangel (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
At  the  outset,  on  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the 
people  of  Mexico,  allow  me  to  extend  our  sincerest 
condolences  to  our  brotherly  nation  Haiti  at  this 
difficult and painful time.
My  delegation  appreciates  the  presentation  of  the 
report  (A/71/3)  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
for 2016.
For Mexico, the implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development is a State commitment. In 
assuming its international responsibility on the global 
stage, Mexico has focused its efforts on ensuring that 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  bring 
about  truly  great  transformations  on  our  peace  and 
security  agenda  and  in  the  way  in  which  the  United 
Nations  works  to  build  a  peaceful  world  for  future 
generations. The transformative change towards a new 
peace paradigm, known as “sustainable peace”, places 
human beings at the centre of our collective action. In 
particular,  this  peace  is  solidly  based  on  sustainable 
and  inclusive  development,  combating  poverty  and 
inequality  and  providing  access  to  justice  and  the 
rule of law as the most effective means of preventing 
conflict and improving people’s lives.
2/5 
16-31541
10/10/2016 
A/71/PV.26
To  implement  the  2030  Agenda,  Mexico  supports 
the strengthening of the Economic and Social Council 
so that it can propose sound public policies, including 
through the High-level Political Forum, at which, last 
July,  Mexico  presented  its  programme  and  described 
its  progress  towards  achieving  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development. The review of the Economic 
and Social Council scheduled for 2017 must also improve 
the Council’s role as a platform for 30 subsidiary bodies 
and the various social and economic actors committed 
to the 2030 Agenda. As we have repeatedly said, it is 
of vital importance that there should be no attempt to 
adapt  the  Agenda  to  the  existing  structures  and  inert 
practices of the Organization.
To achieve the desired coherence, the Economic and 
Social Council must ensure that there is no duplication 
of roles and mandates with other United Nations funds, 
programmes, bodies and specialized agencies and must 
foster  synergies  with  the  General  Assembly.  In  that 
regard, the Quadrennial Comprehensive Policy Review, 
which we are now beginning, provides an opportunity 
for  generating  urgent  and  necessary  changes  in  the 
development  pillar,  based  on  dialogue  on  the  long-
term  positioning  of  the  United  Nations  development 
system  and  carried  out  within  the  framework  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council.  It  is  also  necessary  to 
consider the particularities of middle-income countries, 
which  continue  to  confront  considerable  challenges 
to development.
Mexico  is  committed  to  advancing  several  of  the 
issues  on  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  agenda 
that  are  aligned  with  the  2030  Agenda.  By  way  of 
example,  we  rely  on  the  adoption  of  the  New  Urban 
Agenda in Quito so that we can reinvent our cities from 
a sustainable perspective, while improving equity and 
well-being  and  reducing  exclusion  and  sociospatial 
segregation. And in December my country will host in 
Cancun the thirteenth meeting of the Conference of the 
Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, given 
our commitment as an extremely diverse country to the 
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity.
In May 2017, Mexico will also provide the venue at 
which the Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction 
will  assess  the  Sendai  Framework  in  the  light  of  the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  and  will  set 
targets  for  risk  reduction  and  mitigation.  We  firmly 
believe that, given climate change, rapid urbanization 
and water-management difficulties, inter alia, the risk 
of  disaster  is  never  zero.  For  that  reason,  President 
Peña  Nieto,  together  with  President  Gurib-Fakim  of 
Mauritius, has co-chaired the High-level Panel on Water 
since the beginning of the year. The Panel’s action plan, 
which was launched by its 11 high-level members a few 
weeks ago, will enable States and diverse stakeholders 
to coordinate their actions.
In  order  to  leave  no  one  behind,  we  must  ensure 
that  cooperation  for  development  is  more  effective 
and predictable, pursuant to paragraph 58 of the Addis 
Ababa Action Agenda. In that regard, the collaboration 
of  the  United  Nations  system  with  forums  such  as 
the  Global  Alliance  for  Effective  Cooperation  on 
Development  can  prepare  for  a  new  transformative 
vision for sustainable development.
The  Assembly  can  count  on  our  active  and 
constructive participation in all related work.
Mr. Sinha (India): India attaches great importance 
to  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  We 
commend  the  outgoing  President  and  the  Bureau  for 
their stewardship of its activities.
I  would  like  to  extend  our  congratulations  to  the 
Permanent Representative of the Republic of Zimbabwe 
on  his  resumption  of  the  current  presidency  of  the 
Economic and Social Council, and would like to assure 
him of our steadfast support to him and his Bureau in 
their work. We are grateful for the report (A/71/3) of the 
Economic and Social Council for the year 2016, which 
usefully enumerates the activities of the Council.
We  would  like  to  congratulate  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  for  organizing  the  High-level  Political 
Forum on Sustainable Development, convened under its 
auspices, the first since the adoption of the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). The Forum offered a place 
for  policymakers  from  around  the  world  to  exchange 
their ideas on how to accelerate the implementation of 
the far-reaching 2030 Agenda in a consistent, effective 
manner.  It  included  voluntary  national  reviews  by  22 
countries  and  thematic  reviews  of  progress  on  the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
Fully  committed  to  ensuring  a  life  of  dignity  for 
all  its  people,  India  intends  to  present  its  voluntary 
national review at the Assembly session next year, with 
the aim of sharing its experiences, including successes, 
challenges  and  lessons  learned,  to  accelerate  the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda. We have integrated 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  framework  into 
16-31541
3/5
A/71/PV.26 
10/10/2016
our national development strategy. We have decided to 
dedicate one day in each session of our Parliament for 
discussions focused solely on the progress made on the 
SDGs.  India’s  success  in  sustaining  robust  economic 
growth  to  eradicate  poverty  will  contribute  in  no 
small measure to the global achievement of the SDGs. 
The process of doing so will bring forth technologies 
and  pathways  to  progress  that  can  be  shared  with 
other  developing  countries  to  enable  them  to  achieve 
sustainable development.
countries’ 
commitments 
to 
instrumental.  An 
As  we  move  forward,  the  realization  of  the 
developed 
resource 
mobilization for strengthening capacities and technical 
assistance  to  developing  countries  will  be  critical. 
In  that  regard,  we  think  the  technology  facilitation 
mechanism  will  be 
important 
achievement  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in 
that  context  was  the  discussion  organized  at  the  first 
annual multi-stakeholder forum on science, technology 
and innovation for the Sustainable Development Goals, 
to which all relevant stakeholders actively contributed 
in their areas of expertise. We are sure that at the next 
session  the  Forum  will  again  further  build  upon  its 
existing strength.
We  commend  the  efforts  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  in  organizing  the  2016  inaugural 
Forum on Financing for Development follow-up, which 
provided a solid platform for susbstantive deliberation 
with  the  representatives  of  intergovernmental  bodies 
and  the  senior  management  of  the  Bretton  Woods 
Institutions,  the  World  Trade  Organization  and  the 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. 
They affirmed strong commitment to the full and timely 
implementation  of  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda 
and recognized that it provides a global framework for 
financing  sustainable  development  and  is  an  integral 
part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
while supporting and complementing it and helping to 
contextualize its means of implementation targets with 
concrete policies and action.
At  a  meeting  organized  by  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council,  experts  analysed  the  phenomenon 
of  El  Niño,  which  has  affected  more  than  60  million 
people,  and  recommended  implementing  the  Sendai 
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 and 
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in a coherent 
and integrated manner.
To facilitate the early entry into force of the Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  under  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
India deposited its instrument of ratification earlier this 
month. As part of our intended nationally determined 
contribution,  we  begin  to  move  forward  on  the  road 
to  climate  action.  India  will  reduce  its  emissions 
intensity  by  35  per  cent,  build  a  40  per  cent  capacity 
of  power  generation  from  non-fossil  fuels  and  create 
an  additional  carbon  sink  of  2.5  billion  tons  through 
various afforestation policies. India remains committed 
to fully embracing the Sendai Framework, and our Prime 
Minister, Mr. Narendra Modi, released this year in that 
regard the national disaster management plan. A month 
from now, in early November, in collaboration with the 
United  Nations  Office  for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction, 
India  will  host  in  New  Delhi  the  biennial  Asian 
Ministerial  Conference  on  Disaster  Risk  Reduction, 
under 
theme  “Risk-sensitive  development  for 
community resilience”.
the 
We  are  happy  to  note  that  the  theme  for  the  next 
High-level Political Forum will be eradicating poverty 
and promoting prosperity in a changing world. It is our 
expectation that the Economic and Social Council will 
address  the  sustainable  development  challenges,  with 
poverty  eradication  as  our  central  and  overarching 
objective. The Economic and Social Council dialogues 
have  been  able  to  set  the  tone  for  the  forthcoming 
Quadrennial Comprehensive Policy Review. We expect 
it  to  provide  long-term  strategic  guidance  vis-à-vis 
the  2030  Agenda  for  the  United  Nations  development 
system  for  the  years  ahead.  Member  States  should  be 
able  to  count  on  a  coherent,  effective  and  efficient 
United Nations system that is focused on those services 
the  system  is  uniquely  qualified  to  deliver,  based  on 
solid intergovernmental guidance and supported with a 
predictable and adequate volume of flexible resources.
to  reiterate  India’s 
commitment  to  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council and its active and constructive engagement in 
its work in the coming months.
In  conclusion,  allow  me 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 
have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  on  today’s 
agenda items.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  takes 
note of the report of the Economic and Social Council, 
contained in document A/71/3?
It was so decided.
4/5 
16-31541
10/10/2016 
A/71/PV.26
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 9 and of agenda item 13.
Agenda item 117
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium 
Summit: specific meeting focused on development
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance with resolution 60/265, dated 30 June 2006, 
on  the  follow-up  to  the  outcome  of  the  Millennium 
Summit,  a  specific  meeting  focused  on  development 
should be held. I have been informed that no Member 
State has requested to take the floor under this item. 
The General Assembly has thus ended this stage of 
Programme of work
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  As 
announced today in The Journal of the United Nations, 
I  would  like  to  inform  members  that  delegations  that 
wish to be added to the list of speakers for the plenary 
meetings  of  the  General  Assembly  should  make  their 
wishes  known  through  the  e-delegates  portal  located 
at  http//delegates.un.int.  The  e-speakers 
link  has 
been  open  since  9  a.m.  today.  An  automated  e-mail 
acknowledgement  will  be  sent  within  one  hour  of 
receipt of inscription. For inquiries with regard to user 
names  and  passwords,  kindly  contact  the  Department 
for  General  Assembly  and  Conference  Management 
help desk at help-desk@un.org.  For any other inquiries 
with  regard  to  the  list  of  speakers,  please  contact  the 
list of speakers officer in the General Assembly Affairs 
Branch.
its consideration of agenda item 117.
The meeting rose at 10.40 a.m. 
16-31541
5/5
