United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
13th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 21 September 2016, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.13
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Ms.  Francis 
(Bahamas), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6 p.m.
Address by Mr. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President of 
the Republic of Estonia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Estonia.
the 
Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of 
Republic of Estonia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves, 
President of the Republic of Estonia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Ilves:  I  address  the  General  Assembly 
today for my tenth and last time. The first time I spoke 
here  (see  A/62/PV.5),  I  addressed  climate  change, 
conflict,  refugees  and  —  what  was  apparently  a 
first  at  the  General  Assembly  —  cyberattacks  as  the 
continuation of policy by other means.
The  issues  are  therefore  largely  the  same,  and 
only the urgency that we sense has been ratcheted up. 
Certainly, the world was more stable then. It was before 
the economic and migration crises, the current conflicts 
in the wider Middle East, or Russia’s aggression against 
Georgia  and  Ukraine.  It  was  also  before  the  war  on 
truth and facts that seems to have taken over in many 
places. Despite our concerns at the time, we lived in a 
more stable world, where optimism had not yet become 
naiveté. Today, in too many parts of the world, we find 
a conflict either emerging, raging or frozen. Terrorism, 
always a scourge, dominates our daily headlines in all 
parts of the world.
Not  all  of  today’s  conflicts  and  crises  could  have 
been  prevented,  yet  the  effect  of  many  could  have 
been mitigated had we acted sooner or had the proper 
mechanisms  to  resolve  them  been  in  place.  When 
I  addressed  the  Assembly  in  the  wake  of  Russia’s 
invasion of Georgia in 2008 (see A/63/PV.8), I warned 
not to apply international law selectively. International 
law had clearly been violated, yet little was done. Six 
years  later,  in  2014,  we  saw  a  repeat  performance  in 
Ukraine.  Part  of  a  sovereign  State  was  annexed  and 
another part turned into a war zone. For the first time 
since  the  Second  World  War,  borders  in  Europe  had 
been changed through the use of force. The prohibition 
on the use of force to change borders lies at the heart 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  It  was  blatantly 
violated, and yet the United Nations could not make a 
difference.  Russia’s  aggression  in  Ukraine  continues. 
The territories of Ukraine and Georgia remain occupied 
by a foreign military force, and frozen conflicts persist 
in Nagorno Karabakh and Transnistria.
We need global norms. Just as we need international 
law, we also need the mechanisms to enforce it. Unless 
the United Nations starts to do more, it will, over time, 
lose  relevance.  When  we  face  a  global  challenge,  the 
United Nations should be the first place to come to for 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29503 (E)
*1629503*
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
a solution, not the last stop when all other options have 
been  exhausted,  knowing  that  nothing  will  happen 
anyway.
During the past 15 years, the number of migrants and 
refugees worldwide has grown faster than the world’s 
population.  I  raise  the  issue  not  only  because  it  is  a 
crisis, but also because I myself am a child of refugees. 
What  we  face  is  not  —  I  stress  —  an  unprecedented 
crisis,  as  so  many  have  averred.  We  have  faced  far 
worse  refugee  crises  and  we  have  prevailed.  In  the 
Europe of 1946, Germany alone had 12 million internal 
refugees  and  another  12  million  displaced  persons  of 
20 different nationalities. Other countries in the post-
war shambles and ruin of Europe at the time were not 
in  much  better  shape.  Yet  we  prevailed,  or  rather  our 
grandparents  did.  In  three  years,  the  United  Nations 
Relief and Rehabilitation Administration — and I stress 
the first two words of the name of this agency — spent 
in today’s money approximately €50 billion to resolve 
that crisis. It took political will, courage and far more 
money to solve that crisis than we are willing to spend 
today.
Migration is our common challenge. A sustainable 
solution to this complex problem lies in addressing its 
causes. Yet we also must fulfil our commitments under 
international conventions on the protection of refugees. 
Such  commitments  already  exist.  They  are  not  some 
vague future goal to which we pledge. 
Migrant  children  are  at  the  heart  of  migration 
influx.  Children  on  the  move  or  otherwise  affected 
by  migration  are  the  most  vulnerable  group,  who, 
lacking  agency,  face  limited  access  to  justice  and 
social  and  health  services  and  therefore  often  suffer 
horrible abuse. One significant challenge is to provide 
education to the children in refugee camps. Depriving 
them of education will damage the prospects of refugee 
and  asylum-seeking  children, 
them  behind 
and, at the same time, increase the risk of the kind of 
alienation that often leads later to extremism. We have 
seen this where refugee camps have been in place for a 
long time — sometimes for generations — begetting a 
continuing crop of disaffected, alienated and radicalized 
youth who feel that they have nothing to lose.
leave 
The  ongoing  conflicts  we  see  around  the  world 
will, if we do not take control, breed a terrorism that 
knows  no  bounds.  Estonia  reaffirms  its  commitment 
to working together to prevent and counter terrorism, 
which is why we participate in the Global Coalition to 
Counter the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant.
Estonia firmly supports the International Criminal 
Court and its quest to end impunity. Countries,  whether 
or not they have joined the Rome Statute, must set an 
example  of  non-aggression,  self-restraint  and  respect 
for  the  rule  of  law.  We  believe  that  a  commitment  to 
fighting impunity at all levels is the only way to deter 
those who might commit crimes in future.
In 2005, the States Members of the United Nations 
committed to the principle of responsibility to protect, 
better  known  as  R2P,  and  to  fight  genocide,  war 
crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. 
However,  the  brutality  we  see  in  Syria  shows  that  an 
effective  solution  lies  beyond  the  grasp  of  the  United 
Nations.  When  a  Government  fails  to  live  up  to  its 
commitments, when it violates the fundamental norms 
of  civilized  behaviour  —  let  alone  the  tenets  of  the 
United  Nations  —  the  international  community  must 
act. In this respect, the Security Council bears primary 
responsibility.  Council  members  that  veto  or  vote 
against  actions  aimed  at  preventing  mass  atrocities 
carry co-responsibility for those atrocities.
A primary criticism directed at the United Nations 
today is the Security Council’s inability or unwillingness 
to respond to major crises. Estonia cannot speak from 
first-hand  experience,  as  we  have  not  yet  served  in 
the  Council;  we  have  merely  observed.  We  want, 
however, to bring the spirit of openness, transparency 
and inclusiveness to the Council’s work, and hence are 
running  for  a  non-permanent  seat  for  2020-2021.  We 
are  convinced  that  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  the  non-permanent  members  of  the  Council  must 
be increased. 
The  majority  of  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations are small countries. As we look at the history 
of conflict since the Second World War, small countries 
are  almost  invariably  the  victims  of  conflict,  not  the 
abetters. This is nothing new. In the Melian Dialogue 
at the heart of his History of the Peloponnesian Wars, 
Thucydides  famously  concluded  that  “the  strong  do 
what they will, the weak suffer what they must”. That 
is why we have international law — to protect the weak 
and  the  small.  Their  voices  must  be  better  heard  and 
their rights must be upheld. Estonia, as a member of the 
Accountability, Coherence and Transparency Group, is 
working together with a number of other countries to 
2/30 
16-29503
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.13
improve the working methods of the Security Council 
so as to bring about badly needed changes.
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development are effective 
tools  for  advancing  security  and  stability,  spurring 
economic  growth,  eradicating  poverty,  preserving 
the  environment  and  promoting  human  development. 
Taking that commitment seriously, Estonia was among 
the  first  countries  to  present  our  voluntary  national 
review  on  the  implementation  of  SDGs  during  the 
High-level Political Forum.
Estonia  attaches  great  importance  to  the  Goal 
of  achieving  gender  equality  that  can  unlock  the 
economic  potential  of  women.  More  equal  societies 
work better for everyone. Achieving gender equality is 
first and foremost the duty of political leaders and the 
Governments that they lead. Amid current conflicts, it 
is important to ensure that women do not fall victim to 
gender-based violence. It is also important that they be 
included in conflict resolution and peace negotiations. 
It  is  therefore  imperative  to  continue  to  implement 
Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000)  and  related 
resolutions on women and peace and security.
Free media is an integral, even inseparable, part of 
modern  and  democratic  society,  where  Governments 
listen to criticism, which, after all, forms part of what 
we  call  the  voice  of  the  people.  Yet  all  around  the 
globe,  we  see  that  critical  voices  —  and  even  those 
that merely report the facts — face reprisals, jail and 
violence.  The  United  Nations  Plan  of  Action  on  the 
Safety  of  Journalists  and  the  Issue  of  Impunity  must 
be implemented if we are to change the absurdity that 
reporting facts is a life-threatening activity.
For  Estonia,  a  leader  of  innovation  in  the  digital 
world, the right to freedom of opinion and expression 
online  and  offline  is  a  fundamental  issue.  Digital 
technology has been a liberating force, yet some would 
turn  it  into  a  means  to  control  citizens.  As  a  founder 
of  the  Freedom  Online  Coalition,  Estonia  is  a  donor 
to  the  Digital  Defenders  Partnership,  contributing  to 
the  protection  of  the  rights  of  journalists,  bloggers 
and  human-rights  defenders  online.  In  times  of  rapid 
developments  in  information  and  communications 
technology, the protection of human rights and the rule 
of law must keep pace.
The  right  to  freedom  of  expression  also  means 
keeping  the  Internet  free  and  unrestricted.  In  other 
words, digital freedom of expression in no way differs 
from  freedom  of  expression  in  the  analog  world. 
Censorship, illicit filtering and the online blocking of 
opposition voices thwarts democracy no less than when 
the printed word is censored. 
An open Internet is an amplifier of economic growth 
and thus a crucial element of sustainable development in 
the twenty-first century. That is an essential conclusion, 
incidentally,  of  the  World  Bank’s  World  Development 
Report  2016,  entitled  “Digital  Dividends”,  whose 
preparation  I  co-chaired.  Information  technology  can 
lead  to  transparent  governance  and  economic  growth 
but only if it is open and unfettered.
The  challenges  we  face  in  the  coming  years  are 
enormous.  Estonia  firmly  believes  in  a  rules-based 
international order. The only international organization 
global enough to achieve that end is the United Nations.
Finally, let me say that the 10 times I have appeared 
here over the past decade have been genuinely rewarding 
experiences, and I trust that my successor will continue 
to believe in the work that the Assembly does. I would 
like to thank the members for their attention and for all 
that they have given me.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Estonia for the statement he has just made. 
the 
Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of 
Republic of Estonia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Baron Divavesi Waqa, President of 
the Republic of Nauru
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Nauru.
Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Nauru, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa, 
President of the Republic of Nauru, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly. 
President Waqa: It is an honour to be in this Hall 
for the seventy-first session of the General Assembly. 
On  behalf  of  the  Republic  of  Nauru,  I  would  like  to 
congratulate His Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson on his 
16-29503
3/30
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly. 
It is wonderful to see one of my Pacific Island brothers 
at the helm of this body. Let me assure him of the full 
support  of  my  delegation  as  he  leads  the  important 
work  of  the  Assembly.  I  would  also  like  to  thank 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  our  outgoing 
President, for his exceptional work.
I would like to say to the incoming President that 
his  position  comes  with  enormous  responsibility,  and 
the  upcoming  session  will  be  more  important  than 
most.  Every  time  we  turn  on  the  television,  we  are 
treated  to  images  of  turmoil.  From  violent  extremism 
to  political  upheaval,  to  large-scale  migration  and  a 
climate in chaos, the world is at a crossroads and the 
General Assembly will decide its path. 
for  Sustainable  Development, 
Fortunately,  the  193  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  have  given  us  some  detailed  road  maps  to 
guide  our  work:  the  Small  Island  Developing  States 
Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  Pathway,  the  2030 
Agenda 
the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  the  Addis  Ababa 
Action Agenda on financing for development, and the 
Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction. Those 
universal agreements capture the collective will of the 
international  community.  Such  agreements  point  the 
way towards greater cooperation, and Nauru is deeply 
committed to their full implementation. 
The commitments that we have made to each other 
represent our best efforts to meet the challenges before 
us,  and  we  made  those  commitments  knowing  that 
some  of  us  need  help  to  fulfil  them.  We  agreed  that 
no country should be left behind. Now begins the most 
important  work:  translating  our  words  into  concrete 
action. Our primary task is to direct resources to where 
they will matter most.
We should not underestimate the difficulty of such 
a task. Some international funding mechanisms exclude 
small countries like mine, or prove impossible to access 
because  of  the  limited  capacity  of  small  countries. 
Private  investment  is  unreliable  and  rarely  available 
to  support  basic  services  and  critical  infrastructure. 
Meanwhile,  the  most  promising  financing  models  for 
small developing countries — direct access and direct 
budgetary support, for example  — are rarely available as 
an option. That needs to change, so that small countries 
can fully benefit from the historic agreements we have 
reached.
Nauru is asking a lot from its development partners. 
We  want  to  be  better  partners  ourselves.  Our  efforts 
must,  therefore,  go  beyond  capacity-building  to  focus 
on  institution-building.  Those  efforts  must  be  backed 
by real resources and include the long-term, in-country 
engagement of international and regional agencies. The 
goal must be nothing short of building durable domestic 
institutions that are run by a skilled national workforce. 
On  that  note,  let  me  thank  our  partners  Australia, 
Taiwan,  Japan,  the  Russian  Federation,  Cuba,  New 
Zealand and others for their support to our sustainable 
development priorities.
The  implementation  of  Sustainable  Development 
Goal (SDG) 14 — the sustainable use of the oceans, seas  
and marine resources — is a high priority. The ocean is 
a pillar of our small island economy, our environment 
and  our  culture.  Stresses  on  marine  biodiversity  are 
mounting,  including  those  that  go  beyond  national 
jurisdiction.  The  gaps  in  our  governance  of  the 
oceans must therefore be addressed. We urge a timely 
and  comprehensive  conclusion  of  the  Preparatory 
Committee  process  on  developing  an  international 
instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of 
marine biological biodiversity in areas beyond national 
jurisdiction. The upcoming United Nations Conference 
to  Support  the  Implementation  of  SDG  14  presents  a 
welcome  and  much-needed  opportunity  to  foster  a 
shared  vision  for  a  healthy,  productive  and  resilient 
ocean to guide all our ocean-related activities.
Let me also highlight the importance of the long-
term conservation and sustainable use of our fisheries. 
The parties to the Nauru Agreement are on the cutting 
edge  of  sustainable  fisheries  management.  However, 
the 
that  a 
disproportionate burden of conservation measures does 
not  fall  on  the  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS). 
The burden and costs of those measures must be shared 
equitably.
international  community  must  ensure 
The  full 
implementation  of  our 
international 
commitments  takes  on  much  greater  urgency  in  the 
face of climate change. That is why Nauru was among 
the  first  countries  in  the  world  to  ratify  the  Paris 
Agreement.  It  is  encouraging  to  hear  that  we  are  on 
track  for  the  Agreement’s  entry  into  force  this  year. 
However,  it  is  far  too  early  to  celebrate.  The  Paris 
Agreement is not the end of our climate work. It is only 
the beginning.
4/30 
16-29503
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.13
Greenhouse  gas  emissions  over  the  past  150  year 
have pushed the climate system beyond the boundaries of 
human experience. Brewing superstorms and droughts 
can be as destructive as any bomb. Sea-level rise can 
occupy our territory just as surely as an invading army. 
From the perspective of my small island nation in the 
Pacific,  climate  change  is  our  greatest  humanitarian 
crisis. It is our war, and while Nauru will be among the 
first  to  experience  the  worst  impacts,  climate  change 
will be the rest of the world’s humanitarian challenge 
as well.
The  Paris  Agreement  notwithstanding, 
the 
dangerous climate impacts will continue to grow worse 
over the coming decades. We have little understanding 
of how our human systems will hold up under climate 
stress.  Global  supply  chains,  finance  and  insurance 
markets, food and water distribution — those systems 
are  complex  and  interlinked  and  form  the  foundation 
of  our  modern  civilization.  Climate  change  raises 
some  hard  questions,  and  I  am  not  sure  we  have  the 
answers.  Can  we  feed  a  planet  of  9  billion  people 
when  crop  yields  are  projected  to  fall?  Will  we  learn 
to share declining freshwater resources as the glaciers 
disappear? Will we be able to protect the millions who 
are rendered homeless when low-lying coastal areas are 
inundated?  And  can  these  and  many  other  challenges 
be managed effectively so that we avoid a proliferation 
of failed States?
We are simply not prepared. For that reason, Nauru 
calls on Members to support the proposal by the Pacific 
SIDS to appoint a United Nations special representative 
on  climate  and  security.  The  security  implications  of 
climate change will define the twenty-first century, and 
we must prepare.
Regarding  the  Security  Council,  Nauru  supports 
expanding the number of permanent and non-permanent 
members  in  the  Council.  It  is  time  to  reflect  the 
geopolitical realities of today, not those of 70 years ago. 
The  persistence  of  the  current  arrangement  continues 
to cast a shadow of illegitimacy over everything we do 
at  the  United  Nations.  If  we  are  to  nurture  the  spirit 
of cooperation represented by the historic agreements 
of 2015, then we must reform the most powerful organ 
of  the  United  Nations.  And  we  support  the  inclusion 
of  India,  Japan,  Germany,  Brazil  and  others  in  the 
permanent category.
Nauru  welcomes  the  restored  diplomatic  relations 
between Cuba and the United States. However, we call 
upon the United States to completely lift its economic 
embargo immediately.
Nauru  is  deeply  concerned  about  the  situation 
in  West  Papua,  including  the  alleged  human  rights 
abuses  there.  As  emphasized  in  the  Pacific  Islands 
Forum  communiqué,  it  is  important  that  an  open  and 
constructive dialogue take place with Indonesia on that 
matter.
Nauru is also concerned by the mounting tensions 
provoked by the recent action of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea. The Pacific region saw far too much 
violence and suffering during the previous century. We 
must  not  allow  the  scourge  of  war  to  return.  Nuclear 
proliferation has no place in a sustainable world.
I  would  like  to  address  the  situation  of  Nauru’s 
close friend, Taiwan. According to the Charter of the 
United Nations, our mission here is 
“to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in 
the dignity and worth of the human person, in the 
equal rights of men and women and of nations large 
and small”.
The 23 million people of the Republic of China should 
therefore enjoy those same fundamental rights. Taiwan 
has contributed to the World Health Assembly and the 
International Civil Aviation Organization. The people 
are  promoting  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
domestically and internationally, and they are helping 
to lead the way towards a low-carbon economy. Taiwan 
is a key stakeholder in the international community. We 
should  make  efforts  to  regularize  their  participation 
throughout the United Nations system, so that we can 
all benefit from their substantial contributions.
Lastly,  I  would  like  to  extend  my  country’s  deep 
appreciation  for  the  work  of  the  current  Secretary-
General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon. He has been a true friend 
of small islands. We are thankful for his leadership on 
many  of  the  issues  that  we  hold  most  dear.  His  most 
enduring legacy may perhaps be to have raised climate 
change  to  the  top  of  the  international  agenda,  but  his 
tireless efforts to ensure that no country, no matter how 
small,  is  left  behind  is  just  as  important.  He  was  the 
first sitting Secretary-General to make an official visit 
to Pacific small island developing States, and he has an 
open invitation to visit Nauru.
In conclusion, I want to say that the United Nations 
is  at  a  crossroads.  While  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations is rooted in the equality of nations, we do not 
16-29503
5/30
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
always  live  up  to  that  principle.  There  are  still  times 
when only some of us hold the pen, some sit at the table 
and some are locked out behind a closed door. A small 
group  of  countries  has  the  real  power  to  give  us  the 
necessary push to transform our world. They can make 
sure that resources are directed to where they matter. 
We need those countries to carry forward the goals and 
objectives that we have spent so many years negotiating, 
even in those exclusive rooms when the rest of us are 
not present.
The  power  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  stems  from  its  legitimacy.  It  was  the 
product  of  a  truly  open  and  transparent  process  that 
reflected  the  hopes  and  aspirations  of  all  193  States 
Members of the United Nations. We all sat at the table 
and  held  the  pen  together.  I  implore  our  partners  to 
remember  that.  Now,  we  are  entrusting  the  President 
of the General Assembly with taking that work forward 
and holding us accountable for our commitments. From 
one  Pacific  Islander  to  another,  he  has  our  complete 
confidence. 
May  God  bless  the  Republic  of  Nauru.  May  God 
bless the United Nations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Nauru for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Nauru, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Juan Orlando 
Hernández Alvarado, President of the Republic 
of Honduras
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Honduras.
Mr. Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado, President 
of the Republic of Honduras, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Orlando  Hernández 
Alvarado, President of the Republic of Honduras, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Hernández Alvarado (spoke in Spanish): 
Allow  me  begin  by  congratulating  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  on  his  election  to  guide  this 
organ. I wish him every success for the well-being of 
humankind.
Our  country  is  asking  for  major  reforms  and 
transformations.  We  understand  that  it  is  up  to  our 
generation to shoulder the responsibility of continuing 
to press for the changes that need to take place in order 
to bring about a better world. In 2009, we emerged from 
a  deep  political  crisis  that  had  serious  economic  and 
social consequences, especially for the most vulnerable 
of my people. The economy was in the red. We could 
not  pay  civil  servants.  Economic  growth  decreased, 
poverty  increased.  By  neglecting  security  and  safety, 
homicides  grew  unchecked.  Institutions  were  allowed 
to  become  contaminated  by  drug  trafficking  and 
organized  crime.  We  suffered.  Above  and  beyond  the 
crisis of public confidence in the country’s institutions, 
there was also the fact that Honduras was perceived as 
a very unsafe country by the rest of the world. And so 
we ended up being isolated. 
With much effort, we have been able to restore our 
democracy,  and  today  all  political  points  of  view  in 
Honduras are represented by political parties. Less than 
three years ago, upon a decision taken by the Honduran 
people,  we  began  to  tread  the  right  path.  It  has  not 
been easy. On 27 January 2014, we began restoring our 
country,  with  support  from  various  sectors  of  society 
that  believed  in  our  future.  They  were  betting  on  the 
right  path  —  on  the  construction  of  a  new  Honduras. 
Thirty-two months later, what have we achieved since 
we began that task? 
In the economic field, we have seen a reduction in 
the  fiscal  deficit  to  less  than  5  per  cent  of  the  gross 
domestic  product,  with  sustained  economic  growth, 
whereas  the  larger  economies  in  our  continent  were 
stagnating.  There  has  been  improvement  in  foreign 
investment  and  in  productive  infrastructure.  We  have 
seen an increase in tax revenues. We have also seen an 
improvement in our credit and risk rating. We also have 
a  national  economic  development  programme  called 
Honduras  2020.  It  seeks  to  double  private  investment 
and the number of jobs created over the next 5 years in 
strategic sectors of our national economy.
In  the  area  of  public  safety,  we  have  achieved 
the  dismantling  of  the  main  drug  cartels,  which  were 
responsible for the most tragic violence in the history of 
our country. We have begun to break up the activities of 
criminal bandits, and we have captured 274 ringleaders 
6/30 
16-29503
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.13
of gangs and bandit groups. We began a very positive, 
aggressive process of cleaning up the police. We worked 
on strengthening the Office of the Public Prosecutor and 
the intelligence capacity of the State. We have started 
to fight corruption and impunity, which had been one of 
our primary concerns, and have had notable successes.
In  April  2015,  in  order  to  deepen  that  campaign, 
we implemented, with the support of the Organization 
of  American  States,  a  mission  to  aid  us  in  our  fight 
against corruption and impunity in Honduras. This has 
led to a frontal attack on criminals that has resulted in a 
decline in violence, reflected in a 26 per cent reduction 
in the homicide rate. Most importantly, we have saved 
lives  —  lives  of  thousands  of  our  fellow  citizens.  In 
the  fight  against  organized  crime,  we  have  enjoyed 
close  international  cooperation,  based  on  trust.  We 
have brought before the courts corrupt public servants, 
business owners and people active in the security and 
justice fields who have committed crimes and violations 
of  human  rights.  We  have  extradited,  for  judgment 
outside  the  country,  12  Hondurans  and  5  foreigners 
accused of drug trafficking or organized crime. Today, 
we are no longer the first, second, third, fourth or fifth 
most  violent  country  in  the  world,  according  to  the 
Global Peace Index 2016.
In  the  social  area,  we  have  reached  out  with 
financial  assistance  to  275,000  families  living  in 
extreme poverty in order to improve the indicators for 
the health and education of their minor children. Some 
1.2  million  persons  receive  benefits  to  improve  their 
living  conditions  with  cement  floors,  decent  roofs, 
toilets, eco-friendly stoves and water filters. We have 
reduced  illiteracy  by  expanding  preschool  and  have 
increased the coverage of intermediate and secondary 
education. Approximately 1.2 million children receive 
school lunches, and 1.3 million people have access to 
decentralized health-care services. We have tripled the 
purchasing of medications, attaining an average of 80 per 
cent  of  the  requirements  in  our  public  hospitals.  We 
have launched a campaign against non-communicable 
chronic  diseases,  with  a  focus  on  those  occurring  in 
early infancy, as well as programmes for the prevention 
of adolescent pregnancies.
But  we  recognize  that  much  more  remains  to  be 
done. We must not lose sight of the future. We cannot 
lose our way nor abandon the good path that we have 
set  out  on.  Our  country,  Honduras,  is  committed  to 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. 
Three other issues deserve special attention in this 
debate at the United Nations: climate change, migratory 
flows and the rights of victims.
With  reference  to  climate  change,  Honduras  has 
suffered  three  consecutive  years  of  a  drought  that 
has  affected  food  production  and  endangered  food 
security for nearly 250,000 families. Drought and high 
temperatures have also led to the proliferation of a very 
destructive insect, the southern pine-bark beetle, which 
strips  the  bark  off  pine  trees  and  has  devastated  one 
sixth of our forests.
To deal with those challenges, we have responded 
with  a  food-assistance  programme  directed  towards 
the  families  at  risk,  and  for  three  years  we  have 
experienced  no  famine.  In  those  efforts,  we  have 
received  the  assistance  of  the  United  Nations  and 
friendly Governments, which have contributed financial 
resources  to  complement  our  national  resources.  We 
have also taken action against the pine-bark beetle. We 
are investing our own resources and enjoy the technical 
assistance  of  friendly  countries.  In  addition,  we  have 
begun  a  programme  to  construct  water  reservoirs 
and  irrigation  systems  for  small  farms  in  dry  areas, 
complemented by technical assistance and inputs for our 
farmers. We are developing a comprehensive policy on 
the land, forests and water so that we can successfully 
confront  the  enormous  challenges  that  countries  like 
ours face in climate change.
This  morning,  we  submitted  to  the  Secretary-
General  our  ratification  instrument  for  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  We  Hondurans  have 
complied.  I  wish  to  recall  a  statement  I  made  at  the 
twenty-first  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
held in Paris, to the effect that the accounts were not 
clear, and I must reiterate once more that the accounts 
remain unclear. That is why I would invite the countries 
that  have  not  as  yet  submitted  their  ratification  to  do 
so. I advise the United Nations and other international 
organizations  to  take  prompt  action  to  make  the 
Agreement  effective  so  that  we  will  see  pragmatic 
results  from  the  green  funds.  I  firmly  believe  that 
solutions need to come at the same pace as the problems. 
The accounts will not be clear until we achieve concrete 
results.
On  the  issue  of  migration,  the  growing  economy, 
the creation of economic opportunity, security and the 
response to climate change are all creating better living 
16-29503
7/30
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
conditions for our people in Honduras, and with all that 
we are attacking some of the major causes of irregular 
migration.  The  problems  that  confront  our  countries 
are  becoming  less  national  and  more  transnational 
in  character.  Political  borders  have  become 
less 
significant, and the success of one country increasingly 
depends on that of other countries.
Organized  crime  is  a  transnational  monster.  It 
knows  no  nationality  and  no  scruples.  It  wears  many 
faces  —  the  movement  of  capital,  the  movement  of 
criminals  and  trafficking  in  persons,  weapons  and 
drugs,  among  others.  The  challenges  that  currently 
confront  countries  like  Honduras  are  produced  by 
decisions  and  actions  taken  both  in  the  public  sector 
and  in  the  private  sector.  They  are  of  transnational 
origin  and  have  transnational  consequences.  Clearly, 
they must be resolved in a transnational way.
The  refugee  crisis  and  migratory  flows  are  not 
problems  just  for  a  single  country.  Drug  trafficking 
is  not  a  cause  or  effect  produced  by  a  single  State. 
The  same  holds  true  for  climate  change,  which  is  a 
problem for all of humankind. Owing to our geographic 
position,  Honduras  has  recently  seen  an  alarming 
flow  of  migrants  from  our  continent,  as  well  as  from 
other  continents.  In  just  a  single  year,  the  volume  of 
migratory  flows  through  our  territory  has  increased 
300  per  cent.  In  that  light,  today  I  must  affirm  that 
migration is a global issue of global interest requiring 
a global solution.
the  development 
initiatives 
finding 
Our  Governments  are 
transnational 
solutions  to  our  regional  problems,  for  example  by 
driving  forward 
that 
Honduras,  together  with  El  Salvador,  Guatemala  and 
Nicaragua,  has  launched  with  regard  to  the  Gulf  of 
Fonseca, on the Pacific coast. We have also formalized 
the  first  customs  union  on  the  continent  with  the 
Government of Guatemala. That new economic space 
represents half of the Central American population and 
approximately half of the gross domestic product of our 
region. If we incorporate the other countries of Central 
America into the customs integration initiative, we shall 
together  become  the  seventh  largest  Latin  American 
economy.  Furthermore,  El  Salvador,  Guatemala  and 
Honduras, together with the United States, have created 
an alliance for prosperity. We have invited the United 
Nations, as well as other countries from Latin America, 
Europe  and  Asia,  to  join  in  that  initiative.  Together, 
we  have  also  developed  international  instruments  to 
protect and promote human rights.
However,  in  the  face  of  aggression  by  common 
criminals  and  terrorists,  we  have  failed  to  protect 
the  image  of  the  victims  of  those  attacks.  Quite  the 
contrary, the use of force and the resort to terror and 
violence  have  been  exalted  and  promoted.  That  has 
contaminated respect for the dignity of human persons, 
thanks to the way in which their images and stories have 
been presented by the media. The criminals themselves 
use the media to highlight their violent acts, promoting 
and continuing to perpetrate them. As in other countries 
that have experienced criminal violence, in addition to 
the  pain  of  the  loss  of  human  lives  and  of  losing  our 
peace, we have experienced a sense of injustice when 
the rights of victims and the rights of their relatives and 
friends are not respected.
I ask myself, the Assembly and all of humankind: 
Do the victims of violence have no rights? Is the cruelty 
with which these human beings have been treated not 
apparent?  Where  is  the  sympathy  for  their  family 
and  friends?  Do  they  not  deserve  to  be  respected? 
With  whom  lies  the  responsibility  to  inform  them  of 
such  bloody  events?  What  about  the  responsibilities 
of  those  who  do  not  condemn  the  violence?  Why  is 
the  inheritance  of  the  material  goods  of  the  deceased 
respected, but the protection of their image and dignity 
is not? 
Recently  in  our  country,  Hondurans  witnessed  a 
child taking the hand of his father’s corpse. His father 
had lost his life on a public road as the consequence of 
a  criminal  act.  That  image  was  broadcast  throughout 
all media and social networks. It made me reflect and 
wonder about the extent of the rights of that child. How 
far  do  the  rights  of  the  family  of  that  child  extend?  I 
invite everyone to reflect on that issue, which affects 
not  only  the  victims  but  also  those  closest  to  them. 
Such problems have had a significant impact on entire 
communities and entire generations that have become 
desensitized  to  such  abominable  events  and  grow  up 
considering fear, intimidation and aggression to be part 
of everyday life. I believe that victims, too, have rights. 
Let us reflect upon that.
Today  Honduras  calls  on  Member  States 
to 
work  together  to  face  the  challenges  and  to  be  part 
of  the  solutions.  Today,  the  time  has  come  to  act 
with  determination  and  commitment.  I  invite  the 
Assembly to solve problems together by assuming the 
responsibilities that are incumbent on each of us.
8/30 
16-29503
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.13
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly  I  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Honduras for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado, President 
of the Republic of Honduras, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Her Excellency Ms. Isatou Njie 
Saidy, Vice-President and Minister for 
Women’s Affairs of the Islamic Republic of 
the Gambia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Vice-President and Minister for 
Women’s Affairs of the Islamic Republic of the Gambia.
Ms.  Njie  Saidy,  Vice-President  and  Minister  for 
Women’s  Affairs  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  the 
Gambia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Isatou  Njie  Saidy, 
Vice-President  and  Minister  for  Women’s  Affairs  of 
the Islamic Republic of the Gambia, and inviting her to 
address the Assembly.
Ms.  Njie  Saidy  (Gambia):  First  and  foremost,  I 
bring  greetings  from  His  Excellency  Sheikh  Alhaji 
Yahya  Abdul-Aziz  Jemus  Junkung  Jammeh  Babili 
Mansa, President of the Islamic Republic of the Gambia. 
I have the singular honour of reading out his statement, 
which is as follows: 
“I  bring  fraternal  greetings  from  the  people 
of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  the  Gambia.  I  wish  to 
congratulate Mr. Peter Thomson on his election as 
President of the General Assembly at its seventy-
first session, an important and coveted position. His 
election is an eloquent testimony to his diplomatic 
acumen, and I can assure him of the support of the 
Gambian people, including the Gambian delegation 
here present, during his stewardship.
“In  the  same  vein,  I  wish  to  express  deep 
appreciation 
to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Mogens 
Lykketoft,  for  the  able  and  efficient  manner  in 
which  he  conducted  the  affairs  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventieth session. He will surely 
be  remembered  for  the  bold  and  major  initiatives 
that were launched during his tenure as President. 
I also wish to extend sincere thanks to Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  tireless  efforts  in 
pursuit of world peace and economic progress over 
the past decade.
“The  world  is  at  a  crossroads.  Since  the 
previous  General  Assembly  session,  global  peace 
and security have steadily deteriorated. Wars in the 
Middle East have intensified with alarming ferocity 
and  unprecedented  human  casualties.  In  Africa, 
fratricidal wars in the Horn of Africa and in Libya 
pose the greatest threat to peace and stability on the 
continent. It is also a source of great concern that, 
despite the dangerous situations in Syria, Iraq and 
Libya,  geopolitical  interests  continue  to  override 
humanitarian  considerations.  Unless  concrete 
action is taken now, places like Aleppo, Mosul and 
Tripoli will soon cease to be human habitats.
“In Africa, the protracted war in Somalia and 
the armed conflict between political rivals in South 
Sudan  continue  to  blight  the  political  landscape 
with  untold  human  suffering.  To  complicate  an 
already  difficult  situation,  the  impasse  in  Darfur 
and the frequent outbreaks of fighting in the Central 
African Republic and Burundi pose a serious threat 
to the civilian population, particularly women and 
children.  I  appeal  to  my  brothers  and  sisters  in 
those  African  countries  to  eschew  violence  and 
embrace  reconciliation.  As  leaders  of  our  people, 
we must always remember that history will judge 
us kindly only if we are magnanimous and devoted 
to the welfare and well-being of our people.
“We  cannot,  of  course,  discuss  international 
peace and security without addressing the lingering 
and unresolved Palestinian problem. The time has 
come, and is indeed overdue, for Israel to heed the 
overwhelming  international  consensus  for  a  two-
State  solution  as  the  only  viable  option  that  can 
ensure  peaceful  coexistence  between  Israel  and 
Palestine.
“The  fragile  peace  that  we  enjoy  is  being 
seriously  undermined  by  terrorism,  which  has 
assumed a global dimension, with the killing and 
maiming of innocent people. Today, we remember 
with sadness all the victims of terrorism who have 
been gunned down or maimed by bombs in Paris, 
Brussels,  Bamako,  Ouagadougou  and  Pakistan, 
inter  alia,  around  the  globe.  It  is  therefore  not 
an  exaggeration  to  say  that  the  world  is  in  grave 
16-29503
9/30
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
danger  and  that  our  human  existence  is  under 
serious  threat  as  a  result.  Collective  action  is  the 
best way to fight that global scourge.
“We  are  also  greatly  concerned  that  certain 
rogue  politicians  and  pseudo-intellectuals  with 
nefarious  intentions  are  using  the  terrorism  card 
to  revive  and  propagate  the  notion  of  a  clash  of 
civilizations  in  which  Islam  is  at  war  with  the 
West. Their incendiary rhetoric lambasting Islam is 
unacceptable and can serve only to further polarize 
the world. The evil actions of a group of individuals 
claiming  adherence  to  Islam  cannot  be  taken  to 
represent the convictions of the majority. There is 
no  clash  between  Islam  and  the  other  Abrahamic 
religions  of  Christianity  and  Judaism,  and  there 
is  certainly  no  war  between  Islam  and  the  world. 
We condemn the renegade forces of terrorism and 
reject  their  campaign  to  create  a  nexus  between 
terrorism and Islam.
“While  we  express  anxiety  over  global 
insecurity, we must also focus on global economic 
conditions.  A  world  that  is  marked  by  disparities 
and divided into zones of the affluent and the poor 
cannot enjoy durable peace and security. A world 
in which the conspicuous consumption of the few 
overshadows the abject poverty of the majority can 
only be a world of the powerful against the weak 
and of mutual animosity, mistrust and tensions. It 
is for those reasons and owing to our quest for a just 
and  equitable  world  that  we  support  the  theme  of 
the current session of the General Assembly: ‘The 
Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a  universal  push 
to transform our world’.
“Under  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  the  Gambia  registered 
significant  progress  in  its  development  agenda. 
I  am  happy  and  proud  to  state  that  hunger  has 
been  eradicated  in  our  country,  and  the  level  of 
undernourishment  has  decreased  from  13  per 
cent  to  3  per  cent.  Our  ultimate  aim  is  to  make 
agriculture  attractive  and  profitable  through  our 
back-to-the-land  policy,  so  that  our  people  can 
work and live in dignity.
“The  future  of  Africa  and  indeed  the  world 
is inextricably linked to women as well as youth. 
Unfortunately, Africa is losing its young population 
because of migration. Our villages, towns and cities 
are being deserted as young people attempt to sail 
to what is wrongly perceived as the new El Dorado. 
Thousands  have  perished  at  sea,  while  thousands 
more  are  languishing  in  detention  centres  in 
Europe. That is an unprecedented depletion of our 
human  resources  and  is  bound  to  have  disastrous 
consequences  if  allowed  to  continue.  Given  that 
disturbing phenomenon, international cooperation 
that would create jobs for youth should no longer 
be a slogan but a calculated strategy to keep them 
at home in gainful employment that could enhance 
their  well-being  and  ensure  the  development  of 
their countries.
“The  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change, 
which the Islamic Republic of the Gambia signed 
together with the entire membership of the United 
Nations,  is  a  landmark  in  our  human  evolution. 
It  shows  that,  despite  the  imperfections  of  our 
Organization  and  our  ideological  differences,  we 
are  without  a  doubt  capable  of  forging  a  global 
partnership 
to  deal  with  a  common  danger. 
The  negotiations  were  protracted  and  at  times 
acrimonious,  but  in  the  end  our  common  desire 
to save our planet prevailed. I wish to pay tribute 
to  all  the  men  and  women  who  worked  with 
dedication  and  sacrifice  to  ensure  the  success  of 
the negotiations.
“Although  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  was  a  success, 
the  magnitude  and 
complexities  of  other  challenges  facing  the  world 
have  again  brought  into  sharp  focus  the  role  of 
the  United  Nations  and  its  capacity  to  address 
and  advance  international  peace,  security  and 
development.  That  brings  to  mind  the  repeated 
calls  of  Member  States  for  Security  Council  and 
broader United Nations reforms in order to enable 
the  Organization  to  confront  new  and  emerging 
challenges.  The  current  composition  of 
the 
Security  Council,  with  five  permanent  members 
holding  the  veto  power,  is  undemocratic,  and 
the  system  is  akin  to  minority  rule.  A  situation 
in  which  five  countries  dictate  the  political  and 
economic  agenda  and  landscape  of  the  world  and 
can  override  international  consensus  by  veto  is 
indeed an anachronism.
“Africa  has  the  highest  representation  in  the 
General  Assembly,  yet  that  continent,  with  over 
1.2  billion  people,  has  been  denied  the  right  to 
a  permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council.  The 
Islamic  Republic  of  the  Gambia  therefore  once 
10/30 
16-29503
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.13
again  calls  for  the  expansion  of  the  Security 
Council to facilitate the allocation to Africa of two 
permanent  seats  with  veto  power  and  two  other 
non-permanent seats. 
“Africa’s 
legitimate  demands  have  been 
well  documented  and  articulated  in  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration.  A  well-
structured  and  fully  inclusive  United  Nations  is 
what the world needs, and Africa is ready to take its 
rightful place and play a more pivotal and effective 
role in world affairs. 
the 
“The  significance  of 
reforms  being 
envisaged calls for boldness and strong leadership. 
That  is  why  we  attach  great  importance  to  the 
election  of  the  next  Secretary-General.  It  is  our 
hope  that  he  or  she  will  combine  the  legacies  of 
his or her predecessors with the qualities of vision, 
fair  play  and  equity.  We  always  expect  the  new 
Secretary-General  to  be  the  people’s  Secretary-
General  and  not  the  servant  of  the  powerful  five 
alone. The Secretary-General must be the voice of 
the voiceless and the chief advocate of the people of 
the world. We therefore look to the new Secretary-
General to provide a visionary leadership that will 
settle  old  problems  and  disputes  in  a  new  era  of 
peace, progress and prosperity.
“The  failure  to  address  and  settle  age-old 
injustices  is  responsible  for  some  of  our  major 
problems  in  the  world  today.  I  am  referring  to 
the historical injustices of slavery, the slave trade 
and  colonialism.  For  far  too  long,  slave-trading 
nations  and  colonialists  have  stubbornly  defied 
good  conscience,  which  would  compel 
them 
to  acknowledge  the  evil  nature  of  their  actions 
and  atone  for  the  atrocities  that  were  committed 
against  Africans  and  people  of  African  descent. 
The African continent was plundered and pillaged, 
while millions of its inhabitants were trafficked to 
North  America  and  the  Caribbean.  For  centuries, 
they were exploited as slave labour in plantations, 
fuelling 
the  slave-owning 
countries.  Those  acts  of  enslavement  and  forced 
labour  provide  empirical  evidence 
the 
economic  foundation  of  the  Western  economies 
was built by enslaved Africans.
industries  of 
the 
that 
“There is also irrefutable evidence that, despite 
their providing free labour, African slaves suffered 
discrimination,  exploitation,  torture  and  death  at 
the hands of their ruthless owners. The effects of 
the inhumane treatment that  they  suffered  can be 
traced  in  their  offspring.  Even  today,  the  slavery 
syndrome continues to impact and shape the lives 
and  circumstances  of  Africans  and  people  of 
African  descent.  To  us  who  are  affected  by  that 
phenomenon, slavery is a painful legacy. Yet there 
are those who question the merits of reparations.
“Although there have been pleas of innocence, 
there have also been notable pleas of guilt, as well. 
In 2006, for example, Tony Blair, the then British 
Prime  Minister,  apologized  for  his  country’s  role 
in the transatlantic slave trade. The Assembly will 
recall that in 2007, Ken Livingstone, the Mayor of 
London at the time, acknowledged that the wealth 
generated from the slave trade was responsible for 
the  economic  prosperity  of  England.  But  perhaps 
the best illustration of guilt was the proposal in the 
1860s by General William Sherman of the United 
States  Army  that  every  freed  slave  in  the  United 
States  should  be  given  40  acres  and  a  mule  as 
compensation.  Sadly,  President  Andrew  Johnson 
and  the  United  States  Congress  rejected  the  idea 
at the time.
“That  was  the  beginning  of  the  resistance 
against  reparations.  Yet,  over  time,  we  have  had 
several  global 
reparations.  America,  Britain, 
Germany  and  Japan  have  seen  the  need  for 
and  prudence  of  paying  reparations  for  crimes 
committed  against  other  countries  and  peoples. 
Germany, for example, we all recall, paid $60 billion 
to  survivors  of  the  Holocaust,  and  the  Jewish 
Reparation Fund exists as well. The United States 
paid  $20,000  each  to  10,000  Japanese  Americans 
who were sent to internment camps. Similarly, the 
United  States  has  compensated  native  tribes  for 
broken treaties. Japan has paid Second World War 
reparations to its former colonial possessions, such 
as Korea. It should also be noted that Britain has 
paid reparations to the Maoris of New Zealand for 
damage done during colonial times. More recently, 
Iraq has paid compensation to Kuwait for damages 
that it caused during its invasion and occupation of 
that country in 1990. 
“Why  then  should  Africans  and  people  of 
African descent be ineligible for reparations, after 
suffering  the  historic  injustices  of  slavery,  the 
slave  trade  and  colonialism?  Apart  from  historic 
precedents, there is merit, of course, in the call for 
16-29503
11/30
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
reparations for damages caused during colonialism. 
Many  of  the  problems  confronting  the  former 
colonies  today  are  the  direct  consequences  of  the 
actions  of  the  former  colonial  Powers.  A  vivid 
illustration  of  how  colonizers  destroyed  Africa  is 
the  way  in  which  the  continent  was  divided  and 
shared  out.  The  balkanization  of  Africa  did  not 
respect the territorial integrity of countries; nor did 
it  consider  tribal  boundaries,  or  trade  groups  for 
that matter.
“The  division  of  Africa  was  arbitrary,  taking 
into account the best interests of the colonizers. As 
a  result,  the  geography  of  countries  was  altered. 
Children  and  kin  became  separated,  customs  and 
traditions destroyed and the most valuable artefacts 
carted away to Western museums. Africa was indeed 
torn apart, its people displaced and disintegrated, 
and  the  continent  as  a  whole  weakened  forever. 
Reparations  are  therefore  justified  because  they 
would  demonstrate  remorse  and  symbolize  the 
healing of the wounds of colonialism. Reparations 
would also be an effective way to correct the global 
economic imbalances caused by colonialism.
“It is therefore with a deep sense of mission and 
moral imperative that I ask the General Assembly 
to  accept  the  case  of  slavery  and  colonialism  as 
a  global  issue  that  should  be  addressed  without 
equivocation.  The  African  Union  has  given  the 
matter its full support, and all well-meaning people 
around the world expect a favourable response from 
the  international  community  to  such  a  legitimate 
cause  in  preparation  for  the  discussions  and 
debates  that  would  ensue.  We  recently  concluded 
consultations at an international colloquium on the 
subject  in  Banjul,  our  capital,  where  a  road  map 
was presented on the way forward. The Group of 
African  States  at  the  United  Nations  is  already 
working on a draft resolution on slavery, the slave 
trade, colonialism and reparations, to be introduced 
before the Assembly at this session. I appeal to all 
to support the adoption of that draft resolution and 
restore the dignity of our African ancestors. 
“In  conclusion,  I  encourage  the  Assembly 
to  use  this  opportunity  to  once  again  address  the 
burning issues of our time. The people of the world 
are  in  need  of  durable  peace.  We  need  inclusive 
dialogue  to  resolve  our  problems  and  differences 
and  forge  partnerships  that  will  improve  our 
human conditions. The security of our world can be 
assured  only  if  we  establish  genuine  and  friendly 
relations  based  on  mutual  respect  for  the  dignity 
of our people and the sovereignty of our nations. I 
wish the Assembly a successful session.”
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  and 
Minister for Women’s Affairs of the Islamic Republic 
of the Gambia for the statement she has just made.
Ms. Isatou Njie Saidy, Vice-President and Minister 
for Women’s Affairs of the Islamic Republic of the 
Gambia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Hailemariam Dessalegn, Prime 
Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic 
of Ethiopia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal 
Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.
Mr.  Hailemariam  Dessalegn,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Hailemariam Dessalegn, 
Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of 
Ethiopia, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Dessalegn  (Ethiopia):  At  the  outset,  let  me 
congratulate  the  President  on  his  assumption  of  his 
high office to preside over the General Assembly at its 
seventy-first  session.  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity 
to assure him of our support in the effective discharge 
of  his  responsibilities.  I  would  also  like  to  express 
appreciation 
to  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  who  steered  the  work  of  the 
historic seventieth session.
Since  the  Secretary-General  has  addressed  the 
Assembly at its general debate for the last time, allow 
me to express, on behalf of the people and Government 
of Ethiopia and on my own behalf, sincere appreciation 
to  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  tireless  service  to  our 
Organization  over  the  past  decade.  We  cherish  his 
friendship with Ethiopia and with Africa as a whole, and 
we wish him all the very best in his future endeavours.
The past year has indeed been historic in more ways 
than one. It has been a time when we have reflected on 
our journey over the past 70 years and taken decisive 
steps  towards  ensuring  the  peace  and  prosperity  of 
12/30 
16-29503
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.13
our  peoples  and  the  protection  of  our  environment. 
We have seen what the United Nations can deliver as a 
unique intergovernmental platform for a common and 
collective  response  to  the  myriad  challenges  facing 
humankind as a whole. It has been testament to the fact 
that we can indeed achieve concrete results, if we set 
aside, or at least manage, our differences and act for the 
common good.
Now  is,  of  course,  the  time  for  action,  so  that 
the  transformative  decisions  that  we  took  last  year 
will  have  real  meaning  in  the  lives  of  our  people. 
We  recognize  the  small  but  encouraging  steps  taken 
towards  the  implementation  of  our  decisions  in  many 
of  the  domains.  For  our  part,  for  instance,  not  only 
have we integrated the Sustainable Development Goals 
into our national development plans, but we have also 
embarked  on  implementing  them.  The  ratification  of 
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change is also a major 
priority, and we will expedite the process as soon as our 
Parliament opens its session at the end of this month.
To  say  that  the  world  is  currently  confronting 
unprecedented challenges would be an understatement. 
Without  a  doubt,  there  are  enormous  implications  for 
the implementation of the ambitious and transformative 
agendas  that  we  set  out  last  year.  International  peace 
and  stability  are  facing  greater  risks  with  the  rise  of 
geopolitical tensions and the growing threats posed by 
all  shades  of  terrorist  groups  and  other  transnational 
criminal  networks.  The  world  economy  has  not  yet 
come out of its crisis, and growing inequality is creating 
a lot of frustration, paving the way for the resurgence 
of populism.
While  social  media  offer  a  digital  platform  to 
improve  the  exchange  of  information  and  enhance 
popular participation, their attendant negative impacts 
cannot simply be ignored. In fact, we are seeing how 
misinformation  can  easily  go  viral  via  social  media 
and  mislead  many  people,  especially  youth,  who  are 
our  future.  Social  media  have  certainly  empowered 
populists  and  other  extremists  to  exploit  people’s 
genuine concerns and spread their message of hate and 
bigotry without any inhibition.
We would be the first to admit that countries need 
to assume ownership of their problems. Externalizing 
the sources of setbacks and seeking external causes for 
one’s national shortcomings is an approach to problem-
solving whose results can only be pregnant with danger. 
But it is vital to underline a critical matter that is usually 
given short shrift, both by the media and others. It is 
simply  hypocritical  to  deny  that  some  countries  have 
been  the  targets  of  destabilization  activities  carried 
out  without  accountability  by  people  and  groups  that 
have been given shelter by friendly States. The abuse 
of opportunities created by the social media and other 
media  outlets  financed  by  friendly  Governments  has 
become  flagrant.  It  is  just  plain  foolish  to  deny  that 
such abuses have no implications for the respect of the 
human rights of our people or that such abuse does not 
undermine  our  capacity  to  ensure  that  we  maintain  a 
high standard in that respect.
The  fragile  nature  of  our  environment  has  also 
been  evident.  The  drought  induced  by  the  El  Niño-
Southern  Oscillation  has  affected  the  livelihood  of 
millions  of  people,  including  our  own,  all  across  the 
world. The current drought is happening at a time when 
humanitarian  needs  have  become  enormous  because 
of  other  emergency  situations.  In  addition,  the  large 
movements  of  refugees  and  migrants  have  led  to  a 
major crisis. Such movements are a matter that we have 
discussed at length over the past few days.
It  is  in  such  challenging  circumstances  that  we 
are  striving  to  implement  a  transformational  agenda. 
Obviously, there are no easy solutions to the complex 
challenges  at  hand.  The  situation  is  much  more 
pronounced  for  the  least  developed  countries  like  us 
that are making every possible effort to make a dent on 
poverty. We are trying to escape from the poverty trap 
and take our country on a path of sustainable growth, 
but there are bound to be twists and turns in our efforts. 
The successful development experiences of others have 
shown that such twists and turns are only natural. 
What we need is to have a policy space that allows 
us to make mistakes and learn from them. We believe 
that our vision is right, and we are determined to get 
to our goal. Whatever challenges and shortcomings we 
may have, we do not have an issue owning up to them, 
and we will make every possible effort to deal with our 
shortcomings with the close consultation, cooperation 
and  participation  of  our  people.  There  is  no  better 
testimony of the resolve that we have in that regard than 
the way in which we have handled the tragedies caused 
by the El Niño-Southern Oscillation.
Nevertheless,  we  know  that  we  are  not  living  in 
isolation, and we need a favourable external environment 
in  order  to  realize  our  development  aspirations.  We 
cannot  simply  wish  away  the  challenges  that  I  have 
16-29503
13/30
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
outlined.  They  need  the  collective  and  coordinated 
responses of all of us, and for our part we are always 
ready and willing to continue to contribute positively in 
close partnership with others in our region and beyond 
in tackling such challenges.
In that context, peace and security in the Horn of 
Africa are extremely critical for us, and we are doing 
everything we can with others in the region to tackle 
the conflicts afflicting our neighbours. We have been 
making  tremendous  efforts  to  assist  South  Sudan  to 
resolve  its  internal  problems.  What  happened  in  July 
was indeed a serious setback for the implementation of 
the  peace  agreement  that  the  South  Sudanese  parties  
had signed under the auspices of the Intergovernmental 
Authority  on  Development  (IGAD)  Plus.  We  in  the 
IGAD region met on a number of occasions at various 
levels to address the issue and made concrete proposals 
on the way forward. The proposals were subsequently 
supported  by  the  African  Union  and  the  United 
Nations. We are confident and hopeful that the South 
Sudanese parties will heed the call of the regional and 
international  communities  and  restore  peace  for  the 
sake of their people, who have suffered so much.
In  addition,  we  have  also  been  making  efforts  to 
fight  terrorism  in  and  pacify  Somalia.  In  spite  of  the 
many challenges that persist, Somalia has indeed come 
a  long  way.  The  symbolic  significance  of  the  IGAD 
extraordinary  summit  held  recently  in  Mogadishu 
cannot  be  overemphasized.  Who  would  have  thought 
that  this  would  be  possible  only  a  few  years  ago? 
Somalia  has  defied  the  odds.  We  hope  that  smooth 
elections  in  the  coming  months  will  consolidate  the 
gains made in recent years and lay the foundation for 
a  peaceful  and  stable  Somalia.  The  countries  in  the 
region are ready to support and accompany the process 
together  with  the  African  Union,  the  United  Nations 
and other international partners.
Ethiopia  is  indeed  honoured  to  have  been  elected 
as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council 
for the 2017-2018 term. Let me take this opportunity to 
express our profound appreciation to all the Members 
of the United Nations for their support and confidence. 
remarks  by 
reaffirming our commitment to effectively discharging 
our  responsibilities  and  upholding  the  principles  and 
purposes of the United Nations Charter.
to  conclude  my 
I  would 
like 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia  for  the 
statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Hailemariam  Dessalegn,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, was 
escorted from the rostrum. 
Address by Mr. Dacian Cioloș, Prime Minister 
of Romania 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Romania.
Mr.  Dacian  Cioloș,  Prime  Minister  of  Romania, 
was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Dacian Cioloș, Prime 
Minister of Romania, and inviting him to address the 
Assembly. 
Mr. Cioloș (Romania) (spoke in French): More than 
ever, the world is confronting challenges that demand 
global  solutions.  Persistent,  chronic  conflicts,  the 
scourge of terrorism, natural disasters, poverty, social 
exclusion and displaced populations are all challenges 
that  we  must  approach  in  a  sustainable  and  globally 
oriented manner.
Our  world  is  increasingly  compelled  to  find 
inclusive solutions. We cannot enjoy peace and security 
without  development.  The  Sustainable  Development 
Goals (SDGs) provide us with a new opportunity and 
a universal impetus to transform the world. The SDGs 
set an ambitious programme of action for the years to 
come,  aimed  at  eradicating  extreme  poverty,  fighting 
for  peace  and  security,  combating  inequality  and 
protecting the planet. 
We need to integrate the various strategies relating 
to  climate  change,  development,  humanitarian  aid, 
the  eradication  of  hunger,  economic  growth  and 
peacebuilding. The political direction that we have set 
out  for  our  social,  industrial  and  agricultural  policies 
will have an impact in one way or another on sustainable 
development. The experiences of the past show us that 
using purely isolated, sectorial policies will create more 
problems than solutions. 
In  Romania,  we  have  launched  the  process  of 
transforming  the  SDGs  into  national  policies.  We 
are  concentrating  on  taking  on  environmental  and 
climate-change issues in sector-specific policies, while 
also developing a comprehensive approach. We want to 
14/30 
16-29503
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.13
ensure the transition to a circular and green economy 
by  specifically  focusing  on  the  good  governance  of 
natural resources and naturally protected areas, which 
cover 25 per cent of our territory. 
The implementation of the SDGs and the transition 
to  a  green  economy  provide  the  only  means  of 
ensuring  a  sustainable,  inclusive  and  decent  life  for 
our citizens. We believe that a cross-cutting approach 
to  energy,  environmental  and  agricultural  policies,  as 
well as climate issues, is essential in order to achieve 
the  SDGs.  For  example,  in  the  area  of  housing  and 
energy efficiency, we recently adopted a programme to 
promote  green  technologies  and  materials.  This  year, 
we  also  adopted  a  national  anti-poverty  package  that 
includes specific measures to fight social exclusion and 
help vulnerable children. 
Development will become unsustainable if it is not 
inclusive in terms of both content and implementation. 
That  is  why  we  have  invested  significantly  in  open 
governance  tools  involving  civil  society  and  the 
business world.
(spoke in English)
Events in South-East Europe over the past two years 
have  served  to  highlight  complex  security  challenges 
in  the  vicinity  of  my  country  and  are,  without  any 
doubt,  responsible  for  the  reversals  in  our  progress 
towards  sustainable  development.  The  belt  of  frozen 
conflict zones around the Black Sea remains a serious, 
permanent threat to stability in the region and beyond. 
Prosperity and respect for the principles and norms of 
international law have been put on hold. We are deeply 
troubled  by  the  use  of  hybrid  warfare  tactics  and  the 
illegal annexation of territories.
The  growing  instability  in  the  Middle  East, 
with  Syria  as  the  epicentre,  is  a  major  source  of 
proliferating  terrorism  and  massive  migration.  It  is  a 
threat  not  only  to  the  region  but  to  the  entire  world, 
and  it  must  be  addressed  resolutely.  We  need  to 
encourage  reconciliation  in  the  countries  affected  by 
instability by establishing policies aimed at promoting 
bridges  between  communities,  while  ensuring  proper 
representation  and 
inclusiveness.  We  must  focus 
increased  attention  on  post-conflict  reconstruction 
strategies based on the Sustainable Development Goals 
and their Targets for Syria, Iraq, Libya and Yemen and 
continue discussions with all the stakeholders involved 
on  the  necessary  institutional  process  and  financial 
contributions. 
Romania  is  convinced  that  resolving  the  Israeli-
Palestinian conflict is one of the most important tasks 
facing  us;  it  could  signal  a  turning  point  on  the  road 
back to stabilization and respect for fundamental rights, 
mutual acceptance and prosperity.
My  country  remains  committed  to  the  United 
Nations  effort  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security. Romania has long been a contributor to United 
Nations  peacekeeping.  At  present,  Romanian  military 
and police forces are taking part in ten United Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  and  two  special  political 
missions.
is  currently  chairing 
Peace  and  security  cannot  be  sustained  if  the 
potential threat of the proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction  persists,  particularly  nuclear  weapons. 
Romania 
the  Preparatory 
Commission  for 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-
Ban  Treaty  Organization  and  has  been  clear  in  its 
condemnation of the nuclear and ballistic tests carried 
out by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea this 
year.
I  would  also  like  to  underline  the  importance  of 
rethinking the relationship between humanitarian and 
development  policies  as  an  opportunity  to  find  new 
solutions  and  responses.  It  is  our  responsibility  to 
build on existing regional experiences and initiatives, 
some of which have emerged in the follow-up process 
to  the  Istanbul  Humanitarian  Summit.  We  need  to 
move  beyond  sectoral  approaches  in  trade  policy; 
address  climate  change,  hunger  and  poverty;  ensure 
food  production  and  economic  growth;  and  find  a 
more inclusive institutional framework to put forward 
integrated solutions. Romania is stepping up its effort to 
respond to those challenges in the spirit of international 
solidarity and responsibility-sharing and in accordance 
with our legal and moral obligations. Let me make three 
brief points to highlight our main lines of action.
First,  as  an  emerging  donor  and  a  country  of 
resettlement,  Romania  has  been  working  to  expand 
its  contribution  to  international  humanitarian  actions 
in recent years by increasing its resettlement capacity 
and financial assistance. Secondly, Romania continues 
to advocate for strengthening respect for international 
humanitarian  law  and  constructive  engagement  in 
debates  on  possible  ways  to  improve  compliance. 
Thirdly, in its capacity as President of the Conference 
of the Parties to the United Nations Convention against 
Transnational Organized Crime for the seventh session, 
16-29503
15/30
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
Romania encourages greater accountability with regard 
to  the  implementation  of  the  Convention’s  provisions 
on  human  trafficking  and  the  smuggling  of  migrants, 
among other areas.
Mr. El Haycen (Mauritania), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
Outrageous  terrorist  attacks  have  shocked  the 
world  this  year,  reminding  us  time  and  again  that 
international terrorism undermines peace and security 
wherever it occurs. We cannot let terrorists take hold. 
Terrorist groups cannot be countered through military 
actions alone; we must also address the ability of such 
groups  to  attract  recruits,  particularly  young  people. 
We  must  eliminate  the  root  causes  that  have  allowed 
such  groups  to  develop  in  the  first  place.  Preventing 
radicalization  is  key,  with  action  targeted  on  the 
underlying  socioeconomic  conditions  of  communities 
where individuals are most vulnerable to radicalization 
and recruitment. We need more effective communication 
and education tools.
I commend the considerable progress achieved over 
the past few months in the fight against Da’esh in Libya, 
Iraq and Syria. It is of the utmost urgency to deny them 
safe haven in other areas and by every means possible 
to stop the flows of foreign fighters from joining them. 
But that is only the first step. The liberated areas need 
reconstruction and stabilization.
For some time now, Romania has been promoting the 
idea that the response to terrorism requires multilateral 
action, based on international law. That is why Romania 
and  Spain  have  suggested  the  establishment  of  an 
international  court  for  acts  of  terrorism  as  a  means 
of  ensuring  accountability  for  the  horrific  crimes  we 
continue to witness.
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
appreciation  for  the  outstanding  contribution  made 
by  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon,  and  for  the  active  role  he  has  played  in 
strengthening the position of the United Nations in the 
international arena and promoting peace, stability and 
sustainable development. His leadership at the helm of 
the Organization has been an inspiration to numerous 
people around the world.
My country is committed to continuing to devote 
substantial  political,  diplomatic,  human  and  financial 
resources to regional and global stability, in support of 
United Nations efforts in the maintenance of peace and 
security.  That  is  why  Romania  has  announced  its  bid 
for a seat as a non-permanent member of the Security 
Council for the 2020-2021 term. I strongly believe that 
Romania’s experience and solid track record in building 
bridges and trust among all Member States will make 
a valuable contribution to the Security Council’s work.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of Romania for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Dacian  Cioloș,  Prime  Minister  of  Romania, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of 
the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh.
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  Her  Excellency  Sheikh 
Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
Bangladesh,  and  inviting  her  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Sheikh  Hasina  (Bangladesh)  (spoke  in  Bangla; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  gives  me 
great  pleasure  to  congratulate  Mr.  Thomson  on  his 
election as President of General Assembly at its seventy-
first session. I commend the exemplary manner of his 
predecessor, Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, who presided over 
the Assembly last year.
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  marks 
the 
completion  of  his  tenure  this  year.  I  recall  our  many 
meetings  and  conversations  on  a  host  of  important 
issues. Always a true and trusted friend, he recognized 
Bangladesh’s  development  gains  as  a  model  for  the 
rest of the world. I wish him and Mrs. Ban continued 
success and good health.
Bangladesh’s  Father  of  the  Nation,  Bangabandhu 
Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, standing before the General 
Assembly in 1974, stated: 
“Our  total  commitment  to  peace  is  born  of  the 
realization  that  only  an  environment  of  peace 
would  enable  us  to  ...  mobilize  and  concentrate 
all  our  energies  and  resources  in  combating  the 
16/30 
16-29503
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.13
scourges of poverty, hunger, disease, illiteracy and 
unemployment.” (A/PV.2243, para. 12)
Our  world  is  now  at  a  juncture  where  the  end  of 
those scourges is in sight. There are many creative and 
practical solutions in our hands. The amazing power of 
technology, ideas and global citizens help us to imagine 
a brave new world. Yet our world is not free from tension 
and fear. Violent conflicts continue to rage in several 
places, with a heavy toll on human lives. Those fleeing 
from  the  conflicts  are  often  denied  protection  across 
borders. Dire humanitarian needs are at times ignored 
and access to those in need is blocked. What was the 
crime  of  Aylan  Kurdi,  the  innocent  3-year-old  Syrian 
boy who drowned at sea? What was the fault of 5-year-
old  Omran  Daqneesh,  who  was  seriously  wounded  in 
his hometown of Aleppo by an air strike? As a mother, 
it is indeed hard to understand those cruelties. Will our 
global conscience not be stirred by such events?
We  have  just  concluded  the  historic  summit  for 
refugees  and  migrants.  The  outcome  of  the  summit 
should help redefine perceptions and realities of human 
mobility  in  our  time.  Migrants  and  refugees  must 
be  seen  as  potential  agents  for  change  both  in  their 
places of origin and destination. Bangladesh offers to 
co-facilitate  the  work  of  the  global  compact  for  safe, 
orderly  and  regular  migration.  We  look  forward  to  a 
constructive dialogue on all related issues at the Global 
Forum on Migration and Development, which we will 
host in December.
In 2015, we adopted a transformative development 
agenda  with  a  set  of  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs). The political will behind the agenda needs to 
be translated into concrete and meaningful support for 
countries that are lagging behind. In order to catch up, 
the  developing  world  needs  access  to  transformative 
technologies.  The  internationally  agreed  development 
commitments for the least developed countries (LDCs) 
must  be  fulfilled  in  order  to  pave  the  way  for  their 
graduation. The Technology Bank for the LDCs should 
be  geared  to  promoting  innovation  and  predictable 
resource flows.
In  Bangladesh,  we  have  already  mainstreamed 
most of the SDGs into our national development plans. 
A platform under the supervision of the Prime Minister 
has been created to coordinate and monitor the work. 
Consultations are now ongoing with local government, 
civil  society,  media  and  academia.  They  are  being 
carried out in tandem with our Vision 2021 and Vision 
2041  policies,  which  seek  to  realize  Bangabandhu 
Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s dream of building a “Sonar”, 
or Golden Bangladesh, that is free from hunger, poverty, 
illiteracy and exploitation.
Our  aim  is  to  build  an  inclusive,  empowered, 
digital and knowledge-based society. My Government 
is focusing on innovative public service delivery, mass 
access to information, and enhanced transparency and 
accountability.  We  have  set  up  about  10,000  digital 
centres  across  the  country  in  order  to  deliver  200 
different services to people’s doorsteps. Health services 
through  mobile  phones  and  a  24-hour  web  portal  are 
complementing  the  work  of  16,438  community  and 
local health clinics. Digital laboratories and multimedia 
classrooms  are  operating  in  a  growing  number  of 
educational institutions.
The  growing  web  of  physical  and  virtual 
connectivity  is  creating  new  opportunities  for  our 
people.  As  a  key  enabler  of  economic  development, 
broadband  connectivity  should  be  available  to  every 
citizen  of  the  world.  I  invite  world  leaders  and  other 
international  partners  to  join  hands  in  making  this 
possible.  Our  Government  is  committed  to  providing 
a voice and data connection to every citizen by 2021.
Bangladesh’s strategic location makes it an emerging 
hub  for  regional  connectivity,  foreign  investment  and 
global  outsourcing.  We  have  embarked  on  large-scale 
infrastructure  projects  to  match  our  development 
aspirations.  Multimodal  transport  networks  are  being 
built  to  promote  trade  and  people-to-people  contacts 
among Bangladesh, Bhutan, India and Nepal.
The  work  of  the  6.15  kilometre-long  Padma 
Multipurpose Bridge was commissioned with our own 
resources.  Discussions  are  under  way  to  build  a  deep 
seaport, while our third seaport in Paira has commenced 
operations. Work on the metro rail in our capital, Dhaka, 
is  also  under  way.  One  hundred  economic  zones  are 
being developed across the country to allow potential 
investors to invest in Bangladesh.
Such  forward-looking  thrusts  in  our  progress 
are  supported  by  the  impressive  performance  of  our 
macroeconomic  and  socioeconomic  indicators.  In  the 
fiscal  period  2015-2016,  our  economy  posted  a  gross 
domestic product (GDP) growth rate of over 7 per cent. 
Bangladesh has experienced one of the fastest poverty 
reduction rates in countries with a modest resource base. 
We have brought poverty down from 56.7 per cent in 
1991 to 22.4 per cent today. We have already gone from 
16-29503
17/30
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
the low to the medium category in the United Nations 
Development  Programme’s  Human  Development 
Report  and  have  reached  the  World  Bank’s  lower-
middle income status. Over the past seven years, despite 
the  global  recession,  our  export  earnings  more  than 
tripled  to  reach  $34.24  billion,  remittance  flows  have 
increased  nearly  threefold,  and  our  foreign  currency 
reserves  have  multiplied  8.5  times,  from  $3.5  billion 
to  over  $31  billion.  During  the  same  period,  power-
generation capacity almost tripled, as did foreign direct 
investment. A key to our development strategy is our 
focus on addressing inequality through social security, 
decent work and financial inclusion. We allocate over 
13 per cent of our budget to social-safety-net spending, 
which is 2.3 per cent of our GDP.
Climate change threatens many of our development 
gains.  The 
landmark  Paris  Climate  Agreement 
recognizes the importance of adaptation, loss, damage 
and  climate 
the 
Agreement, and we hope that the large carbon-emitting 
countries will ratify it soon.
justice.  Bangladesh  has  ratified 
We must join ranks to preserve our natural resources 
for  succeeding  generations.  Bangladesh  reaffirms  the 
need for the conservation and sustainable use of marine 
resources so as to tap the potential of a blue economy.
Last  year,  I  mentioned  terrorism  and  violent 
extremism  as  one  of  the  two  major  global  challenges 
of  our  time  (see  A/70/PV.19).  We  see  these  menaces 
sweeping  across  borders.  No  country  seems  immune, 
no  individual  beyond  their  reach.  Terrorists  are  now 
often killing many innocent people everywhere, from 
the  United  States  of  America  to  Europe,  and  from 
Africa to Asia.
We  believe  that  terrorists  have  no  religion,  caste 
or  creed.  We  must  unite  in  our  resolve  to  defeat  and 
degrade them in all their forms and manifestations. We 
have to identify the root causes of terrorism and violent 
extremism. At the same time, we have to identify the 
mentors,  masterminds,  abettors,  financiers,  arms 
suppliers and trainers of these terrorists and extremists, 
and we must take strong action against them.
As  a  victim  of  terrorist  attacks  myself,  I  have 
a  zero-tolerance  approach  to  terrorism  and  violent 
extremism.  Our  Government  has  succeeded 
in 
dismantling  homegrown  terrorist  groups,  plugging 
their regular financing pipelines and flushing out their 
regional operatives from our territory. With the vicious 
rise of certain international terrorist entities, it appears 
that some local fringe elements have drawn inspiration 
and managed to regroup and rebrand themselves.
The  life-sustaining  force  of  water  is  a  finite 
resource. We have a shared responsibility to ensure the 
judicious and equitable use of our common waters. We 
must stand by our pledge to provide clean drinking water 
and sanitation for all. I shall continue to champion these 
issues as a member of the High-level Panel on Water.
Bangladesh,  a  unique  country  of 
religious 
harmony,  experienced  a  grisly  attack  on  1  July  2016, 
when  homegrown  terrorists  killed  20  people  at  a 
Dhaka restaurant. We were able to rescue 13 hostages 
unharmed, but that horrific incident left a deep scar on 
the hearts of the people of Bangladesh.
I firmly believe that without women’s participation, 
sustainable  development  will  simply  not  be  tenable. 
A  host  of  measures,  including  the  promotion  of 
girls’  education,  undertaken  half  a  decade  ago  have 
started  to  yield  dividends.  Women  in  Bangladesh  are 
now  increasingly  becoming  an  integral  part  of  our 
development  endeavours.  Around  3.5  million  women 
are  now  working  in  the  garment  industry,  a  leading 
export earning sector. The percentage of women in all 
professions is rapidly rising. Bangladesh is perhaps the 
only  country  in  the  world  today  where  women  hold 
the posts of Prime Minister and Leader of the House, 
Leader of the Opposition, Speaker and Deputy Leader 
of the House. Presently, we have 70 women members of 
Parliament, constituting 20 per cent of the House. More 
than 12,500 elected women representatives are serving 
in local government bodies.
We  are  now  battling  this  new  wave  of  terrorism. 
We  have  undertaken  massive  programmes  to  awaken 
people  and  warn  them  against  radicalization  and  to 
stand against militancy and extremism. The whole-of-
society response I called for has been unprecedented. 
I  am  confident  that  with  our  people’s  resilience  and 
support, we will ensure that terrorists have absolutely 
no place on our soil.
I would also like to urge the world community to 
work globally to dry up the sources of funds, arms and 
ammunition as well as moral and material support for 
militants and terrorists.
Bangladesh  will  carry  on  promoting  the  culture 
of  peace  that  is  at  the  heart  of  the  agenda  of  the 
United  Nations.  We  shall  uphold  our  contribution  to 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding. Our decision to set up 
18/30 
16-29503
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.13
a peacebuilding centre in Dhaka will allow us to share 
our experience with other countries that are emerging 
from conflict.
Nations  has  served  as  a  partner  for  us  —  one  of  the 
oldest nations in the world — in developing a free and 
democratic State. 
Likewise, we will remain vocal about recognizing 
the  role  of  national  judicial  processes  in  ensuring 
accountability and justice for mass atrocities. We have 
moved past decades of impunity to ensure the trial of 
the  local  perpetrators  of  genocide  and  crimes  against 
humanity during our liberation war, in 1971.
The  recent  efforts  to  relaunch  the  Middle  East 
peace  process  and  end  the  hostilities  against  the 
brotherly  Palestinian  people  must  be  pursued,  in  the 
right direction.
In our globalized world, there are challenges. But 
there are also potential opportunities and benefits for 
all,  but  only  if  we  know  how  to  manage  the  process 
properly.  We  are  all  gathered  here  to  serve  our  one 
humanity.  Let  us  work  through  our  differences  and 
find  common  ground  to  make  the  pragmatic  changes 
we  wish  to  see  in  the  world  around  us.  The  United 
Nations  provides  us  with  a  unique  platform  to  do  so. 
Let us renew our resolve to create an Organization of 
enduring relevance.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh for the 
statement she has just made.
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted 
from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Giorgi Kvirikashvili, Prime 
Minister of Georgia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Georgia.
Mr.  Giorgi  Kvirikashvili,  Prime  Minister  of 
Georgia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Giorgi 
Kvirikashvili, Prime Minister of Georgia, and inviting 
him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Kvirikashvili  (Georgia):  It  is  my  honour  to 
address the General Assembly. Georgia has promoted 
the  values  of  the  United  Nations  since  regaining  its 
independence  25  years  ago.  In  return,  the  United 
Twenty-five years ago, few of us could have imagined 
that today Georgia would have transformed itself from 
a country ravaged by civil war into a dynamic European 
democracy.  We  have  made  great  progress  in  building 
strong  and  effective  State  institutions;  ensuring  the 
freedom of civil society, the media and markets; and on 
social cohesion and the rule of law. And we are proud 
to be ranked as the fifth-freest economy in the world, 
thus ensuring openness and integration into the global 
market and equal opportunities for all people interested 
in doing business in Georgia.
Since July, Georgia has been an associated country 
of the European Union and is harmonizing its policies, 
institutions, sectors and market rules with those of the 
European Union. We are an aspirant country to NATO, 
having the deepest and most comprehensive partnership 
with  that  organization  of  any  nation.  In  the  past  few 
weeks,  the  United  States  Government,  the  European 
Union  and  NATO  all  took  actions  to  emphasize 
that  Georgia’s  future  lies  within  the  European  and 
Euro-Atlantic community.
At  its  core,  Georgia’s  foreign  policy  is  aimed  at 
building  strong,  mutually  beneficial  partnerships 
with  the  countries  of  our  region  and  beyond.  This 
path,  chosen  by  our  people,  leads  to  more  stability, 
security,  peace  and  prosperity  in  our country  and  the 
region. The work never ends, however. Today, we are 
poised to thrive in a new millennium. We are building 
an  innovation-driven  community  with  all  generations 
looking  to  embark  upon  an  ever-brighter  future.  We 
are building a country that will ensure the unification 
of  war-torn  communities  and  abolish  the  Glienicke 
Bridge, versions of which still exist in the twenty-first 
century owing to the ongoing occupation of two of our 
regions, dividing peaceful societies on both sides.
A  year  ago  we  unanimously  adopted  a  universal 
plan  to  better  the  world  by  setting  17  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  for  the  2030  Agenda. 
The  much-needed  transformative  agenda  for  2030 
is  indeed  impressive.  But  let  us  be  frank:  despite  the 
phenomenal blueprint of the Millennium Development 
Goals, we as an international community could not live 
up to the challenge. I welcome this year’s focus on the 
transformative  power  of  the  SDGs.  Let  us  make  sure 
that  in  the  next  15  years  we  do  our  utmost  to  really 
16-29503
19/30
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
fulfil, if not all, at least a good majority of the 17 Goals. 
To do so, we need to succeed nationally and, at the same 
time,  support  others  in  meeting  their  national  goals. 
We also must remember how interrelated the Goals are. 
We have to strive for peace and security by fostering 
development, and vice versa.
Our Government has a vision on how to translate 
the Goals into national actions. This year, we launched 
a comprehensive four-point reform plan, which is about 
making  the  development  of  our  country  a  success 
for  each  and  every  citizen  of  Georgia  and  for  the 
development and stability of the region. 
transparent 
Effective  governance  with 
and 
accountable institutions is the key to building peaceful 
and  inclusive  societies  and  promoting  sustainable 
development.  Focusing  on  SDG  16,  we  have  made 
a  clean  break  with  the  past  by  prioritizing  good 
governance. Two days ago, together with Estonia, the 
Republic of Korea and the United Nations Development 
Programme, my country organized a special high-level 
cross-regional event aimed at sharing success stories on 
implementing SDG 16. Let me reiterate that we remain 
committed  to  sharing  our  experience  and  extending 
support to those who are pursuing transformation. 
Within  Georgia,  our  goal  is  to  ensure  maximum 
inclusion  of  all  stakeholders  in  the  decision-making 
process.  We  have  created  several  platforms  for 
engaging  in  regular  dialogue  with  civil  society  and 
private-sector  representatives.  In  promoting  good 
governance, our aim is to make all public services even 
more accessible for business, and we have launched an 
ambitious project known as the Tbilisi Business House 
in our capital. With its online platform, it will serve as 
a one-stop shop for businesses and as a front office for 
all Government bodies.
Central  to  good  governance  is  fair  and  efficient 
tax  collection.  Georgia  already  has  one  of  the  lowest 
tax  burdens  in  the  world,  but  it  is  liberalizing  its  tax 
scheme  further.  To  encourage  business  to  invest  in 
development, and therefore in new jobs, we have taken 
the  decision  to  abolish  a  profit  tax  on  undistributed 
earnings. Although it is a costly reform, it ensures the 
long-term  sustainability  of  businesses  and  jobs.  We 
are  also  improving  the  tax  administration  system  by 
strengthening the role of the judiciary in decisions on 
tax inspections, thereby ensuring increased protection 
for the private sector.
The  trend  lines  for  Georgia  continue  to  improve. 
The  World  Bank  has  just  reported  that  Georgia’s 
poverty rate dropped by more than 10 per cent in the 
period 2012-2014. That is a major accomplishment. In 
2015, the unemployment rate continued to decline and is 
now at its lowest level in the past 12 years. Salaries and 
wages  are  up  substantially,  as  compared  with  several 
years  ago.  Georgia’s  economy  is  growing  despite  the 
downturns all around us, and foreign direct investment 
is approximately 100 per cent higher than in 2012. That 
translates directly into jobs for Georgians. Georgia now 
ranks fourth in terms of the ease of doing business in 
Europe and Central Asia and is on the path to becoming 
a true start-up nation.
In  the  history  of  Georgia  since  its  independence, 
there have never been so many opportunities for hard-
working people to launch or grow their own businesses. 
Those with an entrepreneurial spirit have more chances 
to succeed than ever. We have launched several projects 
that  ensure  access  to  capital  and  infrastructure  for 
people with innovative ideas, especially those interested 
in manufacturing or farming in Georgia.
The secret to fulfilling the Sustainable Development 
Goals and building resilient and inclusive communities 
lies in unlocking the hidden resource that every nation 
has:  its  people.  Accordingly,  education  is  among  our 
top  priorities.  We  decided  to  tailor  our  education 
system  to  ensure  that  it  delivers  for  each  individual 
and for our society and economy as a whole. We want 
every  graduate  of  a  professional  or  higher-education 
institution  financed  by  the  Government  to  be  able  to 
find  his  or  her  place  in  a  competitive  labour  market. 
We  want  an  education  system  that  is  competitive  and 
delivers quality education not only to Georgian citizens, 
but  also  to  foreign  students.  The  construction  of  two 
new  private  technical  universities,  at  an  estimated 
development  cost  of  €1  billion,  started  this  year.  We 
will  soon  be  able  to  offer  some  of  the  best  education 
opportunities in our region.
A healthy population is also key to further growth 
and  development.  Several  years  ago,  we  launched  a 
flagship programme for universal health care. Today, all 
citizens of Georgia have heath-care insurance, thereby 
ensuring that medical care is a reality for hundreds of 
thousands  of  our  citizens  for  the  first  time.  We  have 
also encouraged private investment in the health-care 
system, which has resulted in hundreds of millions of 
dollars being invested in new private hospitals. A new 
20/30 
16-29503
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.13
national e-pharmacy system, which will streamline the 
delivery of medicines to patients, is now being tested.
With the help of our partners, special programmes 
to  eradicate  persistent  diseases  have  been  started. 
Georgia is poised to become one of the first countries 
to eliminate hepatitis C. We are especially grateful to 
the United States for its help with this initiative.
Georgia’s development agenda is first and foremost 
about our citizens and their equal rights. We believe in 
the power of free citizens and the role of Government 
in  ensuring  freedoms  and  opportunities  for  them. 
Sustainable development is not possible without human 
rights,  access  to  justice  and  effective,  transparent, 
accountable and inclusive institutions.
We  have  taken  major  steps  to  bolster  the  rule  of 
law. We overhauled the court system, the Office of the 
Prosecutor,  judicial  ethics  and  the  responsibilities  of 
attorneys. We gave more rights to defendants, and we 
ended impunity for Government officials. All Georgians 
are  now  equal  before  the  law  and  can  benefit  from  a 
judiciary system that has gone through several waves 
of reforms to reach higher levels of independence and 
professionalism. We are continuing the reform process 
of  the  judiciary  to  achieve  the  highest  international 
standards.  Today,  Georgia  ranks  twenty-ninth  on  the 
Rule of Law Index of the World Justice Project, ahead 
of a number of old and new European Union members.
Other important steps address a regrettable problem 
we inherited, that is, past human rights violations, with 
particularly  egregious  infractions  in  our  prisons.  We 
have  acted  swiftly  and  decisively  to  correct  this.  The 
United Nations Special Rapporteur on torture and other 
cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment 
recently  observed  that  the  Georgian  Government  had 
turned this problem around since its election in 2012. 
The  changes,  he  notes,  are  visible  and  quantifiable. 
We  did  this  by  putting  in  place  legal  and  procedural 
mechanisms 
the  mistreatment  of 
prisoners,  including  compensation  for  victims.  We 
have  enacted  new  anti-discrimination  legislation.  We 
have  worked  hard  to  achieve  results  in  the  areas  of 
gender  equality  and  women’s  empowerment.  We  are 
implementing  a  national  action  plan  to  ensure  equal 
opportunities  for  persons  with  disabilities.  But  there 
is still more to be done. For that purpose, we have set 
in place a new long-term comprehensive human rights 
strategy and action plan.
for  combating 
In  less  than  three  weeks,  we  will  be  holding 
parliamentary  elections 
in  Georgia.  Campaigning 
started  more  than  three  months  ago,  and  this  period 
has  shown  evidence  of  Georgia’s  real  democratic 
development.  With  free  and  pluralistic  media  and 
political environments, a strong and vocal civil society 
and the relevant legislative and institutional framework, 
we  are  ensuring  a  free,  fair  and  transparent  election 
process.  On  8  October,  the  people  of  Georgia  will  be 
the winners, and our democracy will continue driving 
our country to a sustainable future.
Sustainable  development  cannot  be  fully  realized 
if it is divorced from the overriding issue of security. 
In  Georgia,  we  are  reminded  of  this  every  day  by  a 
harsh reality, namely, that 20 per cent of our country is 
occupied by foreign troops, territory that they took by 
force. Hundreds of thousands of people continue to be 
denied the right to return to their homes. 
We are grateful for the support offered by resolution 
70/265, on the status of internally displaced persons and 
refugees  from  Abkhazia,  Georgia,  and  the  Tskhinvali 
region/South  Ossetia,  Georgia.  It  is  time  to  translate 
this measure of support into action. Barbed wire fences 
installed by the occupiers divide Georgian families and 
communities. The populations in the occupied regions 
endure  consistent  ethnic  discrimination  and  gross 
human  rights  violations.  Their  freedom  of  movement 
and their property rights are restricted. They are even 
denied education in their native languages. I condemn 
the  recent  act  of  holding  elections  for  the  Russian 
State Duma in Georgia’s occupied territories, which is 
another  part  of  Moscow’s  annexation  policy.  This  all 
happens in the absence of any international monitoring, 
except  for  the  limited  involvement  of  the  European 
Union  Monitoring  Mission,  which  has  been  denied 
access to the occupied territories.
The  ongoing  occupation  and  steps 
towards 
annexation  remain  the  greatest  existential  challenge 
inherited  by  our  Government.  We  have  been  seeking 
a  workable  solution  with  the  Russian  Federation. 
We  have  made  some  real  progress  in  de-escalating 
tensions,  but  not  all  of  Georgia’s  steps  forward  have 
been  reciprocated.  The  Russian  Federation  has  yet  to 
honour  even  the  European  Union-mediated  ceasefire 
agreement of August 2008.
Against that backdrop, I would like to once again 
reaffirm that this conflict must be resolved peacefully, 
based  on  full  respect  for  Georgia’s  sovereignty 
16-29503
21/30
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
and  territorial  integrity,  within  its  internationally 
recognized  borders.  We  will  continue  to  address 
the  concerns  of  people  living  in  the  Abkhazia  and 
Tskhinvali  regions  and  to  reconcile  the  war-torn 
communities  across  the  occupation  line.  To  that  end, 
we will make all the benefits of our European agenda 
and all economic opportunities available to the people 
residing in the occupied territories. Our investment in 
the prosperous future of a united Georgia is additional 
stimulus for building confidence and reconciliation.
We will invest more than $5 billion in connectivity 
and  infrastructure  in  the  next  four  years.  We  will 
connect  regions  of  Georgia  with  each  other,  as  well 
as  connect  Georgia  with  the  wider  region.  Thanks 
to  Georgia’s  strategic  location,  our  ports,  roads  and 
transport  networks  will  be  an  important  part  of  the 
ambitious  and  transformative  Silk  Road  Development 
Plan connecting Europe to Asia. We are investing not 
only in infrastructure, but in policy platforms as well.
The Tbilisi Silk Road forum has proved to be a major 
success, attracting the involvement of 35 countries. In 
particular, we are honoured and excited to be working 
with  China  and  the  other  nations  of  the  Silk  Road  to 
provide a critical piece of a new trade and investment 
corridor that will benefit the entire world.
When  we  talk  about  connectivity,  we  must  not 
omit the Internet, perhaps the greatest driver of global 
cooperation. Therefore, we have started the development 
of  a  country-wide  broadband  system  that  will  bring 
the benefits of the Internet to the most remote villages 
and farms. Georgia is proud to be listed among the top 
countries in Internet freedom.
I  am  proud  to  be  speaking  to  the  Assembly  on 
behalf of Georgia at a time when we are on the rise and 
at the centre of new developments connecting East and 
West. It is in this spirit that we seek to create a more 
secure  and  prosperous  region,  grounded  in  principles 
of sustainable development. We are working hard every 
day  to  take  real  actions  that  enhance  the  lives  of  our 
people  while  respecting  their  rights,  their  beliefs  and 
their cultures. We look forward to continuing to work 
with  the  United  Nations  on  achieving  a  shared  vision 
for a better future.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of Georgia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Giorgi  Kvirikashvili,  Prime  Minister  of 
Georgia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Malcolm Turnbull, Prime 
Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
Mr.  Malcolm  Turnbull,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Australia,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in French): I have great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Malcolm 
Turnbull,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Commonwealth  of 
Australia, and inviting him to address the Assembly. 
Mr.  Turnbull  (Australia):  The  tenor  of  our  times 
is  change  —  accelerating  at  a  pace  and  on  a  scale 
unprecedented  in  all  of  human  history.  In  less  than  a 
generation,  billions  have  been  lifted  out  of  poverty, 
and billions more have been enabled to connect to each 
other and to a world of knowledge and ideas in a manner 
barely imaginable a generation ago. Economic freedom 
between markets and within them, supercharged by the 
Internet, innovation and technology, has made possible 
the longest run of economic progress in the history of 
the world.
There  are  threats.  At  the  meeting  of  the  Group 
of Twenty we focused on how to resist the rising tide 
of  protectionism,  which  is  not  a  ladder  to  escape  the 
low-growth trap, but a shovel to dig it deeper. But most 
important of all is the threat of conflict and instability. 
Where there is peace and the rule of law applies to both 
governors and governed, to both large States and small, 
we  have  seen  remarkable  strides  in  every  measure  of 
human  progress.  But  in  too  many  places  there  is  no 
peace  —  wars  that  seem  to  have  no  end,  intractable 
disorder  that,  in  a  connected  world  where  technology 
has trumped geography, affects us all.
And  yet  despite  setbacks  to  secure  lasting  peace, 
notably  in  Syria,  over  the  past  five  years  the  United 
Nations  system  has  produced  a  global  Arms  Trade 
Treaty, a pivotal global agreement on climate change, 
a  transformational  set  of  Sustainable  Development 
Goals and a global blueprint for disaster-risk reduction. 
These  successes  add  to  the  less  high-profile,  but 
hugely  important  work  of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
field  —  whether  it  be  vaccinating  children,  helping 
22/30 
16-29503
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.13
democratic 
subsistence  farmers  to  improve  their  crop  yields, 
facilitating 
delivering 
emergency  humanitarian  support.  They  demonstrate 
the approach we need to take as we face the challenges 
of the future.
elections 
or 
We need strength to respond firmly and decisively 
in the face of tyranny and abuse, to stand up to those 
who seek to divide societies through terror or to exploit 
desperation for their own benefit. We need compassion 
to assist those less fortunate than ourselves and to help 
rebuild communities that have been devastated by war 
or natural disasters. And now, more than ever, we need 
to work together towards common solutions.
That  is  why  Australia’s  response  to  the  global 
surge  in  migration  is  based  on  three  pillars.  First  is 
strong  border  controls,  with  effective  measures  to 
combat  people-smuggling  and  terrorism,  supported 
by  a  planned  migration  programme.  Second  is  a 
compassionate humanitarian policy, one that does not 
focus merely on the numbers that we take in, but offers 
substantial  resettlement  programmes  and  supports 
those  countries  hosting  large  numbers  of  refugees 
themselves.  The  third  pillar  is  effective  international 
and  regional  cooperation.  These  three  pillars  are 
inherently interlinked. They cannot and do not work in 
isolation. We believe that in order to secure and maintain 
public support for immigration, multiculturalism and a 
generous humanitarian programme, the public needs to 
know that it is their own Government that controls their 
borders.
In 
the  year  before  Australia’s  strong  border 
protection  policies  were 
introduced,  over  25,000 
irregular  migrants  arrived  in  Australia  by  boat.  Over 
1,200 people tragically died as a result, the victims of 
the criminal enterprises that prey on vulnerable people 
for profit. Without policies to ensure that we can decide 
who enters Australia, it would not have been possible 
for  our  Government  to  maintain  the  world’s  third-
largest permanent refugee resettlement programme. It 
would not have been possible for Australia to commit to 
taking an additional 12,000 refugees displaced by the 
conflicts in Iraq and Syria, or to increase our broader 
humanitarian intake by more than 35 per cent.
We  are  one  of  the  most  successful  multicultural 
societies in the world. We are both as old as the oldest 
continuous  human  culture  of  our  first  Australians 
and  as  young  as  the  child  in  the  arms  of  her  migrant 
parents. We are not defined by race, religion or culture, 
but by shared political values of democracy, the rule of 
law  and  equality  of  opportunity  —  a  “fair  go”.  More 
than  a  quarter  of  us  were  born  overseas,  almost  half 
of  us  have  a  parent  born  overseas,  and  each  year  we 
welcome  around  200,000  permanent  migrants  to  join 
our  24  million.  We  have  a  long  experience  of,  and 
commitment to, settlement services to ensure that our 
immigrants,  especially  refugees,  become  successfully 
integrated into our society. We are indeed a nation of 
immigrants who are as diverse as the society that they 
have joined.
One such story is that of Aliir Aliir, who grew up 
in  a  refugee  camp  in  Kenya  after  his  family  fled  the 
bloody  civil  war  in  the  Sudan.  For  Aliir,  his  family, 
and  150,000  other  men,  women  and  children,  the 
Kakuma refugee camp was home. The camp provided 
the  bare  necessities  of  meals  and  shelter,  but  sports 
equipment  was  unimaginable.  Aliir  and  his  friends 
would  improvise  with  a  balloon  wrapped  in  strips 
of  old  clothing  to  serve  as  a  football.  He  was  seven 
when  he  and  his  family  came  to  Australia.  Tall,  fast 
and  agile,  Aliir  was  a  natural  for  Australian  Rules 
Football,  and  he  has  not  looked  back  since  he  took 
up  the  game.  Earlier  this  year,  I  was  delighted  when 
Aliir debuted for the Australian Football League (AFL) 
team  I  support,  the  Sydney  Swans.  Now  22,  Aliir  is 
one  of  the  first  Sudanese  immigrants  to  play  for  the 
AFL and has become a role model in our multicultural 
nation,  especially  for  young  people  in  Sydney.  There 
are thousands of migrant stories like Aliir’s — leaders 
of Government, of business, of science and of the arts.
Australia would not be the country it is today without 
their  contribution.  Their  stories  are  our  stories,  their 
successes  are  our  successes.  Of  course,  each  country 
must adopt approaches that meet the needs of its own 
population  and  geography.  But  Australia’s  experience 
sheds  some  light  on  what  the  solutions  are  —  strong 
borders, vigilant security agencies governed by the rule 
of law, and a steadfast commitment to the shared values 
of freedom and mutual respect. These are the ingredients 
of multicultural success. And they are lessons we can 
share to drive more effective, coordinated approaches 
to meet our humanitarian responsibilities.
That is why the New York Declaration for Refugees 
and  Migrants  (resolution  71/1),  adopted  here  at  the 
United Nations on Monday to drive a more orderly and 
coordinated approach to migration and refugees, is so 
important. And that is why Australia and Indonesia, as 
Co-Chairs  of  the  Bali  Process  on  People  Smuggling, 
16-29503
23/30
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
Trafficking  in  Persons  and  Related  Transnational 
Crime, are working with the countries of our region to 
protect migrants in vulnerable situations and to combat 
people-smuggling.
Now  we  need  to  see  the  world  as  it  is,  not  as  we 
would like it to be, or as we fondly imagine it once was. 
Secure borders are essential. Porous borders drain away 
public  support  for  multiculturalism,  for  immigration 
and  for  aid  to  refugees.  Most  important  of  all,  the 
only  way  to  stop  the  scourge  of  people-smuggling  is 
to  deprive  the  people-smugglers  of  their  product,  and 
secure borders do just that.
Another  fact  we  must  recognize  is  that,  while  it 
would  be  desirable  for  more  nations  to  increase  their 
humanitarian intake, as Australia is doing, the truth is 
that  the  scale  of  the  refugee  and  internally  displaced 
persons  problem  is  so  great  —  65  million  —  that 
resettlement  in  other  countries  can  never  come  close 
to  being  near  enough.  The  most  urgent  priority  is  to 
re-establish stability and ensure security in the regions 
of conflict and, in addition, ensure that there are greater 
opportunities for economic advancement in the source 
countries of so much of this irregular migration. All of 
this requires cooperation, and that includes, as noted in 
the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants, 
the willingness of Member States to accept the return 
of  their  citizens  who  do  not  qualify  for  protection, 
whether on a voluntary or involuntary basis.
Australia’s  armed 
Regional and national initiatives are crucial in our 
response to the surge in displaced people. Ultimately, 
we  will  find  sustainable  solutions  only  by  addressing 
the  root  causes  and  drivers  of  this  displacement.  The 
largest of these are conflict and instability. Conflict — in 
Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, South Sudan, Libya, Yemen 
and other countries — is taking an unprecedented toll 
on  innocent  civilians  who,  like  all  of  us,  wish  to  live 
their lives and raise their families in peace and security.
the 
Government of Iraq in its efforts to liberate its territories 
from Da’esh. In defence of Iraq, we are joining with our 
coalition partners to defeat Da’esh in Syria. It is of vital 
importance that Da’esh’s so-called caliphate is defeated 
in  the  field.  As  Nadia  Murad  said  on  Monday  in  the 
General  Assembly  (see  A/71/PV.3),  we  must  defeat 
these terrorists, these monsters, who killed or enslaved 
her family, once and for all. Our support has helped to 
put Da’esh on the back foot — it has now lost around 
50 per cent of its territory in Iraq. 
forces  are  supporting 
But conflict resolution is not enough. Establishing 
and  maintaining  a  credible  peace  in  the  aftermath  of 
conflict is just as important. In that regard, the United 
Nations must play a vital role in building and sustaining 
peace. 
Australia  is  proud  to  have  worked  with  Angola 
to facilitate a resolution to reform the United Nations 
peacebuilding architecture. As the sixth-largest donor 
in 2015, Australia is pleased to be a key supporter of the 
Peacebuilding Fund, which provides crucial assistance 
to  peace  agreements  and  supports  capacity-building 
and rule-of-law projects in post-conflict societies. The 
United  Nations  role  illustrates  that  vigilance  against 
the  risk  of  new  conflicts  requires  investing  in  and 
protecting the international rules-based order. 
We were all reminded of that recently when North 
Korea launched three medium-range ballistic missiles. 
Days later, Pyongyang conducted what we understand 
to  be  its  largest-ever  nuclear  test.  The  provocative 
and  dangerous  actions  of  this  rogue  State  breach 
unanimously  agreed  Security  Council  resolutions 
and  threaten  global  peace  and  security.  This  shows 
why  it  was  important  for  Australia  and  Myanmar 
to  secure  agreement  at  the  East  Asia  Summit  on  a 
new  commitment  to  end  the  proliferation  of  nuclear 
weapons  and  to  work  to  support  non-proliferation. 
Such  provocation  requires  action,  and  Australia  will 
work  with  the  Security  Council  to  support  additional 
sanctions against North Korea.
It  is  this  maturity  and  honesty  that  Australia 
would  bring  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  should  we 
be elected for our first-ever term, from 2018 to 2020. 
Rather than denying problems, we will seek to identify 
them, address them and learn from them. And we will 
hold others to the same standard as we hold ourselves.
Australia  has  prioritized  five  key  areas  in  our 
approach to human rights: gender equality, governance, 
freedom  of  expression, 
indigenous 
peoples, and strong national human rights institutions 
and capacity-building. We are committed to providing 
principled  and  pragmatic  leadership  across  these  five 
areas  —  both  through  our  actions  at  home  and  our 
advocacy  and  cooperation  abroad.  Over  the  course 
of  the  next  decade  and  beyond,  working  together  to 
combat  terrorism  and  conflict,  prevent  global  health 
pandemics, ensure universal access to clean water and 
sanitation,  and  address  climate  change  will  require 
enhanced global cooperation. 
the  rights  of 
24/30 
16-29503
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.13
I  do  not  need  to  reiterate  the  significance  and 
complexity  of  the  threat  of  climate  change.  We  all 
understand what is at stake: the future of generations 
around  the  globe  and  the  well-being  of  our  planet 
itself.  If  we  are  to  be  successful,  we  must  all,  every 
one  of  us,  act  together  to  build  a  better  world.  And 
we  are.  The  Paris  Agreement  last  year  was  a  shining 
example  of  global  cooperation  for  the  common  good. 
In a historic display of commitment, over 170 nations 
signed the Paris Agreement in New York in April. Even 
more  have  submitted  plans  for  action,  and  Australia 
will  play  its  part.  We  are  committed  to  ratifying  the 
Paris  Agreement,  and  we  are  confident  that  we  will 
meet our ambitious 2030 target of cutting our per capita 
emissions by 52 per cent — just as we will meet and 
beat our Kyoto Protocol commitments.
Australia has also increased the profile of climate 
change  in  our  overseas  aid  programme,  including 
through  our  $200  million  commitment  to  the  Green 
Climate  Fund,  because  we  know  climate  change 
amplifies many development challenges. We also know 
that our commitment to action creates new opportunities 
for innovation and growth, which means more jobs.
We  are  combining  reductions  in  emissions  with 
strong  economic  growth,  which,  from  a  rate  of  2  per 
cent a year ago, has been running at 3.3 per cent over 
the past year. Our new cities policy, too, is focused on 
clean  development,  enhanced  amenity,  sustainability 
and livability. And, as the land of droughts and flooding 
rains, we have learned how to make every drop count 
and  share  our  experience  in  water  management  with 
other nations, including earlier today at the High-level 
Panel on Water.
It would be remiss of me not to offer our deepest 
thanks  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
leadership  and  his  commitment  to  addressing,  over 
the  past  decade,  so  many  of  the  challenges  I  have 
mentioned  here.  The  Secretary-General  leaves  an 
important  legacy  that  his  successor  must  now  take 
forward with the international community. And as his 
successor  does  so,  we,  the  United  Nations,  must  stay 
the  course.  We  must  remain  committed  to  displaying 
sufficient strength and courage to do what is needed in 
the face of great adversity. We must continue to show 
the  compassion  and  understanding  needed  to  ensure 
that  our  societies  are  inclusive,  diverse  and  resilient. 
And we must continue to cooperate at the regional and 
international levels to find common solutions to these 
global challenges. I am confident that together, as the 
United Nations, we will ensure a better future for all.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia for 
the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Malcolm  Turnbull,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Commonwealth of Australia, was escorted from the 
rostrum. 
Address by Mr. Prayut Chan-o-cha, Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand. 
Mr.  Prayut  Chan-o-cha,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Thailand, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Prayut 
Chan-o-cha,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Kingdom  of 
Thailand, and inviting him to address the Assembly. 
Mr.  Chan-o-cha  (Thailand)  (spoke 
in  Thai; 
English  interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation): 
Last  year,  the  General  Assembly  adopted  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development as a plan of action 
for balanced and sustainable global development. The 
Agenda  puts  all  peoples  at  the  heart  of  development 
policy  and  aspires  to  give  them  equitable  access  to 
opportunity, progress and prosperity, while leaving no 
one  behind.  Such  a  transformative  Agenda  represents 
a  crucial  paradigm  shift 
the  United  Nations 
development agenda, which seeks to be more inclusive 
and more responsive to new challenges.
in 
This  year  marks  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
Thailand’s  membership  in  the  United  Nations.  It  is 
also the first year of the implementation of important 
agendas,  such  as  the  Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster 
Risk Reduction, the Paris Agreement, the Addis Ababa 
Action Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs).  The  international  community  must  therefore 
join hands and hearts so as to ensure that those agendas 
are implemented effectively.
firmly 
Thailand 
sustainable 
development  cannot  take  place  where  there  is  no 
peace and security or when human rights are violated, 
abused or disregarded. We also hold the opposite to be 
believes 
that 
16-29503
25/30
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
true — that peace and security is unsustainable without 
development  or  when  people  are  deprived  of  their 
rights.  The  three  United  Nations  pillars  are  therefore 
truly  interconnected  and  mutually  reinforcing.  The 
recent  migration  crisis  is  a  clear  example  of  just  how 
intertwined 
the  security,  development  and  social 
dimensions  are.  No  country  is  immune  from  the 
effects of crises happening in other parts of the world. 
It  is  therefore  our  shared  responsibility  to  address  all 
challenges  at  the  root-cause  level  in  order  to  derive 
sustainable solutions.
Today  we  face  multilayered  and  interconnected 
challenges.  Addressing  them,  as  well  as  finding 
universal  solutions  to  them,  is  made  all  the  more 
complex because of the diversity of the world’s 7 billion 
people  in  some  200  countries,  with  their  different 
beliefs,  histories  and  cultures.  The 
international 
community  should  therefore  work  closely  together  to 
find ways of achieving peaceful coexistence based on 
mutual  understanding  and  respect,  as  well  as  shared 
responsibility,  where  everyone  is  given  opportunities 
and basic rights in an equitable and non-discriminatory 
manner.  We  must  also  ensure  full  respect  for,  and 
compliance  with,  our 
international  obligations, 
especially  those  whose  breaching  could  have  serious 
consequences,  such  as  obligations  concerning  nuclear 
disarmament.
In  order  to  achieve  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  we  must  take  on  shared  responsibility  and  put 
in  collective  efforts,  as  well  as  promote  the  active 
engagement  of 
regional,  political  and  economic 
groupings. No single country, even the most powerful or 
prosperous, can go it alone in that regard. International 
cooperation  —  be  it  North-South,  South-South,  or 
triangular  —  is  therefore  essential  and  can  be  the 
universal push we need to transform our world.
This year, Thailand has the honour of serving as the 
Chair of the Group of 77 (G-77). Our stated objective 
has been to transform vision into concrete action. We 
have  therefore  been  coordinating  and  bridging  the 
Group’s position with other groups and partners, so as 
to enhance mutual trust and promote common interests. 
This year, for the very first time, Thailand, as the chair 
of  the  G-77,  was  invited  to  the  Group  of  Twenty  (G-
20) Summit, held in Hangzhou, where we took part in 
discussions  on  how  to  advance  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  That  was  an  important  and 
historic  moment  for  the  G-77,  because  the  G-20  is  a 
grouping of the world’s major economies.
Additionally,  Thailand  has  shared  its  experiences 
and  lessons  learned  in  overcoming  socioeconomic 
challenges through His Majesty the King’s Sufficiency 
Economy  Philosophy 
alternative 
development model that takes a people-centred approach 
and emphasizes moderation, reason, resilience, virtue, 
knowledge and inclusiveness. That Thai model has so 
far been applied and adapted to fit the national context 
in over 20 developing countries.
(SEP) 
an 
as 
Since  assuming  the  G-77  chairmanship,  Thailand 
has initiated the SEP model for the SDGs partnership 
programme  as  a  platform  for  the  exchange  of  views, 
experiences  and  best  practices  among  members 
on  issues  such  as  investment  and  information  and 
communications 
technology  for  development.  We 
have  also  learned  about  homegrown  approaches  to 
development  from  one  another  through  bilateral  and 
trilateral  cooperation  arrangements  —  for  example, 
with our development partners. 
ready 
further 
cooperation with all groups, such as the Brazil, Russia, 
India, China and South Africa group and the Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  which  also 
attach  great  importance  to  sustainable  development. 
We will also strengthen existing regional mechanisms 
so as to give further impetus to efforts to transform our 
world. Next month, Thailand will host the second Asia 
Cooperation Dialogue Summit to discuss, among other 
things, the implementation of SDGs in the region.
to  promote 
Thailand 
stands 
At the ASEAN-United Nations Summit in Vientiane 
earlier this month, the Secretary-General spoke about 
the  important  role  played  by  regional  mechanisms  in 
the  promotion  of  international  peace  and  sustainable 
development.  All  ASEAN  leaders,  including  myself, 
believe that the efforts that we will be making to achieve 
the SDGs will be key factors in the transformation of 
our world for the better.
The ASEAN Community is now in its first full year. 
It has brought the peoples of ASEAN closer together, 
in particular through our economic and cultural links.
We see that closer cooperation will also help to reduce 
conflict and further promote peace within the region.
The Thai Government attaches great importance to 
achieving sustainable development. We have established 
the  National  Committee  on  Sustainable  Development 
and  incorporated  the  SDGs  into  our  twelfth  National 
Economic and Social Development Plan for 2017-2021 
and  our  20-year  national  strategy.  We  are  continuing 
26/30 
16-29503
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.13
with our policy of providing quality health-care services 
for all, as well as ensuring equitable access to education 
for  all,  whether  they  be  Thai  nationals,  migrants  or 
foreign  workers.  To  that  end,  we  can  count  on  the 
Government’s  universal  health  coverage  programme 
as well as other initiatives, such as the anti-microbial 
resistance  campaign.  We  also  have  a  compulsory 
education programme to ensure basic education for all.
Moreover, the Government places high importance 
on  raising  living  standards,  protecting  freedoms, 
reducing disparities and promoting equitable access to 
basic services. We have reviewed the relevant national 
laws and regulations with a view to achieving tangible 
and sustainable results in those areas. We have enacted 
new  legislation  on  gender  equality  and  have  taken 
measures  to  protect  at-risk  and  vulnerable  groups, 
including  newborn  children,  persons  with  disabilities 
and the elderly. We also provide adequate housing and 
land  distribution  to  low-income  earners,  because  we 
believe that those people, if empowered and protected, 
can be valuable assets and important agents of change 
in our universal push to transform our world.
On the issue of climate change and the environment, 
Thailand has ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change.  We  call  on  other  countries  that  have  not  yet 
done  so  to  become  party  to  the  Agreement  at  the 
earliest as a show of our joint commitment, solidarity 
and  shared  responsibility  in  addressing  that  issue, 
which affects all of humankind, especially small island 
developing States.
With regard to our economy, the Thai Government 
is  implementing  the  Thailand  4.0  programme,  which 
employs technology and innovation as driving forces for 
targeted and sustainable economic development in such 
sectors  as  agriculture  and  industry.  The  programme 
emphasizes  education,  infrastructure,  research  and 
development,  and  also  creates  incentives  and  an 
enabling  environment  for  the  private  sector  through 
improvements in business laws and regulations, so as 
to  be  able  to  fight  corruption.  We  believe  that  such 
an  approach  will  help  overcome  the  middle-income 
trap  and  allow  our  people  to  participate  fully  in  the 
country’s future.
On peace and international security, Thailand has 
consistently  supported  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
and peacebuilding operations. Our peacekeepers have 
participated in some 20 missions and have contributed 
to enabling local people to live normal lives, play a part 
in strengthening their own societies and participate in 
the  long-term  development  of  their  countries.  Those 
efforts  are  also  consistent  with  achieving  SDG  16, 
on  peaceful  and  inclusive  societies  for  sustainable 
development.
Thailand fully supports the effective implementation 
of  SDG  17,  on  strengthened  international  cooperation 
and  global  partnership.  We  believe  that  there  is  no 
one-size-fits-all  model  for  development,  since  each 
country  has  its  own  specific  needs  and  limitations. 
Therefore, we need to make the appropriate adaptations 
so  as  to  fit  the  context  of  each  country  by  sharing  of 
experiences and best practices, with a view to achieving 
unity in diversity.
The Thai Government has laid down the foundations 
for  sustainable  development.  On  7  August,  the  Thai 
people  voted  to  approve  the  draft  Constitution  in  a 
democratic  referendum.  At  present,  constitutional  by-
laws are being considered that will lead to the holding 
of  general  elections  in  late  2017,  in  accordance  with 
our  road  map.  That  referendum  reflects  the  genuine 
intentions of the Government to promote the democratic 
process, while taking into account the views expressed 
by the international community. The Government came 
in  to  oversee  the  transition  period  and  restore  order 
and  security.  Once  the  situation  returned  to  normal 
with security restored, the Government ended certain 
temporary measures, such as by lifting, last week, the 
military jurisdiction over civilians.
The  Government  remains  actively  engaged  in 
addressing long-neglected and deeply rooted problems 
of  security,  corruption,  human 
trafficking  and 
crime.  We  believe  that  addressing  the  root  causes  of 
such  problems  can  serve  as  a  strong  foundation  for 
sustainable democracy and good governance, with the 
hope  that  Thailand  and  the  Thai  people  will  remain 
constructive members of the global community in the 
long term.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
pay tribute to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
efforts throughout the past decade. He has been the man 
behind  many  important  and  commendable  initiatives 
driving  change  and  progress  in  the  international 
community — for example, the Human Rights Up Front 
initiative and the Agenda for Humanity. I wish him all 
the best in his future endeavours.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
16-29503
27/30
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Prayut  Chan-o-cha,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Thailand,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sebastian  Kurz,  Federal 
Minister for Europe, Integration and Foreign Affairs of 
the Republic of Austria. 
Mr. Kurz (Austria): I belong to a generation that 
was born into a globalized world. For us, globalization 
is  not  a  threat  —  it  is  a  fact  of  life.  As  Kofi  Annan 
once said, arguing against globalization is like arguing 
against  the  laws  of  gravity.  Let  us  be  clear:  the  fact 
that  the  world  has  grown  closer  together  has  brought 
about  enormous  benefits.  It  has  reduced  international 
poverty,  contributed  to  the  spread  of  technology  and 
reduced the distances between countries.
But we must also recognize that globalization has 
not  only  led  to  positive  consequences;  it  also  created 
new challenges. Events taking place on the other side 
of the globe can have a direct impact on our lives. That 
includes  not  only  in  the  economic  world,  but  in  all 
spheres of life. Especially in recent years, we have seen 
a  dramatic  increase  in  threats  to  stability  throughout 
the world.
When  I  started  out  as  Foreign  Minister,  in 
December 2013, Ukraine had full sovereignty over its 
eastern borders and Crimea. The Iraqi Government was 
still in control of Mosul and other parts of the country, 
and religious minorities, such as the Yazidis, still lived 
in  peace  and  security  in  their  homeland.  Yet  today, 
thinking in terms of confrontational blocs has returned 
to  Europe.  Today  Da’esh  threatens  whole  States,  and 
radicalization  and  violent  extremism  are  on  the  rise 
worldwide.
Given  those  developments,  I  can  understand  that 
people  are  shocked  and  overburdened  by  the  many 
images they see of violence, suffering and destruction, 
and that they would wish to block those images from 
their living rooms. But the truth is that, while one can 
turn off the television and block off the news from one’s 
home, what cannot be changed in a globalized world is 
the fact that something taking place elsewhere can have 
a direct impact on our lives. The more interconnected 
our  world  becomes,  the  greater  the  responsibility  of 
each one of us is to not ignore events taking place in 
other parts of the world. The more globalized our world 
becomes,  the  more  interest  each  one  of  us  must  take 
in strengthening stability and prosperity in other parts 
of the world, not only out of solidarity but also out of 
self-interest. 
One thing is very clear today: we all need to join 
forces.  We  need  the  United  Nations,  the  European 
Union  (EU)  and  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). And we need effective 
multilateralism to achieve what we most desire, namely, 
security and stability.
Today  threats  to  security  and  stability  arise  from 
many  challenges  at  the  same  time.  The  destruction 
caused  by  military  conflicts  is  increasing,  violent 
extremism is growing and weapons of mass destruction 
still exist. The conflict that is closest to us in Austria is 
the one in Crimea and eastern Ukraine. We remain very 
concerned, because the Minsk Agreement has still not 
been implemented, and progress has been frustratingly 
slow. In our opinion, we need to find solutions beyond 
the ceasefires. We need a free and stable Ukraine that 
has good relations with both the Russian Federation and 
the European Union.
To achieve greater security, we must rebuild trust. 
In  that  respect,  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation in Europe, which reaches from Vancouver 
to Vladivostok, is uniquely placed to promote stability 
and  security.  During  Austria’s  chairmanship  of  the 
OSCE  in  2017,  we  intend  to  contribute  to  rebuilding 
trust  and  defusing  conflicts  in  the  OSCE  area,  such 
as  in  eastern  Ukraine,  Georgia,  Nagorno  Karabakh 
and  Transnistria.  But  we  are  also  faced  with  a  ring 
of  instability  in  Europe’s  wider  neighbourhood  —  in 
Syria, Iraq and Libya.
On  Syria,  we  need 
to  reinforce  diplomatic 
efforts  to  establish  a  ceasefire,  enable  safe  access  for 
humanitarian aid and start a political process. That is 
the  only  way  to  end  the  ongoing  humanitarian  crisis 
in that long-suffering country. We are outraged by the 
attacks  on  medical  facilities  and  aid  convoys.  Let  me 
be  clear:  all  of  those  who  committed  crimes  against 
civilians must be brought to justice.
Around 
the  globe,  radicalization  and  violent 
extremism  pose  serious  threats  to  our  societies, 
undermining security, development, human rights and 
fundamental  freedoms.  We  must  all  realize  that  acts 
of religious extremism do not happen only in areas of 
conflict; there are religious extremists who radicalize 
28/30 
16-29503
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.13
our youth even in the heart of our own societies. Tens 
of thousands of foreign fighters have joined the Islamic 
State in Iraq and the Levant in order to rape, kill and try 
to exterminate religious minorities in other parts of the 
world. They include more than 5,000 people from the 
EU, among them 300 from Austria. We cannot accept 
that our citizens commit such crimes in other parts of 
the world, and we have to be clear that when they return, 
they pose a major threat to our societies. We therefore 
have  to  increase  efforts  within  our  communities  to 
prevent young people from being misled by those who 
abuse religion.
We  also  have  to  remain  committed  in  our  fight 
against  Da’esh  and  other  terrorist  groups  in  countries 
like Syria, Iraq and Libya, because destroying Da’esh 
would  be  the  most  powerful  measure  to  counter 
radicalization. The more we deny radical terrorists their 
success stories, the fewer new fighters will be recruited 
from  other  parts  of  the  world.  If  we  are  unsuccessful 
in that fight, we will see increased radicalization and 
terrorism  worldwide,  with  no  safe  havens,  neither  in 
Europe nor elsewhere.
In  an  ever  less  secure  world  facing  ever  greater 
tensions among the major Powers, nuclear disarmament 
remains the number one unfinished business. The recent 
nuclear  tests  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  serve  as  a  warning  sign.  We  all  agree  that 
the  humanitarian  consequences  of  a  nuclear-weapon 
explosion  would  be  unacceptable.  We  must  therefore 
finally rid ourselves of all nuclear weapons. Experience 
shows that the first step in eliminating weapons of mass 
destruction is to prohibit them through legally binding 
norms. Together with other Member States, Austria will 
submit a draft resolution to convene negotiations on a 
legally  binding  comprehensive  instrument  to  prohibit 
nuclear weapons in 2017.
But that is not enough. We also need to put an end 
to  the  use  of  explosive  weapons  in  populated  areas. 
When such weapons are used in cities and other urban 
areas — as we have seen in Syria — more than 90 per 
cent  of  the  victims  are  civilians.  The  destruction  of 
homes,  hospitals,  schools  and  other  infrastructure 
forces people to leave. The world would be a safer place 
without such weapons, especially for children, women 
and elderly people. We will therefore convene a meeting 
in early October to promote that goal, and we hope for 
Members’ support.
The  United  Nations  is  central  when  it  comes  to 
tackling the global challenges of our time. We need an 
effective guardian for our shared values and principles. 
We  need  a  strong  United  Nations  to  provide  security, 
achieve  stability  and  restore  people’s  confidence.  In 
that  context,  I  would  like  to  express  my  gratitude  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  leadership 
during his two terms at the United Nations. His moral 
leadership  has  made  it  possible  to  achieve  success, 
inter  alia,  through  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change. Let me assure all of those present that Austria 
will remain committed to supporting the United Nations 
and its goals, both as a Member State and as the host 
country to one of its headquarters.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for  this 
meeting. 
Before giving the floor to speakers in exercise of the 
right of reply, may I remind members that statements in 
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes 
for  the  first  intervention,  and  to  7  minutes  for  the 
second intervention, and should be made by delegations 
from their seats.
Ms.  Gambhir  (India):  I  take  the  floor  today  in 
exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  in  response  to  the  long 
tirade  earlier  today  by  the  representative  of  Pakistan 
about  the  situation  in  the  Indian  State  of  Jammu  and 
Kashmir (see A/71/PV.11). The worst violation of human 
rights  is  terrorism;  when  practiced  as  an  instrument 
of  State  policy,  it  becomes  a  war  crime.  What  my 
country and other neighbours in our region are facing 
today is Pakistan’s long-standing policy of sponsoring 
terrorism, the consequences of which have spread well 
beyond our region.
Only  last  week,  the  international  community 
honoured  the  memory  of  the  thousands  of  innocent 
victims  around  the  world  who  lost  their  lives  not 
far  from  here  in  New  York,  15  years  ago,  in  a  most 
horrifying  terrorist  attack.  The  world  has  not  yet 
forgotten  that  the  trail  of  that  dastardly  attack  led  all 
the way to Abbottabad, in Pakistan. The land of Taxila, 
one  of  the  greatest  learning  centres  of  ancient  times, 
is now host to the Ivy League of terrorism. It attracts 
aspirants and apprentices from all over the world. The 
effects of its toxic curriculum are felt across the globe.
It is therefore ironic that we have heard today the 
preaching  of  human  rights  and  ostensible  support  for 
16-29503
29/30
A/71/PV.13 
21/09/2016
self-determination  by  a  country  that  has  established 
itself as the global epicentre of terrorism. Shortly before 
Pakistan  gave  its  hypocritical  sermon  in  the  Hall,  its 
envoy in New Delhi was summoned in the context of the 
most recent of the terror attacks, in Uri, which claimed 
18 Indian lives. That terrorist attack is part of a trail of 
the continuous flow of terrorists trained and armed by 
our neighbour and tasked to carry out terrorist attacks 
in my country.
What  we  see  in  Pakistan  is  a  terrorist  State  that 
channels  billions  of  dollars,  much  of  it  diverted 
from  international  aid,  to  training,  financing  and 
supporting terrorist groups as militant proxies against 
its  neighbours.  Terrorist  entities  and  their  leaders, 
including  many  so  designated  by  the  United  Nations, 
continue to roam its streets freely and operate with State 
support.  With  the  approval  of  the  authorities,  many 
terrorist  organizations  raise  funds  openly,  in  flagrant 
violation of Pakistan’s international obligations.
Even  today,  we  have  heard  support  expressed  by 
the Prime Minister of Pakistan for a self-acknowledged 
commander of a known terrorist organization, Hizbul 
Mujahideen.  Pakistan  is  a  country  with  a  democracy 
deficit. In fact, it practices terrorism on its own people. 
It  extends  support  to  extremist  groups,  suppresses 
minorities and women, and denies basic human rights, 
including through draconian laws. 
As a democracy, India is firmly resolved to protect 
all our citizens from all acts of terrorism in Jammu and 
Kashmir.  We  cannot  and  will  not  allow  terrorism  to 
prevail.
Finally,  we  have  heard  Pakistan,  whose  nuclear 
proliferation record is marked by deception and deceit, 
talk  about  restraint,  renunciation  and  peace.  It  has 
made similar false promises to us — the international 
community  —  on  terrorism.  Perhaps  the  renunciation 
of  lies  and  self-restraint  on  threats  would  be  a  good 
place for Pakistan to start.
Mr. Faisal (Pakistan): The Indian Government has 
chosen  to  criticize  the  statement  made  by  the  Prime 
Minister  of  Pakistan  (see  A/71/PV.11),  which  reflects 
the sentiments and aspirations of the oppressed people 
of Jammu and Kashmir. For 70 years they have faced the 
bullets, repression and brutality of an illegal occupation. 
No number of statements can alter that historical fact. 
The  dispute  involving  Jammu  and  Kashmir  cannot 
be  wished  away.  Pakistan  will  continue  to  stand  by 
the people of Jammu and Kashmir and extend its full 
diplomatic and political support to their movement for 
freedom from Indian oppression.
and  unprecedented  protests 
The cold-blooded murder of Burhan Wani sparked 
widespread 
across 
Kashmir, which were spontaneous and indigenous and 
provided irrefutable evidence of the Kashmiri people’s 
rejection of the Indian occupation. Peaceful protesters 
were  mercilessly  fired  upon,  blinded  and  critically 
injured.  Yet  the  use  of  brutal  force  cannot  extinguish 
their  burning  aspirations.  Every  day,  young  and  old 
come,  defying  the  curfew  and  dodging  the  bullets  as 
they  seek  merely  to  assert  their  right  to  determine 
their own destiny. The right to self-determination has 
been promised to them by the international community 
through  a  series  of  Security  Council  resolutions. 
Although  that  promise  has  yet  to  be  realized  seven 
decades  later,  time  has  not  weakened  their  resolve  or 
their aspirations. In fact, that goal remains active and 
vibrant in the hearts of the Kashmiris.
The people of Indian-occupied Kashmir look to the 
international  community,  especially  the  members  of 
the Security Council, to deliver on the pledge to hold a 
free, fair and impartial plebiscite under United Nations 
auspices, so as to enable the people there to decide their 
future.  That  is  the  democratic  and  legal  right  of  the 
Kashmiri people. No amount of verbiage on the part of 
the Indian delegation can obfuscate that reality.
The meeting rose at 9.10 p.m.
30/30 
16-29503
