United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
17th plenary meeting
Friday, 23 September 2016, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.17
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Balé (Congo), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m.
Address by Mr. Bujar Nishani, President of the 
Republic of Albania
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Albania.
into 
Mr.  Bujar  Nishani,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Albania,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Bujar Nishani, 
President of the Republic of Albania, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Nishani:  It  is  a  special  pleasure  for 
me,  in  my  capacity  of  Head  of  State  of  the  Republic 
of  Albania,  to  address  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-first session.
At the outset, I wish to greet, and hail the election 
of,  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  Peter 
Thomson,  and  to  wish  him  good  luck  and  every 
success  in  fulfilling  the  agenda  and  the  ambitious 
commitments undertaken.
Above  and  beyond  the  honour  and  privilege 
of  addressing  the  Assembly,  I  also  feel  a  specific 
responsibility 
to  provide  a  modest  contribution, 
especially  during  this  important  time  of  regional  and 
global  developments,  when  our  attention  has  been 
focused on ensuring sustainable development.
I  would  like  to  express  deep  appreciation  for  the 
substantial vision and role of the Secretary-General and 
his  contribution  at  the  helm  of  the  United  Nations  by 
drawing our attention to fundamental issues associated 
with values and human dignity and to issues related to 
peace and security on our common planet.
This  year  Albania  celebrated 
the  sixty-first 
anniversary  of  its  membership  in  the  United  Nations, 
and  it  is  with  legitimate  pleasure  that  I  emphasize 
that  my  country  remains  faithful  to  the  principles 
of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  makes  a  maximal 
contribution, using all of its potential and capacities, to 
ensure peace and safety and to improve human rights.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  assure  the  Assembly 
that  my  country  has  the  necessary  sensitivity  to  the 
challenges facing the world today and that it supports 
all common efforts to address them, with an unwavering 
conviction that conflict prevention and ensuring global 
peace and security, with a focus on the attention paid to 
people and to human society, require close cooperation 
and coordination.
In  addressing 
these  challenges,  Albania 
is 
inclusively  and  comprehensively  engaged  in  crisis 
prevention. Its engagement is focused on humanitarian 
aid; its contribution to regional stability and security; 
sustainable  development;  ratification  of  the  Paris 
Agreement  and  the  depositing  of  the  instruments 
of 
the 
ratification  with 
the  Secretary-General; 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29667 (E)
*1629667*
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
implementation of all of its commitments in the field of 
security and its appreciated and assessed contribution 
at  the  regional  and  international  levels;  and  playing 
a  proactive  role  on  international  platforms  for  the 
promotion and advancement of human rights.
Albania  also  views  the  implementation  of  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  as  an 
international platform for strengthening the connection 
between  development  and  security,  in  the  belief  that 
the Agenda will serve as a guide for our action aimed 
at  sustainable  development  over  the  next  15  years  for 
peoples, the planet, peace, partnership and prosperity.
the 
Albania is a pilot country in designing the global 
indicators  for 
implementation  of  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  16,  for  peace,  justice  and  strong 
and  consolidated  institutions.  I  take  this  opportunity 
to  announce  that  Albania  is  determined  to  be  active 
at  the  third  United  Nations  Conference  on  Housing 
and  Sustainable  Urban  Development,  which  offers  a 
unique  opportunity  for  the  adoption  of  a  new  urban 
global agenda to strengthen relationships and synergies 
among  urbanization  and  sustainable  development  and 
climate change.
The  2030  Agenda  and  the  Paris  Agreement  are 
rightly  considered  to  be  opportunities  to  create  a 
better  life  for  present  and  future  generations.  The 
implementation of these two international documents, in 
the context of which Albania is working proactively, is 
rightly considered a key global strategy for coping with 
climate change, achieving sustainable development and 
addressing  international  assistance  and  peacemaking 
and peacebuilding issues.
Albania  was  among  those  countries  that  quickly 
ratified  the  Paris  Agreement,  with  the  sole  aim  of 
contributing to the acceleration of its entry into effect 
and becoming active as soon as possible.
In May, I welcomed and attended the first Global 
Humanitarian  Summit,  organized  and  held  under  the 
auspices of the Secretary-General in Istanbul. I would 
note  in  particular  Albania’s  support  for  the  Agenda 
for Humanity and the view that a shift from perpetual 
crisis management to effective management in the area 
of prevention and early action is urgently needed. I am 
convinced that this Agenda will help us to translate the 
initiative  into  action  for  the  good  of  humankind  and 
generations to come.
Albania is joining in the international community’s 
efforts  to  deal  with  migration  and  refugee  flows  in  a 
consistent  and  coordinated  manner.  Today,  realities 
on the ground and at the policy level are leading, even 
forcing, us to change our approach at the regional level 
and beyond, in order to take qualitative steps forward 
in our work, approach and cooperation on migration.
Albania, as a European Union candidate country and 
in anticipation of the opening of accession negotiations, 
has embraced all of the positions and commitments of 
the European Union whenever required and necessary. 
Even within the framework of the Agenda for Humanity, 
Albania has joined the European Union positions and 
will contribute with all of its potential and capabilities 
to meeting those commitments.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  compliment  once  again 
the  Secretary-General  on  the  report  published  earlier 
this year entitled “One humanity: shared responsibility” 
(A/70/709),  as  well  as  to  reaffirm  the  support  of  my 
country for the basic principles set out in that report. It 
offers us a complete picture of the sad reality of human 
society,  the  humanitarian  situation  and  human  rights 
around the world.
Another  fundamental  challenge  to  the  common 
values of human society is the fight against international 
terrorism  and  violent  extremism.  A  few  days  ago, 
the  citizens  of  New  York,  the  city  in  which  we  have 
gathered today, and all other American citizens felt the 
pain  and  grief  of  commemorating  the  victims  of  the 
terrorist attacks that took place 15 years ago.
Terrorist  attacks,  especially  those  with  religious 
motivations,  have  intensified  in  recent  years,  striking 
with ferocity and savagery at the major cities of France, 
Belgium,  Turkey,  Kuwait,  Egypt,  Tunisia,  Lebanon 
and many other countries across the world, aiming to 
intimidate our societies and bring them to their knees.
In this context, Albania appreciates the pivotal role 
played by the United Nations in the global fight against 
terrorism  and  the  prevention  of  violent  extremism,  as 
we  consider  the  Organization  as  a  key  actor.  Albania 
also supports the Secretary-General’s Plan of Action to 
Prevent  Violent  Extremism  (A/70/674)  and  the  active 
role of the United Nations in finding political solutions 
and  addressing  the  root  causes  of  conflict  in  areas 
so affected.
Albania reaffirms its support for Security Council 
resolutions  2170  (2014),  2178  (2014)  and  2253  (2015), 
2/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
to 
fully 
is  committed 
which  require  States  to  take  the  measures  necessary 
to  ensure  respect  for  and  the  upholding  of  human 
rights, as well as address the issue of so-called foreign 
fighters and the financing of international terrorism. At 
present, Albania is enlisted in and, like other proactive 
countries, 
implementing 
the  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy.  Given  our 
experience of many centuries of peaceful, harmonious 
religious coexistence, as well as the need to address this 
challenge domestically, Albania is implementing a pilot 
programme  for  preventing  and  countering  terrorism 
and  violent  extremism  through  education,  with  the 
ambition of turning that programme into a platform of 
dimensions wider than a purely domestic one. Albania 
is  ready  to  share  its  experience  with  other  countries 
and peoples.
Given the policies that it has pursued over the past 
two decades, Albania has become increasingly active in 
contributing to security issues in the international arena. 
My  country  has  ensured  its  role  and  is  strengthening 
that role through its proactive membership in the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization, its clear support for and 
concrete  commitment  to  the  implementation  of  the 
Common Security and Defence Policy mechanisms of 
the European Union, and its support for and participation 
in United Nations operations and in the policy advisory 
assistance  missions  carried  out  in  Afghanistan  and 
Sudan. Furthermore, Albania has strengthened its role 
through  participating  in  missions  of  the  Organization 
for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  improving 
its  strategic  partnership  with  the  United  States  and 
the  European  Union  and  engaging  seriously  in  the 
fight against terrorism and combating threats to peace 
and  security  in  the  world.  Since  September  1996, 
Albania  has  contributed  6,528  troops  to  international 
peacekeeping operations. 
Albania  believes  that  the  peace  process  in  the 
Middle  East  can  be  maintained  through  negotiations 
and that the parties involved should take advantage of 
the energy and attention provided by the international 
community actors towards a final and lasting solution 
of this issue.
Albania also confirms its support for the efforts of 
the United Nations to facilitate a peace process in Syria, 
and  it  hailed  the  engagements  aimed  at  establishing 
peace in Syria, opening and securing the humanitarian 
aid  and  assistance  routes,  and  fighting  Da’esh  and 
Al-Nusra  with  determination.  But  the  developments 
that  have  unfolded  in  recent  days  and  hours  are 
very  worrying.  The  attacks  on  and  interruption  of 
humanitarian  aid  convoys  to  the  civilian  population 
undermine the efforts to reach an armistice and put an 
end to the violence.
Albania  has  recently  followed  with  concern  the 
nuclear  tests  carried  out  in  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  and  has  condemned  them  as  open, 
systematic  and  provocative  acts  in  violation  of  the 
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  of  the  United 
Nations. Those acts affect peace and security in North-
East Asia, as well as worldwide, and Albania therefore 
demands  that  that  country  comply  with  and  enforce 
international law and the United Nations resolutions.
Albania  devotes  special  attention 
to  regional 
cooperation  in  its  entirety.  Our  foreign  policy  is 
maximally  oriented  towards  the  strengthening  of 
good-neighbourly  relations  with  all  of  the  countries 
of  the  region  and  their  full-fledged  integration  into 
Euro-Atlantic processes. The energetic engagement of 
Albania in that context and its active and constructive 
role in all regional initiatives have helped to strengthen 
political,  economic  and  human  development  among 
all  partner  countries  in  the  region,  with  the  goal 
of  establishing  an  integration  agenda  among  those 
countries, the European Union and the Western Balkan 
countries  as  part  of  a  common  journey  of  regional 
countries towards European Union membership.
good 
democratic 
institutions, 
Albania  supports  Kosovo’s  participation  in  all 
multilateral, regional and international activities, based 
on  the  fundamental  principle  that  all  countries  in  the 
region  should  actively  participate  in  and  contribute 
to  the  process  of  regional  cooperation.  Kosovo  has 
made  extraordinary  achievements  in  consolidating 
its 
governance, 
the  multi-ethnic  coexistence  of  religions  and,  in 
particular,  progress  in  the  Euro-Atlantic  processes. 
The independence of Kosovo has served to strengthen 
peace,  stability  and  security  and  has 
inspired 
reconciliation in the region. In that spirit, we support 
and encourage — with no hesitation — progress in the 
ongoing dialogue between Kosovo and Serbia, which is 
being mediated and facilitated by the European Union 
and supported by the United States. We consider those 
talks to be a very suitable platform for ironing out all of 
the outstanding issues so that they can set their sights 
towards the future.
Albania  will  continue  to  strongly  support  the 
expansion  of  the  international  recognition  of  Kosovo 
16-29667
3/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
supports 
and of the active role that it can play as a fully fledged 
member in all regional organizations, just as we support 
the inexorable process of its membership in international 
organizations.  That  process 
inclusive 
international  policies  and  Kosovo’s  contribution  to 
global  policies,  and  also  strengthens  peace,  security 
and development in the Balkan region. Today, Kosovo 
is  recognized  by  109  United  Nations  Member  States, 
and  I  am  convinced  that  soon  other  Members  of  the 
Organization  will  recognize  it,  contributing  to  the 
further  strengthening  of  peace  and  stability  in  the 
region of South-East Europe and beyond.
Albania  is  fully  committed  to  the  process  of 
European  integration,  and  we  consider  the  prospect 
of  European  Union  membership  as  an  indispensable 
stimulus  for  far-reaching  reforms  in  the  interest  of 
strengthening the rule of law and achieving sustainable 
development  in  my  country.  The  European  Union  is 
facing  severe  challenges,  especially  after  Brexit,  but 
Albania  is  determined  to  pursue  the  path  of  reforms, 
considering  European  integration  its  major  objective 
and its best — and only — alternative.
In conclusion, I would like to confirm once again 
the  determination  of  Albania  to  continue  its  support 
for  the  United  Nations  agenda,  particularly  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  which  seeks  to 
ensure  sustainable  development  in  all  countries,  We 
also support efforts to further strengthen and enhance 
the role of the Organization on the global level.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Albania  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Bujar  Nishani,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Albania,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Alpha Condé, President of the 
Republic of Guinea
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Guinea.
Mr.  Alpha  Condé,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Guinea,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
into 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Alpha Condé, 
President of the Republic of Guinea, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Condé (spoke in French): My delegation 
would like to begin by congratulating Mr. Thomson on 
his well-deserved election as President of the General 
Assembly at this session, and I would like to assure the 
President  that  he  will  haveour  complete  support  for  a 
successful session. It is also my pleasure to pay a well-
deserved tribute to the previous President, Mr. Mogens 
Lykketoft,  for  the  transparent  and  dynamic  approach 
with which he led the activities of the General Assembly 
during its seventieth session.
On  25  September  2015,  in  this  Hall,  the  leaders 
of the world put together their vision for the world for 
the  period  up  to  2030  by  adopting  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  its  17  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  At  the  heart  of  that  Agenda  lies 
an  ambition  for  the  international  community  to  work 
tirelessly  to  eradicate  poverty  in  all  its  forms  and 
dimensions so to create inclusive, fair and prosperous 
societies  that  are  respectful  of  the  environment  and 
human rights. Such an ambition clearly initiates a shift 
in  the  paradigm  for  development,  which  is  rendered 
necessary  not  only  by  the  multiple  challenges  that 
face humankind, but also by irreversible relationships 
of interdependence.
A review of the world in which we live today does 
not inspire great optimism. The gap between the rich 
and the poor continues to grow. The number of massive 
population  displacements  is  also  on  the  rise.  Various 
crises  and  conflicts  emerge  and  sometimes  persist, 
making  our  planet  ever  more  vulnerable  to  climate 
change.  Such  developments  are  alarming,  and  they 
require  a  global,  integrated,  cohesive  and  concerted 
approach  that  links  words  to  actions  tot  launch  a 
collective  effort  consisting  of  vigorous  and  sustained 
actions aimed at achieving the sustainable prosperity of 
humankind. In that regard, we would like to welcome 
the  President’s  choice  of  a  theme  for  this  session: 
“Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a  new  impetus  to 
transform our world”. That theme will, we hope, lead to 
the creation of the necessary foundations on which we 
can move towards those goals.
The  scarcity  of  financial  resources  available  for 
development  is  cause  for  the  reappraisal  of  official 
development assistance so as to make it more effective, 
particularly  for  the  most  vulnerable  countries.  Such 
4/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
to  make 
development  assistance  will  help 
those 
countries  more  resistant  to  economic,  social  and 
environmental  shocks,  both  inside  and  outside  their 
borders.  In  that  framework,  Africa  is  the  continent 
with  the  youngest  population  in  the  world  and  the 
most vulnerable countries, which should be especially 
borne  in  mind  as  we  implement  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
To  reduce  its  vulnerability  and  build  up  its 
resistance to shocks, Africa will need deep structural 
transformation  in  order  to  develop  a  dynamic  private 
sector — an engine for development. The development 
and  implementation  of  public  policies  should  fully 
involve  the  creation  of  employment  and  economic 
opportunities  for  the  most  vulnerable  parts  of  the 
population,  specifically  women  and  young  people,  so 
as  to  include  them  effectively  in  socioeconomic  life 
and enable them to develop their potential. Substantial 
investment in making women and young people more 
independent is needed, particularly because the scourges 
of  terrorism,  extremism  and  intolerance,  as  well  as 
trafficking in illicit arms and drugs, all accentuate the 
misery  and  weakness  of  the  most  vulnerable  parts  of 
the population.
Partnerships  and  innovative  financing  schemes 
are  needed  to  accelerate  dynamic  growth  in  Africa. 
New technologies must, therefore, serve the interest of 
sustainable development. 
Changing  the  economic  model  on  the  African 
continent  is  impossible  without  sustainable  access 
to  energy.  That  is  a  challenge  for  Africa.  Today, 
seven  out  of  ten  Africans  —  a  total  of  700  million 
Africans  —  do  not  have  access  to  electricity.  That  is 
why the Heads of State and Government of the African 
Union countries decided to work with the support of the 
international community on a robust plan to accelerate 
the  electrification  of  the  continent  through  renewable 
energies,  so  that  we  can  move  from  25  to  80  per 
cent  access  to  energy  in  10  years.  A  fund  devoted  to 
financing  renewable  energy  in  Africa  has  been  put 
in place to collect contributions for Africa within the 
framework of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. 
As a spokesman for Africa on renewable energies, 
I  would  like  to  call  on  the  international  community, 
particularly 
to  work  with 
our  continent  in  implementing  those  objectives  so 
that  we  can  build  a  strong  African  continent  that  is 
institutions, 
financial 
respectful  of  commitments  to  the  environment  and 
sustainable development.
Development can be sustainable only with peace and 
stability. Peace and stability cannot be ensured without 
development.  We  therefore  need  to  state  that  peace, 
an  essential  asset  for  the  harmonious  development  of 
humankind, continues to face great challenges. 
Terrorism has struck around the world, threatening 
peace  and  international  stability.  We  firmly  condemn 
the barbarous acts that have struck Mali, Burkina Faso, 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  France,  Turkey  and  Pakistan,  to  name 
just  a  few.  We  reiterate  our  deep  sympathy  for  and 
solidarity with all countries affected by such instances 
of obscurantism. We are convinced that, although one 
might  try  to  defeat  terrorism  using  military  means 
alone,  it  cannot  be  prevented  or  contained  except 
by  significant  socioeconomic  investments  aimed  at 
reducing radicalization.
In  the  Middle  East,  terror  and  mindless  violence 
have  led  to  desolation  in  Syria  and  Yemen,  while  the 
international community has still not managed to reach 
a sustainable resolution to the conflicts in the region. 
Our  collective  passivity  regarding  the  impasse  in  the 
Israeli-Palestinian  peace  process  also  dangerously 
reduces  the  possibilities  for  a  successful  resolution 
to  the  conflict.  Guinea  has  always  unambiguously 
expressed  its  unconditional  solidarity  with  the  just 
Palestinian cause, and we are convinced that the solution 
needed in the Middle East must be based on two States 
living  peacefully,  side  by  side,  within  internationally 
recognized borders. 
Regarding  the  embargo  that  has  for  a  long  time 
afflicted  Cuba,  we  encourage  all  efforts  to  normalize 
relations between that country and the United States.
On the African continent, new and old crises — often 
fratricidal  —  continue  to  undermine  stability.  We 
welcome the support extended by this Organization to 
build  peace  in  Africa,  specifically  in  Central  Africa 
and Mali. Guinea has actively contributed to the efforts 
of  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in Mali through the deployment 
of a battalion of 850 men in Kidal. However, it has paid 
the heavy price of losing nine soldiers to violent attacks 
committed  by  terrorist  groups  that  are  threatening 
the  stability  of  the  region.  That  is  why  we  ask,  while 
maintaining  respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  States 
and  the  peacekeeping  mandates,  for  the  adoption  of 
a  legal  framework  that  endows  the  United  Nations 
16-29667
5/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
with  stronger  power  regarding  counter-terrorism. 
That  will  enable  international  forces  to  improve  their 
intelligence  capacities  in  order  to  better  defend  and 
fight back against terrorist attacks. With that in mind, 
the  President  of  Liberia  and  I  recently  carried  out  a 
mission in Guinea-Bissau. In that regard, a preventive, 
coordinated,  concerted  and  coherent  approach  on  a 
daily basis seems required so as to be able to grasp the 
profound causes of such crises and the factors that help 
perpetuate them.
We welcome the adoption on 27 April of the almost 
identical  resolutions  —  General  Assembly  resolution 
70/262 and Security Council resolution 2282 (2016) —
on the United Nations peacebuilding architecture, with 
particular emphasis on prevention and the integration of 
women and young people in all sectors of activity in our 
societies. Guinea — which, at its request, was inscribed 
on  the  agenda  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  in 
2011  —  believes  that  such  a  framework  offers  us  the 
opportunity  to  evaluate  the  nature  and  scope  of  our 
collaboration with the Commission in order to keep it 
in line with our needs.
If  I  may,  I  will  share  with  the  Assembly  some 
aspects  of  the  current  situation  of  Guinea.  After  two 
stressful years, Guinea became free of the transmission 
of the Ebola virus as of 29 December 2015. The fight 
against Ebola was difficult and arduous, but our efforts, 
supported by the international community, have put an 
end to that terrible disease. I would like to pay tribute 
to the solidarity shown by other countries affected by 
the  epidemic.  The  victory  against  Ebola  belongs  to 
everyone and is something that we should all celebrate. 
However,  the  road  before  us  is  long,  because  the 
epidemic has greatly undermined all economic activity 
in our country. The most vulnerable people, particularly 
women  and  children,  have  been  made  even  more 
vulnerable, and our challenges lie in the need to ensure 
their  social  reinsertion.  The  virulence  of  the  disease 
has identified the weaknesses of our health-care system 
and the sectors that need special attention in order to 
ensure the resilience of our people and our continent.
Therefore, 
in 
the  context  of 
the  post-Ebola 
recovery, Guinea has developed its strategy, which was 
presented here, along with those of Liberia and Sierra 
Leone, at the International Ebola Recovery Conference 
organized  by  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon.  We 
wish to express our gratitude to our partners who have 
fulfilled the pledges that they made at the Conference, 
and  invite  others  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  make 
their  promises  a  reality,  so  that  Guinea,  Liberia  and 
Sierra Leone will be are able to reconnect quickly with 
sustainable development.
Despite the Ebola epidemic, the people of Guinea 
have demonstrated remarkable resilience and solidarity. 
That  has  allowed  us  to  pursue  many  reforms  aimed 
at  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  and  at  developing  a 
framework  conducive  to  investment  and  governance 
that  inclludes  all  components  of  society.  On  the 
macroeconomic  front,  after  a  long  period  of  fiscal 
restraint, the country has just concluded its eighth and 
final review with the International Monetary Fund.
The  United  Nations  remains  the  only  viable 
alternative  for 
the  promotion  and  emergence  of 
prosperous and inclusive societies that respect human 
rights  and  the  environment.  Nevertheless,we  cannot 
deny  that  our  Organization  must  constantly  reform 
its bodies and its working methods so as to be able to 
address threats to peace and security and the challenges 
of  underdevelopment  and  to  assist  in  the  effective 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals.
I wish to conclude by paying tribute and expressing 
our  sincere  gratitude 
to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for his leadership and immense contribution 
to the world that we are all aspiring to build. We thank 
him for his tireless efforts and dedication, particularly 
with  regard  to  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change. Those agreements will certainly form 
a  significant  part  of  the  legacy  of  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon to the United Nations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Guinea for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Alpha  Condé,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Guinea,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Mahamadou Issoufou, President of 
the Republic of the Niger
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of the Niger.
6/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
Issoufou,  President  of 
Mr.  Mahamadou 
the 
Republic of the Niger, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Mahamadou 
Issoufou, President of the Republic of the Niger, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Issoufou  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  now 
71  years  since  our  Organization,  the  United  Nations, 
was  created  to  ensure  peace,  security,  cooperation, 
economic  development  and  respect  for  human  rights 
worldwide.  During  those  71  years,  our  Organization 
has been successful in those areas. That success would 
have been impossible without the work and unwavering 
dedication  shown  by  the  tens  of  thousands  of  women 
and men employed today by the United Nation. I would 
like to take this opportunity to honour them.
I also pay tribute to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, 
who has led our Organization with courage and wisdom 
throughout the past decade. I congratulate him on his 
work,  particularly  regarding  the  Paris  Agreement 
on  Climate  Change,  where  his  commitment  proved 
instrumental,  and  also  for  his  role  in  the  adoption  of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Finally, 
I would like to express once again our gratitude for his 
commitment to Africa, and to the Niger in particular.
We  could  always  count  on  his  support  during  the 
multifaceted crises that our country has experienced in 
recent years.
In September last year, we adopted the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, which aims to eradicate 
poverty  by  that  year  and  leave  no  one  behind  in  the 
process. At the heart of that project is our commitment 
to place mankind at the centre of development and meet 
the requirements and limitations of our planet Earth in 
terms of our production and consumption habits.
Two  months  later,  the  adoption  of  the  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change came to complete that 
important  campaign  through  a  package  of  actions 
aiming,  on  the  one  hand,  at  limiting  the  rise  in  the 
average global temperature to less than 2°C, thanks to 
courageous measures to mitigate the causes of climate 
change,  and  on  the  other  hand,  at  taking  measures  to 
strengthen  resilience  in  the  face  of  climate  change. 
Therefore, the theme of this session — “The Sustainable 
Development Goals: a universal push to transform our 
world” — is very much in line with the transformational 
vision and mission of the climate-change programme.
The  evaluation  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  in  late  2015  showed  that  even  though 
not  all  the  Goals  were  met,  remarkable  progress  had 
indeed been made. We note in that connection that in 
the fight against poverty, the goal of halving the number 
of  people  living  in  extreme  poverty  was  achieved  in 
2010.  Similarly,  in  education,  the  number  of  school-
age children not in school was halved, and in the health 
area, infant and maternal mortality was also halved. 
Unfortunately,  those  positive  results  hide  huge 
disparities and inequalities. In fact, those results were 
strongly  influenced  by  progress  in  Asia  and  Latin 
America owing to high and sustained growth rates there 
over the period. African countries, especially those in 
the  sub-Saharan  region,  have  seen  little  progress  and 
continue  to  face  significant  challenges  in  terms  of 
development and the fight against poverty.
The  results  obtained  through  the  achievement 
of  the  MDGs  are  the  starting  point  from  which  we 
begin  our  journey  towards  fulfilling  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  by  2030.  Our  capacity  to  achieve 
our  goals  by  that  deadline  will  depend  on  our  ability 
to  change  political  and  economic  conditions,  both  in 
individual countries and on a global scale. It will also 
depend on our ability to honour the commitments we 
undertook at the Paris Conference on Climate Change.
Turning  to  political  and  economic  conditions, 
the  current  situation  does  not  inspire  optimism.  It  is, 
therefore, essential that we create a new type of political 
and economic governance worldwide. In the economic 
sphere, it is obvious that the functioning of the global 
economy must be fully re-evaluated. We need to find 
a  better  balance  between  speculative  financial  capital 
and industrial capital by orienting more capital towards 
the real economy. Such a new approach would enable 
developing countries to receive more capital and more 
investment.  That,  in  turn,  would  sustain  stronger 
economic growth, which would lead to global economic 
growth and stability.
in 
the 
International  measures  to  support  direct  foreign 
investment 
least  developed  countries  are  
important,  something  that  we  should  put  in  place  as 
soon  as  possible.  They  are  crucial  in  the  framework 
of  the  support  that  that  group  of  countries  requires 
in  order  to  realize  economic  and  social  development. 
The  fact  that  such  a  programme  seeks  to  strengthen 
16-29667
7/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
assistance  to  those  countries  that  need  it  most, 
specifically  the  least  developed  countries,  reveals  the 
inclusive dimension of the programme. We welcome in 
particular the willingness to step up the implementation 
of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Least  Developed 
Countries for the Decade 2011-2020, reaffirmed in the 
Istanbul  Declaration,  and  the  Programme  of  Action 
resulting from the Midterm Review Conference for the 
Istanbul Programme of Action for the Least Developed 
Countries, held in Antalya, Turkey, last May.
first 
The  Technology  Bank  for  the  Least  Developed 
Countries,  whose 
three-year  strategic  plan 
was  approved  by  its  governing  body  in  July,  will  be 
commissioned in 2017 and will be a valuable instrument 
for promoting infrastructure development, diversifying 
production and creating added value. That is essential 
for strengthening income-generation and increasing the 
incomes of people in those countries.
the 
Reforming 
international  financial  system, 
creating  new  possibilities  for  access  to  sources  of 
financing, and establishing an adequate framework for 
restructuring  sovereign  debt  are  all  are  indispensable 
measures  if  we  are  to  strengthen  the  economic 
capabilities  of  developing  countries  in  the  area  of 
financing  sustainable  development.  The  same  applies 
to mobilizing the private sector and encouraging it to 
take  a  greater  stake  in  working  towards  the  goals  of 
collective development.
With  regard  to  the  United  Nations,  we  encourage 
the  long-term  positioning  of  United  Nations  funds, 
programmes  and  agencies  to  favour  development. 
Such an approach is about promoting consistency and 
complementarity,  which  are  key  for  the  development 
work of those entities to be effective. Programmes that 
are at the centre of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs)  must  make  it  possible  for  Africa  to  become 
better integrated into global trade. But that integration 
will be beneficial to the continent only if we put an end 
to the unequal terms of trade. 
Several  studies  have  in  fact  demonstrated  that 
if the share of African countries in global trade were 
to  increase  by  only  1  per  cent,  that  would  provide 
additional annual income of more than $200 billion —  
about five times the amount received by Africa in the 
form  of  official  development  assistance.  Concretely, 
Africa would receive greater resources if the unequal 
exchanges were discontinued. 
Africa must also have the firm political resolve to 
develop intra-African commerce, which now accounts 
for only 10 per cent of trade. We need for it to reach a 
level that would strengthen our position in global trade. 
Reaching the Sustainable Development Goals will 
be feasible only with greater synergy in action, robust 
solidarity and, most importantly, respect for all of the 
commitments  undertaken  by  the  global  partnerships 
for development.
On  the  political  front,  the  United  Nations  needs 
thorough reform. The governance of the United Nations, 
in particular the Security Council, needs to be reviewed. 
That process is long overdue. The Organization should 
be made effective and legitimate in the way it addresses 
essential issues of peace and international security. The 
reform must rectify the existing anachronisms — both 
the current system of geographical representation in the 
Council, and the methods whereby decisions are taken. 
The  consequences  of  those  methods  are  sometimes 
disastrous and have had effects that are the opposite of 
what is sought.
On 
the  modalities 
of  Security  Council 
decision-making, it is essential that the countries most 
affected  in  issues  before  the  Council,  especially  the 
neighbouring  countries  of  countries  in  conflict,  be 
involved  and  heard  in  the  conflict-resolution  process. 
Neighbouring  countries,  which  often  share  the  same 
communities on both sides of the borders, are the first 
to suffer from the effects of conflict. The Council must 
therefore  absolutely  take  into  account  the  concerns 
expressed by those countries so as to avoid situations of 
the kind that currently exists in Libya.
The field of peacekeeping operations is of particular 
interest  to  the  Niger,  a  country  that  is  engaged  in  a 
merciless struggle against terrorism and in protecting 
its  territory.  Based  on  experience,  and  faced  with  the 
evidence  of  the  inadequacy  of  current  approaches  to 
peacekeeping, which have shown their limits on many 
occasions,  we  are  convinced  that  those  approaches 
can and should be improved. In that regard, the Niger 
believes  that  the  mandates  of  certain  United  Nations 
missions  urgently  need  revision  so  as  to  strengthen 
their  offensive  capabilities,  with  a  view  to  improving 
their  ability  to  respond  to  the  challenge  of  protecting 
civilians. 
My country fully supports a major strategic change, 
particularly given the general trend of attacks by warring 
parties  and  other  non-State  groups  against  civilians. 
8/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
For  the  populations  concerned,  it  is  inconceivable 
that,  in  the  face  of  terrorist  acts  and  abuses  inflicted 
on  local  people,  the  peacekeeping  missions  deployed 
on  the  ground  to  protect  them  are  powerless  to  avert 
the imminent massacres of civilians at the most crucial 
moments.  The  missions  must  be  able  to  take  decisive 
and effective action.
In  reality,  no  one  can  predict  what  is  going  to 
happen between now and 2030. All we can say is that we 
will not be able to achieve the Sustainable Development 
Goals unless there is a profound change in political and 
economic governance. We live in an uncertain world. 
We  live  in  an  unstable  world  that  is  facing  all  types 
of  visible  and  invisible  threats.  Achieving  the  SDGs 
in  an  unstable  and  chaotic  world  will  therefore  be  a 
non-linear, unstable and chaotic process that can suffer 
great impacts from small things. 
I  recall  the  famous  metaphor  of  the  so-called 
butterfly effect, whereby a butterfly flapping its wings 
in Brazil can cause a storm in Texas. The butterfly effect 
is that drop of water that makes the vase overflow. The 
signs of tension that we see here and there in the world 
can be the little sparks that might provoke a vast fire. 
These  signs  of  tension  are  currently  being  obscured 
by  the  fight  against  terrorism,  but  the  rivalries  and 
other competitions among the great Powers can lead to 
irreparable consequences.
Small countries often bear the costs of the rivalries 
of  the  great  Powers  and  suffer  the  consequences  of 
some  of  their  failures  to  understand.  The  chaos  that 
we  are  currently  seeing  in  Libya  and  its  impacts  on 
neighbouring countries attest to that fact. Those effects 
and the presence of terrorist organizations in northern 
Mali and in the Lake Chad Basin, where Boko Haram 
is committing atrocities, could irreparably compromise 
the  ability  of  the  countries  affected  to  achieve  the 
Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. In the Niger, 
where Boko Haram carries out regular incursions, we 
have  more  than  167,000  internally  displaced  persons, 
about  a  100,000  refugees  at  risk  of  starvation  and 
epidemics, and more than 18,000 children who cannot 
go to school. It is therefore urgent that we stabilize the 
situation  in  Libya.  It  is  urgent  that  we  help  Libya  to 
emerge  from  that  chaos.  It  is  urgent  that  we  stabilize 
Mali  and  neutralize  terrorists.  It  is  urgent  that  we 
support  the  Multinational  Joint  Task  Force  that  is 
operating in the Lake Chad Basin against Boko Haram.
The  terrorist  threats  at  our  doorstep  have  led  our 
country to redirect significant resources to the security 
sector.  Without  that,  the  Niger  could  have  achieved 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  started  the 
process of implementing the SDGs under much better 
conditions. Ten per cent of our budgetary resources have 
been oriented towards defence and security. In spite of 
that, the Niger was able to reduce poverty from 63 per 
cent  in  2011  to  45  per  cent  in  2015,  to  achieve  MDG 
1,  on  reducing  extreme  hunger  and  poverty  by  half, 
Goal  4,  on  significantly  reducing  child  and  maternal 
mortality, and the MDG target on access to water and 
sanitation in urban areas.
Our 
recovery  programme  will  allow  us 
to 
further  improve  those  results  and  move  toward  the 
implementation of the SDGs. My ambition is to leave 
the  country,  at  the  end  of  my  last  term,  radically 
transformed — a Niger where democratic institutions 
are stronger, where the fight against corruption has made 
great strides, and where inequalities have been beaten 
back and the middle class has grown; a united, peaceful 
and safe Niger with zero hunger and well equipped with 
infrastructure  of  every  kind;  a  Niger  that  has  made 
good  progress  on  its  demographic  transition  process, 
where  school  is  free  and  compulsory  for  all  persons 
under 16 years, where 40 per cent of our children attend 
vocational and technical training and leave with a trade 
or  profession,  and  where  universities  train  the  most 
competent professionals for the subregion; a Niger with 
access to health, where clean water and sanitation are 
ensured and where employment, specifically for young 
people, is abundant; and, finally, a country resolutely 
engaged on the way to the unity of our continent — in 
other words, a Niger resolutely set along the way to the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
The Acting President (spoke in French) On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  the  Niger  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Mahamadou 
the 
Republic  of  the  Niger,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Issoufou,  President  of 
16-29667
9/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
Address by His Excellency Mr. Faustin Archange 
Touadéra, President of the Central African 
Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Central African Republic.
Mr. Faustin Archange Touadéra, President of the 
Central  African  Republic,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Faustin  Archange  Touadéra,  President  of  the 
Central African Republic.
President  Touadéra  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset, may I warmly congratulate Mr. Peter Thomson 
on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at its seventy-first session. He may rest assured of the 
full  support  of  my  delegation  in  working  towards  the 
complete success of this session of the Assembly.
I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
congratulate Mr. Mogens Lykketoft of Denmark on the 
outstanding way in which he presided over the previous 
session.  May  I  also  pay  warm  tribute  to  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon, not only for what he has done 
since the previous session, but also for all the laudable 
work  he  has  so  untiringly  carried  out  to  achieve  the 
noble  objectives  of  the  United  Nations  since  he  was 
elected  10  years  ago.  I  particularly  commend  and  am 
grateful for his personal involvement and focus on my 
country, the Central African Republic, during the hard 
times that it has passed through.
It is a great honour for me to address the Assembly 
to describe the evolution of the situation in the Central 
African Republic and to share with it my country’s vision 
regarding the major issues facing our Organization. 
I stand before the Assembly today to bear witness 
to the entire international community of the recognition 
by the Central African people of the invaluable support 
to my country, the Central African Republic, which has 
now  returned  to  stability  and  constitutional  legality. 
From  this  rostrum,  on  behalf  of  the  Central  African 
people, I wish to pay tribute to all actions carried out by 
the United Nations system, particularly in connection 
with  the  deployment  of  the  international  forces  who 
are  at  this  very  time  working  to  bring  security  and 
peacebuilding in my country.
I  wish  to  express  once  again  the  gratitude  of 
the  people  of  the  Central  African  Republic  to  the 
international community in its entirety for its solidarity 
and  constant  support  during  our  efforts  to  return  to 
constitutional  legality,  thereby  putting  an  end  to  the 
political transition that was established after the coup 
of 24 March 2013.
May I also acknowledge the spirit of the people of 
the  Central  African  Republic,  who,  in  such  large  and 
determined  numbers,  voted  in  an  exemplary  election, 
thus  demonstrating  their  espousal  of  democracy  and 
constitutional  order.  I  also  pay  a  warm  tribute  to  the 
entire  political  class  in  the  Central  African  Republic 
for  the  maturity  it  displayed  to  the  entire  world  in 
respecting the voice of the people in the elections. 
As  President,  in  whom  is  vested  the  trust  of  the 
entire Central African people, I have taken stock of the 
immense challenges we face and the expectations of my 
fellow  citizens,  who  understandably  yearn  for  peace, 
national reconciliation and socioeconomic development.
The Central African Republic has turned the page 
on its dark history. Central Africans are more than ever 
determined  to  finally  break  the  cycle  of  violence  so 
as to be able to aspire legitimately to peace, security, 
justice,  freedom  and  sustainable  development.  Since 
my  accession  to  the  presidency  of  the  country,  steps 
have been taken to ensure that the Government and all 
State institutions share the common goal of rebuilding 
the country through the necessary reforms.
No  State  can  claim  to  be  able  to  develop  while 
its  economic,  social  or  indeed  its  political  fabric 
remains  plagued  by  the  evils  of  corruption,  injustice 
and impunity. I can assure the Assembly that the fight 
against  corruption  is  at  the  heart  of  our  concerns. 
Therefore,  the  Government  that  I  have  the  heavy 
responsibility of leading will spare no effort to establish 
a mechanism for the relentless fight against corruption 
and financial crime.
The Central African Republic has certainly begun 
to revive the democratic process, but the situation still 
remains fragile. Much remains to be done. That is why as 
soon as I was inaugurated as President of the Republic, 
I expressed my ambition to bring together all Central 
Africans around a State reconstruction project, so that 
we in the Central African Republic would become the 
masters of our own destiny and of the development of 
our country.
10/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
I am committed to leading the work for a political, 
economic, social and cultural transformation that will 
enable us to dispel the evils of insecurity, the dysfunction 
of political institutions, corruption, the deterioration of 
living  conditions  and  the  loss  of  moral  standards,  all 
of  which  have  undermined  our  society.  The  priorities 
of  my  Government  are  therefore  based  on  four  main 
pillars: peace and security, national reconciliation and 
administrative reform, economic recovery, and justice 
and human rights.
With regard to peace and security, the imperative 
for  the  Government  consists  in  the  rapid  application 
of the disarmament, demobilization, rehabilitation and 
repatriation  programmes  so  that  all  Central  African 
men and women of all walks of life can live in peace 
and security with one another throughout the land. 
Similarly,  security-sector  reform  remains  a  major 
concern  of  the  Government.  A  delegation  of  the 
Central  African  Republic  outlined  the  strategies  and 
programmes  for  such  reforms  in  the  Central  African 
Republic  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  in  June.  A 
decision was taken to support my country’s endeavours 
in the recognition of the efforts at dialogue with armed 
groups that I have undertaken since my assumption of 
responsibility. That is why I am taking this opportunity 
to  urge  a  major  mobilization  of  our  partners  at  the 
next  Brussels  Conference  for  the  Central  African 
Republic,  scheduled  for  17  November,  with  regard 
to  their  contribution  to  finance  the  security-sector 
reform component.
On  the  issue  of  the  restoration  of  State  authority 
and the process of redeploying the Administration, the 
Government has undertaken, with the assistance of the 
international community, including the United Nations, 
actions  to  ensure  the  presence  of  public  authority 
throughout  the  territory  and  tot  ensureg  peace  and 
security. The defence and security forces must therefore 
continue to bolster our border control against the threats 
of cross-border crime, the proliferation of small arms 
and  light  weapons,  money-laundering,  trafficking  in 
drugs and narcotics, and terrorism, particularly by the 
Lord’s Resistance Army, and human trafficking.
The  Government  has  undertaken  emergency 
measures aimed at rebuilding the Central African armed 
forces,  which  will  help  to  enable  the  establishment 
of  an  inclusive  republican  army.  To  achieve  that,  the 
Central  African  Republic,  through  me,  calls  for  the 
total lifting of the arms embargo imposed on it. It must 
be  remembered  that  the  ban,  even  if  necessary  at  the 
time,  is  no  longer  justified  today  in  this  new  era  of 
national reconstruction.
Justice and human rights involve the rehabilitation 
of  the  institutions  of  the  judiciary  so  as  to  guarantee 
the  rights  of  citizens  and  strengthen  the  fight  against 
impunity. In that regard, it is appropriate to strengthen 
the  Special  Criminal  Court  for  the  Central  African 
Republic  so  as  to  bring  the  perpetrators  of  crimes  to 
justice before the competent courts and to deal with the 
issue of reparations for the harm suffered.
Concerning  economic  recovery,  the  Government 
has  implemented  reforms  aimed  at  improving  the 
business climate in order to attract private investment 
and  has  committed  itself  to  reestablishing  State 
infrastructure 
to  support  growth.  The  cyclical,  
repetitive crises in the Central African Republic have 
led to the precarious living conditions of our people and 
to widespread impoverishment. I welcome the fact that 
the international community has understood what is at 
stake here.
national 
My Government, for its part, is firmly committed 
to 
peacebuilding, 
the 
re-establishment  of  the  defence  and  security  forces 
and  an  economic  recovery  plan.  Those  are  our  goals; 
those are our priorities. I have every confidence that, 
together, Central Africans will pursue those goals with 
all their strength and all their energy.
reconciliation, 
The Central African Republic is once again among 
Member  States.  The  Central  African  Republic  has 
taken  its  place  as  a  free  and  democratic  State  among 
the community of nations. It is ready to contribute to 
building a world of peace, tolerance, freedom, justice 
and  democracy.  Despite  our  determination  to  take 
charge  of  our  destiny,  the  Central  African  Republic 
is still fragile, absolutely in need of the support of all 
our partners, both bilateral and multilateral. On behalf 
of  my  country,  I  again  call  for  the  support  of  fellow 
Member States.
The  United  Nations  remains  the  indispensable 
forum par excellence for addressing global issues and 
researching  appropriate  solutions.  As  a  Member,  the 
Central  African  Republic  can  assure  the  Assembly 
of  our  abiding  commitment  to  the  ideals  of  the 
Organization, founded on the values of equality, peace, 
security, justice and development, to which all peoples 
throughout the world aspire.
16-29667
11/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
I  welcome  the  relevance  of  the  theme  of  the 
seventy-first  session  of 
the  General  Assembly: 
“Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a  universal  push  to 
transform our world”, chosen a year after the adoption 
of the new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The 
choice  of  that  theme  is  justified  by  the  desire  to  see 
those Goals realized by 2030. For the time has come to 
reverse the trend of extreme poverty, which continues, 
unfortunately, in many parts of the world, particularly 
in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  The  time  has  come  to  reduce 
inequalities  between  rich  and  poor  and  to  create  an 
environment that provides a good place to live for the 
well-being of everyone.
It  is  recognized  that  the  majority  of  the  least 
developed  countries  and  post-conflict  countries, 
including the Central African Republic, did not attain 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  There 
are several reasons for that, chief among them political 
instability. In fact, in 2011 the Government developed 
a  framework  for  accelerating  the  effort  to  achieve 
the  MDGs  dealing  with  hunger  and  food  security, 
but  the  crisis  of  2012  ended  those  actions,  leaving 
them incomplete.
the 
society, 
the  private 
The  Government 
for 
involving 
implementation  process 
The  Central  African  Republic  has  officially 
the 
launched 
Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
all 
national  stakeholders  —  the  public  administration, 
international 
civil 
sector, 
partners,  development  partners  and 
international 
non-governmental organizations. That clearly indicates 
the  willingness  of  the  Government  resolutely  to  lead 
the process of achieving the SDGs and avoid the uneven 
results that characterized the process of the attainment 
of the MDGs, for the reasons I cited earlier.
lessons 
the 
experience  and  has  undertaken  to  implement  the 
SDGs  on  new  bases  involving  partnership  and  the 
participation  of  all  strata  of  our  society.  Thus  the 
Government has undertaken, within the framework of 
its national reconstruction policy, the preparation of a 
recovery and peacebuilding programme in the Central 
African Republic that includes humanitarian assistance, 
early recovery and development. There are three main 
planks: peace, reconciliation and security; the renewal 
of the social contract between the State and the people; 
and  economic  recovery  and  the  revitalization  of  the 
productive sectors.
learned 
from 
the 
this, 
intends 
To  achieve 
organizations, 
the  Government 
to 
develop  a  partnership  with  national  and  international 
non-governmental 
private 
sector,  development  partners  and  community-based 
organizations so as to create the synergies necessary to 
emerge from the crisis. To that end, the planned study on 
the vision of the Central African Republic through 2040 
will  be  carried  out  within  the  framework  of  the  2063 
Agenda for Africa and will include concrete objectives.
technical  and  financial 
partners,  we  will  set  up  an  appropriate  institutional 
framework  for  the  follow-up  and  monitoring  of  the 
work to achieve the SDGs. Under its auspices we will 
define our priorities in the context of the recovery and 
peacebuilding  programme,  the  recommendations  of 
the  Common  African  Position  and  the  conclusions  of 
the consultative regional meeting on the SDGs, held in 
October 2013.
the  support  of 
With 
The issue of migrants and refugees, which affects 
the  entire  world,  has  in  recent  years  worsened  and  is 
now  a  major  concern  of  the  international  community. 
It is a very pressing problem that requires the attention 
of every country, regardless of their involvement in the 
management of migratory flows.
The  high-level  meeting  that  was  just  held  was  an 
opportunity to highlight the pressing global challenges 
caused by these mass movements of peoples, in order to 
devise  well-thought-out  solutions  within  a  framework 
of  international  responsibility-sharing.  I  welcome  the 
commitment of Member States to seek a more humane 
solution  to  the  issue.  At  the  Valletta  Summit  on 
Migration and the first Global Humanitarian Summit, 
held in Istanbul, world leaders shared their views on the 
root causes of migration and displaced persons.
In 
the  Central  African  Republic,  sustainable 
solutions  to  ensure  the  return  of  our  compatriots 
who  have  been  displaced  within  our  country  to  their 
areas of origin, as well as to the issue of refugees, are 
being  studied  in  order  to  create  a  national  platform 
for  disaster  risk  management  and  the  prevention  and 
management of poor socioeconomic conditions such as 
low wages, unemployment, underemployment in rural 
areas,  poverty  and  lack  of  resources,  which  are  very 
often the cause of these movements.
On climate change and sustainable development, it 
is urgent that the world adopt sound policies that can 
generate growth and take into account the problem of 
climate  change.  Such  growth  must  be  able  to  reduce 
12/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
poverty.  Protection  of  the  environment,  effective 
management  of  resources,  and  economic  growth 
integrated  into  green  growth  provide  a  valuable 
opportunity  for  African  countries.  It  is  not  fair  that 
Africa should pay a higher price when it is but a victim. 
That  is  why  I  urge  the  international  community  to 
focus  in  particular  on  the  adoption  of  an  appropriate 
mechanism to support Africa. The commitments made 
at the Paris climate summit must be respected so as to 
bring about true sustainable development.
Before  I  conclude,  let  me  say  that  we  trust 
that  Member  States  all  will  decide  to  provide  our 
Organization  with  the  means  to  attain  the  2030 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  The  Central  African 
Republic will continue to make its modest contribution 
to our Organization and in our common quest for peace, 
security and development for all.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Central African Republic for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr. Faustin Archange Touadéra, President of the 
Central  African  Republic,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Azali Assoumani, President of the 
Union of the Comoros
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Union of the Comoros.
Mr.  Azali  Assoumani,  President  of  the  Union 
of  the  Comoros,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Azali 
Assoumani, President of the Union of the Comoros, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Assoumani (spoke in French): I welcome 
this opportunity to address the General Assembly for 
the  first  time  since  my  election  as  President  of  the 
Union of the Comoros. I am very grateful to the people 
of the Comoros, who have made it possible for me to 
speak here on their behalf.
I would like, from this lofty rostrum, to congratulate 
the people of the Comoros, who have been able to turn 
the  page  in  terms  of  achieving  political  stability  and 
to  put  aside  useless  discord  to  work  together  for  the 
benefit of future generations.
I  am  indeed  the  fourth  President  in  20  years  to 
have been elected in a free, transparent and democratic 
election  with  internationally  recognized  results.  My 
country has experienced its third peaceful handover of 
power, in which the opposition replaced the legitimate 
incumbent following peaceful elections.
I thank the international community and all of our 
partners, and the United Nations system in particular, 
for having always stood by our side. I hope that after 
the election their assistance will help us to consolidate 
political  stability  and  to  preserve  democracy  and  the 
rule  of  law,  so  as  to  bring  about  the  economic  and 
social  development  of  the  country  and  the  well-being 
of our people.
Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  the 
President of the General Assembly, Mr. Peter Thomson, 
on his election to head this seventy-first session. I am 
convinced that his experience and his proven knowledge 
of international issues, added to his personal brilliance, 
will lead the Assembly to great success at this session. I 
cannot fail to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Mogens 
Lykketoft,  for  having  brilliantly  led  the  General 
Assembly at its seventieth session. 
Let  me  also  hail  the  efforts  of  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon. He has shown great talent throughout his 
term. As he nears the time to relinquish his duties, I wish 
to  join  in  the  unanimous  tributes  to  his  commitment 
to promoting peace, development and fighting climate 
change.  The  people  and  the  Government  of  the 
Comoros  are  deeply  grateful  for  the  interest  he  has 
always shown in the development of the Union of the 
Comoros and, in particular, for the special attention that 
he paid to our most recent electoral process, ensuring 
its  smooth  running  and  its  final  results,  which  were 
unanimously accepted.
Let  me  lastly  applaud  all  those  who  have  spoken 
from  this  rostrum  for  their  pertinent  remarks,  in 
particular  His  Excellency  President  Barack  Obama, 
who  is  also  approaching  the  end  of  his  term.  He 
perfectly represents the United States of America – the 
tolerant America, the generous America, respectful of 
the universal values of freedom and the rule of law, and 
the America that the world wants.
16-29667
13/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
The theme of the current session is “The Sustainable 
Development Goals: a universal push to transform our 
world”.  It  fits  in  perfectly  with  the  decision  taken  by 
international  leaders  15  years  ago  to  establish  a  set 
of  world  objectives:  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  The  theme  also  encourages  us  to  build  on  the 
considerable  progress  made  in  the  years  that  have 
followed:  a  steady  decline  in  poverty  throughout  the 
world,  an  increasing  number  of  children  in  school, 
spectacular  gains  in  lowering  child  mortality,  greater 
access  to  drinking  water,  and  progress  in  the  fight 
against  malaria,  AIDS  and  tuberculosis,  which  has 
helped to save millions of lives.
Indeed,  considerable  efforts  have  been  made  to 
help  our  world  achieve  greater  prosperity,  equality, 
freedom and respect for human dignity, and to become 
a  place  where  research  and  peacekeeping  tirelessly 
persevere.  Furthermore,  the  ambitious  new  long-term 
programme  that  we  adopted  last  year  to  improve  the 
lives  of  our  population  and  to  protect  the  planet  for 
future generations enables us to optimistically perceive 
a future when we can reduce poverty, improve health 
and  education,  build  a  more  sustainable  habitat,  fight 
climate change and protect our oceans and forests.
However, the issue of refugees and migrants, which 
has been the focus of our debate since the start of the 
current session, requires urgent action. We are all well 
aware that those migrant men and women do not put their 
lives at risk, perilously travelling over land and sea, for 
pleasure or for tourism; instead, they are fleeing from 
war,  poverty  and  misery.  The  theme  of  this  session, 
“The Sustainable Development Goals: a universal push 
to transform our world”, comes at just the right time, 
as it allows us to envisage sustainable development and 
even to stabilize populations at home, so that they can 
move only out of choice and in perfect harmony.
And so it is up to our Organization, and therefore each 
one of us, to take immediate action to stop the violence 
that is a result of all kinds of extremism and fanaticism, 
leading to heinous and barbaric acts around the world, 
particularly in Africa, which is currently experiencing 
terrorism that knows no borders. Terrorists are neither 
Muslim nor Jewish, neither Catholic nor animist. They 
do not belong to any religion or any civilization — they 
are  merely  barbarians.  That  is  why  my  country,  the 
Union of the Comoros, is willing to support all actions 
aimed at fighting the scourge of terrorism.
It  is  also  urgent  that  our  Organization,  that  is  to 
say every Member State, finally agree on a definitive, 
fair and sustainable solution to the Israel-Arab conflict, 
based on a two-State solution and in accordance with the 
relevant United Nations resolutions. Nothing can justify 
our silent response to the terror of that conflict with its 
toll of victims, which is fuelled both by the extremism 
that comes from all sides and by our culpable inertia. 
Nothing can justify the arrogance of those who, from 
this very rostrum, defy the world by taunting this world 
body, an Organization that provides a framework for all 
to recognize the sovereignty of States, to participate in 
international  affairs  and  to  seek  peaceful  solutions  to 
the problems afflicting us. 
For  my  part,  I  wish  to  convey  the  trust  of  my 
people  in  the  United  Nations,  an  Organization  that 
has  acknowledged  our  sovereignty  and  independence, 
and that, 41 years later, makes it possible for us to be 
here. I believe that finding a solution to the issue of the 
sovereignty of the Palestinian people and resolving that 
70-year-old  conflict  will  spur  the  resolution  of  other 
conflicts in the Near and Middle East.
Allow me, at this stage in my address, to respectfully 
draw  the  Assembly’s  attention  to  the  need  to  draw  a 
distinction between migrants and internally displaced 
persons.  My  country,  the  Union  of  Comoros,  had  its 
sovereignty recognized by the United Nations in 1975. 
It is made up of four islands, and, like other countries, 
we  have  observed 
the  subsequent,  unavoidable 
movement of our population within islands and between 
islands,  including  the  island  of  Mayotte  —  which  is, 
unfortunately, still under French administration. Those 
trips are made to visit family, celebrate marriages, go 
to  the  burial  of  a  close  relative  and  for  various  other 
reasons.  And  yet  they  descend  into  chaos  on  a  daily 
basis — every year and every month, those trips lead to 
deaths of hundreds of our fellow citizens in the channel 
between the three islands and the island of Mayotte, to 
the indifference of the international community.
The Assembly is fully aware of the issue concerning 
the island of Mayotte and has devoted no fewer than 15 
resolutions to the issue since 1977. Unfortunately, it has 
yet to be resolved. We hope that, with the Assembly’s 
multifaceted  support,  a  viable  solution  will  be  found 
to accommodate both the Comoros and France — two 
countries that, in spite of that dispute, have remained 
partners  and  have  established  friendly  relations  over 
the  years.  I  am  convinced  that  the  dialogue  that  I 
initiated  with  President  Chirac  in  2005,  and  which 
14/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
has been pursued by successive French and Comorian 
Governments, will help to solve our unpleasant dispute. 
We  must  engage  in  frank  and  intelligent  dialogue, 
respecting the interests of both parties and, above all, 
international law, in order to make it possible for future 
generations of French, Comorian and Franco-Comorian 
people to live in peace and harmony and to be protected 
from  the  radicalization  and  extremism  that  have 
weakened regions all over the world.
Today, the United Nations is the only place where the 
world’s population can come together and look towards 
a common future of shared peace and prosperity — for 
which we have high expectation from this Organization, 
which regulates the international system. However, our 
Organization is increasingly perceived as inefficient in 
terms of defending the rights of the most deprived in 
relation to the most powerful. The Union of the Comoros 
is also in favour of broad reform of the United Nations, 
echoing  the  ideas  of  a  large  number  of  countries,  in 
particular  with  regard  to  the  need  to  grant  Africa  a 
permanent seat on the Security Council. We believe that 
respect for international law, the sovereignty of States 
and the integrity of their territories will contribute to 
greater peace and prosperity throughout the world.
There are other challenges to be overcome before we 
can achieve sustainable development. We must eradicate 
poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all 
within  the  framework  of  the  new  Agenda  within  the 
next 15 years. As a small island developing State, the 
Union of the Comoros seeks to turn the private sector 
and civil society, together with the Administration, into 
drivers of the struggle to transform economic growth, 
in  particular  in  Africa,  so  as  to  provide  decent  job 
prospects for young people, improve services, develop 
agriculture  and  reduce  inequalities  deriving  from 
income, gender and living environments. All that is so 
we can deal successfully with the emerging problem of 
climate change.
took 
(Bangladesh),  Vice-President, 
Mr.  Ali 
the Chair.
I want to end on an optimistic note. Getting back 
to  the  theme  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
I  want  to  pay  tribute  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  François 
Hollande,  President  of  the  French  Republic,  and 
congratulate  him  on  the  success  of  the  twenty-first 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change. 
His commitment and capacity for mobilization enabled 
the eventual adoption of the United Nations Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change.  My  country  signed 
the agreement and will submit it for ratification by the 
Parliament during its session in October.
On  this  occasion,  I  wish  every  success  to  His 
Majesty King Mohammed VI, whose beautiful country, 
Morocco, will host, in Marrakesh in 2017, the twenty-
second session of the Conference of the Parties . With the 
permission of my friend, His Majesty King Mohammed 
VI,  I  invite  the  entire  international  community  to  go 
on  that  occasion  to  Morocco,  which  fully  deserves  to 
host the twenty-second Conference of the Parties. The 
success of the Conference will contribute to reducing 
insecurity,  which  is  a  destabilizing  factor  in  many 
regions  in  the  world,  particularly  in  Africa,  where 
people have been the most likely to resort to migration, 
which  is  a  global  concern  that  we  addressed  on  the 
opening days of our session. Indeed, the success of the 
Conference  will  be  reflected  in  improvements  in  our 
daily  life  and  will  provide  a  tangible  contribution  to 
people’s well-being and prosperity.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Union of 
the Comoros for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Azali  Assoumani,  President  of  the  Union  of 
the  Comoros,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour 
Hadi Mansour, President of the Republic of Yemen
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Yemen.
Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdrabuh  Mansour  Hadi 
Mansour,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Mansour  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, allow me to express our thanks and appreciation 
to the Secretary-General for all the sincere efforts he 
has made and continues to make to ensure the success 
of  the  peace  process  in  Yemen  and  to  put  an  end  to 
the  suffocating  crises  that  plague  Yemen.  We  thank 
his Special Envoy for Yemen, Mr. Ismail Ould Cheikh 
16-29667
15/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
Ahmed,  for  all  of  his  good  efforts,  which  we  praises 
and support. I wish to congratulate Mr. Peter Thomson 
on  his  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  We  wish  him 
every success in fulfilling his noble mission.
Last  year  from  this  rostrum  I  made  a  promise 
to  restore  Yemen’s  legitimacy  (see  A/70/PV.17).  I 
came  to  New  York  from  Aden,  the  interim  capital 
of  Yemen,  months  after  the  coup  d’état  against  State 
institutions  —  which  was  led  by  the  militias  of  the 
Houthis  and  former  President  Saleh  --  had  plunged 
Yemen into a meaningless war, tearing apart its social 
fabric  and  decimating  its  economic  and  financial 
capabilities and infrastructure. 
Today  I  address  the  Assembly  while  the  State 
leadership  at  home  is  running  the  State  from  inside, 
despite all the difficulties. The Vice-President and the 
Government in its entirety in the liberated governates 
have  aborted  this  destructive  scheme  led  by  Iran 
through mercenaries in Yemen. Today the coup forces 
are motivated by a vendetta against the people, pushing 
women and children to the fronts of death without any 
conscience or humanity. 
We did not fire the first shot in Yemen’s war. We 
were  in  Sana’a  before  the  coup.  We  have  repeatedly 
called  for  an  end  to  the  wars,  tragedies  and  conflicts 
that have been destroying Yemen over the past 50 years 
as a result of a corrupt Government, the selfish control 
of national wealth and power, heavy centralization and 
the neglect of most of the regions of the country.
All of those factors led to an increase in tensions 
and the eruption of the popular revolution against the 
former regime in February 2011 in order to bring about 
change.  I  called  on  everyone  to  build  a  cherished, 
democratic,  civilian  federal  State  in  which  human 
rights, the specifities of all the regions of Yemen, the 
dignity of women, the rights of children and the rights 
of all marginalized social groups are respected.
The  Assembly  may  recall  that  I  stood  here  four 
years  ago  (see  A/67/PV.9)  and  spoke  about  the  steps 
that we had taken and that we would take on the path 
towards  a  political  transition  of  State  power  in  the 
context of the Gulf Cooperation Council’s initiative and 
on  the  basis  of  United  Nations  resolutions.  I  told  the 
Assembly then that Iran was blocking all the measures 
that  we  were  taking  through  a  variety  of  actions  and 
interventions. Today, we are suffering the consequences 
of its meaningless practices via the Houthi and former 
President  Saleh’s  coup  militias,  whose  actions  have 
turned everything upside down. 
We presented to the world a remarkable and unique 
experience, one unprecedented in the history of Yemen 
and  the  region,  through  the  comprehensive  national 
dialogue conference in which all parties participated.. 
It addressed the problems of Yemen in depth and drew 
up a road map for its future, which led to the drafting 
of  a  new  federal  civilian  Constitution.  We  were  on 
the cusp of building a new Yemen and completing the 
transitional  phase  when  those  militias  carried  out  a 
coup against the State, its legitimacy and the national 
consensus. 
The  battles  raging  today  are  none  of  our  doing. 
They were imposed on us by the coup by the Houthi/
Saleh militias’ coalition, which turned against the Gulf 
Cooperation  Council  Initiative  and  Implementation 
Mechanism  and  the  outcome  of  the  dialogue.  They 
rejected the national consensus and took over the capital 
and certain governorates. At a time when everyone else 
was  embracing  peace  and  national  partnership,  they 
were  shooting  everyone,  besieging  cities  and  killing 
innocent  people  in  order  to  safeguard  their  interests 
for power and wealth and seizing the capacities of the 
country and plundering its resources.
Let me stress that we are not advocating revenge. 
We do not seek to eliminate anyone from the Yemeni 
landscape. Rather, we extend our hands to all to build 
a  new  Yemen.  Despite  the  extensive  damage  caused 
by the coup scheme on the political, social, economic 
and cultural fronts, we continue to see the rebels as a 
Yemeni  group  that  must  return  to  reason.  We  do  not 
take away their right to a future. 
We are still yearning for a life in dignity and safety 
for all Yemenis. Our project is one of life, construction, 
hope and stability for the new Federation of Yemen. It 
is a project for all Yeminis, who painstakingly drafted 
its parameters in the national dialogue and its outcome. 
It  calls  for  a  federal  State  founded  on  justice  and  the 
equitable distribution of power and wealth. More than 
once we have urged them to demonstrate their loyalty 
to  their  homeland,  and  we  have  called  on  them  to 
dissociate themselves from the State that did not bring 
anything to Yemen except destruction and fuel for wars.
The  peace  we  aspire  to  cannot  accept  control  by 
militias  and  sectarian  gangs  of  the  State’s  capacities, 
over  medium  and  heavy  weapons  and  missles  that 
target the security and stability of Yemen, the Arabian 
16/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
Peninsula  and  the  Gulf  region.  Our  endeavours  for 
peace  can  never  overshadow  the  great  sacrifices 
made  by  our  people  and  their  noble  objectives.  Any 
appropriate solutions should aim to end the coup and all 
its consequences, first and foremost by making sure the 
armed militias withdraw, surrender their weapons and 
give up the institutions they are controlling. Afterward, 
we should  complete the political process by endorsing 
the new draft Constitution and hold general elections.
Therefore,  we  welcomed  and  cooperated  with  all 
sincere efforts that the United Nations made, as well as 
with  all  other  ideas  contributed  to  bring  about  peace. 
But they were rejected by the party involved in the coup, 
which refused to entertain them in a positive spirit.
We want to tell the world in very clear terms that 
extremism  and  sectarian  terrorism  sponsored  by  Iran 
in  the  region  have  bred  and  will  continue  to  breed 
counter-extremism  that  feeds  on  terrorism.  Brutality 
and terrorism, as demonstrated by those involved in the 
coup against the Yemeni people, feed and nourish the 
seeds of terrorism. We are all suffering from terrorism. 
This is why, on behalf of all Yemenis, I declare our full 
commitment  to  relentlessly  combating  terrorism.  But 
let me stress that we cannot defeat terrorism in Yemen 
without tackling its root causes, the most important of 
which is the extremism and vindictive acts of terrorism 
by the Houthi/Saleh militas.
The  political  vacuum  caused  by  the  war,  and  the 
economic  depression  triggered  by  the  black-market 
policies that impoverished the State and plundered its 
resources,  were  executed  by  the  coup  militias  from 
the very beginning. They all led to a situation of stark 
poverty  that  is  being  exploited  by  terrorist  groups  to 
enlist  people,  recruit  children,  stockpile  weapons  and 
take control of cities. Unless we take effective measures 
to  address  those  root  causes,  Yemen  and  the  entire 
region will continue to suffer.
For the Yemenis, the criminal acts perpetrated by 
the militias, including the systematic killing of civilians, 
children and the elderly, especially in Taiz Governorate, 
the abductions and forced disappearances, the besieged 
cities,  and  the  suppression  of  public  freedoms  of  the 
Yemeni people are acts of terrorism on a par with those 
perpetrated by the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, 
Da’esh,  Al-Qaida  and  other  terrorist  groups.  The 
terrorism inflicted on the Yemeni people at the hands 
of the coup militias is similar to what they suffered at 
the hands of Da’esh and Al-Qaida.  The Yemeni people 
are  the  only  people  who  are  affected  by  the  Yemini 
version of Da’esh, Al-Qaida and Hezbollah. The world 
should  understand  the  Yemeni  people’s  priorities  to 
attain freedom and fighti all terrorist groups, with their 
different forms and categories. The fait accompli policy 
when dealing with extremists constitutes a dangerous 
international  precedent  because  it  confers  legitimacy 
on the violent and terrorist rebel groups that are forcibly 
imposing their will on the people.
The  militias  involved  in  the  coup  diverted  the 
mandate of the Central Bank of Yemen from its main 
mission at a time when the economy of Yemen was on 
the brink of collapse, turning it into a tool of war against 
the Yemeni people. The militias used the resources of 
the  Central  Bank  to  fund  the  war,  undermining  their 
independence,  systematically  plundering  their  assets 
and  devaluing  the  local  currency  with  the  aim  of 
exhausting our cash reserves. Those are irresponsible 
economic  policies.  We  therefore  decided  to  move  the 
Central Bank to the interim economic capital, Aden, to 
save what could still be saved and to prevent the total 
depletion of the reserves.
No  one  will  benefit  from  this  situation  except 
terrorists,  violent  groups  and  the  black-market  trade 
networks.  We  wish  to  stress  to  the  whole  world  that 
we  took  that  step  only  after  exercising  considerable 
patience. Finally, our patience ran out after we assessed 
the dangers inherent in allowing the Bank to continue 
to be controlled by irresponsible militias that work for 
the profit of their leaders and are bent on impoverishing 
the  people  and  the  State  institutions.  The  motivating 
idea was to end the war by restricting the flow of funds 
to  those  militias.  In  that  connection,  we  call  on  the 
free world and its financial institutions to support and 
stand by us and to respond to these measures to save 
the Yemeni economy and to prevent the militias from 
controlling the future of Yemen. 
The  situation  in  the  wake  of  the  destructive  war 
imposed on our people is a result of the plundering of 
the  State’s  resources,  the  manipulation  of  the  Central 
Bank’s assets, the erosion of foreign currency reserves, 
the  non-use  of  the  local  currency  and  the  promotion 
of  trade  war,  black-market  practices  and  smuggling 
by  the  militias.  These  factors  augur  dangerous  times 
for Yemen. We will not be able to pay the salaries of 
civil servants, which will exacerbate the humanitarian 
catastrophe at hand. The situation requires action and 
assistance  by  the  international  community  to  support 
the  Government  of  Yemen  in  its  efforts  to  generate 
16-29667
17/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
economic  recovery  and  reconstruction.  Let  me  stress 
that the Central Bank of Yemen remains fully committed 
to fulfilling its national and international obligations.
government based on the “rule by the Islamic jurist”. 
We reaffirm to our people that victory has never been 
closer.
Notwithstanding the declarations of support every 
year, the strategic humanitarian plan for Yemen devised 
by the United Nations covers only a small portion of the 
growing  essential  needs  that  people  are  experiencing 
in  the  catastrophically  difficult  situation  in  Yemen. 
I take this opportunity to renew my call on all donor 
countries  to  fulfil  their  pledges  and  to  provide  more 
assistance in order to alleviate the suffering of Yemen. 
The  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Yemen  wants  to 
ensure  that  urgent  humanitarian  aid  is  delivered  to 
all  who  are  in  need  of  it  in  all  governates  of  Yemen, 
without exception. In that regard, I commend the great 
effort mounted by the King Salman Humanitarian Aid 
and  Relief  Centre  and  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council 
relief and humanitarian organizations.
The Yemen that we aspire to build — the Yemen that 
will emerge from the ruins of the unjust war imposed 
on  it  by  the  Houthi/Saleh  militias  —  will  be  better 
integrated  into  its  immediate  regional  surroundings. 
It  will  be  cognizant  of  its  strategic  and  geopolitical 
position in the Arabian peninsula and the Gulf. 
On this occasion I reiterate our thanks and gratitude 
to my brother King Salman bin Abdulaziz, Custodian 
of the Two Holy Mosques, and to the Government and 
people of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, as well as to 
the President and the Government of the United Arab 
Emirates  and  to  all  our  kin  in  the  Gulf  Cooperation 
Council  and  the  Arab  Coalition  for  the  restoration  of 
legitimacy in Yemen. 
Three  days  from  now,  our  great  Yemeni  people 
will celebrate the anniversary of the landmark Yemeni 
revolution of 26 September 1962, which declared Yemen 
a democratic republic. We recall with pride the glorious 
achievements of Yemen and the struggle of our Yemeni 
heroes.  Allow  me,  from  this  rostrum,  to  stress  to  our 
people that the path of sacrifices charted by Yemenis in 
their  struggle  against  backwardness  and  the  Imamate 
system  of  government  is  being  complemented  today 
by  the  sacrifices  of  new  heroes,  who  are  defending 
the  revolution  and  the  Republic.  We  stand  behind  the 
overwhelming  majority  of  Yemenis  until  victory  and 
until we defeat the legions of the Imamate system and 
its heirs -- the former regime and its new version led by 
the treacherous Houthi/Saleh alliance — and halt their 
endeavours  to  establish  a  racist,  theocratic  system  of 
Allow me  to address our people from this rostrum as 
we celebrate the glorious anniversary of the revolution. 
To  our  Yemeni  people  who  have  suffered  injustice, 
bereavement,  displacement,  fleeing,  disappearance, 
killings and hunger, our dear and generous people, I say 
with a great deal of confidence that their sacrifices will 
not be in vain, that their aspirations will be fulfilled. 
We  are  bound  to  be  victorious,  and,  God  willing,  we 
will carry out our just project. We will extract Yemen 
from the claws of Iran. We will raise the Yemeni flag 
over our precious national soil, every square foot of it, 
and we will lay the foundation for a just federal State. 
All  along,  we  have  been  and  we  will  continue  to  be 
pioneers  of  peace  and  security,  advocates  of  love  and 
harmony, advocates of dialogue and consultation. 
truly  pains  me; 
it 
The  current  situation 
is 
heartbreaking  for  any  Yemeni  to  see  blood  shed 
anywhere. I am responsible for all of Yemeni territory 
and people, from one end of the country to the other. 
Nothing  is  in  my  heart  except  the  concerns  of  my 
people, my homeland and my desire to see my country 
enjoy  prosperity  and  peace.  We  will  continue  to  deal 
positively  and  patiently  with  all.  We  will  make  all 
necessary sacrifices in order to restore social peace and 
recover  our  national  cohesion  in  accordance  with  our 
constitutional  and  moral  responsibility  vis-a-vis  the 
suffering of our people in all parts of the country. 
I  feel  ashamed  that  the  Yemeni  people  have  had 
to endure the persistent failures of successive Yemeni 
Governments over the past 50 years. In both the north 
and south of Yemen, they were unable to meet the five 
basic  necessities  of  our  people:  water,  health  care, 
education, electricity and road networks. But there is no 
point in crying over a bygone era and its Governments. 
Have  our  people  not  suffered  enough  death  and 
destruction? Have the authors of the coup d’état — the 
Houthi/Saleh  militias  —  not  heard  the  humanitarian 
calls  from  this  international  forum  to  cooperate  with 
the  Secretary-General’s  Special  Envoy 
to  Yemen 
in  order  to  implement  what  we  have  agreed  upon?  I 
refer to the established terms of reference of the Gulf 
Cooperation Council Initiative and its Implementation 
Mechanism,  the  outcomes  of  the  national  dialogue, 
the relevant Security Council resolutions, particularly 
resolution  2216  (2015),  and  the  outcome  of  the  peace 
talks in Kuwait.
18/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
From  this  rostrum,  I  wish  to  express  our  thanks 
and  gratitude  to  His  Royal  Highness  Sheikh  Sabah 
al-Ahmad al-Jaber al-Sabah, and our brother people of 
Kuwait. 
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  draw  attention  to  the 
foremost issue of a just solution regarding the question 
of Palestine and its capital -- the Holy City of Jerusalem. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic of 
Yemen for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Jocelerme Privert, Acting President 
of the Republic of Haiti
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Acting President of the Republic 
of Haiti.
Mr.  Jocelerme  Privert,  Acting  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Haiti,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Jocelerme Privert, Acting 
President of the Republic of Haiti, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
Acting President Privert (spoke in French): I have 
real pleasure in extending, on behalf of the delegation 
of  the  Republic  of  Haiti  and  in  my  own  name,  warm 
congratulations  to  Ambassador  Peter  Thomson  on 
his election as President of our Assembly. His proven 
experience in international issues and his outstanding 
personal  qualities  bode  well  for  the  success  of  the 
seventy-first session.
I would also like to give a special greeting to the 
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon, for his outstanding performance at the head 
of  our  Organization,  particularly  his  commitment  to 
peace and the promotion of development in the world. 
Haiti’s  voice  joins  in  the  unanimous  praise  which 
crowns his second mandate in that office.
Seventy-one  years  ago,  the  fifty  original  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  took  the  solemn  and 
decisive commitment to build a new world order based 
on fundamental human rights. Before a world emerging 
from the tragedies of a terrible war, they championed 
the equality of men’s and women’s rights, the inviolable 
principle of parity of the subjects of international law 
and  the  right  of  peoples  to  self-determination.  In  a 
praiseworthy  endeavour  to  heal  the  wounds  of  recent 
conflicts,  they  advocated  better  living  conditions  for 
the  people  of  the  world  under  the  aegis  of  freedom 
and democracy.
 From this rostrum, Haiti declares the raison d’être 
of  our  Organization  to  be  more  relevant  in  today’s 
world  than  ever  before.  In  the  face  of  a  succession 
of  threats  posed  by  the  spectre  of  ecological  peril, 
terrorist  brutality  and  the  persistence  of  various 
regional  conflicts,  we  must  reassert  our  faith  in  the 
purposes of our Organization. The values it embodies 
and the precepts it defends and promotes in the analysis 
and  management  of  major  contemporary  issues  and 
challenges  are  more  pertinent  than  ever.  Today  it  is 
more essential than ever that the United Nations fully 
assume its role in order to provide collective responses 
to all manner of crises threatening peace in the world.
The  encroachments  of  terrorism  and  the  international 
problems  of  an  economic,  social  and  humanitarian 
nature  are  among  the  issues  that  the  United  Nations 
must  address,  in  keeping  with  its  original  mission  of 
human understanding and solidarity. 
The Republic of Haiti is proud to have participated 
in  the  founding  of  the  Organization.  We  strongly 
support  the  measures  it  undertakes  to  strengthen  and 
broaden the scope of its actions. We also welcome the 
initiatives for necessary reform, particularly within the 
Security Council.
Haiti  stands  alongside  and  encourages  the  United 
Nations  in  its  intentions  to  strengthen  its  capabilities 
in  the  conduct  of  peacekeeping  operations,  the  fight 
against pandemics and health crises and the promotion 
of democracy and human rights, without overlooking or 
neglecting economic, social and cultural rights.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change perfectly 
illustrates  the  concept  of  a  collective  destiny  for  all 
peoples that lies at the heart of this Organization. This 
vision  has  inspired  urgent  and  united  international 
action  in  the  face  of  an  issue  that  threatens  the  very 
survival  of  our  planet.  The  Agreement  represents 
unquestionable  success,  and  we  sincerely  hope  that 
all  established  commitments  and  obligations  are 
followed through.
16-29667
19/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
The  progress  made  over  the  past  seven  decades, 
whether  in  terms  of  human  rights,  peacekeeping  or 
international  development  cooperation,  is  undeniable. 
This is in large part thanks to the powerful and generous 
vision that inspired the founders of our Organization, 
a  vision  that  remains  as  potent  as  ever.  While 
congratulations are in order for recent advances, some 
of which are truly remarkable, I would particularly like 
to  acknowledge  the  peace  agreement  recently  signed 
in  Havana  by  the  Government  of  our  sister  Republic 
of Colombia with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of 
Colombia.  We  are  forced  to  admit,  however,  that  the 
obstacles hindering peace and sustainable development 
in  the  world  remain  numerous.  Nevertheless,  we 
welcome the recent rapprochement of the United States 
of America with Cuba, which is likely to further peace 
in our region.
The Republic of Haiti encourages the international 
community  to  pay  further  attention  to  the  aspirations 
of  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  to  play  a  more 
active  role  in  certain  decisions  and  initiatives  that 
could contribute to stability and reconciliation among 
peoples and nations.
Our delegation is particularly sensitive to two of the 
issues being addressed at the current session. I refer to 
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development and to the issue of refugees, migrants and 
the forced displacement of people. 
The  next  15  years  will  provide  a  detailed 
demonstration of the actions and efforts of the peoples 
of  the  planet,  resolutely  engaged  in  a  noble  struggle 
to  eradicate  poverty  and  hunger  in  the  world.  The  17 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) will be both our 
compass  and  our  milestones  throughout  humankind’s 
journey 
free  of  unacceptable 
deprivation, shortcomings and failures.
towards  a  world 
The  Republic  of  Haiti  chooses  to  be  among  the 
States on the front line as we head towards sustainable 
development.  Having  acknowledged  what  is  at  stake, 
my  Government  has  courageously  decided  to  lay  the 
foundations for our dedicated participation in the global 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  to  put  our  country  firmly  on  track 
towards inclusive and sustainable development. 
Through 
the  purposeful  appropriation  of 
the 
SDGs  and  their  integration  into  Haiti’s  development 
policies  and  strategies,  we  are  enabling  the  country 
to  take  concrete  action  that  will  help  to  improve  the 
living  conditions  of  every  Haitian.  In  that  context,  I 
fully support the adoption in Hangzhou by the Group 
of 20 of an action plan aimed at facilitating the launch 
of a sustainable development programme for 2030 and 
supporting the industrialization efforts of African and 
least developed countries. We have great hopes for the 
coming years.
We  also  pay  particular  attention  to  the  Goals’ 
approach  to  the  issue  of  migration.  Migration  flows 
have always been at the core of the dynamics among the 
world’s  peoples.  However,  we  are  all  very  concerned 
about  recent  large  increases  in  the  frequency  and 
numbers  of  people  fleeing  conflict  zones,  including 
women  and  children,  and  the  human  tragedies  that 
befall those sometimes desperate attempts. Needless to 
say, the Republic of Haiti can particularly relate to the 
issue, and we welcomed the high-level meeting on the 
subject held at the beginning of this session. We hope 
that concrete decisions, equal to the magnitude of the 
tragedies and risks faced by displaced populations, can 
be taken to protect them. We also urge that substantial 
support be provided to help host countries. We believe 
it  is  vital  to  take  every  possible  step  to  combat  the 
traffickers  who  abuse  the  good  faith  of  those  fleeing 
poverty and misery.
The Haitian delegation is well aware of the growing 
number of our compatriots who are leaving the country 
in search of a better life elsewhere. We understand and 
have taken on board the legitimate concerns that have 
been  expressed  by  representatives  of  some  countries 
of destination or transit, some of them from this very 
podium. This human tragedy calls for specific decisions 
and  measures  that  can  offer  the  Haitian  people  new 
opportunities and better living conditions. To that end, 
we need peace, political stability, development-oriented 
infrastructure, entities that will help to strengthen the 
rule  of  law  and  a  better  understanding  of  the  major 
socioeconomic  challenges  that  we  face.  We  have 
launched  a  dialogue  with  various  host  countries  with 
the aim of finding shared solutions.
At this point, I would like to briefly paint a picture 
of the current situation in Haiti. In about two weeks, the 
Haitian  people  will  go  to  the  polls.  The  mandate  that 
the National Assembly conferred on me at my election 
was  unequivocal:  restore  Haitians’  confidence  in  the 
electoral  process,  reinstate  constitutional  order  by 
completing the electoral cycle begun in 2015 and hold 
fair,  credible,  transparent  and  democratic  presidential 
and  legislative  elections.  That  is  the  task  I  have  been 
20/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
working on unceasingly for the past seven months. The 
inauguration  of  the  new  President  of  the  Republic  on 
7 February 2017 will be the culmination of the process 
of  renewing  and  strengthening  Haiti’s  republican 
institutions.  Make  no  mistake  —  without  fair  and 
credible  elections,  any  hope  of  a  peaceful  political 
transition  is  a  vain  illusion.  A  smooth  transition 
remains  the  prerequisite  and  foundation  for  political 
stability,  consolidation  of  the  rule  of  law,  economic 
modernization and development.
It is crucial to ensure that the forthcoming elections 
are credible if we are to effectively break the cycle of 
instability and the political uncertainty that has dogged 
my country for too long. In upholding my commitment 
to the Haitian people, I have spared no effort to help to 
create the conditions and atmosphere that are essential 
to  the  proper  conduct  of  the  elections,  and  impartial 
observers have unanimously noted the progress we have 
made  on  restoring  our  institutions  and  constitutional 
order.  Parliament  is  now  up  and  running  and  will  be 
fully functional after the elections. The elected mayors 
have  gradually  taken  up  their  functions,  and  that 
process has gone sooothly..
The  Government  is  deeply  respectful  of  the 
independence  and  prerogatives  of  the  Provisional 
Electoral  Council  in  organizing  the  elections.  In 
response to the people’s expectations and following up 
on the recommendations of our Independent Electoral 
Evaluation  and  Verification  Commission,  the  Council 
has  made  appropriate  fixes  to  remedy  the  manifest 
deficiencies in the electoral machinery. These have been 
welcomed  by  every  sector,  including  the  candidates 
themselves and the national and international observers.
Voter  confidence  in  the  integrity  of  the  electoral 
process is a major factor in citizens’ participation and 
the  legitimacy  of  both  the  election  results  and  those 
elected. So far, the new Provisional Electoral Council, 
which  I  established  in  broad  consultation  with  the 
country’s  driving  forces,  has  demonstrated  its  ability 
to  conduct  the  electoral  process  successfully.  Despite 
dealing with various technical and logistical obstacles 
in circumstances of financial penury, the Government 
has  shown  its  willingness  to  take  on  the  financial 
burden  of  the  elections.  I  am  pleased  to  say  that  the 
process is on the right track.
While the elections are not an end in themselves, 
they  represent  a  necessary  transition.  The  legitimacy 
of  the  new  Haitian  authorities  will  depend  on  their 
success. The day after the elections, our country will 
need to feel a powerful wave of international solidarity. 
Our  new  leaders  will  need  that  solidarity  in  order  to 
address  our  structural  problems,  to  ensure  that  they 
do  not  end  up  undermining  Haiti’s  efforts  to  emerge 
from  underdevelopment  and  to  enable  them  to  tackle 
the colossal task of turning our economy around after 
decades  of  regression.  They  will  need  it  in  order  to 
undertake the reforms that are essential to our economic 
and  social  modernization  and  in  order  to  make  the 
massive  investment  in  our  failing  infrastructure  and 
the training of the human resources that the country so 
desperately needs.
On  behalf  of  the  Haitian  people,  I  take  this 
opportunity  to  commend  the  immense  efforts  of  the 
United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti,  whose 
mandate will soon be the subject of a Security Council 
resolution. The progress that has been made during the 
Mission’s  12  years  in  Haiti  may  seem  slow  to  many 
observers,  but  it  is  nonetheless  real,  especially  in 
the  areas  of  security,  promotion  of  human  rights  and 
building  the  capacities  of  institutions  that  ensure  the 
rule of law, particularly through the Mission’s support 
to the Haitian national police and the judiciary.
This  is  also  an  opportunity  for  me  to  salute  the 
great courage and leadership of the Secretary-General. 
At the end of his second term, I urge him to accept the 
idea that my country needs international understanding 
if it is to tackle the challenges of the lack of sanitation 
that  continues  to  expose  it  to  epidemic  and  endemic 
disease and illnesses from all sources. In recent years, 
my  people  have  suffered  tremendously  from  waves 
of  infectious  diseases  such  as  malaria,  cholera,  Zika, 
chikungunya and dengue, among others. To overcome 
these scourges, declaration of good intent, comforting 
though  they  are,  are  of  no  effect  and  cannot  yield 
results. We require real and effective sanitary support 
with respect to drinking water and waste treatment.
The renewed outbreak of cholera in recent months 
is  one  of  the  most  acute  challenges  facing  Haiti.  It  is 
a  clear  illustration  of  the  perceptible  deterioration  in 
the  humanitarian  situation,  as  the  Secretary-General 
stressed  in  a  recent  report  to  the  Security  Council 
(S/2016/753). In this connection, the Government of the 
Republic of Haiti has noted and welcomed the statements 
of  the  Secretary-General  on  two  situations  that  have 
been  discomforting  for  the  United  Nations:  the  many 
cases of sexual abuse perpetrated by peacekeepers, and 
the introduction of cholera to Haiti.
16-29667
21/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
The recognition by the United Nations of its moral 
responsibility in the latter instance opens the way for 
real discussions as to the need to definitively end this 
pandemic,  which  affects  many  of  my  fellow  citizens. 
Here we trust that the urgent appeal of the Secretary-
General for a substantially strengthened programme to 
combat  cholera  and  to  provide  material  assistance  to 
victims and their families will be heeded and will fully 
meet the expectations of the people of Haiti.
Haiti is once again at a crossroads. The immediate 
future  of  the  country  hangs  on  the  success  of  the 
forthcoming  elections,  but  so  too  does  the  road  that 
the country will take in coming years. At this historic 
juncture,  the  people  and  the  Government  of  Haiti 
attach the greatest importance to the solidarity of the 
international  community  and  to  the  cooperation  of 
the  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States  to  ensure 
the  success  of  the  forthcoming  elections,  which,  we 
firmly believe, will mark a decisive stage in the lengthy 
process of consolidating democracy and bringing about 
the rule of law in our country.
As  I  conclude,  I  once  again  reaffirm  that  the 
people  of  my  country  have  confidence  in  the  United 
Nations  and  in  the  ideal  of  universal  solidarity,  of 
which the United Nations is the most lofty and constant 
embodiment. Through me, the people of Haiti reiterate 
once again their belief in our Organization’s capacity to 
build peace in the world, increase cooperation among 
peoples and help deprived populations to take charge of 
their destiny in the context of a new international order 
that is more just, has a greater spirit of solidarity and 
is a harbinger of hope and opportunity for all, so that 
everyone  can  have  the  opportunity  to  enjoy  its  share 
of progress.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Acting President of the 
Republic of Haiti for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Jocelerme  Privert,  Acting  President  of  the 
Republic of Haiti, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
and Media, and Minister for Worship of the 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of  State, 
Minister for Communication and Media, and Minister 
for Worship of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
Mr.  Xavier  Bettel,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of 
State,  Minister  for  Communication  and  Media, 
and  Minister  for  Worship  of  the  Grand  Duchy  of 
Luxembourg, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Xavier  Bettel,  Prime 
Minister, Minister of State, Minister for Communication 
and  Media,  and  Minister  for  Worship  of  the  Grand 
Duchy of Luxembourg, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly.
Mr. Bettel (Luxembourg) (spoke in French): May I 
first of all congratulate Mr. Thompson on his assumption 
of the presidency of the General Assembly at its seventy-
first session. I wish also to take this opportunity to thank 
his predecessor, whose outstanding work enabled us to 
modernize and render more transparent an entire series 
of processes, including that leading to the selection of 
future Secretaries-General of our Organization.
I also wish to commend the exemplary commitment 
of our Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, as his mandate 
and  his  decade  of  service  to  our  Organization  draws 
to  a  close.  He  has  rightly  stated,  as  fact  and  as  an 
imperative, that we are the first generation that can put 
an end to poverty, and we are the last generation that 
can  act  so  as  to  avoid  the  repercussions  of  unbridled 
climate change.
A  year  ago  virtually  to  this  day,  we  adopted, 
in  this  very  Hall,  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. Today we must implement this ambitious 
universal programme and maintain the 2015 momentum. 
I  therefore  welcome  the  selection  of  the  theme  “The 
Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a  universal  push  to 
transform our world” for this session of the Assembly. 
We must work to ensure that no one is left behind and 
that  we  can  all  can  reap  the  benefits  of  sustainable, 
just  and  equitable  development.  The  year  2015  was 
also  marked  by  the  adoption  of  the  Paris  Agreement, 
which  Luxembourg  strongly  committed  to  during  its 
presidency of the Council of the European Union.
Address by Mr. Xavier Bettel, Prime Minister, 
Minister of State, Minister for Communication 
The time has come to implement these international 
agreements and to ensure that the commitments that we 
22/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
have  made  internationally  and  nationally  bear  fruit. 
We  must  chart  a  course  to  a  sustainable  future  for 
coming generations.
Luxembourg is actively working to implement the 
17 Sustainable Development Goals and will be among 
those States ratifying the Paris Agreement at the end of 
the year. We must act in an inclusive manner, involving 
the various stakeholders and ensuring that our policies 
are consistent, particularly in the area of development, 
so that we can strike a balance between the economic, 
environmental and social pillars.
We  must  invest  in  education  and  health  care.  We 
must fight social inequality, ensure decent work for all 
and provide robust social protection systems.
The President returned to the Chair.
My country is among the seven countries that spend 
at least 0.7 per cent of gross national income on official 
development  assistance;  this  has  been  the  case  since 
2000. Official development assistance has an important 
rolе  to  play,  but  we  must  also  mobilize  other  sources 
of funding. Faced with the relative decline in financial 
resources for development and humanitarian action, it 
is more urgent than ever to broaden the donor base.
The  first  World  Humanitarian  Summit,  in  which 
I  had  the  honour  to  take  part  last  May  in  Istanbul, 
made  it  possible  to  reassert  the  principles  governing 
humanitarian action: humanity, impartiality, neutrality 
and independence. As a signatory to the grand bargain, 
Luxembourg will seek to increase the predictability and 
effectiveness of its humanitarian contributions through 
multi-year  agreements.  We  also  intend  to  strengthen 
aid by allocating 5 per cent of funding directly to local 
organizations by 2020.
Sharing, giving and helping are not words we hear 
much among many of my constituents these days. But 
are  we  aware  of  how  fortunate  we  are?  While  in  our 
country  some  parents  must  decide  only  if  the  dinner 
they  will  serve  their  children  will  be  hot  or  cold,  in 
other countries the question is, when will I be able to 
give my children some food?
that 
The  high-level  meeting  held  earlier  this  week 
reminded  us 
the  challenge  posed  by  mass 
movements of refugees and migrants in recent months 
and  years  can  be  addressed  only  globally.  In  the 
second  half  of  2015,  my  country  held  the  presidency 
of  the  Council  of  European  Union.  Migration  was, 
unfortunately, at the centre of our concerns during the 
presidency.  Personally,  I  have  learned  a  few  lessons 
from that experience. On the European level, solidarity 
and burden-sharing are also indispensable to a credible 
migration  policy  that  includes  border  controls  or 
respects the Dublin Regulation.
It  is  necessary  to  clearly  distinguish  between 
refugees in need of protection and irregular economic 
migrants. Most of the refugees in need of international 
protection have had to flee situations of war, sometimes, 
as in the case of Syria, through mass exoduses. The role 
of  our  Organization  is  crucial  in  conflict  prevention, 
peacebuilding, peacekeeping and the responsibility to 
protect civilian populations.
A  large  part  of  the  migration  towards  European 
countries  is  also  economic.  One  cannot  treat  with 
contempt those who, for themselves or for their loved 
ones,  often  embark  on  a  long  and  dangerous  journey. 
We  cannot  fail  to  welcome  them,  but  it  is  difficult  to 
accommodate all of them. At stake, as we know very 
well today, is the acceptance of our opinions. Populism 
is being nourished by the feeling that matters are not 
under  control.  Some  people  profit  from  the  confused 
situation by exploiting it for their own purposes. When 
I  hear,  as  I  did  again  this  week,  a  political  candidate 
say that a refugee may be a terrorist, I condemn such 
statements  in  the  firmest  possible  terms.  That  is 
because a person who has left his country is a victim of 
terrorism, not a perpetrator.
I  believe  that  we  need  to  keep  the  paths  of  legal 
migration  open,  not  merely  because  developed 
countries, notably those in Europe, need them, but also 
because it would be mistaken and dangerous to declare 
an end to all migration. Migration, when it is controlled, 
can constitute an opportunity for everyone. We must, 
I  think,  provide  sufficient  development  opportunities 
to avoid disorderly movements. The approach adopted 
at the European Union-Africa summit, held in Valletta 
in  2015,  seems  to  me  to  be  a  good  one.  Europe  has 
committed  itself  to  strengthening  assistance  to  its 
African  partners  with 
increased  cooperation  on 
migratory  flows  at  the  borders.  In  the  view  of  my 
country, it is an additional effort and not challenging to 
the existing models of cooperation and assistance.
But what has happened since the Valletta Summit? 
The meetings provided an opportunity for dialogue, but 
it is essential to honour the commitments and to act. I 
think that the high-level plenary meeting of the General 
Assembly  on  19  September  can  help  to  deal  with  all 
16-29667
23/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
those  problems  at  an  appropriate  level:  on  the  global 
level of our Organization. The population displacement 
has affected all regions of the world. It also affects those 
countries  that  are  experiencing  precarious  situations 
for their own populations. As the New York Declaration 
for Refugees and Migrants (resolution 71/1) invites us 
to do, we will actively participate in the work for the 
adoption in 2018 of a global compact on refugees and a 
global compact for safe, regular and orderly migration.
Armed  conflict,  the  proliferation  of  weapons,  the 
lack of development, violent extremism, radicalization 
and  terrorism,  threats  posed  by  climate  change,  poor 
governance  and  violations  of  human  rights  continue 
to  dominate  the  daily  news.  Terrorist  attacks  have 
shaken the Middle East and Africa, Europe, the United 
States and Asia. The effects of climate change manifest 
themselves  in  increasingly  extreme  weather  patterns 
that  disproportionately  affect  the  most  vulnerable 
States and populations, creating tension and unrest and 
pushing people to migrate to places they hope will be 
more clement. Armed conflicts persist or are likely to 
break  out,  endangering  the  survival  of  thousands  of 
civilians, exposing them to violence, including sexual 
violence, and threatening their most basic rights.
The  African  continent 
remains  particularly 
vulnerable to both internal and external challenges and 
shocks.  I  do  not  wish  to  recite  a  litany  of  ongoing  or 
potential crises. Rather than give a gloomy account of 
current  events,  I  want  to  comment  on  the  remarkable 
development  potential  of  the  African  continent.  I  am 
persuaded that, together, we can act so that peace can 
become a reality in South Sudan, Somalia, Libya and 
the Central African Republic. It is up to the parties to 
those conflicts to bring about their settlement, thereby 
reducing  the  suffering  of  the  population  and  paving 
the way for sustainable development. The international 
community is ready to assist and support their efforts 
for the restoration and consolidation of peace.
Africa has formidable resources. In the first place, 
it has a pool of extraordinary talent represented by its 
youth.  It  is  important  to  focus  on  education,  health 
and  job  creation  in  the  context  of  inclusive  national 
development  policies  that  make  use  of  the  human 
potential and natural resources of Africa. Such policies 
should  aim  to  reduce  poverty  and  inequality,  reduce 
vulnerability to shocks and create countless prospects 
for the development and flourishing of the peoples.
Africa  is  a  continent  to  which  my  country, 
Luxembourg,  feels  close  because  of  strong 
ties 
developed over many years as a result of our development 
cooperation  policy.  That  partnership  is  a  work  in 
progress  and  aims  to  meet  the  needs  of  the  African 
countries. Its focus has become increasingly economic, 
in  complement  to  efforts  hitherto  concentrated  on 
social sectors.
remains 
the  place 
The  United  Nations 
the 
international  community  chooses  as  the  forum  for 
addressing  the  many  multidimensional  crises  and 
challenges  our  planet  faces  today.  That  is  true  of 
sustainable  development.  It  is  also  the  case  in  regard 
to  combating  terrorism.  The  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism Strategy has established a political 
framework 
terrorism  while  respecting 
human rights and individual freedoms. In that context, 
we welcome the Secretary-General’s Plan of Action to 
Prevent Violent Extremism.
to  combat 
We  all  must  also  open  the  eyes  of  some  young 
people  who  in  their  past  behaviour  showed  no  such 
tendencies  yet  tomorrow  want  to  fight  against  their 
own  families.  For  what  reason?  Because  of  religion? 
Absolutely not. They flout and abuse Islam. They kill 
their own brothers and sisters. We must condemn such 
behaviour.  No  religion  can  condone  such  savagery. 
It  is  important  to  remind  those  young  people  that  no 
reward awaits them. All they are doing is injuring their 
own religion.
The  United  Nations  also  plays  a  vital  role  in  the 
maintenance of international peace and security, and a 
particular role is reserved for the Security Council. All 
too often, regrettably, the United Nations acts too late 
when a crisis has already erupted. We firmly endorse 
efforts  to  prevent  crises  or  to  avoid  the  recurrence 
of conflicts.
Luxembourg  strongly  supports 
the  Secretary-
General’s  Human  Rights  Up  Front  initiative.  Massive 
violations  of  human  rights  are  often  the  first  signs 
of  a  crisis  about  to  worsen.  Since  its  establishment 
in  2005,  we  have  played  an  active  part  in  the  work 
and  discussions  of  the  United  Nations  Peacebuilding 
Commission, and we support the Peacebuilding Fund. 
The  policy  guidance  and  financial  support  provided 
by those entities have often been crucial in preventing 
the relapse of post-conflict countries into conflict, and 
they contribute to peacebuilding.
24/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
The  adoption  by  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security Council this year of almost identical resolutions 
to bring about sustainable peace represents a paradigm 
shift. The resolutions put conflict prevention at the very 
heart of United Nations action, in line with the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  which  highlights  the  need  to 
take effective collective measures to prevent and avert 
threats to peace.
Luxembourg fully subscribes to the idea of moving 
from  a  post-conflict  peacebuilding  approach  to  one 
of  sustaining  peace.  That  includes  activities  aimed  at 
preventing  the  outbreak,  continuation  or  recurrence 
of a conflict, addressing the root causes and ensuring 
national  reconciliation  with  a  view  to  reconstruction 
and  development.  Such  an  approach, 
resolutely 
political,  integrates  the  three  pillars  of  action  of  the 
United  Nations  —  human  rights,  peace  and  security, 
and  development.  It  is  inclusive  and  is  characterized 
by  national  ownership  of  efforts  to  sustain  peace,  in 
conformity with the wishes of all members of society 
and  with  the  ongoing  support  of  the  international 
community.  We  must  turn  these  words  into  deeds. 
The  General  Assembly  can  count  on  Luxembourg  in 
that regard.
If  there  is  a  conflict  that  should  require  us  to 
redouble  our  efforts,  it  is  the  one  in  Syria.  This 
conflict has given rise to an unprecedented movement 
of  refugees  towards  neighbouring  countries.  Jordan, 
Lebanon and Turkey are on the front line, then Europe 
and  beyond.  This  situation  is  untenable.  We  must  do 
everything  possible  to  address  this  crisis  as  best  we 
can,  observing  international  law  and  welcoming  and 
protecting  refugees.  We  must  do  everything  possible 
to  put  an  end  to  this  dreadful  war  that  is  destroying 
Syria and destabilizing the entire region. For more than 
five years, Syria has been martyred both by the brutal 
repression  and  atrocities  carried  out  by  the  Al-Assad 
regime  and  by 
terrorist  crimes 
committed by Da’esh and other terrorist groups that are 
rife in the country, profiting from a war economy and 
receiving external support.
the  abominable 
The  toll  is  terrible.  The  United  Nations  estimates 
that  there  have  been  more  than  300,000  victims, 
including  tens  of  thousands  of  children.  An  entire 
generation of children has been exposed to violence and 
death,  deprived  of  fundamental  freedoms,  protection 
and  education.  Random  air  bombings  and  airdrops  of 
barrels  of  explosives,  the  use  of  chemical  weapons, 
violence  and  violations  of  international  law  continue 
without  respite.  Sieges  are  ongoing.  Assistance  is 
denied and impediments to humanitarian aid continue. 
Humanitarian convoys are deliberately targeted. 
I take this opportunity to renew our appeal to the 
parties,  in  particular  the  Syrian  authorities,  to  afford 
rapid, safe and unobstructed access by United Nations 
and humanitarian organizations throughout Syria. Even 
war  has  rules.  And  so  long  as  the  war  lasts,  we  must 
demand  and  ensure  that  these  rules  and  international 
humanitarian law are respected. Those responsible for 
war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in 
Syria,  whatever  they  are,  must  be  brought  to  justice, 
including before the International Criminal Court.
I  commend  the  repeated  efforts  of  the  United 
States of America and Russia. They have led to a new 
agreement on cessation of hostilities that came into force 
10 days ago. This fragile agreement was renounced by 
the  Syrian  army,  then  crippled  by  the  unacceptable 
attack  on  a  humanitarian  convoy  on  19  September.  It 
must be respected and scrupulously observed. 
The  solution  to  the  conflict  in  Syria  can  be 
achieved  through  a  political  transition  that  meets  the 
legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people, in line with 
the Geneva communiqué of 30 June 2012 (S/2012/523, 
annex)  and  Security  Council  resolution  2254  (2015). 
The  United  Nations  must  play  a  determining  role  to 
facilitate negotiations among Syrians to bring about a 
political transition that should include all members of 
Syrian society.
On  4  February,  I  attendeded,  with  our  Minister 
for Cooperation and Humanitarian Action, the London 
2016  donors  conference,  entitled  “Supporting  Syria 
and the region”. We will adhere to the commitment to 
provide  €37.5  million  between  2016  and  2020  to  help 
the victims of the conflict in Syria and in neighbouring 
countries, with an emphasis on children’s education, in 
particular by supporting the UNICEF programme “No 
lost generation”.
Last  week,  I  returned  from  a  visit  to  Israel  and 
Palestine.  While  the  Syrian  conflict  is  hitting  the 
headlines,  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  remains  a 
strong  factor  for  destabilization  in  the  Middle  East. 
It is a catalyst for frustration and hatred that terrorist 
movements in the region feed on brazenly. We cannot 
resign ourselves to allowing this conflict to continue. 
The  two-State  solution  is  the  only  possible  way  of 
arriving  at  a  sustainable  settlement  of  the  Israeli-
Palestinian conflict. The parameters of this solution are 
16-29667
25/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
well known and include the 1967 borders and Jerusalem 
as the capital of two States.
During  my  recent  visit,  I  encouraged  Israeli  and 
Palestinian leaders to resume direct dialogue. If there 
is  no  movement,  the  international  community  must 
play its role. We also support initiatives such as those 
taken by France to organize an international conference 
to  help  the  parties  to  resume  negotiations  in  order  to 
arrive at a two-State solution. We continue to believe 
that the negotiating format should be broadened, with 
increased participation of Arab and European countries. 
In addition, the role of the Security Council should be 
reactivated and a reasonable deadline for the conclusion 
of negotiations should be established. 
Israel has the right to live in peace and security. The 
Palestinians have the right to a sovereign, independent, 
democratic,  contiguous  and  viable  State.  The  two  go 
hand  in  hand.  There  is  no  alternative  to  coexistence, 
in peace and security. It is important for them to stop 
talking  about  each  other  and  instead  to  talk  to  each 
other. Diplomacy can resolve the thorniest of problems. 
As proof of this, a comprehensive solution to the issue 
of Iranian nuclear weapons was reached last year. 
We  must  remain  vigilant  when  it  comes  to  the 
implementation  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action. 
Nuclear  non-proliferation  efforts  continue 
to  be 
undermined  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea.  The  multiple  ballistic  missiles  launched  by 
North Korea and the recent North Korean nuclear test 
are in flagrant violation of the international obligations 
imposed on the country by Security Council resolutions. 
This  provocative  escalation  is  unacceptable.  Apart 
from  any  Security  Council  measures  that  will  be 
taken,  the  Six-Party  Talks  on  North  Korea’s  nuclear 
programme  need  to  resume  in  order  to  bring  about 
verifiable denuclearization of the Korean peninsula by 
pacific means.
In all the areas I have touched upon, we recognize 
that the United Nations has a leading role to play. As a 
founding country of the United Nations, Luxembourg 
has based its foreign policy on its active participation 
in  multilateral  cooperation,  a  multilateralism  that  is 
rooted in respect for international law and cooperation 
among sovereign and equal States. Our commitment to 
strong  and  effective  multilateralism,  with  the  United 
Nations  at  its  heart,  inspired  us  during  our  historic 
first term on the Security Council, in 2013-2014. This 
same  commitment  led  my  Government  to  propose 
Luxembourg as a candidate for a seat on the Security 
Council  for  a  two-year  term  in  2031  and  2032.  Our 
candidacy illustrates Luxembourg’s resolve to continue 
to  serve  the  United  Nations  as  a  responsible  member 
of  the  international  community,  dedicated  to  the 
purposes and principles embodied in the Charter of the 
United Nations.
I shall leave New York this week with hope in my 
heart.  The  many  speeches  that  we  have  heard  in  this 
Hall show that dialogue is possible. Our credibility is 
at  stake.  The  world  expects  action,  not  words.  Let  us 
get to work! 
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister of State, 
Minister for Communication and Media, and Minister 
for Worship of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Xavier  Bettel,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of 
State,  Minister  for  Communication  and  Media, 
and  Minister  for  Worship  of  the  Grand  Duchy  of 
Luxembourg, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Pavel Filip, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Moldova
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic 
of Moldova.
Mr. Pavel Filip, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Moldova, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Pavel Filip, Prime Minister of the 
Republic  of  Moldova,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
Mr.  Filip  (Republic  of  Moldova)  (spoke 
in 
Romanian; English text provided by the delegation): I 
feel  honoured  to  participate  for  the  first  time,  as  the 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Moldova, in the work 
of the General Assembly.
Let  me  start  by  warmly  congratulating  you, 
Mr. President, on your election. My delegation wishes 
you  every  success  in  your  important  mandate  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
first  session.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express, on behalf of the Government of the Republic 
of Moldova, our appreciation to Mr. Ban Ki-moon for 
his work as Secretary-General and his valuable efforts 
26/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
aimed at redefining the role of the United Nations and 
adapting it to a world in continuous flux. 
I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  outgoing  President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  for 
showing leadership and dedication during the previous 
session and for promoting an inclusive and transparent 
approach to the process of selecting a new Secretary-
General.  We believe that such an innovative approach 
should be used in future and that the criteria of equitable 
geographic representation should be formalized so as to 
allow  all  regional  groups  to  have  been  represented  in 
the highest elected post at the United Nations.
We call on all States Members of the United Nations, 
particularly members of the Security Council, to elect 
a Secretary-General from the Eastern European region, 
the  only  region  that  has  not  been  represented  in  this 
high position despite its having put forward a number 
of  qualified  candidates.  The  issue  of  gender  equality 
should be also considered in the selection process. We 
believe that a possible decision to elect a woman as the 
United  Nations  Secretary-General  will  have  positive 
resonance with the growing international expectations 
in this regard.
The year 2016 has indeed been a difficult year for 
the  Organization.  Serious  conflicts  and  crises  have 
continued  to  have  a  negative  impact  on  international 
peace,  security  and  stability.  We  have  witnessed  new 
and tragic manifestations of conflict in various parts of 
the world, particularly in the Middle East and Africa. 
All  of  us  are  deeply  concerned  by  the  ramifications 
and  consequences  of  these  conflicts,  particularly  the 
conflict in Syria.
International 
terrorism  and  various  forms  of 
violent  extremism,  fed  by  offensive  ideologies,  have 
continued 
in  countries 
everywhere,  including  Europe.  The  Global  Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy  and  the  Secretary-General’s  Plan 
of  Action  to  Prevent  Violent  Extremism  lay  out  the 
activities  that  need  to  be  undertaken,  individually 
and  collectively,  bearing  in  mind  that  some  of  their 
provisions  complement  our  national  legislation,  in 
particular  the  law  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova  on 
countering extremist activities.
to  strike 
indiscriminately 
The  Republic  of  Moldova  welcomes  the  General 
Assembly  high-level  meeting  on  addressing  large 
movements of refugees and migrants and the Leaders’ 
Summit  on  Refugees  held  earlier  this  week.  The  two 
high-level  meetings  allowed  the  participating  States 
and  organizations  to  discuss  principles  and  policies 
designed to address migration and the refugee crisis. We 
share the deep concern expressed about the challenges 
the  international  system  is  facing  in  this  regard.  The 
large movements of people, the scale of migration and 
the  refugee  crises,  unprecedented  since  the  Second 
World War, require a global humanitarian partnership 
capable of delivering the needed protection, as provided 
for by the international law.
In  our  view,  it  is  important  to  bear  in  mind 
the  complex  nature  of  motives  that  drive  people  to 
move  and  to  make  a  clear  distinction  among  them. 
The  solutions  identified  should  be  tailored  to  every 
individual situation, and a comprehensive global long-
term solution should be outlined, one that goes beyond 
an  ad  hoc  emergency  response.  In  this  context,  we 
appreciate  the  indispensable  contribution  made  by 
the  International  Organization  for  Migration  (IOM), 
which joins the United Nations system as a full-fledged 
agency  pursuant  to  the  Agreement  concerning  the 
Relationship between the United Nations and the IOM 
signed on 19 September. We must also fight smuggling 
and  trafficking  in  persons  in  a  comprehensive  and 
resolute manner.
The  Republic  of  Moldova  also  attaches  critical 
importance 
to  fostering  development  partnerships 
aimed at supporting countries in need of assistance to 
achieve  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs). 
In our view, the United Nations development system is 
indispensable for forging such partnerships, including 
at the country level. We note with interest the progress 
achieved by those countries whose efforts to implement 
the SDGs are already under way. Many were presented 
at  the  2016  High-level  Political  Forum  held  under  the 
auspices  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  where 
the Republic of Moldova serves as a member.
The  Moldovan  Government,  partnering  with  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  other 
stakeholders,  launched  a  process  of  localizing  the 
SDGs  and  is  currently  working  on  putting  in  place  a 
mechanism to measure progress in their implementation. 
For coordination and monitoring purposes, the National 
Coordination  Council  for  Regional  Development  was 
established  in  July  within  the  Office  of  the  Prime 
Minister. To ensure synergy between the SDGs and the 
national development framework, we plan to review our 
national strategy for development, “Moldova 2020”.
16-29667
27/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
Mindful  of 
in 
the  constraints 
the  current 
international environment — which is not promising in 
terms  of  increases  in  aid  —  we  should  look  globally 
and nationally at ways to develop innovative sources of 
financing and increase the effectiveness of existing aid. 
The  efforts  of  the  Moldovan  Government  to  increase 
aid  effectiveness  continue  to  be  guided  by  the  2005 
Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness.
Coordination  with  development  partners  in  the 
Republic  of  Moldova  in  this  area  is  based  on  the 
Partnership  Principles 
Implementation  Plan.  We 
believe that through the effective use of resources, this 
institutionalized model of coordination and partnership 
will facilitate the gradual achievement of the SDGs in 
our country. In this context, I would also like to stress 
our  interest  in  obtaining  development  financing  and 
assistance for climate and disaster resilience, in the light 
of the climate-related vulnerabilities of our country.
We recognize climate-change risks and implications 
for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The 
Republic  of  Moldova  supported  the  negotiation  and 
adoption  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change. 
I take this opportunity today to inform the Assembly 
that  the  Republic  of  Moldova  signed  the  historic 
Agreement at the recent treaty event, an action that will 
be  followed  soon  by  ratification  of  the  Agreement  by 
our Parliament.
Perhaps  never  before  has  there  been  such  a  clear 
correlation between migration, sustainable development 
and  climate  change,  on  the  one  hand,  and  peace  and 
security,  on  the  other.  We  cannot  realistically  expect 
to fulfil the 2030 Agenda in the absence of peace and 
security,  just  as  peace  and  security  will  always  be 
vulnerable in the absence of sustainable development.
The  unprecedented  increase  in  the  number  of 
regional  and  internal  conflicts,  the  intensification  of 
armed  violence  at  the  global  level  and  the  resurgent 
arms  race  are  only  a  few  ingredients  that  have 
fundamentally changed the international environment. 
International 
terrorism  and  all  forms  of  violent 
extremism  have  continued  to  caused  innocent  human 
causalities  and  material  losses  everywhere,  including 
in Europe. The horrific scenes of suffering and death in 
France, Belgium, Germany and many other countries, 
widely broadcast by the global media networks, show 
that these phenomena cannot be countered by military, 
political  or  economic  means  alone.  We  must  look  for 
solutions  that  will  address  rather  than  exacerbate  the 
threat,  based  on  a  clear  understanding  of  the  factors 
that  generate  terrorism,  fundamentalism,  fanaticism 
and the new forms of violence.
We note with appreciation the Secretary-General’s 
initiatives  aimed  at  reforming  the  Organization  to 
make  it  more  effective.  The  Republic  of  Moldova 
welcomes the ongoing United Nations reform process, 
particularly  regarding  Security  Council  reform.  Too 
often,  that  principal  body  has  been  criticized  for  its 
failure  to  maintain  international  peace  and  security. 
It  is  therefore  essential  to  make  it  more  efficient  in 
discharging its primary responsibilities.
In  our  view,  efficiency  can  be  achieved  by 
improving the Council’s representativeness, legitimacy, 
transparency  and  accountability,  as  well  as  by 
restricting the right of veto on issues of substance, as 
provided for by the Charter of the United Nations. We 
expect the members of the Security Council, especially 
the  permanent  members,  not  only  to  react  but  to  act 
preventively,  promptly  and 
impartially  whenever 
peace  and  security  are  threatened,  the  principles  of 
international law are disregarded or the sovereignty and 
integrity of the States Members of the United Nations 
are blatantly violated.
Under the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Charter, 
certain  regional  organizations  have  been  entrusted 
by  the  United  Nations  with  dealing  with  a  number  of 
conflicts that are not a principal focus of the Council’s 
work.  In  our  view,  more  systematic  outreach  to  these 
regional organizations is needed. Steps should also be 
taken  to  increase  their  accountability,  particularly  in 
the  case  of  protracted  conflicts,  when  the  situation  is 
not improving or is even worsening over the years.
Lack  of  progress  should  prompt  more  direct 
involvement  from  the  appropriate  United  Nations 
bodies.  We  believe  that  no  conflict  falls  outside  the 
purview  of  the  United  Nations,  regardless  of  whether 
it  is  on  the  Security  Council’s  agenda  or  not.  In 
this  context,  we  welcome  the  high-level  event  on 
strengthening  the  capabilities  of  the  Organization 
for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  as  a 
Chapter  VIII  organization,  organized  by  the  OSCE 
Chairman-in-Office,  Frank-Walter  Steinmeier,  at  the 
margins  of  the  seventy-first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  which  allowed  the  participants  to  discuss 
issues relevant to the aforementioned considerations.
Accordingly,  we  appreciate  the  fact  that  the 
General  Assembly  agreed  to  include  in  its  agenda 
28/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
item 32, “Protracted conflicts in the GUAM area and 
their implications for international peace, security and 
development”.  These  unresolved  conflicts  —  some, 
like  the  one  in  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  date  back 
25  years    —  continue  to  have  a  negative  impact  on 
the  political,  social  and  economic  development  of 
the  GUAM  States.  The  General  Assembly’s  debates 
under  this  item  do  not,  as  some  fear,  undermine  the 
existing mechanism to negotiate the settlement of these 
conflicts.  On  the  contrary,  the  ongoing  monitoring 
of  the  situation  in  the  areas  in  question,  along  with 
a  proactive  approach  by  the  United  Nations,  when 
necessary,  can  effectively  address  attempts  aimed  at 
changing  the  political  borders  of  some  GUAM  States 
through  methods  that  run  counter  to  democracy  and 
international law.
that 
The  Transnistrian  conflict 
the  Republic 
of  Moldova  has  endured  for  many  years  is,  first  and 
foremost,  a  product  of  the  long-standing  geopolitical 
interests  associated  with  our  region.  External  factors 
played  a  decisive  role  in  igniting  this  conflict  in  the 
early 1990s. It was triggered shortly after the Republic 
of  Moldova  declared  independence,  on  the  very  day 
our country was granted United Nations membership, 
2  March  1992.  Unlike  other  internal  conflicts  that 
are  generated  and  fostered  by  ethnic  and  religious 
antagonisms,  the  Transnistrian  conflict  has  a  purely 
geopolitical  character.  In  theory,  that  feature  of  the 
conflict  makes  it  easier  to  resolve  and  therefore 
strengthens  our  conviction  that  it  can  be  resolved 
through  the  resolute  joint  political  efforts  of  all  the 
parties involved.
The similar ethnic composition of the populations 
living on both sides of the Nistru river and their mutual 
lack  of  hatred  or  intolerance  towards  one  another 
speak  for  themselves  and  illustrate  both  the  artificial 
character  of  the  Transnistrian  entity  and  the  falsity 
of  its  ideological  and  political  tenets.  The  recurrent 
declarations  by  the  exponents  of  the  Transnistrian 
regime on the need to make the territory it controls a 
part of another country, with no common borders with 
Moldova,  are  not  only  unrealistic  but  also  seriously 
undermine the settlement process.
Despite  the  many  difficulties  encountered  in 
the  settlement  process, 
the  Moldovan  authorities 
are  determined  to  find  a  political  solution  to  the 
Transnistrian conflict, using the 5+2 negotiating format 
and based on respect for the sovereignty and territorial 
integrity  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  by  way  of 
granting special legal status to the Transnistrian region. 
We are firmly convinced that the only way to reach this 
goal is through negotiations. However, negotiations can 
succeed  only  if  all  the  stakeholders  show  the  needed 
political will, act in good faith and refrain from putting 
forward rigid preconditions in negotiating the political 
aspects of the settlement.
What  is  the  right  path  to  final  settlement?  We 
believe that the joint and resolute actions of all parties 
to the 5+2 settlement format on the basis of a common 
agenda  and  common  objectives  are  what  is  required, 
as are enhanced confidence-building and the bringing 
together of the people on both banks of the river Nistru 
in all spheres of social and economic life. It will also 
entail  the  identification  of  solutions  for  topical  issues 
and  the  engagement  in  serious  and  objective  political 
discussions on the future of the Transnistrian region as 
an integral part of the Republic of Moldova. In addition, 
it  will  involve  a  firm  commitment  to  maintaining 
stability and refraining from stoking tensions. 
Only by acting in this way will we be able to stop and 
prevent the violation of human rights in the Transnistrian 
region,  discourage  unilateral  destabilization  and 
gradually  create  an  environment  of  confidence  and 
trust.  That  is  the  path  the  Moldovan  authorities  will 
continue  to  follow,  which,  hopefully,  will  deliver  the 
desired result — a viable and comprehensive settlement 
of the Transnistrian conflict and the reintegration of the 
Republic of Moldova.
With respect to factors that have a negative impact 
on  the  political  environment  and  regional  security,  I 
would like to reiterate our deep concern over the lack 
of  progress  in  the  withdrawal  of  Russian  armaments 
and troops stationed on our territory without the prior 
consent  of  the  Moldovan  authorities,  contrary  to  the 
provisions  of  the  our  Constitution.  Likewise,  we  are 
deeply  concerned  about  the  increasing  frequency  of 
military  exercises  involving  foreign  troops,  which 
are  often  conducted  jointly  with  the  military  and 
paramilitary units of the Transnistrian regime.
The fragile security conditions in our region as a 
whole, amplified by the destabilizing factors in eastern 
Ukraine,  require  a  constructive  re-engagement  of  all 
States  participating  in  the  5+2  settlement  format,  as 
well of other relevant or interested actors, particularly 
the  OSCE  and  the  United  Nations,  with  a  view  to 
identifying as swiftly as possible responses and solutions 
for  these  long-standing  problems,  in  conformity  with 
16-29667
29/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
the international law. We expect the General Assembly 
to focus constructively on the Transnistrian and other 
protracted conflicts, particularly when it considers the 
annual  resolution  on  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the OSCE.
This year, the Republic of Moldova is celebrating 
the twenty-fifth anniversary of its independence. In that 
time, we have achieved many but not all of the objectives 
that we set for ourselves. We have nevertheless laid the 
foundations for a democratic society, based on European 
political,  economic  and  social  values.  We  are  fully 
committed to the idea of European integration, which 
has  become  our  national  project,  and  our  journey  on 
that path is being guided by the Association Agreement 
we concluded with the European Union. The Republic 
of Moldova is currently in a period of transition, during 
which  our  main  priorities  are  the  reforms  that  should 
facilitate  our  country’s  modernization  and  enhance 
its  institutions.  The  Government  that  I  am  privileged 
to lead is determined to finalize ongoing, meaningful 
reforms and will rely on the support of external partners 
in that critical endeavour.
During  the  past  25  years  as  a  State  Member  of 
the  United  Nations,  Moldova  has  shared  the  common 
values,  responsibilities,  achievements  and  setbacks  of 
the  Organizations.  On  this  occasion,  I  would  like  to 
reiterate the Republic of Moldova’s commitment to the 
United Nations and its strong desire to cooperate with 
all States Members of the United Nations with a view to 
fulfilling the noble purposes and principles enshrined 
in the United Nations Charter.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Moldova for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Pavel Filip, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Moldova, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign 
Affairs and Trade of the Independent State of 
Samoa
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign 
Affairs and Trade of the Independent State of Samoa.
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of 
the  Independent  State  of  Samoa,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, Prime 
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of 
the  Independent  State  of  Samoa,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the Assembly.
Mr. Malielegaoi (Samoa): The General Assembly 
at its seventy-first session holds special significance for 
Samoa and the Pacific region. At the helm of the General 
Assembly for the first time ever is a Pacific Islander and 
diplomat  from  Fiji,  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Peter 
Thomson. The Pacific is often considered a region of 
peace and tranquillity, but such credit belies the diverse 
and enormous challenges that we face daily, as a group 
and as island States. The focus of your presidency, Sir, 
on the collective implementation of all the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  is  therefore  a  timely  and 
fitting catalyst to help transform our region’s numerous 
challenges  into  real  and  lasting  opportunities.  Samoa 
congratulates you on your election as President of the 
General  Assembly  and  lends  its  full  support  to  the 
agenda that will guide our work during your tenure.
This general debate is the Secretary-General’s final 
one before he steps down after a decade of service to 
the  cause  of  humankind.  From  Samoa’s  perspective, 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon has been, and continues to be, a true 
champion of and persistent advocate for issues that are 
of  immense  significance  to  small  island  developing 
States  (SIDS).  His  passionate  leadership  on  climate 
change  —  the  undisputed  priority  concern  of  every 
Pacific  island  country  and  territory  —  has  endeared 
him  to  the  Pacific  region.  Equally  memorable  is  the 
rare distinction he holds as the only Secretary-General 
in  the  71-year  history  of  the  United  Nations  who  has 
ever  visited  the  Pacific  region  twice  during  his  term 
of office. That is no mean feat, given the constraints of 
isolation and travel.
In September 2011, the Secretary-General attended 
the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  Leaders  summit  in  New 
Zealand,  visiting  Solomon  Islands  and  Kiribati  along 
the way. There he witnessed at first hand both the scars 
and  excessive  damage  to  the  physical  landscape  and 
coastlines caused by climate change, on the one hand, 
and, on the other, the resilience and sheer determination 
of Pacific peoples on the front lines of climate change 
to ensure the survival of some of the islands and their 
continued existence as sovereign nations.
30/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
Later, in 2014, Samoa’s isolation and lack of political 
clout  in  the  global  arena  were  bridged  when  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon,  together  with  the  entire  Chief  Executive 
Board, visited to attend the United Nations Conference 
on Small Island Developing States hosted by Samoa on 
behalf of the Pacific region. On his arrival Mr. Ban was 
welcomed as “His Excellency the Secretary-General of 
the United Nations”. A few days later on his departure, 
he  was  fondly  bid  farewell  as  “Afioga  Tupua  Ban 
Ki-moon”,  after  he  was  conferred  the  princely  title 
of  Tupua.  Such  events  are  now  a  memorable  part  of 
our history. The close rapport between the Secretary-
General  and  our  region  was  further  evidenced  this 
morning when Pacific leaders met with him as part of 
our yearly meetings in New York — a much-anticipated 
event,  which  has  become  an  annual  feature  of  our 
September calendar.
I  would  like  to  add  that  as  this  chapter  in  the 
Secretary-General’s and Samoan chief’s life of service 
to multilateralism draws to a close, we thank him for his 
principled leadership and robust advocacy with regard 
to issues that affect and have an impact on our islands 
and peoples personally and directly. We wish him well 
in  his  future  calling  and  trust  that  his  successor  will 
embrace  and  continue  his  legacy,  especially  in  the 
context  of  climate  change  and  the  much  anticipated 
Paris  Agreement,  which  is  about  to  enter  into  force. 
Should  he  find  that  prospects  are  hard  to  come  by, 
he  should  remember  that  he  has  the  Tupua  dominion 
in Samoa.
from  disaster-risk 
Last  year,  we  agreed  on  a  number  of  global 
agendas,  outcomes  and  agreements.  They  represent 
our  hopes  for  solutions  to  address  the  issues  before 
our  Assembly,  ranging  from  sustainable  development 
to  climate  change, 
resilience 
to  development  financing  and  from  humanitarian 
challenges  to  peace  and  security.  Collectively,  they 
represent  the  totality  of  our  needs  and  priorities, 
including  the  means  to  achieve  them.  Every  issue  is 
important  and  all  are  interconnected.  None  should 
be considered to be subordinate to any another, to be 
marginalized, abandoned or sidelined. They deserve to 
be  implemented  through  an  all-inclusive  approach  to 
ensure that they will be addressed and treated equally. 
Only then can one say with some level of comfort that, 
in the implementation of our new sustainable agenda, 
no one will be left behind. 
Ki-moon’s successor in the task of steering the United 
Nations during the critical implementation phase of our 
inspirational  goals.  It  is  a  mammoth  task,  but  not  an 
impossible one.
As  the  search  for  a  new  Secretary-General  is 
gaining momentum, an appointment appears imminent. 
Yet  in  this  all-important  process,  Samoa,  like  others, 
is  largely  a  bystander  and  an  observer  —  not  by 
choice,  but  by  design.  Like  the  majority  of  Member 
States, Samoa hopes that the current selection practice 
will  be  reformed  soon  to  give  the  wider  membership 
a  more  active  role  in  selecting  who  the  head  of  their 
Organization  should  be.  We  can  only  hope  for  the 
institutionalization of best practices.
Samoa  expects  the  new  Secretary-General  to  be 
independent  and  not  beholden  to  the  priorities  and 
influences of those who will sanction the appointment. 
The  Secretary-General  should  treat  each  and  every 
Member  State  equally  and  accord  the  same  level  of 
attention  and  priority  to  their  issues  and  concerns, 
regardless of their size, political influence or economic 
might.  We  look  forward  to  welcoming  and  working 
closely with the new appointee. We are confident that 
new leadership will usher in a spring of hope that will 
provide a tailored and fit-for-purpose Secretariat for the 
challenging task at hand. Only in true partnership can 
Member States and the Secretariat work in concert to 
accelerate the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development.
We  are  greatly  encouraged  by  the  demonstrable 
commitment  and  political  will  to  transform  the  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change into reality and that it 
is poised to enter into force sometime soon. That is a 
welcome  and  positive  development,  especially  from 
the  perspective  of  all  island  nations,  given  the  extent 
to which impacts of climate change are already being 
felt. When cyclones and natural disasters are happening 
more frequently and with greater intensity in our part 
of  the  world,  as  witnessed  recently  in  Vanuatu  and 
Fiji, the early entry into force of the Paris Agreement 
is  everyone’s  top  priority.  As  vulnerable  small  island 
developing  States,  we  cannot  afford  to  lose  the  hard-
earned gains of many years. We applaud the leadership 
shown  by  Member  States  that  have  ratified  the  Paris 
Agreement  or pledged to do so soon so that it can enter 
into force in record time.
That is the backdrop and the reality against which 
the world is anxiously awaiting the selection of Mr. Ban 
The  science  of  climate  change  is  quite  clear  and 
unequivocal. The political will to accelerate the early 
16-29667
31/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
operationalization of the Paris Agreement is now evident. 
But signing and ratifying the climate agreement are the 
easy  and  early  achievables.  Delivering  on  promises 
and  making  good  on  commitments  and  undertakings 
pledged  are  the  seal  of  true  leadership.  We  need  to 
match the political will with the provision of adequate 
resources that are easily accessible so that the climate 
pledges already submitted to the United Nations can be 
used to facilitate early implementation of all efforts to 
reduce greenhouse-gas emissions without delay.
The coordinated management and utilization of the 
Global Environment Facility, the Adaptation Fund and 
the newly established Green Climate Fund, as well as 
the complementarity offered by other funding sources, 
both  private  and  public,  will  become  all  the  more 
critical  in  the  implementation  phase.  The  challenge 
has been raised for the Green Climate Fund and other 
funding  institutions  to  assist  small  island  developing 
States  in  accessing  resources  through  a  streamlined 
and simplified project cycle and approval process.
is 
change 
climate 
Addressing 
everyone’s 
responsibility,  not  a  monopoly  reserved  solely  for 
Governments.  In  2015,  we  boldly  declared  a  shared 
commitment to stronger global efforts to ensure that all 
people have a right to live in dignity, free from want and 
fear. The Sustainable Development Goals were not just 
visionary goals or mere aspirations; they are designed 
to  provide  for  basic  human  needs  of  all  people  in  an 
achievable manner within our lifetime. Our optimism 
was rooted in a culture of shared responsibility and a 
belief in humankind. Achieving the SDGs will not be 
easy without the support of our development partners. 
Sustainable development requires sustained efforts and 
commitment.  Partnerships  with  the  donor  community 
require mutual trust and understanding.
the transition from the Millennium Development Goals 
to  the  SDGs  and  for  the  eventual  achievement  of  the 
17 new Goals. Our new Agenda highlights partnerships 
as  an  important  part  of  Sustainable  Development 
Goal  17;  indeed,  partnerships  are  the  very  means  of 
implementation. With the SIDS Partnership Framework 
already 
that  all  SIDS 
development  partners  and  United  Nations  agencies 
are  actively  and  constructively  engaged  and  that  the 
platform  continues  to  be  supported,  monitored  and 
reported on regularly.
important 
launched, 
is 
it 
Different  partnership  modalities  will  be  forged 
from time to time, depending on SIDS priorities. There 
can  be  the  traditional  North-South  cooperation,  the 
emerging  South-South  cooperation,  the  well-tested 
triangular  cooperation  or  even  the  novel  SIDS-SIDS 
partnerships.  Importantly,  every  partnership  matters. 
When  one  belongs  to  the  United  Nations  group  with 
special challenges and vulnerabilities in the context of 
sustainable  development,  all  options  should  be  open 
for  consideration.  The  SIDS  Partnership  Framework 
and the Steering Committee provide the platform from 
which new partnerships will emerge through outreach 
initiatives and coordination to ensure that all partners 
involved work together cooperatively and in a cohesive 
manner to meet SIDS development needs.
Oceans  and  seas  have  a  fundamental  role  to  play 
in  contributing  to  global  prosperity,  from  regulating 
climate  to  providing  food  security  for  billions  of 
people.  They  are  an  important  source  of  employment 
and  income  for  many  communities  around  the  world. 
The  sustainable  management  of  oceans  and  seas  is 
therefore critical for economic and social development 
and  poverty  eradication  and 
living 
standards worldwide.
raising 
for 
The  2030  Agenda  integrating  the  three  pillars  of 
sustainable development is not just a preferable option: 
it  is  the  only  option.  Samoa  volunteered  to  report  on 
its  implementation  of  the  new  global  agenda  during 
this  year’s  high-level  political  forum  on  sustainable 
development,  less  than  a  year  after  the  Agenda  was 
adopted. In addition to offering to share its experience 
with the wider United Nations membership, Samoa was 
also eager to benefit and learn from the experiences of 
the other 21 States that were reviewed.
The  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action 
Pathway is an integral part of our wider 2030 Agenda. 
It  represents  a  dedicated  road  map  for  SIDS  to  make 
Yet  the  health  of  the  oceans  is  increasingly 
compromised by the pressures of overfishing, climate 
change, ocean acidification, habitat loss and pollution. 
As the health of the marine ecosystems declines, so too 
does  their  capacity  to  provide  food,  livelihoods  and 
incomes.  These  impacts  disproportionately  affect  our 
island  countries,  which  are  the  most  vulnerable  and 
least able to adapt. And if the trends continue, critical 
thresholds may soon be reached, with potentially dire 
consequences  for  our  islands’  food  security,  incomes 
and livelihoods.
It was against the backdrop of mounting challenges 
and a sense of pessimism in the light of the fragmentation 
32/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
the 
of United Nations discussions on ocean issues that the 
Pacific small island developing States championed the 
push for oceans to be a stand-alone goal in the new set 
of Sustainable Development Goals. SDG 14 is now the 
dedicated Goal on oceans. Last week’s third Our Ocean 
conference,  hosted  by  the  United  States  Government 
and  under  the  leadership  of  Secretary  of  State  John 
Kerry,  and  the  high-level  United  Nations  Conference 
to  Support 
Implementation  of  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  14,  to  be  held  in  June  2017,  are 
welcome efforts at the global level to address some of 
our  emerging  concerns.  The  start  of  the  preparatory 
process  to  develop  an  international,  legally  binding 
instrument under the United Nations Convention on the 
Law  of  the  Sea  on  issues  relating  to  the  conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity 
beyond  areas  of  national  jurisdiction  is  a  positive 
development — a step in the right direction — in which 
the Pacific islands are participating very actively.
The world is a powerless witness to the tragedy of 
people fleeing from their countries to avoid being mired 
in  the  destruction  of  war  and  terrorism.  Obviously,  a 
credible  and  long-term  response  is  needed  to  address 
this grave crisis that has cost so many innocent lives and 
affected so many people. Individual actions by States 
cannot  in  themselves  lead  to  a  solution.  We  must  all 
shoulder the responsibility of collectively meeting the 
threat through concerted multilateral action, consistent 
with the spirit that underlies the Organization. Ideally, 
this effort must start in the Security Council, which is 
entrusted with the responsibility of maintaining world 
peace.
It  is  in  that  conviction  that  Samoa  calls  on  the 
Security  Council  to  address  the  threat  posed  by  the 
recent actions of North Korea to the peace and stability 
of the Asia and Pacific region, if not the whole world. 
Imagine how easily achievable some if not all of the 17 
SDGs would be if all the resources spent on futile wars 
were  instead  diverted  for  the  much-needed  economic 
and  social  activities  that  are  so  necessary  for  the 
creation of a peaceful society.
Our  world  has  enjoyed  peace  and  security  for 
70  years  by  faithfully  observing  and  following  the 
Charter  of  our  Organization.  World  leaders  with  the 
power  and  authority  to  end  wars  have  the  moral  duty 
and  responsibility  to  ensure  that  our  people  continue 
to live in peace and harmony for many more years to 
come.  In  their  reflective  wisdom,  our  leaders  have 
reaffirmed  their  faith  in  a  strengthened  and  reformed 
United  Nations  as  a  vital  multilateral  institution  that 
can  respond  effectively  and  ably  to  the  challenges  of 
the twenty-first century and deliver on the Millennium 
Declaration.
Samoa  supports  an  enlarged  Security  Council  in 
both  membership  categories  to  reflect  contemporary 
geopolitical realities. The case for democratic practices 
and transparency in the Security Council’s procedures 
and  working  methods  in  order  to  facilitate  a  more 
engaged  and  effective  relationship  with  the  General 
Assembly remains a compelling one. On the other hand, 
the Assembly must work hard to regain the confidence 
of the world in its status as the highest representative 
decision-making body of the Organization.
Let  me  now  pay  homage  to  the  selfless  work 
performed by the men and women in the Blue Helmets 
serving  in  various  peacekeeping  operations,  some  of 
whom  have  paid  the  ultimate  sacrifice.  Samoa  will 
continue to provide civilian policemen and policewomen 
as its tangible contribution to such a noble cause.
that 
Mr.  Braun  (Germany),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
Let  us  remember 
the  strength  of  our 
Organization  lies  in  our  numbers  and  our  diverse 
membership.  We  must  rise  above  the  confines  of 
national interests and work to benefit from the diverse 
richness  of  our  membership.  Let  us  capitalize  on  our 
unity in diversity and set aside our differences so that, 
as nations united, we can be the vanguard for the good 
of humankind.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish 
the  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of  the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
thank 
to 
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister 
of the Kingdom of Belgium
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Belgium.
Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Belgium, was escorted to the rostrum.
16-29667
33/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Charles Michel, Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Belgium, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Michel  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):  “None 
of us acting alone can achieve success.” These are the 
words  of  Nelson  Mandela.  We  must  decide  and  act 
together  because  only  together  can  we  come  up  with 
right  responses  to  the  many  challenges  that  we  face. 
Our  responsibility  is  to  offer  every  child  —  boy  or 
girl — the keys to his or her own emancipation. Every 
man,  every  woman,  wherever  they  are  born,  bears 
universal rights. They must be able to learn, to work, to 
care for themselves and to raise their children in peace 
and security. Technological, medical and social progress 
must be shared. It must not belong to a privileged few. 
That must be our commitment and our common goal.
We  know  the  path  by  which  we  can  reach  such  a 
goal. It has been embodied since 1948 in the Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  The  universal  values 
are a beacon that must shed an immutable light on the 
path of humankind. There should be no exception, no 
compromise  and  no  renouncement  of  the  respect  for 
human rights, the rule of law and democracy. 
And yet, let us look at the truth. Equality between 
women and man is not always a fact of life. Freedom 
of  expression  and  freedom  of  the  press  are  too  often 
flouted.  Homophobia,  in  some  countries,  has  even 
been legalized, sometimes even through recent laws. In 
addition,  too  often,  the  rule  of  law  is  a  smokescreen 
and justice is not a remedy but a threat to citizens and 
businesses.
The  African  continent  overflows  with  strengths 
and  talents.  Its  potential  is  immense.  The  histories 
of  Europe  and  Africa  are  intrinsically  linked  and,  of 
course, we share a future. It is vital that we all mobilize 
to encourage and support Africa’s development, first of 
all, through more fairly apportioned economic growth 
and  the  emergence  of  a  middle  class.  I  support  the 
creation of a genuinely equal, win-win partnership with 
Africa, based neither on nostalgia or guilt.
I  firmly  believe,  as  history  has  always  shown, 
that  strengthened  democratic  rights  and  personal 
freedoms  always  go  hand  in  hand  with  development 
and the improvement of people’s living conditions. In 
the past few years, Africa has seen several successful 
democratic transitions, due above all to those citizens 
who  have  participated  in  their  political  and  electoral 
processes  and  thereby  solidified  their  democratic 
institutions and sovereignty.
Unfortunately,  some  citizens  are  still  too  often 
deprived  of  the  fundamental  right  to  elect  those  who 
are  supposed  to  represent  them.  In  the  words  of  John 
F.  Kennedy,  “Those  who  make  peaceful  revolution 
impossible will make violent revolution inevitable.” An 
honest  election  is  a  peaceful  revolution,  because  the 
only legitimate Government is an elected one. Respect 
for  the  requirements  of  the  rule  of  law,  and  therefore 
of a country’s constitution, is the only possible way to 
ensure  stability  and  democratic  harmony.  The  people 
of  Burundi  have  been  denied  that  right,  resulting  in 
discord, division and even oppression. The only solution 
to  that  crisis  is  a  genuinely  inclusive  inter-Burundian 
dialogue conducted under international mediation and 
in accordance with the Arusha Peace Agreement.
It is crucial that elections be held in the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  all  doubts  surrounding 
them removed. I firmly condemn all the violence that 
we  have  witnessed  there,  including  in  the  past  few 
days  in  Kinshasa.  Those  who  exercise  authority  must 
assume their full and individual share of responsibility. 
I want to be very clear here. We respect the principles 
of sovereignty and independence, but on the condition 
that  sovereignty  does  not  become  a  smokescreen  for 
abusing  the  rule  of  law  and  violating  fundamental 
freedoms.  I  appeal  to  the  country’s  political  leaders 
both  in  the  majority  and  the  opposition  to  avoid  an 
escalation. There should be a broad, inclusive dialogue. 
They should be equal to their country and people. They 
should not hide their faces. The only path to stability is 
by establishing, as soon as possible, a definite date for 
holding honest, credible elections.
At this point, we must admit that the situation in Syria 
constitutes  a  continuing  failure  for  the  international 
community. It is a country torn apart by unspeakable 
suffering,  where  massive  numbers  of  refugees  have 
been  uprooted  from  their  homes.  We  cannot  accept 
the notion that the chaos in Syria serves the long-term 
geostrategic  interests  of  Syrians,  or  their  future.  We 
cannot  accept  that  one  man’s  bloody  obduracy  stands 
in the way of a political solution and peace. We support 
Special  Envoy  Staffan  de  Mistura  and  urge  all  the 
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  to  show 
that they have a sense of responsibility. We would also 
like to remind them that there can be no impunity for 
violations of international humanitarian law.
34/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
With  Da’esh,  as  with  Al-Qaida,  Boko  Haram  and 
Al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb, what we are dealing 
with  is  in  fact  a  new  totalitarianism.  At  question  are 
fanaticism and the negation of human life itself. They 
want  to  destroy  freedom.  They  have  chosen  the  path 
of barbarism and terror. Like many others, my country 
suffered  a  tragic  blow  from  them,  last  March.  The 
fight we must wage against terrorism must be a shared 
one,  uncompromising  and 
intransigent.  Naturally, 
we  support  the  Secretary-General’s  Plan  of  Action  to 
Prevent  Violent  Extremism  (A/70/674).  But  we  must 
do  more  and  better,  systematizing  our  exchanges  of 
information and intelligence in order to anticipate and 
prevent such barbaric acts. Freedom must be stronger 
than the shadows.
Around the world, there are 65 million women and 
men  who  are  either  refugees  or  displaced.  Countries 
such  as  Jordan,  Lebanon  and  Turkey  are  on  the  front 
lines as hosts to huge numbers of refugees, with all the 
difficulties  that  entails.  Every  continent  is  involved, 
and we know what the causes are: war, poverty, climate 
change.  Needless  to  say,  peace  and  development  are 
the  best  responses  we  can  make,  and  we  must  also 
ensure the dignity of every human being, with special 
concern for those who are most vulnerable — women 
and children.
Political  dialogue  and  international  negotiations 
are tedious processes, too often slow and strewn with 
obstacles,  with  as  many  steps  backward  as  forward.
That often results in frustration and sometimes even a 
feeling of powerlessness. And yet I believe firmly that 
inclusive, stubborn, tenacious political dialogue is the 
surest way to finding lasting solutions. And we should 
also highlight international diplomacy’s successes. The 
peace  agreement  between  the  Colombian  authorities 
and the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia, 
the  formation  of  a  Government  in  Libya,  the  nuclear 
agreement  with  Iran,  the  diplomatic  rapprochement 
between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  and  the  fight 
against Ebola are all examples of progress and success, 
holding a key to a better and safer life for millions.
How true is the saying, often attributed to Nelson 
Mandela, that a winner is a dreamer who never gives 
up.  I  too  believe  that  courage  and  tenacity  are  key  to 
advancing peace and ensuring a more secure, more just 
world. We should never lose hope or abandon ourselves 
to fatalism. 
The  situation  in  Israel  and  Palestine  today  is  yet 
another  illustration  of  the  urgency  and  importance 
of  reviving  the  political  process  in  order  to  arrive 
at  a  definitive  solution  to  the  conflict.  We  support  a 
two-State  solution,  but  in  the  current  circumstances, 
if no fundamental change is made, we know that this 
prospect may be irretrievably lost.
We  should  put  a  stop  to  the  acts  that  hinder  such 
a  solution.  We  condemn  the  continued  settlement 
activities  in  the  occupied  territories.  At  the  same 
time, we are firmly committed to maintaining Israel’s 
security,  which  must  be  guaranteed.  We  support 
France’s initiative aimed at facilitating the resumption 
of talks. In another essential step, the Palestinians must 
also advance their own dialogue.
International law cannot be reduced to the law of 
the  jungle.  On  the  frontiers  of  Europe,  the  territorial 
integrity of several countries has been violated by one 
country  alone.  It  is  not  acceptable  to  fan  the  flames 
of  conflict  in  order  to  soothe  nostalgic  feelings  of 
grandeur. I urge that we work to find a way out of this 
logic of confrontation with Russia. We have too many 
interests  in  common  to  allow  ourselves  the  luxury  of 
diplomatic paralysis.
In the past few years we have made a lot of progress 
in  reducing  poverty  and  improving  access  to  basic 
health care. But we know very well that there is still so 
much  to  do.  The  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and 
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change have given us 
a  proactive  framework  to  continue  making  progress, 
and we should strive unstintingly to implement them. It 
is our duty to future generations to create a safer world 
that is more respectful of our planet.
international 
technological 
Economic  exchanges  and 
trade 
contribute to worldwide growth and employment. Free 
enterprise, the private finance initiative and economic 
exchanges  are  the  foundations  of  development:  they 
fuel  research, 
innovation  and  even 
medical  progress.  We  must  promote  transparency  in 
the  fiscal  and  banking  sectors  and  fight  all  forms  of 
corruption.  Capitalism  is  not  naturally  virtuous:  just 
and transparent rules are necessary. However, in many 
countries employees are not properly compensated for 
their  work.  Capitalism  is  not  an  end  in  itself,  but  an 
instrument  that  we  must  put  to  use  at  the  service  of 
human development: no more, no less.
The  global  economic  situation  is  constricting 
State  budgets.  Work  is  often  too  heavily  taxed  in 
16-29667
35/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
comparison  to  other  sources  of  revenue.  For  that 
reason, Belgium, along with 10 other countries of the 
European Union, would like to develop a system to tax 
financial  transactions.  We  must  succeed  in  removing 
the technical and political obstacles. It is a question of 
elementary equity.
It  is  an  honour  for  my  country  to  defend  the 
universal principles and values of liberty, tolerance and 
dialogue. We fully respect the traditions, cultures and 
identities of the various peoples of the world, and we 
believe that universal values are the shared foundation 
of a fairer and safer world. We believe in the virtues of 
multilateralism and the persistent search for consensus 
through political dialogue.
Belgium  is  an  active,  stable  and  loyal  member  of 
the  international  community.  For  that  reason,  we  are 
a  candidate  for  a  non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security 
Council  for  the  2019-2020  period.  I  sincerely  hope 
that we can count on the support of a large number of 
countries in that election.
I  also  wish  to  extend  my  gratitude  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  commitment  to  peace 
and security. His intelligence and creativity have meant 
that he leaves behind a solid legacy. I already have high 
hopes for his successor, who will, we hope, ensure the 
proper implementation of the Sustainable Development 
Goals and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
A  politician  concerns  himself  with 
the  next 
election,  whereas  a  statesman  concerns  himself  with 
the future of the next generation. Let us strive to meet 
the  expectations  of  our  citizens,  fulfil  our  universal 
values and act as statesmen.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Belgium for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Belgium, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Anerood Jugnauth, Prime 
Minister, Minister of Defence and Home 
Affairs, Minister of Rodrigues and National 
Development Unit of the Republic of Mauritius
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
a statement by the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence 
and Home Affairs, Minister of Rodrigues and National 
Development Unit of the Republic of Mauritius.
Mr. Anerood Jugnauth, Prime Minister, Minister of 
Defence and Home Affairs, Minister of Rodrigues 
and National Development Unit of the Republic of 
Mauritius, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Anerood  Jugnauth, 
Prime Minister, Minister of Defence and Home Affairs, 
Minister  of  Rodrigues  and  National  Development 
Unit of the Republic of Mauritius, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly.
Mr.  Jugnauth  (Mauritius):  It  pleases  me  at  the 
outset  to  convey  my  heartfelt  congratulations  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  on  his  election  as 
President of the General Assembly at its seventy-first 
session.  I  also  seize  this  opportunity  to  extend  my 
sincere gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon 
for  his  exemplary  stewardship  of  the  Organization  as 
Secretary-General  throughout  the  past  decade.  As  he 
leaves office at the end of this year, I wish him the very 
best in his future endeavours. He will be remembered 
for the rich legacy that he is leaving behind.
Last year, the Assembly adopted the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, setting new benchmarks 
that  will  shape  our  future.  We  acknowledged  the 
importance  of  every  Goal,  every  target  and  every 
indicator as steps towards a better world. Our collective 
response and our solidarity in the face of the challenges 
that will arise as we try to carve out a sustainable world 
will  determine  whether  we  succeed  in  achieving  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Each country 
has its priorities and will need to formulate a unique set 
of actions in order to achieve the universal goals that 
we have set for ourselves.
In  that  context,  the  United  Nations  will  have  an 
important  role  to  play  in  supporting  the  efforts  of 
individual  countries.  In  Mauritius,  we  have  chosen 
to  focus  our  attention  primarily  on  the  eradication  of 
extreme  forms  of  poverty.  My  Government,  with  the 
support of the United Nations Development Programme, 
has  already  undertaken  to  establish  a  social  register 
of  those  living  in  dismal  conditions  and  who  require 
targeted measures and assistance.
As  a  first  unprecedented  measure,  we  have 
introduced in this year’s national budget a subsistence 
allowance  for  the  extreme  poor  based  on  a  threshold 
of 2,720 Mauritian rupees per adult. That threshold is 
40 per cent higher than the World Bank International 
36/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
Extreme Poverty Line of of $3.10 per day per individual, 
calculated on the basis of purchasing power parity.
There  are  yet  many  miles  to  go,  and  we  will 
resolutely pursue our journey towards attaining all of 
the SDGs by working together with the private sector 
and  civil  society.  We  are  fully  committed  to  creating 
a  more  equitable  system,  to  safeguarding  rule  of  law 
and  to  ensuring  equal  access  to  justice  for  all,  as 
encapsulated  in  Goal  16  on  peace  and  justice.  The 
United  Nations  will  be  tested  in  the  effort  to  achieve 
Goal 16 on an international scale, for we are conscious 
of  the  power  of  ‘Might  against  right’.  Nevertheless, 
Mauritius will persevere in its fight for the vulnerable.
For  a  small  island  developing  State  like  ours, 
Goal 13 on climate action and Goal 14 on the oceans 
are of paramount importance for our survival. We are 
pleased  that  we  have  now  crossed  the  first  threshold 
for  the  entry  into  force  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change. The 60 countries that have ratified the 
Agreement are responsible for 47.76 per cent of global 
emissions.  For  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS), 
the early entry into force of the Paris Agreement is of 
paramount importance.
The  tourism  industry  in  SIDS  faces  particular 
challenges  owing  to  the  negative  effects  of  global 
warming.  Taking  measures  to  reverse  that  trend  is 
essential to us in order to preserve marine and coastal 
ecosystems and biodiversity, and to foster the clean and 
sustainable  use  of  our  oceans.  Mauritius  will  ensure 
that the steps it takes to advance its ocean economy are 
in synergy with sustainability principles.
In  that  context,  I  am  pleased  to  inform  the 
Assembly  that  on  1  and  2  September  Mauritius,  with 
the  support  of  the  World  Bank,  hosted  the  African 
Ministerial  Conference  on  Ocean  Economies  and 
Climate  Change.  The  Mauritius  Communiqué,  which 
encapsulates the outcome of the Conference, will serve 
as an input for the Green Climate Fund Africa Dialogue 
to  be  held  next  month  in  Cape  Town.  Mauritius  will 
also contribute to the discussions at the African Union 
Extraordinary Summit on Maritime Security and Safety 
and Development in Africa, scheduled for 15 October in 
Togo, and at the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
from 7 to 18 November, in Morocco.
Let me highlight the fact that during the Conference 
in  Mauritius,  African  Ministers,  along  with  our 
development partners — in particular the World Bank 
Group,  the  African  Development  Bank  and  the  Food 
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations —
agreed that a technical and financial assistance package 
is imperative in order to support ocean economies and 
ensure  the  resilience  of  oceans  and  coastal  areas  to 
climate  change.  We  look  forward  to  the  adoption  of 
such  a  package  at  the  Climate  Change  Conference  in 
Morocco.
Addressing  the  causes  and  effects  of  climate 
change  will  require  robust  determination  and  strong 
political will, as well as extraordinary means, in terms 
of  both  financing  and  technology  transfer.  We  highly 
appreciate  the  pledges  made  by  countries  such  as 
France and Canada to provide financing to fight climate 
change. However, access to those resources needs to be 
simplified and needs to take into account the specific 
circumstances of individual countries.
Two  days  ago,  Mauritius  and  the  Commonwealth 
Secretariat  signed  a  host  country  agreement  for  the 
establishment in Mauritius of a Climate Finance Access 
Hub, as had been decided at the Commonwealth Heads 
of  Government  Meeting  held  in  Malta  in  November 
2015. The Hub will help small island developing States 
and least developed countries to unlock critical climate 
funds.
All our efforts to make our planet sustainable and 
to leave a proud legacy for future generations will be 
in vain if we are unable to maintain peace and security 
in the world and if we do not adhere to the invaluable 
principles of the rule of law and democracy. That is why 
Mauritius vehemently condemns, without reservation, 
the multiple acts of terrorism and violent extremism in 
all their forms.
We  believe 
that  a  reformed  United  Nations, 
including  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council, is essential to the global capacity to respond 
effectively  to  terrorist  threats  and  new  situations.  An 
enlarged and more representative Security Council will 
further strengthen the United Nations role in furthering 
peace and security and the rule of law across the globe. 
Mauritius adheres to the African position on the reform 
of the Security Council, as elaborated in the Ezulwini 
Consensus. We believe that the historical injustice done 
to Africa with regard to representation on the Council 
should be redressed. We also support a dedicated seat 
for SIDS. In addition, Mauritius fully supports India’s 
aspiration to a permanent seat. 
16-29667
37/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
While  the  formal  recognition  of  Palestine  by 
the  United  Nations  as  an  observer  is  a  very  positive 
development, we must exert relentless efforts to work 
towards  the  goal  of  having  two  distinct,  independent, 
secure  and  viable  States,  Palestine  and  Israel,  living 
peacefully side by side.
The firm belief of Mauritius in the Charter of the 
United Nations and in the legitimacy of a fair and just 
multilateral  system  is  unshakable.  Every  nation  has  a 
right to peace, justice, the rule of law and democracy, and 
every human being has the right to basic human rights. 
That is the basis on which the Mauritius Constitution 
is built. Those are also the principles enshrined in the 
Charter. The full realization of those principles will not 
be possible, however, unless complete decolonization is 
accomplished.
It  was  48  years  ago  that  my  country  became  a 
free  and  sovereign  nation,  an  independent  country 
in  the  eyes  of  the  world.  Yet  even  today,  it  is  unable 
to  exercise  its  sovereignty  over  parts  of  its  territory, 
namely, the Chagos Archipelago and Tromelin Island. 
On  8  November  1965,  prior  to  granting  Mauritius  its 
independence on 12 March 1968, the United Kingdom 
illegally  excised  the  Chagos  Archipelago  from  the 
territory  of  Mauritius,  purportedly  in  order  to  create 
the  so-called  British  Indian  Ocean  territory.  That 
excision  was  carried  out  in  violation  of  international 
law  and  General  Assembly  resolutions  1514  (XV)  of 
14 December 1960, 2066 (XX) of 16 December 1965, 
2232 (XXI) of 20 December 1966, and 2357 (XXII) of 
19 December 1967.
Resolution  1514  (XV)  stipulates  that  any  attempt 
aimed at the partial or total disruption of the national 
unity  and  the  territorial  integrity  of  a  country  is 
incompatible  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  It  clearly  prohibits 
the  dismemberment  of  any  colonial  territory  prior  to 
independence. In addition to excising that integral part 
of  our  territory,  the  Mauritians  living  in  the  Chagos 
Archipelago were forcibly evicted from their home and 
moved to the main island of Mauritius in total disregard 
for their human rights. The Government of Mauritius 
is  fully  sensitive  to  their  plight  and  their  rightful 
aspiration to resettle in the Chagos Archipelago, as per 
their legitimate right as citizens of Mauritius. We are 
determined to resettle those who were forcibly evicted 
from  the  Archipelago  upon  its  return  to  the  effective 
control of Mauritius, in full respect of all their rights 
and dignity.
includes 
My  delegation 
the  spokesperson  for 
Mauritians of Chagossian origin. He represents a whole 
community  whose  human  rights  have  been  flouted. 
His  presence  also  testifies  to  the  fact  that  the  issue 
of  sovereignty  and  the  right  of  return  of  Mauritian 
Chagossians to their native lands cannot be dissociated. 
Mauritius  has  consistently  protested  against 
the 
illegal  excision  of  the  Chagos  Archipelago  and  has 
unequivocally maintained that the Chagos Archipelago, 
including the island of Diego Garcia, forms an integral 
part  of  its  territory,  under  both  Mauritian  law  and 
international  law.  Mauritius  has  also  consistently 
pressed  for  the  completion  of  the  decolonization 
process.
For  decades,  Mauritius  has  called  on  the  former 
colonial  Power  to  engage  with  us  in  order  to  find  a 
fair and just solution, but our efforts have been in vain 
so far. Despite the blatant violation of resolution 1514 
(XV), the United Kingdom maintains that its continued 
presence in the Chagos Archipelago is lawful. Yet the 
United Kingdom also tacitly admits the impropriety of 
its action in dismembering the territory of Mauritius, 
as evidenced by the undertaking which it has given on 
various  occasions  that  the  Chagos  Archipelago  will 
be returned to Mauritius when no longer required for 
defence purposes.
That  undertaking  has  been  held  to  be  legally 
binding by the arbitral tribunal established in the case 
brought by Mauritius against the United Kingdom under 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
to  challenge  the  legality  of  the  marine  protected  area 
purportedly established by the United Kingdom around 
the Chagos Archipelago. However, the United Kingdom 
has  not  honoured  that  undertaking  so  far,  It  keeps 
changing the criteria, which rely on the contention that 
the use of the Chagos Archipelago is still required for 
defence purposes.
The arbitral tribunal ruled that the creation of the 
purported  marine  protected  area  around  the  Chagos 
Archipelago  by  the  United  Kingdom  was  in  violation 
of international law. Two of the arbitrators found that 
the excision of the Chagos Archipelago from Mauritius 
in 1965 showed a complete disregard for the territorial 
integrity  of  Mauritius  by  the  United  Kingdom,  in 
violation of the right to self determination, and that the 
United Kingdom is not the coastal State in relation to the 
Chagos Archipelago. That finding was not contradicted 
by the other two members of the arbitral tribunal.
38/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
The  General  Assembly  has  a  direct  institutional 
interest  in  the  matter,  given  the  historic  and  central 
role that it has played in the process of decolonization 
throughout the world. The Assembly has a continuing 
responsibility to complete the process of decolonization, 
including that of Mauritius. That is why, at the request 
of the Government of Mauritius, the General Assembly 
has included in the agenda of its seventy-first session 
item  87,  “Request  for  an  advisory  opinion  of  the 
International Court of Justice on the legal consequences 
of  the  separation  of  the  Chagos  Archipelago  from 
Mauritius in 1965”. An advisory opinion would assist 
the Assembly in its work on decolonization in general 
and  the  decolonization  of  Mauritius  in  particular, 
pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and international law.
I would like to insist on the fact that the decision 
to have recourse to that action was not taken with an 
adversarial  intent.  This  is  not  the  first  time  that  an 
advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice 
is  being  sought  on  such  a  subject.  In  our  view,  the 
procedure represents a legitimate recourse, and it abides 
by the provisions of the Charter and past practice of the 
United Nations. We have noted that the United Kingdom 
has now expressed the wish to engage in dialogue with 
Mauritius in order to sort the matter out by June 2017. 
Mauritius has always believed in true dialogue. We are 
acting in good faith, and we expect the same from our 
interlocutors.
We  believe  that  the  Assembly  has  the  duty  to 
assist in the completion of the decolonization process. 
Mauritius is of the view that an advisory opinion of the 
International Court of Justice in respect of the Chagos 
Archipelago  will  undoubtedly  assist  the  Assembly  in 
the discharge of that responsibility. I wish to heartily 
thank member States of the African Union, the African, 
Caribbean and Pacific Group of States, the Non-Aligned 
Group, and the Group of 77 and China, among others, 
which  have  openly  expressed  their  support  to  my 
country. I know that when it comes to justice, human 
dignity and territorial integrity, the Assembly will live 
up  to  its  mission.  We  concur  with  the  position  of  the 
United Kingdom on a rule-based international system. 
However, we have to be coherent, not only in what we 
say, but also in what we do.
The  decolonization  of  Mauritius  will  also  not  be 
fully resolved until the issue of Tromelin is settled. We 
have had very constructive dialogue with France, and 
we urge France to pursue that dialogue with Mauritius 
for the early resolution of the dispute over the island in 
the continued spirit of friendship that has characterized 
the relationship between our two countries.
(spoke in French)
Territorial  integrity  is  a  principle  of  international 
law.  The  United  Nations  recognizes  it  as  such,  it  is 
therefore our duty to ensure that it is respected.
(spoke in English)
To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  call  on  the  entire 
membership  of  the  United  Nations  to  stand  by  the 
right  to  justice,  to  show  that  a  better  and  safer  world 
is possible only when it is compatible with the rule of 
law, and to show commitment to the principles of the 
Charter.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister 
of  Defence  and  Home  Affairs,  Minister  of  Rodrigues 
and  National  Development  Unit  of  the  Republic  of 
Mauritius for the statement he has just made.
(Russian  Federation) 
(spoke 
Mr. Anerood Jugnauth, Prime Minister, Minister of 
Defence and Home Affairs, Minister of Rodrigues 
and National Development Unit of the Republic of 
Mauritius, was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on his Excellency 
Mr. Sergey Lavrov, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Russian Federation.
Mr.  Lavrov 
in 
Russian):  Last  year,  from  this  same  rostrum,  at 
the  seventieth  anniversary  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  much  was  said  concerning  the  critical 
turning point in world development. The keynote was 
the  recognition  that  humankind  is  moving  from  a 
bipolar and monopolar world order towards multipolar 
and democratic systems of international relations with 
regard to dealing with common challenges and threats, 
which  we  can  overcome  only  through  joint  efforts. 
It  was  rightly  stressed  that  there  is  a  need  to  change 
the  very  philosophy  of  inter-State  communication  by 
avoiding attempts to interfere in the internal affairs of 
States  or  to  impose  development  models  on  countries 
and peoples.
Unfortunately,  despite  having 
acknowledged 
that  fact,  many  Western  countries  continue  to  favour 
their  entrenched 
ideas  of  mentoring,  dominance, 
exclusiveness  and  the  realization  of  self-interests  by 
any  means,  rather  than  promote  just  and  equitable 
16-29667
39/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
cooperation. We see, in the bloodshed in the Middle East 
and North Africa, the consequences of such arrogance 
and their sense of infallibility in their pushing forward 
unilateral and reckless solutions to complex conflicts. 
As a result, the foundations of world stability are being 
destroyed. It is high time to draw the necessary lessons 
and avoid sinking into catastrophe in Syria.
Largely  thanks  to  Russia’s  military  response  and 
assistance at the request of the legitimate Government 
of  Syria,  it  has  been  possible  to  prevent  the  collapse 
of  that  country’s  statehood  and  the  disintegration 
of  the  country  under  the  onslaught  of  terrorists.  Our 
involvement provided the impetus for the establishment 
of the International Syria Support Group, which seeks 
to  start  a  meaningful  political  process  so  that  the 
Syrians  themselves  can  determine  the  future  of  their 
country through an inclusive dialogue among all ethnic 
and  religious  groups.  That  is  uncontestable.  It  has 
been  acknowledged  in  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions  and  is  enshrined  in  the  recent  agreements 
between  Russia  and  the  United  States  as  Co-Chairs 
of  the  International  Syria  Support  Group.  We  thank 
everyone who has supported us in those efforts.
It is now essential to prevent the collapse of those 
agreements and to carry out an unbiased and impartial 
investigation  into  the  incidents  in  Deir  ez-Zor  and 
Aleppo,  which  undermine  the  agreements,  especially 
given  that  there  are  quite  a  few  people  wishing  to 
sabotage  both  the  agreements  and  a  settlement  of 
the  conflict  in  Syria.  It  is  crucial  to  comply  with  the 
demand  of  the  Security  Council  to  separate  what  is 
known as the moderate opposition from the terrorists. 
And, in that regard, a particular responsibility lies with 
the United States and the members of the United States-
led coalition.
If  we  truly  wish  to  resolve  the  Syrian  crisis 
and  the  appalling  humanitarian  situation  there,  the 
Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham,  Jabhat  al-Nusrah 
and  associated  extremist  groups  must  be  suppressed. 
That  is  key  to  reaching  a  cessation  of  hostilities  and 
national  reconciliation.  Today,  it  is  unpardonable  to 
put off intra-Syrian negotiations, as well as to impose 
preconditions to them. Everything must be done in line 
with Security Council resolution 2254 (2015). 
Sabotaging  the  process  —  in  particular  through 
the use of external forces, including their advisers and 
supporters — has a negative impact on the reputation 
of the United Nations and leads us to believe that the 
reason for it lies in an attempt to change the regime.  We 
have seen that sort of zero-sum game in Ukraine, which 
is  very  close  to  us,  in  the  unconstitutional  attempts 
to  overthrow  the  Government  and  now  in  Ukraine’s 
refusal to fulfil the Minsk Agreement of 12 February 
2015. By and large, the attempt to use those conflicts 
to  achieve  self-serving  geopolitical  goals  has  been 
obvious to everyone.
The  latest  meeting  of  the  International  Syria 
Contact Group gives us reason to remain very cautiously 
optimistic. More broadly, it is only through the genuine 
implementation of all agreements that we will be able 
to have, in the Euro-Atlantic area, equal and indivisible 
security  for  mutually  beneficial  cooperation,  as  was 
stated at the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe nearly 20 years ago.
Neither  NATO  nor  the  European  Union  will 
be  able  to  replace  a  truly  collective  unification 
of  efforts  in  the  interest  of  all  without  losers  and 
winners.  And  it  is  also  utterly  unacceptable  to  hold 
athletic  competitions  —  which  have  always  brought 
peoples together, strengthening friendship and mutual 
trust  —  hostage  for  reasons  of  political  ambition. 
Attempts  to  manipulate  the  outcome  of  competitions 
does not honour those who flaunt their allegiance to fair 
competition but actually violate the General Assembly 
principles supporting the independence and autonomy 
of sports. 
In  today’s  world,  we  cannot  be  guided  by  the 
philosophy  of  the  anti-heroes  of  George  Orwell’s 
dystopic  novel  Animal  Farm,  where  all  animals  are 
equal  but  some  are  more  equal  than  others.  In  the 
enlightened twenty-first century, it is simply indecent 
to adopt the role of mentor to everyone else, reserving 
for  oneself  the  right  to  use  doping  in  sports,  launch 
unilateral  adventures  bypassing  the  United  Nations, 
conduct geopolitical experiments that cost millions of 
human lives, engage in the extraterritorial blackmail of 
everyone, including one’s closest allies, while what is 
really intended is to advance one’s own financial profit, 
or even to set the criteria for the greatness of a particular 
country.  All  of  that  is  unworthy  of  the  principles 
of  freedom  and  equality,  on  the  basis  of  which  great 
nations have grown and which are now being used by 
their elites to threaten the entire world.
This  year,  we  mark  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  Nuremberg  Tribunal  decisions.  The  anniversary 
cautions  us  against  forgetting  the  lessons  of  the 
40/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
Second World War and reminds us of the catastrophic 
consequences  of  attempting  to  determine  the  fate  of 
the  world  by  suppressing  the  legitimate  interests  of 
other  States  and  peoples.  The  freedoms  of  expression 
and  peaceful  assembly  should  not  be  used  as  a  cover 
for  condoning  radical  movements  that  profess  a  Nazi 
ideology  and  support  the  glorification  of  the  Nazis 
and their accomplices. The persistence of such vicious 
instincts  dictates  the  need  for  consistent  efforts  to 
place  a  solid  barrier  in  the  way  of  neo-Nazism  and 
revanchism,  strengthen  inter-ethnic  and  intercultural 
accord and rally the young generation around the ideas 
of justice and equality. We invite everyone to take part 
in the nineteenth World Festival of Youth and Students 
in Sochi in October 2017.
Hegemony has no place in the future, if we want it 
to be a just future that gives people the opportunity to 
choose their own ways of development. That entails the 
need to learn to respect one’s partners and respect the 
cultural and civilizational diversity of the modern world. 
We must therefore return to our origins — the norms 
and principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter 
and other instruments of the world Organization. Our 
commitment  to  that  approach  was  reaffirmed  in  the 
Declaration of the Russian Federation and the People’s 
Republic  of  China  on  the  Promotion  of  International 
Law, signed on 25 June. The observance of the principles 
of the sovereign equality of States and non-interference 
in their internal affairs should become a measure of the 
decency  and  legitimacy  of  any  member  of  the  world 
community.
We cannot address the global issues of countering 
international  terrorism,  the  proliferation  of  weapons 
of  mass  destruction  and  other  transboundary  threats 
without  abandoning  the  philosophy  of  exclusiveness 
and  permissiveness.  There  should  be  no  place  for 
double standards in fighting terrorism. Truly universal 
joint  efforts  are  required  to  create  a  broad  counter-
terrorist  front,  as  President  Putin  proposed  from  this 
rostrum  last  year  (see  A/70/PV.13).  The  tragedies  in 
Iraq, Libya, Yemen and Syria have proved the need to 
stop opportunistic attempts to use extremists as a way 
to advance geopolitical intentions. Before it is too late, 
it is necessary to think about the task of preventing the 
proliferation of terrorist and extremist ideology, which 
literally holds youth hostage in various regions of the 
world.  We  are  drafting  a  Security  Council  resolution 
aimed at mobilizing efforts to eliminate such evils. We 
are looking forward to support for our initiative.
The  elimination  of  the  breeding  grounds  for 
radicalism  would  be 
facilitated  significantly  by  
resolving the conflict between Israel and Palestine. It 
is important to overcome the  deep deadlock, which is 
stipulated  in  the  1  July  2016  report  of  the  Quartet  of 
Middle East facilitators. We call for the implementation 
of its recommendations.
We 
are 
also 
seriously 
concerned 
about 
non-proliferation  and  arms  control.  There  have  been 
attempts  to  replace  the  key  objectives  of  maintaining 
strategic  stability  in  all  its  components  with  populist 
slogans of “nuclear zero”. We see a number of countries 
possessing  nuclear  arsenals  not  participating  in  the 
existing  treaties.  The  fundamental  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is being put to a 
serious test. Its parties find it more difficult to speak a 
common language, especially in a situation when certain 
nuclear Powers torpedo any compromises regarding the 
start of the negotiations on the establishment of a zone 
free of weapons of mass destruction and their means of 
delivery in the Middle East.
Russia  has  consistently  supported  the  liberation 
of humankind from the threat of nuclear weapons and 
other types of weapons of mass destruction. However, 
progress  towards  nuclear  disarmament  must  be  made 
in the context of the full consideration of a whole set 
of  factors  that  affect  strategic  stability,  including  the 
impact of unilateral global missile defence systems, the 
development  of  strategic  non-nuclear  strike  weapons, 
the  threat  of  the  placement  of  weapons  in  outer 
space,  the  inability  to  ensure  the  entry  into  force  of 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty,  and  the 
growing imbalance in conventional arms in Europe.
We  note  the  growing  support  for  our  initiative  to 
draft  an  international  convention  for  the  suppression 
of  acts  of  chemical  and  biological  terrorism.  The 
start  of  serious  negotiations  on  that  issue  and  on  the 
Russia-China  draft  treaty  on  the  prevention  of  the 
placement of weapons in outer space would help break 
the  impasse  in  the  key  body  of  the  United  Nations 
multilateral disarmament architecture: the Conference 
on Disarmament. We call for substantial examination of 
our proposals to improve the Convention on Biological 
and Toxin Weapons.
NATO  member  countries  brought  conventional 
arms  control  in  Europe  to  a  deep  deadlock.  Our 
attempts to save it have faced a tough ideology-driven 
counteraction.  All  ideas  to  return  to  that  issue  would 
16-29667
41/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
be  meaningful  only  if  NATO  countries  recognized 
the absolute futility of ultimatums aimed at achieving 
unilateral  advantages.  We  continue  to  be  open  to 
an  equitable  and  mutually  respectful  dialogue  with 
NATO,  including  through  the  Collective  Security 
Treaty Organization.
It  is  necessary  to  work  towards  strengthening 
stability and equal and indivisible security in other parts 
of the world, especially in the Asia-Pacific region. The 
recent actions of North Korea, which violate Security 
Council  resolutions,  must  be  stopped.  We  call  on 
Pyongyang to abandon its nuclear-missile programmes 
and  return  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons regime. However, it is inadmissible to 
use that situation as a pretext for a massive militarization 
of North-East Asia and a deployment of another set of 
United States global missile-defence systems. All sides 
must refrain from the further escalation of tension and 
embark  on  the  way  toward  a  political  and  diplomatic 
settlement  of  the  nuclear  problem  on  the  Korean 
peninsula through the resumption of the talks.
We will continue the dialogue within the framework 
of  the  East  Asia  Summits  on  the  establishment  of 
regional  security  and  cooperation  architecture  in  the 
Asia-Pacific region based on non-bloc foundations. A 
number  of  participating  countries,  including  Russia, 
India, China and Indonesia, have submitted their views 
on that topic. 
We invite the countries of the region to agree on the 
ways to implement the initiative presented by President 
Putin  to  establish  an  extended  Eurasia  Partnership 
with the participation of the Eurasian Economic Union 
countries and other members of the Commonwealth of 
Independent States, as well as the Shanghai Cooperation 
Organisation  (SCO)  and  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  and  other  interested  States.  I  would 
like  to  underline  that  the  aforementioned  initiative  is 
open and fully in line with the earlier plans to create a 
trade bloc between Russia and the European Union and 
is  founded  on  the  basis  of  World  Trade  Organization 
norms  and  principles,  unlike  other  projects  involving 
close  trade  blocs  that  undermine  the  unity  of  global 
trade systems.
We will continue to promote the unification agenda 
in various international forums — the United Nations, 
the forum of the Brazil, Russia, India, China and South 
Africa  group,  the  SCO,  and  the  Group  of  20  (G-20). 
The recent summit in Hangzhou reaffirmed the status 
of the G-20 as a leading global economic and financial 
forum.  We  thank  the  Chinese  chairmanship  for  its 
efforts  to  use  that  representative  platform  effectively 
for the exchange of views on the key issues of the global 
economy and on policies for the subsequent promotion 
of  such  agreements  in  the  universal  format  of  the 
United Nations.
The  signing  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change has become an important event among United 
Nations  activities.  The  communication  of  nationally 
determined  contributions  on  a  voluntary  basis  moves 
us  toward  achieving  the  objectives  of  the  Agreement, 
namely,  to  hold  the  increase  in  the  average  global 
temperature to below 2°C. Clear rules and procedures 
to  implement  the  provisions  of  the  Paris  Agreement, 
bearing 
interests  of  all  countries 
participating  in  the  process,  should  be  developed  in 
order to achieve success. 
in  mind 
the 
to 
In that context, the launch of market and non-market 
mechanisms 
reduce  emissions  of  greenhouse 
gases, as stipulated in article VI of the Agreement, is 
a  priority  matter. In  the  final  analysis,  that  would  be 
of  crucial  importance  in  preventing  violations  of  the 
competitive environment and the transfer of polluting 
industries  and  dirty  production  from  one  country 
to  another,  which  hampers  the  achievement  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The  United  Nations  was  established  to  save 
succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge  of  war  and 
develop  equitable  international  cooperation.  Today, 
that  covers  all  areas  of  international  life,  including 
communication,  political  and  military  aspects  of 
security,  climate  protection,  conflict  settlement, 
peacekeeping,  ensuring  human  rights  and  freedoms, 
sustainable  development, 
information 
technology,  and  efforts  to  combat  terrorism,  drug-
trafficking  and  corruption.  Furthermore,  it  includes 
issues  ranging  from  the  eradication  of  infectious 
diseases 
the  social  responsibility  of 
businesses  and  fostering  scientific  and  technological 
progress.
to  ensuring 
regulating 
In  addition,  of  course,  the  United  Nations  must 
promote civil dialogue, thereby strengthening pluralism, 
cultures  and  traditions  and  serving  as  a  catalyst  for 
progress  in  science  and  the  arts.  In  essence,  we  are 
talking  about  preserving  humanity  in  all  of  its  riches 
and diversity. That goal should constitute the basis for 
our collective efforts. It should become an imperative 
42/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
for global development and an incentive for improving 
global  governance  and  the  true  democratization  of 
international relations.
I  would  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, who has made enormous 
efforts, in his position as Secretary-General, to renew 
the United Nations through timely actions. We believe 
that  the  new  Secretary-General  will  also  make  a 
valuable contribution.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Edward Nalbandian, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Armenia.
Mr.  Nalbandian  (Armenia)  (spoke  in  French): 
I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Peter  Thomson, 
President of the General Assembly at this session, and 
to wish him complete success. I thank his predecessor, 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  and  take  this  opportunity  to 
express our high appreciation to Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon for his able leadership.
Two days ago, Armenia celebrated the twenty-fifth 
anniversary of its independence. During that short period 
of time, much has been done to strengthen democratic 
institutions,  the  rule  of  law  and  good  governance,  to 
protect human rights and to advance economic reforms. 
We have been able to achieve significant progress also 
with regard to the socioeconomic development agenda. 
However, challenges still remain. The needs of the 
socially  most  vulnerable  groups  have  been  placed  at 
the centre of Armenia’s forward-looking development 
strategy for 2014-2025. Likewise, our Government has 
launched a national plan of action on the protection of 
human  rights.  In  that  respect,  Armenia  continues  to 
work  actively  with  all  United  Nations  human  rights 
mechanisms, including the special procedures and the 
treaty bodies.
reform 
Our  new  constitutional 
followed  an 
inclusive process of broad public discussions aimed at 
implementing a new and improved governance system 
with increased transparency and accountability. It was 
approved  in  a  nationwide  referendum  last  December 
and welcomed by relevant international bodies.
(spoke in English)
The  United  Nations  has  a  considerable  role  to 
play  in  changing  the  environment,  which  has  been 
conducive 
racial  discrimination, 
xenophobia,  violent  extremism  and  terrorism.  On 
intolerance, 
to 
numerous  occasions  Armenia  has  condemned  the 
crimes committed by Da’esh and other terrorist groups 
that  threaten  the  peoples  of  the  region  and  beyond. 
The  war  in  Syria  has  had  a  devastating  impact  on  its 
civilian  population,  including  national  and  religious 
minorities  who  face  existential  threats  in  the  form  of 
identity-based  crimes.  The  violence  has  not  bypassed 
Syrian-Armenians, many of whom have lost their lives. 
Armenian  settlements,  churches,  schools  and  cultural 
institutions have been destroyed.
One hundred years ago, Armenian refugees found 
shelter  in  many  Arab  countries  after  the  Armenian 
genocide.  Today,  thousands  of  Armenians,  together 
with  other  peoples  of  the  Middle  East,  have  again 
been  forced  to  flee  their  homes.  From  Syria,  more 
than 20,000 have found refuge in Armenia. We know, 
therefore,  what  it  means  to  be  a  refugee  and  to  host 
refugees. The Government of Armenia has undertaken 
considerable efforts to assist the refugees and facilitate 
their integration. 
We believe that wider international cooperation is 
needed to adequately address the challenges posed by 
the massive displacements. The full implementation of 
the  commitments  made  in  the  New  York  Declaration 
for Refugees and Migrants (resolution 71/1), adopted a 
few days ago by the Assembly, stands as an important 
milestone in that regard.
We  would  like  to  stress  the  significance  of 
addressing  the  root  causes  of  large  movements  of 
people  by  working  for  the  prevention  of  crimes 
against  humanity  and  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes  and  lasting  political  solutions.  Armenia  has 
been  continuously  supporting  and  contributing  to  the 
elaboration  of  prevention  mechanisms,  in  particular 
by regularly initiating resolutions on the prevention of 
genocide in the Human Rights Council.
As a nation that experienced the first genocide of 
the twentieth century and continues to face the denial 
of  that  horror,  Armenia  reaffirms  its  strong  support 
for  the  fight  against  impunity  for  genocide.  The  year 
2016 marks the first anniversary of resolution 69/323, 
initiated by Armenia, proclaiming 9 December as the 
International  Day  of  Commemoration  and  Dignity 
of  the  Victims  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide  and  of  the 
Prevention of this Crime.
As  the  threat  of  violence  continues  to  spread  in 
various parts of the world, it is crucial to make our joint 
efforts  to  achieve  peace  and  security  more  effective. 
16-29667
43/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
Based on that understanding, Armenia has participated 
in  a  number  of  United  Nations  actions  and  United 
Nations-mandated  peace  operations, 
thus  actively 
contributing  in  the  most  direct  way  to  the  building 
of  international  peace  and  security.  As  the  Assistant 
Secretary-General  for  Peacekeeping  Operations  noted 
recently, “Armenia’s support is important not only for 
its contribution but also for Armenian history and the 
challenges overcome during it”. Indeed, history teaches 
us that the security of one is closely connected to that 
of others.
This  year  marks  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  of  the  International  Covenants  on  Human 
Rights,  as  well  as  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the 
Declaration  on  the  Right  to  Development.  The  latter 
affirms
“the right of peoples to self-determination, by virtue 
of  which  they  have  the  right  freely  to  determine 
their political status and to pursue their economic, 
(resolution 
social  and  cultural  development” 
41/128, annex, sixth preambular paragraph).
It is well known that the Charter of the United Nations 
underlines respect for the principles of the equal rights 
and the self-determination of peoples as a purpose of 
the Organization.
Aggressive  military  responses  on  the  part  of 
States to the peaceful aspirations of people to exercise 
their  right  to  self-determination  only  legitimize  such 
aspirations and deprives the aggressor of any claim to 
authority over the people. The Independent Expert on the 
promotion of a democratic and equitable international 
order rightly pointed out that self-determination should 
not  be  viewed  as  a  source  of  conflict,  but  rather  that 
conflict is a consequence of the violation of the right to 
self-determination.
Azerbaijan  stubbornly  refuses  to  recognize  the 
right  of  the  people  of  Nagorno  Karabakh  to  self-
determination. As part of Azerbaijan’s policy of ethnic 
cleansing and aggression, starting in the late 1980s and 
the early 1990s, Armenians have been massacred and 
expelled from their homes. Nobel Peace Prize winner 
Andrei Sakharov called those actions a threat of a new 
genocide against the Armenian people.
This year again, in early April, in blatant violation of 
the ceasefire agreement, Azerbaijan unleashed another 
large-scale  aggression  against  Nagorno  Karabakh, 
indiscriminately  targeting  civilian  infrastructure  and 
the population. Among the victims were a 12-year-old 
boy  and  92-year-old  woman.  Three  captured  soldiers 
of the Nagorno Karabakh armed forces were beheaded 
in  Da’esh  style,  which  was  subsequently  shown  in 
towns  and  villages  and  publicized  through  the  social 
media. Furthermore, the leader of Azerbaijan publicly 
decorated  the  perpetrators  of  that  crime.  During 
the  exchange  of  the  bodies  of  the  deceased  between 
Nagorno Karabakh and Azerbaijan, which was mediated 
by  the  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross,  it 
was  registered  that  the  corpses  transferred  from  the 
Azerbaijani  side  bore  undeniable  signs  of  torture  and 
were  mutilated.  Such  despicable  atrocities  go  beyond 
the  basic  norms  of  the  civilized  world  and  constitute 
gross violations of international humanitarian law.
The  aggression  in  April  severely  undermined  the 
peace process. To restore trust and work for a peaceful 
resolution  of  the  conflict,  measures  should  be  taken 
to  prevent  the  use  of  force  and  to  create  conditions 
conducive  to  the  advancement  of  the  peace  process. 
That  was  the  main  aim  of  two  summit  meetings  on 
Nagorno  Karabakh,  held  in  Vienna  in  May  and  St. 
Petersburg in June. It is imperative to implement what 
was particularly emphasized and agreed upon at those 
meetings: first, the full adherence to the 1994 and 1995 
trilateral ceasefire agreements, which do not have time 
limitations;  secondly,  the  creation  of  a  mechanism  to 
investigate ceasefire violations; thirdly, the expansion 
of  the  capacity  of  the  Personal  Representative  of  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE)  Chairperson-in-Office.  Against  all  odds  the 
people of Nagorno Karabakh have been able to defend 
themselves and create a free and democratic society.
together 
with 
Armenia, 
the  mediator 
countries  —  Russia,  the  United  States  and  France, 
which are the co-Chairs of the OSCE Minsk Group —
will continue its efforts towards an exclusively peaceful 
resolution  of  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  conflict.  The 
co-Chairs have proposed a rather civilized formula for 
the settlement — ballots instead of bullets. The proposal 
outlined  by  the  Presidents  of  the  co-Chair  countries 
stipulates  the  future  determination  of  the  final  legal 
status of Nagorno Karabakh through a legally binding 
expression of the will of its population. The mentality 
that  supports  medieval  barbarism,  as  witnessed  in 
April, has difficulty accepting the civilized approaches 
of the modern world.
Armenia  welcomes  the  integration  of  the  Vienna 
Programme  of  Action  for  the  Landlocked  Developing 
44/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
Countries  for  the  Decade  2014-2024  into  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  as  an  important 
step to promote sustainable and inclusive development. 
The  Government  of  Armenia  has  adopted  a  national 
strategy to ensure the effective implementation of the 
Vienna Programme of Action and make it a mainstream 
part of our policies. 
We  deplore  policies 
that  stipulate  unilateral 
economic  measures  as  an  instrument  of  political 
pressure. Agenda 2030 reconfirms, once again, that such 
measures  are  detrimental  to  sustainable  development. 
The unilateral land blockade of Armenia by Turkey is 
a  gross  violation  of  international  law.  It  continues  to 
severely hamper regional transit communication routes, 
economic cooperation and integration.
Armenia  welcomes  the  central  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  the  implementation  of  the  comprehensive 
new  2030  Agenda.  We  do  not  underestimate  the 
challenges facing all of us, and similarly, we should not 
downplay the opportunities. With the more than seven 
decades of the United Nations existence, we must show 
the same insight and vision to safeguard the future of 
the  Organization  and  ensure  the  best  possible  future 
for the peoples of the United Nations. Armenia is fully 
committed to those goals.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Frank-Walter  Steinmeier,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany.
Mr.  Steinmeier  (Germany)  (spoke  in  German; 
interpretation  provided  by  delegation):  For  far  too 
many  people,  the  world  has  become  an  unsafe  place. 
The  challenges  confronting  us  seem  immense,  and 
at  times  it  seems  all  but  hopeless  to  find  solutions  to 
the many conflicts around us. However, all of us here, 
as  politicians,  have  a  choice.  The  choice  is  between 
resignation  and  engagement  in  those  crises,  between 
isolation  and  multilateral  cooperation,  and  between 
national navel-gazing and shared responsibility for one 
another.
We  have 
the  choice.  Do  we  relinquish 
the 
civilizational  progress  achieved  by 
the  founding 
generation of the United Nations after experiencing two 
world wars and turn back to the nineteenth century? Do 
we return to the era of fragile, purpose-oriented power 
alliances and power struggles among nation States? Or 
do we move forward and work together to master the 
challenges of the twenty-first century, whether they be 
migration, climate change or terrorism?
In  light  of  the  dramatic  meetings  on  Syria  this 
week,  I  would  like  to  add  that  we  can  also  choose 
whether to put our faith in the power of diplomacy, or to 
shrug our shoulders in resignation at the many conflicts 
around us — Syria, Libya, Yemen and eastern Ukraine. 
Do  we  give  up  and  allow  those  conflicts  to  escalate 
even further? Or do we live up to our responsibility and 
continue working on solutions despite all the setbacks? 
We have the choice.
In Europe, too, we are faced with a choice, now that 
the United Kingdom has made its choice and has opted 
to leave the European Union. Do we now fight to hold 
Europe together? Or do we allow that wonderful peace 
and  social  project  to  fall  apart  again,  or  even  allow 
populists to drive us apart? We have the choice. 
In  Asia,  too,  where  new  Powers  are  jostling  for 
influence, there is also a choice. Do they believe that 
their future will depend solely on their own strength? 
Or  does  the  key  to  a  bright  future  and  cooperative 
security  lie  in  their  involvement  in  the  international 
order? Our Asian partners have the choice.
The  United  States  is  also  faced  with  a  choice, 
in  six  weeks’  time.  There,  too,  the  choice  is  about  a 
supposedly  possible  withdrawal  from  a  crisis-ridden 
world, which some are calling for, or cooperation with 
international  partners  to  solve  the  world’s  problems. 
That choice is important for all of us. The choice before 
us  is  withdrawal,  resignation  and  going  it  alone,  or 
shared responsibility for a better future.
Whether  we  succeed  in  finding  durable  solutions 
to  the  major  pressing  challenges  we  face  depends  on 
the  decision  we  make  on  that  choice.  I  am  talking  in 
particular  now  about  the  Syrian  crisis  and  the  issue 
of refugees and migration. However, far beyond acute 
crisis management, that also presents us with a choice 
on which direction our world takes, and in what kind of 
international order we will live together in the future.
The objective and focus of German foreign policy 
are clear — we want to shape a just and peaceful world, 
and we want to shape it together with all partners who 
share that goal. The United Nations is and will remain 
our  central  forum  for  that.  In  the  context  of  all  the 
crisis  meetings,  it  gives  me  hope  that  we,  here  in  the 
United Nations, have made an important choice about 
the direction we want to take, that is, the right choice.
Our  choice  has  also  been  for  unity,  sustainability 
and transformation with the document that we adopted 
16-29667
45/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
last year: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 
The  2030  Agenda  is  a  global  compact  on  the  world’s 
future, the focal point, the point of convergence for our 
joint  actions.  Our  policies  should  be  based  on  human 
rights,  the  rule  of  law  and  the  fight  against  poverty 
and discrimination. We will also put global justice on 
the  agenda  of  the  Group  of  20  when  we  assume  the 
chairmanship in 2017.
I wish to express our thanks to Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon,  who  initiated  the  2030  Agenda.  We 
would also like to thank him for his commitment to the 
historic Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which the 
German Parliament ratified earlier this week. Where if 
not here, at the United Nations, could we demonstrate 
that, solely through cooperation, we can move forward 
towards  justice  and  sustainability,  towards  peace 
and  security.  The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
international law provide the foundation for that.
North  Korea  has,  in  a  blatant  manner,  repeatedly 
violated  central  principles  of  international  law.  We 
condemn  in  the  strongest  possible  terms  the  latest 
nuclear  test  carried  out  by  North  Korea.  We  cannot 
accept any country jeopardizing security in that region.
The  United  Nations  provides  the  tools  we  need 
for  our  work  here  in  New  York  and  in  crisis-stricken 
regions.  In  Libya  and  Yemen,  we  are  supporting  the 
tireless efforts of the Special Envoys of the Secretary-
General to find political solutions. In Syria, it is clear 
that without the dedicated work of the United Nations 
and  its  experts,  there  would  be  even  more  suffering 
today and there would be even less hope for a solution. 
The hope raised a week ago by the ceasefire has again 
vanished, following the deadly, cynical and despicable 
attack on humanitarian aid workers a few days ago.
Today the situation could not be more serious. We 
are  again  faced  with  the  choice.  Will  we  succeed  in 
taking the first step towards a ceasefire, which would 
finally  make  humanitarian  access  possible  so  that 
people can receive what they need to survive? To that 
end, I have proposed an agreement on banning military 
flights during a period of several days. Al-Assad’s Air 
Force must cease its attacks. I believe that Moscow also 
has a responsibility to help bring that about. If we do 
not succeed, then all efforts to find a political solution 
to Syria will be lost in a hail of bombs. For that reason 
alone,  although  unsuccessful  yesterday,  our  efforts  in 
the  International  Syria  Support  Group  for  a  ceasefire 
must continue.
While the international community works hard in 
New York to bring about a ceasefire, Al-Assad continues 
to bomb Aleppo to bits, which again demonstrates that 
the Al-Assad regime cannot and must not be allowed to 
determine Syria’s future. However, we also cannot allow 
the conflict to be used by nearby or distant Powers to 
redraw the political and ethnic map of the Middle East. 
Syria’s  external  borders  must  remain,  and  we  should 
not  allow  new  internal  borders  to  be  defined.  The 
parties in the country and the region can, and indeed 
should,  declare  their  legitimate  interests.  However,  a 
fair balance of those interests must be found. Insisting 
on one of the many absolute truths will not bring peace 
any closer. I reiterate and want to be quite clear: there 
will be no winners in that war.
In the face of such suffering, we have an obligation 
to  try  right  now  to  alleviate  the  plight  of  the  Syrian 
people. Currently, Germany is one of the biggest donors 
of humanitarian aid. To date, we have made available 
approximately $2.5 billion for Syria and its neighbours. 
We have been particularly active in helping to stabilize 
areas in Iraq that have been liberated from the Islamic 
State. In Tikrit, we joined forces with United Nations 
agencies to rebuild schools and wells, so that as many 
as 90 per cent of those who have fled could return. In 
Ramadi,  we  are  concentrating  on  unexploded  mine 
clearance.  In  the  case  of  Mosul,  we  are  currently 
preparing  to  help  local  forces  to  begin  rebuilding 
the  city,  which  we  hope  will  be  liberated  soon.  At 
the  same  time,  we  are  promoting  access  to  education 
and  the  labour  market  in  the  countries  neighbouring  
Syria  —  Turkey,  Jordan  and  Lebanon  —  so  that  the 
people can have a future in their own region.
In 2015 in Germany, we welcomed and gave shelter 
to more than 1 million people. We have begun training 
refugees so that they acquire the skills needed to rebuild 
their cities. The objective is to ensure that the belief in 
a future at home does not remain a mere hope but can 
become a reality. 
Our response to refugee movements and migration 
must  be  a  joint,  global  task  in  full  awareness  of  the 
future. Clearly, the challenge will become even bigger if 
conflicts, hardship and poverty persist. That is why we 
must tackle the root causes together. Moreover, we must 
improve  the  architectural  framework  of  international 
efforts  designed  to  deal  with  refugee  movements  and 
migration.  As  co-Chair,  along  with  Morocco,  of  the 
Global Forum on Migration and Development, we want 
to  play  our  part  during  the  next  two  years.  Through 
46/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
the  Berlin  Round  Table  on  Refugees  and  Migration, 
we  are  focusing  on  improving  the  structures  of 
humanitarian assistance.
The  General  Assembly’s  high-level  plenary 
meeting  on  addressing  large  movements  of  refugees 
and  migrants,  held  on  19  September,  took  important 
decisions on still more joint actions. We wish to convey 
our  thanks  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and 
United States President Barack Obama for hosting the 
20 September Leaders’ Summit on Refugees, alongside 
co-hosts  Canada,  Ethiopia,  Germany,  Jordan,  Mexico 
and Sweden.
We  also  need 
to  revitalize  engagement  and 
cooperation in Europe as well. New rifts have emerged 
on  our  continent  following  Russia’s  annexation  of 
Crimea, in violation of international law and the conflict 
in eastern Ukraine. The security situation has changed, 
and we need to react. First, we need to strengthen our 
readiness  to  defend  ourselves.  At  the  same  time,  we 
must  also  be  engaged.  Together  with  France,  Russia 
and  Ukraine,  we  have  been  working  tirelessly  in  the 
Normandy format on a political solution to the Ukraine 
conflict.  Progress  has  finally  been  achieved  with  the 
Trilateral Contact Group’s framework resolution on the 
disengagement of forces, which was ratified this week. 
A  ceasefire  is  not  all  that  is  needed  for  the  Package 
of  Measures  for  the  Implementation  of  the  Minsk 
Agreements, but we cannot make any political headway 
if the weapons are not silenced.
However,  there  is  much  more  at  stake.  We  must 
be  aware  that  genuine  and  lasting  security  in  Europe 
can only take the form of cooperative security. That is 
why, as I have proposed, we must pay more attention 
to arms control in Europe. Such efforts are not meant 
to substitute for obligations not yet met. Rather, I have 
in  mind  new  challenges,  new  technologies  and  new 
threats, many of which have not even been mentioned 
in  existing  documents.  Our  goal  is  to  enable  security 
for everyone.
As  we  seek  to  strengthen  the  dialogue  between 
East  and  West,  especially  in  these  difficult  times,  we 
have  assumed  the  chairmanship  of  the  Organization 
for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  this 
year. It is, by the way, the sole organization in which 
East and West continue to work together on a regular 
basis. We need the United Nations, as well as regional 
institutions such as the African Union and the OSCE, in 
order to ensure that diverging interests and differences 
of opinion do not turn into lasting alienation, thereby 
preparing the ground for even more new conflicts.
Our own history reminds us Germans that we must 
do everything we can to overcome the rifts in Europe. 
When  Willy  Brandt,  then  Chancellor  of  the  Federal 
Republic of Germany, spoke in the General Assembly 
on 26 September 1973, after the flags of the two parts 
of Germany had been hoisted in front of this building, 
he said: 
“In  a  world  in  which  we  are  all  increasingly 
dependent  on  each  other,  a  policy  for  peace  must 
not  stop  at  our  own  doorstep.”  (A/PV.2128,  para. 
33)
This  is  all  the  more  true  today  in  our  interconnected 
world than it was back then. And it is all the more true 
for  a  large  and  prosperous  country  that  our  partners, 
rightly, perceive should play a role commensurate to its 
size and capabilities. It is for that reason that Germany 
is  applying  for  a  non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security 
Council  for 
justice, 
innovation  and  partnership  —  those  are  our  goals. 
They are the leitmotif of our candidature. and we will 
be guided by them.
the  2019-2020 
term.  Peace, 
Despite crises and conflicts, I still firmly believe 
that the future lies in our hands. We will make the world 
a better place if we assume responsibility together — not 
against but with one another and, above all, if we work 
for those who follow us as the next generation. We have 
the choice. But we have to decide!
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Ri  Yong  Ho,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Mr.  Ri  Yong  Ho(Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea)  (spoke  in  Korean;  English  text  provided  by 
the  delegation):  First  of  all,  allow  me  to  congratulate 
Mr. Peter Thomson on his election as President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  I  hope 
that  his  able  stewardship  will  lead  this  session  to  a 
successful outcome. I also hope that this session, under 
the theme “Sustainable Development Goals: a universal 
push to transform our world”, will make a meaningful 
contribution  to  promoting  the  peaceful  development 
and prosperity of all countries.
Peace  and  security  are  the  permanent  themes  of 
the  United  Nations.  The  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  presuppose  peace  and  security.  Even  at  this 
very  moment,  when  the  United  Nations  aspires  to  a 
16-29667
47/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
transformation  through  sustainable  development,  the 
world  is  besieged  with  the  wild  wind  of  terrorism, 
an  unprecedented  war-driven  refugee  crisis  and  an 
increasing number of global hot spots.
The Korean peninsula has now been turned into the 
world’s most dangerous hot spot and could even ignite 
a nuclear war. A peaceful environment is the foremost 
prerequisite  for  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea, which has embarked on the implementation of 
its national five-year economic development strategy to 
re-energize the overall economy and lay the foundation 
for its sustainable development.
As  the  international  community  witnesses  every 
year,  the  Korean  peninsula  is  often  engulfed  in  a 
situation  that  can  spiral  out  of  control.  Its  root  cause 
lies squarely with the United States of America, which 
refuses  to  abandon  its  hostile  policy  towards  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  but  instead 
holds  aggressive  war  exercises,  one  after  another,  in 
and around the Korean peninsula. The large-scale joint 
military  exercises  conducted  by  the  United  States  in 
March  and  April  and  in  August  and  September  this 
year were extremely provocative and massive military 
manoeuvres.  They  involved  over  500,000  troops  and 
strategic assets that included strategic nuclear bombers 
and  strategic  nuclear  submarines.  Their  scale  is  more 
than large enough to wage an all-out war.
Such  nuclear  war  exercises  are  extremely 
offensive and aggressive, as they mainly include high-
precision  strikes,  commando  infiltration,  landing  and 
pre-emptive  nuclear  strikes  aimed  at  the  decapitation 
of the leadership of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  and  the  occupation  of  Pyongyang.  Nowhere 
in  the  world  today  are  such  large-scale  joint  military 
exercises  as 
the  Korean  peninsula 
conducted,  nor  do  war  games  of  such  a  provocative 
and  offensive  nature  take  place.  Never  have  such 
undisguised military threats and extremely dangerous 
and aggressive exercises occurred right under the nose 
of an adversary.
those  around 
No proper institutional peace mechanism has been 
established  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  The  war  of  the 
1950s has not ended, but a temporary armistice remains 
in force. That means that neither side feels the need to 
make a declaration of war if it wants to begin fighting 
again.  It  is  a  place  where  provocative  military  acts 
such  as  large-scale  joint  military  exercises  can  easily 
infuriate the other side, provoking a response.
Any  incident  could  easily  lead  to  a  conflict  and 
escalate  into  all-out  war.  Concerns  are  increasingly 
being voiced about the aggravation of tensions by these 
large-scale joint military exercises. We hear concerns 
being  expressed  in  neighbouring  countries,  many 
countries  of  the  region  and  even  the  United  States  of 
America  and  South  Korea.  The  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  has  made  every  possible  effort  to 
prevent  an  armed  conflict  and  its  escalation,  while 
taking  the  necessary  self-defensive  countermeasures, 
whenever  the  United  States  and  South  Korea  conduct 
provocative, aggressive joint military exercises.
The  respected  leader  Comrade  Kim  Jong  Un, 
Chairman  of 
the  Workers’  Party  of  Korea  and 
Chairman  of  the  State  Affairs  Commission  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  noted  at  the 
seventh  Congress  of  the  Party  that  the  United  States 
should abandon its anachronistic hostile policy towards 
our country, replace the Korean Armistice Agreement 
with a peace agreement and withdraw its armed forces 
and war equipment from South Korea. He also clarified 
that dialogue and negotiations were needed, above all, 
between  the  military  authorities  of  North  and  South 
Korea so as to ensure peace on the Korean peninsula 
and achieve national reunification. But there has been 
no positive response, and the large-scale joint military 
exercises  targeting  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea have continued. And they are becoming more 
and more provocative and aggressive.
Currently  on 
the 
scene, 
principles 
international 
recognized 
the 
fundamental,  widely 
of 
international relations are being openly ignored by the 
United States-led imperialist forces in their outrageous 
schemes for domination and intervention, while justice 
is  being  criminalized  and  transformed  into  injustice, 
depending on the interests of the imperialist Powers. 
To safeguard international peace and security and 
achieve sustainable development, genuine international 
justice  must  be  realized  without  fail.  Article  1  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations refers to bringing about
“by  peaceful  means,  and  in  conformity  with 
the  principles  of  justice  and  international  law, 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes 
or  situations  which  might  lead  to  a  breach  of 
the peace”.
However,  when  the  Security  Council    deals  with  the 
issue  of  the  Korean  peninsula,  it  now  covers  up  the 
high-handedness and arbitrariness of the United States 
48/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
of America in the name of the United Nations, ignoring 
justice and international law.
The  Government  of 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, in accordance with Articles 34 and 
35  of  the  Charter,  has  on  several  occasions  requested 
the Security Council to hold an emergency meeting on 
the threat to international peace and security posed by 
the large-scale United States joint military exercises on 
the Korean peninsula. This year alone, the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea made such requests to the 
Security  Council  in  March  and  in  August,  but  the 
Council rejected them every time. On the other hand, 
the  Security  Council  takes  issue  with  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  rightful  self-defence 
measures  to  safeguard  its  sovereignty,  dignity  and 
national security.
The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea had no 
other  choice  but  to  go  nuclear  after  doing  everything 
possible to defend its national security from the constant 
United States nuclear threat, which has persisted since 
the  1950s.  Our  decision  to  strengthen  our  nuclear 
armament is a rightful self-defence measure to protect 
ourselves from constant United States nuclear threats. 
Nevertheless, the Security Council, as recently as in its 
resolution  2270  (2016),  declared  that  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  ongoing  nuclear  and 
ballistic  missile-related  activities  pose  a  clear  threat 
to international peace and security. That resolution is 
the  latest  fabrication  against  my  country.  As  for  the 
legal basis for the resolution, neither the Charter of the 
United Nations nor any other international convention 
has  a  provision  stipulating  that  nuclear  and  ballistic 
missile  activity  represents  a  threat  to  international 
peace and security.
In practice, countries that began the same activities 
long before the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
have  never  been  called  into  question  in  the  Security 
Council. One cannot help but ask on what grounds and 
with  what  authority  did  the  Security  Council  adopt 
resolution 2270 (2016), which prohibits the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  from  engaging  in  nuclear 
and ballistic missile activities. If the Council has such 
grounds and authority, why does it not adopt resolutions 
against  countries 
the  same  nuclear 
and  ballistic  rocket  tests?  We  submitted  an  official 
questionnaire to the Secretariat of the United Nations 
in this regard, but nearly four months have elapsed and 
the Secretariat has not responded.
that  conduct 
Yet, the reason is clear. It is because the Security 
Council  is  the  place  where  guilt  or  innocence  is 
decided on the basis not of justice, but of whether one 
has the veto power. The United States of America does 
not  have  the  moral  authority  to  force  United  Nations 
Member  States  to  implement  this  kind  of  undeserved 
resolution, and Member States have no moral obligation 
to implement these unfair and unjust resolutions.
Last  week,  the  17th  Summit  of  the  Movement 
of  Non-Aligned  Countries  (NAM)  was  held  on  the 
beautiful  island  of  Margarita  in  Venezuela.  In  the 
final  document,  the  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
expressed concern that
“In recent years, the Security Council has been too 
quick to threaten or authorize enforcement action 
in  some  cases  while  being  silent  and  inactive  in 
others”.
They underlined that
“Sanctions should be imposed only when a threat 
to  international  peace  and  security  or  an  act  of 
aggression  takes  place,  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
In the Final Declaration of the Margarita Summit, 
the Heads of State and Government
“expressed their condemnation at the promulgation 
and  application  of  unilateral  coercive  measures 
against countries of the Movement, in violation of 
the Charter of the United Nations and international 
law, particularly the principles of non-intervention, 
self-determination and independence of States”.
This is the common position of the NAM countries that 
make  up  nearly  two  thirds  of  the  membership  of  the 
United Nations. This is the true voice of the international 
community. International justice never comes by itself; 
it can be achieved only when the voice of independent 
countries against imperialism grows strong.
Opting  to  become  an  armed  nuclear  Power  is  our 
State policy. As long as there is a nuclear-weapon State 
that is hostile to the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea, our national security and peace on the Korean 
peninsula can be defended only by means of a credible 
nuclear deterrent. The reason why we had no other option 
but to strengthen our nuclear deterrence unreservedly 
may  not  be  easily  understood  by  European  countries, 
whose security awareness attenuated following the end 
of the Cold War 25 years ago, or by countries that have 
16-29667
49/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
never  had  the  nuclear  weapons  of  a  hostile  Power  on 
their doorstep and in their air space.
The successful nuclear warhead explosion test that 
we  conducted  recently  is  a  practical  countermeasure 
taken  in  reaction  to  the  host  of  threats  and  sanctions 
from  hostile  forces,  including  the  United  States  of 
America, that viciously make an issue of the exercise by 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea of its right 
to self-defence. The test also demonstrates our Party’s 
and people’s strongest will ever in its readiness to wage 
a counter-attack against provocation by enemies.
Only a couple of days ago, the United States again 
threatened the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
by  flying  B-1B  strategic  bombers  over  the  Military 
Demarcation Line on the Korean peninsula and landing 
in  South  Korea.  We  will  never  remain  onlookers 
to  such  acts  of  provocation,  and  the  United  States 
will  have  to  face  inconceivable  consequences.  The 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will  continue 
to  take  measures  to  strengthen  its  national  nuclear-
armed forces, both quantitatively and qualitatively, in 
order to defend its dignity and right to existence, and to 
safeguard genuine peace vis-à-vis the increased threat 
of nuclear war by the United States.
In order to safeguard global peace and security by 
realizing genuine international justice, and to achieve 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  set  by  the  United 
Nations,  the  old  international  order,  where  injustice 
prevails under the guise of justice, must be destroyed 
to give way to a new international order of impartiality 
and justice.
The  blockade  unjustly  imposed  on  Cuba  by  the 
United States of America for the past several decades is 
a typical example of the total absence of international 
justice.  The  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea takes this opportunity to extend full 
support  and  solidarity  to  the  Government  and  people 
of Cuba in their struggle to safeguard the dignity and 
sovereignty  of  the  nation  and  realize  international 
justice in the face of the high-handedness, arbitrariness 
and unilateral blockade of the United States.
International justice should be realized as soon as 
possible  in  the  Palestine  issue  and  in  those  countries 
and  regions  like  Syria,  Iraq  and  Libya  that  face  the 
turbulence of war and violence owing to the unbridled 
interference of the United States in the internal affairs 
of sovereign States.
The covert political attempts of the United States 
and Western countries to infringe upon the sovereignty 
of independent African countries by abusing recourse 
to  the  International  Criminal  Court  should  be  held  in 
check. The double standard of the United States and its 
supporting  Powers  should  be  resolutely  rejected;  they 
politicize human rights issues to intentionally demonize 
the anti-imperialist and independent countries, and they 
misuse human rights as a tool of colour revolutions.
If  the  United  Nations  relinquishes  justice,  no 
country will place its hopes in the Organization. Any 
country that the United States regards as an antagonist 
and  has  targeted  for  regime  change  is  automatically 
categorized as a country with human rights problems, 
without exception. That is the practice pursued at today’s 
United Nations. The Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea is one such country, but that only goes to show 
that we are an independent country that is against the 
United  States  and  its  supporting  Powers.  The  United 
States raises the issue of our human rights because it is 
at a loss in dealing with the nuclear issue. If it is at a loss 
again as to what human rights question to pursue, it will 
take up another issue to continue its attempt to stifle the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. However, our 
people will never renounce socialism and the system of 
absolute service that they themselves have chosen, as a 
result of United States policies.
The  Government  of 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  will  push  ahead  with  its  vigorous 
struggle  to  remove  the  root  cause  of  the  threat  of 
nuclear war imposed by the United States. This it will 
do by having a powerful nuclear deterrent, with a view 
to  safeguarding  peace  and  security  on  the  Korean 
peninsula,  and  in  Asia  and  the  world  at  large,  and  to 
denuclearizing the world.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Péter  Szijjártó,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Trade of Hungary.
Mr. Szijjártó (Hungary): It is an honour for me to 
stand  here  in  front  of  such  a  distinguished  audience, 
especially  in  2016,  the  year  marking  the  sixtieth 
anniversary of the 1956 uprising, when the Hungarian 
people  rose  up  and  fought  for  their  freedom  against 
the  Communist  oppressors.  In  1956,  Hungary  did  not 
receive  external  help  and  so  our  revolution  and  fight 
for  freedom  was  defeated,  but  the  heroic  efforts  of 
our  freedom  fighters  gave  us  the  strength  to  survive 
the  dictatorship  and  to  finally  gain  freedom  in  1990. 
50/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
So  today  I  can  stand  here  before  everyone  as  a 
representative of a free and proud nation, a nation that 
is proud of its traditions, culture, Christianity and past 
struggles for freedom.
Obviously, at this rostrum we do not need to say that 
the world has expeienced enormous global challenges 
that  have  recently  led  to  dramatic  changes  in  the 
tradional world order. Let me just emphasize three of 
the important factors responsible for those changes. All 
of  us  have  witnessed,  and  unfortunately  experienced, 
the  worldwide  spread  of  terrorist  organizations.  Day 
by day we witness the destabilization of some key and 
vulnerable regions of the world. And day by day we face 
the fact that around 60 to 65 million people globally are 
on the move, or being displaced, for various reasons.
These  three  factors  have  led  to  dramatic  changes 
in  the  world  order.  I  think  that  it  is  no  longer  an 
exaggeration to say that this is the twenty-fourth hour 
and  that  there  is  but  little  time  left  for  us  to  channel 
those changes in a positive direction. However, in order 
to reach this goal, all of us together have to be successful 
in carrying out three global policy initiatives.
First  of  all,  we  must  eliminate  the  key  factor  of 
global  terrorism:  the  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  Syria 
(ISIS).  Until  we  finally  destroy  ISIS,  there  will  be 
no  peace  or  stability  in  Europe’s  southern  and  south-
eastern  neighbourhoods,  namely  the  Middle  East  and 
North Africa. Until we finally destroy ISIS, thousands 
upon  thousands  of  people  will  continue  to  be  forced 
to  leave  their  homes.  Until  we  finally  destroy  ISIS, 
Christian  communities  will  continue  to  be  threatened 
and  will  continue  to  suffer  heavy  attacks.  Until  we 
finally destroy ISIS, migratory pressure on Europe will 
not decrease.
Secondly,  we  must  eliminate  the  global  network 
of  human  traffickers.  We  must  destroy  their  business 
models and recognize that they have caused the deaths 
of  thousands  of  innocent  people.  I  am  sure  we  can 
all  agree  that  their  crimes  against  humanity  must  not 
remain unpunished.
law. I think it is especially pertinent to say that here, in 
this Hall. International law stipulates that the right to a 
safe life is a fundamental human right. But the option 
to pick which country to live in is not a fundamental 
human  right.  We  must  make  it  clear  that  there  is  no 
excuse  for  violating  the  border  between  two  safe  and 
peaceful countries.
Regarding Hungary, I am proud to report that with 
the  policies  that  we  have  been  carrying  out,  we  were 
able  to  contribute  to  appropriate  responses  to  recent 
global challenges.
First,  Hungary  is  one  of  23  countries  that  sent 
troops to fight ISIS. There are 143 Hungarian men and 
women  serving  in  Iraq.  They  have  been  taking  part 
in  actions  against  ISIS  as  a  force  protection  unit  and 
as  Peshmerga  trainers.  We  have  sent  the  Peshmerga 
army a significant amount of ammunition, and we have 
been  taking  part  in  the  rehabilitation  programme  for 
wounded  Peshmerga.  We  are  also  beginning  to  train 
Iraqi  army  officials.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to 
mention that we urged the International Criminal Court 
(ICC) to start investigating crimes committed by ISIS 
against Christian communities. We regret and deplore 
that, despite letters sent to the Office of the Prosecutor 
of the ICC, no real action has been taken. We are also 
saddened  that  the  Security  Council  was  not  ready  to 
refer the situation in Syria to the ICC.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  inform 
the  Assembly  that  the  Hungarian  Government  has 
established a State secretariat that monitors the position 
of Christian communities all over the world, determines 
whether they are being persecuted and organizes help 
for  those  communities  whenever  necessary.  By  doing 
so,  we  hope  to  prevent  crimes  committed  against 
Christian communities from going unpunished.
Secondly, 
trafficking, 
regarding  human 
the 
Hungarian Parliament has adopted stringent regulations 
against  human  traffickers,  which  can  serve  as  best 
practices  in  the  global  struggle  against  smuggling 
networks.
Thirdly, we must change the migration policies that 
inspire people to take their lives in their own hands to 
violate borders and to move to countries thousands of 
miles  away.  Migration  is  an  extremely  serious  issue 
and  challenge.  That  is  why,  instead  of  emotional 
debates, we need debates based on common sense and 
rationality. Instead of accusing and bashing each other, 
we must stand on the very stable basis of international 
Thirdly,  regarding  migration,  Hungary  ranks 
the  security  of  its  people  as  its  top  priority.  We  have 
protected  our  borders  thus  far,  and  we  will  not  allow 
any mass border violation in future. In that connection, 
we  must  make  clear  that  migration  policies  all  over 
the world have failed. Migration policies that consider 
all  migrants  to  be  refugees  have  failed.  Migration 
policies that seek to force countries to host thousands 
16-29667
51/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
of migrants against the will of their own citizens have 
failed. Migration policies based on accusing countries 
that protect their own borders have also failed.
The uncontrolled and unregulated mass migration 
has  offered  terrorist  organizations  the  opportunity  to 
send their fighters and their terrorists to other countries 
and  continents.  The  outcome  and  consequence  of  the 
uncontrolled and unregulated mass migration in Europe 
is  the  growing  threat  of  terror  and  the  worsening  of 
public security. It is obvious now that people in Europe 
expect  their  politicians  to  make  the  restoration  of 
security a top European policy priority.
Our  position  is  absolutely  clear  —  we  must  help 
those in need. We must help people to stay as close to 
their homes as possible, because that will allow them 
to return to their homes as soon as the crises are over. 
That  is  why  we,  the  international  community,  have 
to  support  Turkey,  Jordan,  Lebanon  and  the  Kurdish 
regional Government in Iraq, because those countries 
and  the  Kurdish  region  have  been  taking  care  of 
millions  of  refugees.  If  we  do  not  help  them,  and  if 
those countries and that region become unstable, then 
the refugees will hit the road, risking their lives trying 
to reach Europe. Europe will be unable to meet such a 
challenge.  Hungary  has  contributed  €3  million  to  the 
Madad Fund and has made a €5 million pledge to build 
a  hospital  in  Syria.  We  have  also  launched  a  special 
scholarship  programme  for  youngsters  from  Syria  to 
study in Hungary, because we must help those in need.
We  must  place  conditions  on  our  development 
projects  and  funding  programmes.  I  think  we  have 
a  right  to  expect  beneficiary  countries  to  carry  out 
reforms  and  to  create  conditions  that  will  encourage 
their  people  to  stay  in  their  homelands.  The  United 
Nations must play a vital role in settling those serious 
conflicts and in overcoming those serious challenges. 
But,  in  order  for  it  to  do  so,  we  need  credibility. 
Hungary has joined the Accountability, Coherence and 
Transparency Group because we believe that we must 
improve  the  accountability  and  transparency  of  the 
United Nations.
That  is  particularly  true  as  it  relates  to  the 
appointment  process  for  the  Secretary-General.  We 
would like to congratulate the President of the General 
Assembly,  Mr.  Lykketoft,  for  having  ushered  in  the 
new  phase  of  appointing  the  Secretary-General  by 
organizing a hearing and for increasing the Assembly’s 
role in that process.
Finally, I would like to speak as a representative of 
a country from Central Europe. The Central European 
region  must  face  some  difficult  and  complicated 
challenges.  There  is  a  war  in  Ukraine  that  affects 
energy  security;  we  have  tensions  in  the  western 
Balkan  region;  and  we  have  to  deal  with  the  Russia/
Europe relationship. The Central and Eastern European 
countries  form  a  group  within  the  United  Nations 
from  which  so  far  no  Secretary-General  has  been 
chosen  during  the  more  than  70-year  history  of  the 
Organization.  This  time,  therefore,  we  are  appealing 
to  the  generosity  of  the  other  four  country  groups  in 
urging  them  to  appoint  a  Secretary-General  from 
Central Europe, who would understand the mindset of 
the  people  of  Central  Europe  and  their  region  and  its 
challenges.  Such  a  Secretary-General  could  be  very 
helpful in enabling the Central European countries to 
overcome some of their historical tensions and issues.
Finally, I have the honour to announce Hungary’s 
candidature  for  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the 
2017-2019  term.  We  are  grateful  to  those  countries 
that  have  already  pledged  to  support  us.  I  would  like 
to emphasize here that we are ready to work together 
with our fellow States Members of the United Nations 
in  order  to  contribute  to  making  the  United  Nations 
human rights mechanisms more effective, with the goal 
of creating a better world for everyone.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms.  Margot  Wallström,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
of Sweden.
Ms. Wallström (Sweden): More than ever before, 
we  share  a  common  destiny.  The  destiny  of  everyone 
here  is  also  our  destiny,  and  we  can  master  the 
challenges of the future only if we face them together. 
That is why we have the United Nations. That is why we 
meet in this Assembly. 
Today,  we  are  doing  so  at  a  time  marked  by  the 
destructive  forces  of  war  and  the  tragic  plight  of 
refugees, such as the unspeakable horror of Syria, girls 
abducted  and  enslaved  by  Boko  Haram,  or  teenagers 
on the run who are in search of opportunity but have 
never attended school. It is also marked by the return 
of  geopolitical  rivalries  and  isolationism.  The  basic 
tenets  of  our  coexistence  are  being  challenged.  Acts 
of  aggression  are  changing  borders;  nuclear  weapons 
are  proliferating  and  being  tested;  human  dignity  is 
being denied. We are being revisited by the spectres of 
52/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
xenophobia and aggressive nationalism, autocracy and 
fear-mongering. Walls are being erected.
ways  to  sustainably  finance  regional  and  subregional 
organizations’ peace operations.
We must and we can respond to that by empowering 
people, by strengthening democracy, good governance 
and the rule of law, by celebrating diversity, by keeping 
our  economies  open  and  pushing  for  trade,  so  that 
we  can  create  decent  jobs  for  all,  by  committing  to 
arresting  climate  change  in  order  to  save  our  planet, 
by setting ambitious goals for sustainable development, 
by pursuing peace through diplomacy, and by seeking 
solutions through collaboration.
High  on  our  global  agenda  are  the  issues  of 
migration  and  refugees.  As  we  have  heard  so  many 
times already this week, 65 million people are fleeing 
from harm. The international community must live up 
to its commitments by providing protection for refugees 
and  guaranteeing  the  right  to  seek  asylum.  That  is  a 
global  responsibility,  to  be  shouldered  cooperatively 
and  addressed  comprehensively  and  through  shared 
governance.  The  New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees 
and  Migrants  (resolution  71/1),  which  the  Assembly 
adopted earlier this week, is a first step. But there are 
many more to take. Fundamentally, we need to redouble 
resettlement efforts, which are the most important way 
to help refugees. And at the same time, we must harness 
the positive effects of safe and orderly migration.
The  United  Nations  must  adapt  to  a  changing 
environment.  The  Organization  has  achieved  a  great 
deal in 71 years,  but it falls short of our expectations. 
It  is  time  for  serious  reforms  that  can  make  it  fit  for 
purpose. To succeed, we need a strong, visionary and 
courageous leadership, dedicated to change, to turning 
ambitions into concrete action and to delivering on the 
recent  groundbreaking  multilateral  achievements  on 
climate change, sustainable development and peace.
We need the States Members of the United Nations 
to  heed  and  lead  that  call  for  change.  The  prevention 
of armed conflict must be at the core of our action. We 
should make full use of Chapter VI of the Charter of 
the United Nations, which remains underutilized. Early 
warnings should be followed by early action. Resolution 
70/262, on sustaining peace, adopted by the Assembly 
earlier  this  year,  provides  a  strong  framework  on 
which to base effective prevention and peacebuilding. 
Working with and through regional organizations will 
make  the  United  Nations  more  effective  in  its  quest 
to  sustain  peace.  It  is  particularly  important  to  find 
Another  area  requiring  determined  action 
is 
gender  equality.  We  call  for  a  true  shift  in  the  way 
we approach global efforts aimed at achieving gender 
equality.  Ultimately,  it  is  our  task  to  enhance  rights, 
representation  and  resources  for  women  and  girls  all 
around the world, by increasing women’s participation 
in  peace  processes,  protecting  them  against  gender-
based violence in humanitarian crises and strengthening 
their political and economic empowerment. The United 
Nations  can  lead  the  way  by  improving  the  gender 
balance  in  its  system  and  having  a  gender-responsive 
budget of its own, and by using gender-disaggregated 
data when dealing with matters of peace and conflict, 
including in the Security Council.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is 
a political road map for reform. It requires the United 
Nations to offer comprehensive advice and support to 
Governments  on  how  to  shape  and  develop  societies 
on  issues  ranging  from  tax  reform  to  decent  jobs.  It 
also requires the United Nations to monitor developed 
countries,  while  assisting  middle-income  countries 
in  their  efforts  to  build  inclusive  and  accountable 
institutions and sustainable prosperity.
To  achieve  that,  we  must  strengthen  and  reform 
the  financing  of  the  United  Nations.  All  branches 
of  its  development  system  should  make  full  use  of 
their  respective  mandates  and  specialties,  working 
together  and  avoiding  duplication.  Collaborative 
efforts  should  be  rewarded.  That  is  the  only  way 
that  the  United  Nations,  with  its  limited  resources, 
will  be  able  to  make  a  greater  impact  at  the  country 
level  and  support  the  efforts  of  all  Member  States  to 
achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). A 
United Nations conference to be co-hosted by Fiji and 
Sweden in 2017 will focus on SDG 14, with the goal of 
conserving and using sustainably our oceans, seas and 
marine resources.
Security  is  something  we  must  build  together.  It 
is  something  we  share,  and  that  notion  compels  us  to 
contest the false logic of confrontation and geopolitical 
zero-sum games. Instead, it can lead us to emphasize 
de-escalation 
and 
dialogue,  conflict  prevention  and  peacebuilding.  That 
is  a  cornerstone  of  Swedish  security  policy.  It  is  our 
basic approach to security in both our immediate and 
global neighbourhoods.
and  disarmament,  mediation 
16-29667
53/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
Indeed,  the  importance  of  cooperation  increases 
with the transboundary nature of threats. Internal and 
external security are more interlinked than ever before. 
Therefore,  we  must  improve  our  common  tools  for 
crisis management, equip the next generation of peace 
operations  with  more  robust  mandates  and  adequate 
resources  and  strengthen  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  organizations,  including 
the European Union and the African Union. 
But we cannot ignore the key to achieving peace: 
political will. And for peace to be sustainable, the root 
causes  of  conflict  must  be  tackled  and  the  rules  of 
our  multilateral  world  order  respected.  Peace  accords 
are  not  implemented,  and  resolutions,  mandates  and 
decisions  by  the  Security  Council  are  disregarded. 
This  is  unacceptable.  It  challenges  the  authority  of 
the Security Council and the rules-based international 
order itself.
The  Middle  East  peace  process  has  stalled.  The 
parties are far apart, trust is lacking and the situation on 
the ground is deteriorating. The occupation must end, 
international law must be observed and the two-State 
solution must be revitalized. The Security Council has 
a  huge  responsibility.  Other  initiatives  to  revive  the 
peace  process,  such  as  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and 
the French initiative, should be supported by all of us. 
Sweden is honoured to lead the work on involving civil 
society in the French initiative.
In  Europe,  Russia’s  illegal  annexation  of  Crimea 
and  military  presence  in  eastern  Ukraine  constitute 
breaches  of  international  law  and  principles  of  the 
European  security  order  agreed  by  all  participating 
States of the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in  Europe.  All  parties  must  do  their  part  so  that 
Ukraine  can  regain  control  over  its  internationally 
recognized borders.
If  we  want  peace,  we  need  to  plan  for  peace  and 
sustain peace. This is equally critical in the vulnerable 
aftermath  of  violent  conflict.  As  more  areas  are 
liberated  from  Da’esh  and  other  terrorist  groups,  we 
must take action to win peace; we must, at the very least, 
mitigate  and  stabilize  the  situation  in  liberated  areas. 
To meet this challenge, our tools must be developed and 
cooperation enhanced.
The United Nations is central to political processes, 
the delivery of immediate relief, and efforts for long-
term development, including State-building. I welcome 
the  fact  that  the  United  Nations  is  now  exploring 
responses for stabilization. Sweden believes that closer 
cooperation  in  this  field  between  the  United  Nations 
and the European Union, politically and on the ground, 
would  be  beneficial.  We  should  be  ready  to  provide 
such comprehensive support to Iraq.
I wish to thank the General Assembly once again 
for electing Sweden as a non-permanent member of the 
Security  Council  for  the  2017-2018  term.  We  take  its 
strong support as a vote of confidence for our foreign 
policy  of  solidarity  and  global  commitment.  We  also 
see  it  as  a  call  for  a  Security  Council  that  addresses 
challenges  to  international  peace  and  security  in  a 
comprehensive, inclusive and transparent manner. We 
are ready to assume our share of responsibility for the 
entire Council agenda.
We  will  bring  our  foreign  policy  perspectives 
with  us  in  fulfilling  this  assignment  —  those  of 
preventing  armed  conflict,  sustaining  peace, 
the 
necessity  of  including  women  in  peace  processes  and 
an  understanding  of  security  that  stresses  the  links 
to  sustainable  development.  We  will  continue  to  talk 
with, not only about, countries, and we will remain true 
to  our  principles.  Swedish  foreign  policy  rests  firmly 
on international law, respect for human rights, gender 
equality and a humanitarian perspective.
“Today is the last day of the war.” That is what the 
Colombian magazine Semana wrote on 23 June this year. 
More than 50 years of conflict have passed. Hundreds 
of thousands have been killed. Millions were on the run. 
Let us pay our respects to the victims. Let us welcome 
the peace agreement. But let us also remember what is 
unique  about  this  agreement.  The  architects  were  not 
only the Government and the guerrillas. Victims of the 
conflict, women’s organizations and civil society were 
also involved. Peace does not come about because it is 
printed in a headline. It happens step by step, because 
of  the  courage  of  ordinary  people.  It  happens  when 
people organize a meeting to form a political party to 
voice their demands or print a pamphlet or use social 
media to rally for their cause. It happens when women 
and girls claim their human rights, when civil society 
and trade unions grow, making societies and economies 
more participatory and inclusive. Such is the fabric of 
lasting peace and such is the task of the United Nations.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Salaheddine Mezouar, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the  Kingdom 
of Morocco.
54/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
Mr. Mezouar (Morocco) (spoke in Arabic): At the 
outset, it is my pleasure to express to the President and 
his friendly country our sincere congratulations on his 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its  seventy-first  session.  I  wish  him  every  success  in 
leading the work at this session and in bringing about 
tangible  results  with  regard  to  all  the  issues  on  our 
agenda.
I  also  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  to 
his  predecessor,  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  our  sincere 
gratitude  for  the  excellent  manner  in  which  he 
conducted the work of the previous session. I wish to 
express  our  deep  appreciation  to  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for all his efforts to realize the objectives 
of the United Nations.
This session of the General Assembly coincides with 
the sixtieth anniversary of the Kingdom’s membership 
in  the  United  Nations.  Over  the  past  60  years, 
Morocco  has  worked  tirelessly  with  the  international 
Organization.  It  is  committed  to  its  objectives  of 
strengthening  international  peace  and  security  and  to 
delivering the possibility of development to all peoples 
of the world, especially in developing countries.
Joining  the  Organization  was  one  of  the  first 
sovereign  decisions  that  Morocco  took  after  it  gained 
its independence. It is an expression of its commitment 
to  multilateral  action  as  the  best  way  to  confront 
complicated  crises  and 
increasing  challenges 
throughout the world, as well as its commitment to the 
values  of  solidarity,  cooperation,  freedom  and  peace. 
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  believes  in  the  role  of  the 
United Nations as a reflection of the world’s values and 
the principles of international legitimacy.
the 
Ever since it joined the Organization, Morocco has 
worked diligently to contribute to the realization of its 
objectives. In that respect, Morocco sought to adopt a 
dynamic approach by realigning its national priorities 
with those of the United Nations.
Peacemaking is a cornerstone of the activities of the 
United Nations, as reflected in its history of peaceful 
settlement  of  international  and  regional  conflicts  and  
in  its  respect  for  the  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity, 
political independence and territorial unity of States, in 
accordance with the principles of the Organization. As 
a  committed  partner  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations  since  the  1960s,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco 
has sought to contribute substantially and continuously 
as  a  demonstration  of  its  belief  in  collective  security 
and  the  crucial  role  that  the  United  Nations  plays  in 
that regard. Morocco has participated in peacekeeping 
operations  in  Africa,  America  and  Asia  and  has 
contributed  more  than  100,000  peacekeepers.  Today, 
it  is  contributing  more  than  1,600  Blue  Helmets  to 
peacekeeping operations in Africa.
It is incumbent on the international community to 
work  for  international  peace  and  security,  especially 
in  Africa,  given  the  connection  between  economic 
and  social  progress  and  political  stability.  There 
can  be  no  development  without  peace  and  security 
and  no  stability  without  comprehensive,  sustainable 
development. Under the wise leadership of his Majesty 
King  Mohammed  VI,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  will 
spare no effort to strengthen United Nations initiatives 
to  promote  good  governance  and  contain  conflicts 
related  to  the  territorial  integrity  of  countries.  To 
that  end,  since  January  2014  Morocco  has  chaired 
the  Central  African  Republic  configuration  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission.
Ever  since  it  became  a  Member  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  has  sought  to 
establish  relations  of  solidarity  among  members  of 
the  international  community  both  by  encouraging 
the  constructive  North-South  partnership  and  by 
strengthening  South-South  cooperation.  These  are 
strategic  priorities  designed  to  realize  sustainable 
development for the benefit of all peoples of the world. 
To  put  the  issue  of  sustainable  development  at  the 
centre  of  the  work  of  the  international  community, 
the Kingdom seeks to develop genuine partnerships in 
order  to  bring  about  sustainable  human  development 
through solidarity.
In that connection, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development,  which  was  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly  in  September  2015  (resolution  70/1),  is  a 
political commitment through which we have agreed on 
common ground in our efforts to fulfil the aspirations 
of people in developing nations to live in dignity. The 
Kingdom  of  Morocco  emphasizes  the  importance 
of  providing  financing  for  the  implementation  of  the 
2030 Agenda. All should do their part to implement the 
Agenda in an effective and appropriate manner.
The  United  Nations  must  align  its  work  with  the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs), while Member States must adopt the necessary 
measures  and  policies  to  implement  the  Goals,  and 
16-29667
55/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
various forms of financing should be provided to ensure 
that the Goals are achieved by 2030.
As part of the effort to strengthen development at 
the  national  level,  the  National  Initiative  for  Human 
Development,  which  was  launched  by  His  Majesty 
King Mohammed VI in May 2005, is one of the basic 
pillars  of  Morocco’s  programme.  It  is  human-centred 
and  takes  a  comprehensive  approach  to  development 
in that it includes political, economic, social, cultural 
and environmental dimensions. It has been successful 
in reducing poverty, vulnerability and marginalization, 
in developing infrastructure, and in providing health-
care services.
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  has  strengthened  its 
solidarity with African countries as a centrepiece of its 
foreign policy. It has sought to defend the interests of 
the continent and to help it to promote development and 
combat poverty. It has shared with a number of African 
countries its experience in the field of social services, 
including  in  the  areas  of  education,  training,  water, 
agriculture,  food  security,  electricity  and  health  care. 
In this respect, the Kingdom of Morocco renews its call 
on  the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  international 
financial  institutions  to  develop  a  plan  for  economic 
transformation  in  Africa  and  to  provide  resources  to 
finance it.
Given  the  link  between  sustainable  development 
and 
the  environment,  Morocco,  which  will  host 
the  twenty-second  session  of  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change,  in  Marrakesh  in  November, 
aspires to make the session an opportunity for African 
voices  and  those  of  other  parts  of  the  world  that  are 
vulnerable to the negative impacts of climate change to 
be heard on an equal basis. It emphasizes its intention 
to make the Marrakesh session a turning point in the 
implementation of the Agenda and the Paris Agreement 
on  Climate  Change  by  facilitating  solutions  for 
sustainable development, as well as practical measures 
and  structural  programmes  to  implement  the  global 
commitments to address climate change.
Morocco  wishes  to  emphasize  that  the  success 
of  the  implementation  of  the  Paris  Agreement  is 
organically  and  strongly  linked  to  the  provision  of 
the  necessary  financial  resources.  We  must  promote 
access  to  financing.  In  that  connection,  the  Kingdom 
of Morocco hopes that the Conference participants in 
Marrakesh will give special attention to the interests of 
the countries of the South, including African countries 
and small island developing States, that are threatened 
by climate change.
At  this  time,  Morocco,  which  has  deposited  its 
instrument of ratification of the Paris Agreement, calls 
on all other States to expedite their ratification of the 
Agreement  so  that  it  can  enter  into  force  as  a  strong 
expression  of  the  commitment  of  the  international 
community. Morocco seeks to include all stakeholders 
in  the  Marrakesh  session  so  that  it  will  reflect  our 
solidarity and commitment to safeguarding the future 
of present and future generations.
The Kingdom of Morocco has placed the continent 
of  Africa  at  the  heart  of  its  foreign  policy  and  will 
continue  to  make  every  effort  to  promote  Africa’s 
economic  development.  With  a  clear  vision  of  the 
future  based  on  an  understanding  of  the  continent’s 
problems, His Majesty King Mohammed VI is leading 
the process of peace and development on the continent 
and  launching  initiatives  and  visiting  several  African 
countries  in  order  to  strengthen  the  ties  of  fraternity, 
cooperation and solidarity among the African people. 
During  his  most  recent  speech,  on  20  August,  His 
Majesty stressed the strong link between Morocco and 
Africa.He said:,
“Africa, for us, is not a target. It is a commitment, 
because  African  people  are  Africans  regardless 
of  where  they  are  and  because  the  interests  of 
Morocco are part of those of Africa. Our destinies 
will  always  be  intertwined.  In  our  view,  we  will 
either  achieve  progress  and  stability  together  or 
not  at  all.  Africa  is  more  than  a  geographical  or 
historical  connection.  It  is  a  commitment  based 
on  love  and  respect,  human  relations  and  a  deep-
seated interest.”
Morocco’s  decision  to  return  to  its  natural  place 
within  the  African  Union  is  a  firm  expression  of  its 
commitment to Africa and reflects its interests. On this 
occasion,  I  wish  to  express  our  deep  gratitude  to  the 
majority of African countries for calling on Morocco to 
return to its African context. Aware of its leading role 
in Africa, Morocco has responded to their call and will 
continue defending African interests at all levels.
Sixty years after joining our strong Organization, 
I underscore our belief in the role of regional economic 
groups.  Morocco  has  sought  to  strengthen  good-
neighbourly  relations  in  the  African,  Maghreb  and 
Mediterranean contexts. His Majesty continues to call 
56/58 
16-29667
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.17
for a new regime in the Maghreb with influence at the 
regional  and  international  levels,  a  regime  that  will 
guarantee  peace  and  stability  in  the  region,  based  on 
respect for member States and their territorial integrity.
Morocco  gave  earnest  and  responsible  thought 
to  the  Security  Council’s  calls  for  a  lasting  political 
solution  through  negotiation  in  the  regional  conflict 
over Western Sahara and responded by putting forward 
a  self-rule  initiative  that  reflected  several  Security 
Council  resolutions  as  the  basis  for  a  solution.  The 
Council’s most recent resolution on the issue, resolution 
2285 (2016), emphasizes once again the basic aspects of 
a political solution to this conflict, calls on all parties 
to  be  realistic  and  seek  consensus,  and  appeals  to  all 
parties  and  neighbouring  States  to  seek  a  political 
solution through dialogue.
Morocco  reaffirms 
to  continue 
working  sincerely  with  the  United  Nations  to  find 
a  political  solution  through  negotiations  that  will 
maintain  the  unity  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco, 
enable  the  people  of  its  southern  region  to  manage 
their affairs in the context of democracy, stability and 
comprehensive  development,  and  protect  the  northern 
part  of  the  continent  from  the  dangers  of  separatism, 
Balkanization, terrorism and extremism.
its 
intention 
The sixtieth anniversary of Morocco’s joining the 
United Nations is a good occasion to reaffirm Morocco’s 
unwavering commitment to protecting human rights and 
defending fundamental freedoms as part of its efforts to 
uphold human dignity within a united and democratic 
community.  Morocco  has  initiated  many  reforms  and 
has  realized  many  achievements  designed  to  strength 
human rights, especially in relation to women, children 
and young people. It has expanded individual freedoms 
through  an  approach  that  puts  human  rights  at  the 
centre  of  human  development.  Morocco  is  working 
assiduously  to  integrate  its  comprehensive  vision  in 
all  international  forums  and  is  playing  a  leading  role 
in  developing  the  mechanisms  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council, including the universal periodic review, which 
Morocco was instrumental in developing.
The  Kingdom  has  taken  several  initiatives  with 
its  partners  in  the  Council  to  strengthen  the  United 
Nations human rights system. It also hosted the second 
World Human Rights Forum, in 2014, thereby adding an 
international dimension to the Kingdom’s achievements. 
Morocco will spare no effort to make the noble principles 
of  human  rights  a  means  to  create  friendship  among 
nations and respect for the international community’s 
diversity  and  to  strengthen  the  essential  values  of 
human rights free from politicization.
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  as  an  active  Member 
of  the  United  Nations,  has  adopted  a  clear  and 
firm  position  with  regard  to  international  efforts 
to  combat  international  terrorism  in  all  its  forms 
and  manifestations.  The  Kingdom  has  endeavoured 
earnestly, through bilateral and multilateral cooperation 
efforts  at  the  regional  and  international  levels,  to 
combat  the  phenomenon  of  terrorism.  It  reaffirms  its 
commitment  to  scrupulously  respecting  its  obligation 
to  ensure  that  no  terrorist  activity  is  launched  from 
Moroccan territory.
Last April, Morocco was among the first countries 
to submit a national report on the implementation of the 
provisions of Security Council resolution 2253 (2015) 
with regard to combating terrorism and suppressing its 
sources of financing. The report was very comprehensive 
and addressed in detail all the measures that Morocco 
has  taken  to  implement  its  obligations  in  accordance 
with the resolution’s provisions. At the national level, 
Morocco  has  adopted  a  sound  and  clear-cut  policy  to 
combat  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations 
through  a  comprehensive  and  multidisciplinary 
strategy,  which  is  closely  aligned  with  that  of  the 
United Nations. It is based on a religious, social, legal 
and security approach.
In that connection, Morocco has launched a number 
of  initiatives,  including  a  joint  initiative  with  the 
Netherlands  in  the  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Forum, 
to  combat  foreign  terrorist  fighters.  Morocco  and  the 
Netherlands, through their joint chairmanship, want to 
expand the Forum at the regional and international levels 
and  to  strengthen  related  efforts  at  the  international 
level.  Morocco  has  also  established  the  Group  of 
Friends  Against  Terrorism  at  the  United  Nations,  the 
purpose  of  which  is  to  coordinate  and  harmonize  the 
various voluntary initiatives.
At  the  regional  level,  Morocco  has  drawn  on  its 
experience  in  undertaking  religious  efforts  to  combat 
terrorism  at  the  service  of  fraternal  and  friendly 
countries that wish to provide religious training to their 
imams to promote respect for the principles of peaceful 
coexistence  and  tolerance.  In  a  letter  addressing 
the  growing  ignorance  of  many  about  religion,  His 
Majesty  said  that  all  people  —  Muslims,  Christians 
and  Jews  —  should  stand  as  one  in  facing  all  forms 
16-29667
57/58
A/71/PV.17 
23/09/2016
of  terrorism,  extremism  and  hatred.  The  history  of 
humankind  shows  that  progress  cannot  be  achieved 
in  a  society  that  is  suffering  from  xenophobia  and 
extremism,  because  those  factors  lead  to  a  lack  of 
security and stability.
The Kingdom of Morocco firmly believes that the 
United  Nations  must  be  the  lead  Organization  in  the 
fight  against  terrorism.  It  emphasizes  its  readiness 
to  share  its  experiences  and  good  practices  with  its 
partners. Morocco is open to considering any initiative 
that seeks to combat this phenomenon, bearing in mind 
that  suppressing  terrorism  is  a  joint  responsibility 
shared by all Member States of the United Nations. A 
global commitment and the adoption of a cooperative 
approach  based  on  bilateral  and  regional  solidarity 
are  needed  to  implement  the  provisions  of  counter-
terrorism agreements.
With  the  same  commitment,  Morocco  pursues 
its  efforts  in  the  field  of  mediation  for  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  conflicts.  Accordingly,  the  Kingdom 
hosted  a  meeting  of  the  Libyan  parties,  convened 
under  the  auspices  of  the  Special  Representative  of 
the Secretary-General and Head of the United Nations 
Support  Mission  in  Libya,  which  culminated  in  the 
signing the Skhirat Political Agreement. The Kingdom, 
which supports the search for a political solution to the 
Libyan problem through negotiations, stresses that an 
end must be put to the bloodshed of innocents and that 
the  unity  of  Libya  must  be  maintained.  We  call  here 
on all Libyan political stakeholders to pursue dialogue 
and to fully implement the Skhirat Agreement without 
excluding any party. That will enable the Libyan people 
to  realize  their  aspirations  to  stability,  national  unity 
and  sustainable  development  in  an  atmosphere  of 
freedom, dignity and democracy, devoid of extremism 
and terrorism.
Morocco will spare no effort in its efforts to achieve 
peace and stability in the Sahel and Sahara regions. As 
a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council  in 
2012 and 2013, it played a role, through the Council, in 
developing the United Nations Integrated Strategy for 
the Sahel, which seeks to strengthen good governance, 
security and development in the region.
The Kingdom of Morocco considers the Palestinian 
issue  to  be  a  crucial  problem  in  the  Middle  East  and 
is  convinced  that  this  sensitive  region  cannot  enjoy  a 
just and lasting peace as long as the Palestinian people 
are not able to exercise their alienable right to establish 
an independent and viable State of Palestine, with East 
Jerusalem as its capital. Morocco expresses its concern 
over the fact that the Israeli-Palestinian negotiations are 
not advancing as they should. It calls on the international 
community  to  work  more  effectively  and  tenaciously 
to create the necessary conditions for a resumption of 
direct negotiations between Palestine and Israel within 
a specific time frame. The revival of the peace process 
must be based on solid ground, in accordance with the 
principles  of  international  legitimacy  and  previous 
agreements, such as the road map and the Arab Peace 
Initiative, in order to ensure the right of the Palestinian 
people  to  establish  an  independent  State  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital.
The Kingdom of Morocco will remain committed 
to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  the  Palestinian  question 
by  supporting  constructive 
that  would 
ensure the necessary conditions to realize a two-State 
solution, including the French initiative, which involves 
comprehensive international and Egyptian efforts with 
a regional impact. Morocco calls on Palestine and Israel 
to resume negotiations.
initiatives 
The  troubling  developments  affecting  the  Holy 
City  of  Jerusalem,  including  human  rights  violations, 
continued  settlement  and  forced  displacement  in  an 
effort to change the legal and demographic composition 
of  the  city,  represent  grave  violations  of  international 
law  and  international  agreements.  There  must  be  an 
immediate  intervention  to  put  an  end  to  them.  His 
Majesty the King, as Chair of the Al-Quds Committee 
of  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference,  has 
called the attention of the international community to 
the dangers and threats of Israel’s pursuit of its plans to 
change the legal, demographic and religious character 
of Jerusalem. He urges the leading Powers to ensure that 
Jerusalem  remains  a  symbol  of  peaceful  coexistence 
among all monotheistic religions.
After 70 years of the existence of our international 
Organization, today more than ever we need a strong, 
renewed  and  effective  United  Nations.  We  must 
therefore  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the  principles 
of the Organization and to mobilizing our capacities to 
reform and strengthen it. The Organization is the most 
effective  multilateral  forum  for  seeking  solutions  to 
contemporary  problems  and  for  bringing  about  a  just 
international system that will ensure peace and stability 
for present and future generations.
The meeting rose at 3.20 p.m.
58/58 
16-29667
