United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
56th plenary meeting
Thursday, 8 December 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.56
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 69
Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian 
and disaster relief assistance of the United Nations, 
including special economic assistance
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/395)
Draft resolution (A/71/L.34)
Draft amendments (A/71/L.36 and A/71/L.37)
(a) Strengthening of the coordination of emergency 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/71/82, 
A/71/329, A/71/336 and A/71/353)
Draft resolutions (A/71/L.32 and A/71/L.33)
(b) Assistance to the Palestinian people
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/87)
Draft resolution (A/71/L.31)
(c) Special economic assistance to individual 
countries or regions
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/620)
(d) Strengthening of international cooperation 
and coordination of efforts to study, mitigate 
and minimize the consequences of the 
Chernobyl disaster
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/411)
Draft resolution (A/71/L.28)
The  President:  This  year  marks  the  twenty-fifth 
anniversary of the adoption of resolution 46/182, entitled 
“Strengthening  of  the  coordination  of  humanitarian 
emergency assistance of the United Nations”. Its adoption 
was a landmark development for the United Nations in 
establishing guiding principles for the coordination of 
humanitarian assistance and in establishing the United 
Nations humanitarian architecture.
While  this  is  a  moment  for  commemoration, 
it  regrettably  takes  place  at  a  time  of  escalating 
humanitarian emergencies and needs. Ongoing conflicts 
and the devastating impacts of climate change, extreme 
weather  and  natural  disasters  are  compounding  and 
leading to the suffering of millions of people. The loss 
of  life,  homes,  infrastructure,  livelihoods  and  food 
security  are  having  devastating  consequences.  Across 
our world, 128.6 million people are affected by conflict, 
violence and disaster, with almost 93 million people in 
need of protection and humanitarian assistance. Indeed, 
as  we  meet,  the  United  Nations  and  its  partners  are 
launching the largest appeal in history for humanitarian 
funding, seeking $22.2 billion in 2017 to meet the urgent 
humanitarian needs of people across the globe. I would 
urge all Member States to contribute to that appeal.
As  we  look  to  address  the  enormous  scale  of  the 
challenge facing us, we must strive to find new ways to 
sustain peace, resolve conflicts, combat climate change, 
better manage migrant and refugee flows and respond 
to  escalating  humanitarian  needs.  In  that  context,  it 
is  critical  that  the  international  community  engage  in 
multi-year planning, enhance coordination between the 
United  Nations  and  other  humanitarian  actors  on  the 
ground, and make the best use of all available tools and 
resources at its disposal.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-42340 (E)
*1642340*
A/71/PV.56 
08/12/2016
Fundamental to that effort is the recognition of the 
interlinkages between sustainable development, peace 
and security, human rights and humanitarian action, as 
well as finding new ways to bring these strands together 
and  develop  solutions.  To  that  end,  I  will  convene  a 
high-level  dialogue,  entitled  “Building  Sustainable 
Peace for All: Synergies between the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development and Sustaining Peace”. That 
meeting will be held on 24 January 2017.
The  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development, 
the  Paris  Agreement 
on  Climate  Change  and  the  Sendai  Framework  for 
Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 must, of course, be 
prioritized for urgent action. At the same time, the New 
York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and  Migrants  and  the 
commitments made at the World Humanitarian Summit 
must  be  seen  as  complementary  to  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  and  implemented  without 
delay.  Long-term  solutions  are  needed  to  break  the 
cycles of recurrent crises and conflicts that the world 
is  currently  caught  in.  If  the  SDGs  are  implemented 
urgently,  effectively  and  at  scale,  they  will  eradicate 
extreme poverty, advance gender equality and protect 
our  natural  environment.  Their  implementation  will 
meet  humanitarian  needs,  as  they  will  build  peaceful 
and inclusive societies and combat climate change.
At present, more than 65 million people have been 
forcibly  displaced  as  a  result  of  armed  conflict  and 
persecution. Flagrant attacks against civilians, schools, 
hospitals  and  humanitarian  and  medical  personnel 
continue, in violation of international human rights and 
humanitarian  law.  I  strongly  condemn  such  attacks. 
Political  solutions  for  those  crises  must  urgently 
be found.
We  must  also  ramp  up  our  action  to  address 
climate  change.  The  science  on  climate  change  is 
unequivocal.  We  are  currently  on  a  pathway  to  a  3°C 
to 4°C increase, and the adverse impacts of that reality 
are undermining the ability of countries to achieve the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  The  consequences 
for  humankind  will  be  catastrophic  if  the  current 
trajectory  is  not  radically  altered.  As  we  all  know, 
climate change is increasing the frequency and severity 
of  natural  disasters,  including  droughts,  storms  and 
floods  with  devastating  consequences.  Developing 
countries,  particularly  the  least  developed  countries 
and the small island developing countries, are acutely 
vulnerable  to  the  resulting  human  and  economic 
loss.  It  is  estimated  that  in  2015,  19.2  million  people 
were  displaced  by  disasters  associated  with  natural 
hazards. To put it simply, combating climate change is 
a humanitarian imperative.
It is only by working together that we will be able 
to improve humanitarian responses, reduce underlying 
causes,  build  resilience  and  ensure  that  development 
gains reach our most vulnerable people — the millions 
of  people  relying  on  us  for  humanitarian  assistance. 
Collective responsibility and action are needed. I count 
on all member States to support those efforts.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  Deputy  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Belarus,  who  will  introduce  draft 
resolution A/71/L.28.
Mr.  Rybakov  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  It 
is  a  great  honour  for  me  to  present  draft  resolution 
A/71/L.28,  entitled  the  “Persistent  legacy  of  the 
Chernobyl disaster”. I should like, from the very bottom 
of my heart, to thank all delegations that have actively 
and constructively contributed to the consultations on 
the  text  of  the  draft  resolution.  I  am  pleased  to  note 
the positive nature of the draft resolution, reflecting the 
many well-wishers. We would particularly like to thank 
those countries sponsoring the draft resolution for their 
valuable support.
In introducing the draft resolution, we confirm the 
importance of international cooperation on Chernobyl 
under United Nations auspices, the aim of which is to 
surmount  the  long-term  repercussions  of  the  disaster. 
We  also  reaffirm  the  unique  and  leading  role  played 
by the United Nations in the coordination of efforts to 
meet the needs of the people in the territories affected. 
It  has  been  30  years  since  that  enormous  nuclear 
disaster occurred in the Chernobyl nuclear-power plant. 
However, millions of people in the affected regions of 
Belarus, Ukraine and Russia continue to reside in the 
contaminated  areas.  The  area  of  radioactive  fallout 
covers  nearly  one  quarter  of  the  territory  of  Belarus, 
where 20 per cent of our population resides.
Surmounting  the  repercussions  of  the  Chernobyl 
disaster has become a top priority for our Government 
in  Belarus.  Notwithstanding  the  great  progress  in 
recovering affected regions, much remains to be done. 
The  legacy  of  Chernobyl  will  remain  relevant  for  the 
affected  regions  in  the  long  term.  This  year,  we  have 
drafted  a  focused  and  more  concise  document,  as 
compared with previous resolutions on the topic.
2/26 
16-42340
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.56
The thirtieth anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster 
coincided with the completion of the implementation of 
the United Nations action plan on Chernobyl to 2016. 
Therefore,  our  draft  resolution  emphasizes  the  need 
to  continue  Chernobyl-oriented  cooperation  under 
United  Nations  auspices  after  2016,  so  as  to  achieve 
sustainable development in the regions affected through 
partnerships, innovation and investment.
The current draft resolution builds upon resolution 
68/99  and  the  Minsk  agreements,  adopted  at  the 
international  conference  entitled  “Chernobyl  30  years 
later: from an emergency to a revival and sustainable 
social and economic development of affected territories”, 
held on 25 April in Minsk. We note with gratitude the 
contribution of the international community, including 
the  United  Nations,  to  the  recovery  and  development 
of  the  affected  regions.  A  major  role  has,  of  course, 
been  played  by  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme,  which  serves  as  the  coordinator  for  all 
United Nations bodies and organizations engaged in the 
Chernobyl efforts.
Given the completion of the 2006-2016 Decade of 
Recovery and Sustainable Development of the Affected 
Regions,  as  proclaimed  by  the  General  Assembly 
(resolution  62/9),  draft  resolution  A/71/L.28  calls  on 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  the 
Inter-Agency  Task  Force  on  Chernobyl  to  continue  to 
join the countries affected, in consultation with Member 
States, in drafting clear parameters for United Nations 
engagement in efforts for the recovery of the affected 
territories.  The  draft  resolution  underscores  the  need 
to  monitor  the  situation  in  such  regions.  In  order  to 
assess  the  effectiveness  of  international  assistance, 
the draft resolution acknowledges the need to enhance 
networking  among  specialized  national  scientific 
institutions  aimed  at  studying  the  long-term  medical, 
radiological, radiobiological and other consequences of 
the Chernobyl disaster.
Belarus has amassed unique experience in the work 
directed  towards  the  recovery  of  the  affected  regions 
and the revival of socioeconomic activity with a view to 
setting the stage for ensuring safe residences for people 
in  the  affected  regions.  We  should  like  to  stress  that 
we stand ready to safeguard and share the experience 
that we have gained in surmounting the repercussions 
of that man-made disaster, so as to ensure subsequent 
sustainable development.
A key symbolic component of the draft resolution is 
the proclamation of 26 April as International Chernobyl 
Disaster Remembrance Day. I hope that the Assembly 
recalls  the  fact  that,  during  the  commemorative 
meeting of the General Assembly marking the thirtieth 
anniversary  of  the  Chernobyl  disaster,  Adi  Roche, 
the  well-known  Irish  political  and  social  activist 
for  Chernobyl  children,  spoke  from  this  rostrum  on 
behalf of the Belarus delegation (see A/70/PV.92). She 
dedicated  30  years  of  her  life  to  helping  children  in 
countries far from her own. The credit for such a noble 
idea lies with her — the idea of proclaiming 26 April 
International  Chernobyl  Remembrance  Day.  We  are 
very pleased that the idea secured support in the hearts 
of our partners.
We view the adoption by the General Assembly of 
the draft resolution on Chernobyl as a confirmation of 
the steadfast solidarity of the international community 
with  the  efforts  of  the  countries  affected,  as  well  as 
a  willingness  to  continue  to  ensure  that  the  issue  of 
Chernobyl  receives  due  attention.  We  fully  believe 
that  such  an  important  draft  resolution  will  again  be 
adopted by consensus.
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 
Slovakia to introduce draft resolution A/71/L.34.
Mr.  Ružička  (Slovakia):  I  have  the  honour  to 
introduce,  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  and  its 
member  States,  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Safety 
and security of humanitarian personnel and protection 
of  United  Nations  personnel”,  contained  in  document 
A/71/L.34.
In  2015,  109  aid  workers  were  killed,  110  injured 
and 68 kidnapped in the exercise of their humanitarian 
work. While those figures are somewhat lower than the 
all-time high reached in 2013, they are still unacceptably 
high.  The  operating  environment  for  humanitarian 
personnel  and  United  Nations  personnel  has  become 
significantly more dangerous, as demonstrated by the 
threefold increase in the number of direct attacks against 
United  Nations  premises  and  vehicles.  However,  the 
fortunately diminished impact of such attacks against 
the United Nations also illustrates the progress made in 
the security management system of the United Nations.
In  this  year’s  draft  resolution,  we  continue  to 
recognize  the  diverse  and  multifaceted  threats  and 
different exposure that female and male humanitarian 
personnel,  including  non-governmental  organizations, 
medical  personnel  and  United  Nations  and  associated 
16-42340
3/26
A/71/PV.56 
08/12/2016
personnel,  face  in  the  overall  deteriorating  global 
security  environment,  and  commend  their  courage 
for continuing to operate in such environments, often 
at  great  personal  risk.  We  also  strongly  reaffirm  that 
all  deliberate  attacks  against  civilians, 
including 
humanitarian  or  United  Nations  personnel,  as  well  as 
attacks  or  repressions  inflicted  on  medical  personnel 
or  their  facilities,  are  clear  violations  of  international 
humanitarian  law,  and  that  the  perpetrators  must  be 
held  accountable.  This  year’s  draft  resolution  notably 
emphasizes the need to promptly, fully and effectively 
investigate such attacks.
Last but not least, through the draft resolution, we 
commend and encourage the continued improvements 
in  and  professionalization  of  the  United  Nations 
security  management  system.  We  commend  the  work 
of  the  United  Nations  Department  for  Safety  and 
Security  under  the  guidance  of  Under-Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Peter  Drennan,  and  welcome 
the 
integration of all security personnel of the Secretariat 
under  his  leadership.  The  draft  resolution  reiterates 
the  strong  mandate  and  additional  guidance  from  the 
General  Assembly  for  the  essential  work  performed 
by Department for Safety and Security and the United 
Nations Security Management System more broadly.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
firmly  believe  that  it  is  our  duty  to  acknowledge  the 
commitment  of  humanitarian  and  United  Nations  and 
associated personnel and to support their work and do 
everything in our power to further enhance their safety 
and security.
I  wish  to  warmly  thank  the  many  delegations 
that  took  part  in  the  consultations,  particularly  those 
sponsoring  the  draft  resolution,  for  their  constructive 
engagement  with  a  view  to  agreeing  on  a  text  that 
demonstrates our shared concern regarding the safety 
and  security  of  humanitarian  and  United  Nations 
personnel.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  valuable 
support of the Department of Safety and Security and 
Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs, 
which informed our discussions.
The  humanitarian  draft  resolution  has  been  and 
should remain genuinely consensual as a testimony to 
our shared humanity. We owe that to the people risking 
their  lives  on  a  daily  basis  in  order  to  save  the  lives 
of  others.  They  need  the  collective,  unequivocal  and 
unqualified support of the entire General Assembly.
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 
Sweden to introduce draft resolution A/71/L.32.
Mr.  Skoog  (Sweden):  It  is  my  great  pleasure 
to  introduce  to  the  General  Assembly  the  draft 
resolution  entitled  “Strengthening  of  the  coordination 
of  emergency  humanitarian  assistance  of  the  United 
Nations”, contained in document A/71/L.32.
This  year  marks  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of 
the landmark resolution 46/182. Sweden has facilitated 
the negotiations on later versions of that resolution ever 
since  its  adoption.  When  the  original  resolution  was 
adopted 25 years ago ,at 1.30 a.m. on 19 December 1991, 
spontaneous  applause  broke  out  in  the  Hall.  People 
were seized by a sense of solidarity and of embarking 
on  a  new,  common  endeavour  for  the  greater  good  of 
the  world’s  most  vulnerable.  Such  is  the  power  and 
potential of the United Nations at its best.
Against  the  backdrop  of  an  unprecedented  global 
humanitarian crisis, we should try to re-enact the same 
kind  of  urgency  today  as  we  present  an  updated  and 
improved incarnation of resolution 46/182. Right now 
is also the time to remember that the goal of our efforts 
remains  the  same  as  it  was  on  that  day  25  years  ago, 
namelt, to effectively come to the aid of desperate fellow 
men  and  women  affected  by  crisis.  That  is  why  the 
concept  of  consensus  and  of  a  collaborative  approach 
that goes above and beyond narrow national interests is 
so critical when it comes to humanitarian affairs.
The  annual  adoption  by  the  General  Assembly  of 
the  omnibus  humanitarian  resolution  reaffirms  the 
unique leadership role played by the United Nations in 
coordinating  and  responding  to  global  humanitarian 
needs.  Its  adoption  by  consensus  sends  an  important 
message  of  our  collective  dedication  to  respond 
to  humanitarian  needs  and  uphold 
international 
humanitarian  law.  This  year’s  draft  resolution  has  a 
number  of  significant  improvements,  reinforcements 
and adaptations to the humanitarian realities of today. 
The  end  result  is  an  ever-improved  policy  platform 
for global humanitarian action and assistance. Let me 
mention three significant developments.
First,  this  year’s  draft  resolution  highlights  the 
difficult situation faced by the record number of people 
who  have  been  forcibly  displaced  by  conflict  and 
disasters and the urgent need to ensure protection and 
durable solutions for such populations.
4/26 
16-42340
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.56
Secondly,  we  have  further  strengthened 
the 
framework  to  prevent,  respond  to  and  prosecute  acts 
of  sexual  and  gender-based  violence  in  humanitarian 
emergencies. We have also reinforced the role of women 
in  humanitarian  action,  highlighting  the  importance 
of  including  women  in  decision-making  processes  at 
all levels.
Thirdly,  this  year’s  draft  resolution  provides  a 
stronger platform for humanitarian reform, humanitarian 
financing  and  collaborative  efficiencies,  highlighting 
the  responsibilities  of  both  donors  and  humanitarian 
actors.  This  year’s  draft  resolution  also  reflects  the 
interdependency and criticality of partnerships among 
the  various  aspects  of  humanitarian  aid.  It  highlights 
the  importance  of  local  actors,  national  efforts  and 
linkages with the development sector aimed at meeting 
long-term humanitarian needs.
By  these  and  other  improvements  we  have  taken 
a  collective  step  towards  a  stronger,  more  effective 
and  more  inclusive  humanitarian  response  system. 
We now count on the United Nations and its Member 
States  —  that  is  us  —  to  implement  those  important 
changes.  I  am  pleased  to  note  that  the  number  of 
sponsors  has  increased  significantly  compared  with 
previous  years,  with  strong  cross-regional  support 
for  the  important  issues  and  objectives  that  we  have 
outlined in the omnibus draft resolution.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  warmly 
thank  and  congratulate  delegations  for  their  active 
and  constructive  engagement  with 
this  year’s 
draft  resolution  and  for  supporting  it  through  their 
sponsorship. I want to express special thanks to all of 
the humanitarian experts in the Hall for their excellent 
work, and I address a special word of gratitude to my 
own expert, Counsellor Ola Sohlström, for his excellent 
coordination of this draft resolution. We look forward 
to its formal adoption by consensus later on.
The strengthened draft resolution that I am proud to 
present here today is a result of the common dedication 
of  many  active  Member  States,  small  and  large,  of 
countries providing humanitarian assistance and those 
receiving  it,  of  countries  prone  to  disasters  and  those 
with  lessons  on  how  to  avoid  them,  of  countries  that 
have  suffered  crises  that  have  forced  parts  of  their 
population  to  flee  and  countries  generously  hosting 
those who need shelter.
Such  broad  and  diverse  ownership  demonstrates 
the truly global nature of humanitarian solidarity. It is 
through our collective action and continued support for 
those  reforms  that  we  will  succeed  in  improving  the 
global  humanitarian  system  and  ultimately  provide 
relief to those who need it the most.
The President: I now call on the representative of 
Thailand to introduce draft resolution A/71/L.33.
Ms.  Jariyadham  (Thailand):  On  behalf  of  the 
Group  of  77  and  China,  I  have  the  distinct  honour  to 
introduce to the General Assembly the draft resolution 
entitled  “International  cooperation  on  humanitarian 
assistance in the field of natural disasters, from relief 
to development”, as contained in document A/71/L.33.
As  we  introduce  the  draft  resolution  again  this 
year, the Group of 77 and China continue to reaffirm 
the 
in 
providing assistance to countries and peoples affected 
by  natural  disasters,  in  accordance  with  resolution 
46/182 and the guiding principles for the strengthening 
of  the  coordination  of  the  emergency  humanitarian 
assistance  provided  by  the  United  Nations  system, 
while also recognizing that the States affected have the 
primary responsibility for the initiation, organization, 
coordination  and 
implementation  of  humanitarian 
assistance within their territories.
international  cooperation 
importance  of 
New  elements  have  been  added  to  this  year’s 
text  so  as  to  reinforce  the  essence  of  the  draft 
resolution,  in  particular  to  seek  strengthened  support 
for  capacity-  and  resilience-building  in  the  affected 
States  and  communities,  as  well  as  the  accelerated 
implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster 
Risk  Reduction  2015-2030.  It  also  seeks  to  promote 
inclusive  participation  and  non-discrimination,  and 
to  enhance  the  leadership  of  those  in  vulnerable 
situations,  in  particular  women  and  persons  with 
disabilities,  taking  into  account  the  fact  that  they 
often  are  disproportionately  affected  in  humanitarian 
settings and have less access to humanitarian assistance 
in response to their differing needs.
In closing, the Group of 77 and China would like 
to thank the representative of Morocco for successfully 
coordinating  the  negotiations  on  this  draft  resolution. 
We also appreciate the constructive spirit and invaluable 
support shown by all Member States in the interest of 
arriving at this final text. It is our hope that the draft 
resolution will be adopted by consensus once again at 
this seventy-first session of the General Assembly.
16-42340
5/26
A/71/PV.56 
08/12/2016
Mr.  Puchkov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  The  topic  of  my  statement  is  the  growing 
role  played  by  Russia  in  the  international  system 
of  emergency  and  humanitarian  response  and  the 
prospects for its development at the present stage.
in 
the 
Humankind 
twenty-first  century 
is 
encountering  major  threats  of  a  global  nature.  The 
number  and  scale  of  natural  disasters,  earthquakes, 
floods, 
tsunamis,  volcanic  eruptions,  hurricanes, 
droughts,  wildfire  and  other  disasters  are  growing. 
Climate  change  worldwide,  ecological  problems, 
urbanization  and  ageing  infrastructure  exacerbate 
those  negative  trends,  which,  in  turn,  heightens  the 
scale  of  the  losses  and  undermines  the  livelihoods 
of  people  in  vast  swathes  of  territory.  Growing  man-
made risks cause grave accidents. The introduction of 
digital  technology  and  modern-day  communications 
into  our  lives  poses  additional  dangers.  The  global 
terrorist  threat  is  gripping  more  and  more  regions; 
armed conflicts are escalating; and extremism is being 
fuelled. That leads to large flows of migrants and grave 
humanitarian crises.
Practical  experience  demonstrates  the  fact  that 
the  repercussions  of  major  disasters  could  be  of  such 
magnitude  that  even  the  most  developed  State  would 
find  it  difficult  to  effectively  and  promptly  deal  with 
them  alone,  hence  the  issues  involved  in  fine-tuning 
the  international  system  of  emergency  humanitarian 
response take on particular significance. The Russian 
Federation is open to the world. We are willing to build 
relations with other States on the basis of trust, respect, 
equitable partnership and mutual assistance.
Russia  acknowledges  the  need  to  build  a  fair 
international  system,  namely,  a  system  based  upon 
collective foundations for tackling international issues 
in  line  with  the  norms  of  international  law,  with  a 
growing  central  coordinating  role  to  be  played  by 
the  United  Nations.  International  cooperation  aimed 
at  preventing  and  overcoming  emergencies,  fires 
and  disasters  in  present-day  conditions  fosters  the 
bringing  together  of  peoples  and  helps  to  normalize 
and  harmonize  relations  among  countries.  That  helps 
to  build  good-neighbourly  relations  and  promotes  the 
achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
Currently,  in  Russia,  under  the  guidance  of  our 
President,  Vladimir  Vladimirovich  Putin,  there  is 
active  capacity-building  of  a  unified  State  system  for 
preventing and overcoming emergencies. Our Ministry 
for Emergency Situations is at the head of that system 
and  also  deals  with  the  crafting  and  implementing 
of  State  policy  aimed  at  protecting  secure  and  safe 
livelihoods at the federal, regional and local levels.
Our  Ministry  for  Emergency  Situations  has,  on  a 
standby  footing,  a  multidimensional,  multi-purpose 
fire  rescue  department  as  well  as  others.  They  can 
work independently over lengthy periods of time, and 
they  can  tackle  a  host  of  issues,  including  rescuing 
people,  extinguishing  fires,  addressing  emergencies 
and providing assistance to victims. Our Ministry has 
its  own  multipurpose  aircraft  forces  that  can  quickly 
deliver rescuers, doctors, equipment and humanitarian 
supplies, not only to all regions throughout the vastness 
of  Russia,  but  to  any  part  of  the  world.  This  enables 
wildfires to be successfully addressed and for the most 
complex emergency tasks to be tackled.
At  the  moment,  only  the  units  belonging  to 
Russia’s Ministry for Emergency Situations have been 
accredited  all  over  the  world  by  the  United  Nations 
International  Search  and  Rescue  Advisory  Group 
(INSARAG) as search-and-rescue teams that meet the 
highest international standards. We have also received 
accreditation  from  the  World  Health  Organization  for 
our international response through field hospitals and 
emergency medical brigades.
In recent years, Russian rescuers have carried out 
more than 450 international operations, including some 
300  major,  significant  initiatives  that  met  the  needs 
of  the  international  humanitarian  community.  During 
those  operations  we  worked  with  rescuers  and  with 
specialists  in  crisis  management  from  almost  every 
country in the world. Millions of people in disaster zones 
received  practical  assistance  from  Russian  rescuers. 
This  year  alone,  the  Russian  Ministry  for  Emergency 
Situations has implemented more than 40 international 
humanitarian  operations,  helping  over  10  countries 
in different parts of the world, and millions of people 
who  suffered  different  forms  of  disasters  received 
emergency  assistance.  In  recent  years,  our  Ministry 
has carried out humanitarian and rescue operations in 
Afghanistan, Israel, Italy, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, 
Yemen,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
Lebanon,  Macedonia,  Nepal,  Pakistan,  Portugal  and 
many other countries around the world.
Russia 
accepts 
to 
eliminate the consequences of devastating earthquakes 
and  catastrophic  floods  and  to  fight  forest  fires  on 
international 
assistance 
6/26 
16-42340
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.56
its  territory.  This  has  enabled  us  to  gain  valuable 
experience, draw the necessary conclusions, modernize 
the Russian rescue forces and adopt their development 
plan for up to 2020 and beyond.
Furthermore,  Russia  is  a  reliable  donor  to  the 
United  Nations  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund. 
Our total annual contribution reaches over $10 million. 
We  provide  experts  to  the  United  Nations  Disaster 
Assessment  and  Coordination  Team.  We  sponsor  the 
preparation and participation of experts from developing 
countries in field missions. Our Ministry for Emergency 
Situations 
the  methodology 
of  INSARAG 
the  Commonwealth  of 
Independent  States.  We  implement  capacity-building 
projects of the World Health Organization in the field 
of emergency preparedness.
throughout 
actively 
promotes 
to 
The  Russian  Federation  is  becoming  one  of  the 
largest  donors  to  the  United  Nations  World  Food 
Programme, 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  and  to  the  United  Nations  Office  for  the 
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. We are robustly 
engaged  with  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Refugees as well.
Our  Ministry  for  Emergency  Situations  is  a 
strategic  partner  of  the  International  Civil  Defence 
Organization and we play a key role in its strengthening 
and development. In the last three years alone, Russia, 
through  international  organizations,  funnelled  more 
than  $250  million  to  address  the  repercussions  of 
humanitarian crises and to provide emergency food and 
medical and other aid to victims. We plan to continue 
this work. The Ministry actively shares best practices 
in  addressing  emergency  management  and  prevention 
with  our  partners 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation 
Organization, the BRICS nations, and the Asia-Pacific 
Economic Cooperation, inter alia.
in 
We support the adoption by the General Assembly 
of the draft resolution entitled “Persistent legacy of the 
Chernobyl disaster.” Russia will continue its efforts to 
achieve  socioeconomic  development  in  areas  affected 
by  radioactive  fallout.  We  shall  continue  to  lend 
practical  assistance  to  the  victims  and  to  share  best 
practices  in  the  elimination  of  the  repercussions  of 
similar man-made disasters.
President  Vladimir  Putin,  speaking  from  this 
rostrum  in  September  2015,  noted  the  need  for  the 
international  community  to  provide  comprehensive 
support  for  “countries  in  difficulties” (A/70/PV.13,  p. 
26).  But  he  stressed  that  any  assistance  to  sovereign 
States must not be imposed, it “must be offered rather 
than imposed, and only in accordance with the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations”  (ibid.).  He  said  that  “Russia 
believes  in  the  huge  potential  of  the  United  Nations” 
(ibid., p. 27) and called for leadership by shared values 
and  for  efforts  to  be  pooled  to  tackle  the  problems 
we face.
The  Russian  Federation  is  willing  to  actively 
participate  in  the  efforts  to  develop  an  international 
system  of  emergency  humanitarian  response  under 
the auspices of the United Nations. In that regard, we 
propose that the following areas be addressed.
First, Russia supports the idea of strengthening and 
enlarging  the  central  coordinating  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  international  humanitarian  activities.  At 
the  same  time,  we  must  safeguard  the  core  principles 
of  humanity,  neutrality,  impartiality,  independence, 
respect  for  sovereignty  and  the  consent  of  recipient 
States.  Those  are  universal  ideals  and  bring  together 
all countries worldwide. We believe that the consistent 
implementation  of  Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster 
Risk Reduction 2015-2030 should be a key element for 
bolstering the international humanitarian system.
Secondly,  the  Russian  Federation  proposes  the 
construction of a new economic model for the provision 
of  international  humanitarian  assistance.  We  believe 
that the basis for the model must be that the countries 
that stoke conflicts must bear the main responsibility, 
including financial responsibility, for assisting refugees 
and forcibly displaced persons and for helping all social 
institutions to resume their operations.
We must also reduce administrative expenditures. 
Right  now  the  share  of  these  budgetary  costs  for 
humanitarian  projects  of  international  organizations 
could  reach  up  to  70  per  cent.  It  turns  out  that  the 
international  donor  community 
largely  feeds  not 
starving  populations,  but  rather  individual  charitable 
organizations. The need for international humanitarian 
aid has increased more than sixfold over the past decade. 
Expenditures to address natural disasters constitute not 
more than 5 per cent of the international humanitarian 
budget.  All  the  other  needs  relate  to  conflicts  and 
protracted  crises,  which  have  fuelled  the  rise  in 
terrorism  and  extremism  and  caused  major  migration 
flows. We think that the settlement and prevention of 
conflicts at an early stage are the main way to reduce 
the burden on the international humanitarian system.
16-42340
7/26
A/71/PV.56 
08/12/2016
this  directly  determines 
Thirdly,  the  Russian  Ministry  for  Emergency 
Situations proposes that additional measures are taken 
to  improve  the  quality  of  international  assistance. 
We  must  provide  targeted  assistance  and  speed  up 
our  response,  since 
the 
effectiveness  of  the  assistance.  We  must  ensure  the 
maximum autonomy of the international community’s 
response units so as to reduce the burden on affected 
States, which need to integrate international assistance 
into  national  efforts  to  deal  with  the  repercussions  of 
disasters. We must be willing to solve a wide range of 
humanitarian  challenges  and  to  achieve  the  ultimate 
goal,  which  includes  saving  human  lives,  rebuilding 
livelihoods  and  alleviating  human  suffering.  In  that 
regard,  the  Ministry  deems  that  work  to  set  uniform 
minimum  standards  and  international  accreditation 
for response units, beginning with INSARAG and the 
World Health Organization, is of growing importance. 
And there are good prospects here.
This  year,  Russia  accredited  yet  another  Siberian 
search-and-rescue unit and two field hospitals. We plan 
to persevere in this work in the Far East under United 
Nations auspices, including by lending assistance in the 
preparation  and  conduct  of  international  certification 
for  rescue  and  medical  units  of  other  countries.  Our 
rescuer  colleagues  are  called  upon  to  actively  engage 
in that work.
We  must  address  the  growing  social  demand  to 
meet the basic needs of affected populations. Refugees 
and  internally  displaced  persons  need  to  be  provided 
with adequate accommodation, including water supply, 
sanitation and disposal of household waste, and other 
assistance  to  meet  the  needs  of  people,  especially 
children, women and the elderly. Such approaches will 
enable  the  building  over  the  long  term,  under  United 
Nations auspices, of a sound capacity for an effective 
international  response  on  the  basis  of  autonomous 
high-tech  modules  in  different  areas  that  can  easily 
be  integrated  with  one  another  and  with  the  national 
efforts of affected States.
Fourthly, the Russian Federation deems it necessary 
to step up efforts to improve the international normative, 
legal  and  contractual  frameworks.  That  would  allow 
the  rapid  dispatch  to  disaster  areas  of  United  Nations 
certified international response units and humanitarian 
supplies.  They  must  cover  humanitarian  assistance 
delivered  under  United  Nations  auspices,  including 
prompt  consent  for  operational  permits  for  aircraft 
overflights,  visa-free  travel  of  emergency  staff  and 
other  specialists,  streamlined  customs  procedures 
and unimpeded entry of canine teams, equipment and 
medicines. We propose creating a United Nations special 
expert group for the elaboration of such documents.
Fifthly, 
the  Russian  Ministry  for  Emergency 
Situations  proposes  that  assistance  be  organized  for 
developing countries to train national fire rescue forces 
and  civil-protection  services.  We  need  to  build  their 
capacity  to  independently  manage  their  own  major 
emergencies and other disasters, especially at the initial 
stages. Instead of trying to provide for the millions of 
refugees in Europe, we need to create opportunities for 
them to remain in their homes, or at least in those areas 
where the cultural ambiance and the social and climatic 
conditions are similar to those they left. It is especially 
important  for  developing  countries  to  acknowledge 
their  role.  They  must  not  be  passive  recipients  of 
international  aid,  but  must  actively  participate  in 
those processes.
We  must  develop  emergency  response  capacities, 
but  we  must  also  improve  the  disaster  prevention 
mechanisms.  We  see  great  promise  in  the  risk-
insurance programmes and in the introduction of new 
modern  mechanisms  of  warnings  and  prevention  in 
emergencies,  fires  and  other  disasters  and  to  manage 
risks. We need to give greater attention to awareness- 
raising  in  public  education,  paying  special  attention 
to  children,  to  women  and  to  persons  working  in 
potentially dangerous sites, so that people are trained 
to deal with emergencies and disasters and a culture of 
healthy and safe livelihoods prevails.
Sixthly, Russia deems it necessary to fine-tune the 
coordination of international assistance. In that regard, 
the  Russian  Federation  has  put  forward  an  initiative 
whereby the national and regional crises centres taking 
part  in  international  humanitarian  operations  would 
come together in a single global network and work out 
harmonized operational standards. We believe that such 
a network would make for more effective cooperation 
in the exchange and analysis of information, especially 
in the first days and hours following the outbreak of a 
major disaster. That would be important in determining 
international  assistance  requirements  and  also  in 
improving the quality and promptness of the decisions 
taken, in both the countries in need of assistance and 
those that provide assistance in disaster areas.
In this context, the Russian Ministry for Emergency 
Situations has built a national network bringing together 
8/26 
16-42340
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.56
more  than  90  crisis  centres  and  more  than  2,000 
organizations  engaged  in  monitoring  and  forecasting 
emergencies,  wildfires  and  other  disasters.  We  are 
building the technical capabilities of Russia’s National 
Centre  for  Crisis  Management.  Its  organizational 
structure  is  being  streamlined.  The  future  global 
network  of  crisis  centres  for  the  coordination  of 
humanitarian  assistance  across  the  Commonwealth  of 
Independent  States  has  established  effective  working 
contacts with the emergency services of border States, 
as well as the coordination centres of countries of the 
Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization,  the  European 
Union and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
The  International  Monitoring  and  Coordination 
Centre of the International Civil Defence Organization 
and 
the  Emergency  Relief  Coordination  Centre 
in  Geneva  of  the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA)  were  set  up  and  are 
operating  with  technical  and  financial  support  from 
Russia. We further need to implement initiatives under 
the  leadership  of  the  United  Nations.  As  an  initial 
practical step, we propose that a working group should 
be  established  under  OCHA  auspices  to  craft  single 
protocols  for  the  exchange  of  information,  minimum 
standards  and  the  accreditation  of  crisis  centres,  as 
INSARAG  has  done,  for  integration  into  the  global 
network. The participation of the leading world Powers 
in  the  activities  of  this  working  group  will  help  to 
promote  the  exchange  of  best  practices,  to  fine-tune 
the  entire  system  of  exchange  of  best  practices,  to 
efficiently allocate roles among the major crisis centres 
and to further synergize efforts.
In recent years, the role of the Russian Federation 
has increased considerably in the international system 
of  providing  emergency  assistance.  Russia  intends 
to  continue  to  build  its  capacity  in  this  sphere  and  to 
promote its participation in international humanitarian 
operations  and  projects,  primarily  those  carried  out 
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations.  We  believe 
that  our  humanitarian  action  will  help  give  hope  and 
confidence  in  the  future  to  ordinary  people  living  on 
various continents. This will make our world a better, 
more comfortable, safer and kinder place.
In  our  opinion,  owing  to  the  magnitude  of  the 
humanitarian  issues  currently  faced,  the  coordinating 
role  of  the  United  Nations  must  be  strengthened 
significantly and the various efforts — including those 
of all the State institutions and civic associations of the 
developed  and  other  countries —  must  be  united.  We 
also  need  to  actively  engage  all  civic  institutions  and 
voluntary organizations in those efforts. Only through 
close  international  cooperation  can  we  successfully 
tackle the major global problems we face in international 
emergency humanitarian response.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  the  observer  of  the 
European Union.
Mr. Vale de Almeida (European Union): I have the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union and 
its member States. The candidate countries Turkey, the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Serbia  and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization 
and Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align  themselves  with  this 
statement
Today,  the  scale  of  human  suffering  is  greater 
than  at  any  time  since  the  United  Nations  was 
founded. Currently, 130 million people are dependent 
on  humanitarian  assistance  for  their  protection  and 
survival  from  conflict  and  disasters;  more 
than 
65  million  people  have  been  displaced  as  they  flee 
violence or persecution — the highest number since the 
Second World War; half of the displaced are children.
Today, armed conflicts are tearing apart vast parts 
of the world. Millions of people are exposed to violence 
and  live  with  less  than  adequate  water,  food,  shelter 
and  health  services.  Millions  of  children  are  out  of 
school. International humanitarian law is increasingly 
disregarded  by  parties  to  conflicts.  Hospitals  are 
being  attacked,  and  patients,  doctors,  nurses  and 
humanitarian  workers  targeted,  often  killed.  Natural 
disasters  continue  to  cause  important  human  and 
economic losses. Since 2008, an average of 26.4 million 
people per year have been displaced from their homes 
by disasters brought on by natural hazards.
are 
a  global 
phenomenon.  They  affect  not  only  a  large  number  of 
people,  but  their  repercussions  are  felt  way  beyond 
the  borders  of  affected  areas.  They  are  also  much 
more protracted, meaning that it is not good enough to 
bring  food,  shelter  and  medical  assistance  to  people; 
we also need to bring jobs, schools and hope. The gap 
between  humanitarian  needs  and  the  resources  and 
capacity of response continues to increase. The world 
today spends around $25 billion to provide life-saving 
assistance to millions of people devastated by wars and 
natural disasters. While this amount is 12 times greater 
Today,  humanitarian 
crises 
16-42340
9/26
A/71/PV.56 
08/12/2016
than  15  years  ago,  never  before  has  generosity  been 
so  insufficient.  Over  the  past  few  years  conflicts  and 
natural disasters have led to fast-growing numbers of 
people in need, and the funding gap for humanitarian 
action amounts to an estimated $15 billion.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
are  committed  to  assuming  their  part  of  the  shared 
responsibility  of  the  international  community  to  save 
lives,  alleviate  suffering  and  preserve  human  dignity. 
In  recent  months,  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  have  made  great  progress  in  Sendai,  Addis 
Ababa, New York, Paris and Istanbul, where the first-
ever World Humanitarian Summit was held. Important 
commitments were made by all relevant stakeholders. 
Now is the time to turn talk into action and to implement 
those commitments.
The  EU  and  its  member  States  welcome  the 
powerful  vision  set  out  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
Agenda  for  Humanity  (A/70/709),  which  should  now 
progress  and  deliver  concrete  results  in  a  number 
of  key  areas.  We  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the 
humanitarian  principles  of  humanity,  neutrality, 
impartiality  and  independence  and  to  preventing  the 
politicization and instrumentalization of humanitarian 
aid. Humanitarian action cannot substitute for political 
solutions.  Respect  for 
international  humanitarian 
law,  including  safeguarding  humanitarian  access  and 
combating  impunity  for  violations,  should  top  the 
international agenda.
Protecting  civilians  and  aid  workers  is  a  priority 
today, more than ever before. The entire international 
community  needs  to  speak  out  and  systematically 
condemn  violations  of 
international  humanitarian 
law.  Serious  violations  of  international  humanitarian 
law  cause  intolerable  human  suffering  and  aggravate 
humanitarian  crises.  When  principled  humanitarian 
action  is  respected  by  all  parties  to  a  conflicts, 
humanitarian  workers  can  operate  in  even  the  most 
tense,  dangerous  and  volatile  theatres  of  war.  When 
international  humanitarian 
and  principled 
humanitarian action are not respected. then people are 
abandoned, the notion of protection loses meaning and 
humanity is flouted.
law 
international humanitarian law, including the principles 
of  distinction,  proportionality  and  precaution,  as  also 
reflected in customary international law. And in cases 
of  serious  violations  of  international  humanitarian 
law,  accountability  is  of  the  greatest  importance. 
Full,  prompt,  impartial  and  effective  investigations 
are needed, including through use of the International 
Criminal Court as a court of last resort.
We must continue our efforts to ensure that aid is 
more effective and more accountable with respect to the 
people it is intended to serve. The EU and its member 
States reiterate their continued commitment to putting 
people  at  the  centre  of  their  humanitarian  action.  We 
must  work  together  to  ensure  that  the  humanitarian 
protection agenda and related action genuinely deliver 
to  those  most  vulnerable  and  most  in  need.  Women, 
children, older persons and people with disabilities are 
disproportionally vulnerable to the effects of disasters 
and conflicts. Humanitarian operations must take into 
account their specific needs and capacities and involve 
them throughout the response cycle.
Also,  humanitarian  aid  and  the  humanitarian 
system  overall  must  become  much  more  efficient 
through improvements by all actors, including donors 
and  operators.  That  is  not  about  saving  money,  but 
about  saving  lives  with  dignity  and  being  more 
effective.  Donors  should  not  simply  give  more,  but 
give  better,  through  greater  flexibility,  providing 
increased  predictability  and  reducing  as  much  as 
possible the administrative barriers. At the same time, 
aid  organizations  should  reciprocate  with  greater 
transparency  and  cost-consciousness,  by  employing 
the  best  and  most  efficient  aid  modalities  and  by 
recognizing  the  comparative  advantages  of  local, 
national and international implementing organizations 
for the delivery of services.
There  must  be  coherence  and  cooperation  among 
humanitarian  and  development  programming  and 
financing, in accordance with the respective mandates, 
aiming  at  common  results  in  reducing  need  and 
vulnerability over multiple years and based on a common 
understanding of the context of each actor’s operational 
strengths and planning and programming processes.
The  EU  and  its  member  States  will  continue  to 
advocate  strongly  and  consistently  for  respect  for 
international law, including international humanitarian 
law,  refugee  law  and  international  human  rights  law. 
All  parties  to  armed  conflicts  must  comply  with 
Last  but  not  least,  we  need  to  continue  working 
to  reduce  humanitarian  needs.  The  best  way  to  deal 
with  growing  humanitarian  needs  is  to  address  the 
root causes. That requires strong determination at the 
highest  level  of  global  political  leadership  to  prevent 
10/26 
16-42340
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.56
and  resolve  conflicts.  We  should  not  forget  that 
humanitarian aid can never be the solution to a crisis. We 
urge the international community to work on political 
solutions to put an end to ongoing conflicts, which is 
the only way to put an end to the human suffering that 
follows in their wake.
There  is  also  a  need  to  increase  investment  in 
disaster risk reduction, especially in the most vulnerable 
communities  and  countries,  integrating  the  latest 
scientific  achievements  to  improve  preparedness  and 
response. We must continue efforts to build resilience, 
as  underlined  in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  the  commitments  of  the  Sendai 
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction.
The European Union and its member States remain 
collectively the world’s largest humanitarian donor. Our 
citizens’  solidarity  with  those  in  need  has  withstood 
economic hardship in much of Europe. It is again being 
tested  by  the  migrant  and  refugee  crisis.  We  remain 
committed  to  providing  protection  to  those  fleeing 
persecution at home. We have stepped up humanitarian 
aid and civil protection resources to match the growing 
needs  of  refugees.  We  will  continue  to  enhance  our 
humanitarian  aid  to  affected  populations  in  third 
countries, based only on their needs and vulnerabilities. 
The objective of our humanitarian aid is to save lives 
and alleviate suffering, wherever it is found. We shall 
continue doing our part in a principled manner, and we 
count on others to continue or to start doing the same.
Pecsteen 
de 
(Belgium), 
Buytswerve 
Mr. 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The challenges facing the humanitarian community 
today  are  enormous.  As  the  General  Assembly,  we 
need to contribute to that work through the resolutions 
we  are  adopting  today  —  by  further  strengthening 
the  agreed  framework  for  humanitarian  action  in 
the  successor  draft  resolution  to  46/182,  which  was 
introduced  and  skilfully  facilitated,  sometimes  under 
difficult circumstances, by one of our member States, 
Sweden  (A/71/L.32);  by  strongly  recalling  the  need 
to ensure the safety and security of humanitarian and 
United Nations personnel through the draft resolution 
introduced  by  Slovakia  on  behalf  of  the  28  member 
States  of  the  European  Union  (A/71/L.34);  and  by 
better addressing the consequences of natural disasters, 
through the draft resolution introduced by Thailand on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China and ably facilitated 
by Morocco (A/71/L.33). We thank Ola and Omar for 
their remarkable service.
Allow  me  to  emphasize  that  these  and  the  other 
humanitarian  resolutions  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly  here  today  have  been  and  should  remain 
genuinely  consensual,  as  a  testimony  to  our  shared 
humanity.  Twenty-five  years  after  the  adoption  of 
resolution 46/182 by the Assembly, our united voice is as 
necessary as ever. In that spirit, facilitators have made 
their  utmost  effort  to  secure  agreement  in  good  faith 
and in a transparent manner, resolutions expressing our 
common  views.  We  must  support  that  effort.  We  owe 
it  to  the  people  who  rely  on  humanitarian  assistance. 
We owe it to the people who risk their lives on a daily 
basis in order to save the lives of others. They need the 
collective, unequivocal and unqualified support of the 
entire General Assembly.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  Before 
giving the floor to the next speaker, I will give the floor 
to the representative of Greece on a point of order.
Mr.  Christodoulidis  (Greece):  Regarding 
the 
way  that  the  representative  of  the  Russian  Federation 
referred to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 
my delegation would like to remind the Assembly that 
pursuant to Security Council resolution 817 (1993) and 
the  subsequent  General  Assembly  resolution  47/225, 
dated 27 April 1993, that country will be provisionally 
referred to for all purposes within the United Nations 
as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia pending 
settlement  of  the  difference  that  has  arisen  over  the 
name of that State.
Mr. Ismail (Brunei Darussalam): I have the honour 
of delivering this statement on behalf of the 10 member 
States  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN),  namely,  Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia,  Myanmar, 
the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Viet Nam and my 
own country, Brunei Darussalam.
We  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  comprehensive  report  on  the  current  status  of 
the  humanitarian  assistance  requirements,  critical 
recommendations and the way forward in dealing with 
the  numerous  crises  facing  our  world  today.  We  note 
with concern the growing number of people who require 
assistance, and now more than ever, those unfortunate 
victims of circumstance need our help.
16-42340
11/26
A/71/PV.56 
08/12/2016
The  ASEAN  region  experiences  its  share  of 
disasters,  and  therefore  disaster  management  remains 
a  key  priority  for  us.  At  the  recent  ASEAN  Summit 
in  Laos,  ASEAN  leaders  adopted  the  Declaration  on 
One  ASEAN,  One  Response:  ASEAN  Responding 
to  Disasters  as  One  in  the  Region  and  Outside  the 
Region.  Its  purpose  is  to  achieve  faster  responses, 
mobilize  greater  resources  and  establish  stronger 
coordination,  so  as  to  ensure  a  collective  regional 
response to disasters. With its implementation based on 
the  ASEAN  Agreement  on  Disaster  Management  and 
Emergency Response, the Declaration further affirmed 
the  ASEAN  Coordinating  Centre  for  Humanitarian 
Assistance  on  Disaster  Management  as  the  primary 
ASEAN  regional  coordinating  agency  on  disaster 
management and emergency response, and endorsed the 
ASEAN Emergency Response and Assessment Team as 
the official emergency response resource of ASEAN.
The One ASEAN, One Response Declaration was 
recently  put  into  action  during  the  ASEAN  Regional 
Disaster  Emergency  Response  Simulation  Exercise, 
jointly  organized  by  Brunei  Darussalam  and  the 
ASEAN Humanitarian Assistance Centre, which tested 
ASEAN  communication  capacities  in  coordinating 
assistance  through  the  ASEAN  Standard  Operating 
Procedure  for  Regional  Standby  Arrangements  and 
Coordination  of  Joint  Disaster  Relief  and  Emergency 
Response Operations in a table-top setting. The exercise 
also included testing the coordination between ASEAN 
sectoral  bodies  and  the  United  Nations  Office  for  the 
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), which 
yielded valuable lessons on the inter-operability of the 
host country and international responders.
With 
regard 
to  other  aspects  of  ASEAN 
humanitarian  assistance  efforts,  earlier  this  year  we 
inaugurated the ASEAN Regional Mine Action Centre 
in Phnom Penh, which will serve as a regional centre 
of  excellence  in  sharing  expertise  and  best  practices 
to address the humanitarian aspects of landmines and 
explosive remnants of war.
Those are just some of the examples that ASEAN 
has been working on to provide humanitarian assistance 
and disaster relief to those in need. Since establishing 
dialogue-partner  relations 
in  2006,  ASEAN  and 
the  United  Nations  have  cooperated  on  a  wide 
range  of  issues,  including  humanitarian  assistance, 
which  features  significantly  in  the  Plan  of  Action  to 
Implement  the  Joint  Declaration  on  Comprehensive 
Partnership  between  ASEAN  and  the  United  Nations 
(2016-2020),  adopted  recently.  ASEAN  has  also  been 
actively  aligning  its  disaster  risk  management  efforts 
with  the  implementation,  monitoring  and  reporting 
arrangements  of  relevant  United  Nation  frameworks, 
including  the  Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster  Risk 
Reduction and the Sustainable Development Goals.
At  a  time  when  many  are  suffering  from  natural 
and  human-induced  disasters,  ASEAN  commends  the 
efforts of the Secretary-General to convene the World 
Humanitarian  Summit  in  Istanbul  on  23  and  24  May, 
which brought Member States together in discussions on 
how to save lives, alleviate suffering and make progress 
on the way forward the Agenda for Humanity. In that 
vein, ASEAN strives to respond to disasters and adopt a 
programmatic and inclusive approach to institutionalize 
resilience  by  engaging  peoples  and  communities, 
investing  in  joint  preparedness,  enhancing  the  role  of 
regional  organizations  and  networks  and  serving  as  a 
global  nexus  for  knowledge-sharing  and  innovation 
exchange in that field.
In  that  regard,  we  look  forward  to  working 
with  the  United  Nations  under  the  framework  of  the 
ASEAN-United Nations Joint Strategic Plan of Action 
on  Disaster  Management  for  2016-2020  to  support 
the  ASEAN  vision  for  disaster  and  climate-resilient 
communities,  reducing  disaster  losses  and  to  better 
respond  to  humanitarian  disasters  in  a  collective 
manner, as reflected in the Declaration on One ASEAN, 
One Response.
ASEAN  remains  committed  to  ensuring  that  our 
national  and  regional  efforts  continue  to  complement 
and  contribute  positively  to  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations,  especially  OCHA.  Moreover,  ASEAN  will 
continue to do its best to strengthen and improve our 
coordination work and better prepare ourselves for any 
future humanitarian and disaster relief needs.
Mr.  Lal  (India):  It  is  my  privilege  to  deliver  a 
joint  statement  on  behalf  of  India  and  Sweden  on  the 
issue  of  humanitarian  and  disaster  relief  assistance. 
In  the  interest  of  time,  I  will  read  out  parts  of  our 
joint statement.
India and Sweden have enjoyed a strong partnership 
on this joint initiative for the past several years, sharing 
a  profound  commitment  regarding  the  international 
humanitarian 
system.  The  magnitude, 
geographical  expanse  and  frequency  of  humanitarian 
crises  that  require  international  assistance  around  the 
world are unparalleled. Their impacts are being felt far 
response 
12/26 
16-42340
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.56
and  wide.  The  international  humanitarian  system  is 
falling significantly short of the challenges posed at a 
time when humanitarian needs have quadrupled in just 
10 years.
Humanitarian  crises  can  have  multiple  causes, 
ranging  from  unexpected  natural  disasters,  to  armed 
conflicts  that  are  frequently  situations  of  civil  wars 
associated with terrorism, to outbreaks of pandemics. 
They all require our common efforts to provide urgent 
relief for our most vulnerable fellow men and women.
The landmark collective will displayed last year in 
finalizing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  gives 
hope that the international community can rise to the 
challenges  that  are  increasingly  interconnected  and 
have  implications  for  us  all.  The  Sendai  Framework 
for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 is a significant 
collective effort to work towards the goals of reducing 
the  impact  on  societies  and  economies,  and  building 
resilience through enhanced international cooperation. 
The World Humanitarian Summit held earlier this year 
was another significant initiative.
The  United  Nations  humanitarian  agencies, 
along  with  many  other  stakeholders,  have  been  doing 
commendable work in addressing humanitarian needs 
in  various  contexts.  However,  attempts  to  address  all 
of the different forms of humanitarian challenges with 
a  single,  unified  approach  would  be  ineffective  and 
inefficient. The identification of complementarity and 
greater  coordination  among  the  various  humanitarian 
agencies  needs  careful  consideration.  Humanitarian 
response  efforts  must  be  context-based  and  make 
use  of  local  capacities.  There  is  enormous  potential 
in  strengthening  local  actors,  who  are  often  based  in 
civil society. We have witnessed their committed and 
sometimes  heroic  contributions  to  an  effective  and 
principled humanitarian response.
It  is  estimated  that  there  are  currently  more  than 
20 million refugees throughout the world, three fourths 
of whom come from just 11 countries. Seven countries 
host more than half of all refugees. Nearly 90 per cent 
of all refugees are hosted in developing countries. That 
shows that there is a need for some course correction 
and reforms at the United Nations.
When 
global 
needs 
humanitarian 
reach 
unprecedented  levels,  the  international  community’s 
efforts 
to  mobilize  adequate  resources  must  be 
increased 
redoubled.  We  underline 
the  need  for 
flexibility  for  humanitarian  actors  to  use  the  funding 
they receive so that every dollar is spent efficiently and 
according to humanitarian needs. We urge new donors 
to  join  the  commendable  efforts  of  existing  ones. 
While adequate funding for the humanitarian response 
remains a significant challenge, an emphasis on longer-
term planning is also necessary to help build resilience 
in countries where that is needed. Building resilience 
ultimately  leads  to  a  decreased  need  of  large-scale 
humanitarian responses.
Issues  of  concern  also  include  those  relating  to 
access  for  and  protection  of  humanitarian  workers 
and the more vulnerable sections of society, including 
women  and  children.  Those  require  serious  attention. 
We  welcome  the  draft  resolution  on  the  safety  and 
security  of  humanitarian  personnel  and  protection  of 
United Nations personnel (A/71/L.34), which is before 
us for adoption today.
In recent times, there have been attempts to blur the 
categories of those impacted by crises, such as refugees, 
migrants  and  internally  displaced  persons  (IDPs).  All 
those are distinct categories because of the reasons why 
people  had  to  leave  their  homes.  Every  international 
framework drawn up by the international community is 
also distinct for different categories, especially refugees 
and migrants. International cooperation is required, in 
view of the implications of the cross-border mobility of 
such individuals. IDPs are and must remain the priority 
of national jurisdiction.
We must recognize that humanitarian crises become 
acute and unmanageable in situations in which levels of 
development are relatively lower, with limited capacities 
to respond, manage and rebuild. Improving development 
levels invariably leads to crises being easier to manage. 
Therefore,  it  is  in  everyone’s  interest  —  including 
the  providers  of  assistance,  whether  for  development 
or  for  humanitarian  relief  —  to  invest  in  sustainable 
development  at  all  levels.  Stronger  partnerships  are 
needed  within  the  United  Nations  family  to  approach 
humanitarian and development challenges coherently.
India  has  always  been  forthcoming,  within  its 
ability  and  national  circumstance,  in  offering  relief 
and  reconstruction  assistance  according  to  the  needs 
and  requests  of  our  friends  and  partners.  In  recent 
years,  India  has  assisted  in  relief  efforts  in  a  number 
of  countries,  including,  for  instance,  its  neighbours 
that  have  been  affected  by  natural  disasters,  such  as 
Nepal, Sri Lanka, Maldives and Afghanistan, and those 
16-42340
13/26
A/71/PV.56 
08/12/2016
further  afield,  such  as  the  Philippines,  Fiji,  Yemen 
and  Somalia.  Those  efforts  have  ranged  from  the 
immediate supply of relief materials to the emergency 
evacuation of very large numbers of persons of various 
nationalities from danger zones. Last month, with the 
United  Nations  Office  for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction, 
India  co-hosted  the  Asian  Ministerial  Conference  on 
Disaster Risk Reduction in New Delhi. In August India 
also  hosted  the  meeting  of  the  Ministers  for  Disaster 
Management,  involving  Brazil,  Russia,  India,  China 
and South Africa.
the  world’s 
Sweden  remains  one  of 
largest 
humanitarian  donors,  contributing  to  nearly  every 
humanitarian  crisis  response  across  the  globe.  As 
a  strong  advocate  for  a  need-based,  non-political 
humanitarian  response  system,  Sweden  is  one  of  the 
single largest donors of unearmarked, core support to 
United  Nations  humanitarian  organizations.  Sweden 
is  also  a  key  policy  contributor  to  humanitarian 
affairs  and  a  dedicated  advocate  for  international 
humanitarian law and unimpeded humanitarian access. 
As  the  current  Chair  of  Call  to  Action  on  Protection 
from Gender-based Violence in Emergencies, Sweden 
promotes 
increased  protection  for  women,  girls, 
boys  and  men  in  humanitarian  crises.  Sweden  is  a 
long-standing  contributor 
to  humanitarian  reform 
and  a  dedicated  signatory  to  the  “grand  bargain”  for 
humanitarian  financing  with  a  view  towards  more 
effective, transparent and inclusive humanitarian aid.
As  we  work  towards  improving  the  international 
humanitarian architecture, the salience of the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
needs to be preserved. For assistance to be effective, it 
must be provided impartially, with the consent and at the 
request of the affected country. We therefore reaffirm 
that the primary responsibility for providing protection 
and humanitarian assistance in a crisis always lies with 
the affected State.
the 
international  community  and 
India  and  Sweden  reaffirm  that  humanitarian 
principles and international humanitarian law provide 
the  basis  for  humanitarian  assistance.  The  essence 
of  resolution  46/182  is  the  call  for  collective  efforts 
by 
the  United 
Nations in responding to humanitarian crises. We are 
committed  to  preserving  and  strengthening  respect 
for  and  adherence  to  the  humanitarian  principles  of 
humanity,  neutrality,  impartiality  and  independence. 
The  United  Nations  should  continue  to  play  a  central 
role  in  providing  leadership  and  coordination  in  the 
efforts  of  the  international  community  to  support  the 
strengthening of response capacity in a timely and cost-
effective manner.
Let  us  in  the  end  not  overlook  the  core  of  what 
we  are  talking  about:  human  beings.  The  essence  of 
humanitarian response is to save their lives, to alleviate 
their  suffering  and  to  maintain  their  dignity  in  the 
face of situations of natural disasters and violence. We 
call  on  all  States  to  respect  and  honour  international 
humanitarian  law  and  humanitarian  principles.  India 
and  Sweden  remain  committed  to  working  with  all 
parties to address the world’s humanitarian challenges 
in an effective and comprehensive manner.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now give 
the  floor  to  the  Permanent  Observer  of  the  Observer 
State of Palestine.
Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We 
have taken note of the report of the Secretary-General 
entitled “Assistance to the Palestinian people” (A/71/87), 
which  covers  the  period  from  April  2015  to  March 
2016. I thank all those who contributed to preparing the 
report,  which  sheds  light  on  the  quality  and  quantity 
of  the  services  and  assistance  provided  by  agencies 
and  programmes  to  the  Palestinian  people.  We  agree 
with most of what the report says about the assistance 
provided  by  the  United  Nations  to  the  Palestinian 
people,  but  we  reaffirm  the  need  to  distinguish 
between  rescue  operations  for  the  Palestinian  people 
and  activities  aimed  at  the  development  to  which  the 
Palestinian people aspire. The aid in question is purely 
humanitarian  and  is  aimed  at  dealing  with  urgent 
and  imminent  situations  in  a  timely  manner.  Those 
operations therefore assure a minimum level of what is 
required for minimum comforts of human life.
The development process, however, is a cumulative 
process  that  lays  the  foundation  for  stability  and 
humanitarian,  social  and  political  development  and 
strives  to  ensure  a  stable  and  sustainable  economic 
future  in  which  quality  of  life  is  an  objective,  rather 
than a process that simply maintains life support, as is 
the case today. Development is a process of investing 
in the future whereby dividends increase with time and 
the entire society benefits. In that context, we extend 
our  heartfelt  thanks  to  the  donors  and  the  United 
Nations agencies and programmes for their assistance 
to the Palestinian people in general, and especially to 
those living under the Israeli occupation.
14/26 
16-42340
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.56
is  suffering 
The  Palestinian  economy 
from 
deep-rooted  structural  defects  because  of  the  Israeli 
occupation, which has lasted for more than 50 years, as 
well as the policies and obstacles imposed by Israel, the 
occupying Power, that are impeding the development of 
the Palestinian economy. That is a clear violation of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development:
“States  are  strongly  urged  to  refrain  from 
promulgating and applying any unilateral economic, 
financial or trade measures not in accordance with 
international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  that  impede  the  full  achievement  of 
economic  and  social  development,  particularly  in 
developing countries.” (resolution 70/1, para. 30)
We  are  not  able  to  control  the  macroeconomic 
tools  —  monitoring  and  fiscal  policy  —  which  are 
the  two  main  tools  for  managing  the  macroeconomy 
so  as  to  reach  a  point  of  equilibrium.  An  example 
of  the  structural  anomalies  from  which  the  already 
vulnerable Palestinian economy suffers that negatively 
affects  its  general  performance  is  what  has  happened 
at the land crossings with the Hashemite Kingdom of 
Jordan  during  the  past  few  days.  Those  crossings  are 
completely  controlled  by  Israel.  Since  4  November, 
Israeli  customs  personnel  have  been  on  strike,  which 
has meant that exports from Palestine to the rest of the 
world have been reduced as much as 90 per cent. That 
is  a  huge  loss  in  accounting  terms,  and  the  economic 
losses are even greater.
In 2013, the World Bank evaluated the cost of the 
Israeli  occupation  of  Area  C,  which  constitutes  about 
61 per cent of the West Bank territory. That evaluation 
related  to  economic  sectors,  and  the  World  Bank 
estimated that, if restrictions in Area C were lifted, the 
gross domestic product would increase by 41 per cent, 
and the fiscal deficit would be reduced by 60 per cent.
We  are  determined  to  establish  a  Palestinian 
development plan for the period 2017 to 2022 that will 
enable us to move from an emergency rescue situation 
to  operations  that  will  really  permit  development  and 
make us more independent of donor funds. The national 
plan will accord with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development. To ensure the success of the plan, we call 
upon the Assembly to work alongside us with a text that 
takes into account our particular situation as a people 
under  occupation,  particularly  when  the  development 
programme is adopted. It is in that way that we can see 
genuine development that will lead to a better future, 
with no one left behind.
We are determined to overcome all obstacles; that is 
very clear. For 23 years now, since the peace agreement, 
we  have  been  able  to  establish  governmental  and 
non-governmental  organizations  capable  of  managing 
a modern State with great efficiency.
The  private  sector  in  Palestine  has  been  able 
to  build  the  model  city  of  Rawabi,  and  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon,  who  visited  the  town,  praised 
it. We have a banking sector that is recognized for the 
excellence of its performance and services in our part 
of the world. We have also ensured good management 
of  our  agricultural  resources,  which  have  managed 
to  reach  European  markets.  In  education,  we  provide 
free  education  services  to  the  end  of  the  secondary 
level.  The  illiteracy  rate  in  Palestine  is  the  lowest  in 
the world. During the past three years, the Palestinian 
Government has increased revenue by 60 per cent and 
reduced the deficit by more than 40 per cent, despite the 
reduction of foreign aid by 70 per cent over recent years.
The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for 
Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East  (UNRWA)  plans 
to  carry  out  a  global  study  with  the  Economic  and 
Social  Commission  for  Western  Asia,  covering  the 
Israeli  occupation  of  the  West  Bank,  including  East 
Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip. The study will assess the 
economic losses caused by the occupation that are being 
experienced by the Palestinian people. I am sure that, 
when  the  study  is  finished  and  published,  the  results 
will  be  shocking,  and  the  Assembly  will  realize  that 
total sum being paid to the Palestinian people is simply 
the bill for the Israeli occupation.
What we have lost due to the Israeli occupation of 
the  Palestinian  people  is  much  greater  than  what  we 
have  been  offered  by  the  international  community  in 
terms of assistance. If we were really able to access and 
develop  our  own  economic  resources,  then  we  could 
really benefit from a strong, independent economy and 
not need all this international assistance.
Ms.  Wilson  (Australia):  Each  year,  we  come 
together in this Hall to note the progress we have made in 
strengthening coordination in the humanitarian system. 
Australia welcomes once more the opportunity to add 
our  voice  and  commitment  to  the  important  reforms 
generated by various forums in 2016, particularly from 
the World Humanitarian Summit onwards.
16-42340
15/26
A/71/PV.56 
08/12/2016
to 
improve 
and 
resilience 
We  support  efforts  to  better  use  development 
approaches 
reduce 
humanitarian need. We also encourage efforts to better 
support local leadership and context-specific responses 
wherever  possible, 
targeted 
investments in preparedness. Those efforts have been 
very  effective  in  reducing  loss  and  damage  in  our 
region,  such  as  in  the  responses  to  tropical  Cyclones 
Winston and Pam in the Pacific.
including 
through 
empowerment,  disability 
The grand bargain to increase cash programming, 
multi-year collaborative planning and better prioritized 
needs  assessments will drive efficiency and effectiveness, 
as  will  greater  investments  in  gender  equality  and 
women’s 
inclusiveness, 
innovation  and  private-sector  engagement.  But  much 
of  this  is  tinkering  with,  rather  than  transforming, 
the  humanitarian  system.  We  must  go  further  in  our 
ambitions  for  humanitarian  reform.  We  must  have  a 
comprehensive  approach  to  sustaining  peace  by  the 
United Nations system, particularly by addressing the 
root causes of conflict to reduce humanitarian need. We 
must invest in sustaining peace, disaster risk reduction, 
better support for internally displaced persons and host 
countries  and  address  climate  change,  if  we  hope  to 
reduce spiralling humanitarian need.
The year 2016 has been an abhorrent reminder that 
the  cornerstones  of  international  norms  and  laws  are 
being  threatened  and  disregarded,  and  civilians  are 
disproportionately paying the price. We must work to 
protect and uphold international law. Australia stands 
with Emergency Relief Coordinator Stephen O’Brien in 
calling on all parties to conflicts to respect and protect 
affected  populations,  in  the  name  of  restoring  basic 
humanity. All parties are reminded of their obligations 
to  protect  civilians  under  international  humanitarian 
law  and  human  rights  law.  The  arbitrary  and  wilful 
denial  of  humanitarian  access  is  an  international 
disgrace and can constitute a war crime.
We condemn the ever-increasing targeted attacks on 
humanitarian workers, those already risking their lives 
to save others. The indiscriminate attacks on civilians, 
sieges and the use of torture, rape and sexual violence 
are crimes and must stop. All too often women, children 
and  persons  with  disabilities  are  disproportionately 
victims of those crimes. We condemn those acts in the 
strongest terms.
History has demonstrated time and again just how 
difficult it is to prevent cycles of violence in the absence 
of  justice.  We  must  heed  that  lesson.  Australia  is 
committed to holding to account those most responsible 
for the crimes I mentioned. The International Criminal 
Court, as a court of last resort, can have a critical role 
to play in that regard.
The  humanitarian  system  is  being  challenged 
on  many  fronts.  With  unprecedented  need  and  finite 
resources,  it  is  a  matter  of  reform  or  fail.  The  World 
Humanitarian  Summit  reminded  us  that  people  must 
be  at  the  centre  of  humanitarian  action  and  that  a 
holistic  approach  in  the  humanitarian,  development 
and peacebuilding ecosystem is required to address the 
unprecedented  humanitarian  demands  we  face  today. 
We  must  ensure  that  humanitarian  and  development 
investments deliver better results to people in order to 
more effectively support communities.
The  international  community  made  significant 
commitments to address the root causes of crises and 
displacement  through  the  New  York  Declaration  for 
Refugees  and  Migrants  and  future  global  compact 
(resolution  71/1  and  annexes),  the  Paris  Agreement 
on  climate  change,  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  the  Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster 
Risk Reduction 2015-2030. In a year of massive global 
displacement,  increasing  disasters  linked  to  climate 
change  and  growing  inequality,  those  frameworks 
have the potential to address the major challenges we 
now face.
We  should  all  be  able  to  look  back  on  2016  as 
the  year  we  championed  a  reformed  humanitarian 
system — one with a common humanity at the centre, 
backed  by  substantive  action  and  political  will. 
Millions of suffering people depend upon us. We must 
now  deliver  on  those  commitments.  Australia  stands 
ready to heed that call, and we ask all Member States 
to join us.
(spoke 
(Cuba) 
Mrs.  Rodríguez  Abascal 
in 
Spanish): Humanitarian assistance must be provided at 
the request and with the consent of the affected State, 
since the latter plays the main role in coordinating all 
humanitarian activities in its territory. In that respect, 
Cuba recognizes the full validity of the guiding principles 
of  humanitarian  assistance  endorsed  by  the  General 
Assembly  in  resolution  46/182.  It  is  the  obligation  of 
Member  States  and  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  that 
humanitarian assistance is provided in accordance with 
the principles of humanity, neutrality and impartiality. 
16/26 
16-42340
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.56
We therefore reject the double standards that hide under 
the noble mantle of humanitarian efforts.
improving its national and local early-warning systems 
and organizing response and recovery actions.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  must  be 
respected, and its purposes and principles must not be 
violated, distorted, restricted or subjected to conditions 
when  humanitarian  assistance  is  provided.  In  that 
regard,  we  oppose  the  endorsement  of  concepts  that 
have  not  been  agreed  and  are  ambiguous  in  order  to 
justify  actions  that  are  contrary  to  the  principles  of 
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  non-interference 
in the internal affairs of States.
To  the  human  and  material  damage  caused  by 
natural  disasters,  we  must  add  those  disasters  with 
direct human causes, such as hunger, poverty and war, 
which place billions of people in extremely precarious 
situations throughout the world.
As  an  urgent  matter,  we  must  strengthen 
international  cooperation  programmes  and  transfer 
resources,  technologies  and  knowledge  to  developing 
countries 
their  national 
capacities  in  the  face  of  humanitarian  emergencies. 
That  international  cooperation  must  be  carried  out  in 
accordance  with  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and without preconditions.
to  complement 
in  order 
Cuba  believes  that  humanitarian  assistance  in 
emergency situations must contribute to the sustainable 
development  of  the  affected  State.  It  must  therefore 
also  address  the  root  causes  that  limit  the  ability  of 
countries to prevent, mitigate and address the various 
humanitarian emergencies in their territories, especially 
those generated by inequality, the unjust international 
economic  order,  poverty,  underdevelopment  and  the 
instigation  and  maintenance  of  armed  conflicts  from 
outside.  It  is  also  important  to  ensure  that  responses 
to humanitarian emergencies do not have a detrimental 
effect  on  the  commitments  made  with  respect  to 
activities,  programmes  and 
resources  earmarked 
for development.
in 
The  Cuban  Government’s  experience  and  central 
role 
initiating,  organizing,  coordinating  and 
delivering humanitarian assistance to countries affected 
by  natural  disasters  are  well  known.  Our  experience 
demonstrates  the  need  for  a  civil  defence  system  that 
integrates  all  of  a  society’s  institutions  and  resources 
for  the  protection  of  individuals,  their  assets  and  the 
socioeconomic infrastructure. Cuba has been working 
on  updating  institutional  and  normative  frameworks 
for disaster-risk reduction at the local level as part of 
The benefits of our experience are tangible. In spite 
of the substantial material losses left in the wake of the 
recent  passing  of  Hurricane  Matthew,  our  country  is 
going  about  its  recovery  efforts  calmly  and  proudly, 
strengthened by the knowledge that we have not had to 
mourn the loss of a single human life. We are thankful 
for the solidarity and assistance that we received.
In  connection  with  subparagraph  (b)  of  agenda 
item  69,  my  delegation  would  like  to  reiterate  its 
unconditional  support  for  the  heroic  efforts  of  the 
Palestinians in their fight to exercise their inalienable 
right  to  self-determination.  The  Palestinian  people  is 
the  victim  of  one  of  the  longest-lasting  humanitarian 
emergencies 
the  Organization  has  known,  and 
therefore  requires  require  particular  attention  in  this 
debate.  It  is  imperative  to  redouble  efforts  to  end  the 
injustice committed against that people and to resolve 
the  question  of  Palestine  in  all  its  aspects,  including 
by  providing  a  just  solution  to  the  difficult  situation 
of refugees.
Cuba  reiterates  its  willingness  to  continue  to 
extend its support, in solidarity and with impartiality, 
to  countries  affected  by  natural  disasters  or 
other emergencies.
Mr.  Al-Malki  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset I wish to extend my thanks and appreciation to 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening 
this  meeting  to  shed  light  on  United  Nations  efforts 
to  strengthen  its  coordination  of  humanitarian  and 
disaster relief assistance, particularly in the light of the 
escalating humanitarian needs and suffering.
In recent years the world has witnessed protracted 
crises, acts of violence, armed conflicts and numerous 
natural  disasters.  In  2015,  346  natural  disasters  were 
recorded,  each  causing  thousands  of  victims.  Their 
repercussions  affected  millions  of  persons,  according 
to  the  report  (A/71/395)  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
the agenda item before us. The complex conditions gave 
rise  to  untold  humanitarian  suffering  and  numerous 
challenges, evident in the unprecedented levels of forced 
displacements  and  the  growing  numbers  of  persons 
in  need  of  humanitarian  assistance.  That  situation 
has  overwhelmed  the  United  Nations  and  all  partners 
concerned  in  their  efforts  to  deal  with  developmental 
and humanitarian challenges, coordinate humanitarian 
16-42340
17/26
A/71/PV.56 
08/12/2016
action and extend assistance, particularly given the lack 
of requisite funding.
We would like to acknowledge the very important 
role played by the Central Emergency Response Fund 
in  meeting  growing  humanitarian  needs.  We  take 
this  opportunity  to  note  that  the  State  of  Qatar  has 
contributed  to  the  Fund,  which  is  one  of  the  most 
successful tools of global humanitarian funding. Given 
the  pressing  need  to  meet  the  unprecedented  level  of 
humanitarian needs, the World Humanitarian Summit, 
held  in  Istanbul,  took  on  a  unique  character.  It  was 
an important opportunity to press ahead with finding 
solutions  to  humanitarian  crises,  in  the  light  of  the 
joint responsibilities of States. In that regard, we draw 
attention to the conclusions of the negotiations leading 
to the Summit, concerning a new method of work that 
meets people’s needs as a means to curb risk.
the 
international  community 
The  State  of  Qatar  has  always  interacted  and 
cooperated  with 
in 
overcoming  all  the  obstacles  to  a  stable  and  safe 
world,  a  world  that  benefits  from  internationally 
agreed  commitments,  particularly 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals and the principle of leaving no one 
behind. We wish to emphasize that there is no alternative 
to cooperation and joint action if humankind is to enjoy 
the rule of law, respect for human rights and reduced 
vulnerabilities and risks. In keeping with the principled 
tenets of our domestic and foreign policies, and given 
the  pressing  need  to  ease  the  suffering  of  millions 
of  people,  we  have  been  at  the  forefront  of  States  in 
promoting international peace and security through our 
diplomatic  efforts  and  model  relations  —  regionally 
and  internationally  —  to  settle  disputes  peacefully, 
particularly in the Arab region.
We are cooperating with United Nations agencies 
in the Gaza Strip, as we believe in the importance of 
addressing  the  humanitarian  situation  in  Gaza  and 
achieving  peace.  We  will  continue  our  humanitarian 
efforts to rebuild the Gaza Strip and achieve stability 
there. In that connection, the schools of Sheikh Hamad 
bin  Khalifa  Al  Thani  were  recently  set  up  in  Hamad 
city,  in  southern  Gaza.  We  emphasize  the  need  for 
integrity  and  impartiality.  We  shall  remain  a  truly 
reliable partner in humanitarian response efforts, with 
a view to reversing unacceptable trends and improving 
the livelihoods of people throughout the world.
Ms.  Mendelson  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  wishes  to  reaffirm  its  strong  support 
for  the  United  Nations  leadership  in  humanitarian 
assistance.  We  will  remember  2016  for  the  renewed 
commitment to efficient, effective and well-coordinated 
humanitarian response that Member States and United 
Nations  humanitarian  leaders  made  during  the  World 
Humanitarian Summit, the General Assembly high-level 
meeting  on  addressing  large  movements  of  refugees 
and migrants and the leaders summit on refugees.
In  the  New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and 
Migrants,  Member  States  renewed  their  commitment 
to  protecting  and  assisting  refugees  and  vulnerable 
migrants  in  a  period  of  unprecedented  displacement. 
We welcome the Declaration’s call for the development 
of  global  compacts  on  refugees  and  safe,  orderly  and 
regular migration. However, as we look back on 2016, 
we are also haunted by our inability to bring conflict 
to an end and to reach people in need in places such as 
Syria, Yemen, the Lake Chad basin and South Sudan. 
At the end of 2015, a total of 65.3 million people were 
displaced as a result of violence, conflict or persecution, 
compared with 59.5 million just 12 months earlier.
In that context, humanitarian assistance that allows 
us  to  address  basic  needs  and  protection,  including 
mitigating  risks  associated  with  human  trafficking, 
has never been more important. Indeed, as the Syrian 
regime  continues  to  prevent  thousands  of  its  citizens 
from  accessing  humanitarian  assistance,  we  are 
reminded of the limitations of our efforts in the absence 
of respect for international humanitarian law.
The  United  States  welcomes  the  adoption  later 
today  of  the  omnibus  humanitarian  draft  resolution 
(A/71/L.32), as well as the draft resolution on the safety 
and security of United Nations humanitarian personnel 
(A/71/L.34) and the draft resolution on natural disasters 
(A/71/L.33),  and  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor  them.  The 
omnibus  text  represents  a  positive  step  forward  by 
strengthening  the  humanitarian  community’s  ability 
to better address the humanitarian assistance needs of 
more than 100 million people around the globe. It also 
demonstrates the determination of many Member States 
to turn words into action, including the commitments 
made at the World Humanitarian Summit.
to 
improve  humanitarian 
 The omnibus draft resolution calls on the United 
Nations 
coordination 
through  the  development  of  prioritized  humanitarian 
response plans, based on needs assessments. It calls for 
increased transparency, the reduction of duplication in 
the system and the strengthening of partnerships with 
18/26 
16-42340
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.56
national  and  local  responders.  It  also  advances  new 
ways  of  working  through  important  language  about 
reducing the humanitarian and development silos, and, 
for the first time, it stresses the importance of United 
Nations efforts to combat sexual exploitation and abuse 
committed by aid workers.
I would like to draw attention to the omnibus draft 
resolution’s focus on the needs of internally displaced 
persons (IDPs), who represent over two thirds of those 
forcibly  displaced  worldwide.  The  text  renews  the 
call  on  Governments  to  uphold  their  responsibility 
to  provide  protection  and  assistance  to  IDPs  and 
refugees, critically define durable solutions and further 
strengthen 
international  response  efforts.  It  also 
draws  our  attention  to  the  importance  of  supporting 
communities that host IDPs and refugees. The omnibus 
draft resolution affirms that international humanitarian 
law provides for the protection of civilians in all armed 
conflicts, international and non-international. We regret 
that  Syria  broke  silence  after  the  extensive,  inclusive 
and transparent negotiations had ended — negotiations 
in which its delegation participated. Serious last-minute 
obstructionism  is  inconsistent  with  the  spirit  of  open 
debate and compromise, which is a long-standing part 
of this organ’s working methods, at a time when Syria 
has  already  lost  its  credibility  by  waging  a  campaign 
that includes sieges, the blocking of humanitarian aid, 
the indiscriminate bombardment of civilian areas and 
the use of barrel bombs.
We  also  recognize 
the  vital  contribution  of 
the  safety  and  security  and  natural  disasters  draft 
resolutions to the overall framework for the delivery of 
humanitarian assistance. Risks to the safety and well-
being  of  the  brave  men  and  women  working  on  the 
front line to assist people in need, particularly local and 
national staff, have continued to increase, and 2016 has 
been marred by attacks on relief convoys and medical 
facilities,  as  well  as  brutal  acts  of  sexual  assault  on 
aid workers.
In  that  context,  United  Nations  efforts  to  protect 
front-line relief workers remain critical, and the focus 
of draft resolution A/71/L.34 and its addendum 1 on the 
responsibilities  of  all  parties  to  armed  conflict  under 
international  humanitarian  law  to  provide  protection 
has never been more important. Similarly, we renew the 
commitment of the United States, in close partnership 
with the international community, including the United 
Nations system, to working with affected communities 
and civil society to prepare for, respond to and reduce 
the risk of natural disasters through our humanitarian 
and development assistance. We welcome the adoption 
of the draft resolution in that regard later today.
tirelessly 
to  work 
to  uphold 
The  United  States  looks  forward  to  working  with 
the  United  Nations  and  Member  States  in  2017  to 
further improve humanitarian planning and assistance, 
and 
international 
humanitarian law in all armed conflicts. As we reflect 
on  the  immense  need  for  financial  support,  outlined 
in  the  global  humanitarian  appeal  for  2017,  we  urge 
all  Member  States  to  contribute  generously  to  United 
Nations humanitarian appeals and agencies, as well as 
to other key international humanitarian organizations. 
We  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
extraordinary 
leadership  on  humanitarian  affairs 
during his tenure, and we look forward to supporting 
António  Guterres  as  he  opens  a  new  chapter  in  the 
United Nations history of offering hope, protection and 
assistance to those in need.
Mr.  Wu  Haitao  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
Intertwined  traditional  and  non-traditional  security 
threats,  protracted  and  regional  conflicts  in  some 
places,  natural  disasters,  climate  change,  food  crises, 
refugee and migrant issues and other global challenges 
have  come  to  the  fore  in  recent  years,  resulting  in  a 
generally grim international humanitarian situation. It 
is vital that the international community be united, build 
consensus, address both the symptoms and underlying 
causes  of  problems  and  take  effective  measures  to 
respond 
increasingly  grave  humanitarian 
situation.  In  that  connection,  China  would  like  to 
emphasize the following points.
that 
to 
law  and 
international 
First,  respect  for 
the 
norms  governing  international  relations  is  the  basic 
precondition  for  effective  humanitarian  assistance. 
Such assistance must abide by the Charter of the United 
Nations,  while  strictly  adhering  to  the  principles  of 
humanity, neutrality and impartiality, and must respect 
the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and 
national  unity  of  recipient  countries.  It  must  comply 
with international law and the laws of host countries. 
The international community should make every effort 
to resolve disputes peacefully through political means, 
avoid  politicizing  humanitarian  issues  and  uphold  the 
non-military nature of humanitarian assistance.
Secondly,  assisting  developing  countries  in  their 
development is a fundamental way to reduce the need 
for humanitarian aid. Many problems in the world today 
16-42340
19/26
A/71/PV.56 
08/12/2016
are rooted in poverty and underdevelopment and should 
be resolved fundamentally by promoting development. 
While  seeking  to  respond  effectively  to  short-term 
humanitarian needs, the international community should 
jointly  implement  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  to  achieve  development.  Humanitarian 
resources  should  not  be  increased  at  the  expense 
of  resources  allocated  to  development.  Developed 
countries  should  effectively  fulfil  their  commitments 
with  regard  to  official  development  assistance,  and 
should  make  a  point  of  increasing  their  support  to 
African countries and least developed countries in the 
areas  of  capital,  technology  and  capacity-building  so 
as to help developing countries embark upon a path to 
lasting peace, stability, development and prosperity.
Thirdly,  factors  such  as  climate  change  and  food 
insecurity have aggravated the risk of natural disasters 
and  our  vulnerability  to  them.  At  the  same  time,  the 
rapid development of information and communication 
technologies  has  greatly  improved  our  capacity  to 
prevent and respond to catastrophic events. Operating 
with  full  respect  for  the  situation  and  the  needs  of 
countries  affected  by  disasters,  and  using  means 
such  as  increasing  investment  in  and  the  transfer  of 
technologies  and  know-how  to  developing  countries 
and  enhancing  their  infrastructure  construction,  the 
international community should be able to effectively 
enhance the capacity of countries dealing with disasters 
to  manage  disaster  risks  and  to  build  capacity  for 
preventing, reducing, preparing for and responding to 
such disasters, as well as working to build resilience.
Fourthly,  the  efficient  operation  of  the  United 
Nations humanitarian system is an important guarantee 
of  the  effective  delivery  of  humanitarian  assistance. 
In  accordance  with  its  mandate,  the  Office  for  the 
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs should continue 
its important role in coordinating such aid, establishing 
and improving cooperative partnerships led by Member 
States,  ensuring  all  countries’  equal  participation 
and  increasing  developing  countries’  representation 
and  voice  in  international  humanitarian  affairs.  The 
provision of humanitarian assistance should be based on 
the actual needs and priorities of recipient Governments 
and peoples, with a view to promoting synergy at the 
national, regional and international levels.
China  attaches  great  importance  to  and  takes  an 
active  part  in  international  humanitarian  assistance. 
We  have  provided  emergency  humanitarian  aid  to 
dozens of countries in recent years, and as our capacity 
is  actively  engaged 
permits,  we  will  continue  to  participate  actively  in 
bilateral  and  multilateral  humanitarian  assistance  and 
make  new  contributions  to  the  cause  of  international 
humanitarian affairs. China is a country where natural 
disasters occur frequently. While continuing to increase 
its  own  capacity  to  cope  with  disasters,  the  Chinese 
Government 
international 
cooperation for disaster reduction. We have established 
and  improved  international  cooperation  mechanisms 
for  disaster  reduction  and  are  a  major  participant 
in  international  disaster  reduction  and  assistance 
programmes.  China  will  continue  to  work  to  deepen 
international  cooperation  and  exchanges  to  build 
synergies  with  the  international  community,  with  a 
view  to  jointly  enhancing  our  capacities  for  disaster 
prevention, reduction and relief.
in 
Mr.  Roet 
(Israel):  More 
than  130  million 
people  around  the  world  today  are  in  urgent  need  of 
humanitarian  assistance.  The  scale  of  the  problem  is 
staggering,  as  the  human  suffering  is  greater  than  at 
any time since the Second World War. Now more than 
ever, it is crucial that Member States, non-governmental 
organizations  (NGOs),  the  private  sector  and  all 
relevant agencies coordinate an effective humanitarian 
response so that we can better deliver for people around 
the globe. This year, world leaders convened in Istanbul 
at  the  first-ever  World  Humanitarian  Summit,  where 
they established a way forward for a collective response 
to  future  humanitarian  challenges.  It  is  now  time  to 
implement what we all agreed to.
The  year  2016  has  been  one  of  devastating 
humanitarian  crises  —  conflicts,  natural  disasters, 
epidemics  and  sectarian  fighting  —  that  have  left 
millions  dead  and  millions  more  in  dire  conditions, 
lacking  any  way  to  meet  even  the  most  basic  of 
human needs.
As  I  stand  here,  Syria  continues  to  bleed.  The 
violence  inflicted  by  the  Al-Assad  regime,  which 
brutally assaults its own people using conventional and 
non-conventional  weapons,  has  plunged  the  country 
into  the  worst  humanitarian  crisis  in  the  history  of 
the Middle East. The carnage has claimed the lives of 
more than 400,000 people, including tens of thousands 
of  children,  and  has  displaced  approximately  half  of 
the  Syrian  population.  Nowhere  is  the  situation  more 
grave than in Aleppo, where collapsing infrastructure 
and  a  lack  of  basic  provisions,  including  food,  water 
and medicine, have led to a humanitarian catastrophe 
of  unimaginable  scale.  With  winter  approaching,  the 
20/26 
16-42340
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.56
situation in devastated Aleppo is getting worse by the 
day, and urgent action is needed.
In  Yemen,  a  country  ravaged  by  war,  we  are 
witnessing  the  constant  deterioration  of  one  of  the 
largest  humanitarian  crises  in  the  world.  Continuous 
and  indiscriminate  attacks  by  the  Saudi-led  coalition 
and the Iranian-backed Houthi rebels continue to take 
a deadly toll on the civilian population. The numbers 
are staggering. Today, 80 per cent of the population of 
Yemen — as many as 21 million people — is in need of 
some form of humanitarian assistance.
In the Central African Republic, a conflict that has 
dragged on for three years has affected nearly the entire 
population and has left some 2.3 million people, more 
than half the population, in urgent need of assistance.
While  humankind,  unfortunately,  continues  to 
cause misery, nature has not rested. Natural disasters 
continue  to  put  millions  of  people  at  risk  every  year. 
While we cannot control nature, we can and should do 
better in preparing for disasters before they happen and 
in responding quickly and efficiently when they do. The 
most recent El Niño has affected more than 60 million 
people all over the world, and many vulnerable groups 
are  among  the  worst  affected,  including  women, 
children and people with disabilities. Alarmingly, food 
insecurity linked to crop failure and drought is expected 
to peak during 2017. In Haiti, Hurricane Matthew left 
more than 175,000 people homeless, while the United 
Nations estimates that at least 1.4 million Haitians are 
in need of urgent humanitarian assistance. That has also 
had an effect on the country’s ability to respond to its 
cholera epidemic, which threatens to worsen after many 
treatment centres were destroyed in the hurricane.
From early in its existence, Israel has been committed 
to providing humanitarian aid, whenever and wherever 
it  is  needed.  In  1958,  the  State  of  Israel  adopted  an 
official humanitarian aid agenda as a principal element 
of  the  country’s  international  cooperation  efforts. 
Nowadays, Israel is often called on to dispatch aid in the 
wake of earthquakes, floods, famine and other natural 
disasters.  Following  the  devastating  tropical  cyclone 
that  did  severe  damage  in  Fiji  earlier  this  year,  Israel 
was among the first countries to dispatch an aid mission 
to rebuild the remote village of Vuma, destroyed in the 
storm.  This  summer,  MASHAV,  Israel’s  international 
development cooperation agency, provided emergency 
protective  equipment  to  Cameroon  to  help  fight  the 
spread of a bird-flu epidemic affecting the country. In 
April, following a devastating earthquake in Ecuador, 
MASHAV sent medical aid and supplies to the affected 
areas. A group of Israeli doctors set up a mobile clinic in 
Canoa, one of the worst-affected areas in the province 
of Manabi.
Addressing 
today’s  humanitarian 
challenges 
requires coordinated action on the part of Governments, 
NGOs  and  other  relevant  actors.  In  that  regard, 
Israel  commends  the  important  work  being  done  by 
humanitarian  NGOs  all  over  the  world.  One  of  them 
is  IsraAID,  an  Israeli  NGO  committed  to  providing 
lifesaving  disaster  relief  and  long-term  support.  For 
more than a decade, its teams of professional medics, 
search-and-rescue  squads,  post-trauma  experts  and 
community  mobilizers  have  been  on  the  front  lines 
of  nearly  every  major  humanitarian  response  in  the 
twenty-first century. Those efforts represent the spirit 
of our people and the character of our nation.
As  we  have  seen  time  and  time  again,  economic 
prosperity  and  development  lead  to  stability,  and 
stability  leads  to  security.  The  economic  growth  and 
well-being  of  the  Palestinian  people  are  therefore  in 
Israel’s  direct  interests,  and  Israel  is  a  committed 
partner on that path. Despite the onslaught of the terror 
attacks  on  Israelis  that  have  been  going  on  for  more 
than  a  century,  and  which  have  increased  in  the  past 
two  years,  and  despite  the  constant  threats  posed  to 
our  citizens  by  rocket  attacks  from  Hamas-controlled 
Gaza,  we  have  continued  with  our  efforts  to  improve 
the  well-being  of  the  Palestinian  people,  in  the  West 
Bank,  in  Judaea  and  Samaria,  and  in  the  Gaza  Strip. 
Today I would therefore like to share with the Assembly 
some facts that are rarely heard in this Hall.
Israel is cooperating closely with the United Nations 
in facilitating Gaza’s reconstruction through the Gaza 
Reconstruction Mechanism. Since October 2014, Israel 
has  enabled  the  entrance  of  more  than  6  million  tons 
of  construction  materials  into  the  Gaza  Strip.  Every 
day,  800  trucks  go  through  the  Kerem  Shalom  and 
Erez  crossings  into  the  Strip.  As  we  speak,  Israel  is 
investing millions of dollars to upgrade that capacity to 
1,000 trucks a day. More than 100,000 residential units 
have been refurbished and hundreds of public projects, 
including schools, clinics, mosques and parks, are near 
completion.  Israel  is  also  addressing  critical  energy 
and  water  needs  in  the  Gaza  Strip.  Our  Government 
has approved the construction of a high-voltage electric 
line  that,  once  operational,  will  supply  Gaza  with  an 
additional  100  megawatts  of  electricity.  In  the  near 
16-42340
21/26
A/71/PV.56 
08/12/2016
term we will also add 10 million cubic metres of water 
to the Gaza Strip’s water system, effectively doubling 
the quantity of potable water currently supplied to Gaza
Despite all of those efforts, the full reconstruction 
of  Gaza  is  constantly  hindered  by  the  actions  of 
Hamas, which is internationally recognized as a terror 
organization.  Hamas  regularly  confiscates,  diverts 
and smuggles resources intended for the humanitarian 
development  needs  of  Gaza  residents  and  redirects 
them  for  its  own  priorities  —  digging  terror  tunnels, 
building  training  camps  and  manufacturing  rockets. 
That is an organization that is known to have exploited 
humanitarian agencies in order to divert materials for 
its military buildup, and yet too many United Nations 
humanitarian agencies — the United Nations Relief and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
is one example — shy away from blaming Hamas, and 
often even from mentioning it by name.
It  seems 
that  making  political  declarations 
and  criticizing  only  one  side  is  always  easier  than 
concentrating  on  the  humanitarian  tasks  facing  us. 
Israel  views  with  the  utmost  severity  the  exploitation 
of  well-intentioned  NGOs  and  international  funds  as 
funnels for terror tunnels. It should be clear that, as we 
work for Gaza’s recovery, there should be zero tolerance 
for any type of abuse, zero tolerance for terrorism, zero 
tolerance  for  terrorism  financing  and  zero  tolerance 
for violence.
It 
less 
represents  nothing 
This  year  we  witnessed  the  signing  of  a  major 
agreement  resolving  a  decade-long  dispute  over  the 
Palestinian  Authority’s  debt  to  the  Israel  Electric 
Corporation. 
than  a 
breakthrough  that  will  ensure  a  consistent  supply 
of  electricity  to  the  Palestinian  population  and  full 
payment  for  future  consumption,  and  that  will  return 
responsibility  for  managing  the  Palestinian  energy 
market  to  the  Palestinian  Authority.  That  important 
achievement demonstrates the great potential of direct 
bilateral  dialogue  between  Israel  and  the  Palestinian 
Authority without preconditions.
If  the  Assembly  is  surprised  that  it  has  not  yet 
heard  about  that  achievement  accomplished  by  the 
two sides, that is because positive news is not part of 
the  anti-Israeli  narrative  that  is  sometimes  promoted 
at  the  United  Nations.  In  fact,  any  mention  of  it  was 
intentionally  omitted  from  a  resolution  adopted  here 
recently.  Nevertheless, 
remains  committed 
to  supplying  humanitarian  aid  and  assistance  to  the 
Israel 
Palestinian  people.  But  humanitarian  efforts  alone 
will  not  bring  peace  and  prosperity,  either  to  Israelis 
or Palestinians. We call on the Palestinian Authority to 
take  a  constructive  approach  and  accept  our  repeated 
calls to resume direct negotiations.
The Talmud tells us that when someone saves a life, 
it is as if he had saved an entire world. Let us continue 
to save life after life, until the whole world becomes a 
safer, more peaceful place. The cost of taking action is 
high, but the price for not taking action is even higher. 
We must continue to form global partnerships in order 
to  address,  mitigate  and  prevent  future  humanitarian 
crises around the world.
Mr.  AlJarallah  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  am 
very pleased to be taking part in today’s consideration 
of this important agenda item. We highly commend the 
role that has been played by Stephen O’Brien, Under-
Secretary-General  for  Humanitarian  Affairs,  and  his 
entire  team  in  the  efforts  in  this  area,  which  send  a 
message  of  support  for  international  humanitarian 
work. We welcome this review of the resolutions aimed 
at strengthening the coordination of humanitarian and 
disaster relief assistance. We have also carefully studied 
and  taken  into  consideration  the  report  (A/71/395)  of 
the Secretary-General on the subject.
like 
to  emphasize 
My  delegation  would 
the 
importance  of  the  first  World  Humanitarian  Summit, 
held in Istanbul in May. It represents a turning point in 
our  collective  humanitarian  process  and  a  significant 
basis for enhancing international efforts by coming up 
with new ways to find solutions to the problems facing 
the world. In that regard, we would also like to emphasize 
the  significance  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
(A/71/353) on the outcome of the World Humanitarian 
Summit, which underlines the importance of collective 
efforts in the service of humankind in the phrase “One 
humanity: shared responsibility”.
to 
We  have  given  serious  consideration 
the 
ideas  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/71/336) 
on  the  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund  for  2015, 
which  emphasizes  the  importance  of  redoubling  and 
intensifying  the  international  community’s  efforts 
and broadening the Fund’s donor base. Kuwait firmly 
believes that it is important to respond to those appeals. 
We  have  therefore  taken  initiatives  in  that  regard, 
including, in 2014, earmarking $1 million as a voluntary 
contribution, based on our country’s belief in the role 
22/26 
16-42340
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.56
being  played  by  the  United  Nations  in  humanitarian 
affairs and assistance.
I  would  like  to  recall  that  the  report  (A/71/87)  of 
the Secretary-General on assistance to the Palestinian 
people stresses the importance of strengthening United 
Nations  assistance  to  Palestinian  institutions  and  of 
contributing  to  the  2016  humanitarian  response  plan 
to  bolster  the  programmes  to  meet  the  immediate 
humanitarian needs of the brotherly Palestinian people 
and  for  recovery  and  reconstruction  throughout  the 
occupied Palestinian territory. The report also mentions 
unprecedented losses and damage due to the destruction 
caused by Israeli occupation and aggression.
We want to reaffirm the need to work collectively in 
order to achieve lasting, viable, fair and comprehensive 
peace in the Middle East. We would also like to stress the 
importance of pursuing meaningful political initiatives 
to compel Israel to respond to and respect international 
resolutions  on  upholding  the  legitimate  rights  of  the 
Palestinian people, including by recognizing Palestine 
as  an  independent  State,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital,  within  the  pre-1967  borders,  in  line  with  the 
principle of land for peace, the road map and the Arab 
Peace Initiative.
Kuwait firmly believes in the collective efforts to 
surmount  the  challenges  facing  the  world  today.  The 
challenges  cannot  be  overcome  by  one  State  or  one 
entity  alone;  they  require  collective  responsibility 
and  efforts.  Since  independence,  we  have  sought  to 
provide  assistance  to  countries  in  need,  irrespective 
of  geographic,  ethnic  or  religious  affiliations.  We 
have  continued  our  humanitarian  efforts  for  stricken 
countries. Over the past five years, we have provided 
more than $2 billion for humanitarian assistance alone.
We  are  proud  to  be  at  the  top  of  the  2014-2015 
list  of  contributions  to  humanitarian  assistance  as  a 
proportion  of  a  country’s  national  income,  according 
to  international  statistics,  as  well  as  top  of  the  list  of 
donor countries that are participating in the search for 
solutions to all the crises plaguing our region, including 
in  Palestine,  Syria,  Yemen  and  Iraq.  That  has  put 
Kuwait  at  the  centre  of  humanitarian  efforts.  Indeed, 
the  United  Nations  has  given  His  Highness  the  Amir 
of Kuwait the Global Humanitarian Leadership Award 
in  acknowledgement  of  Kuwait’s  efforts  in  this  area. 
We have continued to acknowledge the importance of 
development  assistance,  providing  2.1  per  cent  of  our 
national income for that purpose last year — twice the 
amount agreed upon. We also allocated $15 billion for 
the next 15 years as assistance to generate infrastructure 
projects in developing and least developed countries.
In conclusion, my country’s delegation would like 
to  stress  the  importance  of  collective  international 
efforts and of building on those of the United Nations, 
the  suitable 
international 
humanitarian  needs  and  crises,  which  pose  a  major 
challenge 
the  achievement  of  global  peace 
and security.
for  addressing 
forum 
to 
Mr.  Tsymbaliuk  (Ukraine):  During 
the  past 
decade,  the  international  community  has  witnessed 
humanitarian  crises  of  unprecedented  scale  and 
complexity,  along  with  an  ever-increasing  need  for 
immediate  responses  to  emergency  situations.  The 
year 2016 is a vivid example of the global humanitarian 
funding requirements, which surpassed $22 billion, to 
meet the needs of almost 100 million people, including 
more than 65 million people who were forced from their 
homes. Such circumstances require the acceleration of 
common  efforts  for  a  smoother  transition  from  relief 
to  recovery  and  development,  in  accordance  with 
the  principles  of  humanity,  neutrality,  impartiality 
and interdependence.
to 
response  capacities,  strengthen 
Ukraine highly values the work of United Nations 
improve 
humanitarian  agencies  and  partners 
the 
humanitarian 
resilience  of  affected  communities  and  restore  their 
self-reliance.  We  emphasize  the  importance  of  the 
relevant  reports  and  resolutions  aimed  at  shaping  a 
global framework for the delivery of emergency relief.
Clear examples of the disastrous events of 2016 are 
Hurricane Matthew tearing through Haiti, the Bahamas 
and Cuba; natural disasters in the Asia-Pacific region; 
and  protracted  conflicts  in  Syria,  South  Sudan  and 
Yemen;  as  well  as  extreme  weather  events  fuelled  by 
El Niño. They pointed to the paramount importance of 
strengthening  the  funding  of  efforts  to  overcome  the 
consequences  of  such  disasters,  in  particular  through 
the  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund  (CERF). 
Given recent developments, there is a need to increase 
CERF funding to facilitate the delivery of its mandate 
in  providing  timely  and  needs-based  humanitarian 
assistance in line with the commitments pledged during 
this year’s World Humanitarian Summit in Istanbul.
While  Ukraine  shares  the  view  that  national 
authorities  bear  the  primary  responsibility  to  provide 
humanitarian  assistance,  the  serious  humanitarian 
16-42340
23/26
A/71/PV.56 
08/12/2016
challenges  we  have  confronted  demonstrate 
that 
international  cooperation  is  invaluable  in  situations 
that  exceed  national  coping  capabilities.  Therefore, 
Ukraine calls for continued and enhanced international 
support, upon request, for the capacity-building efforts 
of  States.  To  maximize  efficiency,  humanitarian 
assistance should address not only the needs, but also 
the factors that contribute to vulnerability.
We  also  share  the  idea  of  creating  a  common 
system  that  would  connect  humanitarian  aid  agencies 
and  bodies  around  the  world  at  the  national,  regional 
and  global  levels  in  order  to  improve  communication 
among  them  and  help  them  achieve  efficiency  in 
delivering help to affected populations on short notice. 
Such  a  system  would  greatly  facilitate  the  work  of 
humanitarian personnel worldwide.
too,  has  been 
facing 
In  that  regard,  we  would  like  to  underline  the 
responsibility of Member States to ensure the security 
of  United  Nations  and  humanitarian  personnel. 
Therefore,  we  fully  support  the  idea  of  strengthening 
cooperation  between  host  countries  and  the  United 
Nations on that matter. It also concerns the promotion of 
safe and unhindered access of humanitarian personnel 
to  affected  populations,  in  particular  in  situations  of 
armed conflict
Ukraine, 
enormous 
the  Russian 
humanitarian  challenges  because  of 
aggression. It has resulted in the increase of internally 
displaced persons in the territory of Ukraine to nearly 
1.8 million people. The Government of Ukraine is doing 
its best in continuing to respond to this challenge, both 
at the institutional and legislative levels. Coordination 
mechanisms have been established and new legislation 
on  internally  displaced  persons  (IDPs)  and  relevant 
sublegislative  acts  have  been  adopted,  facilitating 
IDPs’ access to their pensions, social benefits, medical 
care, employment and education. We witnessed United 
Nations humanitarian aid help thousands of Ukrainians 
from affected areas in the eastern part of the country, 
providing food, supplies and medical assistance since 
the beginning of the crisis.
sufficiency,  all  based  on  the  development  approach. 
In  order  to  decrease  nuclear  contamination  from 
the  Chernobyl  disaster,  on  29  November,  Ukraine 
completed the installation of the arched shelter over the 
Chernobyl nuclear power plant. We would like to thank 
our  international  partners  that  contributed  to  funding 
and assisting in finalizing that project.
I  would  like  to  end  my  statement  with  a  famous 
English proverb: a friend in need is a friend indeed. Let 
us  therefore  not  leave  other  countries  to  face  serious 
challenges  alone.  We  ought  to  respond  to  them  as  a 
united world.
Ms. Schwalger (New Zealand): The humanitarian 
segment  of  the  General  Assembly  is  usually  an 
opportunity  for  Member  States  to  reflect  on  the 
humanitarian  challenges  of  the  preceding  year  and  to 
express  hope  for  the  year  to  come.  Looking  back  at 
2016, it is difficult to be optimistic. As noted by others 
this morning, the humanitarian need facing the world 
is greater today than any time since the Second World 
War. Humanitarian appeals are at an all-time high, as 
are violations of international humanitarian law.
December  is  the  final  month  of  New  Zealand’s 
current  term  on  the  Security  Council.  If  we  apply  a 
humanitarian lens, the conflict in Syria has dominated 
our  term.  No  other  ongoing  conflict  has  taken  a 
heavier toll on its civilian population. We were bitterly 
disappointed at the Security Council’s inability this week 
to adopt a draft resolution that would have reduced the 
fighting and allowed desperately needed humanitarian 
aid  to  reach  the  more  than  250,000  civilians  trapped 
in  Aleppo.  The  draft  resolution  —  put  forward  by 
Egypt, Spain and New Zealand — represented, in our 
view, a minimum credible response from the Council. 
Monday’s veto (see S/PV.7825) made clear that military 
gains trumped preserving the lives of men, women and 
children. However, we have not given up. New Zealand 
will continue our work in the Security Council and in 
the General Assembly to protect Syrian civilians and to 
find a solution to what has become the gravest and most 
complex humanitarian catastrophe of our time.
This  year  also  marked  the  thirtieth  anniversary 
of  the  nuclear  disaster  at  Chernobyl.  That  notorious 
tragedy was the worst nuclear power plant accident in 
history in terms of cost and casualties. In cooperation 
with  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme, 
serious efforts have been made towards the restoration 
of  affected  communities,  self-reliance  and  self-
We were deeply disappointed by the politicization 
of  the  humanitarian  omnibus  negotiations.  A  small 
number  of  Member  States  opposed  the  inclusion  of 
language  that  expressed  concern  at  the  obstruction 
of  humanitarian  aid  by  parties  to  armed  conflict. 
Unconstructive negotiation tactics were also employed, 
such as using the silence procedure to force concessions. 
24/26 
16-42340
08/12/2016 
A/71/PV.56
While  reaching  consensus  is  important,  we  believe 
that we are paying an increasingly high price for such 
concessions.  That  is  especially  true  when  the  issue 
is  as  pressing  as  providing  life-saving  humanitarian 
assistance  and  when  there  are  numerous  voices  in 
support and very few in opposition.
In  May, 
the  Security  Council  unanimously 
adopted  resolution  2286  (2016).  For  the  first  time, 
the  Council  came  together  to  strongly  condemn  the 
targeting  of  hospitals  and  health-care  workers  in 
armed  conflict.  New  Zealand  and  four  other  elected 
members  of  the  Council  —  Spain,  Egypt,  Uruguay 
and  Japan  —  shepherded  that  landmark  resolution. 
We  are  proud  of  the  inclusive  process  that  led  to  its 
adoption.  Key  humanitarian  stakeholders,  such  as  the 
International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross,  Médecins 
sans  Frontières  and  United  Nations  agencies,  were 
consulted throughout its negotiations. Resolution 2286 
(2016)  was  adopted  by  consensus,  with  more  than  80 
Member States sponsoring it.
What has become clear in recent months, however, 
is that resolution 2286 (2016) is being blatantly ignored. 
In Aleppo, Syria, there are no functioning hospitals left. 
In  Abs,  Yemen,  a  Médecins  sans  Frontières  hospital 
was destroyed by an airstrike in August. The list goes 
on.  The  lack  of  political  will  to  implement  resolution 
2286 (2016) is difficult to fathom. We strongly urge all 
Member  States  to  implement  resolution  2286  (2016), 
and  we  urge  all  parties  to  armed  conflicts  to  fully 
comply with their obligations under international law. 
In that regard, the International Criminal Court plays an 
important role in bringing to justice those responsible 
for  serious  violations  of  international  humanitarian 
law.  There  is  a  fundamental  principle  at  stake:  those 
breaching  international  humanitarian  law  must  be 
held accountable.
At the same time, our experience on the Security 
Council has made it clear that greater resources must 
be  invested  in  conflict  prevention.  New  Zealand  is 
convinced that we must do better than waiting until a 
conflict has already arisen. We must move away from 
hearing predictable, rote rehearsals of national positions. 
That  is  why  New  Zealand  has  tried  to  implement  a 
culture in which the Council engages early, swiftly and 
pragmatically in situations of concern.
The  Pacific  is  faced  with  a  different  but  no  less 
serious set of humanitarian challenges. Up to 10 tropical 
cyclones  can  be  expected  over  the  next  six  months, 
adding to the impact of Cyclones Pam and Winston over 
the past two years. Climate change will only increase 
the risk of such events in future. Pacific island countries 
spoke clearly at the World Humanitarian Summit earlier 
this  year  about  how  the  international  community  can 
help  them  respond  to  natural  disasters.  One  of  their 
key messages was that national Governments must be 
empowered and respected when responding to natural 
disasters.  After  all,  those  Governments  know  their 
regions and their people best. New Zealand takes that 
message seriously and puts it into practice by working 
closely  with  affected  Governments  to  support,  rather 
than substitute for, nationally led responses.
We will continue to promote responses that are as 
local as possible and as international as necessary, in 
the  Pacific  and  elsewhere,  to  build  national  response 
capacity.  We  are  also  helping  the  Pacific  to  improve 
economic and community resilience to natural disasters 
through  significant  investment  in  key  sectors  of  the 
Pacific economy, such as renewable energy and tourism.
While  I  would  have  liked  to  have  ended  on  an 
optimistic  note,  I  simply  cannot.  The  year  2016  will 
go  down  in  history  as  an  abysmal  year  for  people 
living in situations of conflict and disaster and for the 
humanitarians  worldwide  who  seek  to  support  them. 
New  Zealand  will  do  its  part  in  2017  to  try  to  make 
things better. We urge all members to do the same.
Mr. Tsutsumi (Japan): The world is facing several 
unprecedented humanitarian crises today. We are seeing 
protracted  crises,  severe  natural  disasters  and  a  huge 
number of people displaced by conflicts in many parts 
of the world. The Global Humanitarian Overview 2017
estimates  that  $22.2  billion  will  be  required  in  2017 
to  provide  humanitarian  assistance  for  92.8  million 
people. Against such a backdrop, humanitarian issues 
have become one of the top agendas this year. In May, 
the World Humanitarian Summit was held in Istanbul. 
In  September,  the  high-level  plenary  meeting  on 
refugees  and  migrants  and  the  leaders  summit  on  the 
global refugee crisis were held here in New York.
The  World  Humanitarian  Summit  provided  an 
opportunity  to  rally  a  wide  range  of  actors  to  engage 
in 
comprehensive  discussions  on  humanitarian 
issues.  Discussions  on  various 
the 
Summit  —  gender,  internally  displaced  persons  and 
persons  with  disabilities,  to  name  but  a  few  —  are 
reflected in the draft resolutions, which we hope will 
be  adopted  later  today.  We  welcome  the  fact  that  the 
topics  at 
16-42340
25/26
A/71/PV.56 
08/12/2016
outcomes  of  the  fruitful  and  constructive  discussions 
at  the  Summit  are  now  gradually  beginning  to  be 
incorporated into intergovernmentally agreed texts.
We  also  welcome  the  presentation  of  the  grand 
bargain  document  at  the  Summit  in  Istanbul.  The 
funding  gap  for  humanitarian  assistance  has  become 
larger than ever. Therefore, creating efficient ways of 
implementing  assistance  and  shrinking  overall  need 
are  of  critical  importance.  We  also  welcome  the  fact 
that many core elements of the grand bargain, such as 
the importance of reducing duplication and the need to 
harmonize  and  simplify  reporting  requirements,  are 
also incorporated into the draft resolutions.
In  September,  leaders  from  around  the  world 
gathered  in  New  York  to  discuss  the  large  movement 
of  refugees  and  migrants.  Both  the  application  of  the 
comprehensive  refugee  response  framework  and  the 
discussions on the global compact for safe, orderly and 
regular migration have now begun. Japan supports the 
implementation of the comprehensive refugee response 
framework through funding pilot projects. Japan is also 
ready to constructively participate in the discussions on 
the global compact on migration.
Although  discussions  on  humanitarian  issues  are 
making progress step by step, the bitter reality on the 
ground  seems  unchanged.  The  number  of  displaced 
persons  is  increasing,  and  the  fundamental  rules  of 
international humanitarian law are being neglected — or 
worse, deliberately violated. Discussions and resolutions 
mean nothing unless we can also realize some positive 
changes in the ongoing crises.
What we call humanitarian crises today are greater 
than the issues that normally fall under the mandates of 
humanitarian agencies. Because of their complex nature 
and  large  scope,  most  of  them  are  also  development 
challenges  as  well  as  concerns  of  international  peace 
and  security.  To  end  ongoing  tragedies,  the  United 
Nations  should  address  those  issues  as  a  whole,  in  a 
coordinated manner.
After decades of discussions on the humanitarian 
development  nexus,  it  has  now  become  common 
understanding that development actors should also be 
involved  from  the  onset  of  a  humanitarian  crisis.  In 
that regard, we are currently in the phase of discussing 
how to collaborate with each other on the ground. For 
our  part,  Japan  has  been  implementing  pilot  projects 
concerning  the  humanitarian  development  nexus,  in 
collaboration with the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  the  United  Nations 
Development Programme, in nine countries, including 
Turkey, Uganda and Zambia, and providing assistance 
totalling  approximately  $110  million  in  terms  of  both 
humanitarian and development aspects.
Moreover,  Member  States  must  insist  on  every 
possible  occasion  that  all  parties  to  conflicts  should 
respect  international  humanitarian  law.  In  particular, 
attacks against medical facilities for strategic purposes 
are  absolutely  unacceptable.  In  that  belief,  Japan, 
together with New Zealand, Egypt, Spain and Uruguay, 
drafted  and  led  the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution 2286 (2016) in May. Japan once again urges 
all parties to take concrete actions to protect medical 
care in situations of armed conflict.
Because  we  hear  and  see  the  devastating  reality 
so  often,  we  tend  to  become  pessimistic  about  the 
challenge  of  humanitarian  issues.  However,  we  must 
also recognize that humankind has been learning from 
humanitarian crises and has made progress in response 
to  them.  The  establishment  of  the  United  Nations 
humanitarian agencies after the ravages of the Second 
World War is a good example. It is important that we 
never reverse this progress, in honour of those affected 
by  the  crises  of  yesterday  and  for  the  sake  of  those 
affected by the crises of today and tomorrow.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the last speaker inscribed on the list of speakers 
for agenda item 69 and its sub-items (a) to (d) for this 
meeting.  We  shall  hear  the  remaining  speakers  this 
afternoon at 3 p.m. in the Hall.
The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.
26/26 
16-42340
