United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
24th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 5 October 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.24
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Balé (Congo), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 p.m.
Agenda item 109 (continued)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/71/1)
Mr. Pisarevich (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): We are 
grateful to the Secretary-General for his comprehensive 
report (A/71/1) on the work of the Organization over the 
past year.
We have turned yet another important page in the 
history  of  the  United  Nations,  as  we  have  adopted  a 
new Agenda for Sustainable Development for the next 
15 years. Much remains to be done in order to ensure 
that  the  achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  is  more  successful  than  that  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. In that regard, we agree with the 
Secretary-General’s  opinion  that,  in  order  to  achieve 
the Goals by 2030, priority must be given to preventing 
and ending new and ongoing conflicts. In that context, 
an 
to  preventive  diplomacy 
and mediation.
important  role  falls 
A milestone last year was marked by the signing of 
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, in accordance 
with which States committed to laudable goals, which 
will  contribute  to  building  a  healthier,  safer  and 
more  prosperous  future  for  us  all.  Indeed,  much  has 
been  achieved  during  the  reporting  period.  However, 
we  should  not  forget  that  we  have  been  compelled  to 
undertake  many  of  our  activities  because  of  short-
sighted  policies  in  the  past  and  the  failure  to  resolve 
issues  in  a  timely  matter,  such  as,  for  example,  the 
recent massive displacement of refugees and migrants. 
Numerous  negative  events  taking  place  today  could 
have  been  avoided  had  the  world  been  more  stable 
and predictable.
Against the background of a number of important 
resolutions  adopted  by  the  United  Nations,  it  must, 
unfortunately,  be  noted  that  the  Organization  has 
increasingly neglected the spirit of unity when initiatives 
are  imposed  on  States  that  have  been  supported  by 
only a few countries. That has consequently led to the 
violation of the provisions enshrined in the Charter of 
the  United  Nations  and  a  complete  disregard  for  the 
sovereign rights of States. We are increasingly witness 
to  unilateral  interpretations  of  existing  international 
law  and  codes  of  ethics.  Unfortunately,  the  unilateral 
and  non-transparent  promotion  of  confrontational 
ideas has become characteristic of the Secretariat. The 
impartiality of the Secretariat is of critical importance 
if we wish to preserve the unity of the States Members 
of the United Nations.
In summing up the work of the United Nations over 
the  past  year,  we  must  address  vital  internal  matters 
relating  to  the  Organization.  It  is  no  secret  that,  with 
regard  to  Headquarters  and  the  organization  of  work 
and the logistics of the United Nations, the Secretariat 
is not always on the same page as Member States. The 
Secretariat has established many bureaucratic internal 
rules that often create obstacles to carrying out the work 
of  the  United  Nations.  Furthermore,  very  frequently, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-30880 (E)
*1630880*
A/71/PV.24 
19/10/2016
interaction  takes  place  on  a  transactional  basis:  the 
Secretariat furnishes Member States services for which 
they  have  already  paid  through  the  salaries  paid  to 
Secretariat staff. We believe that additional funding of 
the  United  Nations  is  something  that  should  be  done 
only on a voluntary basis.
We  believe  that  it  is  important  to  ensure  that  the 
Secretariat publish The Journal of the United Nations
in  all  six  official  languages  throughout  any  given 
session of the General Assembly. The issue is not one 
of purely technical importance. First and foremost, it is 
a matter of respecting the tradition of multilingualism 
in the Organization. In that regard, we would also like 
to direct the attention of the General Assembly to the 
role of translation and interpretation as a profession, art 
and  tool  for  building  trust  and  understanding  among 
peoples. As a gesture of the importance that we attribute 
to that subject, we suggest establishing an international 
day for translation and interpretation.
Today more than ever, we need to learn how to work 
in partnership. Any action or innovation on the part of 
the  Secretariat  that  affects  the  working  conditions  of 
the Missions of Member States at Headquarters needs 
to be coordinated with Member States. We believe that 
looking  for  effective  forms  of  cooperation  between 
the  Secretariat  and  Member  States  must  become  a 
priority for the next Secretary-General. But we are even 
more  concerned  by  the  trend  leading  to  the  excessive 
bureaucratization of our work as Member States. Given 
the  complexity  and  breadth  of  the  United  Nations, 
carrying out our work would not be possible without a 
minimum  number  of  rules.  However,  real-time  action 
carried  out  by  the  Organization  for  the  benefit  of  the 
well-being  of  countries  and  peoples  should  not  be 
held  hostage  to  formal  and  bureaucratic  procedures, 
especially when development depends upon it.
Belarus  and  many  other  countries  have  therefore 
been viewing with concern the fact that at the onset of 
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, our joint plan of action is already being 
held  hostage  by  routine  and  pro  forma  approaches. 
Instead  of  practically  implementing  the  ideas  in 
the  Agenda,  we  are  now  engrossed  in  optimizing, 
synchronizing  and  compiling  reports  and  resolutions. 
We will therefore not only fail to achieve the sustainable 
and  equitable  development  of  peoples  and  countries, 
but  will  also  risk  worsening  the  image  of  the  United 
Nations as a bureaucratic mechanism far removed from 
the needs of the world’s population.
Of  course,  the  Organization  alone  cannot  solve 
issues  involving  sustainable  development  for  national 
Governments.  But  the  United  Nations  must  be  the 
global  coordinating  centre  for  dealing  with  questions 
of development. Belarus has already spoken in favour 
of  ensuring  that  the  United  Nations  become  a  focal 
coordinating  centre,  gathering  resources  in  expert 
assistance,  financing,  technology  and  the  means  of 
implementation.  For  those  countries  truly  in  need 
of  support  in  the  implementation  of  the  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  that  will  be  much  more 
important than the formal approaches to work following 
the usual bureaucratic methods.
We  also  believe  that  the  United  Nations  system 
needs to be better adapted to meeting the differing needs 
of countries in line with their national priorities. More 
than  anyone  else,  national  Governments  know  their 
countries’ problems. The United Nations development 
system should therefore not decide a priori the question 
of  what  needs  to  be  done.  The  development  system 
must help States answer the question of how to achieve 
various  results.  Unfortunately,  there  is  no  universal 
formula  for  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  because  countries  have  different  needs  and 
different ways of achieving them. We therefore expect 
the  United  Nations  to  concentrate  more  on  unique 
approaches  and  problem-solving  by 
into 
account the specific characteristics and peculiarities of 
each country.
taking 
We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  must  finally 
pay  more  attention  to  middle-income  countries.  Two 
thirds of all the poor people in the world live in those 
countries, which also account for a significant number 
of young people, who are highly vulnerable to external 
economic challenges. Any change in the world economy 
runs the risk of undermining all those countries’ efforts 
aimed at achieving sustainable development.
What  is  key  to  successfully  overcoming  current 
problems is to ensure that we prioritize the activities of 
the United Nations. Strengthening the United Nations 
does not imply only the internal reorganization of the 
Secretariat. It must involve pursuing the kind of United 
Nations policy that strives to reinstate the authority of 
the  Organization  and  ensure  that  the  world  is  helped 
through its decisions.
In conclusion, I would like to express my appreciation 
to Mr. Ban Ki-moon for his work as Secretary-General. 
We hope that the next Secretary-General will maintain 
2/16 
16-30880
19/10/2016 
A/71/PV.24
the  positive  traditions  of  the  United  Nations  and 
continue guiding the United Nations family in a spirit 
of cooperation, mutual respect, healthy rationalism and 
real progress.
Ms. Lodhi (Pakistan): We welcome the Secretary-
General’s  annual  report  (A/71/1)  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization, which provides a comprehensive account 
of  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations  over  the  past 
year,  as  well  as  its  accomplishments,  and  identifies 
challenges for the next year.
The  founding  fathers  of 
the  United  Nations 
acknowledged the indivisibility of peace and security, 
on the one hand, and economic and social development, 
on  the  other  —  the  immutable  reality  that  there  can 
be no peace without development and no development 
without  peace.  Last  year,  we  made  much  progress 
towards  the  achievement  of  one  of  those  pillars  by 
collectively  endorsing  the  transformative  new  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  That  and  the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change marked significant 
and  historic  milestones.  We  are  now  entering  the 
implementation phase. Together, we must deliver on the 
pledges  that  were  made.  We  will  be  judged,  after  all, 
not by our intentions but by our actions.
Can we similarly be optimistic about our quest to 
save succeeding generations from the scourge of war? 
Turmoil  in  the  Middle  East;  conflicts  raging  from 
Syria, Libya and Yemen to Afghanistan; tensions in and 
around  Europe;  the  continued  plight  of  people  living 
under  foreign  occupation  in  Kashmir  and  Palestine; 
the unprecedented scale of suffering caused by human 
dislocation;  the  growing  threat  of  violent  extremism; 
the spread of intolerance and xenophobia; and the real 
threat to peace and security in my own neighbourhood 
are  all  indications  not  of  what  we  have  achieved,  but 
of what still remains to be done in a world that is more 
fragile, yet more polarized. We have to ask ourselves, 
then,  whether  we  have  been  able  to  live  up  to  the 
promise and expectations generated by the Charter of 
the United Nations. Have we been able to move towards 
a fairer and more equitable and peaceful world, based 
on law and justice? After all, it is only by implementing 
the Charter in both letter and spirit that we can create a 
world free of conflict, where really no one is left behind.
turbulent  yet 
interdependent  world,  the  United  Nations  continues 
to  be  indispensable  to  our  efforts  to  restore  order 
and  ensure  global  peace,  stability  and  prosperity.  Its 
Pakistan  believes 
that, 
in  our 
principles  remain  the  crucial  pillars  for  international 
legality, a guide for the conduct of Member States and 
the  guarantor  of  the  legitimate  rights  of  all  nations 
and  peoples.  But,  in  order  for  the  United  Nations  to 
regain  its  credibility  as  the  central  instrument  for 
promoting  peace,  prosperity  and  liberty,  it  must  be 
more  representative,  transparent  and  accountable.  For 
that  reason,  my  country  supports  comprehensive  and 
democratic  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  aimed  at 
enhancing its relevance and representativeness without 
creating new centres of power and privilege.
The  reviews  conducted  over  the  past  year  on 
peacekeeping,  peacebuilding  and  resolution  1325 
(2000), on women and peace and security, have shone 
a light not only on the Organization’s achievements in 
those areas but also on the shortcomings that need to 
be addressed. We stand ready to take those processes 
forward  during  the  seventy-first  session.  Pakistan’s 
long-standing  and  unwavering  commitment  to  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  has  been  acknowledged  by 
everyone, and we have a significant stake in the success 
of that flagship enterprise. Arguably the most important 
message  to  emerge  from  the  reviews  is  the  need  for 
prevention  and  mediation  in  managing  conflicts  and 
the need to stop them from occurring in the first place. 
Increasing the capacity of the United Nations in those 
areas  is  therefore  imperative.  And  yet  we  see  India 
continuing to reject the offer of the Secretary-General’s 
good offices aimed at resolving long-standing disputes 
in our region.
The terrorist threat has become more pervasive and 
is  evolving  in  complex  and  unpredictable  directions, 
posing an ever greater danger to international peace and 
security. Countering terrorist entities such as Da’esh is 
possible  only  by  ensuring  international  collaboration 
and reconciling the divergent interests of the regional 
and external Powers in the Middle East. Pakistan has 
been  at  the  forefront  of  the  global  campaign  against 
terrorism.  We  have  lost  tens  of  thousands  of  lives  in 
that fight. The blood that has been shed, including that 
of  our  innocent  children,  has  only  strengthened  our 
resolve to eliminate that scourge from our country. We 
will fight terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, 
whether  sponsored  by  militant  organizations  or  by 
hostile Powers in our region. We have made substantial 
gains,  but  our  campaign  will  end  only  when  the  last 
terrorist is eliminated from our country.
The  sovereign  equality  of  States,  the  settlement 
of  international  disputes  by  peaceful  means  and 
16-30880
3/16
A/71/PV.24 
19/10/2016
the  avoidance  of  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of  force  are 
fundamental principles enshrined in the Charter of the 
United Nations. It is those very principles that inspire 
us to look to the United Nations to play its appropriate 
role in promoting lasting peace in South Asia and live 
up  to  its  long-standing  obligations  to  the  people  of 
Kashmir. India’s continued denial of the right of self-
determination  to  the  people  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir, 
promised  in  several  Security  Council  resolutions,  has 
sparked  another  indigenous  and  popular  uprising  in 
occupied  Kashmir  and  has  also  led  to  tensions  in  the 
region.  The  struggle  of  the  Kashmiri  people  for  self-
determination  is  a  legitimate  one,  and  they  have  the 
right to expect and receive moral and political support 
from the international community.
The  United  Nations  is  under  an  obligation  to 
play a role in bringing an end to human rights abuses 
and  facilitate  a  peaceful  settlement  of  the  Kashmir 
dispute,  in  line  with  the  aspirations  of  the  Kashmiri 
people,  through  a  free  and  fair  plebiscite  held  under 
United  Nations  auspices.  We  reiterate  our  demand 
for  an  independent  inquiry  into  human  rights  abuses 
in  occupied  Kashmir  and  welcome  the  call  from  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
for  unfettered  and  unconditional  access  in  order  to 
enable  impartial  monitoring  of  the  human  rights 
situation  there.  Sadly,  India  does  not  even  allow  the 
United Nations Military Observer Group in India and 
Pakistan,  one  of  the  earliest  missions  ever  deployed 
by the United Nations, to fully function in accordance 
with  its  mandate  and  report  to  the  Security  Council, 
so  that  it  can  address  threats  to  international  peace 
and security.
It is regrettable that by its recent declarations and 
actions, India has created conditions that pose a threat 
to peace and security in the region. Over the past few 
weeks India has engaged in unprovoked shelling across 
broad areas along the Line of Control. That continues 
even  as  I  speak.  Pakistan  has  exercised  the  greatest 
possible  restraint  in  the  face  of  such  belligerence, 
because we know only too well that such a tense and 
fraught  situation  can  easily  spiral  into  uncontrolled 
escalation. Pakistan wants a peaceful resolution to all 
outstanding  disputes,  especially  in  Kashmir,  where 
today a settlement is more urgently needed than ever. 
We stand ready to engage in a meaningful dialogue in 
the interest of all of the people of our region. But it is 
for India to take the first step, because it is India that 
has exacerbated the current situation.
Finally, we can address the daunting security and 
development  challenges  confronting  the  world  today 
and achieve our shared goals only by strict adherence to 
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The 
path to a more peaceful, just and prosperous world lies 
in cooperative endeavours promoted through effective 
multilateralism, to which my country remains fully and 
firmly committed.
Mr.  Wu  Haitao  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Chinese  delegation  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s 
report (A/71/1) on the work of the Organization. Over 
the past year, in the face of a very complex international 
situation  and  global  challenges,  the  United  Nations 
has  promoted  multilateral  cooperation  and  made 
outstanding progress in the areas of peace and security, 
development, women’s empowerment, climate change, 
and migration and refugees, public health and counter-
terrorism.  The  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  over  the 
past year have therefore focused on global trends and 
on  supporting  the  interests  of  Member  States.  China 
commends  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  the 
Secretariat for their work in that regard, and would like 
to take this opportunity to thank the Secretary-General 
for his efforts.
Today, even as one or another regional conflict or 
hotspot  subsides,  others  appear,  and  traditional  and 
non-traditional  security  threats  become  intertwined. 
Globally,  economic  recovery  continues  to  be  weak 
and  lacking  in  the  momentum  needed  for  sustainable 
development.  During 
the 
General Assembly, the international community should 
therefore  focus  its  efforts  on  building  a  community 
of  common  destinyfor  humankind  and  coordinate  its 
actions in order to address our global challenges.
the  current  session  of 
to 
First,  we  must  adhere 
the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  in 
order to create a global climate conducive to peace and 
stability. We must uphold the spirit of the Charter and 
nurture  a  new  concept  of  common,  comprehensive, 
cooperative  and  sustainable  security  and  promote  a 
global  partnership  that  features  dialogue  instead  of 
confrontation as well as partnership instead of alliance. 
We should stay committed to settling regional hotspot 
issues through political means, make further efforts in 
conflict prevention and other areas, strongly uphold the 
international nuclear non-proliferation regime, actively 
promote  international  counter-terrorism  cooperation, 
and  develop  synergies  in  the  area  of  maintaining 
international peace and security.
4/16 
16-30880
19/10/2016 
A/71/PV.24
The 
cooperation. 
Secondly,  we  should  step  up  our  contributions 
to  development  and  further  promote  international 
development 
international 
community’s  first  priority  should  be  to  put  an  end  to 
hunger  and  poverty,  and  to  that  end  Member  States 
should  combine  their  efforts  and  work  to  achieve 
comprehensive implementation of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development.  North-South  cooperation 
should  be  maintained  as  a  main  channel.  Developed 
countries should make good on their official development 
assistance  commitments  to  help  developing  nations 
improve  their  people’s  livelihood  and  accelerate  their 
development, while developing countries should further 
promote South-South Cooperation and make efforts to 
achieve collective self-sufficiency.
Thirdly,  greater  priority  must  be  given 
to 
international cooperation and proper measures must be 
taken to tackle global challenges. On the issue of refugees, 
we must first ensure that refugees are provided with the 
basic necessities of life. Of fundamental importance is 
to eliminate the cause of war and restart development 
so as to address the root causes of the issue. With regard 
to public health security, the international community 
should  support 
their 
efforts  to  establish  public  health  emergency  response 
and  management  mechanisms,  improve  grass-roots 
prevention  and  control  systems,  enhance  prevention 
awareness among the general public. Regarding climate 
change,  Member  States  must  adhere  to  the  principle 
of  shared  but  differentiated  responsibility,  equity  and 
respective capabilities, jointly deal with climate change 
and push for the universal acceptance and early entry 
into force of the Paris Agreement.
the  countries  concerned 
in 
In his address to the General Assembly as it marked 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations  (see 
A/70/PV.13), China’s President Xi Jinping discussed the 
importance  of  fashioning  a  new  kind  of  international 
relations  based  on  win-win  cooperation  and  made 
important  proposals  regarding  support  for  the  United 
Nations. Those measures are being implemented. At the 
Group of 20 Summit meeting held recently in Hangzhou, 
participants reached the Hangzhou consensus on global 
economic  development,  A  blueprint  was  drawn  for 
building  an  innovative,  invigorated,  interconnected 
and  inclusive  world  economy,  Participants  pledged  to 
actively  implement  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  formulate  an  action  plan  for  it, 
thereby bringing new vigor to sustainable development 
efforts around the world. 
During  the  general  debate  in  the  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-first session, the Chinese Premier, Li Keqiang, 
stated (see A/71/PV.11) that China ready to take an active 
part  in  international  cooperation  and  support  an  even 
greater role of the United Nations in the implementation 
of  the  2030  Sustainable  Development  Agenda.  China 
will  continue  to  strenghen  its  cooperation  with  the 
developing countries and will do whatever it can to help 
African countries and the least developed countries.
As a permanent member of the Security Council and 
the world’s largest developing country, China is a builder 
of  world  peace,  a  contributor  to    global  development 
and  a  defender  of  and  a  defender  of  the  international 
order.  We  have  made  significant  contributions  to  the 
maintenance of international peace and the promotion of 
common development, and are ready to cooperate with 
the  great  majority  of  Member  States,  firmly  practice 
multilateralism,  uphold  the  principles  and  purposes 
pf  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  promote  an 
even greater role for the Organization in international 
affairs,  with  a  view  to  advancing  the  cause  of  peace, 
development and progress for all humankind.
Mr.  Phansourivong  (Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic):  I  have  the  honour  to  deliver  this  statement 
on behalf of the 10 States members of the Association 
of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), namely, Brunei 
Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, 
the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Viet Nam and my 
own country, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
I wish to begin by thanking the Secretary-General 
for  his  comprehensive  annual  report  (A/71/1)  on  the 
work  of  the  Organization,  which  provides  a  detailed 
overview of the activities, achievements and challenges 
of  the  United  Nations  on  a  wide  range  of  issues  of 
common interest and concern to all humankind. As this 
is  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon’s  last  year  as  Secretary-General, 
I also wish to congratulate him and thank him for his 
tireless efforts over the past 10 years to promote peace, 
development and human rights in the world. I hope that 
his successor will continue his good work.
On  31  December  2015,  ASEAN  marked  one  of 
the most significant events in its history as it reached 
a  key  milestone  in  its  community-building  efforts 
by  establishing  the  ASEAN  Community.  Next  year, 
in  2017,  ASEAN  will  turn  50,  an  important  occasion 
that  its  member  States  will  mark  with  pride  and  joy. 
As  an  outward-looking  intergovernmental  regional 
organization,  ASEAN  continues  to  consider  the  work 
16-30880
5/16
A/71/PV.24 
19/10/2016
of  the  United  Nations  very  important  and  greatly 
values  its  cooperation  with  the  Organization.  Among 
other examples of that link, the ASEAN Charter has a 
provision expressing its commitment to upholding the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international  law. 
Furthermore,  the  convening  of  the  annual  ASEAN-
United Nations Summit, the ASEAN Foreign Ministers’ 
meeting with the Secretary-General and the President of 
the General Assembly, the implementation of the just-
completed  2014-2015  ASEAN-United  Nations  work 
plan,  and  the  adoption  of  a  2016-2020  plan  of  action 
to implement the Joint Declaration on Comprehensive 
Partnership between ASEAN and the United Nations all 
clearly reflect ASEAN’s commitment to strengthening 
its cooperation with the United Nations.
We  are  very  grateful  for  the  Secretary-General’s 
participation  in  the  recent  eighth  ASEAN-United 
Nations Summit, held on 7 September in Vientiane, and 
the annual meeting of ASEAN Foreign Ministers with 
the Secretary-General and the President of the General 
Assembly, held on 22 September on the sidelines of the 
general debate of the seventy-first session of the General 
Assembly  here  at  Headquarters.  In  the  light  of  that, 
ASEAN will submit a draft of the biennial resolution 
entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  ASEAN”  to  the  Assembly  at  its  current  session, 
so as to identify areas of cooperation and help address 
the  challenges  that  Member  States  face  in  areas  such 
as  sustainable  development,  poverty,  climate  change, 
peace  and  security,  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law, 
disarmament  and  terrorism.  I  therefore  look  forward 
to continued support for, and sponsorship of, the draft 
resolution from all Members of the United Nations.
In his report, the Secretary-General highlights the 
achievements  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
the need for the effective implementation of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development — the framework 
for global development for the next 15 years — and the 
promise made by Member States to leave no one behind. 
ASEAN also believes in the importance of sustainable 
development 
to  secure  a  rule-based, 
people-centred  ASEAN  community,  as  envisioned 
in  ASEAN’s  Community  Vision  2025,  guided  by 
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  ASEAN  Charter, 
which  will  serve  as  a  solid  foundation  for  ensuring 
peace,  stability  and  prosperity  in  the  region  and 
for  emphasizing  the  complementarity  between  the 
implementation of both the 2030 Agenda and ASEAN’s 
in  helping 
Community Vision 2025, with the goal of  raising our 
people’s standards of living so that no one is left behind.
ASEAN is also striving for inclusive and sustained 
growth.  Consisting  as  it  does  of  10  countries  with 
varying  levels  of  development,  ASEAN  has  been 
making efforts to narrow the development gap among 
its  members  through  its  successive  Initiatives  for 
ASEAN  Integration  Work  Plans,  currently  at  the 
beginning of their third phase with the recent adoption 
of  Work  Plan  III.  I  therefore  welcome  the  continued 
support  of  our  dialogue  partners,  the  United  Nations 
and other external partners in our efforts to strengthen 
the  ASEAN  Community,  which  was  established  on 
31 December 2015.
The  Secretary-General  pointed  out  that  climate 
change  poses  a  challenge  to  the  achievement  of 
sustainable development and the eradication of extreme 
poverty. In that regard, ASEAN welcomes the signing 
and  ratification  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change by Member States and the beginning of work 
on  the  modalities,  procedures  and  guidelines  for  its 
implementation.  In  addition,  ASEAN  is  committed 
to  improving  the  management  of  ASEAN’s  diverse 
ecosystems  and  landscapes,  including  its  vulnerable 
terrestrial,  coastal  and  marine  ecosystems,  through 
a 
landscape-based  approach  aimed  at  building 
climate resilience.
On  human  rights,  ASEAN  has  made  progress  in 
its institutional development since the entry into force 
of  its  Charter.  Some  highlights  include  the  milestone 
adoption  of  the  ASEAN  Human  Rights  Declaration 
in  2012  and  the  Declaration  on  the  Elimination  of 
Violence  against  Women  and  the  Declaration  on  the 
Elimination  of  Violence  against  Children  in  ASEAN 
in  2013,  following  the  establishment  of  the  ASEAN 
Intergovernmental  Commission  on  Human  Rights 
and  the  ASEAN  Commission  on  the  Promotion  and 
Protection of the Rights of Women and Children.
The  ASEAN  Intergovernmental  Commission  on 
Human Rights has conducted various programmes and 
activities in consultation and cooperation with ASEAN 
sectoral  bodies  and  with  the  relevant  institutions  and 
external  partners  concerned  to  promote  human  rights 
awareness  in  2016.  They  include  the  second  Regional 
Dialogue on the Mainstreaming of the Rights of Persons 
with  Disabilities  in  the  ASEAN  Community,  held  in 
Thailand,  the  Workshop  on  Effective  Communication 
Strategies  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons,  held 
6/16 
16-30880
19/10/2016 
A/71/PV.24
in  Viet  Nam,  and  the  Regional  Forum  on  Media  and 
Human Rights in ASEAN, held in Malaysia.
In  order 
to  enhance  humanitarian  assistance 
efforts  in  the  region,  during  the  chairmanship  of  the 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic in 2016, our leaders 
adopted the ASEAN Declaration on One ASEAN, One 
Response: ASEAN Responding to Disasters as One in 
the Region and Outside the Region at the twenty-eighth 
and twenty-ninth ASEAN Summits.
On  peace  and  stability,  ASEAN  is  also  striving 
to  maintain  and  promote  the  Association  as  a  flag-
bearer for regional norms of good conduct, particularly 
through  the  Treaty  of  Amity  and  Cooperation  in 
Southeast Asia. The Treaty is regarded as the key code 
of conduct governing inter-State relations in South-East 
Asia, which provides a foundation for the maintenance 
of  regional  peace  and  stability.  We  welcome  other 
non-regional  States’  growing  interest  in  acceding 
to  the  Treaty.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  recent 
accessions of Chile, Egypt and Morocco to the Treaty 
on 6 September 2016 in Vientiane and look forward to 
Iran’s accession to the Treaty upon the completion of its 
internal processes.
Furthermore,  ASEAN  attaches  great  importance 
to  strengthening  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
disarmament  regime  so  as  to  maintain  and  promote 
peace,  security  and  prosperity  in  the  region.  We  are 
committed to preserving South-East Asia as a nuclear-
weapon-free zone and free of all other weapons of mass 
destruction, as enshrined in the Treaty on the Southeast 
Asia  Nuclear  Weapon-Free  Zone  and  the  ASEAN 
Charter. ASEAN also welcomed the biennial adoption 
of  the  General  Assembly  resolution  on  that  Treaty  in 
December  2015  during  its  seventieth  session,  which 
reiterates the importance of the Treaty in strengthening 
the security of States in the region and in contributing 
to international peace and security.
On countering terrorism, ASEAN shares the deep 
concerns  over  the  increasing  violence  and  brutality 
committed  by  terrorist  and  extremist  organizations 
and radical groups in Yemen, Iraq and Syria. ASEAN 
denounces  all  acts  of  destruction,  violence  and  terror 
in all its forms and manifestations. In line with those 
efforts,  ASEAN  adopted  the  Langkawi  Declaration 
on  the  Global  Movement  of  Moderates  at  the  twenty-
sixth  ASEAN  Summit  in  April  2015,  which  outlines 
measures  to  promote  moderation  and  curb  extremism 
throughout the region.
ASEAN  leaders  announced  the  establishment  of 
the  ASEAN  Community  on  31  December  2015  and 
adopted  the  ASEAN  Community  Vision  2025  and  its 
three blueprints at the twenty-seventh ASEAN Summit 
in Kuala Lumpur. Under the chairmanship of the Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic in 2016, “Turning Vision 
into Reality for a Dynamic ASEAN Community” was 
chosen as the theme.
We believe that ASEAN’s collective efforts at the 
regional level will contribute to the work of the United 
Nations  in  promoting  peace,  security  and  stability, 
as  well  as  in  contributing  to  inclusive  and  sustained 
growth  for  all.  I  wish  to  conclude  by  reiterating 
ASEAN’s  resolve  to  strengthen  cooperation  with  the 
United Nations in all areas of mutual interest.
Mr. Khoshroo (Islamic Republic of Iran): Allow me 
to begin by thanking Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
for his report (A/71/1) on the work of the Organization.
I would like to touch briefly on some of the issues 
that  we  find  noteworthy  in  the  report.  In  paragraph 
97  of  his  report,  the  Secretary-General  welcomes  the 
adoption  of  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action, 
also known as the Iran Nuclear Deal, in the following 
way:
“This  historic  accomplishment  —  a  testament 
to  the  value  of  diplomacy  —  marks  an  important 
turning  point  in  the  international  community’s 
relationship with the Islamic Republic of Iran and 
benefits  nuclear  non-proliferation.  I  am  confident 
that  this  agreement  will  lead  to  greater  mutual 
understanding and cooperation on the many serious 
security challenges in the region and beyond.”
While  we  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  that 
realistic  assessment  of  the  value  of  the  agreement 
and its positive impact on our region and beyond, we 
invite the Secretariat to do its share by taking a more 
constructive  and  positive  approach  in  fulfilling  its 
reporting  and  monitoring  functions.  In  our  view,  our 
full compliance with the terms of the agreement and the 
non-performance by certain Plan of Action participants 
should be duly reflected in the reports by the Secretariat 
on the implementation of the agreement.
Also,  on  the  issue  of  disarmament,  we  reiterate 
that  the  priorities  of  the  international  community 
have  not  changed.  Achieving  the  objective  of  nuclear 
disarmament  is  the  highest  priority.  However,  as  the 
Secretary-General  indicated  in  his  report,  the  state 
16-30880
7/16
A/71/PV.24 
19/10/2016
of  affairs  is  disappointing  in  that  regard.  As  a  result 
of  nuclear-weapon  States  persistently  not  complying 
with  their  obligations,  there  has  been  no  progress 
towards that objective. We are deeply concerned about 
that  dangerous  situation  and  its  consequences  for 
international peace and security. There are thousands of 
nuclear weapons that threaten to annihilate humankind 
by  accident,  miscalculation  or  madness.  The  only 
absolute guarantee against the use of nuclear weapons 
is their total elimination. We call on the nuclear-weapon 
States  to  honour  their  special  responsibility  and  legal 
obligations  relating  to  the  total  elimination  of  their 
nuclear weapons.
As  the  main  sponsor  of  the  General  Assembly 
draft resolution entitled “A world against violence and 
violent  extremism”,  we  welcome  the  initiative  by  the 
Secretary-General  to  develop  a  plan  of  action  aimed 
at preventing violent extremism. We think that it is an 
important document, and that it could form the basis for 
further negotiations aimed at finalizing a plan of action 
that all Member States would implement.
On the issue of human rights, we note the efforts by 
the Secretary-General and the Organization to further 
advance  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms. 
However, the Secretariat should avoid trying to devise 
principles  or  set  priorities  and  agendas  that  Member 
States  have  not  agreed  to.  In  that  regard,  we  register 
our  disagreement  with  the  analysis  presented  in 
paragraph 77 of document A/71/1 concerning the death 
penalty, and with the status attributed to the doctrine of 
“responsibility to protect” in paragraph 76.
its 
responsibilities, 
including 
On  the  issue  of  peacekeeping  operations,  the 
prerequisite  for  the  success  of  the  United  Nations 
in  discharging 
in 
peacekeeping,  clearly  lies  in  the  partnership  and 
cooperation of Member States with the United Nations 
and  their  contribution  to  the  various  activities  of  the 
Organization. In that regard, we believe that the United 
Nations should be able to use the potential capacity of 
the  whole  membership  in  peacekeeping  operations, 
including 
civilian 
contingents. Therefore, the base of contributors should 
be  broadened,  and,  to  that  end,  any  invitation  by  the 
United Nations requesting the contributions of Member 
States to the peacekeeping missions or special political 
missions should be transparent and include all potential 
contributing countries.
troop,  military,  police 
and 
On  the  issue  of  sustainable  development,  as 
stated  in  the  report,  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  is  built  on  the  lessons  learned  from  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  other 
internationally  agreed  commitments  and  on  their 
expansion.  One  lesson  learned  from  the  MDGs  was 
that deviating from a commitment to partnership could 
lead to underachievement. We must keep international 
cooperation  on  the  right  track,  especially  in  the  first 
year of implementing the 2030 Agenda, which requires 
full and effective international support and solidarity.
As  Member  States  have  started  implementing  the 
2030 Agenda, a strong and more dynamic United Nations 
development  system,  compatible  with  their  needs  and 
priorities,  is  of  much  significance.  In  that  context, 
the  forthcoming  draft  resolution  on  the  quadrennial 
comprehensive  policy  review  should  appropriately 
address  a  number  of  important  issues,  including 
the  existing  imbalance  between  core  and  non-core 
resources; the necessity of revitalizing governing bodies 
with  equal  participation  and  the  presence  of  Member 
States; transparency, accountability and coherence; and 
exploring ways to avoid the overlapping of work across 
the United Nations agencies.
The world today faces greater risks, but we are also 
endowed with greater opportunities. Let us join hands 
for a better and brighter future.
Mr.  Rivero  Rosario  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
We  welcome  the  presentation  of  the  annual  report 
(A/71/1)  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization  and  the  work  undertaken  to  prepare  it. 
This will be the last such report of the current Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  recognize  his  dedication  to  promoting 
and  protecting  multilateralism,  his  contribution  to 
international peace and security and his dedication to 
achieving a better world.
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda,  the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  and  the  Sendai 
Framework  for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction  2015-2030 
were milestones in the history of the Organization, thus 
highlighting the importance of multilateralism and the 
continuing  relevance  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
purposes  and  principles  set  out  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. However, a long path remains until we 
fulfil the agreed accords. We should not overlook the 
fact that obstacles are still impeding progress towards 
8/16 
16-30880
19/10/2016 
A/71/PV.24
achieving  sustainable  development  for  our  peoples. 
We  are  confronting  a  world  in  which  multilateralism 
is  being  challenged  on  a  daily  basis.  We  have  war, 
aggression,  soft  coups  and  attempts  at  regime  change 
promoted by some hegemonic nations, interference in 
the internal affairs of States and violations of national 
sovereignty under the pretext of combating terrorism.
Preventing  armed  conflict  presents  a 
larger 
challenge  for  the  Organization  than  ever  before.  For 
Cuba,  building  upon  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  strengthening 
international  law  continue  to  be  the  basic  pillars  of 
international  security.  In  essence,  that  requires  full 
respect  for  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of 
States,  the  non-use  of  force  in  international  relations, 
and non-interference in the internal affairs of States.
The  international  efforts  being  made  to  preserve 
future  generations  from  the  scourge  of  war,  maintain 
international peace and security, and achieve economic 
and  social  progress  and  the  full  enjoyment  of  all 
fundamental  human  rights  are  still  insufficient.  That 
is attested to by the 795 million people who still suffer 
from hunger, the 781 million adults who are illiterate 
and  the  17,000  children  who  die  every  day  from 
curable diseases.
To  effectively  leave  no  one  behind,  we  must 
change  the  current  unjust  and  profoundly  inequitable 
international  order,  and  the  United  Nations  must  play 
an important role in that regard. We urgently need to 
end  the  application  of  unilateral  coercive  measures 
against  developing  countries,  eliminate  colonialism 
and  foreign  occupation,  and  reject  interventionism 
disguised as humanitarian aid. We must end the political 
manipulation of human rights by ensuring that we have 
an  impartial,  objective  and  non-selective  approach. 
The  imposition  of  single  and  imperfect  concepts 
of  democracy,  of  models  that  ignore  the  particular 
characteristics  of  each  society  and  give  control  to 
centres of world power, is unacceptable.
is  a  prerequisite 
Cuba  deems  that  a  climate  of  international  peace 
and  security,  where  the  rule  of  law  is  respected 
internationally, 
for  achieving 
sustainable  development.  That 
full 
recognition  of  the  sovereign  equality  of  States,  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes,  respect 
for  political 
the  political, 
economic, social and cultural system that nations have 
independence  and  for 
requires 
the 
freely  chosen  for  themselves  and  the  rejection  of  the 
threat or use of force against any State.
the  ambitious  2030  Agenda 
It  is  also  vital  to  have  new,  additional  and 
predictable financial resources for the implementation 
of 
for  Sustainable 
Development.  The  full  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda  and 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
requires capacity-building and the establishment of an 
international mechanism that facilitates the transfer of 
environmentally  friendly  technologies,  on  favourable 
terms for developing countries.
Just as the report itself points out, last year was the 
worst  in  terms  of  climate  change,  with  the  increased 
melting of polar ice caps, rising sea levels and increasing 
emissions  of  greenhouse  gases.  Urgent  concrete  and 
immediate action must be taken to reverse that situation. 
The Paris Agreement constitutes a starting point, but it 
is not sufficient in itself if we want to preserve our planet 
for  future  generations.  It  is  up  to  the  industrialized 
nations  to  assume  their  environmental  debt,  change 
their irrational models of production and consumption 
and reduce their greenhouse-gas emissions.
The existence of nuclear weapons is a further threat 
to human beings. The only way to save humankind from 
the  horrendous  impact  of  nuclear  weapons  is  through 
their complete prohibition and total elimination. Cuba is 
totally committed to the international efforts to achieve 
that priority objective. We support the recommendation 
to convene an international conference in 2017 for the 
purpose of negotiating a legally binding instrument for 
the prohibition of nuclear weapons, with a view to their 
elimination.  We  hope  that  such  an  instrument  can  be 
formally adopted in 2018 at the high-level international 
conference  on  nuclear  disarmament  that  the  General 
Assembly will convene.
We  recognize  that  much  remains  to  be  done 
in  the  fight  against  terrorism.  The  international 
community must take specific steps towards adopting 
a comprehensive convention on international terrorism 
containing  a  full  definition  of  that  scourge.  It  is 
unacceptable  that  the  alleged  fight  against  terrorism 
should  be  used  as  a  cover  for  acts  of  aggression  and 
interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States  or  for 
perpetrating  gross  violations  of  human  rights  and 
international humanitarian law.
The new genuinely just, democratic and equitable 
international  order  that  we  all  wish  to  see  requires  a 
radically reformed United Nations. To make the United 
16-30880
9/16
A/71/PV.24 
19/10/2016
Nations  more  democratic  and  effective,  the  General 
Assembly must be revitalized and strengthened. It must 
fully exercise its powers under the Charter, without any 
interference  from  the  Security  Council  in  its  work  or 
that of its bodies. The reform of the Security Council to 
make it more democratic and representative means that 
we must change its membership and working methods. 
We must not further postpone that task.
We are proud to belong to a zone of peace, as was 
proclaimed  at  the  second  Summit  of  the  Community 
of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States,  held  in 
Havana in January 2014. Cuba reiterates that the rules 
of  coexistence  based  on  friendship,  cooperation  and 
respect are vital in international relations among States 
and in ensuring the full enjoyment of the right to peace 
and development of their peoples.
Mr.  Akbaruddin  (India):  Today  we  are  about 
to  select  the  ninth  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations. The final report (A/71/1) of Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  is 
therefore an appropriate inflection point for examining 
the  main  challenges  that  face  us  and  the  means  and 
mechanisms  to  mend  our  problems.  Those  are  not 
simple issues, nor are they small in number. However, 
because of the paucity of time, I will focus on just three 
examples  relating  to  international  peace  and  security 
that are emblematic of the problems we face.
In 
globalization 
increasingly 
have 
seen 
interconnected  world 
an 
where  we 
the 
of 
everything  —  from  propaganda  to  violence,  from 
technologies 
to 
the  ill  effects  of  climate  change,  from  conflicts  to 
narco-networks  —  the  response  mechanisms  that  we 
have  in  place  in  the  only  global  organization  of  our 
times are inadequate.
to  cyberattacks, 
from 
terrorism 
Let us begin with the principal organ tasked with the 
maintenance of international peace and security — the 
Security Council. So far this year it has met formally 
on  approximately  180  occasions,  and 
informally 
perhaps  more  than  400  times.  Yet  on  cardinal  issues, 
such  as  Syria,  we  see  inaction;  in  other  situations, 
such as resolution 2304 (2016), on South Sudan, action 
is  agreed  upon  but  not  yet  implemented;  and,  finally, 
where measures are taken, as in the case of resolution 
2276  (2016),  on  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea, they are disregarded.
In  a  variety  of  ways,  therefore,  the  Council  has 
become  unresponsive  to  the  needs  of  our  time  and 
ineffective  in  meeting  the  challenges  it  is  confronted 
with.  It  is  an  organ  that  ponders  for  six  months  on 
whether to punish leaders of organizations it has itself 
designated as terrorist entities. Then, unable to decide, 
it  gives  itself  three  more  months  to  further  consider 
the  issue.  One  has  to  expectantly  wait  throughout  a 
nine-month process to know if Council members have 
decided on a single issue. In some instances it does not 
even begin that nine-month process of identifying and 
listing publicly announced leaders of terrorist entities. 
At best, it is now an organ that can be described as an 
interesting and random mix of “ad-hocism”, scrambling 
and  political  paralysis.  The  global  governance 
architecture calls for comprehensive reform.
Our  public  consciousness  is  being  ravaged  daily 
by  incessant  acts  of  terrorism  targeting  innocent 
people,  our  civilizational  heritage  and,  increasingly, 
the  socioeconomic  infrastructure  of  our  societies, 
especially in vulnerable developing countries.Yet on the 
issue of terrorism the United Nations has still to come 
up with a coherent policy, let alone take the lead on one 
of the biggest threats to global peace and security. As 
many as 31 entities within the United Nations system 
deal with some aspect of countering terrorism. We know 
the adage that too many cooks spoil the broth. That is 
clearly  the  case  here,  as  coherence  and  coordination 
are  missing.  It  is  nearly  impossible  to  argue  the  case 
of the relevance of the United Nations on the issue of 
terrorism, where even the adoption of an international 
norm  on  the  prosecution  or  extradition  of  terrorists 
evades us despite 20 years of talk.
The  inability  to  address  what  is  among  the  most 
dangerous  of  scourges  faced  by  States  and  societies 
collectively  since 
the  Second  World  War  raises 
questions about the relevance of the Organization to the 
very lives of the people on whose behalf we are bound 
by the Charter to act. The choice of relevancy requires 
a willingness to address what is staring us in the face. 
Yet  we  look  away.  We  look  away  as  some  among  us 
stall their collective efforts while they use terrorists as 
proxies in their territorial quests.
  Today,  a  short  while  ago,  we  again  heard  one 
such  lone  voice  making  claims  to  an  integral  part 
of  my  country.  The  voice  comes  from  a  country 
that  has  established  itself  as  the  global  epicentre  of 
terrorism.  Such  claims  find  no  resonance  among  the 
international  community.  Less  than  10  days  ago,  the 
General  Assembly  Hall  witnessed  the  general  debate. 
It  also  witnessed  a  singular  lack  of  support  for  the 
10/16 
16-30880
19/10/2016 
A/71/PV.24
representative of Pakistan’s baseless claims (see A/71/
PV.11). Need one say more? Our response to Pakistan is 
consistent: it should abandon its futile quest. The State 
of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of India and 
will remain so. No amount of misuse of international 
platforms by Pakistan will change that reality. The sell-
by  date  of  Pakistan’s  anachronistic  approach  is  long 
past.
from 
Peacekeeping is the leitmotif of the United Nations. 
However, peacekeeping is under great stress. A plethora 
of tasks and Christmas-tree mandates without adequate 
funding;  a  departure 
the  well-established 
principles of impartiality; the avoidance of the primacy 
of politics and the focus instead on band-aid solutions 
through  peacekeeping;  and  an  unwillingness  to  walk 
away  from  the  quagmires  into  the  sunset  —  these 
are  all  part  of  the  burgeoning  philosophical  dilemma 
facing  peacekeeping.  It  would  appear  that  we  have 
blunted peacekeeping as an effective tool. Additionally, 
there  are  appalling  cases  of  sexual  exploitation  and 
abuse. Peacekeepers turning into predators is our worst 
nightmare  come  true.  India  has  fully  supported  the 
initiative  to  create  a  trust  fund  for  victims  of  sexual 
exploitation  and  abuse.  It  was  the  first  to  contribute 
to  that  fund.  It  is  disappointing  that  only  three  other 
countries have followed suit.
It is now 16 months since the High-level Independent 
Panel  on  Peace  Operations  concluded  its  report  (see 
A/70/95), yet tangible progress and the implementation 
of  its  recommendations  are  still  awaited.  Against 
that  inaction,  a  tally  of  the  disasters  that  are  roiling 
peacekeeping  —  the  most  used  tool  of  the  United 
Nations — makes for worrisome reading.
Those  are  three  key  issues  but  they  are  also 
examples  of  the  many  ailments  of  the  Organization 
that  need  to  be  addressed.  This  raises  the  question 
whether we are failing in our duty to address these and 
other  problems  from  which  the  Organization  suffers. 
Observing the International Day of Non-Violence at the 
United Nations just three days ago, we heard a dictum 
coined by Mahatma Gandhi in his interaction with the 
United Nations as far back as 1947. He said,
“Begin with a charter of duties of man and I promise 
the rights will follow as spring follows winter.”
Gandhi believed that if each person fulfilled his or her 
duties to others, no one’s rights would be violated.
Fulfilling  our  duties  will  correct  a  lot  of  what 
imperils  us  today.  The  duty  to  change  what  is  not 
working is inherent in our commitment to the Charter 
of the United Nations. What we have is an Organization 
that is ailing in many ways. As Member States, it is a 
part of our duty to address those ailments. Now is as 
good a time as any to begin that venture.
and 
establishing 
Mr.  Mendoza-García  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  We  would  like  to  thank  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for his final report (A/71/1) on the work 
of the Organization. Costa Rica would like to recognize 
the  tireless  and  determined  efforts  of  the  Secretary-
General  to  promote  sustainable  development.  The 
process for negotiating the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals was a milestone in the multilateral 
process. We are confident that the Agenda will give new 
direction to the central functions of the Organization. 
It will be directed towards a more firm, more inclusive, 
more universal and more sustainable development — one 
that promotes the creation of peaceful societies, respect 
for human rights and the rule of law and one that leaves 
no one behind. We look forward to continue working in 
that direction and to focus on implementing the Agenda 
with the next Secretary-General.
Costa Rica recognizes the commitment of Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and the extraordinary support he 
gave to the negotiation, signing and entry into force of 
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. The personal 
commitment  of  the  Secretary-General  to  promoting 
this  historic  Agreement  is  especially  remembered 
by  the  Government  of  Costa  Rica.  Now  that  the  first 
threshold  in  terms  of  the  number  of  ratifications  has 
been reached, we are enthusiastically looking forward 
to  the  55  per  cent  threshold  for  global  emitters  over 
the  coming  weeks  so  that  this  important  instrument 
can enter into force as soon as possible. We must now 
prepare for the most important and most complex stage, 
which is the process of its implementation.
We recognize the transformational potential of the 
2030  Agenda  and  the  Paris  Agreement,  and  we  hope 
that  the  very  significant  political  will  underpinning 
both of them will mark an inflection point in terms of 
the complexity, comprehensiveness and transformative 
nature  of  international  agreements  on  sustainable 
development,  and  that,  thanks  to  such  political  will, 
we shall be able to adopt other needed agreements on 
peace, security, disarmament and migration.
16-30880
11/16
A/71/PV.24 
19/10/2016
We  pay  tribute  to  the  Secretary-General’s  full 
commitment  to  making  progress  on  gender  equality 
and  the  empowerment  of  women  in  a  cross-cutting 
manner throughout the agenda of the United Nations. 
The establishment of the High-level Panel on Women’s 
Economic  Empowerment  is  but  one  demonstration 
of  that  commitment.  It  recognizes  the  absolute  need 
to  integrate  all  women  into  the  economic  life  of 
our  societies.  The  President  of  Costa  Rica  had  the 
honour,  at  the  request  of  the  Secretary-General,  to 
co-chair  that  Panel.  Last  September,  it  submitted  its 
preliminary  report,  which  highlighted  the  fact  that 
the  inclusion  of  women  in  economic  activity  was  not 
just the correct approach, but also the most intelligent 
one,  as  it  is  absolutely  necessary  to  ensure  the  full 
and comprehensive implementation of the Sustainable 
Development Goals.
The tenaciousness of the Secretary-General’s drive 
and  support  with  respect  to  gender  issues  deserves 
praise,  and  Costa  Rica,  as  a  country  that  believes  in 
gender equality and women’s empowerment, hopes that 
women and girls will continue to be at the centre of our 
human endeavours.
The  Human  Rights  Up  Front  initiative  and  its 
implementation  in  the  United  Nations  system  must 
continue so that we improve our capacity to respond to 
serious  violations  of  human  rights  and  our  capacities 
to  work  preventively  in  seeking  peace  and  ensuring 
human  rights  for  all.  The  courageous  words  of  the 
Secretary-General  in  defence  of  the  rights  of  lesbian, 
gay,  bisexual,  transgender  and/or  intersex  persons 
should also be highlighted.
Costa  Rica  would  like  to  recognize  the  support 
given to the rule of law as a cross-cutting and enabling 
way of fulfilling the purposes and principles embodied 
in the Charter of the United Nations.
The themes that we have highlighted are but part of 
the legacy left by the Secretary-General, not just over 
the past year but during his entire term of office, for the 
benefit of future generations. Therefore, I would like to 
conclude by expressing our thanks to Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for all his efforts and work throughout his 
term of office.
Mr.  Zaayman  (South  Africa):  My  delegation 
thanks the Secretary-General for his report contained 
in  document  A/71/1.  South  Africa  is  of  the  view  that 
the  debate  on  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
the work of the Organization is an apt way to start our 
activities  in  the  General  Assembly,  as  it  allows  us  to 
take stock and reflect on the work we are doing as an 
Organization.  The  report  reflects  his  clear  vision  and 
his  firm  determination  to  enhance  multilateralism 
and  strengthen  the  authority  and  role  of  the  United 
Nations. The United Nations must remain at the apex 
of multilateralism in addressing the global challenges 
that we face.
There  are  many  pertinent  issues  highlighted  in 
the  report.  My  delegation  wishes  to  focus  on  three, 
namely, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
and combating international terrorism in all its forms 
and manifestations.
South  Africa  supports  the  implementation  of 
the 
transformative  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  without  any  reservations.  The  triple 
challenge  of  poverty,  unemployment  and  inequality 
that the Agenda seeks to address is in line with South 
Africa’s  national  development  plan  as  well  as  the 
African  Union’s  Agenda  2063.  At  the  core  of  South 
Africa’s development plan is the objective to guide our 
policies  and  programmes  in  every  sector,  including 
how  to  allocate  our  budget  and  skills  investment  and 
other resources at the national and local levels in order 
to move South Africa forward and ensure sustainable 
livelihoods  for  all  our  citizens.  That  will  ensure  the 
domestication of the Sustainable Development Goals as 
part of our national development plan.
We need a United Nations that is fit for purpose to 
“save succeeding generations from the scourge of war”, 
as mentioned in the Secretary-General’s report, and the 
need for this has never been greater. Today, the world 
is grappling with a multiplicity of new challenges that 
threaten global peace and security, and therefore require 
the  intervention  of  the  Organization.  While  we  must 
undoubtedly aim to strengthen the tools at our disposal 
in  addressing  conflicts  as  they  arise,  we  must  also 
emphasize  the  preventive  approach  —  as  highlighted 
by the Secretary-General in his report — in addressing 
conflict and its root causes in order to prevent countries 
that are emerging from conflicts from relapsing. South 
Africa is convinced that peace and stability in the world 
will  remain  elusive  if  we  do  not  address  the  nexus 
between security and development.
We  welcome  the  General  Assembly’s  recognition 
of the increasing role that regional organizations play 
in  peacemaking  and  peacekeeping  efforts.  Regional 
12/16 
16-30880
19/10/2016 
A/71/PV.24
organizations  are  well  positioned  to  understand  the 
causes  of  armed  conflicts  owing  to  their  knowledge 
of  the  region,  which  can  benefit  their  efforts  in 
influencing  the  prevention  or  resolution  of  such 
conflicts.  Furthermore, 
they  have  a  comparative 
advantage  owing  to  their  increasing  political  resolve 
to  address  a  situation.  It  is  beneficial  for  the  United 
Nations to work closely with regional and subregional 
organizations  in  their  mediation  and  peacemaking 
efforts.  Over  the  past  few  years  we  have  witnessed 
the  practical  advantages  of  that  cooperation  in  the 
area of peacekeeping on the African continent. While 
we  acknowledge  that  the  primary  responsibility  for 
international peace and security lies with the Security 
Council,  it  is  often  regional  organizations  such  as 
the African Union that are the first responders in the 
stabilizing of crisis situations.
The  African  continent  is  one  of  the  largest  troop 
to  United  Nations-mandated  peace 
contributors 
the  continent  has  made 
operations.  Additionally, 
significant progress in activating its Peace and Security 
Architecture. That notwithstanding, more needs to be 
done to ensure that the continent has adequate capacity 
to  address  its  peace  and  security  challenges.  In  that 
regard, we are calling on the United Nations to support 
and adequately fund the Joint United Nations-African 
Union  Framework  for  an  Enhanced  Partnership  in 
Peace and Security.
The threat of terrorism continues to challenge the 
international  community.  While  the  threat  grows  and 
mutates, the results of terrorist acts remain the same: 
sowing  devastation,  killing  and  maiming  innocent 
people, damaging property and infrastructure, fostering 
fear  in  local  communities,  undermining    social  and 
economic confidence and, in many cases, entrenching 
the forces of poverty. Conflict situations, including in 
the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  have  also  created 
fertile  environments  for  terrorist  groups  to  carry 
out  their  brutal  acts  with  impunity.  The  activities  of 
those groups have complicated the search for political 
solutions, which are necessary for the re-establishment 
of  peace,  security  and  stability  and  the  enjoyment  of 
fundamental rights and freedoms.
To counter the narratives and ideologies of terrorism 
in the medium to long term, international cooperation 
must address the conditions and contexts that drive it. 
Military approaches alone cannot resolve the challenge 
of  terrorism.  The  United  Nations,  with  the  broad 
range  of  expertise  and  tools  at  its  disposal,  is  in  the 
best  position  to  lead  the  coordination  of  international 
efforts in this regard. South Africa continues to support 
the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  countering 
terrorism  and  strengthening  the  multilateral  system 
to  take  effective  measures  within  the  framework  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international 
law.  Initiatives  to  further  improve  coordination  and 
cooperation among the United Nations entities involved 
in  countering  terrorism  and  coordination  between 
the  United  Nations  and  regional  structures  should  be 
encouraged and supported.
We  acknowledge  the  work  being  done  by  the 
General Assembly and Security Council in guiding the 
international  community’s  response  to  terrorism.  The 
General Assembly, with its universal membership, has a 
valuable contribution to make. Both the United Nations 
Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy and the Secretary-
General’s Plan of Action to Prevent Violent Extremism 
have added to the tools at our disposal to counter this 
threat,  as  they  are  premised  not  only  on  addressing 
conditions conducive to the spread of terrorism but also 
on respect for the rule of law and human rights. While 
great strides have been made, much more needs to be 
done.  My  delegation  looks  forward  to  contributing  in 
that regard.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  wishes  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General and the Secretariat for their services 
to  the  Organization.  We  assure  them  and  all  Member 
States of our commitment to ensuring that we progress 
closer  to  our  shared  goal  of  achieving  a  better  world 
for all.
Mr.  Shaltut  (Libya)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  My 
delegation  has  perused  the  report  (A/71/1)  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization. 
We would like to thank the Secretary-General and the 
Secretariat for their efforts, especially those expended 
on the preparation of the report. The topics dealt with 
by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  report  are  of  great 
importance for my delegation and for the Government 
of National Accord, which will represent Libya in this 
international forum. Among these important topics are 
sustainable  development,  migration  and  respect  for, 
and  the  promotion  of,  human  rights  and  international 
peace and security.
As the Assembly is aware, my country is passing 
through  a  transitional  phase.  This  phase  has  involved 
meetings  that  led  to  the  formation  of  the  Presidential 
16-30880
13/16
A/71/PV.24 
19/10/2016
Council of the Government of National Accord, which 
began its work in March.
of the report of the Secretary-General on the work of 
the Organization, as contained in document A/71/1?
The  question  of  migration  is  one  that  concerns 
all States. With a long Mediterranean border of 2,000 
kilometres,  my  country  —  like  others  —  is  suffering 
from the repercussions of the migration problem. While 
we express our sympathy with all those who have found 
themselves in difficult situations, we want to indicate 
that Libya, in its current situation, cannot resolve the 
problem on its own. Libya sympathizes with the victims 
who  have  drowned  in  the  sea  or  died  in  the  desert; 
however,  this  major  question  requires  the  assistance 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  international  community, 
developed  countries  and  countries  possessing  the 
appropriate technologies.
From Libya’s point of view, the issue of migration 
necessitates  working 
to  establish  and  promote 
development projects in the countries of origin so as to 
provide employment opportunities for those who might 
otherwise  seek  to  migrate,  thereby  enabling  them  to 
work in their own countries. Such projects would help 
to prevent the catastrophic conditions that have befallen 
those  desiring  to  improve  their  lives  by  leaving  their 
countries of origin and heading to other countries that 
might offer a better standard of living and a better life.
As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  Libya  has  been 
cooperating  with  the  various  United  Nations  bodies, 
including the Security Council and the Human Rights 
Council.  The  United  Nations  Support  Mission  in 
Libya  has  been  working  in  cooperation  with  Libyan 
national authorities, particularly with the Government 
of National Accord. Cooperation has been fruitful and 
constructive.  Libya  has  spared  no  effort  to  develop 
such cooperation in order to emerge from the political 
dilemma it has experienced during the past two years.
The issue of countering terrorism is an extremely 
important one, and it receives Libya’s full attention. The 
forces  of  the  Presidential  Council  of  the  Government 
of National Accord have declared war on behalf of the 
world against the terrorists in the city of Serte and are 
close to eliminating them.
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  Before 
calling on the speaker in the exercise the right of reply, 
may  I  remind  delegations  that,  in  accordance  with 
decision 34/401, statements in the exercise of the right of 
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention 
and  to  five  minutes  for  the  second  intervention,  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
I now give the floor to the representative of Pakistan.
Ms. Sayed (Pakistan): I take the floor to respond to 
the remarks made by the Permanent Representative of 
India with regard to the issue of Jammu and Kashmir.
We  believe  that  equating  a  legitimate  struggle 
for  self-determination  with  terrorism  is  not  only 
disingenuous,  but  a  travesty  of  history.  The  issue  of 
Kashmir  cannot  be  wished  away  by  fanciful  rhetoric 
and claims. Nor can India justify the barbaric killings 
and atrocities committed against the hapless Kashmiris 
under any guise.
Jammu  and  Kashmir  is  not  an  integral  part  of 
India, and never has been. It is an issue on the agenda 
of the Security Council and is recognized as disputed 
territory. This core issue cannot be cast aside by empty 
rhetoric.  It  has  to  be  resolved  in  accordance  with 
Security Council resolutions. There is a need to start a 
dialogue with Pakistan and the two representatives of 
Jammu and Kashmir to resolve the issue according to 
the will of the Kashmiri people. I would like to reiterate 
that Prime Minister Muhammad Nawaz Sharif, in his 
address in this forum (see A/71/PV.11), clearly reiterated 
his offer to India to enter into a serious and sustained 
dialogue for the peaceful resolution of all outstanding 
disputes, especially Jammu and Kashmir.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 
take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  wishes  to  conclude 
its consideration of agenda item 109?
It was so decided.
Finally, I would like to express Libya’s continued 
readiness to cooperate with all United Nations bodies 
and agencies.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
now heard the last speaker in the debate on agenda item 
109. May I take it that the General Assembly takes note 
Agenda item 127
Global health and foreign policy
Draft resolution (A/71/L.2)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  a  draft 
14/16 
16-30880
19/10/2016 
A/71/PV.24
resolution  entitled  “Political  Declaration  of  the  high-
level meeting of the General Assembly on antimicrobial 
resistance”, issued as document A/71/L.2.
Council Affairs and Conference Management — would 
be included in the proposed programme budget for the 
biennium 2018-2019.
I should like to remind members that the debate on 
agenda item 127 is scheduled to be held on Wednesday, 
7 December, as announced in the programme of work 
contained in document A/71/3.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/71/L.2.  I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
Ms.  Ochalik  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): This statement is made 
in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure 
of the General Assembly, and is also made available in 
advance on the PaperSmart portal.
By paragraph 15 of draft resolution A/71/L.2, the 
General Assembly would request the Secretary-General 
to  establish,  in  consultation  with  the  World  Health 
Organization,  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization 
of the United Nations and the World Organization for 
Animal  Health,  an  ad  hoc  inter-agency  coordination 
group,  co-chaired  by  the  Executive  Office  of  the 
Secretary-General and the World Health Organization, 
drawing, where necessary, on expertise from relevant 
stakeholders, 
for 
approaches needed to ensure sustained effective global 
action  to  address  antimicrobial  resistance,  and  also 
request  the  Secretary-General  to  submit  a  report  for 
consideration  by  Member  States  by  the  seventy-third 
session of the General Assembly on the implementation 
of the present declaration and on further developments 
and  recommendations  emanating  from  the  ad  hoc 
inter-agency  group,  including  on  options  to  improve 
coordination, taking into account the global action plan 
on antimicrobial resistance.
to  provide  practical  guidance 
It  is  anticipated  that  the  request  contained  in 
paragraph  15  will  constitute  an  addition  to  the 
documentation  workload  of 
for 
General  Assembly  and  Conference  Management  of 
one  document  of  8,500  words,  to  be  issued  in  all  six 
languages.  That  would  entail  additional  requirements 
in  the  amount  of  $37,600  for  documentation  services 
in 2018.
the  Department 
 Accordingly, should the General Assembly adopt 
draft  resolution  A/71/L.2,  the  additional  resource 
requirements of $37,600 that would arise for 2018 under 
section 2 — General Assembly and Economic and Social 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now take a decision on draft resolution 
A/71/L.2,  entitled  “Political  Declaration  of  the  high-
level meeting of the General Assembly on antimicrobial 
resistance”.
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt 
draft resolution A/71/L.2?
Draft resolution A/71/L.2 was adopted (resolution 
71/3).
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on the representative of Mexico.
Mr. Gómez Camacho (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
Contrary to what we would have imagined not long ago 
in this Hall, we have realized not only that health care 
is of global interest, but that it must occupy a central 
role on the agenda of the Organization. As with HIV/
AIDS,  non-communicable  diseases  and  Ebola,  the 
General Assembly has now, at the highest level, dealt 
with antimicrobial resistance.
Indeed,  resistance  to  antimicrobial  treatments, 
particularly antibiotics, is one of the greatest threats we 
are facing today, as we see that people are beginning to 
die throughout the world from infectious diseases that 
until  recently  were  routinely  treated  and  cured.  It  is 
undoubtedly a crisis when resistant pathogens are being 
transmitted  and  multiplying  in  people,  animals  and 
food, and causing 700,000 deaths each year. By 2050, 
such resistance could generate more deaths than cancer 
and could take 10 million lives per year. Moreover, its 
economic  impact  would  then  exceed  that  of  the  2008 
financial crisis and reach a cost of $100 trillion. That 
represents between 2 and 3.5 per cent of global gross 
domestic product. As Margaret Chan has said, this is a 
slow tsunami that respects no borders.
The term “antimicrobial resistance” once had little 
meaning.  However,  today  it  is  understood  in  all  its 
grave and complex aspects. We know that the solution 
must  be  collective  and  multifaceted,  with  the  support 
of various United Nations entities. As with many other 
formidable  challenges,  antimicrobial  resistance  is  not 
a North-South issue, or a competition where one party 
wins and the other party loses. It is a global threat that 
requires efforts from all of us and, in order to resolve 
it,  we  must  recognize  the  specific  circumstances 
16-30880
15/16
A/71/PV.24 
19/10/2016
prevailing in each region and country. In addition, the 
most advanced countries must commit to cooperating 
with all the other countries.
  Furthermore,  the  roles  of  the  pharmaceutical 
and  food  industries  will  be  key.  We  have  seen  major 
commitments  on  the  part  of  both.  However,  we 
must  continue  strengthening  knowledge  and  mutual 
understanding with a view to establishing the conditions 
that will enable the pharmaceutical industry to develop 
new antibiotics and the food industry to reduce its use of 
antibiotics. Both sectors must continue increasing their 
understanding of the social challenges and determining 
which actions to undertake or to end.
I  would  like  to  thank  President  Thomson  and 
President  Lykketoft  for  entrusting  this  task  to  me, 
and  to  extend  my  gratitude  to  the  organizations  and 
delegations whose constructive work led to the robust 
Political Declaration.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I would 
like to express my sincere thanks to Ambassador Juan 
José  Gómez  Camacho  of  Mexico,  facilitator  of  the 
informal consultations, who demonstrated great ability 
and  patience  in  his  conduct  of  the  discussions  and 
complex negotiations on the outcome document. I also 
thank Member States for their valuable contributions in 
reaching agreement on draft resolution (A/71/L.2).
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 127.
Programme of work
(spoke 
The  Acting  President 
in  French): 
Before  adjourning,  I  would  like  to  briefly  refer  to 
the  consideration  of  sub-item  (b)  of  agenda  item  115, 
entitled “Election of the members of the International 
Law Commission”, which will take place on Thursday, 
3 November.
In order to facilitate the election of members of the 
International Law Commission, and in accordance with 
the  established  practice,  the  General  Assembly  will 
take  an  advance  decision  on  the  matter  of  requesting 
the Secretariat to issue a consolidated list of candidates 
reflecting  all  submissions  and  changes  received  so 
far. It is my intention to consult the Assembly in that 
regard  at  the  plenary  meeting  to  be  held  tomorrow 
morning,  6  October,  as  announced  in  The  Journal  of 
the United Nations.
The meeting rose at 11.45 a.m.
16/16 
16-30880
