United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
10th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 20 September 2016, 6.20 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.10
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Zamora Rivas 
(El Salvador), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.20 p.m.
Address by Mr. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, President 
of the Republic of Portugal
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Portugal.
Mr.  Marcelo  Rebelo  de  Sousa,  President  of  the 
Republic of Portugal, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Marcelo 
Rebelo de Sousa, President of the Republic of Portugal, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Rebelo de Sousa: First of all, I would like 
to congratulate the President of the General Assembly, 
Mr. Peter Thomson, on his election and commend him 
for the theme chosen for the seventy-first session of the 
General  Assembly.  Following  the  success  a  year  ago 
of the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals, 
we need a universal push to transform our world. The 
General Assembly may rest assured that it can count on 
Portugal’s committed contribution. I would also like to 
extend Portugal’s recognition to the Secretary-General, 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his capacity for dialogue, vision 
for  the  future  and  commitment  to  promoting  a  more 
efficient United Nations.
(spoke  in  Portuguese;  English  text  provided  by 
the delegation)
In an increasingly complex world, the Organization 
will always be an irreplaceable institution in the eyes of 
its Members. I therefore reiterate Portugal’s unwavering 
and  enduring  commitment  to  the  United  Nations,  the 
Charter and its guiding purposes and principles, as well 
as  its  strict  respect  for  international  law.  The  historic 
agreements, on the Sustainable Development Goals and 
climate change, reached in 2015 and 2016, respectively, 
the  World  Humanitarian  Summit  and  the  General 
Assembly  special  session  on  the  world  drug  problem 
were all major achievements that exemplified effective, 
United Nations-centred multilateralism.
The  General  Assembly’s  special  session  on  the 
world  drug  problem,  held  in  April,  was  an  important 
step forward taken by the international community to 
realize an integrated and humanist vision. Having held 
such a vision for over a decade, Portugal regards it as 
the necessary and successful global response. In this as 
in other domains, we must now make additional efforts 
and focus primarily on prevention.
A culture of prevention should also be developed in 
the area of maintaining peace and security by promoting 
sustainable development and respect for human rights, 
with the ultimate aim of safeguarding human dignity, 
relieving  suffering  and  ending  poverty.  To  this  end,  I 
would like to highlight this year’s review of the United 
Nations peace and security architecture, including the 
women and peace and security dimension. It provided 
an opportunity to reinforce United Nations preventive 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29415 (E)
*1629415*
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
capabilities.  For  example,  strengthening  preventive 
action  in  Africa  is  essential  to  prevent  many  of  the 
crises  the  continent  is  facing  from  developing,  while 
respecting African ownership of the processes. Portugal 
will continue to contribute to this effort, in particular 
by deploying military contingents in such peacekeeping 
operations  as  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali and the United 
Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization 
Mission in the Central African Republic .
It is also worth noting our commitment to promoting 
maritime  security  in  the  Gulf  of  Guinea,  as  can  be 
seen in our current presidency of the Group of Seven 
Group of Friends of the Gulf of Guinea. We continue 
to  support  Guinea-Bissau  and  we  are  confident  that 
constructive  political  dialogue  will  be  undertaken  to 
reach  a  sustainable  solution  within  the  constitutional 
framework in order to meet the legitimate aspirations 
of the Guinean people. We also believe that a meeting 
of  the  International  Contact  Group  on  Guinea-Bissau 
needs  to  be  held  with  the  utmost  urgency  in  order  to 
reassert  the  international  community’s  consensus  in 
favour of long-awaited structural reforms.
On the other side of the Atlantic, we welcomed the 
talks held in Havana, which led to a peace agreement 
for  Colombia,  one  of  Portugal’s  partners  at  Ibero-
American summits. That agreement paves the way for 
national  reconciliation  among  all  Colombians,  which 
will allow them to live together in peace and in respect 
for  the  rule  of  law  and  the  views  of  others.  We  will 
participate in the peacekeeping process by contributing 
personnel to the prospective United Nations mission, as 
well as financially through the European Union Trust 
Fund for Colombia.
It  is  the  Israeli-Palestinian  issue,  however,  that 
demonstrates that there is still a way to go in terms of 
peacebuilding. That is why I would reiterate Portugal’s 
support  for  international  efforts  aimed  at  bringing 
about  the  resumption  of  peace  talks.  We  hope  that 
United  Nations  resolutions  can  provide  a  basis  for 
a  sustainable  solution  to  the  conflict  with  a  view  to 
ensuring the existence of a sovereign, independent and 
viable  Palestinian  State  living  side  by  side  with  the 
State  of  Israel,  whose  legitimate  security  aspirations 
must be guaranteed. 
on  the  Korean  peninsula,  which  we  condemn.  We 
call  for  resumed  collaboration  among  neighbours 
and  the  international  community  aimed  at  having  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  suspend  its 
nuclear programme.
From the subway station in Brussels to Mogadishu 
airport,  from  a  club  in  Orlando  to  Quetta  hospital  in 
Pakistan, the pure inhumanity of these terrorist attacks 
is not just against the targeted countries and the victims; 
rather, it is against all those who endorse the principles 
and  values  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  —  the  193 
States gathered here today — and it is against humankind 
as a whole. Terrorism cannot be tolerated. The United 
Nations,  through  its  mandate  from  the  international 
community,  has  the  lawful  right  and  the  moral  duty 
to  end  this  scourge,  and  specifically  one  of  its  major 
proponents,  Da’esh.  We  shall  not  give  in  to  fear,  nor 
shall  we  forfeit  our  values  or  principles,  particularly 
with regard to human rights. It is through the values of 
peace, tolerance, human dignity and solidarity that we 
should  fight  radicalization  and  violent  extremism,  as 
well  as  the  xenophobia  and  demagogic  populism  that 
threaten our societies.
The  Middle  East,  North  Africa  and  Europe  are 
confronting a humanitarian crisis of tragic proportions 
resulting  from  the  exodus  of  refugees  and  migrants, 
many of whom are very young children. We must get 
to the root of the problem and eradicate the terror and 
fear that have befallen the region, finding a politically 
sustainable solution for the conflict in Syria based on 
the recently negotiated ceasefire.
Another issue underlying this humanitarian crisis is 
the growing wave of immigration that is essentially the 
result of a lack of opportunities in the migrants’ countries 
of  origin.  Resolving  conflicts,  stabilizing  political 
situations and investing in countries’ development are 
surely  the  best  way  to  contribute  to  the  stability  and 
prosperity of all. Portugal has turned the willingness it 
expressed from the beginning of the crisis into the act 
of hosting migrants who need international protection. 
We  have  gone  far  beyond  the  European  Union  quota 
set  out  for  us.  Indeed,  we  have  accepted  twice  the 
number of migrants than required under this quota. We 
will  continue  to  take  in  these  migrants  and  abide  by 
the effective integration practices that characterize the 
welcoming and multicultural Portuguese society.
Furthermore,  we  are  also  very  concerned  about 
the recent escalation of threats to security and stability 
I would like to stress the importance of promoting 
higher education for refugees in emergency situations 
2/30 
16-29415
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.10
so that a generation of migrants is not lost. Portugal has 
already  accepted  over  100  Syrian  university  students 
and calls for similar involvement on the part of many 
other countries. I myself am a university professor, and 
I have taught students from Syria.
With  regard  to  the  right  to  education,  I  would 
recall that 50 years ago the General Assembly adopted 
the  International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social  and 
Cultural Rights and the International Covenant on Civil 
and  Political  Rights.  I  call  on  all  Member  States  that 
have not yet done so to join these important instruments. 
In addition, on the issue of human rights, we have 
come a long way in terms of gender equality, although 
much still needs to be done. Gender issues are a topic of 
cross-cutting importance, particularly in the context of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 
women  and  peace  and  security  agenda.  Furthermore, 
as  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Portugal 
remains  committed  to  the  defence  and  promotion  of 
human rights and the strengthening of bodies set up by 
human rights treaties.
The issue of oceans and seas is a priority for Portugal. 
History advises it, geography imposes it and the future 
demands it. In this regard, I would mention the Oceans 
Meeting  2016,  which  we  hosted  in  Lisbon  earlier  this 
year.  We  will  continue  to  work  towards  mobilizing 
global efforts aimed at the conservation and sustainable 
exploitation  of  the  oceans.  Accordingly,  Portugal  is 
looking  forward  to  being  an  engaged  participant  at 
the  first  United  Nations  Conference  to  Support  the 
Implementation of Sustainable Development Goal 14, on 
oceans, seas and marine resources, which will be held in 
New York in 2017. Furthermore, with regard to the link 
to climate change, I reiterate Portugal’s commitment to 
small island developing States in supporting the efforts 
needed to overcome the challenges they face, which are 
the  responsibility  of  the  international  community  as 
a whole.
Finally,  as  the  process  of  appointing  the  next 
Secretary-General is under way, I would like to express 
my sincerest wish that whoever takes up this position 
has  the  human  and  professional  qualities  required  to 
meet the challenge. He or she should possess the ability 
to  bring  together  hearts  and  minds  and  embody  the 
values and courses of action that Mahatma Gandhi and 
Nelson  Mandela  exemplified  in  their  lives.  We  need 
someone who transcends their group or circle, uniting 
and  representing  everyone  and  not  just  a  chosen  few, 
who  will  build  bridges,  listen  and  demonstrate  the 
innate wisdom and leadership skills to make decisions 
with which everyone can identify and in which everyone 
feels included.
As  Vergílio  Ferreira,  a  great  Portuguese  writer, 
said, “Mine is the language of the sea.” The Portuguese 
language is shared by 250 million speakers, represented 
by  the  nine  States  members  of  the  Community  of 
Portuguese-speaking  Countries,  which  celebrates  its 
twentieth anniversary this year. Inspired, therefore, by 
the ocean — to some it is the Atlantic, to others it is the 
Pacific — which brings life to the planet and unites us 
all, I have come to address the General Assembly today. 
I wish the Assembly every success in the seventy-first 
session that we are now launching, reiterating that we 
support  new  President  of  the  Assembly  and  welcome 
his  leadership.  Portugal’s  position  is,  has  been  and 
always will be to provide firm, enthusiastic support to 
the United Nations as it fulfils its role in building peace, 
liberty, development and justice throughout the world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Portugal for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Marcelo  Rebelo  de  Sousa,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Portugal,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Enrique Peña Nieto, President of 
the United Mexican States
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the United Mexican States.
Mr.  Enrique  Peña  Nieto,  President  of  the  United 
Mexican  States,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Enrique Peña 
Nieto, President of the United Mexican States, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Peña  Nieto  (spoke  in  Spanish):  It  is 
an honour and a privilege to stand here once again at 
this  high  rostrum  at  the  United  Nations,  the  home  of 
universal peace, cooperation and brotherhood. Mexico 
has  always  been  a  staunch  ally  of  the  United  Nations 
and a nation that firmly believes in its transformative 
16-29415
3/30
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
power. From this Hall, vital collective efforts have been 
undertaken in pursuit of humankind’s noblest causes.
focused on ensuring the full enjoyment of social rights, 
thereby reducing poverty and increasing equality. 
For over seven decades, global voices have called 
for  a  better  future.  Each  generation  has  taken  on 
the  challenges  of  its  time  with  determination.  It  is 
incumbent  upon  us  to  continue  in  the  same  spirit  to 
confront the enormous challenge of making sustainable 
development  of  the  planet  a  reality.  We  have  already 
taken  the  first  step  in  that  direction,  specifically  by 
defining  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  The 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  which 
we  formulated  and  agreed  on  here  at  the  United 
Nations,  is  without  a  doubt  the  boldest,  noblest  and 
most  demanding  action  plan  that  the  international 
community has adopted in recent history. It is a road 
map  for  national  and  subnational  Governments,  just 
as  it  is  for  all  of  society’s  stakeholders  that  have  the 
mission of improving the lives of billions of people and 
leaving no one behind. Because of its scope and goals, 
the 2030 Agenda is the framework that harmonizes the 
agreements  reached  last  year  in  the  areas  of  human 
rights, environment and sustainable peace.
What have the national efforts of Mexico been in this 
arena? First of all, we have taken on the implementation 
of the 2030 Agenda as a national commitment. Along the 
same lines, work is under way to establish a high-level 
council  for  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda, 
which will be headed by the President of the republic. 
Its purpose will be to coordinate the work of the various 
stakeholders,  including  local  authorities,  lawmakers, 
and representatives of civil society, academia and the 
private  sector.  Mexico  has  also  set  up  a  specialized 
technical  committee  composed  of  the  main  federal 
institutions,  tasked  with  measuring  and  monitoring 
the  Agenda’s  indicators.  Similarly,  we  are  creating  a 
public monitoring dashboard in order to transparently 
share our successes and remaining challenges with the 
public. As part of that commitment to transparency and 
accountability, Mexico was one of the 22 countries that 
on  19  July  presented  their  voluntary  national  review 
documents to the high-level political forum.
Mexico 
to  promoting 
is  also  committed 
the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  at  the  regional 
level.  In  April  next  year  we  will  chair  the  Forum  of 
the Countries of Latin American and the Caribbean on 
Sustainable Development. Given that human rights are 
now  a  cross-cutting  element  in  the  2030  Agenda,  my 
country has adopted a national social inclusion strategy 
We applaud the recognition in the 2030 Agenda of 
migrants as subjects of rights and as vital allies in the 
development of their countries of destination and origin. 
As I stated yesterday at the plenary meeting (see A/71/
PV.4B ), Mexico will work actively for the creation of 
agreements  on  migration  and  refugees.  To  that  end, 
we  have  offered  to  host  an  international  preparatory 
meeting  for  reaching  a  better  definition  of  the  global 
compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. In the 
face  of  these  challenges,  we  should  leave  behind  our 
indifference and promote the shared responsibility and 
joint action of the international community with regard 
to migrants and refugees. 
Another  cross-cutting  theme  of  the  2030  Agenda 
is gender perspective and the empowerment of women. 
In keeping with the commitments of last year’s Global 
Leaders’  Meeting  on  Gender  Equality  and  Women’s 
Empowerment: A Commitment to Action, Mexico now 
has a more robust institutional framework in its national 
system for equality between women and men. The fact 
that that system is headed by Mexico’s President ensures 
that the policy of equality is upheld at the highest level 
and is reflected in the national Government’s actions. 
Additionally,  driven  by  a  sense  of  urgency, 
Mexico  has  adopted  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change. A few days ago my country’s Ssenate ratified 
that  international  treaty,  which  will  be  submitted  for 
entry into force at tomorrow’s high-level meeting. Our 
priority  now  is  to  develop  national  mechanisms  to 
coordinate,  verify  and  report  on  compliance  with  the 
commitments assumed under that agreement.
We  must  henceforward  change  the  way  we  live, 
produce  and  consume.  We  must  harmonize  economic 
development  with  social  inclusion  and  environmental 
protection. One example of that balance can be seen in 
my  country’s  energy  reform,  which  includes  a  law  of 
energy transition whereby, by 2018, 25 per cent of its 
electric energy will be generated using clean sources, 
reaching 70 per cent by 2040. Similarly, at the regional 
level, the three North American nations have committed 
to reducing our oil and gas sectors’ methane emissions 
by between 40 and 45 per cent by 2025.
As part of its global responsibility to the environment, 
Mexico  will  host  the  thirteenth  Conference  of  the 
Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, to be 
held in December. That forum seeks to align actions to 
4/30 
16-29415
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.10
protect and preserve our natural heritage with the Aichi 
Biodiversity  Targets  and  those  of  the  2030  Agenda. 
By the same token, next year we will host the Global 
Platform  for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction,  which  will 
assess the first two years of the Sendai Framework for 
Disaster Risk Reduction and will set goals for reducing 
and mitigating development risks.
Thirdly, Mexico has reaffirmed its pacifist vocation 
and  its  commitment  to  achieving  sustainable  global 
peace.  The  international  community  has  confirmed 
that the stability of countries affected by armed conflict 
depends not only on their security conditions, but also 
on their respect for human rights, on the effectiveness 
of  their  institutions  and  the  rule  of  law,  and  on  their 
ability  to  foster  inclusive  development.  This  cross-
cutting  vision  is  fully  in  line  with  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals. In that regard, the Goals are key to 
preventing and avoiding social and political crises and 
will also be crucial to finding peaceful solutions to the 
armed conflicts in many countries. 
The  most  recent  example  is  the  peace  agreement 
reached in Colombia. Mexico applauds that achievement, 
and we will show our solidarity with the attainment of 
its goals. Similarly, in the pursuit of reduced tension and 
greater understanding in our region, Mexico repeats its 
call for the lifting of the economic, trade and financial 
blockade imposed upon Cuba. 
If peace is to last, it must be sustainable. To that end, 
the  new  paradigm  entails  focusing  efforts  on  conflict 
prevention  and  using  a  proactive,  strategic  and  long-
term  approach.  We  recognize  that  one  of  the  greatest 
threats is the existence of nuclear weapons. Historically, 
Mexico has been a proponent of disarmament and has 
emphatically condemned nuclear tests. We will continue 
to work towards a world free of that global threat.
I would like to take this opportunity to recognize 
the  positive  work  of  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  at  the  head  of 
the  United  Nations  Secretariat.  Mexico  appreciates 
his  dedication  and  commitment.  Thanks  to  his  vision 
and leadership, agreements of great importance for the 
future of the planet have been reached in recent years. 
That  is  no  minor  feat,  especially  given  the  highly 
volatile and complex international context in which he 
has had to perform his duties.
their current conditions. That situation creates a divide 
between  citizens  and  their  authorities,  which  fuels 
mistrust in institutions and heightens uncertainty about 
the future. In Latin America, for example, the the clear 
deterioration in public support for democracy revealed 
by  the  Latinobarómetro  survey  is  extremely  grave. 
Faced with that challenge, the world cannot fall into the 
trap of demagoguery or authoritarianism.
The only viable path ahead, the only true response 
to  a  demanding  citizenry,  is  democracy  itself.  The 
response  must  be  more  openness,  more  transparency 
and better accountability. As Governments, we must be 
able to listen to and to deal with an increasingly well-
informed citizenry that has more means at its disposal 
for  expressing  opinions  and  participating  in  public 
affairs.  Social  networks  are  enabling  greater  public 
participation,  turning  each  individual  into  a  potential 
agent for change.
In  that  context,  Governments  must  make  greater 
efforts  to  better  communicate  with  the  societies  they 
serve.  Governments  must  communicate  to  publicize 
achievements,  to  recognize  and  explain  missteps,  but 
above all to map out the road ahead together with their 
societies. It is essential that we promote public debate, 
contrast ideas and assume shared commitments, using the 
new communication technologies that are increasingly 
available and accessible to the entire population. Let us 
recognize  in  our  pluralism  and  ongoing  dialogue  the 
ideal  tools  for  building  in  democracy  a  better  future. 
The response to disillusionment with democracy lies in 
democracy itself. Our Governments must foster societies 
that are increasingly inclusive and participatory, where 
all citizens enjoy the benefits of development.
Going forward, we already have a clearly defined 
road  map,  based  on  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals.  These  are  very  clear  Goals  for  overcoming 
poverty and ensuring equal opportunity, gender equity, 
protection of the environment and justice and peace on 
which  all  our  countries  must  concentrate  our  efforts. 
Mexico reaffirms its strong commitment to democratic 
principles as the only path to achieving the Sustainable 
Development Goals.
In  recent  decades,  the  world  has  made  great 
progress, including major improvements in the quality 
of  the  lives  of  millions  of  people.  Even  so,  it  is  also 
true  that  many  societies  are  clearly  dissatisfied  with 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the United Mexican States for the statement he has 
just made.
16-29415
5/30
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
Mr.  Enrique  Peña  Nieto,  President  of  the  United 
Mexican  States,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Majesty Don Felipe VI , King of the 
Kingdom of Spain
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the King of the 
Kingdom of Spain.
His Majesty Don Felipe VI, King of the Kingdom of 
Spain, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to 
welcome to the United Nations His Majesty Don Felipe 
VI, King of the Kingdom of Spain, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
King Felipe (spoke in Spanish): Two years ago, I 
addressed  the  General  Assembly  for  the  first  time  as 
King  of  Spain  (see  A/69/PV.6).  I  feel  at  present  the 
same honour and the same responsibility as I did on that 
occasion,  because  the  United  Nations  is  the  universal 
forum for peace and progress for humankind, the place 
where we must secure the future of our planet.
That  is  how  the  Spanish  people  understand  the 
demands  on  us.  Today,  we  cannot  disappoint  the 
billions  of  people  who,  like  Spanish  society,  believe 
in the purposes, principles and values of the 1945 San 
Francisco  Charter  and  of  the  2015  Declaration  on  the 
occasion  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  United 
Nations that Spain helped to promote in defence of what 
the United Nations represents. With that Declaration, we 
wanted to tell the world that the Charter was not simply 
a beacon that lit the dark times of the past, but that it 
also illuminates our present and our future. For it is the 
beacon to which the children in refugee camps direct 
their eyes, as do the mothers who protect their children 
while  crossing  the  Mediterranean  —  a  plight  which 
deeply moves us. It is the hope for those who have lost 
loved ones owing to natural disasters or hunger, those 
who defend human rights and common human dignity, 
and those who are persecuted as victims of terrorism in 
all its despicable forms. It is also the inspiration for the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, to which we 
have all committed ourselves with a view to putting an 
end to hunger and extreme poverty and to designing a 
model for development that is sustainable in the course 
of a generation.
For Spain, the 2030 Agenda is a source of inspiration 
for  our  domestic  and  foreign  actions.  We  must  fight 
inequality  and  work  towards  an  economic  model  that 
fosters  shared  prosperity  and  provides  employment 
opportunities for young people and, in general, for all 
those  who  have  suffered  most  from  the  impact  of  the 
crisis  in  recent  years.  No  one  should  be  left  behind 
because of what we do or fail to do.
In order to advance the cause that concerns us all, 
combating the effects of climate change is critical. I am 
pleased to underline that, nearly a year ago in Paris, we 
were able to reach a crucial agreement in this matter. 
Our  compliance  is  an  unavoidable  priority  for  us  all, 
and one on which we will be called to account by present 
and  future  generations.  The  upcoming  twenty-second 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to 
be held in Morocco, will offer an excellent opportunity 
to further strengthen our commitment.
Finally,  the  Charter  today  serves  as  a  beacon  for 
Colombia.  The  Spanish  people  welcome  the  peace 
agreement  reached  in  that  beloved  country,  which 
has  the  strong  support  of  our  Government  on  both 
the  bilateral  and  the  multilateral  level.  Our  Congress 
of  Deputies  has  unanimously  supported  it.  Spain  will 
stand  beside  the  Colombian  people  so  that  they  can 
achieve  the  fruits  of  peace  for  all  Colombians,  who 
will have the last word in the plebiscite scheduled for 
2 October.
The European, Ibero-American and Mediterranean 
dimensions  that  constitute  the  identity  of  the  Spanish 
people testify to our universal vocation. We are amon 
the  countries  that  have  had  the  greatest  impact  on 
history, and we are proud of our substantial contribution 
to the common heritage of humankind. 
This  year,  we  celebrate  the  400th  anniversary  of 
the  death  of  Cervantes,  a  universally  acknowledged 
literary  genius,  who  was  able  to  convey  his  belief 
that  portraying  a  noble  and  generous  spirit  is  the 
best  way  to  live  in  the  world.  For  us,  the  children  of 
Cervantes, knowing how to live means, above all else, 
knowing how to live with others. When we coexist in 
a democratic framework that safeguards our hard-won 
rights and freedoms, together with our respect for our 
diversity,  that  is  when  we  give  the  best  of  ourselves 
and  contribute  in  more  and  better  ways  to  the  peace, 
security and prosperity of the international community, 
as we will continue to do.
6/30 
16-29415
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.10
All advanced democracies, such as ours, go through 
difficult times at some point in their history. But they 
come  through  them  thanks  to  the  strength  and  unity 
of  their  societies,  the  robustness  of  their  institutions 
and  the  effectiveness  of  their  system  of  freedoms, 
and thanks to the firm belief that differences must be 
resolved  in  accordance  with  rules  that  have  been  laid 
down.  In  recent  decades,  the  Spanish  people  have, 
with a constructive spirit, demonstrated that they have 
embraced the values of dialogue, commitment, sense of 
duty and solidarity. Those are the values that transform 
nations into models for freedom around the world and 
promote the progress and well-being of their citizens.
Spaniards  have  always  come  through  difficult 
times, even after being hit by a severe global economic 
crisis,  during  which  our  society  showed  an  enormous 
capacity  to  overcome  adversity.  We  must  continue 
to  drive  and  reinforce  the  recovery  on  a  firm,  broad-
based foundation, as well as to safeguard and improve 
the welfare state and a model of genuinely sustainable 
growth,  diversifying  our  foreign  presence  and,  above 
all, giving special attention to those who have suffered 
most  and  who  continue  to  suffer  the  repercussions  of 
the recession.
The Kingdom of Spain’s membership in the Security 
Council during the 2015-2016 biennium shows that our 
country is shouldering its responsibilities, meeting its 
commitments  and  participating  constructively  in  the 
quest for solutions to the problems we face today, such 
as the large movements of people that are a shocking 
sign of our times and are being given special attention 
during a week of ministerial meetings. Spain is on the 
homestretch  of  its  mandate  in  the  Security  Council 
and is working with determination, accountability and 
transparency, guided by the desire to make acceptable 
and  effective  commitments  to  prevent  conflicts  and 
resolve  existing  ones  We  have  spearheaded  efforts 
in  the  humanitarian  field  and  are  encouraging  the 
increased  participation  of  women  in  both  conflict 
prevention and peacebuilding, thereby combating gross 
violations and abuses of their freedom and dignity. In 
the immediate future and within the framework of an 
open and inclusive process, we will seek the adoption 
of a resolution to prevent non-State actors and terrorists 
from having access to weapons — especially those with 
mass destruction capabilities that increase their ability 
to  carry  out  assaults  or  attacks.  We  will  also  attempt 
to  move  forward  international  judicial  cooperation 
against terrorism and step up measures against sexual 
violence in conflict.
During this period in the Security Council, we have 
faced crises every day that stir our conscience and about 
which, despite much frustration, we refuse to become 
apathetic. Five and a half years of conflict in Syria have 
led to the death of more than 300,000 people, brought 
about  the  forced  disappearance  of  more  than  half  of 
Syria’s  people  and  divided  the  country,  leaving  it  at 
serious risk of irreversible fragmentation. The stability 
of  the  entire  region  has  been  threatened,  especially 
that  of  neighbouring  nations,  whose  generosity  in 
hosting  Syrian  refugees  should  be  acknowledged.  We 
regret  the  breach  of  the  ceasefire  agreement,  and  we 
express our sympathy for the victims, especially those 
who were humanitarian workers. We hope and call for 
another  cessation  of  hostilities.  In  that  context,  Spain 
is working to improve humanitarian assistance. There 
is no military solution to the conflict, and the political 
solution  must  preserve  the  unity  of  the  country  in  an 
inclusive, democratic framework.
Iraq  suffers  the  ravages  of  terrorism  at  the  hands 
of  Da’esh,  which  is  already  retreating  thanks  to  the 
perseverance of the Iraqi Government and the support 
of  an  international  coalition,  of  which  Spain  is  a 
member. I reiterate our full support for the Government 
of Iraq in its efforts to build a democratic country in 
which  members  of  all  religious  faiths  and  ethnicities 
can coexist and where human rights and the principle of 
territorial integrity are respected. Moreover, we are not 
giving up on any other seemingly deadlocked situation, 
whether in Yemen, Libya or Afghanistan.
Spain  supports  United  Nations  efforts  for  a  just, 
lasting and mutually acceptable political solution that 
would allow for the self-determination of the people of 
Western Sahara on terms compatible with the purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. In 
April, the Security Council renewed the mandate of the 
United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western 
Sahara for one year. In that regard, Spain welcomes the 
restoration  of  the  Mission’s  capabilities,  in  line  with 
Security Council resolution 2285 (2016). We encourage 
the  parties  to  resume  their  dialogue  with  a  view  to 
finally resolving that dispute.
Spain  has  consolidated  its  relations  with  the 
African  continent,  whose  strength  and  dynamism 
we  commend  and  to  which  we  are  giving  special  and 
preferential treatment. We are following with concern 
16-29415
7/30
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
the developments in the conflicts in South Sudan, Mali, 
Somalia  and  the  Central  African  Republic.  Spanish 
military  operations  have  been  deployed  in  those 
three  countries  in  the  framework  of  European  Union 
operations,  as  well  as  in  the  various  United  Nations 
missions throughout the world. 
In mentioning them here, I wish to pay tribute to 
all the Blue Helmets who are working to achieve peace 
in those missions, sometimes at the cost of their lives. 
Here, it would be only right to acknowledge the work of 
the  African  Union  and  subregional  organizations  that 
also make an extraordinary contribution to maintaining 
peace  on  the  continent  —  an  achievement  in  which 
Spain will continue to play an active part.
On  a  map  of  the  world  where  shadows  abound, 
hope also exists. Spain welcomed the agreement on the 
Iranian nuclear programme and also commends Iran’s 
verification  of  compliance  with  the  conditions  to  end 
the sanctions regime and open the door to a new trade 
regime with fixed restrictions. Our country is engaging 
in rigorous coordination efforts to assess trade requests.
Few  pieces  of  news  would  be  more  encouraging 
than  the  announcement  of  the  resumption  of  peace 
talks between Israel and Palestine. Spain supports the 
holding of an international conference to help encourage 
the negotiating parties in the course of this year, which 
marks 25 years since the Madrid Conference. The two-
State  solution,  with  mutually  agreed  upon  and  secure 
borders,  is  the  only  way  to  achieve  a  fair  and  lasting 
peace. Denial and confrontation between communities 
must  lead  the  way  to  peaceful  coexistence.  In  that 
context,  Spain  will  promote  initiatives  to  encourage 
harmony among the civil societies of both parties.
Two  and  a  half  years  ago,  on  our  continent, 
Ukraine’s  sovereignty,  independence  and  territorial 
integrity were violated. The European Union, Ukraine 
and Russia must be able to steer a course that will benefit 
us all in terms of European security and prosperity, on 
terms  that  respect  the  principles  of  international  law 
and the values   of democracy.
We  follow  with  great  concern  the  serious  and 
repeated  violations  of  the  non-proliferation  regime 
by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  We 
call on them to focus their efforts on a genuine search 
for  a  climate  of  understanding  and  dialogue  with  the 
international community.
As  for  the  European  Union,  the  great  project  of 
coexistence  is  now  at  a  major  crossroads.  As  Jean 
Monnet indicated, the European project is not a given; 
it  is  something  we  have  to  create  every  day,  on  the 
basis of a community of both interests and people. The 
European  Union  is  an  act  of  resolve,  of  trust  in  the 
ability  of  our  peoples  to  overcome  past  mistakes  and 
not  repeat  them.  Its  sustainability  and  strengthening 
are  key  to  peace  and  prosperity  on  our  continent  and 
are  enormously  positive  factors,  both  as  an  example 
and because of the deployment of capabilitities that can 
benefit  the  United  Nations  as  a  whole.  No  one  would 
gain if it were to become paralysed or fail.
We  Spaniards  are  proud  of  belonging  to  the 
European  Union,  from  which  we  have  obtained 
undeniable  benefits  and  to  which  we  have  made 
important  contributions, 
including  a  number  of 
sacrifices when these were necessary for the common 
good of Europe. In the current circumstances, we are 
ready  to  continue  in  the  vanguard  of  the  European 
Union’s growth in all areas.
As  Spain  has  always  done  from  this  rostrum,  let 
me  say  that  Gibraltar  is  the  only  remaining  colony 
in  Europe.  In  compliance  with  the  United  Nations 
mandate,  I  invite  the  United  Kingdom  to  put  an  end 
that  anachronism  by  an  agreed  solution  between  our 
two  countries  that  restores  the  territorial  integrity  of 
Spain and benefits the population of the colony and the 
Gibraltar region.
This year is the last in the mandate of Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon.  I  would  like  to  thank  him  on 
behalf  of  Spain  for  his  outstanding  service  and  to 
express my personal gratitude and appreciation. Spain 
welcomes the criteria of transparency and participation 
that  are  to  guide  us  in  selecting  his  successor.  I  trust 
that we will be able to make the best possible choice.
Spain  is  a  candidate  for  the  Human  Rights 
Council  for  the  2018-2020  period.  I  ask  for  the 
General  Assembly’s  support  for  its  candidature.  The 
promotion and defence of human rights are a hallmark 
of our foreign policy. We are particularly committed to 
promoting gender equality, the right to drinking water 
and sanitation, the rights of people with disabilities and 
the fight against racism, xenophobia and hate crimes.
The United Nations has in Spain a Member that is 
committed to the values embodied in this Organization. 
We  know  that  they  rely  on  us  to  deal  with  the  main 
challenges  of  today.  We  do  this  in  the  spirit  of  Don 
8/30 
16-29415
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.10
Quixote  and  the  loyalty  of  Sancho  Panza.  As  our 
universal classic tells us, “everyone is the architect of 
his own fortune”. We Spaniards want to be the architects 
of  a  United  Nations  where  fairness,  happiness,  the 
attainment  of  human  rights  and  respect  for  human 
dignity will prevail at all times.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
King of the Kingdom of Spain for the statement he has 
just made.
His  Majesty  Don  Felipe  VI,  King  of  the  Kingdom 
of  Spain,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Edgar Chagwa Lungu, President of 
the Republic of Zambia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Zambia.
Mr.  Edgar  Chagwa  Lungu,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zambia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Edgar 
Chagwa Lungu, President of the Republic of Zambia, 
and to invite him to address the General Assembly.
President Lungu: It is indeed a great honour and 
privilege  for  me  to  address  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventy-first  session.  May  I  join  others  in 
congratulating Mr. Thomson on his election to preside 
over  the  deliberations  of  this  session.  I  am  confident 
that, under his able leadership, the General Assembly 
will  successfully  address  the  pressing  issues  on  its 
current agenda. I am also confident that he will steer 
the Organization in the right direction and that we will 
have fruitful discussions on the well-considered theme 
of this session, entitled “The Sustainable Development 
Goals: a universal push to transform our world”.
Millennium Development Goals. He has distinguished 
himself  as  a  global  leader,  focused  on  fairness  and 
justice  for  all  nations.  Therefore,  as  he  winds  up  his 
onerous  responsibility  as  Secretary-General,  I  would 
like to convey to him, on behalf of the Zambian people, 
our  best  wishes  in  his  future  endeavours.  Well  done. 
And  we  thank  him  once  more  for  his  great  efforts  to 
improve the lot of humankind.
We are meeting during a special period, when our 
countries are embarking upon the implementation of the 
current global development blueprint, the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  Africa  appreciates  the 
important synergies of the 2030 Agenda and our own 
Africa  Union  Agenda  2063  —  the  Africa  We  Want, 
which  was  adopted  by  the  African  Union  Heads  of 
State and Government at the African Union Summit in 
January 2015. This convergence is a clear demonstration 
that our continental aspirations and those of the broader 
international  community  are  well  aligned  in  terms  of 
achieving a better world for all global citizens.
My  Government  accords 
the  highest  priority 
to  the  achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, and we believe that there can be no meaningful 
development without the elimination of poverty. In that 
context, special attention should be focused on the least 
developed  countries.  They  are  more  vulnerable  and 
need  more  support  to  strengthen  their  economies  in 
order to overcome the challenges they face.
In  our  quest  to  address  the  issues  of  poverty, 
unemployment, hunger and income inequality, Zambia 
has  taken  specific  measures  aimed  at  promoting 
economic  transformation.  Those  measures  include, 
but are not limited to, the development of value-chain 
clusters,  the  diversification  of  the  agriculture  sector, 
the  promotion  of  forestry  and  the  establishment  of 
multi-facility  economic  zones  and  industrial  parks. 
We  are  strongly  resolved  to  promote  industrialization 
through  the  agriculture  and  manufacturing  sectors  in 
order  to  speed  up  the  diversification  of  the  economy 
away from an over-dependency on mining.
Allow  me  to  also  convey  my  appreciation  to 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, who will be concluding his mandate 
as Secretary-General this year. Through his leadership, 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon has distinguished himself as a world 
leader  committed  to  tackling  key  global  challenges, 
such  as  reducing  poverty  and  addressing  climate 
change.  He  has  been  instrumental  in  ushering  in  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  the  successor  of  the 
In  that  regard,  my  Government  is  addressing  the 
challenges  faced  by  micro-,  small  and  medium-sized 
enterprises,  such  as  access  to  finance,  markets  and 
technology  and  the  enhancement  of  entrepreneurial 
skills.  These  deliberate  interventions  are  expected  to 
spur enterprise growth and job creation. The renewed 
focus on economic diversification is expected to further 
transform  our  country  from  dependency  on  primary 
16-29415
9/30
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
products  to  the  development  of  value-added  products 
through industrialization.
investment  in  alternative  sources  of  energy,  such  as 
solar, wind and geothermal, among others.
In  our  quest  to  foster  economic  growth,  my 
Government  has  developed 
its  seventh  five-year 
national  development  plan,  which  will  take  effect  in 
January 2017. The plan focuses on enhancing productive 
capacities in the agriculture sector and promoting rural 
development,  which  will  improve  the  livelihoods  and 
well-being of rural communities.
Like  most  developing  nations,  Zambia  is  today 
faced  with  the  challenges  of  population  growth,  and 
in  particular  the  need  to  harness  the  demographic 
dividend. There is a mismatch between the growth in 
the  youth  population  and  their  assimilation  into  the 
job  market.  That  is  why  the  Zambian  Government  is 
implementing  necessary  policies  focused  on  skills 
development, 
and 
infrastructure  development.  Zambia  is  ready  to  learn 
from,  and  share  with,  other  countries  best  practices 
to  address  the  challenges  faced  by  our  young  people. 
It  is  therefore  critical  that  youth  remain  actively 
engaged in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development.
entrepreneurship, 
education 
The  development  of  appropriate  infrastructure 
is  cardinal  in  fulfilling  Africa’s  desire  to  accelerate 
economic  growth  and  in  enhancing  the  continent’s 
competitiveness  on  the  global  market.  Africa  must 
expand  intra-African  trade  and  bolster  its  productive 
capacities.  In  line  with  this,  Zambia  has  embarked 
upon 
the 
construction  and  rehabilitation  of  roads,  railways, 
bridges and airports.
infrastructure  development, 
including 
As  the  current  Chair  of  the  Group  of  Landlocked 
Developing  Countries,  I  wish  to  reiterate  our  call  for 
the  international  community  to  remain  committed  to 
the guidelines of the Vienna Programme of Action for 
Landlocked Developing Countries for the Decade 2014-
2024,  which  aims  to  improve  the  living  conditions  of 
the half a billion people who live in the 32 landlocked 
developing countries.
It is evident that climate change has had an adverse 
impact  on  the  growth  of  our  economies.  Zambia  has 
been negatively affected by climate change, which has 
led to poor crop yields as a result of adverse weather 
patterns. We have suffered energy deficits as a result of 
low water levels in our hydropower dams, which account 
for more than 98 per cent of our power production. We 
are  therefore  pursuing  a  greater  energy  mix  through 
I also wish to join other countries that are calling 
for  the  provision  of  adequate  resources  to  make  fully 
operational  the  Green  Climate  Fund,  as  that  would 
greatly  contribute  to  climate-change  mitigation  and 
adaptation.  Zambia  applauds 
landmark  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change. It calls for fulfilment 
of the pledges made by parties at the Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change .
the 
Zambia  also  recognizes  the  importance  of  food 
security, and it therefore reaffirms its commitment to 
prioritizing a range of agricultural practices, including 
appropriate technologies that respond to climate change, 
such  as  conservation  agriculture  for  sustainable  and 
increased  food  production.  Zambia  supports  calls  for 
improved access to global and local agro-food markets, 
including transparent and open trading systems, as long 
as they do not negatively impact on local production. We 
therefore  invite  more  investments  in  agro-processing 
industries  to  add  value  to  our  products  and  increase 
employment opportunities.
Zambia  is  making  major  strides  in  addressing 
various challenges in the health sector. We want to ensure 
easy access to health services by all our citizens. We are 
making  steady  progress  in  addressing  communicable 
diseases  such  as  HIV  and  AIDS,  tuberculosis  and 
malaria.  We  are  decentralizing  primary  health-care 
services and improving the financing mechanisms for 
major communicable diseases to strengthen the health 
systems.
At  the  regional  level,  the  strengthening  of  the 
Southern  African  Development  Community  Strategy 
on  Pooled  Procurement  of  Essential  Medicines  and 
Health Commodities is among the positive interventions 
that  are  contributing  to  our  improved  health  systems. 
Current  interventions  in  relation  to  HIV  and  AIDS 
include the prevention of mother-to-child transmission 
and the treatment of all children who are HIV-positive. 
Our overall goal is to reach a zero-infection rate, in line 
with the global HIV and AIDS aspirations.
The Zambian Government has put in place policy 
measures to ensure that our people have access to sexual 
and reproductive health-care services, including family 
planning.  In  addition,  my  Government  has  increased 
the number of health centres, in both rural and urban 
areas, where these services are accessed.
10/30 
16-29415
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.10
Zambia  has  made  efforts  to  strengthen  the  legal 
framework for gender equity and equality by enacting 
the  Gender  Equity  and  Equality  Act  of  2015.  That 
progressive  law  has  put  into  effect  domestically 
the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of 
Discrimination  against  Women,  the  Protocol  to  the 
African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights on the 
Rights of Women in Africa, and the Southern African 
Development  Community  Protocol  on  Gender  and 
Development. At the continental level, in 2016 Zambia 
was among 11 countries presented with a gender award 
for the promotion of gender economic rights. In 2015, I 
was also humbled to receive the title of promoter of the 
He for She campaign from UN-Women in recognition 
of  the  role  that  Zambia  has  played  in  the  area  of 
women’s empowerment.
This  exemplifies  the  special  attention  and  efforts 
that  Zambia  has  continued  to  devote  to  issues  related 
to  the  empowerment  of  women  and  young  people  in 
order  to  promote  inclusive  and  sustainable  growth. 
The  measures  that  my  Government  has  taken  include 
promoting  women’s  participation 
in  commerce, 
trade  and  industry.  In  order  to  address  some  of  the 
challenges  that  women  face,  we  need  support  for  the 
creation  of  lines  of  credit  for  women’s  empowerment 
programmes, skills development, employment creation, 
poverty reduction, and technical assistance in fostering 
environmentally friendly agricultural methods.
Africa  needs  strong  institutions,  not  necessarily 
strong men. In that regard, Zambia is endeavouring to 
build a peaceful, just and inclusive society, particularly 
by  consolidating  democracy.  The 
importance  of 
democracy in our societies cannot be overemphasized. 
It  is  an  extremely  important  aspect  of  our  political 
systems that empowers people to freely participate in 
governance.  As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  Zambia  held 
elections on 11 August, and they did indeed represent 
another  opportunity  for  Zambia  to  demonstrate  its 
commitment  to  upholding  and  promoting  the  tenets 
of  democracy.  I  would  therefore  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to thank the international community for 
supporting us during the process. Equally, I would like 
to thank the Zambian people for their peaceful conduct 
during  the  elections.  I  want  to  assure  the  Assembly 
that my Government will use its mandate to continue 
protecting our peaceful democratic legacy and meeting 
the aspirations of our people.
My Government yearns for a community of nations 
that recognizes and respects the sovereign equality of 
all nations, in accordance with the Charter of the United 
Nations. As States Members of the United Nations, we 
all have positive roles to play in promoting peace and 
security in order to attain sustainable development for 
present  and  future  generations.  However,  Zambia  is 
concerned about the fact that the world today continues 
to witness unbridled acts of conflict and terrorism and 
rising  levels  of  poverty,  which  remain  overarching 
and  pressing  challenges  to  our  aspirations.  We  must 
therefore  eradicate  conflict  if  we  are  to  attain  the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
Zambia, as a member of the African Union Peace 
and Security Council, will dedicate its three-year term 
on that important decision-making body to promoting 
peace and security on the African continent. I therefore 
reiterate Zmbia’s continued commitment to the ongoing 
efforts for peace and conflict resolution of the Southern 
African  Development  Community,  the  International 
Conference on the Great Lakes Region and the African 
Union. We believe that the solution to African problems 
lies in Africa finding its own solutions. We nonetheless 
welcome and express our gratitude to the international 
community  for  its  continued  support  to  conflict 
resolution and peace processes on the continent.
While  Zambia  believes  that  the  United  Nations 
should  be  at  the  core  of  global  governance  and 
efforts  to  meet  the  challenges  of  collective  peace, 
security  and  development,  there  is  a  pressing  need 
to  reform  the  Organization  so  that  it  can  reflect  the 
contemporary realities of today’s global order. Zambia 
therefore  fully  supports 
the  Ezulwini  Consensus 
and  the  Sirte  Declaration,  representing  the  African 
common  position  on  reform  of  the  Security  Council. 
It  is  not  right  that  Africa  remains  the  only  continent 
without  permanent  representation  on  the  Security 
Council.  That  historical  injustice  must  be  corrected. 
We therefore urge Member States, including those that 
have  vested  interests  in  maintaining  the  status  quo, 
to  give  due  consideration  to  this  legitimate  demand 
from  Africa.  We  all  have  an  obligation  to  make  the 
Security Council more representative, democratic and 
accountable  if  the  Organization  is  going  to  demand 
democracy, representation and accountability from its 
Member States.
Zambia’s belief in the ideals and role of the Security 
Council remains unshaken, and it is in that regard that 
I  reiterate  our  steadfast  commitment  to  continuing 
to  contribute  to  the  operations  and  well-being  of  the 
United Nations.
16-29415
11/30
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Zambia for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Edgar  Chagwa  Lungu,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zambia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Juan Carlos Varela Rodríguez, 
President of the Republic of Panama
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Panama.
Mr. Juan Carlos Varela Rodríguez, President of the 
Republic of Panama, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Juan 
Carlos Varela Rodríguez, President of the Republic of 
Panama, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Varela  Rodríguez  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
On  behalf  of  the  people  of  Panama,  to  whom  I  send 
a  warm  embrace  from  this  rostrum,  I  am  pleased 
to  participate  in  the  general  debate  of  the  General 
Assembly in order to share my thoughts on the progress 
and challenges that lie ahead for my country, the region 
and the world as they work to ensure peace, welfare and 
prosperity for our peoples.
I would like to begin by recognizing the Secretary-
General for his outstanding work at the United Nations 
over  the  past  10  years,  in  which  we  have  achieved 
historic  agreements  aimed  at  benefiting  both  present 
and future generations of humankind.
Panama  is  a  country  of  dialogue  and  discussion, 
a  multi-ethnic,  multicultural,  peace-loving  nation, 
where people from all over the world who have found 
a new home on our land live and cooperate peacefully. 
Our  motto —  “Panama,  bridge  of  the  world,  heart  of 
the universe” — is growing ever stronger, and we are 
making progress under a Government committed to the 
democratic system, called to fulfil the role that stems 
from our geographical position.
Today I am pleased to inform the Assembly that on 
26 June, we succeeded in completing the expansion of 
the Panama Canal, through which more than 120 New 
Panamax ships, capable of carrying cargoes three times 
larger  than  previously,  have  already  travelled.  The 
expansion,  which  was  done  mainly  with  Panamanian 
labour, has filled our nation with rightful pride and joy. 
With  that  major  step,  we  Panamanians  have  fulfilled 
our commitment to continuing to bring the world closer 
together, facilitate global trade and put our country at 
the  service  of  the  international  community.  With  the 
expansion  finished,  we  are  now  preparing  to  move 
forward  with  studies  that  will  enable  us  to  increase 
the water-retention capacity of the Canal watershed in 
order  to  ensure  a  sufficient  supply  of  drinking  water 
to our major cities and uninterrupted operation of the 
inter-oceanic route. I would like to take this opportunity 
to  invite  the  international  community  to  visit  our 
country and appreciate this masterpiece of engineering.
In  Panama,  we  are  working  for  political  reform 
that  gives  democracy  stability  by  making  sure  that  it 
is  always  based  on  service  to  others.  Thanks  to  the 
contributions of the expanded Canal, and of an honest 
Government committed to transparency and the efficient 
management of public funds, Panama is maintaining its 
economic  growth  and  making  rapid  progress  towards 
meeting the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
strategic  plan 
is  aligned  with  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  backed  by  an  aggressive  public 
investment  plan,  totalling  $19  billion,  designed  to 
provide all Panamanians with access to potable water, 
basic  sanitation,  decent  housing  and  efficient,  high-
quality  health,  education,  security  and 
transport 
services.  With  the  aim  of  eradicating  poverty  and 
inequality,  we  have  strengthened  and  expanded  the 
coverage  of  our  social  support  system  programmes, 
which now reach 20 per cent of the population. In the 
area of public health, we have completed the first phase 
of our national dialogue for effective coordination of the 
health  system.  We  have  conducted  mass  vaccinations 
following an outbreak of the H1N1 virus in the region, 
and  through  our  first  national  census  on  preventive 
health we have done free clinical evaluations of more 
than 80,000 people over the age of 40.
Our  Government’s  2014-2019 
As a country, we are making the biggest investment 
in basic sanitation and mass transit in Latin America, 
areas that account for about 60 per cent of our budget 
for 2019. Together with our social housing and training 
programmes  for  young  people  at  risk,  those  projects 
are transforming our neighbourhoods and communities 
with  a  new  model  for  human  development,  with  a 
12/30 
16-29415
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.10
vision  by  the  State  taking  into  account  social  criteria 
and without partisan political distinctions. In the area 
of  education,  in  a  strategic  alliance  with  the  private 
sector,  we  are  allocating  the  funds  needed  to  develop 
an  educational  model  with  100  per  cent  high  school 
attendance,  an  extended  school  day  and  bilingual 
education,  alongside  the  construction  of  new,  modern 
higher technical education institutes that can enable our 
young people to get the well-paid jobs that our growing 
service economy is generating.
With the support of more than $3 billion in foreign 
investment in the energy sector, we are diversifying our 
energy  mix  with  renewable,  cleaner  types  of  energy. 
We  have  set  ourselves  the  goal  of  recovering  50  per 
cent  of  our  deforested  areas  in  the  next  20  years  and 
protecting our biodiversity and our oceans. By 2019, we 
will have built more than 300,000 basic sanitation units 
in  Panamanian  homes  and  housing  projects  for  more 
than  100,000  families  nationwide.  We  are  building 
10,000 new classrooms and renovating more than 3,000 
public  schools  across  the  country.  Right  now  we  are 
making  progress  in  adding  another  50  kilometres  to 
our mass transit metro system, which will benefit more 
than  1.5  million  people.  Our  plan  also  includes  long-
term  planning  for  the  construction  of  new  hospitals, 
roads,  water  treatment  plants,  aqueducts  and  sewage 
and  wastewater  treatment  plants.  All  these  efforts  in 
public  investments  are  being  implemented  with  full 
fiscal  responsibility,  an  added  value  of  an  honest  and 
transparent Government.
In  addition,  we  have  developed  a  set  of  major 
reforms and exemplary actions aimed at strengthening 
our  democracy  and  ensuring 
transparency  and 
accountability  within  a  framework  of  respect  for  the 
separation  of  powers  and  the  rule  of  law.  With  every 
passing day, our country comes closer to meeting the 
SDGs. The range of world-class international services 
that form the basis of our growing economy makes us 
ever  more  committed  to  being  responsible  citizens  of 
the world. As a serious, responsible country, Panama is 
willing to comply with the obligations of international 
law and to cooperate as a regional partner and strategic 
ally on trade and security issues.
With  the  same  determination  with  which  we 
committed  to  completing  the  expansion  of  the  Canal 
and  protecting  our  logistical  services,  ports  and 
airports  from  organized  crime,  we  in  Panama  have 
accepted  responsibility  for  upholding  our  financial 
system  and  moving  forward  with  the  exchange  of 
tax  information.  Our  Administration  has  enacted 
important legal and institutional reforms so that we can 
adopt  top  international  standards  in  order  to  comply 
with the recommendations of the Financial Action Task 
Force on preventing and combating money laundering, 
terrorist  financing  and  related  activities.  As  I  told 
the  Assembly  last  year  (see  A/70/PV.19),  some  weeks 
ago  we  reaffirmed  our  commitment  to  transparent 
financial  systems  and  fiscal  responsibility  with  our 
announcement  that  Panama  will  become  party  to  the 
Convention  on  Mutual  Administrative  Assistance 
in  Tax  Matters  of  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation and Development, and we are going to do 
that.  We  will  continue  to  work  with  the  international 
community to lead efforts to prevent financial systems 
from being used for purposes that do not represent the 
common good.
the  serious 
In  addressing 
threats  and  major 
challenges  that  are  the  purview  of  the  Assembly,  we 
must not forget that relations among States are global. 
Therefore  we  cannot  allow  differences  of  opinion 
among  two  or  more  countries  on  a  single  topic  to 
jeopardize the progress that can be achieved on other 
bilateral and multilateral issues of common interest and 
mutual benefit to our peoples.
The world witnessed significant progress made at 
the Paris summit. This week, Panama will deposit the 
instrument  of  ratification  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
climate change. Our country is moving aggressively to 
play its part. With the same resolve and commitment, 
I  call  on  States  Members  of  the  Organization  to  join 
forces  against  climate  change,  pool  their  efforts  and 
do  everything  in  their  power  to  find  comprehensive 
solutions to the issue of irregular migration flows, and 
to continue taking solid steps that will allow us to defeat 
terrorism and organized crime, inequality and poverty.
In recent years, we have witnessed the intensification 
of terrorist attacks that threaten the peace and security 
of humankind on a recurring basis. I wish to recognize 
the men and women fighting terrorism and to express 
our solidarity with the families of those killed in these 
attacks. I thank those who are deployed on humanitarian 
missions  around  the  world,  assisting  those  who  flee 
violence caused by terrorism and armed conflict.
Panama  energetically  condemns  the  recent  attack 
perpetrated against a humanitarian aid convoy in Syria. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  call  on  the  great  Powers  to 
maintain  their  diplomatic  channels  open  and  pursue 
16-29415
13/30
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
dialogue within the framework of the Security Council 
in order to achieve peace in Syria and the cessation of 
other armed conflicts in the world.
Yesterday, we Heads of State had the opportunity 
to  discuss  in  depth  the  issue  of  irregular  migration 
flows  in  our  region,  which  in  our  case  principally 
involves Haitian citizens who risk and even lose their 
lives  crossing  vast  distances,  rivers  and  inaccessible 
territories en route to northern countries in the hope of 
a better future. We stress our position that all migration 
policies and measures must be based on the protection 
of  the  inherent  human  right  to  life.  Convinced  that 
controlled  migration  contributes 
justice  and 
equity  in  the  world,  Panama  therefore  reaffirms  its 
commitment  to  providing  humanitarian  treatment  for 
migrants,  applying  strict  health  and  safety  controls.  I 
call on all countries of the hemisphere to endorse the 
successful completion of the electoral process in Haiti 
and  the  strengthening  of  its  democratic  institutions 
and economy.
to 
The  rapprochement  between  the  Governments 
of  Cuba  and  the  United  States  is  an  example  of  what 
diplomacy  can  achieve  in  order  to  contribute  to  the 
regulation of migration flows, and we expect this new 
dimension of the foreign policies of both countries to 
continue  developing  until  the  normalization  of  full 
diplomatic relations is achieved.
Panama supports the dialogue that is taking place 
in  Venezuela.  We  believe  that  the  inclusion  of  the 
Holy  See  as  a  mediator  of  the  process  would  be  very 
positive, and we reiterate our position that any end to 
tensions  between  the  political  forces  of  that  brotherly 
nation  must  be  achieved  through  democratic  means 
and dialogue in order for social peace and respect for 
human rights to prevail.
On  26  September,  we  shall  accompany 
the 
Government  of  Colombia  in  the  signing  of  the  Final 
Peace  Agreement  in  that  brotherly  nation,  which  we 
commend and fully support. Our presence at that historic 
event  will  not  be  only  to  support  the  Agreement,  but 
also  to  honour  the  memory  of  thousands  of  members 
of the Colombian public forces who have died and the 
thousands of innocent lives lost throughout the conflict.
We  congratulate  the  Government  of  Colombia 
and  President  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón  for  his 
determination  in  the  pursuit  of  peace,  and  we  call  on 
the demobilizing rebel groups to fulfil their obligations, 
as laid out in the Agreement, in order to consolidate a 
this  great  step  forward, 
therefore  continue 
Despite 
threatened  by 
peace that is so desired and deserved by the Colombian 
nation. In this context, I acknowledge the Secretariat for 
its decision to become actively involved in supporting 
the peace process through to its successful completion.
the  region 
increased  drug  production  and 
is 
trafficking.  Panama  will 
to 
strengthen its capabilities and professionalize its public 
forces  in  order  to  protect  our  homeland  and  support 
the  countries  of  our  continent  in  the  front-line  fight 
against drug trafficking. During the 27 months of our 
Government, we have achieved a significant reduction 
in crime of more than 40 per cent after having launched 
a successful security plan to prevent and combat crime 
in  Panama,  offering  more  opportunities  for  young 
people  at  risk  and  a  firm  hand  against  delinquency 
and organized crime. In accordance with our security 
strategy, we have managed to seize tons of drugs and 
dismantle networks linked to organized crime.
In the first years of our Government, we reached out 
to the countries of Asia. With the support of Singapore, 
we  are  developing  higher  technical  education  in  our 
country,  and  through  the  technical  assistance  and 
financing  of  the  Government  of  Japan,  Panama  will 
build a 27-kilometer monorail that will benefit hundreds 
of thousands of Panamanians in the west of our capital 
city.  With  Europe,  we  increased  our  air  connectivity 
with direct flights to five cities on that continent. With 
the United States, we have strengthened cooperation in 
security, and with the countries of our Latin American 
region  we  have  adopted  migration  and  trade  policies 
that contribute to the development of economic relations 
and encourage integration.
Two  months  ago,  the  Holy  See  and  His  Holiness 
Pope Francis acknowledged our country’s commitment 
to  playing  an  active  role  in  strengthening  unity  and 
peace in the world and guiding young people so that they 
may  continue  advancing  along  the  path  of  education, 
work and progress. Panama has been chosen to host the 
next  World  Youth  Day  in  2019.  This  event  will  bring 
together  more  than  500,000  young  people  from  190 
countries  and  will  be  a  great  opportunity  to  sow  the 
seed of peace among young people in Central America, 
exchanging  violence,  mourning  and  pain  for  peace, 
faith  and  hope.  This  will  promote  and  consolidate 
family values, security and the common good.
In the globalized world in which we live, threatened 
by  armed  conflict,  terrorism,  organized  crime  and 
14/30 
16-29415
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.10
humanitarian crises, responsible countries represented 
in  the  Assembly  must  unite  to  confront  these  global 
threats and strengthen the United Nations system. Our 
canal  has  expanded,  as  have  our  ports  and  airports. 
In this way, Panama is each day more prepared to be 
the  great  connection.  Yet  what  is  most  important  for 
me  as  President  is  that  the  Government  I  lead  should 
prepare  us  in  such  a  way  that  this  connection  is 
more  than  merely  logistical,  and  encompasses  values 
and  principles  that  strengthen  governability  in  all 
nations  and  guarantee  social  peace  in  the  world.   My 
Government  is  committed  to  its  country  and  to  its 
people, and my nation is committed to placing its riches, 
capabilities and geographical position at the service of 
all the world’s inhabitants. This is Panama — the route 
that unites the world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Panama for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Juan  Carlos  Varela  Rodríguez,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Panama,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, 
President of the Republic of Costa Rica
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Costa Rica.
Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, President of the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Luis 
Guillermo  Solís  Rivera,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Costa Rica, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Solís Rivera (spoke in Spanish): Costa 
Rica congratulates Mr. Thomson on his election as leader 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  welcomes  the  priorities 
that he has set for his term of office. The President can 
count  on  our  full  support  for  their  implementation. 
Costa  Rica  also  thanks  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
leadership  and,  in  particular,  his  contribution  to  the 
cause of peace and sustainable development.
We are coming to the end of 2016, having achieved 
little progress in addressing the crisis of refugees and 
migrants — the worst such crisis since the Second World 
War.  Costa  Rica  reiterates  the  urgency  of  providing 
assistance and the need to ensure the protection of and 
respect for the human rights of people who have been 
forced  to  leave  their  homes  in  search  of  safe  havens 
for themselves and their families, as a result of armed 
conflict,  violence,  natural  disasters  or  the  effects  of 
climate  change  that  threaten  their  access  to  the  most 
basic  means  of  survival.  We  are  failing  to  fulfil  our 
commitment to leave no one behind.
Mass  media  and  the  international  community 
have paid little attention to the tragedy of thousands of 
migrants travelling through Latin America from south 
to north. For Costa Rica, from April to September alone 
9,487 irregular migrants have crossed our borders, and 
we have granted refugee status to a total of 215 people 
during  the  first  half  of  2016  alone.  Our  country  has 
been a crossroads for thousands of migrants: Cubans, 
Haitians, Central Americans, Asians and Africans.
Clearly, 
the  problem 
is  global  and  requires 
joint  solutions,  solidarity,  shared  responsibility  and 
comprehensive  approaches.  With  regard  to  migration 
and  refugee  crises,  we  must  not  consider  only  large 
movements,  as  these  only  deal  with  very  specific 
experiences,  and  leave  out  any  discussion  on  the 
constant  flow  of  migration  throughout  the  rest  of 
the  world.  Such  movement  takes  place  outside  of  the 
confines of the law. It is a phenomenon that is fuelled by 
inequality, poverty and structural causes resulting from 
conflict and is fostered by the activities of international 
organized crime networks.
As a country of origin, transit and destination for 
migrants, Costa Rica has criminalized their trafficking 
under  the  law  against  trafficking  in  persons  and 
smuggling  of  migrants  adopted  in  2012.  That  legal 
framework also guides the design and implementation 
of our national policy to address the crime of migrant 
smuggling  from  a  gender  perspective.  The  policy  is 
based on the care and protection of victims, prevention, 
law  enforcement,  information  gathering,  analysis  and 
research, and institutional coordination.
In  our  experience,  faced  with  flows  of  migrants 
and the need for humanitarian aid, we must highlight 
the ongoing role played by civil society organizations 
as  a  support  network  for  migrants  and  their  families 
on the move, in addition to their enormous capacity to 
document the situation on the ground and see to and deal 
with violations of human rights of smuggled migrants. 
16-29415
15/30
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
Communities that have welcomed these migrants have 
shown their profound solidarity with those in need. 
The  complex  situation  concerning  the  wave  of 
migrants  will  only  be  exacerbated  by  the  effects  of 
climate  change.  Floods,  droughts  and  the  rise  in  sea 
level will force people to pick up and move within their 
country and abroad.
Such  challenges  call  on  us  to  virtuously  manage 
the  entire  ecosystem  of  human  mobility  through 
a  dialogue  on  processes,  actors,  mechanisms  and 
organizations.  Resources  must  be  efficiently  used, 
and 
there  must  be  better  coordination  between 
humanitarian  and  development  actors.  That  does  not 
mean that development resources must be redirected to 
humanitarian  assistance.  That  would  create  a  vicious 
circle, thereby neglecting investment in the root causes 
of such movements.
We will not tire of repeating and insisting on the 
need  to  address  the  specific  impacts  that  migration 
has on women and the need to adapt public policies to 
address those particularities. We will continue to raise 
our voice to call for action to combat gender-based and 
sexual violence.
If we are feigning loyalty to laws and institutions, 
we had better stop. If we believe that humankind can 
survive  by  remaining  on  this  path  and  adhering  to 
pretences as usual, we will only be selfishly and short-
sightedly digging our own grave. We should remember 
that it is not because of mere altruism but the starkest 
realities that we have chosen to abide by a global order, 
subject to institutions and universal principles of self-
regulation.  The  escalation  of  tensions,  conflicts  and 
the  use  of  force  suit  no  one  but  a  few  merchants  of 
suffering and death. The national interest of all States 
is to strengthen the international system and the United 
Nations, which is at the centre of that effort.
The  philosopher  and  Nobel  Peace  Prize  laureate 
Albert Schweitzer said,
“To  the  question  whether  I  am  a  pessimist  or  an 
optimist, I answer that my knowledge is pessimistic, 
but my willing and hoping are optimistic”.
Today there are realities and actions that fill me with 
optimism because change is taking place in the world. 
I wish to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
invitation to be co-facilitator, along with my colleague 
Simona Scarpaleggia, Chief Executive Officer of IKEA 
Switzerland,  of  the  High-Level  Panel  on  Women’s 
Economic Empowerment. The hard work of the Panel 
has  already  resulted  constructively  in  a  preliminary 
report. I want to share several of its conclusions with 
the Assembly. 
       Simona Scarpaleggia said at the Panel,
“I  firmly  believe  that  there  is  huge  potential 
that  could  be  unlocked  simply  by  valuing  and 
empowering  women.  The  energy,  the  power  and 
creativity of women are badly needed — not only 
to make this world a better place, but to enable it to 
survive in the years to come.”
The  lessons  are  many,  but  first  it  is  necessary  to 
recall some facts, some of which might seem obvious and 
others that might surprise. The vast majority of women 
in the world work. They work in the informal, public and 
private sectors as business women, domestic workers, 
and  unremunerated  workers.  But  women  have  half  as 
many  possibilities  as  men  in  securing  full-time  paid 
work. It is estimated that there are 1.27 billion women 
worldwide in paid jobs compared with 2 billion men. We 
are talking about a difference of more than 700 million 
women who do not have the same opportunities as men. 
Women undertake unpaid work three times as often as 
men and handle most of the caregiving work. The deep 
and unfortunate impact of this situation is reflected in 
the fact that it is estimated that the value of unpaid care 
work is equivalent to $10 billion, or 13 per cent of world 
gross domestic product.
and 
the  multiple  relationships 
The 
Sustainable  Development  Goals 
are 
interdependent.  The  Panel 
interconnected 
that  exist 
emphasized 
between  the  targets  set  out  in  Goal  5,  on  gender 
equality and the empowerment of women, and Goal 8, 
to promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, 
employment and decent work for all, men and women 
alike.  The  relationship  between  this  debate  and  Goal 
10 is clear: the goal is to reduce inequality within and 
among  countries.  I  am  convinced  that  the  economic 
empowerment of women should be viewed not only as 
a goal in itself but as a means for the implementation of 
the other targets and Goals set out in the 2030 Agenda.
The  Panel  proposes  seven  principles  and  seven 
guiding actions. As basic principles, we assume that no 
woman should be left behind and that nothing should 
be done for women without the participation of women, 
and that we should focus equally on rights and profits. 
Empowerment  is  not  only  the  right  thing  to  do;  it  is 
the intelligent road map towards human development, 
16/30 
16-29415
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.10
growth and business promotion. We must also address 
the root causes of economic gender inequality based on 
gender  inequalities  in  society,  respect  internationally 
agreed  standards,  and,  finally,  recognize  the  need 
to  work  in  partnerships,  with  global  compliance  in 
all countries.
To achieve the global empowerment of women, the 
Panel recommends the following measures.
First, we must end stereotypes and transform and 
challenge the rules that limit women’s access to work 
or  devalue  their  work.  Changing  those  rules  must 
be  a  priority  in  order  to  expand  women’s  economic 
opportunities within the framework of the 2030 Agenda.
We  must  level  the  playing  field  for  women, 
guarantee  employment  and  social  protection,  and 
reform  discriminatory  laws  and  regulations.  A  total 
of 155 countries worldwide have at least one law that 
prevents women from becoming involved in economic 
activities.  This  must  be  changed;  it  would  contribute 
greatly to economic growth, and it is a simple step that 
all Governments can take.
Finally, as a social co-responsibility, we must invest 
in care, recognizing, reducing and redistributing unpaid 
work  in  this  field.  We  must  ensure  decent  working 
conditions  for  domestic  workers.  One  of  the  first 
steps  to  achieve  this  is  to  ratify  International  Labour 
Organization  (ILO)  Convention  No.  189.  I  urge  those 
countries that have not yet done so to take that step.
We  must  guarantee  the  an  adequate  distribution 
of  digital,  financial  and  physical  goods.  This  is  also 
important.  We  need  Governments,  the  private  sector 
and  civil  society  to  take  action  so  as  to  ensure  that 
trends  and  innovations  in  digital  technologies  and 
finance, as well as legal reforms in the field of tenancy 
and land ownership, expand women’s opportunities.
We  must  change  our  culture  and  the  way  we  do 
business in order to create opportunities for women. As 
a minimum, businesses should follow ILO conventions 
along  with  national 
legislation  regarding  gender 
equality in order to eliminate discriminatory practices.
We  must  create  opportunities,  with  Governments 
improving  practices  in  the  public  sector  both  as  an 
employer and as a supplier of goods and services. We 
must establish, implement and promote public policies 
that benefit women living in poverty and vulnerability 
as well as macroeconomic policies that guarantee their 
rights and generate sustainable and inclusive work.
Women’s  voices  must  be  heard,  encouraging  a 
greater  participation  in  leadership  and  business  and 
political  decision-making  posts.  In  order  to  translate 
such  measures  into  reality,  it  is  imperative  that  we 
improve  data  collection  relating  to  the  economic 
empowerment  of  women.  The  ILO,  along  with  many 
other United Nations agencies, development banks and 
various countries and organizations, has been making 
considerable  efforts  to  create  new  methodologies  and 
measurements  with  respect  to  the  widest  variety  of 
variables  pertaining  to  the  economic  empowerment 
of women.
The  Heads  of  State  and  Government  who  are 
listening  today  should  know  that  the  most  important 
aspect of the work of the Panel, which is scheduled to 
issue  a  second  report  next  year,  relates  to  everything 
that  we  are  able  to  accomplish  in  our  own  countries 
as  a  result  of  its  findings,  good  practices,  principles 
and recommendations. We invite those States capable 
of  implementing  the  Panel’s  recommendations  to  do 
so  and  to  become  laboratories  instrumental  in  their 
implementation.  A  call  to  action  is  imperative.  There 
must be greater commitment on the part of all to achieve 
this objective.
We  know  that  the  world  has  many  crises  to  deal 
with, but we can and must promote and ensure changes 
that will transform the lives of millions of women and 
girls. This is an imperative call to action. I am certain 
that  this  will  benefit  not  only  women,  but  also  our 
societies at large. This is a step we must take in order 
to  achieve  equality  in  other  aspects  of  relationships 
between men and women. This is the best path for our 
planet; together, humankind can effectively adopt new 
models  of  sustainable  development  that  allow  us  to 
survive as a species.
It  fills  us  with  immense  pride  that  the  Paris 
Agreement  negotiations  were  led  by  a  Costa  Rican 
woman,  Christiana  Figueres,  Executive  Secretary  of 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change  until  early  July,  a  woman  with  immense 
diplomatic  capabilities  who  showed  us  that  when  we 
work  together,  with  commitment  and  a  focus  on  the 
common good, we can restore hope and work towards 
a better world.
The  Paris  Agreement  must  enter 
into  force 
immediately,  and  we  have  an  obligation  to  increase 
our  ambitions  with  time.  That  is  why  Costa  Rica  has 
made  every  effort  to  complete  its  domestic  approval 
16-29415
17/30
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
process and will soon join the list of countries that have 
ratified it.
We  therefore  aspire  to  become  a  laboratory  for 
the  deep  decarbonization  of  the  world  economy  and 
a  green  hub  for  management,  innovation  and  the 
transfer  of  knowledge,  with  early  action  built  upon 
existing  achievements.  With  our  planned  nationally 
determined  contribution,  we  will  work  to  achieve 
our  national  aspiration  to  steer  the  economy  towards 
carbon  neutrality  by  2021,  as  part  and  parcel  of  pre-
2020 voluntary actions, and we have strengthened our 
long-term commitment to the deep decarbonization of 
the economy. The compensatory effects of our forests 
are  accompanied  by  emissions  reductions  in  critical 
sectors  such  as  transport,  livestock  and  waste.  We 
have  set  an  absolute  emissions  limit  for  2030,  which 
is  equivalent  to  a  25  per  cent  reduction  in  emissions 
compared with 2012.
Our aspirations also include the promotion of our 
social  inclusion  and  development  policies  so  that  our 
focus can go beyond the traditional silo-based approach. 
We  are  moving  towards  an  integral  development 
model  based  on  multidimensional  benchmarks  that 
go  far  beyond  the  entry  requirement.  For  that  reason, 
on 9 September the heads of the three State branches 
and  representatives  of  local  governments,  the  private 
sector, social and religious organizations and academia 
gathered to sign the national pact to meet the Sustainable 
Development Goals.
Our  planet  needs  our  care,  and  this  care  must  be 
all-encompassing.  Costa  Rica  is  fully  committed  to 
processes  that,  within  the  framework  of  the  United 
Nations, seek to protect oceans and marine resources, 
in  particular 
the  elaboration  of  a  new 
international agreement for the protection of the more 
than 60 per cent of marine biodiversity that is located 
in international areas, in keeping with Goal 14 of the 
2030 Agenda.
through 
Costa Rica continues to be deeply shocked by the 
terrorist attacks that, unfortunately, as we know, occur 
somewhere in the world practically every week of the 
year. We would like once again to express our absolute, 
unequivocal condemnation of terrorism in every all its 
forms  and  manifestations,  no  matter  who  commits  it 
or where it happens or with whatever goal in mind, as 
well as to stress the need to bring to justice those who 
commit such acts. 
The  fight  against  terrorism  must  be  framed  in 
strict observance of international law, including human 
rights  law,  international  humanitarian  law  and  the 
international law on refugees. In that context, we think 
that this is the right time to make a respectful request 
to countries that have not yet done so to ratify the Arms 
Trade  Treaty  without  further  delay.  The  diversion  of 
arms to extremist groups could be substantially reduced 
if  more  States  were  to  implement  the  provisions  set 
forth in that multilateral, legally binding instrument.
Costa Rica has followed with concern the constant 
launches  of  missiles  and  the  carrying  out  of  nuclear 
exercises by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, 
the most recent one being on 9 September. In addition 
to voicing our strongest condemnation and rejection of 
such actions, which represent a serious threat to peace, 
stability  and  regional  and  international  security,  we 
must demand that North Korea cease such punishable 
acts,  which  unequivocally  violate  relevant  resolutions 
of the Security Council, including the most recent one 
on the subject, resolution 2270 (2016).
Costa Rica also wishes to stress the importance of 
fighting  impunity  for  criminal  atrocities.  Prosecution 
for such crimes must be promoted comprehensively and 
at the highest level. Costa Rica welcomes the initiatives 
aimed  at  promoting  a  code  of  conduct  restricting  the 
use  of  the  veto  in  the  Security  Council  in  cases  of 
outrageous  crimes.  Costa  Rica  reiterates  its  call  to 
Member States to adopt the code of conduct put forth 
by  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency 
Group.
Likewise, Costa Rica welcomes the efforts oriented 
towards  the  full  establishment  of  diplomatic  relations 
between the United States of America and Cuba, as well 
as  the  measures  announced  by  the  senior  authorities 
of  those  two  friendly  countries  concerning  political 
dialogue and openness. In that spirit, we reiterate our 
support  for  the  lifting  of  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  blockade  against  Cuba  in  accordance 
with the systematic, almost unanimous, demands of the 
international community to that end.
Costa  Rica  welcomes  the  signing  of  the  peace 
agreements in Colombia and the ceasefire declaration of 
last August. Not only does that bring an end to the oldest 
armed conflict in the region, but it also contributes to 
wholly  converting  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
into a region of peace. We trust that the agreement will 
allow  the  Government  and  our  Colombian  brothers 
18/30 
16-29415
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.10
and  sisters  to  plan  their  future  development  along  a 
peaceful path.
We  would  like  to  stress  that  it  is  the  General 
Assembly that has the power to define the term of office 
of the next Secretary-General through the appointment 
resolution. We will continue to advocate that the term be 
a single period of seven years without the possibility of 
re-election, as we are convinced that that would facilitate 
the  exercise  of  leadership  free  from  the  coordination 
required to set in motion a selection process designed 
to secure a second term. It is fundamental to Costa Rica 
that there be a democratization of the selection process 
for  the  Secretary-General.  Therefore,  the  Security 
Council’s  endorsement  of  more  than  one  candidate 
increases  the  inclusiveness,  transparency  and,  most 
important,  the  legitimacy  of  the  process  by  requiring 
a vote.
We have advocated, and will continue to advocate, 
that a woman should occupy the position of Secretary-
General for the first time in history. We have reached 
a new milestone in history by having six extraordinary 
women,  including  a  Costa  Rican,  as  candidates  for 
the position of Secretary-General. The transformation 
demanded  by  people  all  over  the  world  requires  new 
sensibilities and forms of exercising leadership.
My goal is that my daughter Inés, who is 10 years 
old now, will be able to tell her descendants of a strange 
former era, when women did not earn as much as men 
for  the  same  work,  when  they  were  not  equal  owners 
of the means of production, when the care of children 
was a chore largely reserved for women and when their 
sexual  and  reproductive  rights  were  not  safeguarded. 
That strange era is the one that we must leave behind, 
in  the  same  way  that  we  slowly  leave  behind  other 
scourges  such  as  slavery,  discrimination  in  any  of  its 
many forms, and consumption and wars as the basis for 
our  economy,  which  are  destroying  our  shared  home, 
Mother Earth.
We can overcome hate, violence and inequality. We 
can achieve peace. We can trace the path to development 
and human progress. We just need to believe that it is 
possible, and that making it happen is in our hands.
Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, President of the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Tsakhia Elbegdorj, 
President of Mongolia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President 
of Mongolia.
Mr. Tsakhia Elbegdorj, President of Mongolia, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Tsakhia Elbegdorj, President of Mongolia, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Elbegdorj: At the outset, I wish to join 
others in extending our heartfelt congratulations to the 
President  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-first session. Mongolia pledges 
its full support to the President.
It is my great honour to address this body for the 
seventh time on behalf of the Mongolian people. I am 
the youngest of eight sons. For generations, my family 
lived as nomadic herdsmen in the western highlands of 
my country. My mother and father never dreamed that, 
one day, their youngest son would be speaking from this 
respected rostrum to the largest assembly in the world.
I am proud to serve for my country in accordance 
with the free will of our people. Mongolia is governed 
by democratic rules. The President has a constitutional 
term limit. Therefore, my mandate ends next year. This 
is my last address as the President of Mongolia to the 
General Assembly.
But  the  people  of  Mongolia  will  continue  to  be 
citizens  of  the  global  community  together  with  all 
nations. I am proud that my country is a good friend and 
partner of every State Member of the United Nations. I 
am confident that our next President will be welcomed 
by  everyone  here  and  will  be  given  the  same  respect 
and the same spirit of cooperation that I have enjoyed 
during these years.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Costa Rica for the statement he has 
just made.
Achieving sustainable development is essential. It 
is essential because no one in the world should be left 
behind and be deprived of the right to development. We 
must work together towards a world where everybody 
16-29415
19/30
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
can  have  a  dignified  life,  free  from  poverty,  violence 
and  depression.  I  firmly  believe  that  justice,  stability 
and security cannot be ensured without the rule of law 
and  respect  for  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms 
of  all.  Those  basic  principles  must  be  respected  and 
protected in every country and by all Governments.
The  United  Nations  celebrated 
its  seventieth 
anniversary  at  a  time  of  turbulence.  Today,  we  are 
witnessing  many  conflicts  and 
terrorist  attacks, 
which have become almost daily news headlines. The 
world  is  facing  its  largest-ever  humanitarian  crisis, 
involving millions of people who have been displaced 
from their homes. The slowdown in global growth and 
the  rising  tensions  in  many  places  have  threatened 
further progress.
However, the intervening year has been a period of 
inspiring  collaboration  as  well.  In  some  places,  long-
fought  wars  have  come  to  an  end.  Peace  agreements 
have  been  reached.  The  development  of  dangerous 
weapons has been restrained. The power of diplomacy 
has prevailed. Last year, all together, we launched the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  which 
includes  a  plan  of  action  for  people,  the  planet  and 
prosperity.  In  December  in  Paris,  the  world  turned  a 
new page in its efforts to combat climate change. 
As a global community, we are all following a new 
road map on our next 15-year journey. The 2030 Agenda 
and  the  Paris  Agreement  provide  clear  guidelines  for 
achieving what we have promised to do. We must now 
act  together  as  we  take  responsibility  for  our  people. 
We must now strengthen our partnership so as to save 
the planet. We now need the resources to put the action 
plan to work.
Mongolia  will  ensure  that  no  one  is  left  behind 
by  reaching  out  first  to  the  most  vulnerable.  The 
principles and policies of the 2030 Agenda have been 
translated  into  our  national  strategy.  The  Mongolia 
2030 Sustainable Development Vision of is under way. 
Our  agenda  calls  for  the  establishment  of  a  diverse 
and  inclusive  economic  structure  aimed  at  increasing 
decent  jobs,  providing  opportunities  and  generating 
income. Our goal is to improve the quality of life and 
ensure environmental sustainability. Equally essential 
is  cooperation  between  and  among  Governments, 
international  development  communities,  the  private 
sector and civil-society institutions.
From  our  past  experience  in  implementing  the 
Millennium Development Goals at the national level, we 
learned that regular follow-up and review mechanisms 
will  be  essential 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). Therefore, accountability 
and the quality of governance will eventually define the 
success of the SDGs.
to  achieving 
Tomorrow, we will mark that landmark achievement 
on  our  collective  journey  to  counter  climate  change. 
Let me take this opportunity to congratulate the States 
parties that have formally ratified the Paris Agreement. 
The  people  of  Mongolia  have  joined  the  world  in  its 
fight  to  mitigate  climate  change.  We  have  concluded 
our national legislative process and recently ratified the 
Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement represents our 
common success, the result of our hard work. It is also 
a great inspiration for all of us. It is our bold vision and 
promise to our children to save the world for them. And 
we must deliver on that promise.
Mongolia is one of smallest carbon emitters in the 
world,  yet  it  suffers  disproportionately  from  climate 
change.  Desertification,  deforestation  and  the  loss  of 
biodiversity  have  severely  affected  livelihoods  in  our 
traditional  nomadic  culture,  and  they  spur  further 
environmental degradation.
Mongolia is holding up its end of the bargain. But 
the  promised  international  cooperation  and  support 
are  still  lacking.  The  benefits  of  the  green  funds  and 
carbon  credits  are  sorely  missed  in  Mongolia  and 
many  developed  countries  alike.  We  urge  multilateral 
institutions to take the lead in those important efforts. 
We  have  one  home,  one  world  for  all  of  us  and  one 
universal goal, namely, to save our home. Today is our 
time to act. We must not miss that chance, as we must 
not miss our future.
To that end we must work for equality, inclusiveness 
and  accountability  in  our  Governments  and  societies. 
Our  agreed  Agenda  calls  for  inclusive  societies  and 
accountable  institutions.  People  have  called  for  good 
governance and the rule of law through the 2030 Agenda. 
They  have  asked  for  transparency  and  accountability 
in  Governments’  plans  and  development  efforts.  We 
must be accountable in our actions and responsibilities. 
Accountability  is  a  benchmark  requirement  for  good 
governance.  Good  governance  is  key  to  global  peace 
and  prosperity.  We  therefore  promote  accountability 
and  good  governance  in  our  society.  A  national  law 
on  public  hearings  and  a  policy  on  supporting  public 
participation are being implemented in Mongolia.
20/30 
16-29415
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.10
The Agenda for Sustainable Development demands 
action  against  corruption.  It  requires  that  institutions 
function in a transparent and efficient way, based on the 
rule of law. Basic services must therefore be delivered 
without  discrimination  or  corruption.  Investors  can 
count  on  stability  and  businesses  on  predictability, 
with clear legal frameworks, decent jobs and recourse 
to independent courts. It means that natural resources 
are harnessed to benefit the many, not the few, and the 
environmental impact is measured and controlled.
Development 
and 
are 
accountability 
about 
democracy.  We  should  never  take  democracy  for 
granted.  Neither  should  we  worship  it.  It  must  be 
nurtured and strengthened on a daily basis. It is our way 
of living and our state of mind. A democratic society is 
sustainable because its aim is the highest development 
of every one of its members.
Therefore, our common goal as leaders should be to 
provide an environment where democratic institutions 
can thrive — the rule of law, human rights, democratic 
governance  and  free  and  fair  elections.  And  we  must 
enforce  accountability.  The  people  will  do  the  rest  in 
a  democracy.  For  only  in  a  democracy  will  each  and 
every  person  be  provided  with  opportunities  for  self-
development and self-realization.
Over the past 26 years, Mongolia has accumulated 
experience  as  a  stable  and  peaceful  democracy.  It 
was  tested  again  in  the  most  recent  parliamentary 
elections, held on 29 June. The elections were open and 
transparent. The newly formed Parliament and Cabinet 
are  now  responsible  for  the  people  of  Mongolia.  The 
people  vested  them  with  full  power  to  work  hard 
for them.
and  promoting 
Over  the  past  two  decades,  Mongolia  has  been 
supporting 
stronger  democratic 
institutions  and  sustainable,  effective  and  legitimate 
democracy.  We  have  been  sharing  our  experiences 
and lessons learned with our fellow nations. We have 
been  happy  to  learn  that  our  lessons  have  helped 
other countries.
From this podium, I wish to sincerely congratulate 
the people of both Kyrgyzstan and Myanmar for their 
successful  elections  held  last  year  and  to  wish  them 
sustained prosperity.
As one of the Chairs of the International Institute 
for  Democracy  and  Electoral  Assistance  (IDEA), 
Mongolia hosted the IDEA Annual Democracy Forum 
last  month.  At  this  year’s  Forum,  the  focus  was  on 
learning  from  democratic  transitions.  Experts  from 
many countries with various democracy models shared 
their experiences relating to improving the modalities 
of  elections,  accountability  and  transparency.  It  was 
truly  a  knowledge-sharing  and  inspiring  exercise. 
Mongolia’s  International  Cooperation  Fund,  to  which 
we  are  committed,  will  expand  its  activities  to  work 
together with emerging democracies.
Mongolia  holds  dear  human  rights  and  liberties. 
These  days  we  talk  all  too  often  about  human  rights 
and  the  rule  of  law.  Whether  we  uphold  such  values 
is  tested  by  actual  practice  and  implementation.  The 
entire  2030  Agenda  is  centred  on  respect  for  human 
rights and human dignity. We, the Member States, have 
the primary responsibility for upholding human rights. 
In  order  to  assume  its  responsibilities,  Mongolia  has 
started a new phase of legal reform aimed at ensuring 
the full protection of human rights, including the right 
to justice.
Mongolia has abolished the death penalty. I believe 
that the death penalty is neither acceptable nor justifiable 
under  any  circumstances.  I  believe  that  one  day  our 
loving  human  family  will  become  free  of  the  death 
penalty. I know it is not easy to exercise leadership on 
that tough issue. Nevertheless, as a democratic society 
in the East, Mongolia will spare no effort to promote 
human rights and human dignity.
As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Mongolia will work against any form of discrimination. 
Ten  years  ago,  we,  the  Member  States,  created  the 
Human  Rights  Council  to  put  the  human  rights  pillar 
back at the centre of the United Nations system. It was 
created  to  provide  a  space  for  open  dialogue  so  as  to 
respond to human rights emergencies. As we know all 
too  well,  human  rights  are,  sadly,  threatened  around 
the world. Many countries fail to uphold human rights 
while countering terrorism. The Human Rights Council 
must act effectively to create a global culture based on 
respect for human rights and dignity for all.
The spread of terrorism all over the world is a grave 
concern for us. Terrorism is a common challenge for all 
of humankind. It is a common threat to national security, 
as  well  as  to  the  global  order.  We  all  witness,  almost 
every day, humanitarian disasters and massive human 
rights  violations.  Mongolia  firmly  opposes  all  forms 
of terrorism and violence. There is no justification for 
terrorism  of  any  kind.  The  international  community 
16-29415
21/30
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
must be united to defeat and counter terrorism. At the 
same time, we should also do all we can to prevent that 
form of violent extremism.
In  July  this  year,  Mongolia  successfully  hosted 
the eleventh Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM) Summit to 
commemorate the twentieth anniversary of that forum. 
I take this opportunity to express my heartfelt gratitude 
to  the  Heads  of  State  and  Government  and  leaders 
of  the  ASEM  partner  organizations  for  attending  the 
Summit and contributing to its success. I am proud to 
report to the General Assembly that the leaders of Asia 
and Europe came together to chart out the future course 
of action for the next decade. We reaffirmed our strong 
determination to take joint actions to consolidate peace, 
security and stability. Asia and Europe stand united in 
our actions against terrorism, corruption and poverty. I 
firmly believe that ASEM multilateralism will advance 
global well-being and prosperity. Once again, I thank 
representatives for visiting my homeland for a once-in-
a-century event of global magnitude.
In the Ulaanbaatar Declaration, the leaders of Asia 
and Europe sent strong messages to the people of the 
world about how we will work together during the next 
decade.  We  are  united  in  contributing  to  sustained 
peace,  security,  stability  and  economic  recovery  and 
in responding to global and regional challenges in the 
twenty-first  century.  We  all  agreed  on  the  key  role 
that  the  United  Nations  should  play  in  maintaining 
international peace and security.
It  has  always  been  a  profound  delight  for  me,  as 
the Head of State of Mongolia, to report to the General 
Assembly on the successful service of Mongolian sons 
and  daughters  as  Blue  Helmets,  who  stand  guard  for 
global peace and stability. The United Nations is doing 
its utmost to protect civilians, end conflicts and create 
conditions for lasting peace. The security environment 
is far more complex and more dangerous than ever, and 
the services of United Nations peacekeepers have never 
been as much in demand as now.
The world is not yet free of wars, devastation and 
destitution, but we believe that there will come a day 
when child refugees will no longer be swept onto the 
shore by cold ocean tides, when children will no longer 
be orphaned in senseless violence and wars and when 
people will no longer be afraid to take peaceful strolls 
in the beautiful cities of Nice, Istanbul or Dhaka.
need  our  help  and  support,  and  we  are  proud  that 
Mongolian  peacekeepers,  together  with  fellow  Blue 
Helmets, continue to extend their helping hand to the 
people  of  South  Sudan.  We  honour  their  bravery  and 
dedication.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express my profound appreciation to the thousands of 
courageous  members  of  international  humanitarian 
organizations.  They  put  their  very  lives  at  risk  while 
saving  millions  from  certain  death  and  starvation. 
Once again, I congratulate them.
The  demand  for  mediation  and  support  and  good 
offices for humanitarian assistance has reached an all-
time high. Conflict situations must be resolved. My own 
region,  North-East  Asia,  is  home  to  many  unresolved 
issues. The last stronghold and division of the Cold War 
still persists on the Korean peninsula. Any development 
there will have a direct impact on regional and our own 
security and stability. Once again, we reiterate our firm 
position that the Korean peninsula should be nuclear-
weapon-free.
In  order  to  resolve  tensions  and  conflicts,  it 
is  crucial  to  eradicate  mistrust  among  the  nations 
concerned  and  to  hold  direct  talks  more  often.  The 
Ulaanbaatar  Dialogue  on  Northeast  Asian  Security  is 
called upon to do exactly that: to promote trust in the 
region,  to  facilitate  the  exchange of  ideas  and to  find 
solutions to common concerns. The task is complicated 
and  not  easy.  However,  every  Member  of  the  United 
Nations will strive for an appropriate solution.
In conclusion, allow me to express Mongolia’s full 
commitment to faithfully implementing both the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change. We must demonstrate 
to the world and to our nations that meaningful progress 
is  being  made  on  all  17  Sustainable  Development 
Goals.  We  reaffirm  our  firm  commitment  to  the 
multilateral system with the United Nations at its core. 
Let  us  therefore  work  together  for  the  progress  on 
global development for future generations. As always, 
Mongolia  will  play  its  part  for  the  cause  of  peace, 
freedom and justice.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of Mongolia for the statement he has just made.
South  Sudan  is  still  the  youngest  member  of  the 
international  community.  The  people  of  South  Sudan 
Mr. Tsakhia Elbegdorj, President of Mongolia, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
22/30 
16-29415
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.10
Address by Mr. Macky Sall, President of the 
Republic of Senegal
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Senegal.
Mr. Macky Sall, President of the Republic of Senegal, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Macky Sall, 
President of the Republic of Senegal, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Sall  (spoke  in  French):  The  delegation 
of Senegal wishes to thank the former President of the 
General  Assembly  for  his  efforts  during  the  previous 
session and wishes the current President every success 
in the carrying out of his mandate.
We are gathered here once again to breathe new life 
into the founding principles of the United Nations, to 
promote peace and progress and to cultivate the spirit 
of tolerance and mutual understanding among peoples. 
Nevertheless,  the  world  has  never  been  so  violent  or 
dangerous as it is now, as innocent people, whose only 
mistake was to be in the wrong place at the wrong time, 
are being killed without reason, leaving entire families 
plunged  into  grief  and  mourning.  No  cause,  certainly 
no  religious  cause,  can  justify  violence.  The  height 
of  cowardice  is  attacks  against  priests  and  imams, 
including at religious sites.
Senegal — a land of cultural and religious diversity, 
where  the  Muslim  95  per  cent  of  the  population  live 
in  harmony  with  their  Christian  fellow  countrymen 
and  people  of  other  traditional  religions  —  firmly 
condemns  and  rejects  violence  in  all  of  its  forms  and 
manifestations. By the same token, we reject facile and 
unjust assignments of blame. Neither Islam nor Muslims 
are to blame for what we are witnessing. We refuse to 
have the senseless acts of a faithless, lawless minority 
be used as a pretext for stigmatizing more than 1 billion 
Muslims and their religion. When imams are killed and 
mosques are attacked, including acred Islamic sites, it is 
Muslims whose faith and very core are being attacked. 
We must therefore not condemn Muslims for actions of 
which they themselves are the victims. It is high time to 
cease the madness and Islamophobic slurs.
Senegal  is  concerned  every  time  measures  target 
Muslim  countries  and  communities,  in  violation  of 
human  rights  and  the  rules  that  govern  international 
relations.  To  lapse  into  senseless  Islamophobia  only 
compounds  suffering  with  more  suffering.  It  stokes 
antagonism and exacerbates the clash of civilizations, 
which plays into the hands of extremists of all stripes. 
Given the global terrorist threat affecting us all, good 
sense  dictates  the  need  to  cooperate  to  vanquish  evil 
with a global, united and concerted response.
The values that bring us together and make each of 
our peoples feel like part of the United Nations family 
derive from the fact that all civilizations and cultures 
are  equal  in  dignity.  Therefore,  since  we  are  the 
United Nations, let us apply the same commitment and 
diligence to tackling all of the challenges we face, from 
Syria  to  Libya,  from  South  Sudan  to  Somalia,  from 
Northern  Mali  to  countries  plagued  by  the  criminal 
activities  of  the  Boko  Haram  terrorist  group.  Let  us 
give  the  same  priority  to  all  threats  to  international 
peace and security.
Let  us  finally  work  to  arrive  at  a  fair  solution  to 
the  protracted  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict,  one  which 
upholds  the  legitimate  right  of  the  Palestinian  people 
to a State living side by side with Israel in peace, each 
within  secure  and  internationally  recognized  borders. 
Let  us  extend  the  same  respect  and  humanity  to  all 
migrants, refugees and displaced persons, regardless of 
their origin. 
Let  us  finally  rectify  the  historical  injustice  of  a 
Security Council without a permanent seat for Africa, 
the  only  continent  in  that  situation.  I  would  recall  in 
that  connection  that  Africa  accounts  for  nearly  one 
third  of  United  Nations  Members,  and  that  issues 
involving  Africa  form  the  bulk  of  the  work  of  the 
Security Council. Senegal will continue its mandate in 
the Security Council. We remain wedded to the African 
position,  as  set  forth  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus.  We 
remain  open  to  dialogue  with  those  whose  opinions 
differ from ours.
Last year, we adopted the Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  for  the  period  up  until  2030,  and  we 
adopted  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change. 
With  the  theme  of  this  session,  which  calls  for  a 
universal  effort  to  transform  our  world,  we  have  a 
fresh  opportunity  to  translate  our  commitments  into 
action.  For  African  countries,  the  issue  of  energy 
remains a vital challenge, because there can be neither 
industrialization  nor  development  without  access  to 
electricity at competitive costs. Africa cannot continue 
16-29415
23/30
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
to enlighten other continents with its resources, while 
it  itself  remains  in  the  dark.  Africa  cannot  continue 
to  serve  as  a  reservoir  for  raw  materials,  processed 
elsewhere to the detriment of its own industrialization. 
Africa cannot remain the continent that is most affected 
by  climate  change,  even  though  our  contribution  to 
carbon dioxide emissions related to electricity is at the 
lowest level, expected to reach only 3 per cent in 2040.
The  Paris  Agreement,  which  we  signed  in  April, 
compels  us  to  work  together  and  calls  for  developing 
countries, especially in Africa, not to adopt the same 
polluting  patterns  as  industrialized  countries.  To  that 
end,  the  African  Union  last  July  launched  a  support 
fund  to  provide  electricity  to  Africa.  The  fund  is 
housed at the African Development Bank, and its aim 
is to mobilize financing for electricity projects as part 
of an energy mix. On behalf of the New Partnership for 
Africa’s Development, the steering committee of which 
Senegal chairs, I commend the support of France and 
Germany  for  that  initiative.  I  invite  all  bilateral  and 
multilateral  partners  to  contribute  to  the  financing  of 
the  fund  for  providing  energy  to  Africa,  in  line  with 
the commitments made under the Paris Agreement to 
finance mitigation and adaptation measures.
Furthermore,  I  call  for  a  different  view  of 
development challenges in Africa. Let us set aside the 
clichés of a bygone past. Let us not look at Africa as 
a  land  of  humanitarian  emergencies  and  a  receptacle 
for  official  development  assistance,  but  rather  as  a 
continent that is being built, a centre for development 
and  progress.  Africa  is  a  continent  of  roads  and 
highways, of bridges and railways, of dams and power 
plants,  of  industrial  zones  and  modern  agricultural 
farms.  That  is  our  ambition  for  our  countries.  We 
cannot achieve that ambition through assistance, only 
through large-scale urgent investments in sectors that 
generate growth and development. We wish to depend 
mainly  on  the  mobilization  of  our  own  resources 
through  more  effective  public  spending,  greater  and 
fairer  remuneration  for  our  raw  materials,  regulated 
taxation  and  a  more  robust  struggle  against  illicit 
financial flows.
In  that  connection,  Senegal  supports  the  plan  to 
combat  tax-base  erosion  and  profit-shifting,  which 
was  initiated  by  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development  and  the  Group  of  20, 
with support from the World Bank and the International 
Monetary  Fund.  At  the  same  time,  I  would  call  for 
the  immediate  implementation  of  the  “Strengthening 
assistance for complex contract negotiations” initiative 
of the Group of Seven, especially in the area of mines 
and  hydrocarbons.  We  wish  to  see  fair  and  balanced 
contracts that protect both the interests of the investor 
and the rights of the host country.
Finally,  I  would  call  upon  all  public  and  private 
partners  not  to  overestimate  the  investment  risks  in 
Africa.  Africa  has  achieved  significant  progress  in 
terms  of  good  governance  and  improvements  in  the 
business  climate.  The  risk  there  is  not  greater  than 
elsewhere,  and  clearly,  for  a  global  economy  that  is 
currently suffering, Africa does not pose risks. Rather, 
the  continent  affords  opportunities  for  recovery  and 
shared growth. Let us work to reform global financing 
so as to alleviate the conditions limiting access to credit 
for development financing.
By  drawing  upon  our  faith  in  a  new  Africa, 
for  two  years  we  have  continued  to  implement  the 
Emerging  Senegal  Plan  through  major  infrastructure 
projects,  notably  central  electric-power  plants,  a  new 
urban  centre,  transportation  infrastructure,  including 
a  second  toll  road,  and  the  forthcoming  launch  of  a 
regional  express  train  line  linking  Dakar  to  our  new 
international airport, soon to be finished.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  all  his  efforts  and 
service to the United Nations in this difficult time.
terms.  The  path 
I  also  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  President  Barak 
Obama  of  the  United  States  for  his  contribution  to 
the  international  agenda  over  the  course  of  his  two 
presidential 
taken  by  President 
Obama  through  the  decision  of  the  American  people 
is a historic message, a universal message, a message 
inviting every person to overcome the shadows of their 
own prejudice to embrace the light of wisdom. It is a 
message of humanity that is reminiscent of the eloquent 
words delivered by the Reverend Martin Luther King, 
Jr. 53 years ago in front of the Lincoln Memorial, that 
people “will not be judged by the colour of their skin, 
but by the content of their character”.
What holds true for humankind also holds true for 
nations. There are no large and small nations; there are 
united nations. And since we are the United Nations, all 
voices must count when we deliberate on our common 
issues. I wish the General Assembly every success in 
its work.
24/30 
16-29415
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.10
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Senegal for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Macky Sall, President of the Republic of Senegal, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. John Key, Prime Minister of 
New Zealand
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of New Zealand.
Mr. John Key, Prime Minister of New Zealand, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have great pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Key,  Prime 
Minister of New Zealand, and inviting him to address 
the General Assembly.
Mr.  Key  (New  Zealand):  It  is  special  pleasure  to 
speak to the General Assembly under the presidency of 
a Pacific island friend.
The world is facing serious challenges. Borders are 
closing to people and products, and to investment and 
ideas. Many States are turning inwards. The politics of 
fear and extremism are gaining ground. Too many States 
are flouting the rules. But no country can face today’s 
challenges alone. Now more than ever, we need to show 
that we are united in our respect for the principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations. They are the basic 
principles that underpin our global system, born from 
the  bitter  experience  of  war,  and  they  are  as  relevant 
today as they were in 1945.
in 
trading  nation 
My country, New Zealand, is a proudly independent, 
multicultural 
the  Asia-Pacific 
region. The international system matters to us. We are 
committed to being a good global citizen and to playing 
our part. We rise on the fortunes of all Member States. 
We believe that it is in all our interests to be open and 
outward-facing,  to  work  through  our  differences,  to 
have  rules  and,  most  of  all,  to  play  by  them.  Now  is 
the time to reinforce the relevance and standing of the 
United Nations in our response to today’s challenges.
There  are  many  areas  where  the  United  Nations 
could  be  more  efficient,  more  representative,  more 
responsive  and  show  greater  leadership.  It  is  our 
collective responsibility as Member States to face up to 
the political commitment necessary to make the United 
Nations the body that we want it to be.
For the past two years, our focus has been on the 
Security Council. We are using our term on the Council 
to raise the tough issues, because we believe that that is 
what the Council is for and what our supporters expect 
us to do. New Zealand is working for a Security Council 
that  shows  more  leadership  on  the  toughest  political 
issues, that works harder to get the incentives right so 
as to broker solutions and that is better at responding to 
political crises before they spiral out of control.
The  Council  has  put  its  weight  behind  many 
successes, from the adoption of the Iran deal to ending 
the  long-running  war  in  Colombia.  But  the  Council 
also  has  shortcomings  that,  if  not  addressed,  risk 
undermining its relevance and standing in world affairs. 
For  the  vast  majority  of  Member  States,  which  are 
dependent on a fair, rules-based international system, 
a weak Council is not an option. We acknowledge that 
the Council does not have a role in every crisis. But the 
reality is that we need the Council to respond when no 
one else can. That is why we have consistently called for 
Council action to revive the Middle East peace process.
We  have  also  been  deeply  troubled  to  see  the 
Council, the pre-eminent body for international peace 
and  security,  fail  to  live  up  to  its  responsibilities  on 
the most serious crisis of our time — Syria. There the 
Council  has  fallen  short.  The  internal  politics  within 
the  Council  and  the  sheer  complexity  of  the  Syrian 
crisis have obstructed a unified Council response. But 
we  believe  that  no  matter  how  difficult  and  sensitive 
the  issues,  the  Council  cannot  watch  the  situation  go 
from bad to worse for the Syrian people. The Security 
Council  was  established  to  address  crises  such  as 
that which we see in Syria. That is why New Zealand 
is  using  our  presidency  of  the  Council  to  convene  a 
leaders’ level meeting tomorrow on Syria.
A  meeting  by  itself  will  not  stop  the  conflict. 
But  after  more  than  five  years  of  brutal  fighting  and 
horrific  humanitarian  suffering,  we  do  not  think  that 
it is credible for leaders to come to New York and not 
address the stark realities driving the conflict. We hope 
that tomorrow’s meeting will provide an opportunity for 
Council leaders to take stock of developments, examine 
16-29415
25/30
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
the fundamental issues at the heart of the conflict and 
discuss how we can move towards a sustainable political 
solution.
We  also  hope  that  the  meeting  will  be  a  chance 
for  the  Council  to  put  its  weight  behind  the  ceasefire 
agreement  reached  between  the  United  States  and 
Russia. That agreement is the best chance we have had 
in some time to stop the fighting, get aid to those who 
need it and get back on track for a political resolution 
to the crisis.
Another  critical  issue  on  which  New  Zealand 
supports  unified  Council  action  is  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  New  Zealand  believes 
that  a  strong  international  response  is  required  to 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  nuclear 
test  on  9  September  and  its  recent  missile  tests.  The 
regime’s  efforts  to  advance  its  nuclear  and  missile 
programmes, its callous disregard for the North Korean 
people, as demonstrated by the human rights situation 
in  the  country,  and  its  leader’s  unpredictably  ruthless 
rule have made it one of our most pressing international 
security  threats.  Its  provocative  actions  show  blatant 
disregard  for  Security  Council  resolutions  and  pose 
a  grave  threat  to  international  law.  They  have  raised 
tensions on the Korean peninsula to a point where the 
risk of conflict is dangerously high. We cannot afford 
further escalation.
New  Zealand  therefore  welcomes  recent  steps  by 
the United States and China to begin negotiating a new 
Security Council resolution, following the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  recent  nuclear  test.  We 
hope  that  this  will  send  a  clear  signal  to  the  North 
Korean  leadership  that  continued  provocative  and 
dangerous  actions  are  unacceptable  and  that  a  return 
to  the  negotiating  table  represents  the  only  sensible 
way  forward.  The  international  community  must 
stand together in conveying these messages, including 
through fully implementing Security Council sanctions.
The  Council  has  impact  and  influence  when 
it  is  unified,  but  we  have  to  get  better  at  identifying 
incentives that encourage unified Council positions. For 
a country with a proud tradition of being a pragmatic 
bridge-builder  and  problem-solver,  the  Council  can 
be an incredibly frustrating place to work. But we are 
committed to trying to make it work because it is in our 
collective interest to have a strong and relevant Council.
We  all  need  to  make  an  investment  in  keeping  it 
on  track  where  it  is  needed  most:  in  preventing  and 
stopping  conflict.  That  means  coming  to  the  Council 
ready  to  find  a  way  to  get  beyond  vested  political 
interests  and  being  prepared  to  work  on  compromise 
solutions that stop the fighting.
The  veto  plays  a  huge  part  in  the  Council’s 
effectiveness.  No  matter  how  hard  we  work  to  find 
compromises, time and time again we come up against 
the  veto.  The  use  of  the  veto,  the  threat  of  the  veto, 
the  exploitation  of  the  veto  is  well  beyond  what  the 
founders of the United Nations ever envisaged.
We  acknowledge  that  addressing  regional  and 
national interests is a fundamental part of the process of 
finding durable solutions. But increasingly the Charter 
is being ignored and the Council seen as irrelevant as 
countries put pursuit of their national interests before 
almost anything else. The time for moving forward on 
Security  Council  reform  is  now.  We  will  be  pushing 
more  than  ever  for  action  in  the  General  Assembly 
to  make  the  Council  better  reflect  today’s  realities 
and needs.
New Zealand is also working to make the Council 
more effective in conflict prevention. We want to make 
the Council better at responding to political crises before 
they spiral out of control. There is no lack of mandate 
for  conflict  prevention.  It  is  in  the  Charter.  There  is 
no  lack  of  information  about  escalating  situations. 
We  see  the  evidence  of  this,  often  in  the  most  heart-
breaking images in the media. The problem is that we 
do not always have the will, and we do not use the tools 
available to us.
Many  States  block  action,  asserting  sovereignty 
and  ignoring  the  rest  of  the  Charter.  Others  do  not 
want  to  spend  the  money.  Most  have  bilateral  or 
national interests. And leaders of countries in political 
crisis  often  do  not  want  their  actions  to  be  on  the 
Council’s agenda.
But  we  cannot  ignore  the  growing  gap  between 
the  humanitarian  costs  of  picking  up  the  pieces  after 
conflict  and  the  amount  that  the  United  Nations 
allocates to prevent conflict. The shortfall is growing 
at  an  unsustainable  rate,  while  the  peace  operations 
budget is increasing year on year.
But this is not about money. It is about saving lives. 
That is why New Zealand is trying to get the Council 
working more closely with regional organizations and 
getting the Council to be more willing to engage at an 
earlier point with countries in crisis. This is a focus of 
26/30 
16-29415
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.10
our presidency, and it will continue to be a focus of our 
work when we come off the Council.
Beyond  the  Security  Council,  parts  of  the  United 
Nations  system  are  stepping  up.  There  have  been 
significant  steps  forward  on  development,  climate, 
financing,  humanitarian 
issues  and  disaster  risk 
reduction.  These  issues  are  of  significant  importance 
to  our  closest  development  partners,  small  island 
developing States.
For economic development to be fully realized, the 
Sustainable Development Goals must be implemented 
by all. But developments here in the United Nations do 
not exist in a vacuum, apart from the global economy 
and trading system. Sustainable economic development 
is a key driver of global growth, prosperity and, most 
of all, stability. This requires a fair, rules-based trading 
system,  more  open  trade  and  the  removal  of  trade 
barriers.
The multilateral trading system has been a critical 
factor  in  this  respect.  Last  year,  we  welcomed  an 
agreement  by  the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO) 
to  eliminate  agricultural  export  subsidies.  This  was 
the first legally binding international trade outcome in 
agriculture  since  1994.  This  matters  for  development 
and will make a real difference for rural communities.
But the types of challenges that the United Nations 
faces  are  similar  to  those  that  have  hindered  more 
progress  in  the  WTO  in  recent  years.  New  Zealand 
believes that the WTO needs to do more to set global 
trade  rules.  We  need  it  to  find  common  ground  that 
overcomes  vested  national  interests  and  agree  to 
new  international  trade  commitments  that  benefit 
all countries.
In 
the  Asia-Pacific 
through 
trade  agreements 
region,  closer  economic 
such  as 
integration 
the  Trans-Pacific  Partnership  and 
the  Regional 
Comprehensive  Economic  Partnership  will  also  bring 
us closer together. Agreements like these will make our 
region and people better off by setting the conditions 
for more open and transparent trade. A more prosperous 
and integrated region will also be a more secure one, 
and that is in all of our interests.
We  must  guard  against  creeping  protectionism 
and  be  willing  to  make  the  case  for  more  economic 
engagement  clearly.  We  cannot  turn  inward.  We 
cannot allow fear or narrow domestic interests to turn 
us  away  from  an  open  global  trading  system  that  has 
lifted  millions  out  of  poverty.  Countries  that  close 
their  borders  cannot  and  do  not  do  business.  History 
has  shown  that  this  does  not  work  for  our  countries. 
It  will  not  help  our  peoples,  and  protectionism  will 
have  a  chilling  effect  on  our  ability  to  deliver  on  the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
A  decision  of  critical  importance  to  the  future  of 
the United Nations will be made in the coming weeks. 
In April, I was very pleased to nominate former New 
Zealand  Prime  Minister  Helen  Clark  to  be  the  first 
United  Nations  Secretary-General  from  the  Pacific.
This is not the time for a business-as-usual appointment 
of  a  Secretary-General.  We  need  someone  who  is  up 
to  the  job.  The  next  Secretary-General  must  have  the 
courage,  experience  and  skills  necessary  to  lead  this 
Organisation, to keep it relevant and responsive. I have 
worked across the political divide from Helen Clark for 
years, and I know her to be a natural leader. She rallies 
people together to find common ground, even when the 
issues  are  difficult  and  the  differences  vast.  She  gets 
things done. We think it is time for a Secretary-General 
like Helen Clark.
I  am  proud  of  the  contribution  that  New  Zealand 
is  making  to  the  Security  Council,  but  I  am  keenly 
aware  of  the  Council’s  limitations.  It  is  the  General 
Assembly  that  now  needs  to  act  to  make  the  United 
Nations stronger and more relevant to the world. New 
Zealand is committed to the principles and values of the 
United  Nations.  We  will  keep  working  hard  for  those 
principles, because we believe that they are vital for a 
safer, more prosperous future.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  New  Zealand  for  the  statement  he 
has just made.
Mr. John Key, Prime Minister of New Zealand, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Matteo Renzi, President of the 
Council of Ministers of the Republic of Italy
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Italy.
Mr.  Matteo  Renzi,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Republic of Italy, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
16-29415
27/30
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Matteo 
Renzi,  President  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  of  the 
Republic  of  Italy,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly.
the hearts of each one of us; it is the eyes of Nadia, the 
Yazidi girl whom I met yesterday, who escaped from the 
violence of Da’esh and is today a courageous witness in 
a battle on behalf of human rights, of women’s rights, 
of freedom.
Mr. Renzi (Italy) (spoke in Italian; interpretation 
provided by the delegation): As we approach the close 
of this day, I feel the responsibility to refer from this 
rostrum to the statement addressed to all of us by the 
President  of  the  United  States,  Barack  Obama  (see 
A/71/PV.8).  In  summarizing  the  past  eight  years  of 
his  presidency  and  his  relationship  with  the  United 
Nations,  he  highlighted  how  the  international  context 
today is riven by a deep division between the world of 
fear  and  the  world  of  courage,  between  the  world  of 
resentment and the world of hope, and between anger 
and opportunity.
A  new  season  is  therefore  beginning,  one  filled 
with  opportunities  and  possibilities,  but  also  with 
unprecedented  threats  and  difficulties  that,  until  a 
short  while  ago,  had  seemed  in  all  likelihood  to  be 
very  remote.  Foremost  among  them  is  the  threat  of 
terrorism to our cities, to everyday life. Terrorism no 
longer strikes only conventional targets, but rather the 
human  dimension:  a  theatre,  a  restaurant,  a  museum, 
a stadium. Also pressing are the risks connected with 
pandemics,  which  are  sometimes  exaggerated  but 
very  often  constitute  grave  risks,  as  well  as  the  risks 
connected to the environment, to which this community 
of women and men, together with my colleagues, was 
able to give a response by signing the important Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change this past April.
But  there  are  also  risks  linked  with  other  events 
that combine to make the future seem more a time of 
concern than of hope, from risks connected to natural 
disasters — one of which Italy experienced a few weeks 
ago in Amatrice, Cumuli and Arquata  — to the great 
questions  concerning  migration  and  the  worries  that 
that  phenomenon  instils  in  the  hearts  of  people,  the 
questions it raises and the difficulties it presents. The 
future has therefore become more and more a place of 
doubt, of fear. Yet we need to choose the road of hope, 
the road of possibility, the road of opportunity.
The problems are not in fact theoretical problems 
that need to be tackled by an assembly of experts. These 
problems have a face: it is the face of Omran, the Syrian 
boy, shell-shocked, covered in blood, looking with his 
big  eyes  not  so  much  at  the  photographer’s  lens  as  at 
They are challenges and threats for which borders 
no longer exist. They are in the hearts of our cities and 
sometimes  on  the  outskirts  of  European  cities,  which 
have often forgotten the true sense of threats inside our 
borders  rather  than  outside  them.  Every  reference  to 
what happened between Paris and Brussels is deliberate.
I  therefore  wondered,  in  conveying  the  greetings 
of Italy, which voice from Rome I should bring to those 
issues.  It  would  be  nice,  of  course,  to  share  with  the 
Assembly  the  words  of  hope  and  also  of  pride  that 
characterize  the  concrete  acts  of  saving  hundreds  of 
thousands of human lives from the Mediterranean — lives 
otherwise condemned by desperation — by the Italian 
women and men wearing the uniform of the Navy or the 
Coast Guard.
It  would  be  nice  to  bring  to  each  member  of  the 
General  Assembly  the  pride  and  the  voice  of  the 
Italians  who  work  in  the  fields  of  culture,  education 
and  research;  of  Italians  who,  together  with  other 
Europeans,  are  leading  the  European  mission  that 
in a few weeks will see for the first time a European 
spacecraft land on Mars, on 19 October, in exactly one 
month — a sign of the research that is making Europe 
not only a place of technocrats and bureaucrats, but also 
a place looking toward the future.
Yet  I  would  like  to  propose  a  different,  even 
provocative image. The image of Rome that I would like 
to propose is that of Aeneas. Aeneas is the man of the 
journey.  Mythology  is  filled  with  examples  of  people 
who set out on journeys. Some set out on a journey to 
return  home,  like  Odysseus.  And  some,  like  Aeneas, 
chose to journey to create a new city, a new civilization. 
Aeneas  sets  out  on  a  journey  carrying  on  his 
shoulders his ailing father. It is a sign of a generation 
that  is  not  afraid  to  assume  its  responsibilities  and 
that believes that the experience of the elderly is still 
an  absolute  value  and  will  go  so  far  as  to  bear  on  its 
shoulders  the  added  burden  of  history.  Aeneas  is  the 
man who ensures for his son, Ascanius, the possibility 
of  going  on  to  live  and  to  found  the  great  history  of 
Rome.  But  Aeneas  is  the  man  who,  in  the  foundation 
myth,  is  the  bearer  of  pietas,  the  sense  of  profound 
respect,  halfway  between  the  religious  value  and 
28/30 
16-29415
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.10
the  profound  sense  of  cultural  identity  that  makes 
a  community  worthy  of  being  called  a  community. 
Without pietas, without compassion for others, there is 
no room for community. And this is why, to my mind, 
it is essential that we tackle the challenge launched this 
morning from this rostrum by Barack Obama with the 
great value of pietas and the building of communities to 
which the myth of Aeneas refers.
This is how Italy will tackle the challenges of 2017: 
by participating in the Security Council, a responsibility 
that it will share with the Netherlands. It will participate 
in the Council, which will see a new Secretary-General, 
with the assumption of responsibility and the conviction 
that the Sustainable Development Goals, the challenges 
associated  with  environmental  and 
technological 
sustainability  and  the  building  of  an  ever-stronger 
community will reflect the values that have made our 
history great. In 2017 Italy will participate in the life of 
the international community by hosting, on 25 March, 
the  States  members  of  the  European  Union  for  the 
sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  signing  of  the  European 
Treaty, with the goal of making of Europe not merely an 
evocation of history but rather a new chapter in a book 
to  be  written  with  increased  ideals,  dreams,  horizons 
and vision, not with a tiring and repetitive day-by-day 
listing of bureaucratic rules and decisions.
Italy will lead the work of the Group of Seven (G-
7), which will meet at a splendid site in Sicily — that 
land of great culture and great values — by the Greek 
theatre  in  Taormina,  facing  Mount  Etna  with  the 
Mediterranean Sea before it bathing the shores of that 
extraordinary  region.  The  agenda  will  focus  on  the 
actions that we have been discussing today: increasing 
our  contributions  to  development  cooperation  and 
investments in education. For we must not forget that, 
if  the  terrorist  problem  has  its  origins  in  theatres  of 
war,  there  is  also  a  terrorist  problem  originating  in 
the  abandoned  outskirts  of  our  cities,  and  the  only 
weapon that can counter such terrorism is an enormous 
investment in education and human capital.
We  are  very  proud  that  the  Italian  Government 
has adopted a law, with the support of representatives 
of  Parliament,  that  stipulates  that  for  every  euro 
invested  in  security,  policing,  cybertechnology  and 
cybersecurity,  one  euro  must  be  invested  in  culture, 
education,  recreation,  preschool  education,  theatres 
and  other  venues  that  nurture  the  spirit  and  the  soul, 
because that is another way to fight the crisis of our era.
We will ensure that the meeting of the G-7 serves 
as  an  important  occasion  to  reflect  on  the  values  of 
identity  and  culture,  as  well  as  the  challenge  of  food 
in  the  double  sense  of  the  fight  against  poverty  and 
starvation,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  value  of  food 
security  and  health  awareness,  on  the  other.  At  the 
same time, we are convinced that the challenge facing 
the Security Council, the challenge facing Europe and 
the challenge facing the G-7 share the same root, based 
on the same blueprint.
It  is  our  duty  as  Italians  to  bring  our  voice  and 
our contribution to the United Nations in seeking and 
identifying ancient values with a new inflection. Today, 
the pietas of Aeneas has become an opportunity to build 
a new world based on hope and not on resentment, hatred 
or  anger.  Our  people,  our  men  and  women,  continue 
to work to serve the ideals of peace. They include our 
women  and  men  in  diplomacy  and  politics,  and  the 
women and men who serve our country by wearing a 
uniform in Afghanistan and in Somalia, by protecting 
the  Mosul  Dam  in  an  area  fundamental  to  the  future 
of  our  planet,  and  by  serving  in  the  Balkans  as  well, 
in particular in Serbia. They are security professionals 
with additional features, namely, the priority they place 
on humanity.
The  women  and  men  who  make  us  proud  to  be 
a  part  of  the  Italian  heritage  know  that  we  have  not 
originated from nothing, but rather from the tradition 
to  which  I  have  referred,  one  that  finds  its  highest 
expression  represented  by  the  Mediterranean  Sea. 
The  Mediterranean  is  the  sea  that  the  Romans  called 
Mare  Nostrum  —  our  sea.  It  is  the  sea  where  today 
hundreds and thousands of people seek refuge as they 
flee  from  war,  from  hunger  and  from  poverty.  The 
responsibility for that part of the world has become our 
ever-growing burden.
In  comparison,  while  we  can  say  that  progress 
has  been  made  in  Libya  since  last  year,  too  little  has 
been  accomplished  by  the  international  community, 
particularly Europe, in transforming the Mediterranean 
Sea into a place where we meet the challenge of dignity. 
If we do not prioritize the values of humanity and pietas 
in  that  geographic  area,  in  that  corner  of  the  world, 
we will have betrayed our tradition. That is why Italy 
accepts the challenge launched today by the President 
of the United States to the General Assembly by stating 
that  we  will  always  be  on  the  side  of  democracy, 
freedom,  values  and  ideals,  with  the  determination 
that  flows  from  those  who  have  a  great  dream  and  a 
16-29415
29/30
A/71/PV.10 
21/09/2016
great vision, but also at the same time the deep desire 
to  make  politics  into  a  noble  and  concrete  activity, 
by  intervening  without  leaving  the  responsibility 
for  follow-up  to  others  and  by  fully  embracing  the 
deeper meaning of the challenge that we, for our part, 
call humanity.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of 
Italy for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Matteo  Renzi,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  of  the  Republic  of  Italy,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 9.15 p.m.
30/30 
16-29415
