United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
44th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 9 November 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.44
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda items 71 and 129
Report of the International Tribunal for the 
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious 
Violations of International Humanitarian Law 
Committed in the Territory of the Former 
Yugoslavia since 1991
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
twenty-third annual report of the International 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (A/71/263)
International Residual Mechanism for 
Criminal Tribunals
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
fourth annual report of the International Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals (A/71/262)
The  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  Judge  Carmel 
Agius,  President  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Former Yugoslavia.
Judge  Agius  (International  Tribunal  for 
the 
Former  Yugoslavia):  Allow  me  to  begin  by  extending 
my sincere congratulations to you, Sir, on your election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  wish  you  a 
successful tour of duty.
This  is  the  first  time  that  I  appear  before  the 
Assembly in my capacity as President of the International 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY).  It  is  an 
immense honour for me to address the members of the 
Assembly and it is my pleasure to present the twenty-
third annual report (A/71/263) of the ICTY.
Almost  exactly  one  year  ago,  I  assumed  my  new 
functions as President of the ICTY. However, as most 
of  the  Member  States  know,  I  have  been  a  Judge  of 
the  Tribunal  since  2001  and  previously  served  as 
Vice-President  for  four  years,  before  being  elected  as 
President. The Tribunal’s new leadership also includes 
a new Vice-President, my colleague from China, Judge 
Liu Daqun. Today, I also wish to thank my predecessor, 
Judge Theodor Meron, who is present and with whom 
I continue to work very closely in his capacity not only 
as  an  Appeals  Chamber  Judge,  but  also  as  President 
of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals.  That 
relevant  because 
the  report  before  the  Assembly  details  not  only  the 
progress  made  in  the  past  year  towards  completion 
of  the  Tribunal’s  mandate,  but  also  the  transition  to 
the Mechanism.
is  particularly 
I  am  truly  fortunate  to  have  assumed  office  at  a 
time when the Tribunal is fully operational, strong and 
well prepared for its final chapter. We have reached that 
stage thanks to the leadership of my predecessors, the 
relentless efforts of my fellow judges past and present, 
and the superb staff with whom the institution has been 
blessed. The Tribunal has now concluded proceedings 
against  154  accused  of  the  161  persons  indicted  for 
serious violations of international humanitarian law. I 
am pleased to say that there are no remaining fugitives 
charged  with  such  violations.  In  a  pending  contempt 
case, however, there are three accused persons whose 
arrest warrants are yet to be executed.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-37174 (E)
*1637174*
A/71/PV.44 
09/11/2016
As  we  prepare  to  close  in  2017,  the  Tribunal  has 
continued its diligent efforts to complete the remaining 
judicial  work  expeditiously,  while  respecting  due 
process  and  the  fair  trial  rights  of  the  accused, 
which  must  remain  paramount.  The  work  undertaken 
throughout  the  reporting  period,  which  ended  on 
1  August,  saw  more  cases  disposed  of  than  in  the 
previous  reporting  period,  with  judgments  issued  in 
two cases at the trial level, and two cases on appeal. In 
addition, the judges of the Appeals Chamber delivered 
their judgment in the final and largest-ever appeal case 
from  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda 
(ICTR). A further trial case was terminated in July of 
this year following the death of the accused.
Today I wish to outline for the Assembly the five 
main challenges that the ICTY will face in the next 12 
months.
The first challenge is ensuring that the remaining 
cases stay on track for a timely and responsible closure, 
as well as a smooth transition to the Mechanism. Under 
my leadership, the Tribunal is committed to completing 
its remaining judicial work as quickly and efficiently as 
possible. The judges and legal staff are now focused on 
one remaining trial, namely that against Ratko Mladić, 
one  remaining  appeal,  the  Prosecutor  v.  Prlić  et  al. 
case, and one contempt case, the Jojić et al. procedure. 
While in number of cases alone that might not seem like 
much work, I can assure the Assembly that the ongoing 
Mladić case is one of the Tribunal’s most complex trials 
and  that  Prlić  et  al.  is  the  largest  appeal  case  in  the 
history of international criminal justice.
At  the  same  time,  as  the  Tribunal  concludes  its 
judicial  work,  certain  essential  functions  continue  to 
be  transferred  to  the  Mechanism.  In  the  light  of  the 
projected  completion  dates  of  the  Mladić  and  Prlić 
cases,  which  are  set  for  the  end  of  November  2017, 
a  request  for  a  final  extension  of  the  judges’  terms 
of  office  was  recently  made  to  the  Security  Council. 
I  am  hopeful  that  the  States  members  of  the  Council 
will support the request, as the extension of the judges’ 
mandates  is  crucial  if  the  Tribunal  is  to  complete  its 
remaining work on time and ensure an orderly closure.
The second challenge is the taking of all necessary 
measures  to  encourage  the  retention  of  all  Tribunal 
staff  and  prevent  accelerated  staff  attrition.  As  we 
near  the  end  of  the  Tribunal’s  mandate  and  continue 
working diligently in order to complete the final cases 
without  delay,  all  organs  of  the  Tribunal  are  closely 
cooperating to address the escalating challenges of staff 
attrition and staff morale. In that regard, the Tribunal 
is  coordinating  with  the  Department  of  Management 
to  explore  possible  further  measures  to  address  that 
critical situation. It is incumbent upon me to take this 
opportunity to underscore that the staff of the Tribunal 
are  highly  dedicated, 
talented  and  professional 
individuals. It is thanks to their enormous efforts and 
contribution that we continue to make good progress in 
the remaining cases. However, the fact remains that as 
the Tribunal nears its ultimate closure, staff members 
at all levels will continue to depart from the Tribunal 
for  more  secure  employment  elsewhere.  While  that  is 
disappointing,  it  is  understandable;  they  are,  indeed, 
free to do so.
them 
to  measures 
remedies.  Furthermore, 
The  Tribunal  urgently  needs  the  assistance  of 
Member States to address the acute staffing challenges 
to  give  serious  and  favourable 
and  urges 
consideration 
that  would  prevent 
accelerated  staff  attrition.  Exceptional  circumstances 
require  exceptional 
the 
Tribunal  hopes  that  Member  States  will  continue  to 
offer  other  forms  of  staffing  assistance  to  reinforce 
our work, as the People’s Republic of China generously 
offered in 2016. I recently had the opportunity to host 
Chinese diplomats, fellows and staff in my Chambers 
in  appreciation  of  that  support,  and  today  I  take  the 
opportunity to publicly acknowledge the efforts of the 
Chinese  Government  in  that  respect.  Nevertheless, 
a  more  comprehensive  solution  is  needed.  This  will 
involve finding a way of keeping experienced staff, who 
know  the  cases  and  the  Tribunal’s  working  methods, 
until the end.
The  third  challenge  is  that  of  defending  the 
integrity  of  the  Tribunal,  which  includes  enforcing  a 
zero-tolerance policy in respect of witness interference. 
The  role  of  witnesses  is  central  to  any  international 
criminal justice system. Over the course of the past 23 
years, the ICTY has heard 4,670 witnesses — far more 
than any other war crimes tribunal in modern history. 
At  the  Tribunal,  we  have  a  specially  established  unit 
aimed  at  supporting  and  protecting  witnesses.  So  far, 
the ICTY has managed to prosecute and convict several 
persons responsible for witness interference, including 
intimidation  and  tampering.  I  must  emphasize  that 
any  interference  with  the  administration  of  justice 
not  only  undermines  the  integrity  of  proceedings, 
but  also  has  a  chilling  effect  on  actual  and  potential 
witnesses.  International  courts  and  tribunals  must 
2/16 
16-37174
09/11/2016 
A/71/PV.44
therefore  continue  to  take  a  decisive  stand  against 
witness  interference  and  enforce  a  zero-tolerance 
policy. Contempt trials have a crucial role to play in this 
respect.  Accordingly,  the  total  support  of  the  United 
Nations is imperative.
As Member States will be aware, in the Prosecutor 
v.  Jojić  et  al.  contempt  case,  the  accused  Petar  Jojić, 
Jovo  Ostojić  and  Vjerica  Radeta  are  charged  with 
four counts of contempt of court in relation to alleged 
witness  intimidation  in  the  Seselj  case.  The  Republic 
of  Serbia  has  yet  to  execute  their  arrest  warrants, 
which  were  issued  over  21  months  ago.  The  Tribunal 
appreciates  that  political  sensitivities  may  arise  in 
certain  circumstances  as  a  result  of  cooperating  with 
the  ICTY.  However,  these  can  never  constitute  an 
excuse for failing to cooperate with the Tribunal, when 
such  cooperation  is  a  responsibility  flowing  from  the 
Statute of the Tribunal itself and reflects the desire of 
the  Security  Council  that  the  fight  against  impunity 
remain meaningful. The Tribunal’s next steps regarding 
Serbia’s non-cooperation will be communicated to the 
Security Council in December.
image  and  engaging 
The  fourth  challenge 
involves  promoting 
in  discussion 
the 
Tribunal’s 
to 
consolidate  the  shared  legacy  of  both  the  Tribunal 
and  the  United  Nations.  As  the  Tribunal  prepares 
to  close  in  December  2017,  ensuring  that  its  work 
and  achievements  are  accessible  and  impactful  for 
stakeholders  in  the  former  Yugoslavia  and  elsewhere 
is  more  important  than  ever.  In  order  to  best  utilize 
this  crucial  remaining  time,  the  ICTY  has  developed 
an  initiative  entitled  ICTY  Legacy  Dialogues,  which 
will  consist  of  a  series  of  events,  both  this  year  and 
next,  that  are  designed  to  enable  others  to  build  on 
the achievements of the Tribunal. Each event will aim 
to  engage  with  actors  in  the  former  Yugoslavia  and 
elsewhere  who  can  utilize  the  ICTY’s  experience  to 
continue  to  develop  accountability  for  international 
crimes. These encounters are planned to take place in 
Sarajevo, The Hague and New York and will be designed 
as dynamic, interactive dialogues. We are counting on 
the  full  participation  of  Member  States,  as  what  the 
Tribunal will leave behind after December 2017 is not 
merely its own legacy, but primarily the legacy of the 
United Nations. The Tribunal’s experience has been a 
ground-breaking,  challenging  and  rewarding  journey 
in  international  humanitarian  law,  and  I  barely  need 
remind  the  Assembly  that  what  amounts  to  a  success 
for  the  Tribunal  is  even  more  so  a  success  for  this 
Organization as a whole and for international justice.
The  fifth  and  final  challenge 
jurisdictions 
is  supporting 
and  enabling  national 
to  adjudicate 
international crimes, including by enhancing regional 
cooperation. In accordance with its completion strategy, 
which was endorsed by the Security Council, the ICTY 
has focused its work on the prosecution of the most senior 
leaders,  while  referring  a  number  of  cases  involving 
intermediate and lower-rank accused to national courts 
in the countries of the former Yugoslavia. These referrals 
have  helped  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of  national 
courts to handle core international crime cases, ensure 
fair  trials  in  accordance  with  international  standards 
and  consolidate  the  rule  of  law.  With  the  completion 
of the Tribunal’s mandate approaching, accountability 
for these crimes now depends on national prosecution 
offices and judiciaries. Within existing capacities, the 
Tribunal is committed to assisting national authorities in 
the former Yugoslavia to expeditiously and effectively 
handle the large number of remaining war crimes cases. 
The  Tribunal  has  also  strongly  supported  efforts  to 
enhance cooperation between the States of the former 
Yugoslavia, as regional cooperation is an essential step 
in combating impunity, securing justice for all victims 
and rebuilding trust in the region.
In closing, on behalf of the entire Tribunal, I wish 
to  express  our  deep  gratitude  to  the  Governments  of 
Member  States  for  continuing  to  support  our  work.  I 
would also like to acknowledge the tremendous support 
of the Office of Legal Affairs, which reflects the Legal 
Counsel’s  unwavering  commitment  to  international 
criminal 
the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Uruguay,  together  with  his  team, 
for  so  ably  chairing  the  Security  Council’s  Informal 
Working Group on International Tribunals.
justice,  and 
thank 
to 
In addition, I take the opportunity to pay tribute to 
the outgoing Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon, for his dedicated efforts in fostering the age 
of  accountability,  and  to  congratulate  His  Excellency 
Mr.  António  Guterres  on  his  appointment  as  the  next 
Secretary-General. Last but not least, I would also like 
to thank you, Sir, for your support of the Tribunal.
With only one trial, one appeal and one contempt 
case  remaining,  the  Tribunal’s  mandate  is  nearly 
complete.  Although  it  is  not  over  and  we  face  some 
formidable challenges in the coming year, I have faith 
that,  through  the  continued  efforts  and  support  of 
16-37174
3/16
A/71/PV.44 
09/11/2016
the  international  community,  this  bold  experiment  in 
international justice will successfully conclude on time 
and, in the years to come, will continue to serve as a 
reminder of what is possible and what is achievable in 
the fight against impunity. 
The President: I now call on Judge Theodor Meron, 
President of the International Residual Mechanism for 
Criminal Tribunals. 
Judge  Meron  (International  Residual  Mechanism 
for  Criminal  Tribunals):  It  is  a  privilege  for  me  to 
appear before the General Assembly once again in my 
capacity as President of the Mechanism for International 
Criminal Tribunals.
Before  I  turn  to  the  substance  of  my  remarks,  I 
wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  you, 
Mr.  President,  on  Fiji’s  assumption  of  the  presidency 
of the General Assembly and to wish you every success 
during  your  term.  I  also  wish  to  acknowledge  the 
steadfast support and assistance provided by the Office 
of  Legal  Affairs  and,  in  particular,  by  Mr.  Miguel  de 
Serpa  Soares,  the  Under-Secretary-General  for  Legal 
Affairs  and  United  Nations  Legal  Counsel,  and  by 
Mr. Stephen Mathias, the Assistant Secretary-General 
for Legal Affairs. Last, but certainly not least, I would 
like to acknowledge with pleasure my fellow Judge at 
the  Mechanism  and  the  President  of  the  International 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, Judge Agius.
As  many  know,  this  year,  2016,  marks  the  400th 
anniversary of William Shakespeare’s death. His fellow 
poet and playwright, Ben Jonson, wisely and correctly 
anticipated  in  1623  that  Shakespeare  was  not  of  an 
age, but for all time. Yet it is to my deep dismay that 
Shakespeare’s depictions of the ravages of war remain 
equally relevant today, some 400 years after he wrote 
them. War, in Shakespeare’s words, is the “son of hell” 
(Henry VI, Part 2); it is “fierce and bloody” (King John); 
and  “cruel”  (Timon  of  Athens).  Troilus  and  Cressida
gives us a gruelling account of the senseless slaughter 
of war, while Hamlet offers the most powerful statement 
on  the  futility  of  war  in  a  speech  against  sacrificing 
thousands of lives for trivial causes, for “a fantasy and 
trick of fame”.
While  much  has  not  changed  when  it  comes  to 
conflict  and  bloodshed  in  the  course  of  400  years,  at 
least one important thing has. During the past quarter 
century, the international community has come together 
as never before in an effort to end impunity for grave 
violations of international law and to promote respect 
for the rule of law — or what Shakespeare refers to as 
“the majesty and power of law and justice” (Henry IV, 
Part 2), which the Chief Justice of England invokes in 
explaining to the new King Henry V that even he had 
to submit to justice for infractions he had committed as 
Prince Hal.
By  establishing  the  International  Tribunal  for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR)  in  the  early 
1990s and the other international and hybrid criminal 
courts  that  would  follow  thereafter,  the  international 
community  has  made  manifest  its  commitment  to 
justice  and  to  the  principle  of  individual  criminal 
responsibility. In doing so, the international community 
has helped to bring about the dawn of what Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  has  described  as  a  new  age 
of accountability.
The 
International  Residual  Mechanism 
for 
Criminal Tribunals is very much a part of this global 
effort  to  ensure  accountability,  for  by  establishing 
it,  the  Security  Council  was  making  certain  that  the 
closure  of  the  ICTR  and  the  ICTY  would  not  open 
the  way  for  impunity  to  re-emerge  and  recognizing 
that  justice  and  the  rule  of  law  require  a  sustained 
commitment and support even after trials and appeals 
have been concluded.
the  Mechanism 
As  detailed  in  the  written  report  submitted  on 
behalf  of 
in  August  (A/71/262), 
much  has  transpired  in  the  year  since  I  last  appeared 
before the Assembly (see A/70/PV.31). On the judicial 
front,  following  the  issuance  of  ICTY  judgments  in 
December  2015  and  March  2016,  the  Mechanism  is 
seized  of  a  retrial  in  the  case  of  Jovica  Stanišić  and
Franko Simatović and appeals in the cases of Radovan 
Karadžić and Vojislav Šešelj. A wide variety of other 
requests  and  applications  are  regularly  filed  before 
the  Mechanism  and  addressed  by  the  Mechanism’s 
Judges,  the  majority  of  whom  are  —  consistent  with 
the  Security  Council’s  vision  of  the  Mechanism  as  a 
small  and  efficient  institution  —  working  remotely 
and part-time from their homes and offices around the 
world, carrying out their functions for the Mechanism 
on top of their other professional commitments. Since 
its establishment, the Mechanism has issued in excess 
of 800 judicial orders and decisions.
With  the  closure  of  the  ICTR  in  December  2015, 
the  Mechanism  has  assumed  responsibility  for  all 
remaining functions of that Tribunal, and preparations 
4/16 
16-37174
09/11/2016 
A/71/PV.44
for the transfer of relevant remaining ICTY functions 
continue,  in  anticipation  of  that  Tribunal’s  expected 
closure at the end of 2017.
Throughout the reporting period, essential ongoing 
functions — such as the protection of vulnerable victims 
and  witnesses,  the  provision  of  assistance  to  national 
jurisdictions seeking to ensure accountability in local 
proceedings,  and  the  supervision  of  the  enforcement 
of sentences — have also continued to be carried out 
with  care  and  professionalism.  Important  steps  have 
likewise been taken with regard to the management and 
preservation of the vital archives of the ICTR and the 
ICTY entrusted to the Mechanism.
It is in great part thanks to the sustained cooperation 
and  generosity  of  the  Government  of  the  United 
Republic of Tanzania that we will, less than three weeks 
from today, mark the opening of the Mechanism’s new 
premises  in  Arusha.  This  construction  project,  which 
reflects a lean and minimalist approach and incorporates 
best practices from other United Nations capital projects, 
has  taken  place  under  the  stewardship  of  the  General 
Assembly and remains — importantly — on budget. In 
the  meantime,  both  Tanzania  and  the  Netherlands,  as 
the host States of our respective branches, continue to 
support the Mechanism’s work on a near-daily basis in 
countless but meaningful ways.
It is thanks to the support and assistance of Member 
States in Africa and Europe that we are able to enforce 
sentences pronounced by the ICTR, the ICTY and the 
Mechanism. The support and cooperation of individual 
Member  States  is  likewise  essential  to  resolving 
the  situation  faced  by  the  Mechanism  with  regard  to 
individuals indicted by the ICTR who were subsequently 
acquitted  or  released  in  Tanzania.  The  appropriate 
relocation of these individuals, as I have stated before, 
is  a  crucial  challenge  for  international  justice  and  a 
humanitarian imperative. And the Mechanism will, of 
course, not have fulfilled its mandate unless and until 
all remaining fugitives indicted by the ICTR have been 
called to account. Success on this front will depend in 
great  part  upon  the  timely  cooperation  of  individual 
Member States. I wish the greatest success to Prosecutor 
Brammertz  in  his  continuing  efforts  in  this  regard. 
Indeed, as we move forward, seeking to fulfil all other 
aspects  of  our  mandate  in  the  best  way  possible,  the 
cooperation and support of the United Nations and its 
Members form the essential and invaluable basis for all 
our efforts.
It is in this context that I find that I must advise the 
Assembly of a serious matter having a great impact on 
the  effective  discharge  of  the  Mechanism’s  functions. 
On  20  December  2011,  following  the  nomination  by 
the  Government  of  Turkey,  the  Assembly  elected 
Judge  Aydin  Sefa  Akay,  of  Turkey,  as  a  Judge  of  the 
Mechanism  (see  A/66/PV.87).  This  election  followed 
Judge  Akay’s  distinguished  prior  service  as  a  Judge 
of the ICTR and, earlier, as an Ambassador of Turkey. 
After  consultation  by  the  Secretary-General  with  the 
Presidents of the Assembly and of the Security Council, 
Judge Akay was recently appointed for a new term as 
Judge of the Mechanism, commencing on 1 July 2016.
On  25  July,  as  President  of  the  Mechanism,  I 
appointed  Judge  Akay  to  a  bench  of  the  Appeals 
Chamber  to  address  a  motion  for  review  of  judgment 
and associated applications advanced by Mr. Augustin 
Ngirabatware,  who  is  currently  detained  following 
his  conviction.  Without  notification  to  the  United 
Nations or the Mechanism, on or around 21 September 
2016,  Judge  Akay  was  detained  in  Turkey  in  relation 
to  allegations  connected  to  the  events  of  July  2016 
directed against the constitutional order of Turkey, and 
has remained in detention since that time. As a result 
of Judge Akay’s detention, the proceedings to which he 
has been assigned have necessarily come to a standstill, 
with  corresponding  implications  for  the  fundamental 
rights of the applicant to the determination of his claims 
within a reasonable time.
Judicial independence is a cornerstone of the rule of 
law, and it is a long-standing and consistent practice to 
accord international judges privileges and immunities 
in  order  to  protect  the  independent  discharge  of  their 
judicial  functions.  The  Security  Council  accorded 
the judges of both the ICTR and the ICTY diplomatic 
immunity to that end. The Statute of the Mechanism, 
adopted  by  the  Council  acting  under  Chapter  VII  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  likewise  accords 
the  judges  of  the  Mechanism  diplomatic  immunity 
for  those  periods  of  time  in  which  they  are  engaged 
in  the  business  of  the  Mechanism.  In  according  the 
Judges of the Mechanism such immunity, the Council 
necessarily understood that, thanks to the Mechanism’s 
lean and efficient design and the statutory expectation 
that  Judges  will  work  remotely  as  much  as  possible 
and away from the seats of the Mechanism, the Judges 
would typically be carrying out their judicial work for 
the Mechanism in their State of nationality.
16-37174
5/16
A/71/PV.44 
09/11/2016
As  a  result  of  this  legal  framework,  Judge  Akay 
enjoyed  diplomatic  immunity  from  the  time  of  his 
assignment to the Ngirabatware proceedings on 25 July, 
and  continues  to  enjoy  such  immunity  through  to  the 
conclusion  of  those  proceedings.  The  United  Nations 
Office  of  Legal  Affairs,  on  behalf  of  the  Secretary-
General,  has  formally  asserted  this  protection  to  the 
Government of Turkey and, as a consequence, requested 
Judge  Akay’s  immediate  release  from  detention  and 
the  cessation  of  all  legal  proceedings  against  him. 
In  the  meantime,  on  17  October,  as  President  of  the 
Mechanism,  I  formally  requested  permission  from 
the  Government  of  Turkey  to  visit  Judge  Akay  to 
consult him confidentially and ascertain his conditions 
of detention.
I deeply regret that the Government of Turkey has 
thus far provided no formal communication whatsoever 
on  these  matters  to  either  the  United  Nations  or  the 
Mechanism,  and  that  the  Government  continues  to 
maintain  Judge  Akay’s  detention,  in  breach  of  the 
Statute  of  the  Mechanism  and  of  Turkey’s  obligation 
to  cooperate  with  the  Mechanism  in  accordance  with 
paragraph 9 of Security Council resolution 1966 (2010). 
I  likewise  regret  that,  as  a  result  of  Judge  Akay’s 
detention,  the  will  of  the  Assembly  that  he  discharge 
judicial  functions  for 
the  Mechanism,  consistent 
with  the  provisions  of  the  Statute  pursuant  to  which 
he  was  elected  and  then  appointed  to  a  new  term,  is 
concurrently being frustrated.
As  Judge  Akay’s  detention  becomes  increasingly 
prolonged,  its  effects  on  the  Mechanism’s  ability 
to  perform  its  core  mandate  become  ever  more 
pronounced,  as  this  detention  has  materially  impeded 
the  Mechanism’s  ability  to  perform  one  of  its  most 
fundamental  functions:  to  judicially  determine,  in 
accordance with the law, matters going to an individual’s 
responsibility for the most serious international crimes. 
Absent  clear  understanding  of  his  conditions  of 
detention and a response to my request for authorization 
to  visit  Judge  Akay,  my  concern  for  my  judicial 
colleague’s  welfare  from  a  humanitarian  perspective 
likewise becomes all the stronger. I therefore call upon 
the Government of Turkey, consistent with its binding 
international  obligations  under  Chapter  VII  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations, to immediately release 
Judge Akay from detention and enable him to resume 
his lawfully-assigned judicial functions.
In discharging our mandates to pursue justice and 
accountability  for  the  most  serious  crimes  known  to 
humankind,  international  criminal  tribunals,  such  as 
the  Mechanism,  serve  the  interests  of  all  States  and 
their  peoples.  At  the  same  time,  however,  and  as  the 
past 25 years have demonstrated, international criminal 
tribunals are fully dependent both on the cooperation of 
States and on States’ respect for the international legal 
framework applicable to such institutions. Without such 
cooperation  and  respect,  international  courts  cannot 
ensure  their  independent  operation,  wherever  around 
the  world  court  functions  may  be  exercised,  and  they 
therefore cannot carry out the vital mandates entrusted 
to them.
I  have  every  confidence  that  the  Government  of 
Turkey  shares  this  common  interest  in  enabling  the 
Mechanism  to  function  efficiently  and  effectively,  in 
accordance  with  its  mandate  and  with  applicable  law, 
and  that  the  Government  will,  without  further  delay, 
take the necessary steps with respect to the situation I 
have just described towards that end.
Mr.  Braun  (Germany),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The resolution of this matter is not only critically 
important  for  the  Mechanism;  it  is  also  essential 
for  all  of  us  if  we  are  to  ensure  that  United  Nations 
institutions  are  able  to  carry  out  their  mandates  in 
accordance  with  the  law  and  without  interference. 
It is therefore essential for all of us if we are to work 
together to bring about an era of accountability based 
upon  and  enshrining  respect  for  the  rule  of  law,  for 
which  judicial  independence  is  fundamental.  It  is 
essential for all of us who wish to be able to say that we 
have done all that we can to end impunity for horrific 
crimes in violation of international law and to seek to 
bring about a world in which the highest humanitarian 
principles are upheld. But to accomplish all of this, it 
is essential that all Members of the United Nations, in 
addressing  vital  requests  from  Chapter  VII  tribunals, 
act in accordance with good faith, the duty to cooperate 
and unimpeachable due process.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Chaboureau  (European  Union)  (spoke  in 
French):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
European  Union  (EU)  and  its  member  States.  The 
candidate  countries  of  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Montenegro,  Serbia  and  Albania;  the 
country  of  the  Stabilization  and  Association  Process 
and  potential  candidate  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina; 
6/16 
16-37174
09/11/2016 
A/71/PV.44
Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova align themselves 
with this statement.
We reaffirm our unwavering support for the work 
of the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia 
(ICTY).  We  commend  the  ICTY  for  its  achievements 
and  invaluable  contributions  to  our  shared  goal  of 
ending 
international  crimes 
committed  since  1991  in  the  territory  of  the  former 
Yugoslavia.  We  thank  President  Agius  for  his  report 
and commend him for his efforts aimed at completing 
the work of the ICTY.
impunity  for  serious 
The  ICTY  has  played  a  key  role  in  strengthening 
the rule of law and promoting long-term stability and 
reconciliation  in  the  former  Yugoslavia.  Since  its 
establishment, the ICTY has embodied the need to fight 
impunity and the international community’s refusal to 
allow the perpetrators of the most serious international 
crimes to escape justice. The Tribunal played a forward-
looking role in establishing jurisprudence in this field, 
paving the way for the International Criminal Court.
We welcome the fact that each organ of the ICTY 
continued to undertake the necessary measures to ensure 
completion of the Tribunal’s mandate by the end of 2017. 
We value the fact that the ICTY has been taking steps 
to ensure the continued smooth handover of functions 
to the Mechanism for International Criminal Tribunals. 
This  harmonious  transition  process  is  important  in 
order  for  the  Mechanism  to  carry  on  and  protect  the 
work of the Tribunal. We note with satisfaction that the 
ICTY is committed to completing its proceedings in an 
efficient and timely manner, without compromising the 
right to a fair trial.
We note that at the closure of the reporting period, 
one  trial  and  one  appeal  are  pending,  with,  in  all, 
161  individuals  being  indicted  and  held  accountable. 
We  praise  all  the  Tribunal’s  organs  for  having  taken 
measures  to  prevent  and  address  the  impact  of  staff 
attrition. We note that the ICTY Office of the Prosecutor 
has  acknowledged  the  assistance  it  received  from  the 
European  Union  and  its  member  States,  and  we  will 
continue  to  support  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor.  We 
recall that States’ responsibility to cooperate with the 
ICTY remains crucial for it to be able to complete its 
mandate,  particularly  with  a  view  to  bringing  those 
indicted to international justice.
Completing  the  process  of  rendering  justice  for 
crimes  committed  during  the  conflicts  in  the  former 
Yugoslavia is an essential contribution to lasting peace, 
accountability  and  the  rule  of  law.  Full  and  complete 
cooperation  with  the  ICTY  is  therefore  an  essential 
condition for the Stabilization and Association Process 
in the Western Balkans and for membership in the EU. 
We commend the ICTY for its work on strengthening the 
capacity of national authorities to handle the remaining 
war  crimes  cases  effectively  and  we  call  on  all  the 
States of the region to make progress in the processes 
of  investigation  and  prosecution  in  the  context  of  the 
transition from the ICTY to national courts.
We  welcome  the  fact  that  the  Joint  EU-ICTY 
Training  Project  for  National  Prosecutors  and  Young 
Professionals  from  the  former  Yugoslavia  remains  a 
central  component  of  the  efforts  made  by  the  Office 
of  the  Prosecutor  to  build  national  capacity  in  the 
national justice sectors in order to ensure an efficient 
transition from the ICTY to national courts mandated 
to  prosecute  war  crimes.  We  praise  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor  for  having  shared  the  lessons  learned  and 
best practices from its work with national counterparts 
working  across  a  range  of  criminal  justice  sectors  in 
various  parts  of  the  world.  This  is  important  for  the 
Tribunal’s  legacy  and  for  the  domestic  capacity  to 
adjudicate war crimes.
In its Stabilization and Association Process for the 
Western  Balkans,  the  EU  is  increasingly  underlining 
the  importance  of  local  ownership  for  handling  war 
crimes  cases  in  line  with  the  need  to  fight  impunity. 
In  this  regard,  direct  budgetary  support  from  the  EU 
to  domestic  courts  prosecuting  war  crimes,  which 
has  been  in  place  in  some  Western  Balkan  countries 
since  2013,  complements  efforts  undertaken  to  build 
national  capacities  in  addressing  the  backlog  of  war 
crimes cases.
We note that the Office of the Prosecutor continued 
to  promote  improved  regional  cooperation  between 
States of the former Yugoslavia in judicial matters and 
welcome the fact that meaningful results were achieved 
in  this  regard,  even  though,  as  the  President  of  the 
ICTY stated in his assessment and report,
“[t]he pace of national prosecutions is still not yet 
commensurate with the backlog of cases remaining 
to be completed”(S/2016/454, annex I, para. 25).
We  call  on  the  States  of  the  former  Yugoslavia  to 
continue  regional  cooperation  in  criminal  matters,  in 
accordance with the rules and principles of international 
law, including international criminal law.
16-37174
7/16
A/71/PV.44 
09/11/2016
On  the  Mechanism  for  International  Criminal 
Tribunals,  the  EU  and  its  member  States  thank 
President  Meron  for  his  report  (see  A/71/262)  and 
commend him for his efforts to advance the work of the 
Mechanism. We welcome the fact that the Mechanism 
is increasingly assuming responsibility for all aspects 
of the work of the ICTY, together with the activities of 
the Arusha branch.
The  EU  and  its  member  States  welcome  the 
development  by  the  Mechanism  of  procedures  and 
policies that build upon the best practices of the ICTY 
and of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda 
(ICTR).  We  commend  the  efforts  of  the  Mechanism 
to  streamline  operations  and  reduce  costs.  The  EU 
and  its  member  States  are  aware  that,  as  mentioned 
in  President  Meron’s  report,  further  accountability 
for  crimes  committed  in  Rwanda  and  the  former 
Yugoslavia depends on national justice systems which 
will benefit from the expertise and evidence from the 
Office of the Prosecutor. The EU and its member States 
are grateful to States that are enforcing sentences, and 
they call on all States to continue existing cooperation 
in the enforcement of sentences of the ICTY, the ICTR 
and  the  Mechanism  or  to  conclude  agreements  with 
the  Mechanism  in  order  to  increase  its  enforcement 
capacity.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States  will 
continue to support both the principle of international 
criminal justice and its essential role in achieving lasting 
peace,  accountability  and  the  rule  of  law.  We  call  on 
all States to cooperate with the International Tribunal 
for the Former Yugoslavia and the Mechanism, in full 
compliance  with  their  obligations  under  the  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions.  It  is  important  that  the 
knowledge gained and the lessons learned in the fight 
against impunity not be forgotten.
Ms. Bird (Australia): I have the honour of speaking 
today on behalf of Canada, New Zealand and my own 
country, Australia.
Canada, Australia and New Zealand (CANZ) wish 
to take this opportunity to reaffirm our strong support 
for  the  International  Criminal  Tribunals,  for  the 
important work that continues before the International 
Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), 
for  that  completed  by  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR), and for the essential role 
of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals in carrying forward the unprecedented legacy 
of both.
their  establishment, 
Viewed  through  a  lens  spanning  more  than  20 
years  since 
the  exceptional 
contribution of the Tribunals is clear. The significance 
of their legacy for the practice of international criminal 
law  and  for  ending  impunity  cannot  be  overstated. 
Administering  justice  in  cases  involving  some  of 
the  most  horrific  crimes  in  recent  history,  they  have 
added breadth and depth to international criminal law 
jurisprudence. Theirs is a concrete example of how the 
international  community  can  realize  accountability 
for serious international crimes committed in complex 
conflict situations.
We note that, while the ICTR has now completed 
its work and is closed, eight fugitives remain at large. 
If apprehended, three of the fugitives will be tried by 
the Residual Mechanism and five of the fugitives will, 
pursuant to the referral by the ICTR Prosecutor, be tried 
by Rwanda. It is important that those individuals also 
have their day in Court, and therefore we urge States to 
cooperate to ensure their arrest and surrender.
CANZ  acknowledges  the  continued  efforts  of  the 
ICTY  to  complete  its  work,  all  the  while  ensuring 
that  fundamental  procedural  safeguards  are  met.  We 
commend  in  particular  the  cooperation  between  the 
Tribunal  and  the  international  community  that  has 
resulted in the fact that there are no fugitives at large 
from  the  ICTY,  which,  in  turn,  is  a  testament  to  the 
fact that those accused of serious international crimes 
might be able to run, but, if we work together, they will 
not be able to hide from justice.
While the trials and appeals of the ICTY are nearing 
an  end,  important  work  remains.  In  that  context, 
we  are  concerned  that  staff  attrition  is  an  increasing 
challenge  for  the  ICTY  and  that  the  loss  of  senior 
staff  and  their  extensive  case-specific  knowledge  has 
resulted in delays. We encourage the United Nations to 
look  at  creative  solutions  to  this  challenge,  including 
the  consideration  of  an  incentives  structure.  We  also 
encourage the ICTY to continue in its efforts to ensure 
that its remaining judicial proceedings make progress 
both efficiently and effectively.
CANZ  wishes  to  reiterate  its  support  for  the 
December  2010  decision  of  the  Security  Council  to 
establish  the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for 
Criminal Tribunals. The Mechanism has a critical role 
to  play  in  completing  trials  and  appeals,  protecting 
8/16 
16-37174
09/11/2016 
A/71/PV.44
witnesses,  enforcing  sentences,  providing  assistance 
to national jurisdictions and maintaining the Tribunal 
archives.  We  welcome  the  smooth  handover  from 
the  ICTR  to  the  Mechanism,  as  well  as  the  ICTY’s 
demonstrated  commitment  to  ensuring  the  effective 
transfer  of  its  remaining  activities  to  the  Residual 
Mechanism, 
the  Tribunal’s 
completion strategy.
in  accordance  with 
One issue on the Mechanism’s agenda of particular 
importance to CANZ is the need to engage in dialogue to 
develop options for addressing the plight of the persons 
acquitted  and  released  by  the  ICTR  who  need  to  be 
relocated from Arusha. We welcome the Mechanism’s 
efforts to address this issue, and welcome as well news 
that the number of persons in this difficult situation has 
been reduced. We encourage States to continue to try 
to  find  workable  solutions  to  address  the  situation  of 
these individuals.
As with the ICTR, the successful completion of the 
ICTY’s  work,  and  the  Tribunals’  ultimate  legacy  for 
international  criminal  justice,  is  dependent,  in  large 
part, on the individual and collective efforts of Member 
States. For our part, Australia, Canada and New Zealand 
will continue to offer our full cooperation and support 
to  the  ICTY  and  to  the  Residual  Mechanism  in  order 
to give practical effect to our steadfast commitment to 
international criminal justice.
The  Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to welcome and acknowledge the presence 
in  our  midst  today  of  three  members  of  the  Indian 
Parliament,  namely,  Mr.  Palani  Gounder  Nagarajan, 
Mrs. Ratna De Nag and Mr. Gajendrasingh Shekhawat.
Mr. Obradović (Serbia): It is my honour to address 
the  General  Assembly  today  as  the  representative  of 
the Republic of Serbia. I would like to welcome Judge 
Carmel Agius, President of the International Criminal 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), and Judge 
Theodor Meron, President of the International Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals, and thank them for 
their annual reports (see A/71/263 and A/71/262).
Before I proceed, I would like to note that Serbia 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  on  this  subject 
today by the observer of the European Union.
International  courts  and  tribunals  can  hardly 
be  expected  to  achieve  their  objectives  without  the 
cooperation  and  support  of  the  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations.  In  that  respect,  my  country’s 
cooperation with and support for the Tribunal and the 
Mechanism have been very important indeed. All along, 
Serbia has consistently complied with its international 
obligations,  and  no  request  made  of  it  has  remained 
unaddressed. It has surrendered the greatest number of 
persons accused by the Tribunal, including the highest-
ranking Government officials, and has had an extensive 
role  in  making  sure  that  no  fugitive  indicted  for  core 
international crimes is now on the loose.
Serbia  also  provided  the  ICTY  with  important 
evidence.  It  received  3,505  requests  for  assistance 
concerning  access  to  documents,  State  archives  and 
witnesses  —  2,177  from  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor 
and 1,328 from defence counsel teams — and there are 
no  pending  cases,  except  for  those  in  which  requests 
have been issued only very recently. Serbia carried out 
all  the  orders  of  the  judicial  chambers  for  delivering 
subpoenae ad testificandum in time. All witnesses for 
whom waivers in respect of State, military or official 
secrets  were  requested  were  allowed  to  testify  freely. 
All  requests  for  witness  protection  in  the  territory  of 
Serbia were complied with. All conditions under which 
the Tribunal ordered the provisional release of accused 
persons were honoured and monitored by the relevant 
Government agencies, and in all those cases the accused 
were  returned  to  ICTY  detention,  in  accordance  with 
the Tribunal’s orders and decisions.
However,  the  recent  delay  in  cooperation  in  the 
matter  of  the  Trial  Chamber’s  arrest  warrants  issued 
against three individuals indicted in a case of contempt 
of court resulted from a decision of the High Court in 
Belgrade  dated  18  May  2016.  The  Court  decided  that 
the legal conditions for the execution of the Tribunal’s 
warrants  had  not  been  met  in  that  case,  on  the  basis 
of  the  stipulation  in  the  domestic  law  on  cooperation 
with  the  ICTY  that  provides  that  only  indictments 
for  core  statutory  crimes  —  namely,  grave  breaches 
of  the  Geneva  Conventions  of  1949,  violations  of  the 
laws or customs of war, genocide, and crimes against 
humanity — can constitute legal grounds for executing 
ICTY arrest warrants, while an indictment for contempt 
of court, which is not a crime under the ICTY statute, 
does not. The High Court decision does not, however, 
stand  in  the  way  of  Serbia’s  cooperation  with  the 
ICTY and its resolve to help the Tribunal accomplish 
its mission.
Since  2009,  Serbia  has  pleaded  with  the  United 
Nations  to  sign  an  agreement  with  the  Tribunal  on 
the enforcement of sentences in its penal institutions. 
16-37174
9/16
A/71/PV.44 
09/11/2016
Yet  despite  the  fact  that  my  country  signed  such  an 
agreement  with  the  International  Criminal  Court 
in  2011,  no  progress  has  been  made  on  a  similar 
agreement with the ICTY, nor have the relevant organs 
of the United Nations accorded proper attention to the 
humanitarian aspect of the request. It is clear that the 
May 1993 recommendation of the Secretary-General to 
the Security Council to the effect that the enforcement 
of  sentences  should  take  place  outside  the  territory 
of  the  former  Yugoslavia  remains  in  place.  However, 
although  that  position  may  have  been  considered 
justified in 1993, when the former Yugoslavia was riven 
by war and experienced grave breaches of international 
humanitarian law, it is clear that the logic behind, and 
justification  for,  this  recommendation  are  no  longer 
valid today.
in 
is  not  rooted 
Serbia’s  request  is  motivated  by  the  following 
considerations.  The  treatment  of  convicted  persons 
varies  from  country  to  country  and  depends  on  the 
specific  conditions  of  incarceration.  The  difference, 
however, 
the  Trial  Chambers’ 
decisions.  The 
relevant  United  Nations  organs 
would  be  hard  pressed  to  explain  why  two  persons 
sentenced  to  imprisonment  for  identical  terms  would 
serve  their  sentences  under  different  conditions,  nor 
could  the  United  Nations  organs  provide  a  rationale 
for  such  inconsistency.  In  some  cases,  the  convicted 
persons,  most  often  politicians,  army  generals  and 
other  Government  officials,  are  accorded  no  special 
treatment to reflect the specific nature of their previous 
responsibilities. 
Many  of  these  persons  serve  their  sentences  in 
penitentiaries  that  are  thousands  of  kilometres  away 
from their country and their society. As a result, they 
do not understand the language or culture of the prison 
community in which they find themselves, and many of 
them do not receive regular visits from their families. 
That  makes  them  doubly  isolated  —  from  outside 
society  and  from  their  fellow  prison  inmates.  These 
persons often mistrust recommendations for treatment 
or therapy simply because they do not understand the 
language.  Furthermore,  they  receive  no  organized 
legal aid consistent with the specific procedures of the 
jurisdiction where they had been convicted.
The  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Serbia  is 
ready  to  take  responsibility  for  the  enforcement  of 
sentences  passed  by  the  ICTY,  accept  international 
monitoring and provide guarantees that no early release 
will  be  allowed  without  prior  authorization  from  the 
Mechanism. My Government will raise this issue in the 
Security Council at its December meeting on the ICTY 
completion strategy.
In  conclusion,  let  me  point  out  that  Serbia  has 
achieved significant results in the domestic prosecution 
of the grave breaches of international humanitarian law 
perpetrated  during  the  armed  conflict  in  the  former 
Yugoslavia.  Proceedings  in  these  cases  take  place 
without  discrimination  based  on  the  national,  ethnic 
or  religious  origin  of  the  perpetrator  or  the  victim. 
We must not be deterred in our efforts to bring about 
reconciliation and cooperation, which includes through 
trying those responsible for crimes in domestic courts. 
The victims deserve justice. 
Serbia will continue its cooperation with both the 
ICTY and the Mechanism.
Mrs.  Biden  Owens  (United  States  of  America): 
The United States thanks President Meron for his report 
on the work of the International Residual Mechanism 
for  Criminal  Tribunals  (see  A/71/262)  and  for  his 
leadership  and  contributions  to  advancing  justice  for 
victims of the worst atrocities committed in the former 
Yugoslavia and Rwanda. We also thank President Agius 
for his leadership of the International Criminal Tribunal 
for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY). The diligence and 
determination  of  jurists  at  these  Tribunals  to  bring 
to  justice  those  responsible  for  committing  the  worst 
crimes known to humankind — genocide, war crimes 
and  crimes  against  humanity  —  serve  as  a  model  for 
future international criminal-justice institutions and as 
a  warning  to  potential  perpetrators  that  there  can  be 
no impunity for atrocity crimes. It is a special honour 
for me in particula, to participate in today’s important 
debate as the representative of the United States.
With  regard  to  the  work  of  the  ICTY,  the  United 
States  continues  to  support  the  Tribunal’s  important 
work in moving thoroughly and expeditiously forward 
to render verdicts in cases that serve the broader needs 
of justice, while protecting the rights of the accused. We 
have confidence that the ICTY can meet its commitment 
of completing its work by the end of 2017. Accordingly, 
the United States would like to reiterate the importance 
of the full cooperation of all States concerned with the 
ICTY, including with respect to the execution of arrest 
warrants issued by the ICTY for three individuals in a 
contempt case.
Turning  now 
International  Residual 
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals,  the  United  States 
to 
the 
10/16 
16-37174
09/11/2016 
A/71/PV.44
commends  the  Mechanism’s  efforts  to  assist  national 
jurisdictions.  The  pursuit  of  justice  for  victims  in 
Rwanda  and  the  former  Yugoslavia  must  not  end 
with  the  closure  of  the  ICTY  and  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR).  While  both 
the ICTR and the ICTY have successfully tried many 
high-level  perpetrators,  further  accountability  for  the 
crimes committed now depends upon fair and effective 
trials  for  mid-  and  low-level  perpetrators  in  national 
courts.  The  United  States  recognizes  the  great  depth 
of expertise and breadth of evidence that the Tribunal 
counsel, judges and staff can bring to bear in assisting 
national  prosecutions,  and  supports  the  Mechanism’s 
efforts to assist national justice sectors.
The  United  States  furthermore  supports 
the 
Mechanism’s  giving  high  priority  to  the  locating  and 
arrest  of  the  remaining  fugitives  from  the  ICTR.  The 
international community must not relent in the pursuit 
of  these  defendants,  whose  names  and  associated 
heinous allegations bear repeating. 
Fulgence Kayishema is accused of orchestrating the 
massacre of thousands. Charles Sikubwabo is accused 
of instigating massacres at a church. Aloys Ndimbati, 
a former mayor, is accused of being directly involved 
in  these  massacres.  Augustin  Bizimana,  the  former 
Defence Minister of the interim Rwandan Government, 
is alleged to have controlled the nation’s armed forces 
in  preparing  and  planning  for  the  genocide  campaign 
and  in  preparing  lists  of  people  to  be  killed.  Charles 
Ryandikayo  is  alleged  to  have  participated  in  the 
massacre of thousands of men, women and children who 
had congregated in a church, and directed militants and 
gendarmes  to  attack  the  church  with  guns,  grenades 
and other weapons. Pheneas Munyarugarama, a former 
lieutenant  colonel  in  the  Rwandan  Army,  allegedly 
helped to direct and take part in the systematic killing 
of Tutsi refugees fleeing the fighting; Félicien Kabuga, 
the  alleged  main  financier  and  backer  of  the  political 
and militia groups that committed the genocide, is also 
accused of transporting the death squad in his company’s 
trucks.  Finally,  Protais  Mpiranya,  Commander  of  the 
Rwandan  Presidential  Guard,  allegedly  directed  his 
soldiers to kill the sitting Rwandan Prime Minister and 
the 10 United Nations peacekeepers guarding her home.
We  must  continue  to  recall  those  names  and 
deeds  until  each  and  every  one  of  those  men  stands 
to  answer  for  their  alleged  actions.  Recognizing  that 
State cooperation will be essential for their capture, the 
United  States  remains  unwavering  in  its  commitment 
to ensuring that the eight fugitives are apprehended and 
brought to justice. We continue to offer a reward of up 
to  $5  million  for  information  leading  to  the  arrest  or 
transfer of the fugitives.
The United States would like to express its concern 
with respect to the impact of Judge Akay’s detention on 
the important work of the Mechanism. Judge Akay was 
arrested during a period of time when he was working 
on the Mechanism’s case. In that regard, we recall that 
the  statute  of  the  Mechanism  provides  for  judges  to 
work remotely, except for sittings or as directed by the 
President. With that in mind, we hope that the matter can 
be resolved expeditiously and in a transparent manner.
As  the  Mechanism  commences  its  next  phase 
of  operations,  we  commend  President  Meron  for  his 
judicious leadership in ensuring the seamless transfer 
of  functions  from  the  ICTY  and  the  ICTR  to  the 
Mechanism.  Although  the  size  and  functions  of  the 
Mechanism  will  diminish  over  time,  a  great  deal  of 
work remains to be done, and its importance remains 
as central as ever.
Because of these Tribunals, the victims of horrific 
atrocities  have  received  a  meaningful  measure  of 
justice,  and  the  international  community  has  greatly 
advanced  international  peace  and  security  via  justice 
and  accountability  for  atrocities  committed  over  the 
past  20  years.  The  successful  completion  of  the  work 
of the Mechanism will serve to prove that justice is not 
a distraction from the work of achieving international 
peace and security, but the essence of it.
Mr. Drobnjak (Croatia): Croatia aligns itself with 
the  statement  delivered  earlier  today  by  the  observer 
of the European Union. I will add a few points in my 
national capacity.
  First  of  all,  allow  me  to  welcome  the  President 
of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former 
Yugoslavia (ICTY), Judge Agius, and to thank him for 
his  report  (see  A/71/263).  We  commend  him  as  well 
as  Prosecutor  Brammertz  for  their  important  work 
and  for  the  continued  efforts  of  the  ICTY  to  ensure 
accountability and promote the fight against impunity.
During  the  reporting  period,  the  Tribunal  also 
saw  a  change  in  leadership.  Allow  me  now  to  pay 
tribute  to  the  former  ICTY  President  and  current 
President of the International Residual Mechanism for 
Criminal  Tribunals,  Judge  Meron,  whose  leadership 
ensured  important  progress  in  ending  impunity  and 
16-37174
11/16
A/71/PV.44 
09/11/2016
pivotal  achievements  in  the  proper  interpretation  and 
application of international humanitarian law.
We welcome the fact that the Residual Mechanism is 
assuming responsibility for all aspects of the Tribunal’s 
important work, and we praise the continuing progress 
in that regard. Croatia stands firm in its position that 
full  cooperation  with  the  ICTY  must  be  ensured  and 
that both the Tribunal and the Mechanism must receive 
all the necessary support for completing their mandates 
in time.
Croatia  carefully  follows  all  remaining  cases 
before the Tribunal and expects their swift and efficient 
conclusion. We strongly believe that this final chapter 
in  the  work  of  the  Tribunal,  a  body  that  irreversibly 
shaped  contemporary  international  criminal  justice 
and  our  attitude  towards  impunity,  will  live  up  to  its 
expectations, in particular with regard to the scrupulous 
interpretation  and  appropriate 
implementation  of 
international humanitarian and human rights law.
in 
the 
law 
Croatia welcomes the fact that all 161 individuals 
the  ICTY  for  serious  violations  of 
indicted  by 
international  humanitarian 
former 
Yugoslavia have been accounted for. At the same time, 
regrettably, not all of them were prosecuted to the point 
of  delivery  of  a  final  judicial  verdict,  as  was  seen  in 
the notorious case of Slobodan Milošević and the more 
recent  case  of  Goran  Hadžić,  which  was  terminated 
on  22  July  following  the  death  of  the  accused.  As  a 
result,  full  justice  for  their  countless  victims  was  not 
properly served.
Full  cooperation  with  the  ICTY  is  of  paramount 
importance, as much for the credibility of the Tribunal 
as for its efficiency. We therefore share the Tribunal’s 
serious concerns about the continued non-cooperation 
of  Serbia.  As  President  Meron,  President  Agius  and 
Prosecutor  Brammertz  have  reported  to  the  Security 
Council  more  than  once,  and  as  stated  in  the  report 
before us, arrest warrants for three indictees have been 
pending execution since January 2015. This matter must 
not fade from our attention until it is fully resolved.
Croatia 
is  deeply  concerned  about  parallel 
developments  outlined  in  the  report,  such  as  the 
failure of the Serbian judiciary to enforce the sentence 
imposed by the State Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
or  “the  continued  glorification  of  war  criminals  in 
Serbia”  (A/71/263,  para.  52).  We  have  said  it  before, 
and I shall repeat it here today: convicted war criminals 
have no place on ceremonial stages and in public and 
political  life.  They  belong  on  the  margins  of  society 
as  an  eternal  reminder  of  failed  policies  that  led  to 
unspeakable atrocities.
Mr. Pecsteen de Buytswerve (Belgium), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
In  the  debate  in  the  Sixth  Committee,  Croatia 
carefully elaborated its position regarding Serbia’s law 
on  the  organization  and  competence  of  Government 
authorities in war crimes proceedings. I would therefore 
simply add that the law, which in our opinion is neither 
universal  nor  ancillary  nor  politically  neutral  in  its 
application, hinders successful regional cooperation in 
criminal matters.
Under  its  completion  strategy,  the  ICTY  has 
transferred  a  number  of  cases  to  national  courts.  In 
parallel,  domestic  prosecutors  and  courts  can  also 
initiate  cases  without  any  involvement  by  the  ICTY. 
In  that  regard,  it  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to 
refrain from engaging in any form of manipulation of 
investigation or prosecution processes. The work of the 
judiciary  must  remain  impartial  and  independent  and 
remain outside and above daily politics, which carries 
particular significance in the prosecution of war crimes.
Croatia is considering with interest a proposal for a 
series of Tribunal legacy and closing events developed 
within the Office of the President and in consultation 
with representatives of the Registry, the Office of the 
Prosecutor  and  the  Association  of  Defence  Counsel. 
Croatia is ready to take part in those events, engage in 
discussions on how best to ensure the Tribunal’s lasting 
legacy and share its own experiences with the Tribunal.
As  stated  in  previous  debates  on  this  matter,  the 
important  legacy  of  the  ICTY  is  not  entirely  without 
flaw or controversy. Nevertheless, that fact should in no 
way  tarnish  the  Tribunal’s  overall  record  and  historic 
legacy  in  the  area  of  international  criminal  justice. 
Rather,  they  should  serve  as  an  important  lessons 
learned  for  the  benefit  of  other  stakeholders  in  this 
field, in particular the International Criminal Court.
In  conclusion,  we  reiterate  the  importance  of  full 
cooperation  with  the  Tribunal  and  express  our  firm 
support for its work. At the same time, we look towards 
the completion of the ICTY mandate, the timely closure 
of the Tribunal and for smooth and efficient transition 
processes for both branches of the Mechanism.
Mr. Barros Melet (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): Chile 
would like to reiterate its appreciation for the work of 
12/16 
16-37174
09/11/2016 
A/71/PV.44
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia and the International Residual Mechanism 
for Criminal Tribunals. We are aware of their notable 
contributions to international justice. That is especially 
reflected in their struggle for accountability, for an end 
to  impunity  and  for  the  progressive  development  of 
international law.
Our sincere  thanks go to President  Carmel Agius 
and  President  Theodor  Meron  for  their  excellent 
leadership,  which  is  reflected  in  the  detailed  reports 
(see  A/71/263  and  A/71/262)  presented  to  us  today 
in  the  General  Assembly.  We  note  that  the  activities 
carried out by those bodies during the reporting period 
demonstrate their commitment to complete the pending 
procedures  expeditiously  and  in  accordance  with  the 
rules of due process.
Likewise,  we  note  that  the  Tribunal  continues  to 
successfully transition its functions to the International 
Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals, with the 
assistance of the United Nations Office of Legal Affairs 
and the Informal Group on International Tribunals of 
the Security Council, chaired by Uruguay.
However, we believe that it is necessary to join in 
the  urgent  call  for  greater  international  cooperation, 
especially  in  those  situations  where  the  Office  of 
the  Prosecutor  has  highlighted  State  inaction  in  the 
execution  of  arrest  warrants  issued  by  the  Tribunal. 
Good  practices  in  the  field  of  international  criminal 
justice  should  be  observed  by  each  and  every  one  of 
the Members of the United Nations, without exception. 
Similarly, my country calls for correct adherence to the 
principles of universal jurisdiction and complementarity, 
on the understanding that they are fundamental for an 
international society that is rooted in the rule of law, to 
which we all aspire.
Finally,  my 
the 
implementation  of  an  appropriate  completion  strategy 
for the closure of the Tribunal, including administrative 
solutions for its human resources, in compliance with 
the  respective  mandates,  in  order  to  guarantee  the 
effectiveness and efficiency required.
supports 
country 
fully 
Mr. Manongi (United Republic of Tanzania): The 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania  welcomes  the  twenty-
third annual report (see A/71/263) of the International 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), presented 
here  today  by  the  President  of  the  Tribunal,  Judge 
Carmel Agius, whom we congratulate on his assumption 
of the presidency of the Tribunal. We also congratulate 
Judge Liu Daqun on his election as Vice-President.
the  arrangements  necessary 
We  are  gratified  that  the  judges  of  the  Appeals 
Chamber have delivered judgments in the final appeals 
in  the  Butare  case  from  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR).  That  moves  us  closer 
to  bringing  to  account  those  who  had  opened  a  dark 
chapter in the history of Rwanda, Africa and the world.
We  commend  the  efforts  by  the  Registrar  to 
coordinate 
the 
downsizing  of  the  Tribunal’s  operations  and  for 
transferring  its  responsibilities  to  the  International 
Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals  as  part 
of  its  completion  strategy.  With  the  completion  of 
the  Tribunal’s  mandate  approaching,  it  is  critical  that 
war-crimes  cases  transferred  to  national  jurisdictions 
for  prosecution  not  only  be  prosecuted  in  a  timely 
manner,  but  also  be  seen  to  be  prosecuted  fairly  and 
openly.  Furthermore,  national  offices  undertaking 
those responsibilities need to be supported in order to 
ensure accountability.
for 
We note the efforts undertaken by the Office of the 
President  and  the  Registrar  to  address  the  increasing 
challenges  of  staff  attrition  and  staff  morale  as  the 
Tribunal  winds  down  its  judicial  mandate.  While 
welcoming those efforts, we wish to advise the sharing 
of the lessons learned and best practices in the ICTY 
completion with those involved in the completion of the 
work of the ICTR. We commend the close collaboration 
between  the  Tribunal’s  Office  of  the  Prosecutor 
with  that  of  the  Prosecutor  of  the  Mechanism  as  the 
Tribunal continues to downsize posts and implement a 
resource-sharing policy.
We  appreciate  that,  as  ICTY  approaches  the  end 
of  its  life,  matters  regarding  its  legacy  in  the  former 
Yugoslavia  —  and  we  would  like  to  add,  beyond  the 
region — have assumed greater significance. We join 
in urging full cooperation with the Tribunal. To us, the 
legacies of both of the International Criminal Tribunals 
are  of  special  significance  and  an  admonition  to  the 
humanity that we all share.
The  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  also  welcomes 
the  note  by  the  Secretary-General  submitting  the 
fourth annual report (see A/71/263) of the International 
Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals. We wish 
to  commend  progress  towards  the  completion,  within 
the budget, of the construction of the new premises of 
the Mechanism in Arusha, Tanzania. In that regard, we 
16-37174
13/16
A/71/PV.44 
09/11/2016
particularly thank the Registrar, Mr. John Hocking, for 
his leadership and cooperation.
The  establishment  of  the  Mechanism  was,  among 
other  things,  intended  to  ensure  the  preservation  of 
the  legacies  of  the  Tribunals.  It  is  gratifying  that  the 
Mechanism,  operating  from  its  branch  Offices  in 
Arusha  and  in  The  Hague,  continues  to  discharge  its 
responsibilities  efficiently,  fairly  and  diligently.  It  is 
encouraging  to  note  that  coordination  undertaken  by 
the  Mechanism  with  other  tribunals  is  focusing  on 
ensuring an efficient and seamless transfer of functions 
and responsibilities.
The activities of the Office of the Prosecutor show 
the beginning of a period of intense trial and appeals 
work.  That  stage  of  litigation  will  have  its  unique 
challenges  and  requires  the  support  and  cooperation 
of  the  United  Nations  and  its  Members.  We  endorse 
continuing  efforts  to  locate  and  arrest  the  remaining 
fugitives  indicted  by  the  ICTR.  We  commend  the 
readiness  of  the  Prosecutor  to  work  with  and  support 
national  jurisdictions  in  the  litigation  of  the  cases 
referred to national prosecution.
The  report  expresses  concern  regarding  a  trend 
on the part of convicted persons to seek a review and 
possible revocation of their convictions handed down by 
the ICTR and the ICTY. Doubtlessly, such applications 
need  to  be  approached  with  great  caution  so  as  to 
prevent  frivolous  claims  and  preserve  the  integrity  of 
the  convictions  previously  made,  while  also  ensuring 
that justice is done.
It needs to be pointed out that issues pertaining to 
supporting  and  protecting  witnesses  deserve  greater 
and more humane attention. Many witnesses appearing 
before  the  Tribunals  have  also  been  victims  and  have 
suffered serious emotional and psychological impacts. 
It would be useful to ensure that their support continues 
to  be  at  the  heart  of  the  continuing  mandate  of  the 
Mechanism.  In  addition,  acquitted  persons  and  those 
who  have  served  their  sentences  have  rights  too.  The 
continued presence in Arusha of persons who have been 
acquitted or released by the judicial process but do not 
have States that would receive them must be a matter 
of  concern  to  all  of  us.  We  urge  increased  efforts  to 
ensure the relocation of those individuals and to uphold 
the equally important element of the rule of law.
Finally,  we  want  to  acknowledge  and  commend 
the  seamless  transfer  of  the  work  of  the  International 
Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda to that of the Mechanism 
following  the  closure  of  the  Tribunal  in  December 
2015. It was an effort overseen by many in Arusha, The 
Hague and New York, including the Office of the Legal 
Counsel. They all deserve our gratitude and thanks.
Mr.  Zagaynov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  We  would  like  to  thank  the  leadership  of 
the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
(ICTY)  and  the  International  Residual  Mechanism 
for  Criminal  Tribunals  for  the  reports  (see  A/71/263 
and  A/71/262)  on  their  activities  submitted  to  the 
General Assembly.
The  Russian  delegation  has  been 
following 
very  closely  information  concerning  the  costs  of 
the  proceedings  at  the  ICTY,  since,  as  we  know, 
the  Tribunal  has  gone  beyond  the  deadline  set  for 
concluding its activities in Security Council resolution 
1966 (2010). We welcome the determined commitment 
of  the  new  leadership  of  the  ICTY  to  conclude  all 
cases at the Tribunal by November 2017 and to follow 
the  recommendations  contained  in  paragraph  6  of 
the  report  on  efforts  to  prevent  delays.  However,  we 
would like to note that the issues concerning the loss 
of staff, to which that paragraph refers, cannot justify 
any  further  delays  in  the  proceedings.  Accordingly, 
the  Security  Council  will  attempt  to  facilitate  the 
smooth  functioning  of  the  ICTY.  Only  a  short  time 
ago, Security Council resolution 2306 (2016) amended 
the  Tribunal’s  Statute,  which  enabled  the  Secretary-
General to appoint a former judge of either the Tribunal 
or its counterpart for Rwanda to serve on the Tribunal’s 
Appeals  Chamber.  We  hope 
the  Tribunal’s 
management  will  shoulder  its  share  of  the  work  and 
find effective personnel solutions.
that 
The  staff  of 
the  Tribunal  and 
the  Residual 
Mechanism  are  adequately  supported 
financially 
and  materially.  Let  us  point  out,  nevertheless,  that 
various types of awards and grants are not part of the 
conditions of service at the United Nations, a fact that 
has repeatedly been brought to the Tribunal’s attention. 
With  regard  to  the  contempt  of  court  case,  initiated 
by the Tribunal in the concluding proceedings against 
Vojislav Šešelj, such charges are not part of the main 
business of the Tribunal. The statute of the ICTY does 
not cover such matters, as it was conceived in Security 
Council resolutions. Jurisdiction over such issues was 
established by the Tribunal itself through its own rules 
of procedure. In that regard, we believe that the winding 
down of the proceedings of the ICTY cannot be allowed 
to be affected by contempt of court cases.
14/16 
16-37174
09/11/2016 
A/71/PV.44
docket 
The  Residual  Mechanism’s 
grew 
significantly during the reporting period, with a first-
instance  trial  and  two  appeals  cases  before  it.  We 
would be grateful for more detailed information on the 
estimated duration of those cases and the approximate 
dates of their completion.
We  recall  that,  pursuant  to  Security  Council 
resolution 1966 (2010), the Mechanism is a temporary 
structure.  We  expect  it  to  work  as  efficiently  as 
possible  in  terms  of  upholding  the  standards  of 
the  administration  of  justice,  including  abiding  by 
deadlines  for  proceedings.  In  that  regard,  we  call  on 
the leadership of the Mechanism to make full use of the 
statute’s existing provisions.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 
take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to take note 
of  the  twenty-third  annual  report  of  the  International 
Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for 
Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law 
Committed  in  the  Territory  of  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
since 1991?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 
take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to take note of 
the fourth annual report of the International Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  A 
representative  has  asked  to  speak  in  the  exercise  of 
the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  Member  States  that 
statements  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
I now give the floor to the representative of Turkey.
Mr. Begeç (Turkey): In his briefing, Judge Meron 
mentioned  my  country  and  at  least  one  Turkish 
national. Aydin Sefa Akay is indeed a Turkish national 
who was nominated by Turkey and elected as a judge 
to the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals in 2011. His term was automatically extended 
for  a  period  of  two  years  last  June.  He  was  detained 
in Turkey following the decision of a competent court 
in  Turkey  because  of  criminal  charges  filed  against 
him, which are outside of the scope of his function as a 
judge of the Mechanism. The investigation is ongoing 
within the framework of the rule of law and in line with 
Turkish national procedures. In that regard, it is a matter 
of  regret  that  Mr.  Meron,  who  spoke  at  length  of  the 
independence  of  the  judges  of  international  tribunals 
in his statement, did not show the same sensitivity with 
regard to the independence of the judges of a Member 
State.  We  cannot  concur  with  an  approach  that  calls 
for  interference  in  the  ongoing  judicial  processes  of 
a  Member  State,  and  we  call  for  greater  respect  in 
that regard.
Immunity  based  on  United  Nations  functions 
cannot  be  used  and  abused  as  a  pretext  to  develop  or 
promote  a  culture  of  impunity.  Nobody  is  above  the 
law.  To  suggest  otherwise  is  wrong.  We  should  have 
learned  that  from  the  cases  involving  United  Nations 
mission  personnel  in  Africa.  With  regard  to  the 
alleged impediment caused to the efficient work of the 
Mechanism,  I  would  like  to  recall  in  particular,  with 
Judge Meron in mind, the provisions for filling vacancies 
among judges, which are set in the rules of procedure of 
the Mechanism. Mr. Meron has chosen solidarity with 
a fellow colleague over his responsibility to ensure the 
efficient  and  effective  functioning  of  the  Mechanism. 
He  has  purposely  not  used  the  power  vested  in  him 
by  the  Security  Council,  thereby  inevitably  putting 
himself in a position of responsibility for the delay of 
the administration of justice in the Ngirabatware case.
It  is  also  worth  emphasizing  that  Mr.  Akay  was 
assigned  to  the  management  of  the  Mechanism  by 
Mr. Meron only 10 days following the coup attempt in 
Turkey on 15 July. We therefore call on Mr. Meron to 
respect the independence of the judiciaries of Member 
States and not to use the Akay case to cover the slowness 
of  the  Mechanism’s  functioning.  He  should  rather 
use his powers to ensure the timely administration of 
justice in the Ngirabatware case.
I reiterate that no one is above the law, whether it 
be with regard to the commission of a crime, an offense 
or  a  felony.  No  act  of  terrorism,  sexual  assault  or 
murder can be condoned on the grounds of diplomatic 
immunity. We reject any effort to establish impunity on 
such a basis.
Finally, the concern expressed by the United States 
delegation must be the result of poor knowledge of the 
rules of procedure of the Mechanism, as vacancies in 
judges’  positions  can  easily  be  filled  by  invoking  the 
existing rules of procedure. Perhaps the United States 
should advise Mr. Meron in that regard.
16-37174
15/16
A/71/PV.44 
09/11/2016
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 
take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 71?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 129.
The meeting rose at 11.50 a.m.
16/16 
16-37174
