United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
49th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 29 November 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.49
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Tribute to the memory of His Excellency Mr. Fidel 
Alejandro Castro Ruz, former President of the 
Councils of State and Ministers of the Republic 
of Cuba
The President: Before we proceed to consider the 
items  on  our  agenda,  it  is  my  sad  duty  to  pay  tribute 
to the memory of the former President of the Councils 
of  State  and  Ministers  of  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  His 
Excellency Mr. Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz, who passed 
away on Friday, 25 November.
I  am  deeply  saddened  by  the  passing  of  Fidel 
Castro, and I wish to express my sincere condolences to 
his family, including his brother, President Raúl Castro, 
the Government and the people of Cuba. On behalf of 
the General Assembly, I request the representatives of 
Cuba to convey these condolences.
Fidel  Castro  was  one  of  the  iconic  leaders  of  the 
twentieth century. With a great love for his homeland 
and  the  Cuban  people,  he  dedicated  his  life  to  their 
welfare and development. A tireless advocate for equity 
in the international arena, he was an inspirational figure 
for developing countries in particular. His dedication to 
their advancement, especially in the fields of education 
and health, will be long remembered.
I  now  invite  representatives  to  stand  and  observe 
a  minute  of  silence  in  tribute  to  the  memory  of  His 
Excellency Mr. Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz.
The members of the General Assembly observed a 
minute of silence.
Agenda item 35
Question of Palestine
Report of the Committee on the Exercise of 
the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People 
(A/71/35)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/359)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/71/174)
Draft resolutions (A/71/L.18, A/71/L.19, 
A/71/L.20 and A/71/L.21)
The  President:  Today’s  meeting  takes  place  at  a 
time  when  the  Middle  East  region  is  being  rocked  by 
instability.  Brutal  conflicts  in  Syria  and  Yemen,  a 
refugee crisis that is flooding neighbouring countries, 
the  virulent  spread  of  extremism  and  terrorism,  and 
the ongoing construction of settlements on Palestinian 
territory are combining to create a highly combustible 
situation across the region. For many, the prospects for 
peace and security feel desperately out of reach. We are 
all gravely concerned about the deteriorating security 
and  humanitarian  situations  in  many  parts  of  the 
Middle East. I call on parties to make genuine efforts 
to find peaceful solutions and to cooperate closely with 
the United Nations and humanitarian agencies to enable 
them to deliver urgently needed humanitarian, food and 
medical assistance.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-40519 (E)
*1640519*
A/71/PV.49 
29/11/2016
The occupation of Palestinian territory since 1967 
continues  to  violate  key  United  Nations  principles, 
including  those  relating  to  territorial  integrity,  the 
inadmissibility  of  the  acquisition  of  territory  by  war, 
equal  rights  and  the  self-determination  of  peoples.  It 
is a situation that has reverberations around the region. 
As the Assembly has said, achieving a just, lasting and 
comprehensive settlement of the question of Palestine 
is imperative for the attainment of comprehensive and 
lasting peace and stability in the Middle East.
The  ongoing  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
peaceful settlement of the question of Palestine is clear, 
with  the  General  Assembly  repeatedly  affirming  that 
the  United  Nations  has  permanent  responsibility  with 
regard  to  the  question  of  Palestine  until  the  question 
is  resolved  in  all  aspects  and  in  accordance  with 
international  law.  To  that  end,  I  call  for  all  involved 
to urgently take concrete steps to bring an end to the 
violence, comply strictly with international law, restore 
political  trust,  build  a  climate  for  peace  and  resume 
meaningful negotiations.
That includes all leaders refraining from provocative 
actions,  incitement  and  inflammatory  rhetoric,  which 
are  incompatible  with  advancing  a  negotiated  two-
State solution and serve only to perpetuate the cycles of 
violence and conflict. It includes freezing the building 
of  Israeli  settlements  on  Palestinian  territory,  which 
the  General  Assembly  has  repeatedly  affirmed  to  be 
illegal  and  to  have  a  detrimental  impact  on  efforts  to 
resume and advance the peace process. It includes by 
respecting  the  historic  status  quo  at  the  holy  places 
of  Jerusalem,  including  Al-Haram  al-Sharif,  in  both 
words and practice. And it includes all parties taking 
confidence-building measures aimed at improving the 
situation  on  the  ground,  promoting  stability,  building 
trust and fostering the peace process.
To that end, I would like to acknowledge the work 
being undertaken by civil society to promote a peaceful 
settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine.  Despite  the 
setbacks over the years, I remain hopeful that renewed 
international  efforts  can  help  to  pave  the  way  to 
realizing the two-State solution of Israel and Palestine 
living  side  by  side  in  peace,  security  and  prosperity 
within recognized borders, based on the pre-1967 lines.
I  would  like  to  take  the  opportunity  of  today’s 
debate  to  acknowledge  the  vital  work  of  the  United 
Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  (UNRWA).  For 
over  65  years,  UNRWA  has  played  a  critical  role  in 
supporting  the  welfare  and  development  of  some 
5  million  Palestinian  refugees.  That  includes  through 
education,  health,  relief  and  social  services,  support 
for camp infrastructure, provision of microfinance and 
emergency assistance and efforts to eliminate violence 
against women and girls.
The generational impacts of the work of UNRWA 
to  support  Palestinian  refugees  cannot  be  overstated, 
and I sincerely thank the donors and hosts of UNRWA 
for their support. That support, including the responses 
to  the  emergency  appeals  of  UNRWA,  have  helped 
to  provide  education  and  opportunity  for  Palestinian 
youth, and to counter potential radicalization that has 
affected so many other populations with high levels of 
youth unemployment.
The  mandate  of  UNRWA  originates  from  the 
General Assembly, and it is therefore to those present 
that  I  turn  to  express  my  deep  concern  at  the  serious 
funding  gap  that  has  emerged  and  is  threatening  the 
ability  of  UNRWA  to  continue  its  work  in  providing 
relief to the Palestine refugees. I urge all Member States 
to respond generously and expeditiously to the efforts 
of UNRWA to fill its $74 million funding gap and to 
ensure  that  it  has  sufficient  funds  to  be  able  to  carry 
out its activities in an effective and predictable manner.
The  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  may  be  long-
standing  and  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  may 
be  complex,  but  we,  the  international  community, 
must  never  let  that  discourage  us  or  undermine  our 
commitment  to  finding  just,  lasting  and  sustainable 
peace.  As  long  as  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict 
continues,  it  poses  a  threat  to  international  peace 
and security. And so long as it continues, the lives of 
millions of Palestine people, refugees and others across 
the  region  will  be  negatively  impacted  by  unrest  and 
instability. I therefore urge all parties and stakeholders 
to  be  courageous  and  committed  to  their  efforts  to 
finding  a  lasting,  peaceful  political  solution  to  bring 
the conflict to an end.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
Senegal, who will speak on behalf of the Chair of the 
Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights 
of the Palestinian People, to introduce draft resolutions 
A/71/L.18, A/71/L.19, A/71/L.20 and A/71/L.21.
Mr. Ciss (Senegal) (spoke in French): Allow me at 
the outset to thank all delegations and you personally, 
Mr. President, for having taken such an active part in 
the special meeting of the Committee on the Exercise of 
2/25 
16-40519
29/11/2016 
A/71/PV.49
the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People marking 
the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian 
People.  The  messages  and  statements  of  support  we 
heard  this  morning,  sent  by  leaders  from  around  the 
world,  testify  in  one  voice  to  the  firm  resolve  of  the 
international  community  to  support  the  rights  of  the 
Palestinians and to reach a fair and lasting solution to 
the Palestinian question, that of two States living side 
by side in peace and security, as demanded for decades 
by  the  United  Nations  resolutions  on  the  issue.  I  also 
note that the Committee received messages of solidarity 
from the Presidents of Algeria and Sierra Leone.
Today,  we  are  here  to  debate  the  question  of 
Palestine on the sixty-ninth anniversary of the adoption 
of resolution 181 (II) on the partition of historic Palestine 
into  the  State  of  Israel  and  the  State  of  Palestine. 
However, the second country, the State of Palestine, has 
seen its independence rejected to this very day. Next year 
will not only mark seven decades of broken promises by 
the United Nations to the Palestinian people, it will also 
be the fiftieth anniversary of the occupation by Israel 
of  Palestinian  lands  and  their  inhabitants.  Those  50 
years of occupation mean 50 years of settlements and 
colonization; 50 years of annexation of East Jerusalem 
and 50 years of oppression and collective punishment 
of  Palestinians  and  their  lives,  hopes  and  future.  In 
short, it has been 50 years of the denial of basic human 
rights, amounting to a refusal to ensure liberty. That is 
the true heart of the issue of Palestine — rejecting the 
freedom of Palestinian people.
We  all  recognize  that  liberty  is  a  fundamental 
freedom  and  that  without  it,  other  rights  are  severely 
eroded or, worse yet, made meaningless. An occupying 
Power  is  not  only  required  to  ensure  the  social 
and  economic  well-being  of  the  occupied  people; 
occupation  is  also  meant  to  be  a  temporary  state  of 
affairs and not an ongoing or permanent regime, and it 
should  certainly  not  perpetually  deprive  the  occupied 
people of their freedom and right to self-determination. 
Furthermore, the occupiers, or colonizers, have always 
failed in their attempts to use the carrot and the stick 
to lead the dominated people to surrender, willingly or 
not. No one should be obliged to surrender and accept 
imprisonment, however gilded the cage may be. Freedom 
is  not  a  reward  delivered  by  a  benevolent  superior.  It 
is the fundamental and inalienable right of all peoples, 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, and it is 
the right of all nations. It is not subordinate to the desire 
of  some  third  party  or  based  on  a  certificate  of  good 
conduct or permit issued by the occupier.
Our  Committee  shall  continue  to  defend  the 
inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinians,  beginning  with 
their  right  to  self-determination.  We  are  pleased  to 
note  that  Member  States,  including  France,  Russia 
and  Egypt,  as  well  as  the  Middle  East  Quartet,  are 
also  striving  to  find  ways  to  make  progress  towards 
settling  the  Palestinian  issue  in  all  its  aspects  and 
in  a  fair  and  peaceful  manner.  We  therefore  call  for 
every effort to be made, in the name of justice, to end 
almost  half  a  century  of  occupation  and  the  drawn-
out tragedy of Palestinian refugees and to promote the 
independence  and  sovereignty  of  a  Palestinian  State 
living side by side with Israel and all its neighbours, in 
line with international law, the relevant United Nations 
resolutions, the Madrid principles and the Arab Peace 
Initiative,  which  have  long  been  the  reference  points 
and parameters for a fair and lasting solution.
We  know  and  understand  that  the  international 
community  is  facing  many  pressing  problems  and 
crises. One would think the question of Palestine would 
at least be counted among those crises, as it is a harsh 
reality  for  those  Palestinians  who  have  abandoned  all 
hope for a solution in the near future, to the extent that 
they are now seeking refuge throughout the region and 
beyond  —  to  Europe,  Asia  and  Africa.  Yet  nothing 
could be further from the truth. Let us consider for a 
moment  the  desperate  situation  of  Palestinians  in  the 
Gaza Strip or the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, 
or  of  Palestinian  refugees  in  Syria  in  this  period  of 
serious  conflict,  Lebanon  or  elsewhere  in  the  region. 
The absence of hope and political prospects that might 
mitigate this desolate reality and ensure the realization 
of rights that have been denied for so long, has had a 
profound,  destabilizing  impact  and  makes  the  status 
quo clearly untenable.
Furthermore, when we see violent extremist groups 
threaten our planet by carrying out attacks throughout 
the world that provoke flows of refugees to our borders 
and poison the hearts and spirits of the youth, we cannot 
doubt that the primary tool used by such groups is the 
open wound of the serious injustice in Palestine, and that 
the international community, represented by the United 
Nations, remains incapable of resolving the situation in 
spite  of  all  the  words  spoken  and  commitments  made 
down the years.
16-40519
3/25
A/71/PV.49 
29/11/2016
Each  day  that  passes  in  this  climate  of  injustice; 
every  photo  of  the  colonization  and  usurpation  of 
Palestinian  lands;  every  video  showing  an  Israeli  hit 
a child or humiliate a Palestinian man or woman; and 
every  extension  of  the  blockade  that  Israel  continues 
to impose mercilessly on Gaza only fuels the narrative 
of extremist groups, and helps such groups the Islamic 
State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  and  Al-Qaeda  to  recruit 
marginalized and desperate young people. The conflict 
around  the  Palestinian  issue  is  not  an  issue  related 
to just a few people and never will be. It is not just a 
regional issue; it is global problem whose impact is felt 
by us all no matter where we live.
Beyond  the  pragmatic  questions,  allow  me  to 
reassert before this Organization, which is responsible 
at  the  global  level  for  protecting  and  ensuring  that 
human rights are respected, that no individual is free 
unless all individuals are free. The life of Palestinians is 
priceless, to use a trending slogan. As we commemorate 
the adoption of resolution 181 (II) and as we approach 
the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  Israeli  occupation  and 
the seventieth anniversary of the partition of Palestine, 
we  must  recommit  ourselves  to  implementing  the 
provisions  that  have  been  adopted  over  the  decades 
by  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council 
to  promote  the  realization  of  the  rights  of  Palestinian 
people and a just, lasting, comprehensive and peaceful 
solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which is at 
the heart of the Arab-Israeli conflict.
The Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  will  continue  to  do 
its  utmost  to  defend  those  rights  and  move  towards 
a  peaceful  settlement  of  the  conflict.  We  will  do  so 
in  cooperation  with  our  partners:  Member  States, 
international  organizations  and  members  of  civil 
society.  We  reaffirm  that  our  door  is  open  and  that 
we  are  happy  to  hear  all  points  of  view.  It  is  through 
communication, not through confrontation, that we will 
resolve the Palestinian question.
We  will  also  continue  to  invite  to  our  meetings 
and  events  all  Member  States,  including  Israel,  and 
civil-society  organizations  on  both  sides,  Israeli  and 
Palestinian alike. The Committee is proud to help those 
actors  meet,  debate  and  exchange  ideas  in  a  secure 
framework,  to  work  together  to  promote  peace  and 
justice.  By  failing  to  take  part  in  our  debates,  some 
Members  of  the  Organization  only  ensure  that  their 
points of view will not be taken into acount. We therefore 
call on all delegations to support the diplomatic, legal 
and political activities of the Committee in fulfilment 
of its mandate, rather than spread unfounded lies.
I  shall  now  introduce  to  the  General  Assembly 
the  four  draft  resolutions  adopted  by  the  Committee 
under  this  agenda  item:  draft  resolutions  A/71/L.18, 
A/71/L.19,  A/71/L.20  and  A/71/L.21.  The  approval  of 
the  Committee  followed  consultations  with  relevant 
regional groups.
The first three draft resolutions concern the work 
of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  the  Division  for 
Palestinian  Rights  of  the  Secretariat,  and  the  special 
information  programme  on  the  question  of  Palestine 
of the Department of Public Information. The General 
Assembly  reaffirms  therein  the  importance  of  the 
mandates that it has assigned to those entities. As in the 
past, the Committee seeks to ensure that all resources 
it is given are used in an efficient manner. Allow me to 
outline some aspects of the draft resolutions.
As members will note, by draft resolution A/71/L.18, 
which  addresses  the  renewal  of  the  Committee’s 
mandate,  the  General  Assembly  would  request  the 
Committee,  in  the  light  of  the  onset  of  the  fiftieth 
year  of  the  Israeli  occupation,  to  focus  its  activities 
throughout  2017  on  efforts  and  initiatives  to  end  the 
Israeli occupation and contribute to a just peace.
By  the  second  draft  resolution,  A/71/L.19,  the 
General  Assembly  would  renew  the  mandate  of  the 
Division for Palestinian Rights of the Secretariat, and 
request  the  Secretary-General  to  continue  to  provide 
the Division with the necessary resources and to ensure 
that it continues to effectively carry out its programme 
of work.
In  draft  resolution  A/71/L.20,  which  relates  to 
the  special  information  programme  on  the  question 
of Palestine of the Department of Public Information, 
the General Assembly would renew the mandate of the 
Department and call upon it to continue those initiatives 
that contribute to the creation of a favourable climate 
for dialogue and the advancement of peace efforts.
In  draft  resolution  A/71/L.21,  entitled  “Peaceful 
settlement  of  the  Palestinian  question”,  the  General 
Assembly  would  reaffirm  its  position  regarding  the 
essential  elements  of  such  a  settlement.  The  draft 
resolution refers to facts that have come to light in the 
past  year.  It  stressing  the  urgent  need  for  efforts  to 
reverse the negative trends on the ground and to restore 
4/25 
16-40519
29/11/2016 
A/71/PV.49
a  political  horizon  for  advancing  and  accelerating 
meaningful negotiations aimed at the achievement of a 
peace agreement that will bring a complete end to the 
Israeli occupation that began in 1967 and the resolution 
of  all  core  final  status  issues,  without  exception, 
leading to a peaceful, just, lasting and comprehensive 
solution  of  the  question  of  Palestine.  The  draft 
resolution urges renewed and coordinated efforts by the 
international community aimed at restoring a political 
horizon,  welcomes  the  initiative  launched  by  France, 
the  ongoing  efforts  of  the  Quartet  and  the  initiatives 
taken  by  Egypt  and  Russia.  It  reiterates  the  demand 
for  the  consideration  of  measures  of  accountability, 
in  accordance  with  international  law,  if  Israel,  the 
occupying  Power,  continues  to  ignore  appeals  for  a 
complete  end  of  settlement  activities  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  including  in  East  Jerusalem. 
That  is  a  prerequisite  for  preserving  the  possibilities 
of  achieving  a  two-State  solution  within  the  pre-1967 
borders,  putting  a  final  end  to  the  Israeli  occupation 
and  ensuring  the  realization  of  the  rights  of  the 
Palestinian people.
We  call  on  the  Assembly  to  lend  its  firm  and 
legitimate support for those texts and hope it does so.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
Rapporteur  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People to introduce 
the Committee’s report.
Mr. 
Inguanez 
(Malta),  Rapporteur  of 
the 
Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights 
of  the  Palestinian  People:  It  is  an  honour  for  me,  in 
my  capacity  as  Rapporteur  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People,  to  present  to  the  General  Assembly  the 
Committee’s annual report (A/71/35). The report covers 
developments relating to the question of Palestine and 
details the work of the Committee between 7 October 
2015 and 3 October 2016. Allow me to summarize each 
section of the report.
Following  the  introduction,  chapter  II  provides 
a  review  of  the  situation  relating  to  the  question  of 
Palestine, as monitored by the Committee, in order to 
draw  the  attention  of  the  international  community  to 
issues requiring urgent attention, such as the impasse 
in  the  peace  process,  dire  living  conditions,  the 
reconstruction of the Gaza Strip, extrajudicial killings, 
the  excessive  use  of  force  by  the  Israeli  occupying 
forces,  heightened  provocations  and  tensions  at  the 
Al-Aqsa  Mosque  compound  and  other 
religious 
sites,  ongoing  illegal  Israeli  settlement  activities,and 
increasing  house  demolitions  in  the  West  Bank, 
including in East Jerusalem.
In  chapters  III  and  IV,  the  report  outlines  the 
mandate  entrusted  to  the  Committee  by  the  General 
Assembly, and contains information on the organization 
of the Committee’s work during the year.
Chapter  V  contains  the  action  taken  by  the 
Committee,  including  the  Chairman’s  participation 
in  the  Security  Council  debates  and  the  continued 
dialogue  between  the  Committee  and  members  of 
intergovernmental  organizations  with  the  objective  of 
mobilizing  wide  support  for  the  inalienable  rights  of 
the Palestinian people and urging action.
Chapter  VI  provides  an  overview  of  the  special 
information  programme  on  the  question  of  Palestine 
carried  out  by  the  Department  of  Public  Information 
pursuant  to  resolution  70/14,  of  24  November  2015, 
as well as of activities reported by the United Nations 
Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees 
in  the  Near  East  (UNRWA)  and  the  United  Nations 
Development Programme.
the 
revitalization  of 
The  last  chapter  of  the  report  is  devoted  to  the 
conclusions  and  recommendations  of  the  Committee. 
In  view  of  the  stalled  negotiations,  the  Committee 
would  welcome 
the  peace 
negotiations as well as the efforts of any country that 
is able to advance the peace process, conceivably with 
support from a reinvigorated Quartet, in order to reach 
a  comprehensive  regional  solution.  The  Committee 
would also urge the Security Council and the General 
Assembly  to  give  positive  consideration  to  proposals 
seeking to find a way out of the current impasse. Allow 
me to recall additional key recommendations.
In relation to Gaza, the Committee would reiterate 
its  calls  on  the  international  community  to  demand 
the  lifting  of  the  blockade.  It  would  also  call  upon 
international donors to fulfil all pledges without delay 
in  order  to  expedite  reconstruction  efforts  and  to 
secure funding for long-term humanitarian assistance, 
including for UNRWA.
In  connection  with  Israel’s  continued  policy  of 
illegal  occupation  and  settlement-building 
the 
occupied West Bank and East Jerusalem, the Committee 
would welcome further measures by the Human Rights 
Council to expedite the implementation of its resolution 
in 
16-40519
5/25
A/71/PV.49 
29/11/2016
31/36, calling for the creation of a database of all actors 
conducting  business  in  areas  under  Israeli  military 
occupation.  That  is  consistent  with  the  stance  taken 
by the European Union on the importation of products 
from illegal Israeli settlements. The Committee would 
encourage  other  organizations  and  States  to  adopt 
and  implement  policies  that  guarantee  the  adherence 
to  international  conventions  with  regard  to  illegal 
settlements  in  occupied  areas,  particularly  the  Fourth 
Geneva  Convention.  It  would  welcome  further  steps 
by  Governments  and  private  businesses  to  dissociate 
themselves  from  policies  which  directly  or  indirectly 
support settlements.
The  Committee  would  continue  to  encourage 
civil-society  partners  to  work  with  their  national 
Governments,  parliamentarians  and  other  institutions 
with a view to gaining their full support for the work 
of the Committee and the United Nations, as a whole.
To  ensure  that  Governments  actively  support  the 
realization  of  a  peaceful  and  just  settlement  of  the 
question  of  Palestine,  the  Committee  would  reach 
out  to  all  regional  groups  at  the  United  Nations. 
Recognizing  the  growing  importance  of  cooperation 
with developing countries and regional and subregional 
organizations in sharing experiences and implementing 
replicable solutions, it will make a special effort to step 
up engagement with such countries and organizations 
in  the  context  of  the  South-South  and  triangular 
cooperation framework.
The Committee would suggest that its programme 
of  international  meetings  and  conferences  in  2017  be 
focused  on  amplifying  international  support  for  the 
fulfilment  of  the  inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people  and  bringing  the  Israeli  occupation  to  a 
complete end.
The  Committee  would  strongly  recommend  that 
the  annual  capacity-building  programme  for 
the 
staff  of  the  Palestinian  Government,  managed  by  the 
Division  for  Palestinian  Rights,  be  continued  and, 
where  possible,  further  expanded  in  the  light  of  the 
State of Palestine’s commitment to fulfilling the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Committee 
would  also  request  that  the  Division  continue  its 
substantive support for the secretariat, its research and 
monitoring  programmes,  as  well  as  publications  and 
other  informational  activities,  in  furtherance  of  the 
Committee’s communication strategy.
Finally,  in  view  of  the  tragic  approach  of  the 
fiftieth  year  of  Israeli  occupation  and  the  seventieth 
year since the partition, and to underscore the absolute 
urgency of achieving a just and lasting solution to the 
question  of  Palestine,  the  Committee  calls  upon  the 
entire membership of the General Assembly to join it 
in that endeavour.
In closing, I would like to express the hope that the 
report  that  I  have  just  presented  will  be  of  assistance 
to  the  General  Assembly  in  its  deliberations  on  the 
question of Palestine.
(Palestine): 
I 
thank 
Mr.  Mansour 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
Permanent Observer of the observer State of Palestine.
you, 
Mr.  President,  for  your  principled  statement  and  for 
the  convening  of  this  important  General  Assembly 
debate,  which  coincides  with  the  thirty-ninth  annual 
observance of the International Day of Solidarity with 
the  Palestinian  People.  On  this  solemn  day,  as  we 
reflect upon the painful, grave injustice that continues 
to be borne by the Palestinian people, the messages of 
support for the just cause of Palestine and the moving 
expressions  of  solidarity  are  not  only  a  source  of 
comfort, but also help to shore up our resilience in these 
times of diminished hope.
As we approach the date marking 50 years since the 
onset of Israel’s occupation in June 1967, as well as the 
seventieth year of the Assembly’s partition of Mandate 
Palestine and Al-Nakba that followed and is still suffered 
by our people to this day, we are compelled to convey 
our hope that this time next year the International Day of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People may be observed 
with  a  commemoration  of  the  achievement  of  a  just, 
comprehensive  and  lasting  solution  to  the  question  of 
Palestine, a celebration of the independence of the State 
of  Palestine  and  a  realization  of  Palestinian  freedom 
and rights and genuine Palestinian-Israeli peace.
This may sound like wishful thinking, considering 
the  harsh  realities  that  overwhelm  us  and  the  fatigue 
felt  by  the  international  community  after  so  many 
years of conflict, setbacks and tragedy, yet it remains 
our  primary,  overarching  objective,  guiding  all  that 
we do here at the United Nations and based firmly on 
the  Charter,  the  rules  and  principles  of  international 
law  and  the  relevant  resolutions  across  the  decades. 
Our  conviction  in  the  law,  our  commitment  to  peace 
and  coexistence,  and  the  international  community’s 
long-standing  support  nourish  this  hope  and  help  us 
6/25 
16-40519
29/11/2016 
A/71/PV.49
to  endure  despite  immense  odds  and  hardship.  The 
Palestinian  people  remain  steadfast,  as  shall  we,  in 
giving voice to their plight and in calling and striving 
every day for their rights and justice. We are therefore 
deeply grateful for the Assembly’s solidarity on a day 
like this day.
Today,  we  pay  tribute  to  the  United  Nations 
Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights 
of the Palestinian People, which has for over 40 years 
exerted  efforts  in  support  of  the  inalienable  rights 
and  legitimate  national  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian 
people  to  live  in  freedom,  peace  and  security  in 
their  homeland.  These  efforts  fully  conform  with  the 
Committee’s  General  Assembly  mandate,  relevant 
resolutions,  international  law  and  the  United  Nations 
permanent  responsibility  towards  the  question  of 
Palestine until justly resolved in all aspects. Based on 
this responsibility, we again appeal to Member States to 
support the Committee in advancing its noble objectives. 
Bearing  in  mind  the  anniversaries  we  shall  mark  in 
2017  and  the  current  crossroads,  we  urge  partnership 
with the Committee to enhance the collective efforts to 
end the Israeli occupation and make peace.
We  thank  Ambassador  Fodé  Seck,  Chair  of  the 
Committee,  for  his  leadership  —  a  role  graciously 
undertaken  by  Senegal  over  the  years  —  and  for  the 
statement and introduction of the resolutions under this 
item that were delivered on his behalf. We also thank the 
Rapporteur, Ambassador Carmelo Inguanez of Malta, 
for  presenting  the  annual  report  of  the  Committee 
(A/71/35), the other Bureau members — Afghanistan, 
Cuba,  Indonesia,  Namibia  and  Nicaragua  —  and  all 
of  the  Committee’s  members  and  observers  for  their 
principled support. We also reiterate our appreciation to 
the Division for Palestinian Rights and the Department 
of Public Information’s special information programme 
on the question of Palestine for their efforts and support 
to the Committee.
We reiterate our thanks also to Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for his report on the peaceful settlement 
of  the  question  of  Palestine  (A/71/359)  and  recognize 
his  contribution  over  the  past  10  years  of  his  tenure 
to  promoting  peace  and  leading  the  United  Nations 
system’s  efforts  on  the  question  of  Palestine.  In  this 
regard,  we  express  appreciation  for  the  support  of 
Under-Secretary-General  for  Political  Affairs  Jeffrey 
Feltman  and  Special  Coordinator  Nickolay  Mladenov 
and  their  teams.  We  are  also  grateful  for  the  tireless 
the 
efforts  of  United  Nations  agencies  assisting 
Palestinian people, including the United Nations Relief 
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East  (UNRWA),  with  the  generous  support  of  States, 
organizations  and  partners  from  around  the  world. 
Such support has helped sustain our people, including 
5.5  million  Palestine  refugees,  through  decades  of 
conflict and crisis and remains vital until a just, durable 
solution is achieved.
While grateful for this support, we cannot conceal 
our  deep  disappointment  and  frustration  at 
the 
absence of serious efforts to uphold political and legal 
responsibilities  towards  the  question  of  Palestine,  the 
core of the Arab-Israeli conflict. As the situation further 
deteriorates and peace remains far from our grasp, we 
lament  in  particular  the  Security  Council’s  failure  to 
uphold its Charter duties and implement its resolutions. 
Generations after generations of Palestinians have been 
deprived of their rights and of a life of freedom, stability, 
prosperity and dignity. The despair and hopelessness of 
our  youth  in  particular  at  this  moment  —  whether  in 
occupied Palestine or throughout the Palestine refugee 
camps in Jordan, Lebanon and Syria — is a source of 
vast pain and worry.
As  this  injustice  persists,  constituting  a  bleeding 
wound  in  the  Middle  East,  destabilizing  the  region, 
undermining  peace  and  stability  far  beyond,  and 
weakening  international  law  and  the  international 
system  itself,  we  must  ask:  when  will  the  Security 
Council finally respond to the global appeals to act to 
heal?  How  can  the  international  community  continue 
justifying  inaction  and  the  lack  of  accountability  as 
we approach the half-century mark of Israel’s military 
occupation  and  as  the  international  promise  to  the 
Palestinian  people  remains  broken  and  they  continue 
to be denied self-determination, the most fundamental 
human right?
What is lacking has not been support or solidarity 
for Palestine, but rather the political courage and will 
to respect and ensure respect for the law in the face of 
Israel’s  intransigence  and  disrespect.  Resolution  after 
resolution is being violated as Israel — the same Israel 
created by resolution 181 (II) — blatantly disregards the 
General Assembly and the Security Council, tramples 
international law and disrespects the advisory opinion 
of the International Court of Justice. Dismissing calls 
to comply with the law, the Israeli Government instead 
commits  violations  and  crimes  as  if  it  were  exempt 
from  the  law  and  as  if  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict 
were the exception to every norm and rule intended to 
16-40519
7/25
A/71/PV.49 
29/11/2016
those 
taking  comfort 
For 
safeguard  human  rights  and  peace  and  security.  And 
yet, the international community fails to act.
in  and 
indulging 
complacency  about  the  status  quo  —  including  the 
historic status quo regarding the holy sites in occupied 
East  Jerusalem,  including  Al-Haram  al-Sharif  —  the 
reality is that the status quo is being severely undermined 
and altered every single day by the occupying Power. 
This  is  further  inflaming  tensions,  destabilizing  the 
situation,  destroying  the  viability  of  the  two-State 
solution  and  obstructing  peace,  with  far-reaching 
consequences. So, again, we ask: what is the threshold 
for action?
Reflecting on the past year alone begs this question 
even  more  insistently.  As  international  paralysis  has 
continued, Israel has persisted with its systematic, gross 
violations  of  international  law  in  occupied  Palestine 
with full impunity, destroying the prospects for peace. 
Report  after  report  before  the  Assembly,  including, 
inter alia, by the Secretary-General, convey a shocking 
reality of a vast regime of violations by the occupying 
Power,  intensifying  distress  among  the  Palestinian 
population and their need for protection.
As  reflected  in  recent  reports,  including  the  July 
report  of  the  Middle  East  Quartet,  the  past  year  has 
witnessed  non-stop  Israeli  colonization  activities 
deliberately  aimed  at  altering 
the  demography, 
character  and  status  of  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory,  including  East  Jerusalem.  That  included  the 
expansion  and  construction  of  settlements  and  the 
wall; unprecedented rates of home demolitions and the 
destruction of civilian infrastructure and humanitarian 
assistance; confiscation of land; the forced displacement 
and  transfer  of  Palestinians,  especially  vulnerable 
Bedouin  communities;  the  imposition  of  hundreds  of 
checkpoints,  impairing  freedom  of  movement  and 
socioeconomic  life,  including  access  to  lands  and 
livelihoods;  the  exploitation  of  natural  resources  and 
obstruction  of  access  to  water  and  agricultural  lands; 
and blatant annexation threats by Israeli officials.
The year has also witnessed daily Israeli military 
raids, causing death and injury to Palestinian children, 
women  and  men  who  have  been  routinely  assaulted 
and  traumatized  by  the  occupying  forces;  terror  and 
violence  on  the  part  of  extremist  settlers;  massive 
forms of collective punishment; constant intimidation 
and  humiliation;  racist,  discriminatory  policies  and 
blatant  dehumanization.  The  Palestinian  people  have 
been  subjected  to  constant  attempts  to  negate  their 
identity,  history  and  heritage,  including  provocations 
and  incitement  against  the  holy  sites,  particularly  in 
Al-Quds  and  Al-Khalil  and  especially  at  Al-Haram 
Al-Sharif and the holy Al-Aqsa Mosque and Al-Haram 
Al-Ibrahimi, and aggravation of religious sensitivities. 
Civilians face daily arrest and detention, foremost the 
young  men,  with  more  than  7,000  Palestinians  now 
imprisoned or detained in Israeli jails.
Those  actions  also  include  continuing  Israeli 
aggression  and  threats  and  the  illegal,  inhumane 
blockade of the Gaza Strip, where 2 million Palestinians 
are  being  mercilessly  besieged  and  collectively 
punished,  thereby  enduring  extreme  deprivation  and 
isolation  for  nearly  10  years,  which  has  generated  a 
dire  humanitarian  crisis  and  pushed  socioeconomic 
conditions  to  their  lowest  point  since  1967,  with 
poverty,  unemployment,  food  insecurity  and  despair 
rampant.  Here  I  must  reiterate  our  appeal  for  urgent 
support  to  UNRWA,  which  leads  efforts  to  alleviate 
the  plight  of  the  vulnerable  Palestine  refugees  in  the 
occupied Palestinian territory, particularly in Gaza, and 
throughout the region, providing them with sustenance 
and protection amid widespread crises.
As  we  bear  witness  to  the  global  refugee  and 
migrant crisis, it should be recognized that Palestinian 
refugees  are  among  the  millions  of  civilians  fleeing 
our region, especially due to the grave Syrian conflict. 
We  ask  Member  States  not  to  forget  those  who  have 
suffered  nearly  70  years  of  exile,  dispossession  and 
misery, and urge Member States to reaffirm solidarity 
with them and to support a just solution in accordance 
with resolution 194 (III) of 1948, which enshrined their 
right  to  return,  a  right  reaffirmed  for  all  refugees  in 
the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants 
(resolution 71/1).
All of the facts before us confirm that the situation 
is far from static and that the crisis is unmanageable, 
contrary to what many, including the Israeli Government, 
may like to believe. The situation is in constant decline 
and totally unsustainable and can indeed get worse. In 
a part of the world already experiencing much turmoil 
and radicalization, with spillover far beyond its borders, 
that must be cause for both alarm and action.
There is international consensus that, as reflected 
clearly in the Quartet report, Israel’s policy of settlement 
construction  and  expansion  is  eroding  the  two-State 
solution  and  entrenching  a  one-State  reality  that  can 
8/25 
16-40519
29/11/2016 
A/71/PV.49
only  be  deemed  apartheid.  The  Quartet  has  called 
for serious action to reverse the negative trend on the 
ground. That must include immediate changes in Israeli 
policies that are fragmenting our land, undermining our 
State’s  viability,  violating  our  people’s  human  rights 
and denying them their human dignity. Lip service to 
the cause of peace is not enough; empty promises and 
claimed  commitments,  contracted  by  every  action  by 
Israel, must not be accepted in place of actual respect 
for the law and genuine efforts for peace.
The international community — with the Security 
Council at the forefront — must consider measures to 
hold  Israel  accountable  and  compel  compliance  with 
its  legal  obligations.  Steps  must  be  taken  to  stop  the 
downward spiral and expedite an end to the illegal 50-
year occupation. Action is urgent if there is to be any 
hope of preserving the two-State solution based on the 
1967  borders  and  creating  conditions  for  meaningful 
negotiations  on  all  final  status  issues  and  tangibly 
advancing that solution, which, all agree, is in peril.
Continued international appeasement and inaction 
are  indefensible.  Current  efforts  to  mobilize  the 
Security  Council  to  act  must  be  supported  if  we  are 
to  confront  the  main  obstacles  to  peace,  particularly 
illegal Israeli settlement activities, and forge a political 
horizon  in  which  negotiations  based  on  the  long-
standing parameters and terms of reference enshrined 
in the relevant United Nations resolutions, the Madrid 
principles  and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  within  a 
set time frame, can be accelerated for achievement of a 
peace agreement that will bring a complete end to the 
Israeli occupation and the independence of the State of 
Palestine, with East Jerusalem as its capital, living side 
by side with the State of Israel in peace and security, 
and a just solution for the Palestine refugee question.
leadership  has 
The  Palestinian 
continually 
reaffirmed its commitment to peace on that basis and is 
ready to pursue it in full cooperation with all concerned 
regional  and  international  partners.  We  therefore 
reaffirm our support for France’s efforts to mobilize the 
international  community  for  Palestinian-Israeli  peace 
and to convene an international peace conference. We 
also  reaffirm  our  support  for  the  efforts  of  the  Arab 
States to advance the Arab Peace Initiative, including 
in cooperation with the Quartet members, whose recent 
efforts are also fully recognized, along with the Russian 
and Egyptian efforts to promote dialogue and help the 
parties overcome the deadlock.
Yet  none  of  those  efforts  can  absolve  the  United 
Nations of its responsibility. The General Assembly and 
Security Council must act to ensure that international 
law  is  upheld,  to  thread  the  collective  efforts  and 
chart  a  viable  path  forward.  On  this  day  —  69  years 
from  the  date  of  the  partition  of  our  homeland  —  I 
wish to remind the Assembly that, in spite of the grim 
realities they are enduring, the Palestinian people and 
leadership  are  undeterred  and  remain  insistent  on  the 
path  of  peace.  Just  a  few  months  ago  in  this  Hall,  a 
Palestinian teacher, winner of the Global Teacher Prize, 
stood  here  among  the  United  Nations  Messengers  of 
Peace proudly representing and reaffirming Palestine’s 
longstanding  commitment  to  peace.  Although  hopes 
are  diminished,  our  people  hold  steadfast  to  the 
justness of their cause and still believe in the law and 
the international community’s pledges to achieve peace 
and ensure the State of Palestine’s rightful place among 
the community of nations.
From this rostrum, we urge once more that no effort 
be  spared  to  bring  the  foreign  occupation  and  tragic 
conflict to an end, to help the Palestinian people finally 
achieve their long-denied rights, their independence and 
dignity, and finally to establish peace and coexistence 
between the Palestinian and the Israeli peoples.
Mr. Danon (Israel): Every year on this date this Hall 
hosts  the  same  cynical,  Israel-bashing  festival.  Every 
year  we  hear  speaker  after  speaker  distorting  history 
and promoting a completely one-sided narrative. Every 
year Member States adopt the same empty resolutions. 
This year is no different. Let no one be fooled: none of 
it does anything to help the Palestinian people. It only 
continues to fuel the Palestinian culture of victimhood.
The  reality  is  that  this  debate  on  the  so-called 
question  of  Palestine  avoids  the  hard  questions.  Are 
the Palestinians really ready to make the hard decisions 
that are needed for peace? Do they really want to end 
the conflict, to end the decades of terror and violence 
against the people of Israel and to end their diplomatic 
warfare  here  at  the  United  Nations?  For  all  the  talk 
about new initiatives and new resolutions, we must ask 
the  question:  do  the  Palestinians  even  want  a  State? 
History tells us that the answer is no.
Since  1947,  the  Palestinian  leadership  has  proved 
time and time again that they do not want a solution for 
their people. Let us remember what happened 69 years 
ago. The United Nations voted to partition the land into 
a  Jewish  State  and  an  Arab  State.  We  all  know  what 
16-40519
9/25
A/71/PV.49 
29/11/2016
happened next. The Jews said yes, the Arabs said no. 
It is as simple as that. And today nothing has changed. 
After 69 years, the Palestinians still do not want peace. 
They still do not want a State, and they still do not want 
to end the conflict. Every time that there is a possibility 
of progress, an opportunity to choose a better path for 
their people, they choose the path of violence, rejection, 
and bloodshed.
Let  us  not  forget  that  the  leaders  of  the  Zionist 
movement accepted the United Nations plan, despite all 
the  risks  and  the  loud  threats  of  genocide  against  the 
Jewish people by Arab leaders. The brave Zionist leaders 
accepted the plan because they knew that it offered the 
best  hope  for  the  restoration  of  Jewish  independence 
after  2,000  years  and  because  they  believed  it  was 
possible to live side by side with their Arab neighbours 
in  the  land  of  their  forefathers.  However,  the  Arab 
leadership  was  not  willing  to  accept  the  Jewish  State 
under any conditions. Let us make no mistake: it was 
not about pushing for a better deal.
A  working  paper  of  the  Secretariat  of  the  United 
Nations  dated  30  July  1949  stated  clearly,  “The 
Arabs  rejected  the  United  Nations  Partition  Plan  ... 
in its entirety.” Their goal was clear. It was not about 
establishing  another  Arab  State.  It  was,  and  remains, 
about  the  opposition  to  a  homeland  for  the  Jewish 
people.  Let  us  look  at  the  headlines  on  the  day  after 
the  vote:  “Assembly  votes  Palestine  Partition,  Arabs 
walk  out”,  “Disavow  any  partition  role”.  That  is  the 
whole story.
They  rejected  the  plan  and  launched  a  war  of 
destruction,  which  was  joined  by  the  armies  of  five 
Arab nations. Their response was best summed up by 
Secretary-General of the League of Arab States Azzam 
Pasha. He promised:
“It  will  be  a  war  of  elimination.  It  will  be  a 
momentous  massacre  in  history  that  will  be 
talked about like the massacres of the Mongols or 
the Crusades.”
That  has  repeated  itself  at  every  stage  of  history. 
Israel makes compromises for peace. The Palestinians 
reject  every  offer  and  every  plan,  and  respond  with 
a  wave  of  violence  and  terror.  From  1948  to  1967, 
when  the  territory  under  discussion  was  under  Arab 
control, the residents did not go to international forums 
demanding  a  State,  and  the  Arab  States  did  not  lift  a 
finger to create one.
The  founding  charter  of  the  Palestine  Liberation 
Organization  does  not  call  for  a  Palestinian  State.  It 
calls on Arabs “to repulse the Zionist invasion and to 
eliminate the Zionist presence from Palestine”. Let me 
read that again: “to repulse the Zionist invasion and to 
eliminate the Zionist presence from Palestine”.
In 1967, Israel was attacked again from three sides 
but  managed  to  defeat  three  Arab  armies.  Again,  we 
extended our hand to our neighbours, appealing to them 
to  end  the  conflict,  to  end  the  bloodshed  and  to  end 
the suffering on both sides once and for all. The Arab 
World  responded  with  one  unequivocal  message  of 
rejection: “No peace, no recognition, no negotiation”.
The history of Palestinian rejectionism is alive and 
well  today.  In  the  year  2000,  Israel’s  Prime  Minister 
Ehud  Barak  made  an  unprecedented  and  far-reaching 
offer  for  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State. 
Believe me when I say that that was very controversial 
in Israel. It involved very painful compromises on our 
part. But still, the Palestinian leadership, led by Yasser 
Arafat, said no. President Clinton urged him to change 
his mind. Many Arab leaders told him that it was the 
golden opportunity to establish a State. But he refused. 
Not only did he say no, but he encouraged the wave of 
terror and violence that has still not ended.
President  Clinton  called  the  decision  to  reject  a 
State  “an  error  of  historic  proportions”.  However,  the 
Palestinians  repeated  their  mistake  eight  years  later. 
Once  again,  an  Israeli  leader,  Prime  Minister  Ehud 
Olmert,  offered 
they 
claimed to want — a State of their own, virtually all the 
territory in dispute and the uprooting of the so-called 
settlements. What was their response? President Abbas 
said, “I did not agree ... I rejected it out of hand”.
the  Palestinians  everything 
How  many  times  should  we  be  shocked  when 
the  Palestinians  will  not  even  consider  the  most 
generous offers? How many times do we have to hear 
no, until we finally believe it? Every time there was an 
opportunity to move forward, to chart a path to a better 
future, the Palestinian leadership rejected it.
Israel has tried everything. In 2005, we dismantled 
entire communities and uprooted thousands of people 
from  their  homes  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  and  from  parts 
of Judea and Samaria as well. It was a chance for the 
Palestinians  to  prove  that  their  goal  was  the  welfare 
of their people rather than warfare with Israel. It was 
an opportunity for the Palestinian leadership, and they 
threw it away.
10/25 
16-40519
29/11/2016 
A/71/PV.49
Instead of building hospitals and schools in Gaza, 
instead of investing in the future of their people, Gaza 
became  a  launching  pad  for  attacking  Israeli  towns 
and  cities  with  rockets  from  above  and  tunnels  from 
below.  Once  again,  Israel  opened  the  door  to  peace, 
and the Palestinians slammed it shut. To this day, the 
Palestinians  refuse  to  assume  control  over  the  Gaza 
border  crossings.  The  Palestinian  leadership  will  not 
even take responsibility for the territory and the people 
whom  they  claim  to  represent,  because  responsibility 
requires accountability. It requires a practical policy of 
action. It means rejecting excuses.
But making excuses is the Palestinian policy. Just 
think  about  one  of  the  great  lies  that,  unfortunately, 
many  in  this  Hall  repeat  endlessly.  Time  and  time 
again  we  hear  that  settlements  are  the  obstacle  to 
progress. But in 2010, for 10 months, we put a complete 
freeze on settlement-building as a goodwill gesture to 
advance talks. For 10 months, not a single apartment, 
kindergarten  or  community  centre  was  built  in  Judea 
or  Samaria.  That  is  a  fact.  And  the  Palestinians  still 
refused to even come to the table. That is also a fact. 
It  is  not  about  the  settlements.  It  never  was.  The 
Palestinian  rejection  began  before  there  was  a  single 
settlement, and it will continue despite every effort to 
move forward.
In 2014, United States Secretary of State John Kerry 
led  another  round  of  talks.  The  Government  of  Israel 
made significant concessions and got nothing in return 
from the Palestinians. We made difficult decisions and 
even released Palestinian prisoners who had murdered 
innocent Israelis. Just think about it. Just imagine the 
pain felt by Israelis when they watched those terrorists 
receive a hero’s welcome from President Abbas.
But  then,  just  as  the  deadline  was  about  pass, 
the  Palestinian  Authority  blew  up  the  process  by 
establishing  a  unity  Government  with  Hamas  —  an 
internationally  recognized  terror  organization.  The 
Palestinian  Authority  faced  an  important  decision: 
whether to talk peace with Israel or to join forces with 
a terror organization, and they chose terror — another 
missed opportunity, another rejection, another embrace 
of the forces of violence.
Israel has tried everything, time after time — more 
compromises and more concessions. But the Palestinians 
have always had an excuse. There was always something 
missing, always some reason not to sit down and talk 
with us. If the Palestinians really want peace, why do 
they  reject  every  opportunity?  If  they  really  wanted 
peace,  they  would  have  responded  to  Prime  Minister 
Barak  and  Prime  Minister  Olmert’s  far-reaching 
proposals.  And  right  now,  today,  they  can  answer 
Prime  Minister  Netanyahu’s  call  for  negotiations,  at 
any time, in any place — in New York, in Jerusalem, in 
Ramallah. Instead, they focus their time and effort on 
the political theatre that we are witnessing here today. 
We hear empty resolutions and empty speeches, more 
promises of support, more new initiatives, more United 
Nations  organizations  and,  of  course,  more  funding. 
The  Palestinian  Authority  pays  lip  service  to  those 
initiatives because it pays well.
According  to  the  World  Bank,  they  received 
$2.5 billion in international aid in 2014, and $21.7 billion 
in development aid since the Oslo Accords were signed 
in  1993.  According  to  the  2016  Global  Humanitarian 
Assistance  Report,  the  Palestinians  have  been  among 
the top 10 recipients of international funding for over a 
decade. And they receive 10 times more humanitarian 
aid  per  capita  than  any  other  people.  Year  after  year, 
the  international  community  pours  billions  of  dollars 
into the Palestinian Authority — an organization that 
is  corrupt  from  top  to  bottom.  Can  we  be  surprised 
when  the  money  intended  to  improve  the  lives  of  the 
Palestinian people goes instead to the families and the 
inner circles of the Palestinian leaders?
But  it  is  not  just  about  widespread  corruption. 
The  Palestinians  leadership  allocates  tens  of  millions 
of  dollars  to  finance  the  Palestinian  terror  industry. 
In  2012,  the  Palestinian  Authority  paid  more  than 
$75  million  to  terrorists  in  Israeli  prisons,  and 
$78  million  to  the  families  of  terrorists,  including 
suicide bombers. Together that accounts for more than 
16 per cent of annual foreign donations and grants to 
the  Palestinian  Authority  budget.  They  tried  to  hide 
that subsidizing of terror by shifting responsibility to 
the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization,  but  the  money 
all  comes  from  the  same  source  and  has  the  same 
purpose — to encourage the murder of innocent Jews. 
Taxpayers  around  the  world  should  know  that  their 
money  is  helping  to  fund  stabbings,  shootings  and 
suicide bombings.
That is where the funding goes — not to building 
institutions,  but 
to  paying  Palestinian  Authority 
salaries,  to  the  black  hole  of  Palestinian  Authority 
corruption  and 
terrorists.  The 
Palestinians are on permanent welfare provided by the 
international community, and they have no intention of 
to  paychecks  for 
16-40519
11/25
A/71/PV.49 
29/11/2016
stopping it. They want the conflict to continue because 
they know that others will continue to pay their bills, 
and institutions like this one will continue to conduct a 
campaign against Israel on their behalf. The Palestinians 
do not want an agreement. They do not want a State. The 
responsibilities of statehood would mean making hard 
choices and delivering on the promises to their people. 
It  would  mean  investing  in  their  own  institutions.  It 
would  mean  putting  an  end  to  terror  and  incitement. 
It  would  mean  finally  recognizing  the  connection  of 
the Jewish people to the land of Israel. It would mean 
making peace. But the Palestinians want easy victories 
without  the  responsibilities  of  governing.  And  they 
know  that  the  only  way  to  do  that  is  to  perpetuate 
the conflict.
It is time to put an end to that lie once and for all. 
If the Palestinians really wanted peace, we could have 
had  peace.  The  real  goal  of  the  Palestinian  Authority 
is  to  continue  to  exist  as  a  corrupt  entity,  living  off 
the  goodwill  of  the  international  community.  For  69 
years, the Palestinians have rejected every offer, every 
compromise and every chance for peace. But the more 
the  Palestinians  say  no,  the  more  the  international 
community says yes.
If  you  really  want  to  show  solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  people,  then  end  this  charade.  Shut  down 
the grievance industry and the culture of victimhood. 
Stop the endless stream of resolutions that do nothing 
to promote peace or help the Palestinian people. And, 
most  important,  condemn  the  culture  of  hate  and 
incitement  and  demand  that  the  Palestinian  leaders 
finally return to the negotiating table. Until that time, 
Israel  will  continue  to  stand  strong  in  defence  of  its 
country, and the people of Israel will continue to pray 
for a true and lasting peace.
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the European Union.
Mr.  Vale  de  Almeida  (European  Union):  I 
have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union  (EU).  The  candidate  countries  of  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia 
and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia and 
Herzegovina; and the European Free Trade Association 
countries  Iceland  and  Liechtenstein,  members  of  the 
European  Economic  Area;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  align 
themselves with this statement.
The  European  Union  is  gravely  concerned  about 
the trends on the ground that threaten the viability of 
a two-State solution. In the past few months, we have 
seen  an  acceleration  of  negative  trends  that  directly 
contradict  the  Quartet’s  recommendations.  There  is  a 
danger that a one-State reality will become entrenched 
in  a  perpetual  occupation  and  conflict,  which  would 
be  incompatible  with  the  realization  of  the  national 
aspirations of both peoples.
The  European  Union  has  a  clear  position,  set  out 
in our Council’s conclusions, on pursuing a two-State 
solution. It is the same two-State solution that has been 
identified as the objective of all Israeli Governments, the 
Palestinian leadership and the international community 
since  Oslo  —  a  negotiated  two-State  solution  that 
meets  Israeli  and  Palestinian  security  needs  and 
Palestinian  aspirations  to  statehood  and  sovereignty; 
ends  the  occupation  that  began  in  1967;  and  resolves 
all permanent status issues in order to end the conflict. 
To us, our position is clear and objective, and it is not 
just  ours  but  one  that  we  share  with  the  rest  of  the 
international community and the parties concerned.
terror  and 
The European Union is extremely concerned about 
the  escalation  in  violence  and  tensions  in  Israel  and 
the  occupied  Palestinian  territory.  We  unequivocally 
condemn  all  acts  of 
incitement  as 
unacceptable  and  unjustifiable.  We  insist  that  all 
perpetrators of crimes or acts of terror, whether against 
Israelis or Palestinians, must be brought to justice. The 
response of security forces must be proportionate and 
consistent,  regardless  of  the  perpetrators.  Israel  must 
conduct thorough investigations into cases where lethal 
force  has  been  used.  Alleged  violations  and  abuses 
of  international  human  rights  law  and  international 
humanitarian law by all sides must be investigated in 
accordance with international laws and standards. The 
compliance  of  States  and  non-State  actors  alike  with 
international  humanitarian  and  human  rights  law,  as 
well as their accountability, is a cornerstone of peace 
and security in the region.
We are also concerned about the recurring tensions 
at holy sites. Jerusalem is a city sacred to three religions. 
We reiterate our call for maintaining the status quo put 
in place in 1967, in line with previous understandings 
and bearing in mind Jordan’s special role. Any change 
in  the  status  quo  would  be  deeply  destabilizing.  The 
member  States  of  the  European  Union  have  never 
recognized  the  annexation  of  the  territories  occupied 
in 1967, including East Jerusalem. All discriminatory 
12/25 
16-40519
29/11/2016 
A/71/PV.49
treatment of Palestinians in East Jerusalem must stop, 
and  a  way  must  be  found  through  negotiations  to 
resolve the status of Jerusalem as the future capital of 
two States.
I now turn to the issue of settlements and recall the 
European Union’s long-held position on that issue, which 
is  that  the  settlements  are  illegal  under  international 
law,  constitute  an  obstacle  to  peace  and  threaten  to 
make  a  two-State  solution  impossible.  Beginning 
early this year, and in particular since the publication 
of 
the  Quartet  report  (see  S/2016/595),  Israel’s 
settlement  expansion  has  accelerated  steadily  and 
systematically, which goes directly against the report’s 
recommendations.  Other  related  policies  are  having 
a  negative  impact  on  the  socioeconomic  development 
of Area C, which is crucial to the viability of a future 
Palestinian  State.  This  year,  Israel’s  demolitions  of 
Palestinian structures in Area C, some of which were 
funded by the European Union and its member States, 
have vastly increased, leading to evictions and forced 
transfers, including evictions of Bedouin communities. 
We are particularly concerned about measures that may 
amount to collective punishment, such as punitive home 
demolitions, the sealing off of Palestinian villages and 
the withdrawal of work permits. In that regard, we would 
like to recall once again the applicability of international 
humanitarian law in the occupied Palestinian territory, 
including  the  parts  of  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention 
that relate to the protection of civilians.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
reaffirm their commitment to ensuring the continued, 
full  and  effective  implementation  of  existing  EU 
legislation  and  bilateral  arrangements  applicable  to 
settlement products. We are also committed to ensuring 
that,  in  line  with  international  law,  all  agreements 
between  the  State  of  Israel  and  the  European  Union 
must  unequivocally  and  explicitly  indicate  that  they 
do  not  apply  to  the  territories  occupied  by  Israel  in 
1967.  Settlement  activity  in  East  Jerusalem  seriously 
jeopardizes the possibility of Jerusalem serving as the 
future  capital  of  both  States.  The  EU  is  also  alarmed 
by  the  progress  being  made  in  the  Knesset  by  a  bill 
on  settlement  regularization,  which  would  enable  the 
ex  post  facto  legalization  of  Israeli  outposts  in  the 
occupied  West  Bank  and  the  de-facto  confiscation  of 
private  Palestinian  land.  The  new  legislation  would 
enable  a  dramatic  expansion  of  Israeli  settlements, 
and  thereby  critically  endanger  the  contiguity  of  a 
future  Palestinian  State  and  the  prospects  for  a  two-
State solution.
improvements 
Militant activity and the dire humanitarian situation 
in  Gaza  fuel  general  instability  and  are  a  recipe  for 
renewed  conflict.  Fundamental 
in 
living  conditions  are  needed,  particularly  for  the 
most  vulnerable,  especially  children  and  the  elderly. 
While  all  international  donors  should  swiftly  honour 
their  pledges  made  at  the  Cairo  Conference,  Gaza’s 
humanitarian  needs  can  be  properly  addressed  only 
through political progress on the following three tracks.
First,  all  sides  must  respect  the  ceasefire.  All 
indiscriminate attacks are illegal and unacceptable and 
increase the risks of escalation. The illicit arms build-
up  by  Hamas  and  other  militant  groups  must  stop. 
We urge all parties to work towards the de-escalation 
of tensions.
Secondly, the European Union urges all Palestinian 
factions  to  engage  in  good  faith  in  the  reconciliation 
process  on  the  basis  of  the  Palestine  Liberation 
Organization  platform  and  the  Quartet  principles.  A 
single, legitimate and democratic Palestinian Authority, 
with full control over Gaza, is critical for fulfilling the 
national  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  for 
achieving  a  viable  Palestinian  State.  In  that  context, 
the European Union encourages the prompt setting of 
a new date for the planned Palestinian local elections, 
which,  if  held  in  line  with  international  standards, 
could become an important step towards strengthened 
Palestinian democracy and towards national unity.
Thirdly, we reiterate our call on Israel for an end 
to the Gaza closure and a full opening of the crossings, 
while  addressing  its  legitimate  security  concerns. 
The  lifting  of  the  restrictions  on  the  movement  of 
people,  including  representatives  of  the  international 
community,  and  on  the  movement  of  services  and 
goods, particularly those designated as dual-use items, 
is needed so as to allow reconstruction, service delivery 
and international infrastructure projects.
Ms. Young (Belize), Vice-President, took the Chair.
In  conclusion,  the  adoption  in  September  of  the 
Israeli-Palestinian electricity agreement was a welcome 
development.  The  European  Union  urges  both  parties 
to promote trust and confidence-building measures.
Mr. Salam (Lebanon): In June, Israel’s occupation 
of  the  West  Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip  will  mark  its 
fiftieth anniversary. We believe that it is high time for 
16-40519
13/25
A/71/PV.49 
29/11/2016
us all to pause and thoroughly reflect on what has been 
the outcome of that occupation, on our failure to put an 
end to it and on what ought to be done to live up to our 
obligations  under  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
so as to allow the Palestinian people to exercise their 
inalienable right to self-determination.
First,  one  cannot  but  be  struck  by  the  ongoing 
systematic  and  deliberate  expansion  of 
Israeli 
settlements in the occupied West Bank, particularly in 
and around East Jerusalem, since 1967. As a matter of 
fact,  in  the  past  50  years  the  Israeli  Government  has 
established 131 settlements in the West Bank, excluding 
East Jerusalem. In total, there are now nearly 800,000 
Israeli settlers on Palestinian lands, more than 400,000 
in  the  West  Bank  and  more  than  350,000  in  East 
Jerusalem. It is worth noting that the number of settlers 
has tripled since the peace process began, and it is now 
estimated that the number could reach 1 million by the 
end of the decade, according to the Applied Research 
Institute-Jerusalem.
It  is  hardly  necessary  to  remind  the  Assembly 
that  all  of  those  settlements  are  in  flagrant  violation 
of  international  law.  Article  49  of  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention  explicitly  prohibits  an  occupying  Power 
from transferring any part of its own civilian population 
into  the  territory  that  it  occupies.  Moreover,  article 
8  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  defines  such  acts  as  war  crimes.  Numerous 
Security Council resolutions, including resolutions 446 
(1979),  452  (1979)  and  465  (1980),  have  stressed  that 
those  settlements  are  illegal  and  constitute  a  serious 
obstruction  to  peace.  Of  course,  Israel  attempts  to 
legalize the so-called outposts, that is, the settlements 
that  have  been  established  since  the  1990s  without 
Government approval and which are considered illegal 
according to Israeli law and which are also all in blatant 
breach  of  international  law.  The  number  of  such  so-
called outposts, excluding East Jerusalem, has reached 
97,  and  their  locations  appear  as  strategic  front  lines 
making  it  possible  to  expand  the  settlement  areas  of 
control. Therefore, we note the very serious danger that 
they represent.
Turning  now  to  East  Jerusalem,  we  need  to  note 
that,  since  it  was  illegally  annexed  in  1967,  Israel’s 
primary goal has been to create a de facto demographic 
and  geographic  situation  in  order  to  frustrate  any 
future attempts to challenge alleged Israeli sovereignty 
over the city. In order to achieve that goal, the Israeli 
Government  has  been  seeking  to  alter  the  historical 
identity  of  many  landmarks  and  quarters  of  the  city, 
along with taking actions to increase the number of Jews 
and reduce the number of Palestinians living in the city, 
such as by imposing broad restrictions on construction 
inside Palestinian neighbourhoods, yet allowing Jewish 
settlers to move into the heart of those neighbourhoods 
and  live  there  while  expelling  Palestinians  from  their 
homes and demolishing them.
In  June  2002,  the  Israeli  Government  began  to 
construct  a  wall  to  encircle  the  West  Bank.  Once 
completed,  the  length  of  that  wall  is  projected  to  be 
more than twice the length of Israel’s border with the 
West Bank, as it snakes deep inside the West Bank to 
encompass  many  Israeli  settlements  on  the  western 
side. In fact, 85 per cent of the wall runs inside the West 
Bank, including East Jerusalem, rather than along the 
Green Line.
The advisory opinion of the International Court of 
Justice  —  Legal  consequences  of  the  construction  of 
a wall in the occupied Palestinian territory —  issued 
on 9 July 2004, states that the construction of the wall 
was  “an  attempt  to  annex  the  territory  contrary  to 
international law” and that
“[t]he  de  facto  annexation  of  land  interferes  with 
the  territorial  sovereignty  and  consequently  with 
the  rights  of  Palestinians  to  self-determination.” 
(A/ES-10/273, para. 115)
When finished, the wall and the Israeli settlements, 
Israeli-only  highways,  closed  military  zones  and  so-
called nature reserves are projected to cover 46 per cent 
of the occupied West Bank, effectively annexing them 
to Israel.
The  50  years  of  Israeli  occupation  have  also 
witnessed  numerous  other  illegal  policies  and  human 
rights  violations,  including,  inter  alia,  the  demolition 
of  Palestinian  homes  and  other  civilian  structures, 
the  confiscation  of  Palestinian  land  and  the  forced 
eviction and displacement of Palestinian families, the 
discriminatory  allocation  of  water  and  restrictions  on 
access to land and natural resources and on movement.
With  regard  to  those  policies  and  violations,  the 
facts  and  figures  speak  for  themselves.  According  to 
the  Israeli  Committee  Against  House  Demolitions, 
48,488 Palestinian homes and civilian structures have 
been demolished by Israel since 1967, either as a form 
of punitive measure or as collateral damage in military 
incursions,  such  as  in  the  attacks  on  Gaza,  and  also 
14/25 
16-40519
29/11/2016 
A/71/PV.49
as  a  result  of  the  fact  that  Israel  has  refused  to  grant 
building  permits  to  Palestinians,  who  are  then  forced 
to build illegally on their own land and face demolition.
Since  1967,  Israeli  authorities  have  confiscated 
1,018,127 dunums of land, which represents 20 per cent 
of the area of the West Bank, including East Jerusalem. 
In that regard, it is worth noting that, on 15 April 2015, 
the Supreme Court of Israel reaffirmed the application 
of the Absentees’ Property Law, which allows for the 
continued  confiscation  of  property  in  East  Jerusalem 
when its owners reside in other parts of the West Bank 
or in Gaza.
Most of Palestine’s natural resources are located in 
Area C, which constitutes over 60 per cent of the West 
Bank.  According  to  the  World  Bank,  if  Palestinians 
were  able  to  freely  and  fully  exploit  their  natural 
resources in that area, they would boost their economy 
by an estimated $3.4 billion annually. Maybe then the 
Palestinian Authority would no longer need to rely on 
development or humanitarian aid.
As  for  water,  Israel  controls  100  per  cent  of  the 
Jordan  River  basin  and  80  per  cent  of  water  reserves 
in  the  West  Bank  —  accounting  for  over  25  per  cent 
of its water consumption. Since it laid its hands on the 
water resources of the West Bank in 1967, thousands of 
Palestinians have been prevented from developing their 
water infrastructure and have become dependent upon 
Israel for water. It is very telling to note that while on 
average each Israeli settler in the West Bank has access 
to 240-300 litres of water per day, Palestinians in the 
West Bank have access to only 73 litres.
Movement  is  restricted  in  the  West  Bank  by 
almost  600  permanent  checkpoints, 
roadblocks 
and  earth  mounds,  let  alone  the  hundreds  of  flying 
checkpoints  —  not  to  mention  the  bypass  road 
network, defined by the Office for the Coordination of 
Humanitarian Affairs as
“a  network  of  roads  that  are  primarily  for  Israeli 
use and which connect Israeli settlements and other 
infrastructure to each other and to Israel. Palestinian 
vehicular access into these roads is either restricted 
or prevented and ultimately diverted. Consequently, 
these roads have become barriers.”
No wonder some non-governmental organizations have 
qualified those roads as “apartheid roads”. We also note 
that  approximately  41,000  acres  of  Palestinian  land 
have been confiscated in order to sustain that network 
of 1,661 kilometres of apartheid roads.
Since 1967, an estimated 750,000 Palestinians — up 
to  20  per  cent  of  the  Palestinian  population  —  have 
at  some  point  been  detained  by  Israeli  authorities, 
including  over  95,000  children,  of  whom  59,000  are 
likely to have been subjected to some form of physical 
violence.  Acts  of  terrorism  and  violence  by  Israeli 
settlers, including harassment and intimidation against 
Palestinian  civilians,  have  also  escalated  in  recent 
years.  However,  impunity  prevails  when  it  comes  to 
such acts, as only 1.9 per cent of complaints submitted 
by  Palestinians  with  regard  to  settlers’  attacks  have 
resulted in any form of conviction.
We must now admit that our condemnations of all 
those  illegal  acts  for  50  years  in  the  Assembly,  even 
when expressed in the strongest terms, have all failed 
to put an end to the continued Israeli occupation of the 
State of Palestine. It is high time that the United Nations 
move beyond mere condemnations in the Assembly. The 
Security Council should shoulder its responsibilities by 
enforcing its own resolutions relating to the illegality 
of the settlement activities and by calling for concrete 
measures  to  put  end  to  the  occupation  of  the  State  of 
Palestine, according to a clear and binding time frame.
To  turn  that  into  a  reality,  I  would  like  to  ask 
everyone  to  reflect  on  the  following  words  of  great 
wisdom, uttered by a great man, Bishop Desmond Tutu:
“If apartheid ended, so can the occupation, but the 
moral force and international pressure will have to 
be just as determined.”
Mr.  Alotaibi  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Our 
debate  on  the  Palestinian  question,  which  is  the 
core  of  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  coincides  with  the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the Palestinian People’s celebration of the International 
Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People. I welcome 
the  work  of  the  Committee  to  proclaim  2017  as  the 
“International  Year  to  End  the  Israeli  Occupation”  in 
the Palestinian territories, including East Jerusalem.
I also wish to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
for his report (A/71/359) on this agenda item, entitled 
“Peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine”, 
which  sheds  light  on  the  suffering  of  the  Palestinian 
people in the occupied territories owing to the flagrant 
and gross violations of international humanitarian law, 
16-40519
15/25
A/71/PV.49 
29/11/2016
international law and human rights, and other practices 
by the occupying Power.
Today’s report describes a regrettable humanitarian 
situation  in  the  occupied  territories,  which  should 
prompt us to act swiftly to help the Palestinian people, 
who  are  victims  of  the  occupation,  injustice  and  the 
belligerent policies of Israeli authorities attempting to 
change the demographic and geographic composition of 
the Palestinian territories through forced displacements, 
the confiscation of land and property and the flouting of 
international customs, including attacks on the sanctity 
of tombs.
Kuwait  supports  the  efforts  of  the  international 
community to reach a lasting and comprehensive solution 
to  the  Palestinian  question  based  on  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative, international law and the relevant resolutions 
of international legality. We welcome France’s initiative 
to convene an international peace conference that would 
lead  to  an  international  multilateral  mechanism  to 
eliminate the illegal settlements and Israel’s occupation 
of  Palestinian  land,  in  the  framework  of  the  right  of 
Palestinians  to  self-determination,  thereby  making 
it  possible  for  the  Palestinian  people  to  establish  an 
independent  State  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
within the pre-1967 boundaries.
We must understand that the practices and policies 
imposed  upon  the  defenceless  Palestinians  by  the 
Israeli authorities in the occupied territories are illegal, 
as are the blockade on the Gaza Strip, which has been 
in  force  since  2007,  the  restrictions  that  prevent  the 
free  flow  of  persons  and  goods,  and  the  confiscation 
of land. Those are all policies aimed at undermining a 
two-State solution and at entrenching the occupation.
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  recall  the  State  of 
Kuwait’s principled position. The question of Palestine 
has always been a priority item at the United Nations, 
as it reflects the cause of a people who have suffered for 
decades from the occupation and have been deprived of 
their  most  fundamental  rights,  their  dignity  and  their 
freedom.  We  pay  tribute  to  the  Palestinian  people’s 
stoicism  and  their  struggle  to  secure  their  legitimate 
political  rights,  in  particular  the  establishment  of 
an  independent  State  on  their  territory  with  East 
Jerusalem as their capital. We are in favour of setting 
a  deadline  for  ending  the  Israeli  occupation  in  the 
Palestinian territories.
Secondly,  we  condemn  the  continuation  of  the 
inhumane  and  illegal  blockade  imposed  on  the  Gaza 
Strip,  which  is  a  violation,  among  so  many  others 
by  Israel,  of  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  Security 
Council, in particular Security Council resolution 1860 
(2009) and Israel’s obligations under the Fourth Geneva 
Convention of 1949. We call for the immediate end of 
the blockade.
Thirdly,  we  call  for  the  freeing  of  imprisoned 
and  detained  Palestinians  and  the  setting  up  of  an 
international  commission  to  establish  the  facts  and 
conduct  investigations  on  the  situation  in  Israeli 
prisons  in  order  to  verify  that  Israel  is  respecting 
international law.
Fourthly, we are in favour of Palestine’s request for 
full membership in the United Nations, as a step that 
would promote a lasting and comprehensive settlement 
of  the  Israeli-Palestine  conflict.  We  also  support 
Palestine’s  determination  to  accede  to  international 
organizations and conventions, as is its right.
Fifthly,  we  call  on  the  international  community, 
in  particular  on  the  Security  Council,  to  provide 
international protection to the Palestinian people, who 
are defenceless against the Israeli war machine.
Sixthly,  we  call  on  all  parties,  especially  those 
that  sponsor  the  peace  process  in  the  Middle  East,  to 
continue  the  efforts  that  have  been  agreed  on  and  to 
ensure that Israel abides by the norms of international 
law.  In  that  context,  we  recall  the  responsibility  that 
the United Nations and its bodies shoulder with regard 
to  the  Palestinian  cause,  including  the  equitable  and 
comprehensive  settlement  of  all  relevant  issues,  in 
particular that of Palestinian refugees.
to  assume 
its  responsibility,  uphold 
In  conclusion,  we  urgently  call  on  the  Security 
Council 
its 
resolutions,  hold  Israel  to  its  obligation  to  end  its 
flagrant  violations  of  international  humanitarian  law 
in the occupied territories and implement the relevant 
United  Nations  resolutions,  in  particular  Security 
Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973), 1397 (2002) 
and  1515  (2003),  so  as  to  achieve  a  just  and  lasting 
peace in the Middle East.
Ms. Bahous (Jordan) (spoke in Arabic): I thank the 
Chair and members of the Committee on the Exercise of 
the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People for their 
important  role  and  their  ongoing  work  over  the  years 
in  drawing  international  attention  to  the  rights  of  the 
Palestinian people and their cause, while highlighting 
the injustice and suffering that they face.
16/25 
16-40519
29/11/2016 
A/71/PV.49
Every year, we gather here in this Hall to draw the 
attention  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community  to  the  question  of  Palestine  as  we  renew 
our commitment of continued support to ensure that the 
Palestinian people are able to exercise their inalienable 
rights,  in  particular  their  right  to  self-determination 
and  the  return  of  Palestinian  displaced  persons  and 
refugees  to  their  territory  and  property.  Despite  the 
importance  of  today’s  meeting,  we  are  nevertheless 
preoccupied  by  the  poignant  situation  on  the  ground 
and Israel’s violation of the rights of Palestinians in the 
Palestinian occupied territories. I believe that requires 
something more substantial than celebrating a Day of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People. Rather, concrete 
measures should be taken to end the Israeli occupation 
and stop ongoing violations that threaten the viability 
of a two-State solution and undermine any possibility 
of achieving a lasting and comprehensive peace in the 
region.  Settlement  activities  pose  one  of  the  major 
risks  to  such  a  peace  that  must  be  addressed,  not  to 
speak of the demolitions of homes, the displacement of 
Palestinians and the raids on holy sites. That is not only 
a red line for Palestinians and Jordan, but a set of issues 
that impedes a two-State solution.
I would like to renew our unconditional commitment 
to  continue  our  legal  and  historical  right  to  provide 
protection  to  the  Al-Aqsa  Mosque  and  the  Al-Haram 
Al-Sharif in coordination with our brothers in the State 
of  Palestine  on  the  basis  of  the  historic  Hashemite 
custodianship carried out by His Majesty Abdullah II 
bin  Al-Hussein  over  Islamic  and  Christian  holy  sites 
in Al-Quds, and of Jordan’s right to provide them with 
protection.  We  must  stress  the  importance  of  today’s 
meeting,  because  it  confers  political  importance  to 
effectively reaching a peaceful solution with regard to 
the Palestinian cause. That is especially relevant given 
that  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  is  at  the  heart  of 
tensions in the region and requires a lasting, just and 
comprehensive  peace  based  on  a  two-State  solution, 
as  well  as  on  international  resolutions  and  the  Arab 
Peace Initiative.
Despite the increasing international support for the 
Palestinian cause, Israel continues to ignore and remain 
indifferent  to  the  determination  of  the  international 
community  to  end  the  settlement  activities,  lift  the 
blockade on the Gaza Strip and halt daily violations of 
Palestinians’  rights.  Owing  to  the  current  stalemate, 
we  must  redouble  efforts  and  consider  new  proposals 
to ensure that Israel ends its occupation of Palestinian 
territories.  That  is  the  only  path  that  will  lead  to 
Israel’s  security  and  acceptance  in  the  region.  In  that 
context, Jordan supports concrete international efforts, 
including  measures  aimed  at  building  trust  between 
the  Palestinian  and  Israeli  parties  and  a  peaceful 
environment  conducive 
resuming  substantive 
negotiations  with  the  goal  of  achieving  peace  for 
both peoples.
to 
We reaffirm the importance of providing protection 
to the Palestinian people, and we endorse the proposal 
that 2017 should be declared as the International Year to 
End Israeli Occupation. We reiterate the importance of 
Palestinian unity and reconciliation among the various 
Palestinian factions, which would eventually fulfil the 
requirements  voiced  by  the  international  community, 
enabling independence and a viable future Palestinian 
State within the pre-1967 borders with East Jerusalem 
as its capital.
The  Palestinian  cause  does  not  mean  only 
establishing  a  Palestinian  State  or  ending 
the 
settlements. In fact, the destiny of an entire people is 
at  the  heart  of  the  Palestinian  question.  We  have  to 
speak about their value and dignity as human beings, 
which  deserve  to  be  upheld.  Jordan  believes  that  the 
usurped rights of Palestinians must be recognized and 
restored  to  their  legal  owners.  Every  year  we  make 
further  efforts  in  the  various  international  forums  to 
restore the rights of the Palestinian people and to put 
an end to their suffering. There is no denying the fact 
that the absence of justice, the ongoing occupation and 
oppression of the Palestinian people and the deprivation 
of their legal rights are some of the main causes of the 
spread of extremist ideologies that lead to terrorism.
Our  support  for  the  Palestinian  people  will  not 
stop short on this International Day of Solidarity with 
the  Palestinian  People.  The  defence  of  their  rights  is 
at the heart of our regional and international efforts at 
all  levels.  Our  solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  people, 
as we draw the attention of the world to their suffering 
and  oppression,  is  not  limited  to  those  people  who 
have  remained  in  place.  Attention  must  also  focus  on 
the  millions  who  were  forced  from  their  homes  and 
displaced  from  their  lands  and  who  became  refugees 
or were displaced for decades. With that in mind, the 
international community must assume its responsibility 
and  its  ethical  and  humanitarian  duty  by  ending  the 
suffering of the Palestinians and ensuring their right of 
return and their entitlement to reparation, and by ending 
the Israeli violations and breaches of international law 
16-40519
17/25
A/71/PV.49 
29/11/2016
and  inducing  Israel  to  implement  the  relevant  United 
Nations resolutions.
Mr. Lal (India) I thank the President for convening 
this important discussion on the question of Palestine 
as we mark the International Day of Solidarity with the 
Palestinian People.
May  I  draw  attention  to  the  message  from  the 
Prime  Minister  of  India,  Mr.  Narendra  Modi,  which 
he issued on this important occasion. In his message, 
Prime Minister Modi reaffirms India’s support for the 
cause of Palestine and its solidarity with the Palestinian 
people  in  their  struggle  for  a  sovereign,  independent, 
viable and united State of Palestine living within secure 
and recognized borders, side by side and at peace with 
Israel and with East Jerusalem as its capital. He stated 
that  India  will  continue  to  support  the  development 
and  nation-building  efforts  of  Palestine  by  extending 
technical  and  financial  assistance.  India  has  been 
actively helping Palestine in its reconstruction process 
through various kinds of project assistance. India also 
contributes annually to the fund of the United Nations 
Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in 
the  Near  East  (UNRWA).  India  recently  increased  its 
contribution to UNRWA to $1.25 million. In addition, 
five projects undertaken in Palestine are being funded 
from the India-Brazil-South Africa Fund.
India reiterates its advocacy for a peaceful dialogue 
between Palestine and Israel, and is hopeful of its early 
resumption.On this important day, the Prime Minister 
has  furthermore  conveyed  that  our  best  wishes  will 
remain  with  people  of  the  State  of  Palestine  on  their 
journey towards achieving the objectives of a just cause.
Earlier  this  month,  India’s  Minister  of  State  for 
External  Affairs,  Mr.  M.  J.  Akbar,  visited  Palestine 
for  the  first  meeting  of  the  India-Palestine  Joint 
Commission.  The  Joint  Commission  will  facilitate 
further  cooperation  in  a  range  of  sectors,  including 
information  technology,  security,  youth  affairs  and 
sports,  education,  health,  agriculture,  tourism  and 
culture.  During  his  visit,  a  foundation  stone  was  laid 
for a $12 million Palestine-India Techno Park project in 
Ramallah. The project aims to contribute to Palestine’s 
economy, create jobs for Palestinian youth and facilitate 
expertise in the digital sector.
India  appreciates  the  commendable  work  done 
by  UNWRA  over  the  past  seven  decades.  India 
contributed $4 million to the National Early Recovery 
and Reconstruction Plan for Gaza. The Government of 
India also helped set up two vocational training centres 
in  Yatta  and  Hebron.  The  India-Palestine  Centre  for 
Excellence in Information Communication Technology 
and  Digital  Learning  and  the  Innovation  Centre  in 
Al-Quds University, Abu Dees, and its satellite Centre 
in Ramallah are fully functional now and, in July 2016, 
the first group of students graduated from the Centre.
More than 12,000 Palestinians have so far graduated 
from Indian universities. India offers 100 training slots 
in a range of sectors annually to Palestinians. That is in 
addition to 25 scholarships for higher education. India 
has also offered training to Palestinian security forces, 
Palestinian customs officials and diplomats.
Regrettably,  the  security  situation  continues  to 
deteriorate.  The  imperative  need  is  for  restraint  and 
moderation.  We  firmly  believe  that  dialogue  is  the 
only viable option in the search for a just, durable and 
comprehensive  peaceful  solution  of  the  Palestinian 
issue.  We  hope  that  both  sides  will  demonstrate  the 
necessary political will to return to the negotiations.
Mr. Fazeel (Maldives): The Republic of Maldives 
expresses its continued appreciation to Mr. Fodé Seck, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Senegal  to  the  United 
Nations and Chair of the Committee on the Exercise of 
the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, as well 
as to the Committee itself for the commendable work in 
the discharge of its mandate.
The  Republic  of  Maldives  expresses  its  grave 
concern regarding the escalating tensions in Palestine 
following the report (A/71/35) of the Committee on the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People.  The  report  covers  the  further  deterioration  of 
the security and humanitarian situation in the occupied 
Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, during 
the  reporting  period,  from  October  2015  to  October 
2016. The report also raised serious concerns about the 
protection of civilians, including children.
We have observed a series of worrying events and 
trends  emerging  since  the  upsurge  in  violence  that 
began  in  October  2015  in  the  West  Bank,  including 
East  Jerusalem.  During  the  escalation  of  violence, 
more than 230 Palestinians and 32 Israelis were killed. 
In  addition,  the  report  (A/70/836)  of  the  Secretary-
General on children and armed conflict issued in April 
highlights the increasing number of Palestinian children 
arrested  and  detained  by  the  Israeli  occupying  forces 
and prosecuted by juvenile military courts in the West 
Bank. At the end of 2015, 422 Palestinian minors under 
18/25 
16-40519
29/11/2016 
A/71/PV.49
18 years, of whom at least 116 were between the ages 
of 12 and 15, were being held in detention by the Israeli 
authorities.  The  response  of  the  Israeli  authorities  to 
offences by Palestinian minors is frequently carried out 
with disproportionate and deadly force.
Violence begets violence. Situations of hopelessness, 
desolation and despair can breed only contempt, which 
will  eventually  be  manifested  in  violence.  Lasting 
peace will not, and cannot, be assured unless the hope 
of a peaceful future is secured now for all the children 
of the region.
detention, 
punitive 
Maldives  condemns 
restrictions  and  other  measures 
the  continued  use  of 
demolitions, 
administrative 
movement 
that 
negatively  affect  the  human  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people on a continuous basis, as reported by the Special 
Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  the 
occupied Palestinian territories. The Israeli occupying 
forces continued to carry out frequent military raids and 
incursions injuring and killing hundreds of Palestinians, 
including children, with more than 6,000 Palestinians 
held in Israeli prisons and detention centres.
Furthermore,  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  violence 
against women, its causes and consequences has noted 
that  specific  groups  of  women  in  Israel,  including 
women from the Palestinian minority, asylum seekers 
and  refugees,  face  multiple  forms  of  discrimination 
and  heightened  risk  of  violence.  Israeli  authorities 
have  repeatedly  rejected  the  request  by  the  Special 
Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  the 
Palestinian  territory  occupied  since  1967  to  conduct 
a  mission  to  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory.  In 
addition,  the  Special  Rapporteur  notes  in  his  report 
(see A/71/554) that the two preceding mandate-holders 
were  similarly  refused  access.  Maldives  affirms  that 
the  missions  of  the  special  rapporteurs  are  essential 
for  the  comprehensive  and  independent  fact-finding 
that is required for a true analysis of the human rights 
situation on the ground.
the 
Maldives  notes  with  concern 
increasing 
number of house demolitions being carried out by the 
Israeli military offensive in the West Bank, including 
in East Jerusalem, and the development of new Israeli 
legislation  to  permit  the  confiscation  of  privately 
owned  Palestinian  lands  and  to  enable  more  than 
100 outposts in the occupied West Bank to be legally 
repurposed  for  Israeli  settlement  activity.  Enacting 
that  legislation  could  violate  international  law,  while 
undermining  Palestinians’  right  to  self-determination 
and  violating  their  rights  to  property,  freedom  of 
movement and development.
Similarly,  the  situation  remains  dire  in  Gaza, 
where  there  is  an  urgent  need  to  repair  and  rebuild 
the  thousands  of  houses  that  have  been  damaged  and 
destroyed. However, the continuing Israeli blockade of 
Gaza  has  prevented  the  long-overdue  reconstruction 
there,  and  it  continues  to  obstruct  the  movement 
of  persons  and  goods,  including  access  for  critical 
humanitarian aid. Maldives therefore urges the United 
Nations  community  to  identify  concrete  measures 
that could be taken to lift the blockade and allow the 
situation to improve.
Maldives  welcomes  the  continuing  work  of  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East  in  providing  emergency 
humanitarian  assistance  in  spite  of  serious  financial 
challenges.  In  the  past  year,  relief  was  provided  to 
over  1.2  million  refugees,  primarily  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory  and  in  Syria.  We  urge  the 
international  community  to  support  the  agency  in  its 
humanitarian work.
Twenty-three years ago the first Oslo Accord was 
signed  between  Israel  and  the  Palestine  Liberation 
Organization.  Both  entities  recognized  each  other 
and  laid  the  groundwork  for  a  solution  based  on  two 
independent  States.  However,  the  reality  is  that  two 
years have passed since the process of negotiation was 
interrupted, and an indisputable marginalization of the 
two-State solution has ensued. Maldives calls on all the 
parties  involved  to  work  consistently  to  unblock  the 
peace  process.  In  order  for  the  two  States  to  coexist, 
progress  towards  reconciliation  without  preconditions 
is  essential.  Maldives  is  a  firm  supporter  of  the  two-
State  solution  and  the  recognition  of  a  sovereign  and 
independent  State  of  Palestine  based  on  the  pre-1967 
borders  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  and  it 
encourages the parties to resume direct negotiations in 
order to achieve lasting peace.
On 29 November, the countries of the world come 
together  to  commemorate  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People. Maldives urges 
the international community to move beyond rhetoric, 
to  take  steps  towards  a  genuine,  lasting  peace  in  the 
region and to steadfastly support the Palestinian people.
Mr.  Rivero  Rosario  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Before  beginning  my  statement  on  the  topic  of  this 
16-40519
19/25
A/71/PV.49 
29/11/2016
meeting, I wish to express deep appreciation on behalf 
of  my  delegation,  my  Government  and  the  Cuban 
people for the moving words and respect expressed with 
regard to the former President and leader of the Cuban 
Revolution, Head of State and Commander Fidel Castro 
Ruz. He was not only a friend, but a tireless warrior for 
self-determination and for the rights of the Palestinian 
people.  I  also  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  to  everyone 
present  for  the  message  and  respect  addressed  to  the 
Cuban people.
We  wish  to  thank  His  Excellency  Ambassador 
Fodé  Seck,  Chair  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise 
of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, for 
preparing the report (A/71/35) and for the opportunity 
to hear a statement by the Rapporteur of the Committee, 
Ambassador Carmelo Inguanez.
The  numerous  violations  of  international  law,  in 
particular  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  law, 
committed by Israel, the occupying Power, since 1967 in 
its almost 50 years of foreign military occupation of the 
occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem 
and the Syrian Golan, continued and increased during 
the period under consideration. Israel has deliberately 
and systematically maintained all of its illegal policies 
and  practices,  which  have  led  to  widespread  human 
suffering  and  destabilized  the  situation.  They  have 
caused deaths and injuries among Palestinian civilians 
in a sustained cycle of violence; the arrest and detention 
of  Palestinians,  including  children;  the  displacement 
and forced relocation of Palestinians; provocations and 
instigations,  particularly  in  occupied  East  Jerusalem; 
and a wide-ranging network of collective punishment.
Israel  has  continued  its  campaign  of  establishing 
illegal settlements throughout the West Bank, including 
East Jerusalem. Over the past year, the construction and 
expansion of settlements and the wall, the relocation of 
Israeli settlers and the confiscation of land and natural 
resources,  the  demolition  of  houses  and  the  forced 
displacement  of  the  Palestinian  civilian  population 
continued  as  before,  and  even  intensified,  which  has 
contributed to the fragmented nature of the Palestinian 
territory and seriously affected the viability of the two-
State solution based on pre-1967 borders.
The  critical  situation  resulting  from  the  blockade 
of the Gaza Strip by air, land and sea is mentioned in 
the  report,  which  reflects  the  fact  that  the  blockade 
is  responsible  for  the  near-total  isolation  and  grave 
privation  of  the  2  million  Palestinian  civilians  who 
reside  in  the  area.  A  serious  humanitarian  crisis 
persists in Gaza, and socioeconomic conditions are at 
their lowest levels since the occupation began in 1967, 
resulting  in  an  extremely  difficult  and  unsustainable 
situation that requires an immediate solution.
Cuba has historically maintained its firm support 
for, and solidarity with, the just cause of the Palestinian 
people,  based  on  clear  and  unequivocal  principles  in 
favour  of  self-determination.  We  vigorously  support 
all  efforts  aimed  at  promoting  a  just  and  lasting 
solution  to  the  conflict  between  Israel  and  Palestine, 
which  inexorably  demands  the  genuine  exercise  of 
the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to build 
their own State within the pre-1967 borders with East 
Jerusalem as their capital.
illegal 
Israeli  occupation  of 
Cuba reiterates its call for an end to the prolonged 
and 
the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  the  immediate,  unconditional 
and complete lifting of the cruel and illegal blockade of 
the Gaza Strip and the opening of border crossings and 
checkpoints,  to  give  free  access  to  humanitarian  aid 
and to allow the movement of goods and people to and 
from the Gaza Strip. Israel’s illegal actions constitute a 
grave violation of international law and again reaffirm 
the  applicability  of  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  including  East 
Jerusalem,  and  other  Arab  territories  under  Israeli 
occupation  since  1967,  requiring  Israel’s  acceptance 
of the de jure applicability of the Convention. Israel’s 
continuing 
implementation  of  such  policies  runs 
contrary to the objectives of the peace process.
In  this  scenario,  it  must  not  be  forgotten  that 
situations  related  to  geography  require  solutions  and 
can also affect the possibility of achieving peace. We 
need a comprehensive, just and lasting solution to the 
question of the city of Jerusalem that takes into account 
the  legitimate  concerns  of  the  Palestinian  and  Israeli 
sides,  and  that  Israel’s  imposition  of  its  legislation, 
jurisdiction  and  administration  in  Jerusalem  and  the 
occupied  Syrian  Golan  is  not  only  null  and  void,  but 
contrary to a successful peace process. In that context, 
we consider it extremely necessary to continue working 
with the United Nations in seeking greater clarity within 
the  international  community  regarding  the  persistent 
and growing dangers in Palestine and the Middle East 
of the failure to find a just and lasting solution to the 
conflict between the two countries.
20/25 
16-40519
29/11/2016 
A/71/PV.49
The  commendable  work  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People  must  continue.  The  Secretariat’s  Division 
for  Palestinian  Rights  must  maintain  its  useful  and 
constructive  contribution  to  forging  an  international 
consensus on the question of Palestine and the urgency 
of reaching a peaceful settlement of the issue. As our 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  proposed  today  in  his 
message in solidarity with the Palestinian people, the 
international  community  must  therefore  not  remain 
impassive  to  such  abuses  and  violations.  We  call  on 
all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  make 
every possible effort to resume and support a process 
guaranteeing  a  comprehensive, 
lasting 
peace  based  on  the  two-State  solution,  within  the 
internationally recognized pre-1967 borders and based 
on the Arab Peace Initiative.
just  and 
Moreover,  as  the  Cuban  Minister  indicated  in  his 
message,  the  Security  Council  must  take  practical 
steps  without  further  delay  to  ensure  that  Israel  ends 
its  aggression  against  the  Palestinian  people  and  is 
held accountable for the crimes of violence, collective 
punishment,  arbitrary  detention,  mass  incarceration 
and  genocide  committed  against  that  people.  It  must 
forthwith  take  action  and  accept  the  request  for 
recognition  as  a  State  Member  of  the  United  Nations 
submitted by Palestine in 2011, in line with the desire 
expressed by the great majority of States. The historic 
debt  to  the  Palestinian  people  is  enormous  and  must 
be settled.
Cuba reaffirms its indefatigable solidarity with the 
Palestinian  people  and  its  determination  to  continue 
supporting them in their legitimate struggle for justice 
and dignity and in defence of their inalienable right to 
self-determination and sovereignty in the independent 
State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as its capital.
Mrs. Rubiales de Chamorro (Nicaragua) (spoke in 
Spanish): On behalf of the people and the Government 
of  Nicaragua  and  President  Commander  Daniel 
Ortega  Saavedra,  we  greet  this  day  of  29  November, 
the 
the 
Palestinian People.
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with 
Nicaragua  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made  on  behalf  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of 
the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People and the 
report  (A/71/35)  introduced  by  Ambassador  Carmelo 
Inguanez, Rapporteur of the Committee.
Following  the  triumph  of  our  revolution  in  1979, 
Nicaragua officially recognized the State of Palestinian, 
established  diplomatic  relations  with  its  authorities, 
and strengthened the fraternal relations of cooperation 
and  solidarity  between  our  peoples,  who  have  spent 
many  years  fighting  for  national  liberation.  We  are 
proud  to  celebrate  over  four  decades  of  friendship 
and solidarity in which Nicaragua has recognized the 
struggle of the Palestinian people as its own. We share 
the same suffering and the same oppression, and ever 
since  Nicaragua  attained  peace  we  have  committed 
ourselves to corresponding with the Palestinian people, 
continually  recalling  that  in  our  most  difficult  times, 
they were always with us.
I  should  like  to  quote  from  the  greeting  of  our 
President,  Commander  Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra,  on 
the  day  of  the  anniversary  of  the  independence  of 
Palestine  on  this  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with 
the Palestinian People:
“I take this opportunity to renew our vows of 
solidarity with the struggle of the heroic Palestinian 
people, which has stoically resisted aggression and 
the violation of their rights. We are confident that, 
with the help of God, it will very soon be possible 
to  establish,  through  dialogue  and  negotiation, 
the  basis  for  a  lasting  solution,  the  international 
recognition of Palestine and its full membership of 
the United Nations.”
In  solidarity,  commitment  and  brotherhood,  we 
welcome  the  Palestinian  leaders’  initiative  to  declare 
2017 the year of the end of the occupation of Palestine, 
and  reiterate  our  support  for  initiatives  to  ensure 
Palestine its right to a sovereign State, within the pre-
1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital, and to 
enable the two States, Palestine and Israel, to coexist in 
peace, harmony and prosperity.
Nicaragua welcomes the initiatives of the Russian 
Federation,  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  the  Egyptian 
initiative  and  the  French  initiative.  We  regret  Israel’s 
refusal  to  participate  in  the  peace  conference,  which 
demonstrates  its  lack  of  interest  in  a  negotiated,  just 
and  lasting  solution.  It  is  imperative  to  put  an  end  to 
the  occupation  and  demand  the  immediate  cessation 
of  settlement  construction,  an  end  to  the  criminal 
blockade of Gaza and the total release of all Palestinian 
prisoners. The Security Council, obstructing the two-
State  solution  through  the  use  and  abuse  of  the  veto 
on  the  part  of  one  of  its  permanent  members,  and 
16-40519
21/25
A/71/PV.49 
29/11/2016
promoting  Israel’s  impunity,  continues  to  perpetuate 
the suffering of the Palestinian people in the occupied 
territories  and  of  more  than  5.5  million  Palestinians 
refugees worldwide, whom we offer our full solidarity.
At  the  moment  when  the  implementation  of 
for  Sustainable  Development  and 
2030  Agenda 
the  achievement  of 
the  Sustainable  Development 
Objectives  are  urgently  needed,  Palestine,  like  every 
other State, has every right to receive development aid 
and investment. But if we allow Israel’s endless, vicious 
cycle  of  mass  destruction  and  massacres  to  continue, 
the help of the international community will serve only 
to  help  that  people  eke  out  a  survival.  We  encourage 
Member  States  to  secure  the  necessary  funds  for  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East  and  to  support  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  in  its 
efforts to meet the costs of the occupation.
Nicaragua and the State of Palestine recently signed 
in 2016 a memorandum of understanding to strengthen 
actions  that  benefit  both  peoples  and  Governments 
with a view to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, and to strengthen peace 
and  the  rule  of  law,  enhance  communication  and 
information technology, and promote health, education 
and the exchange of experiences among young people 
of both nations, which are very important.
We  will  continue  to  fight  until  Palestine  enjoys 
its  independence,  sovereignty  and  freedom  and  is 
recognized, as it deserves to be, as a full Member of the 
United Nations.
Mr. García Moritán (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): 
Argentina  wishes  to  make  a  statement  concerning 
agenda items 34 and 35, “The situation in the Middle 
East”  and  “The  question  of  Palestine”,  respectively, 
which my country follows with great concern.
Almost 70 years have passed since the establishment 
of  the  State  of  Israel  and  the  adoption  of  resolution 
181  (II),  which  established  the  Palestine  Plan  of 
Partition,  and  almost  50  years  since  the  beginning  of 
the  occupation  of  the  Gaza  Strip,  East  Jerusalem  and 
the  West  Bank.  Since  then,  we  have  seen  numerous 
peace initiatives, from the Madrid Conference in 1991 
to  the  failed  attempt  to  resume  negotiations  in  2013, 
none of which have achieved a just, comprehensive and 
lasting peace on the basis of a two-State solution, with 
a State of Israel and a State of Palestine coexisting side 
by side in peace and security, on the basis of the 1967 
borders and whatever the parties may determine in the 
negotiation process.
Despite  the  efforts  made  during  these  years,  the 
situation  continues  to  be  characterized  by  recurring 
cycles of violence and intolerance, without a short-term 
horizon for progress. That is why it is urgent to renew 
efforts  aimed  at  reversing  the  current  negative  trends 
on the ground through actions taken by both parties, as 
well as responsible and committed action taken by the 
Security Council.
Argentina reaffirms its support for the right of the 
Palestinian people to establish an independent and viable 
State recognized by all nations, as well as the right of 
the State of Israel to live in peace with its neighbours 
within secure and internationally recognized borders.
Argentina reiterates its concern about the persistent 
and continuing growth of illegal Israeli settlements in 
the  occupied  Palestinian  territories  and  calls  for  an 
end  to  their  expansion.  As  the  General  Assembly  has 
repeatedly  indicated,  the  settlements  are  contrary  to 
international law, obstruct peace, weaken the prospect 
of  a  two-State  solution  of  States  living  in  peace  and 
security, and therefore promote the perpetuation of an 
unsustainable status quo.
Argentina  considers  it  unacceptable  for  Hamas 
and other Palestinian groups to launch attacks against 
Israeli  civilians.  The  launching  of  rockets  against 
Israel  from  the  Gaza  Strip  must  cease  immediately. 
My  country  strongly  condemns  all  terrorist  acts  and 
is  convinced  that  there  is  no  military  solution  to  the 
conflict,  nor  is  there  a  solution  that  can  be  imposed 
by  terrorist  means.  Palestinian  leaders  must  sincerely 
address  Israeli  security  concerns.  At  the  same  time, 
we  note  with  concern  that  Israel’s  response  to  the 
situation is almost exclusively focused on the security 
dimension,  including  cases  of  excessive  use  of  force 
by Israeli forces in the context of attacks and alleged 
attacks  conducted  by  Palestinians  and  in  combat,  as 
well as in the continued violence of the settlers.
With  regard  to  the  situation  in  East  Jerusalem, 
Argentina reaffirms the special status of Jerusalem in 
accordance  with  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions, 
and  in  that  regard  rejects  any  unilateral  attempt  to 
modify  it,  in  particular  with  regard  to  the  Old  City, 
which  has  a  special  meaning  for  the  three  great 
monotheistic  religions.  My  country  believes  that  the 
Holy City should be a place of convergence and peace, 
and that free access to holy sites must be guaranteed for 
22/25 
16-40519
29/11/2016 
A/71/PV.49
faithful Jews, Muslims and Christians. Any attempt to 
deny or relativize the historical link and the profound 
meaning  of  those  places  for  the  three  religions  is 
completely  unacceptable,  does  not  contribute  to  the 
objective of finding a peaceful solution to the conflict, 
and reinforces negative prejudices and mistrust between 
the parties.
In  a  world  that  continues  to  witness  cross-border 
terrorist  acts,  we  believe  that  achieving  a  lasting 
solution  to  the  Palestinian  question  would  contribute 
significantly  to  providing  stability  to  that  part  of  the 
world, which is in such upheaval. That is why we deplore 
the inflammatory rhetoric of extremists on both sides.
Collective  efforts  are  required  for  a  two-State 
solution,  as  set  out  in  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  of  the  Security  Council,  the 
road map and the Arab Peace Initiative.
My country’s identity has been shaped by interaction 
among  communities  of  different  origins,  ethnicities 
and  religions,  where  Christians,  Jews  and  Muslims 
live  in  harmony.  It  was  Maestro  Daniel  Barenboim, 
an  Argentinian-Israeli  musician  and  a  Palestinian 
by  adoption,  who  in  1999  founded  the  West-Eastern 
Divan  Orchestra  to  promote  intercultural  dialogue 
through  music.  In  February,  the  Secretary-General 
designated  the  Orchestra  as  a  United  Nations  Global 
Advocate for Cultural Understanding in recognition of 
its contribution to breaking down barriers and building 
bridges between communities. The Orchestra is proof 
that dialogue among different communities and cultures 
is possible and necessary.
Aware that nothing is easy and that nothing happens 
overnight,  Argentina  wishes  once  again  to  call  on 
Palestinians and Israelis to resume peace talks, acting 
in good faith, with flexibility and in accordance with 
international law, with a view to reaching an agreement 
on  outstanding  issues  concerning  the  final  status  of 
Palestine in all its aspects.
Mr. Paolino (Paraguay) (spoke in Spanish): As we 
commemorate another anniversary of the International 
Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People, Uruguay 
echoes  the  wish  expressed  by  other  Members  of  the 
Organization  that  we  shall  soon  witness  the  long-
sought  peace  that  will  allow  that  people  to  enjoy 
their  legitimate  right  to  be  part  of  a  sovereign  and 
independent Palestinian State.
Almost  70  years  ago,  the  General  Assembly 
adopted resolution 181 (II), which sought the partition 
of  Palestine  and  the  creation  of  an  Arab  State  and  a 
Jewish State. Uruguay strongly supported that solution 
and  was  convinced  that  it  would  allow  Israel  and 
Palestine to live in peace within secure borders. Today, 
Uruguay  wishes  to  reaffirm  once  again  the  right  of 
Israel and Palestine to live in peace within secure and 
internationally recognized borders, in an environment 
of  renewed  cooperation  and  free  from  any  threat  or 
action  that  could  undermine  peace.  Uruguay  also 
reiterates  its  support  for  a  solution  consisting  of  two 
independent  States.  We  are  convinced  that  this  is  the 
only way that will allow for the peaceful coexistence of 
Israel and Palestine.
Uruguay  has  strong  ties  of  friendship  with  the 
State  of  Israel  and  with  the  State  of  Palestine.  Their 
full  membership  in  the  Organization  and  their  full 
enjoyment of the self-determination of their people are 
the logical consequences of the process that has been 
under  way  since  it  was  recognized  as  a  full-fledged 
State.  It  is  a  full-fledged  State  capable  of  completely 
eliminating  terrorism  from  its  territory  and  living 
in  peace  with  the  State  of  Israel  and  other  States  in 
the region.
In  that  belief,  very  early  on  Uruguay  recognized 
the State of Israel and later, when we determined that 
the  inconclusive  process  could  not  continue  to  drag 
on, the State of Palestine. Many other Latin American 
States did the same. Today, our country has embassies 
in  Israel  and  Palestine,  and  both  countries  have 
embassies in Uruguay. It is crucial for the international 
community to step up its efforts, assist in the process 
and encourage the parties to return to the negotiating 
table in order to achieve a peaceful, fair, negotiated and 
lasting solution that is in line with international law and 
takes the interests of both nations into account.
that  regard, 
the  parties  must  create 
In 
the 
conditions  necessary  for  the  implementation  of  the 
recommendations  of  the  most  recent  Quartet  report 
aimed  at  resuming  negotiations  among  them,  as  well 
as  actions  and  policies  that  demonstrate  their  firm 
commitment  to  the  two-State  solution.  In  the  same 
vein, the parties must refrain from adopting unilateral 
decisions 
their 
obligations under international law.
that  hinder  dialogue  and  honour 
Uruguay remains concerned about the decision of 
the Israeli authorities to pursue settlement construction. 
16-40519
23/25
A/71/PV.49 
29/11/2016
Under international law, the settlements are illegal and 
run counter to the recommendations of the Quartet for 
Middle  East  Peace.  Uruguay  encourages  the  State  of 
Israel to stop building illegal settlements, confiscating 
land  and  destroying  Palestinian  homes.  Incitement 
to  violence  and  the  glorification  of  terrorist  acts 
are  equally  worrisome.  It  is  crucial  for  Israeli  and 
Palestinian authorities to send clear political signals in 
order to break the vicious circle of misunderstandings 
and  violent  clashes  that  have  plagued  the  region  time 
and again.
More than two years since the last military conflict 
in the Gaza Strip, which ended tragically with thousands 
dead  and  injured  amid  widespread  destruction  of 
catastrophic  proportions,  the  humanitarian  situation 
remains intolerable and aggravated by a blockade that 
exacerbates  the  violence  arising  from  the  impatience 
and  expectations  of  almost  2  million  inhabitants  who 
languish in poverty and unemployment and have very 
little hope for the future. Uruguay is concerned that if 
the current trend continues, the two-State solution will 
no longer be viable. For that reason, Uruguay reaffirms 
its willingness to continue working in order to resume 
the  peace  process  through  all  existing  initiatives  to 
break the status quo and, in that way, make progress in 
the peace talks.
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  While 
we commend the United Nations system, the Secretariat 
and  helpful  and  supportive  Member  States  for  their 
tireless  efforts  to  reduce  the  plight  of  the  Palestinian 
people, we note with grave concern the latest disturbing 
developments  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory, 
as  reflected  in  the  documents  under  consideration 
today.  We  regret  that  the  efforts  made  so  far  by  the 
international community have mostly failed or proven 
inadequate  due  to  the  intransigence  of  the  Israeli 
regime  and  its  continued  unlawful  and  criminal  acts 
and policies against the people of Palestine.
For  decades,  year  after  year,  the  United  Nations 
has condemned Israel for the various crimes it commits 
against  Palestine  and  its  people  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian territory. But that occupying regime, which 
enjoys  undeserved  support  from  a  handful  of  allies, 
continues  to  disregard  and  disrespect  the  persistent 
demands  of  the  international  community  to  abide  by 
international law. It is unfortunate that a host of criminal 
practices  and  policies  are  being  perpetrated  by  Israel 
with impunity and that the international community is 
yet to take any measure to address them.
The  systematic  violation  of  the  rights  of  the 
Palestinian people, including the demolition of homes, 
the  forced  displacement  of  Palestinian  civilians,  the 
arrest and detention of Palestinians, including children 
and incessant violence, terror and provocations by Israeli 
settlers and extremists, including at sensitive religious 
sites, particularly Al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem, have 
persisted  unabated.  At  the  same  time,  the  imposition 
of  the  illegal  blockade  on  the  Gaza  Strip  continues 
to  cause  massive  deprivation  and  hopelessness  and  is 
fuelling  a  grave  humanitarian  crisis.  As  such,  Israel 
deliberately and systematically violates each and every 
basic norm of international law, including international 
humanitarian law.
The  increasing  number  of  illegal  settlements  in 
Palestinian  territory,  which  constitute  not  only  grave 
breaches  of  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  but  war 
crimes, have long demonstrated that the Israeli regime 
has never had any interest in peace with the Palestinians. 
The  adverse  impacts  of  the  Israeli  occupation  and 
violations  of  the  rules  and  principles  of  international 
law  are 
inflicted  unbearable 
hardships on all aspects of the lives of the Palestinians, 
including from a socioeconomic perspective.
immense  and  have 
As  in  the  past,  the  situation  in  Palestine  requires 
urgent international attention and action. The continued 
illegal  and  brutal  Israeli  occupation  not  only  causes 
much  misery  for  the  Palestinian  people,  but  also  lies 
at  the  origin  of  various  tensions  in  the  Middle  East 
and dangerously inflames them in the region’s volatile 
situation,  with  far-reaching  and  serious  consequences 
for  international  peace  and  security.  While  Israeli 
criminal acts and policies are worsening and can trigger 
further  crises  at  any  moment,  the  extremely  fragile 
situation on the ground must be seriously addressed to 
avert further destabilization.
Regrettably and despite the clear global consensus 
on  the  illegality  of  Israeli  policies  and  practices  on 
Palestinian  territory,  the  Security  Council  continues 
to be paralysed, failing to uphold its obligations. That 
should change. The Security Council should shoulder its 
responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations 
and  international  law  to  compel  Israel  to  respect  the 
norms  of  international  law,  including  international 
humanitarian law, and to end its war crimes and human 
rights violations against the Palestinian people and its 
illegal occupation of the Palestinian land and the plight 
of the Palestinian refugees.
24/25 
16-40519
29/11/2016 
A/71/PV.49
I  would 
like 
to  conclude  by  reiterating 
the 
unwavering support of the people and Government of 
the Islamic Republic of Iran to the oppressed Palestinian 
nation.  Once  again,  we  assure  them  that  we  will  do 
everything in our power to help them realize the cause 
of a free and prosperous Palestine.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker on this item for this meeting.
The meeting rose at 6 p.m.
16-40519
25/25
