United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
43rd plenary meeting
Monday, 7 November 2016, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.43
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Mnatsakanyan 
(Armenia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 122 (continued)
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and other matters related to the Security Council
Mrs.  Chartsuwan  (Thailand):  Over  the  past  few 
decades,  during  which  we  have  witnessed  significant 
developments  in  terms  of  the  challenges  faced  by 
countries  around  the  world,  from  climate  change  to 
transnational  acts  of  violence,  Member  States  have 
relentlessly  engaged  in  coordinated  attempts  to  keep 
the  international  Organization  fit-for-purpose.  Those 
efforts will not be complete until the Security Council 
is  reformed  in  a  way  that  reflects  the  geopolitical 
realities  of  the  twenty-first  century.  That  endeavour 
has  long  been  and  remains  an  unfinished  task  of  the 
United Nations.
Thailand  joins  other  Member  States  in  that  effort 
and has been actively engaging in the intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform. We welcome 
the  progress  made  during  the  latest  session  of  those 
negotiations, in which elements of convergence emerged 
from  the  positions  and  proposals  of  Member  States, 
especially on the relationship between the Council and 
the General Assembly, the size of an enlarged Security 
Council and the working methods of the Council. Those 
elements  of  convergence  serve  to  inform  us  of  the 
direction that the reform is heading, as well as placing 
the remaining areas of Security Council reform high on 
the agenda for the next round of the negotiations.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  sincere 
appreciation 
to  Ms.  Sylvie  Lucas,  Permanent 
Representative of Luxembourg, for her hard work and 
dedication  throughout  the  previous  sessions  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  also  welcome  the 
appointment of Mr. Ion Jinga, Permanent Representative 
of  Romania,  and  Mr.  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Tunisia,  as  co-Chairs  of 
the upcoming session. On behalf of Thailand, I wish the 
two co-Chairs every success in the important task that 
lies ahead, and pledge my delegation’s full support and 
cooperation throughout the process. 
Allow  me  to  reiterate  Thailand’s  position  on  the 
following three key aspects.
First,  Thailand  strongly  supports  a  strengthened 
partnership  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly,  in  accordance  with  full  respect 
for  their  respective  functions,  authority,  powers  and 
competencies,  as  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  A  coordinated  effort  between  these 
two principal organs of the United Nations to cooperate 
not  only  reinforces  the  work  of  each  body,  but, 
more  importantly,  also  enhances  the  legitimacy  and 
transparency of the Security Council. A good example 
is  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  in  enhancing  the 
transparency and inclusiveness of the recent selection 
process  for  the  post  of  the  Secretary-General.  In  that 
regard,  Thailand  also  welcomes  the  ongoing  practice 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-36737 (E)
*1636737*
A/71/PV.43 
07/11/2016
of  monthly  meetings  between  the  Presidents  of  the 
General Assembly and the Security Council. We support 
the  institutionalization  of  that  practice  and  further 
encourage  dialogues  between  the  two  Presidents  on  a 
regular basis.
to  limit  the  use  of  the  veto  in  cases  involving  mass 
atrocities. Again, the purpose is to ensure accountability 
and to enhance the transparency of the Council, which 
acts  on  behalf  of  all  United  Nations  Members  in  the 
maintenance of international peace and security.
Secondly, Thailand firmly believes that the Council 
membership should be expanded to reflect the plurality 
and evolving realities of the United Nations membership. 
Enhancing  the  legitimacy  and  accountability  of  the 
Council,  as  well  as  strengthening  its  effectiveness, 
is a core objective of Security Council reform. A key 
element  in  achieving  those  goals  lies  in  an  enlarged 
Council with equitable geographical representation in 
its  membership.  In  line  with  the  view  expressed  by  a 
number of Member States, Thailand reaffirms its view 
that  the  size  of  a  reformed  Council  should  be  in  the 
mid-twenties.
In  regard  to  its  working  methods,  the  Security 
Council  should  consider,  at  the  earliest  opportunity, 
a  comprehensive  review  of  its  provisional  rules  of 
procedure,  which  were  last  revised  in  1982.  At  the 
same  time,  the  Council  is  encouraged  to  increase  its 
engagement  with  non-Council  members,  particularly 
on  complex  issues  with  a  broad  impact,  in  order  to 
ensure the Council’s accessibility and transparency to 
the  wider  membership.  Meanwhile,  the  focus  and  the 
limited time available to the Council should be wisely 
allocated  to  interactive  consultations,  dialogues  and 
exchanges of views, rather than to lengthy statements.
Thirdly, on areas where there are still divergences 
among  the  Member  States,  Thailand  would  like  to 
contribute  its  views  for  the  upcoming  session  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  On  categories  of 
membership,  we  reaffirm  our  view  that  an  interim 
category of membership should be introduced, whereby 
aspiring members could be re-elected immediately for a 
second term. A review would then be conducted during 
or following the second term of the possible expansion 
of  permanent  members  based  on  an  established  set 
of  conditions  and  criteria.  That  process  could  help 
Member States make an informed decision on the issue. 
We  also  invite  Member  States  with  similar  ideas  on 
an interim category to work together to come up with 
concrete requirements, criteria and parameters.
On the question of the veto, when casting a negative 
vote, permanent members should always explain to the 
broader  United  Nations  membership  the  rationale  for 
such a decision. Moreover, Thailand supports proposals 
The  previous  session  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  showed  some  progress  that  we  have 
made  in  Security  Council  reform,  and  reflected  the 
commitment  of  Member  States  to  the  issue.  Thailand 
reaffirms  its  readiness  to  further  contribute  to  future 
negotiations on the reform of the Security Council and 
the reform of the United Nations as a whole.
Ms. Agladze (Georgia): At the outset, I would like to 
extend my congratulations to Mr. Ion Jinga, Permanent 
Representative of Romania, and Mr. Mohamed Khaled 
Khiari, Permanent Representative of Tunisia, for their 
appointment as the co-Chairs of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform,  and  wish 
them  every  success.  I  assure  the  co-Chairs  of  my 
Mission’s  full  support  and  cooperation.  I  also  thank 
the former Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations, 
Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas,  Permanent  Representative 
of Luxembourg, for her dedicated work.
Along  with  other  countries  and  groups  of 
countries,  Georgia  submitted  its  own  proposal  on 
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  which  has  been 
included  in  the  framework  document.  Our  proposal 
covers  all  five  aspects  of  the  reform.  We  support  the 
reform of the Security Council in terms of its equitable 
representation  and  enlargement,  and  the  expansion 
of  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories 
of  membership,  which  will  increase  the  legitimacy, 
authority and credibility of the Council. Our particular 
priority is the allocation of two seats to the Group of 
Eastern European States, so that we have better regional 
representation and parity in the Council. While being 
open to further consultations, at this stage we see the 
future Security Council as being comprised of up to 25 
members.
the 
Furthermore,  we  stand  for 
inclusion  of 
smaller  States  in  decision-making  in  order  for  the 
basic international law principle of sovereign equality 
between  nations  to  be  more  explicitly  reflected  at 
the  core  of  the  international  security  architecture. 
However,  as  we  have  previously  noted,  we  believe 
that  equitable  representation  should  not  be  an  end  in 
itself. A meaningful reform should also imply reform 
of  the  use  of  the  veto,  the  working  methods  and  the 
2/25 
16-36737
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.43
decision-making principles of the Security Council, as 
well as greater accountability to the General Assembly. 
We  further  believe  that  there  must  be  more  openness 
in the work of the Council, so that its deliberations are 
made in a more transparent and democratic manner.
We  stand  ready  to  cooperate  with  the  co-Chairs 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  to  advance 
that process.
Mr.  Akbaruddin  (India):  I  wish  to  begin  by 
thanking  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
reiterating  today  his  commitment  to  the  critical  issue 
of Security Council reform (see A/71/PV.42). We also 
welcome  his  efforts  to  reach  out  to  Member  States 
so  early  during  the  seventy-first  session.  I  would 
also  like  to  congratulate  our  colleagues,  Ambassador 
Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari  of  Tunisia  and  Ambassador 
Ion  Jinga  of  Romania,  who  have  been  entrusted  with 
the  responsibility  to  co-chair  our  discussions.  I  wish 
them  success  in  that  important  task  and  pledge  my 
delegation’s full support for their work.
My delegation aligns itself with the statements made 
by the representative of St. Lucia on behalf of the L.69 
group of developing countries and by the representative 
of Germany on behalf of the Group of Four (see A/71/
PV.42). In addition, I would like to highlight a few other 
issues in my national capacity.
Many  times,  the  cause  of  human  suffering  is  our 
habit of attending to urgent tasks at the cost of important 
ones.  The  never-ending  carousel  of  discussions  on 
Security Council reforms leaves many of us perplexed, 
as actual crucial reform of the Security Council has been 
delayed, despite both its importance and its urgency. I 
would be preaching to the converted if I were to talk 
about the importance of the matter. There is, however, 
much more to say and ponder concerning the urgency 
of  the  issue  and  the  costs  of  our  inaction.  One  needs 
only to look at some of the Council’s decisions or lack 
of decisions on crucial issues of global importance. The 
inability to respond to humanitarian situations, terrorist 
threats  and  peacekeeping  vulnerabilities  during  this 
past year is part of the price that is being paid for our 
lack of progress on this critical matter.
The  global  governance  structure  for  addressing 
issues  of  international  peace  and  security,  which  we 
inherited in 1945, does not cease to surprise us with its 
persistent inability to effectively engage with the tasks 
at hand. On some issues pivotal to international security, 
such  as  Syria,  we  see  inaction.  On  other  situations, 
such  as  the  peacekeeping  crisis  in  South  Sudan,  we 
see  fragmented  action  that  is  not  implemented  even 
months after it was agreed upon. While our collective 
conscience is ravaged every day by terrorists in some 
region  or  another,  the  Security  Council  took  nine 
months  to  consider  whether  to  sanction  leaders  of 
terrorist  organizations  that  it  has  itself  designated  as 
terrorist entities. 
The  Security  Council  is  stuck  in  its  own  time 
warp and politics. It can only be described as working 
randomly on the basis of a mix of adhoc-ism, scrambling 
and  political  paralysis.  Need  one  say  more  about  the 
urgency of the need for the reform of that relic that has 
long been unresponsive to the needs of our time? The 
lack of representation in its membership — especially 
in the permanent category, which was decided 70 years 
ago   — increases its lack of legitimacy and credibility.
in 
Significant  work  was  accomplished 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  past  two 
sessions, especially in working towards a text during the 
sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly, under the 
stewardship  of  Ambassador  Rattray.  We  are  therefore 
happy that the President of the General Assembly today 
called  on  all  Member  States  to  engage  with  greater 
flexibility  in  a  process  leading  to  substantive  results. 
As they say, get the process in place and all good things 
will follow. We are hopeful that such a process will be 
put in place — a process that we can perhaps take the 
liberty of calling the Thomson process. Hopefully, the 
Thomson  process  can  help  us  move  from  discussions 
to negotiations under the stewardship of the co-Chairs.
For that to happen, it is normal practice to provide 
for a text. That will help us to understand the prospects 
for  convergence  on  all  issues,  as  well  as  delineating 
the  areas  of  divergence.  That  is  the  practice  that  has 
been  adopted  in  all  intergovernmental  negotiations 
in the General Assembly. It will clarify our thoughts, 
focus  on  all  issues  and  help  us  to  understand  in  an 
open,  transparent  and  comprehensive  manner  the 
correct picture of the current situation. In that regard, 
we  welcome  the  newly  founded  group  of  friends  on 
Security  Council  reform  as  a  move  to  reach  beyond 
long-established  groups  from  various  regions.  India 
has  joined  that  group.  We  hope  it  will  work  together 
with the aim of accelerating the negotiating process for 
a  meaningful  reform  of  the  Council,  based  on  agreed 
objectives. We encourage other Member States to join 
the Group.
16-36737
3/25
A/71/PV.43 
07/11/2016
It is time to break the impasse. It is time to reflect 
the  different  views  in  a  text,  so  that  everyone  can 
discern the trend lines and the trajectory of the thinking 
of Member States. In that manner, we can collectively 
do justice to both the urgency and the importance of the 
task of Security Council reform before us.
Mr.  Sevilla  Borja  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
There  is  no  higher  priority  in  the  work  of  the 
Assembly  than  that  of  reforming  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  especially  with  respect  to  making 
the  necessary  changes  in  the  structure  and  working 
methods  of  the  Security  Council.  That  is  also  true  of 
the relationship between the General Assembly and the 
Security Council. Regrettably, little progress has been 
made  over  the  past  long  20  years  since  we  began  to 
put forth proposals and negotiate issues relating to the 
subject. The process is eminently political and must be 
dealt with at the highest political levels when we make 
such decisions among States.
At present, we believe that we must not focus just 
on  procedural  issues,  on  negotiations  on  details  of  
language, nor on participation quotas or the number of 
permanent or non-permanent members. This matter has 
to do with something more substantial: a contemporary 
reading of history and the political will to realistically 
and  courageously  confront  the  complex  challenges  of 
today’s international agenda.
Now  is  the  right  time  to  equip  the  Organization 
to  uphold  the  responsibility  that  it  was  charged  with 
by  the  peoples  of  the  world  in  1945,  after  the  global 
conflagration.  We  have  passed  the  zenith  of  the  70 
years since  the signing of the San Francisco Charter. 
After long and complex negotiations, the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development was adopted, with its 17 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  In  Addis  Ababa,  the 
Action  Agenda  of  the  Third  International  Conference 
on Financing for Development was approved. In Paris, 
a  plan  to  fight  climate  change  was  agreed  on.  And 
with  no  opposing  vote,  we  just  adopted  resolution 
71/5,  condemning  the  embargo  against  Cuba,  one  of 
the  remaining  vestiges  of  the  Cold  War.  Last  month 
in Quito, the New Urban Agenda for the Twenty-first 
Century  was  adopted,  and  just  10  days  ago  the  First 
Committee  adopted  a  draft  resolution  on  convening 
a  conference  to  negotiate  a  binding  treaty  to  prohibit 
nuclear  weapons,  thus  beginning  the  democratization 
of  disarmament  as  well.  On  1  January  2017,  a  new 
Secretary-General, in whom we place high hopes, will 
begin his term.
After 20 years with no major successes on Security 
Council reform, there can now be a fresh start, given 
that,  as  I  just  said,  there  are  objective  conditions  for 
the  Organization  to  make  progress  on  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  Council  that  would  make  it  possible  to 
fulfil  two  basic  principles:  its  modernization  and 
its  democratization.  Modernization,  because 
the 
Dumbarton  Oaks  Conference  in  1944  and  the  Yalta 
Conference in February of 1945 — which gave rise to 
the  current  Article  27  of  the  Charter  —  consecrated 
the realities of the exercise of power and the dynamics 
of  international  politics  as  they  existed  at  the  time. 
Without the veto, the Organization could probably not 
have come into being or survived, especially during the 
tumultuous times of the East-West confrontation.
But today, now that the Cold War is behind us, a new 
era has begun in the real functioning of the international 
community,  which  has  its  legal  organization  in  the 
United  Nations.  A  new  situation  in  international 
relations  has  been  created  with  the  incorporation  of 
States  that  were  not  among  the  original  signatories 
of  the  Charter.  We  are  living  in  a  time  of  searches 
for  consensus,  of  patient  negotiations  with  a  view  to 
reaching shared positions in the Security Council, the 
only body that can approve the legitimate use of force. 
Today, in this new stage, we believe that it is possible to 
find creative and imaginative alternatives to overcome 
the undemocratic institution of the veto, which is, as I 
have stated, a remnant of the past.
That leads us to the second principle of our vision 
of change: democratization. Let us recall that the first 
is  modernization.  We  cannot  continue  to  allow  there 
to  be  first-class  and  second-class  States.  We  cannot 
improve the overall functioning of the Security Council 
by giving more States the veto. We must instead employ 
new working methods, incorporating States from those 
groups  that  are  inadequately  represented  and  striking 
a  balance  in  the  relationship  between  the  Security 
Council and the General Assembly.
We  must  aspire  to  a  Security  Council  that  is 
more  democratic  in  its  membership  and  in  its  actions 
by  increasing  the  number  of  members,  making  the 
decision-making process transparent within the limits 
of the powers conferred on that organ by the Charter, 
working  to  eliminate  the  anachronistic  right  of  the 
veto and revitalizing the role of the General Assembly 
as the sole body in the United Nations with universal 
membership.
4/25 
16-36737
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.43
To  conclude,  Ecuador  reiterates  that  the  main 
challenge before us is reform of the Security Council that 
is based on its modernization and its democratization. 
Furthermore, with a view to progressing towards that 
ideal,  we  must  involve  the  highest  political  level  of 
Governments.  Secretary-General-designate  António 
Guterres  can  play  an  important  role  in  creating 
momentum 
thereby 
overcoming the past 20 years of frustrated efforts.
towards  achieving 
that  goal, 
Mr.  Mažeiks  (Latvia):  I  thank  the  President  for 
convening  this  debate.  At  the  2005  World  Summit, 
world  leaders  acknowledged  that  we  are  living  in  an 
interdependent  and  global  world  and  that  many  of 
today’s  threats  recognize  no  national  boundaries  and 
are  interlinked.  There  was  strong  determination  to 
tackle  the  threats  at  a  global  level  by  adapting  the 
intergovernmental organs of the United Nations to the 
needs of the twenty-first century. Unfortunately, calls 
for  an  early  reform  of  the  Security  Council  aimed  at 
making it more representative, efficient and transparent, 
thus enhancing its effectiveness and the legitimacy of 
its decisions, have not been answered.
Furthermore,  far  too  often,  the  Security  Council, 
which  bears  the  primary  responsibility  to  ensure 
international  peace  and  security,  has  been  unable  to 
prevent conflicts or build peace or stop atrocities. Latvia 
believes that the United Nations capacity to address the 
current challenges also depends on the political will to 
move  forward  with  Security  Council  reform.  That  is 
long  overdue,  and  we  should  all  aim  at  strengthening 
the legitimacy of that important body.
That legitimacy very much depends on the actions 
of  the  Security  Council.  Blocking  the  work  of  the 
Council, especially in matters related to mass atrocities, 
is unacceptable. We believe that discussions on limiting 
the use of the veto in certain circumstances should be 
continued.  If  the  Council  is  to  react  accordingly,  its 
permanent  members  should  refrain  from  using  the 
veto  in  situations  of  atrocity  crimes.  Latvia  supports 
that important initiative, as well as the code of conduct 
regarding  Security  Council  action  against  genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity  and  war  crimes.  We  also 
support improvement of the Council’s working methods 
with  a  view  to  increasing  transparency,  inclusiveness 
and  representativeness  in  its  work,  thus  enhancing 
its  legitimacy  and  facilitating  the  implementation  of 
its decisions.
In  our  view,  Council  reform  should  ensure 
equitable  geographic  distribution  of  both  permanent 
and non-permanent seats, thereby reflecting the current 
political  realities.  That  would  include  allocating  at 
least  one  additional  non-permanent  seat  to  the  Group 
of Eastern European States. Due consideration should 
also  be  given  to  the  adequate  representation  of  small 
and medium-sized Member States.
Latvia  believes  that  in  order  to  advance  Security 
Council reform, we should go beyond merely reiterating 
positions. It is important to find a way to ensure text-
based negotiations. As in other negotiation processes at 
the United Nations, the Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform has a mandate 
to actively steer the discussions with a view to producing 
concrete  results.  That  would  also  include  a  proposal 
for a negotiation text. The final decision on a possible 
text would be taken by Member States as a result of the 
intergovernmental negotiations.
the 
two  sessions  of 
We  note  that  some  progress  was  achieved  during 
the  past 
intergovernmental 
negotiations,  which  is  encouraging.  First,  there  was 
the  2015  framework  document  on  Security  Council 
reform, which reflects the positions of more than half 
of the United Nations membership. During the previous 
session, another small step forward was made in the form 
of elements of convergence covering some aspects of the 
reform. We appreciate the efforts in that regard of the 
former Chairs of the negotiations, Ambassador Rattray 
of Jamaica and Ambassador Lucas of Luxembourg, as 
well as the strong support of the former and the current 
Presidents of the General Assembly.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  decision  of  the 
President 
to  appoint  Mr.  Ion  Jinga,  Permanent 
Representative of Romania, and Mr. Mohamed Khiari, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Tunisia,  as  co-Chairs  of 
the intergovernmental negotiations. Latvia extends its 
support to both co-Chairs, and is committed to working 
with  them  and  with  other  Member  States  in  order  to 
facilitate work on the reform.
We should ensure that the realities and demands of 
the  twenty-first  century  are  reflected  in  the  progress 
achieved  on  Security  Council  reform.  It  is  time  to 
move  forward  and  to  achieve  a  concrete  outcome  in 
that process.
Mr.  Ndong  Mba  (Equatorial  Guinea)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): This is the first time that I have taken the floor 
from  this  rostrum  since  the  election  of  the  President 
16-36737
5/25
A/71/PV.43 
07/11/2016
of the General Assembly for the seventy-first session. 
Allow  me  to  express  my  sincere  congratulations  and 
appreciation  to  the  President  on  the  effective  manner 
in which he has been conducting the debates. We also 
want to thank him for convening this plenary meeting 
to  discuss  the  question  of  equitable  representation  on 
and increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and other matters related to the Security Council.
Let  me  also  congratulate  Ambassador 
Ion 
Jinga,  Permanent  Representative  of  Romania,  and 
Ambassador  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Tunisia,  on  their  appointment  as 
co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform.  My  delegation  expresses  its 
full  support  and  pledges  close  cooperation  with  them 
throughout their exercise.
in 
the  Security  Council  and 
This is a very timely debate. We hope that Security 
Council  reform  will  acquire  new  momentum  in  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  hope  that  we  can 
conclude  that  process,  which  has  now  been  going  for 
decades,  ever  since  we  began  the  debate  on  equitable 
representation 
the 
increase in its membership during thirtieth session of 
the  General  Assembly  in  1979.  That  was  done  at  the 
request  of  Algeria,  Argentina,  Bangladesh,  Bhutan, 
Guyana,  India,  Maldives,  Nepal,  Nigeria  and  Sri 
Lanka. It was not until 1992 that the General Assembly 
adopted resolution 47/62, in accordance with which the 
Secretary-General  published  a  report  containing  the 
observations by Member States (A/48/264).
We are now approaching the end of 2016, so it is 
appropriate  for  the  international  Organization,  the 
United  Nations,  through  its  General  Assembly,  to 
provide encouragement so that in 2017, when the United 
Nations turns 72 years old, this long process will lead 
to  the  effective  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  It 
might  seem  inconceivable  that,  ever  since  the  United 
Nations began to promote respect for human rights and 
sociopolitical  and  economic  reform,  and  ever  since  it 
began  promoting  democracy,  good  governance  and 
transparency  reforms  —  many  developing  countries 
have been engaged in such reforms, including my own 
country, Equatorial Guinea — the United Nations itself 
has, for more than 20 years, been incapable of actually 
completing such reforms.
I am participating in this debate as the Permanent 
Representative of Equatorial Guinea, which is a State 
member of the African Union Committee of Ten Heads 
of  State  (C-10).  For  that  reason,  I  completely  support 
the statement made by the Permanent Representative of 
Sierra Leone, Mr. Foday Sumah, as coordinator of the 
C-10. He reaffirmed the claims of the African continent 
to be fully and widely represented in all decision-making 
bodies of the United Nations — particularly the Security 
Council, which is the principal decision-making body 
related to international peace and security. That full and 
wide representation that the African continent requires 
two  permanent  seats  with  all  the  inherent  privileges 
and prerogatives, and five non-permanent seats in the 
Security Council.
A  society  or  organization  that  is  not  dynamic  is 
doomed  to  disappear.  Because  the  United  Nations 
is  a  vital  organization  for  the  sustainability  of  the 
community  of  nations  and  of  global  causes,  my 
delegation repeats that the time has come for the reform 
and modernization of the Organization in general and 
the  Security  Council  in  particular  so  as  to  meet  the 
requirements of the world today and in the future.
The General Assembly debate on Security Council 
reform  has  already  taken  too  long.  My  delegation,  as 
a  member  of  the  Committee  of  Ten  and  the  Group  of 
African States, has been consistently and continuously 
called  for  reforms  that  represent  the  political,  social 
and  economic  changes  of  the  world  today.  Members 
will agree with me that it is totally inconceivable and 
unjustifiable that a continent such as Africa — which 
has more than 1 billion people and 54 States Members 
of  the  United  Nations  and  whose  problems  make  up 
more  than  70  per  cent  of  the  issues  on  the  agenda  of 
the  Security  Council  —  does  not  yet  have  a  single 
permanent seat in that organ.
In that regard, it should be noted that the demand for 
seats for Africa in the Security Council is a requirement, 
an inalienable right in the modern world, especially in 
a world organization like the United Nations, which is 
supposed  to  guarantee  the  principles  of  justice,  good 
governance and rights. 
My  country  reaffirms  its  position,  which  is  the 
Common African Position, which rejects any provisional 
or transitional proposals in the negotiations, given that  
the main provisions of those proposals run counter to 
the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration.
The  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  expresses  its 
full confidence in His Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson, 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  and  the  new 
co-Chairs,  Ambassador  Ion  Jinga  and  Ambassador 
6/25 
16-36737
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.43
Mohamed Khaled Khiari, as they guide the process of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  for  Security  Council 
reform, as well as in all the partners, friends and allies 
of Africa from all regions and continents, that they will 
continue  to  grant  us  their  support,  which  is  steadily 
increasing, so that our just African claim can translate 
into a tangible reality.
My country, its President — His Excellency Obiang 
Nguema Mbasogo — and its Government consider in a 
general way that all States, regions and interest groups 
are called on to focus their positions in the framework 
of the negotiating process for Security Council reform 
so as to reach an equitable representation, an increase 
in  the  number  of  its  members  in  both  categories  in 
order  to  achieve  an  objective  and  impartial  reform  of 
the Security Council and of the United Nations system. 
That is our wish, our desire for the restructuring of the 
Security Council in particular and the United Nations 
system in general, in a manner that takes into account 
the interests of all the States and geographical regions 
that define the international community in its broadest 
sense.  That  means  that  all  States  must  continue 
advancing  and  overcoming  the  unnecessary  obstacles 
that  do  not  in  any  way  enable  genuine  reform  and  a 
more representative Security Council.
illegal  arms 
The  world  currently  faces  numerous  challenges 
and  threats,  including  armed  conflicts,  terrorism, 
climate  change,  piracy, 
trafficking, 
human  trafficking,  organized  crime,  diseases  and  so 
on. Tackling all of those challenges requires a greater 
involvement  of  States  through  broader  representation 
of  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  in  its 
decision-making bodies. That is possible only if we have 
reform of the Security Council, as demanded today by 
an increasingly large number of Member States.
Mr. Balé (Congo) (spoke in French): At the outset, 
the Congo wishes to associate itself with the statement 
delivered by the representative of Sierra Leone on behalf 
of the Group of African States (see A/71/PV.42). I would 
like to add a few comments in my national capacity.
I  wish  to  join  earlier  speakers  in  expressing  our 
congratulations to the President on his leadership of the 
General Assembly at this seventy-first session. At the 
same time, I thank him for organizing this meeting on 
the question of equitable representation on and increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
matters related to the Security Council, which is known 
as Security Council reform.
I also wish to address my sincere congratulations 
to  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Tunisia  and 
Romania, who have been designated co-Chairs of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.  It  is  their  sensitive  mission  to  infuse  new 
energy into that process and to engage in a new start. I 
can assure them of my delegation’s support. I seize this 
occasion to pay well-merited tribute to all their eminent 
predecessors, who did their best and invested so much 
energy  in  the  laborious  and  complex  negotiation 
process over the seven years since its launch in 2009. It 
is thanks to their tenacity and their contributions that 
we can hope for a possible epilogue.
The  adoption  on  27  July  of  decision  70/559,  on 
the  follow-up  to  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
at  the  current  session  contributes  to  the  efforts  of 
our  colleagues,  as  has  been  mentioned,  and  to  the 
commitment of Member States to continuing to work for 
Security Council reform in the spirit of transparency, 
openness and compromise, despite obvious differences 
and harmful divisions. My delegation bases its hopes on 
the framework document of 31 July 2015 and its annex, 
which define the path forward. In that regard, I call for 
the  speedy  establishment  of  an  open-ended  working 
group to consider the strategies to be implemented in 
order  to  quickly  engage  in  the  substantive  debate  on 
that crucial issue.
My 
delegation 
appreciates 
the  President’s 
commitment  to  conducting  negotiations  on  the  basis 
of  decision  62/557,  which  the  General  Assembly 
adopted  on  15  September  2008.  That  decision  forms 
the  basis  for  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  and 
the  recommendations  on  the  interdependence  of  the 
five thematic groups in Security Council reform. It is 
therefore  appropriate  to  remember  that  we  should  not 
invest in a quest for a makeshift, fragmented approach, 
which  would  be  contrary  to  the  spirit  and  letter  of 
the decision.
The  reform  that  we  are  calling  for  is  a  historic 
prerequisite for the advent of a more just world, based 
on universalism, equity and balance among the regions 
of the world. To that end, we need to explore all paths 
that guide us towards a genuine, more realistic reform 
that espouses the values, goals and ideals of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  more  than  timely  to  open 
substantive  negotiations  on  the  basis  of  a  text  that 
enables us to identify the points in common and engage 
in a real process of compromise.
16-36737
7/25
A/71/PV.43 
07/11/2016
I remind members that it has been barely a month 
since the General Assembly witnessed the confirmation 
of a unanimous choice from among the 13 candidates 
for the post of Secretary-General, following a process 
of  unprecedented  transparency.  That  feat  in  the  life 
of  our  Organization,  which  we  have  all  applauded, 
has  refuted  the  most  pessimistic  predictions.  Here, 
political will provided genuine motivation for a historic 
compromise,  which  appears  to  herald  a  new  era  and 
marks the beginning of a historic turning point in the 
existence of the United Nations.
The Congo has not lost hope for a reformed Security 
Council  in  the  short  or  medium  term.  The  dynamic 
provided  by  the  process  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations in recent years gives reason to believe that 
obstacles can be gradually removed. But, as was evident 
in  the  nomination  process  for  the  Secretary-General,  
the  approach  requires,  above  and  beyond  a  simple 
declaration  of  faith,  a  real  political  will  for  genuine 
reform so that that important organ is more democratic 
and more representative, and with greater transparency, 
effectiveness and accountability to Member States. 
Non-reform  of  the  Security  Council  in  the  short 
and  medium  terms  cannot  be  an  option.  We  cannot 
entertain  such  a  scenario.  Such  a  perspective  would 
no  longer  satisfy  the  demands  of  justice  or  present 
circumstances,  much  less  Sustainable  Development 
Goal 16, on promoting peaceful and inclusive societies. 
The  implementation  of  that  Goal  depends,  inter  alia, 
on  broadening  and  strengthening  the  participation 
of  developing  countries  in  the  institutions  of  global 
governance  and  on  developing  effective,  accountable 
and transparent institutions at all levels — to mention 
only two requirements set forth in the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development. 
Reform  of  the  United  Nations  remains  a  demand 
for  adaptation,  modernization,  democratization  and 
transparency, which would enable the Organization to 
establish its historical leadership in global governance. 
Reform  of  the  Security  Council  —  the  cornerstone 
of  the  United  Nations  —  cannot  be  exempt  from 
that imperative.
In  that  context,  it  seems  only  fair  and  just  to 
satisfy the legitimate demand to redress the historical 
injustice done to Africa. It is indeed a known fact that 
issues concerning Africa account for more than 60 per 
cent  of  the  items  on  the  Security  Council’s  agenda. 
But  that  type  of  calculation  cannot  overshadow  the 
legitimate  aspiration  of  54  States,  which  account  for 
approximately a quarter of the United Nations Member 
States, to shoulder their due share of responsibility in 
the area of international peace and security.
Mr. Kim In-ryong (Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea):  Today,  the  role  of  the  Security  Council  is 
crucial in carrying out the mission of the United Nations, 
which is to ensure international peace and security. In 
many  parts  of  the  world,  events  posing  grave  threats 
to peace and security and the existence of humankind 
continue to unfold, indicating thereby that the Security 
Council is not addressing them adequately.
The Korean peninsula is faced with a situation in 
which acute and worsened tensions are driving it to the 
brink of war. No one knows whether a nuclear war might 
break out owing to the increased level of unprecedented 
political, military and economic isolation and pressure 
exerted by the so-called super-Power, the United States 
of America, which seeks to stifle a sovereign State that 
is striving to maintain its dignity.
Every year, the United States of America conducts 
a number of large-scale joint military exercises geared 
towards a preemptive nuclear strike, thereby escalating 
the  military  threat  against  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea.  This  year,  unsatisfied  with  the 
ongoing massive deployment in South Korea of various 
kinds  of  nuclear  strategic  assets,  including  nuclear 
bombers and submarines, the United States, using the 
pretext of military exercises, went one step further by 
deploying  the  Terminal  High  Altitude  Area  Defense 
system in South Korea.
In  the  exercise  of  its  right  as  a  United  Nations 
Member State and as provided for in the Charter of the 
United  Nations,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  has  requested  the  Security  Council  on  several 
occasions  to  hold  an  emergency  meeting  on  the 
aggressive  and  provocative  large-scale  joint  military 
exercises  being  conducted  by  the  United  States  and 
South  Korea,  undermining  international  peace  and 
security. However, the Security Council has remained 
steadfastly  silent  towards  each  request,  even  when  it 
was  faced  with  the  stark  reality  of  the  possibility  of 
nuclear war breaking out on the Korean peninsula and 
engulfing both it and the world as a whole.
That is not the only issue to be raised. According 
to  the  Charter,  the  Security  Council  is  supposed  to 
address all situations in which international peace and 
security  are  breached  or  where  such  a  threat  exists. 
8/25 
16-36737
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.43
However,  the  Council  has  determined  that  only  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  nuclear  test 
and  its  peaceful  satellite  launch  count  as  threats  to 
international  peace  and  security.  It  therefore  adopted 
resolution 2270 (2016), which calls for the prohibition 
of the Democratic People’s Republic’s aforementioned 
actions  and  a  follow-up  that  would  impose  abundant 
sanctions in response to to any self-defensive counter-
measures that our country might take, which would be 
justified, supposedly, under the pretext of some alleged 
violation of resolution 2270 (2016).
Nowhere  in  the  Charter  or  international  law  can 
we find a single provision stipulating that nuclear tests 
or satellite launches constitute a threat to international 
peace and security or any single provision stipulating 
that  only  specific  countries  have  the  right  to  conduct 
nuclear  tests  and  satellite  launches.  The  so-called 
sanctions resolutions adopted by the Security Council 
against  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
clearly  indicate,  therefore,  that  the  Council  is  being 
manipulated  in  the  interest  of  the  political  goals  of  a 
single permanent member. We can only consider that to 
be an abuse of power and a perversion of the Charter.
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
officially  requested  the  Secretariat  to  clarify  the 
legitimacy of resolution 2270 (2016), but the Secretariat 
has yet to reply. The Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea  is  the  only  country  in  the  world  that  has  lived 
under  the  imminent  threat  of  United  States  nuclear 
weapons for more than 50 years. The Security Council 
has therefore no legal or moral ground to stand on when 
it takes issue with our nuclear programme, which is a 
necessary deterrent to nuclear war and safeguards our 
country’s  people  and  our  right  to  exist.  The  United 
States, as a permanent members of the Security Council, 
continues  to  misuse  the  Council  as  an  instrument  in 
its  efforts  to  strictly  pursue  its  political  and  military 
purposes  and  strategic  interests,  which  is  a  serious 
issue facing the United Nations today.
The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea calls for the Security Council’s comprehensive 
reform so as to reflect today’s demands. It  outlines its 
principled position as follows. 
First,  Council  reform  should  be  directed  towards 
ensuring 
impartiality,  objectivity  and  democracy. 
Although  more  than  70  years  have  passed  since  the 
establishment  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Security 
Council,  which  consists  of  only  15  States,  is  unable 
to  represent  the  interests  of  all  193  Member  States. 
Security Council reform should be undertaken with a 
view  to  rejecting  the  high-handedness,  arbitrariness 
and  double  standards  of  one  specific  country,  which 
must  be  considered  to  be  a  blatant  violation  of  the 
purposes and principles of the Charter, which proclaims 
the sovereignty and equality of all countries.
Secondly, the composition of the Council should be 
based on the principle of ensuring the full representation 
of  member  States  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and 
other  developing  countries.  Since  such  States  form 
the majority of the membership of the United Nations, 
it  cannot  be  a  matter  of  debate  that  they  should  be 
represented  accordingly  in  the  Security  Council.  As 
we have seen during the intergovernmental negotiation 
process on Security Council reform, the prospects for 
enlarging the Council’s permanent membership are not 
good, owing to the seriously divided views of Member 
States.  Under  those  circumstances,  a  preferable  and 
viable solution for redressing the Council’s unbalanced 
structure would be to begin by enlarging the category 
of non-permanent members.
Thirdly, the delegation of the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  believes  that  Japan’s  efforts  to 
become a permanent member of the Security Council 
are an affront to the conscience of humankind and the 
United Nations. A country notorious for its war crimes, 
Japan  invaded  numerous  Asian  countries,  committed 
the  wholesale  slaughter  of  peoples,  looted  and  set 
fires  indiscriminately,  and,  in  particular,  committed 
the crime of sex slavery, which is an egregious crime 
against humanity. Before participating in negotiations 
on Security Council reform, Japan should reflect upon 
its crimes and compensate the victims in good faith in 
order to regain the trust of the international community.
The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea has clarified its principal position on Security 
Council  reform  and  has  expressed  the  hope  that  the 
sincere  and  protracted  efforts  of  the  international 
community to achieve such reform will bear fruit and 
produce successful results.
Mr. Ružička (Slovakia): At the outset, I wish to thank 
the President for convening this meeting. Let me begin 
by  congratulating  Ambassador  Ion  Jinga,  Permanent 
Representative of Romania, and Ambassador Mohamed 
Khiari, Permanent Representative of Tunisia, on their 
appointment  as  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform. But we should 
16-36737
9/25
A/71/PV.43 
07/11/2016
go  farther  than  congratulating  them;  by  electing, 
selecting and approving them, we give them full power 
and  our  trust  and  confidence  in  their  ability  to  guide 
us through the very complex process of the talks and 
negotiations on Security Council reforms. I would like 
to assure them of my country’s support and cooperation 
with  regard  to  the  steps  and  decisions  that  they  will 
present to all of us.
Security Council reform is an essential part of the 
comprehensive reform of the United Nations. Everybody 
agrees  on  the  principle  that  the  Organization  and  all 
its  bodies  should  represent  the  world’s  contemporary 
realities.  Let  me  just  quote  some  trivial  numbers  that 
can  be  found  in  Wikipedia  or  on  Google-retrieved 
websites.  In  1945,  there  were  51  Member  States;  in 
1965, when the last significant reform of the Security 
Council took place, there were 117 Member States; and 
in 1992 we started negotiating again. I wish to remind 
everyone that in 1965, when my generation of diplomats 
was born, there was very little progress towards reform. 
In  1992,  a  new  generation  of  diplomats  —  many  of 
them are sitting here — arrived on the global scene. In 
2000, the younger generation — we are talking about 
the millennials — was really unsure that we were ready 
and able to establish a system of international relations 
that would reflect the realities of the current world.
If there is the will, there is a way. We do not have 
to  look  very  far  for  an  example.  Only  recently,  we 
were able to make significant progress in the process 
of selecting the head of this Organization. Three years 
ago, nobody was optimistic or expecting that outcome. 
But it took time, it took negotiating skills, and it took 
the  will  and  readiness  of  all  Member  States  —  large 
and small, northern and southern countries — to agree 
on the principle. And recently we succeeded in electing 
a  new  Secretary-General  who  has  the  full  trust  of 
the  Member  States.  The  election  was  based  on  a  real 
competition with greater transparency and with the full 
participation of all Member States. We have to continue 
in our endeavours.
We welcome the intensified reform efforts during 
the  two  previous  General  Assembly  sessions.  In 
that  regard,  I  would  like  to  thank  both  Chairs  of  the 
intergovenmental  negotiations,  Ambassador  Sylvie 
Lucas,  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg, 
and  Ambassador  Courtenay  Rattray,  Permanent 
Representative of Jamaica. They gave the process their 
best efforts. Of course, there were different approaches 
and points of view in what they did, but they did try. If 
we do not try, we should not be here.
The  position  of  my  country 
is  quite  well 
documented.  Let  me  just  briefly  recapitulate  its  main 
elements.  We  would  like  the  Security  Council  to  be 
much  more  representative  and  transparent,  but  also 
effective  and  efficient.  That  in  itself  is  a  huge  task 
and  challenge.  There  are  various  models  for  how  to 
tackle  it,  starting  with  those  presented  by  the  former 
Secretaries-General, by the former negotiators, and by 
many countries and groups that have already taken the 
floor. We think that the nucleus of a future compromise 
is contained in those ideas. What we have to do is to try 
to put all those views together and look at them from 
the  viewpoint  of  the  interests  of  humankind  and  the 
United Nations.
My country supports the expansion of both categories 
of membership, permanent and non-permanent, and we 
are also very keen to discuss the possibility of a third 
type of membership, provided that it meets two goals, 
namely, representation and efficiency. 
Membership  in  the  Security  Council,  especially 
permanent membership, is not only a privilege, but also, 
and more importantly, a responsibility. The majority of 
our Member States have already been Security Council 
members. We took our membership as a responsibility. 
It  was  not  our  goal  to  get  into  the  Security  Council; 
the goal was to contribute to solving the most serious 
issues of the day.
We support the enlargement of the Council and call 
for better representation therein of the Group of African 
States and for an additional non-permanent seat for the 
Group of Eastern European States. 
Taking all the pluses and minuses into account, we 
should be more attentive to the voices of the small and 
medium-sized  Member  States,  because  in  the  overall 
competition  they  are  sometimes  at  a  disadvantage  in 
competing for a seat. So we have to find the appropriate 
mechanisms. The majority of new Member States since 
1990  are  small  Member  States.  One  might  ask,  what 
is  their  contribution?  My  answer  is  simple.  We  have 
representatives  of  every  single  Member  State  in  the 
highest positions in the United Nations system, and we 
very much value and appreciate their contributions to 
the work of the system.
The right of veto granted to the permanent members 
of the Council is a prerogative enshrined in the Charter 
10/25 
16-36737
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.43
of  the  United  Nations.  Nevertheless,  Slovakia  has 
endorsed the major initiatives to promote a culture of 
zero  tolerance  at  the  United  Nations  in  mass  atrocity 
situations, and that effort should continue. Furthermore, 
we welcome the positive movement towards improving 
the  Council’s  relationships  with  other  United  Nations 
bodies, such as the General Assembly, the Secretariat, 
the 
regional 
organizations. Those efforts should also be pursued.
Peacebuilding  Commission 
and 
The last point of our position is that over the past two 
to three years, several non-permanent Council members 
have demonstrated that there is room for improvement 
in  the  working  methods  of  the  Council,  inter  alia,  by 
making  them  more  transparent  and  more  informative 
and by finding ways of keeping non-members informed 
of the Council’s proceedings.
My delegation looks forward to engaging in open, 
transparent, inclusive and results-oriented negotiations 
with a view to moving the process forward during the 
Assembly’s current session. We are ready to move that 
process  forward.  As  the  Chinese  philosopher  says, 
“Every  long  journey  starts  with  small  steps”,  and  we 
should have the courage to take them.
Mr. Vitrenko (Ukraine): I thank the President for 
convening today’s debate.
Ukraine believes that efforts to make the Security 
Council more representative and balanced and its work 
more effective and transparent, especially with regard 
to  decision-making,  are  vital  in  getting  the  United 
Nations to adapt to the global realities of the twenty-
first  century.  Ukraine  considers  both  directions  of 
reform — the enlargement of the Security Council and 
the improvement of its working methods — to be a high 
priority. Achieving progress in those spheres will meet 
the interests of Ukraine.
As  a  current  elected  member  of  the  Council, 
Ukraine participates actively in the deliberations of its 
members  aimed  at  making  that  organ  more  efficient 
and  transparent.  For  instance,  one  could  see  very 
positive  developments  during  the  selection  process 
for  the  Secretary-General  this  year.  Yet  that  process 
needs  further  improvement  in  order  to  become  truly 
transparent  and  inclusive.  Furthermore, in  July,  at 
the  initiative  of  the  elected  members  of  the  Council, 
an  important  note  by  the  President  of  the  Council 
(S/2016/619)  was  adopted  with  a  view  to  facilitating 
the accession of newly elected members to the Council 
and  to  selecting  members  in  a  more  transparent  and 
inclusive  manner  to  chair  the  Council’s  subsidiary 
bodies. Even though the implementation of that note has 
been uneven thus far, we are sure that its provisions will 
have a far-reaching, positive impact on the work of the 
Council. During our Council term, we will cooperate 
with all of its members so as to further streamline its 
work,  including  by  updating  the  well-known  note  by 
the President in document S/2010/507.
streamlining 
initiatives  aimed  at 
While  Ukraine  is  open  to  discussing  all  new 
approaches to Security Council reform, we particularly 
welcome 
the 
negotiation  process  and  making  it  more  pragmatic 
and results-oriented. In that regard, we are grateful to 
Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas  for  preparing  the  outcome 
document of our deliberations in the intergovernmental 
negotiations  during  the  previous  General  Assembly 
session,  showing  a  number  of  points  of  convergence 
in  the  positions  of  Member  States.  We  hope  that  the 
element of transparency that she brought to the debate 
will be preserved.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  appointment  of  the 
Ambassadors  of  Romania  and  Tunisia  as  the  new 
co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations. They 
can  certainly  count  on  my  delegation’s  full  support. 
We are ready to participate actively in the negotiations 
during the current General Assembly session. Ukraine 
supports  all  steps,  whether  procedural  or  substantive, 
that  can  lead  to  progress  in  that  area,  which  is  long 
overdue.  We  are  convinced  that  the  proposals  and 
positions 
framework  document 
circulated  on  31  July  2015  continue  to  constitute  a 
solid  basis  for  further  negotiations.  As  for  the  Group 
of Eastern European States, I would like to underline 
that  any  increase  in  the  non-permanent  membership 
of  the  Security  Council  should  ensure  enhanced 
representation of the Eastern European States.
reflected 
in 
the 
My  country’s  position  also  remains  firm  on 
another quite complex but crucial element of Security 
Council reform, namely, the question of the veto. The 
Russian Federation’s gross violations of the Charter of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  fundamental  principles  of 
international law, which threaten European if not global 
security, as well as the inability of the Security Council 
to  react  promptly  to  those  actions,  show  the  need  to 
phase  out  the  use  of  the  veto.  In  the  meantime,  all 
permanent members of the Council should voluntarily 
and  collectively  pledge  not  to  use  that  instrument  in 
cases  of  mass  atrocities,  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity,  war  crimes  and  acts  of  aggression.  In  that 
16-36737
11/25
A/71/PV.43 
07/11/2016
connection, Ukraine joined the relevant Accountability, 
Coherence and Transparency Group initiative, as well 
as the one presented by France and Mexico, and calls 
upon all United Nations Member States to follow suit. 
In that regard, I fully concur with what the Permanent 
Representative of Slovakia just mentioned.
My country stresses that for all of the aforementioned 
reasons, we believe that the need for Security Council 
reform is greater than ever.
(Argentina) 
(spoke 
Mr.  García  Moritán 
in 
Spanish):  I  am  grateful  for  the  convening  of  this 
meeting  and  take  this  opportunity  to  recognize  the 
exceptional  work  of  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas,  Chair 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  at  the  previous 
session. 
to  congratulate  Romanian 
Ambassador Jinga and Tunisian Ambassador Khiari on 
their designation as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental 
negotiations at the current session. I can assure them of 
our full support in working constructively on the issue 
at hand.
I  also  wish 
While  Argentina  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered by the representative of Italy on behalf of the 
Uniting for Consensus group (see A/71/PV.42), I wish 
to underscore a few elements.
Once  again,  we  face  our  work,  conscious  of  the 
need  to  maintain  a  spirit  of  flexibility,  harmony,  and 
a strong commitment to multilateralism, as that is the 
only way to ensure successful results. Argentina trusts 
that all delegations will act accordingly, because only a 
with a multilateral approach based on specific actions 
and leadership abilities that can see the interest of all 
nations  can  we  achieve  a  more  democratic,  efficient 
and  genuinely  inclusive  Security  Council  that  can 
adequately fulfil the responsibilities conferred on it by 
the Charter of the United Nations.
It is clear that, as a democratic institution, the United 
Nations continuously faces the need to strengthen the 
legitimacy  and  representativeness  of  its  organs.  That 
task  is  the  responsibility  of  Member  States  and,  as 
such, cannot and should not be delegated. That is why 
that  only  in  the  framework  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  —  carried  out  in  good  faith  by  Member 
States 
in  a  spirit  of  mutual  respect,  openness, 
inclusiveness  and  transparency,  as  established  by  the 
Assembly in resolutions 48/26 and 53/30 and decision 
62/557 —  will it be feasible to find a solution that can 
meet with the broadest possible political acceptance. 
Based on the experience gained over the course of 
the protracted negotiation process, Argentina continues 
to  make  every  effort  to  find  innovative,  consistent 
solutions  that  ensure  a  more  democratic  composition 
in  the  Council,  improved  rotation  of  non-permanent 
members  and  reformulated  working  methods,  so 
that  the  Council  can  truly  become  more  transparent, 
interactive  and  inclusive.  The  Charter  stipulates  that 
in order to ensure the swift and effective action of the 
United Nations, its Members confer upon the Security 
Council  the  primary  responsibility  for  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security,  and  recognize  that 
the Council acts on their behalf when it discharges the 
functions entailed in carrying out that responsibility.
The victors of the Second World War assumed that 
responsibility on a permanent basis. Nevertheless, any 
State that recognizes peace as vital to its development 
also  wishes  to  actively  take  on  that  responsibility. 
That is why Argentina favours an increase only in the 
non-permanent  membership,  because  perpetuity  is 
intrinsically at odds with the notion of representativeness 
in a democratic context, where the will of those who are 
represented periodically legitimizes that representation. 
It is well known that elections are a fundamental element 
in  every  self-respecting  legitimate  and  representative 
democratic system.
The 
improvement  of 
the  Council’s  working 
methods  continues  to  be  an  issue  of  the  greatest 
importance for Argentina, and we have noted that view 
at  every  opportunity.  For  example,  when  we  presided 
over the Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural  Questions,  we  proposed  that  the  Council 
work  openly  and  transparently,  keeping  the  entire 
Organization abreast of its activities.
In  conclusion,  Argentina  reiterates  and  reaffirms 
its  willingness  to  keep  an  open  mind  and  consider 
any proposal in line with the agreed principles of the 
Assembly  that  helps  harmonize  positions  in  order  to 
bring  about  the  necessary  democratic  reform  of  the 
Security Council.
Mr. Ruiz Blanco (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): I 
would like to begin by congratulating two very qualified 
colleagues,  Ambassador  Ion  Jinga  of  Romania  and 
Ambassador  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari  of  Tunisia,  for 
their designation as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform, and for their 
decision to accept a task that is vital and surely requires 
courage. I would also like to thank Ambassador Sylvie 
12/25 
16-36737
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.43
Lucas for her constructive guidance of the debates and 
for the progress achieved during the previous session.
It is evident that we can advance in the debate on 
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  particularly  after 
what  was  achieved  in  the  process  of  revitalizing  the 
General  Assembly:  the  selection  and  appointment 
of  the  Secretary-General  through  a  process  that  was 
more  inclusive  and  transparent  than  seemed  possible 
two  years  ago.  This  is  the  opportune  moment,  as 
Ambassador  Sebastiano  Cardi  stated  on  behalf  of  the 
Uniting  for  Consensus  group  (see  A/71/PV.42),  for 
showing flexibility and a spirit of compromise to give 
the needed impulse to reform. 
There are three important elements that we should 
keep in mind. 
First,  we  all  agree  that  it  is  necessary  to  expand 
the  number  of  non-permanent  seats  in  the  Council. 
Accordingly, I would like to emphasize that in recent 
negotiation processes that were equally complex — such 
as the reform of Economic and Social Council and the 
process  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly  —  it  has 
been  demonstrated  that  the  involvement  of  the  entire 
membership  and  a  special  emphasis  on  the  elements 
of 
accountability, 
transparency  and  effectiveness  helped  to  create  the 
recipe  for  success  that  can  be  transferred  to  this 
scenario.
representativeness, 
inclusivity, 
Secondly,  we  believe  that  it  is  timely  to  reiterate 
the  necessary  commitment  of  all  of  us  who  take  part 
in the intergovernmental negotiations to honouring the 
rules that should guide the process, in accordance with 
decision 62/557.
Thirdly,  this  process  is  carried  out  by  the  States 
Members  of  our  Organization,  and  the  proposals 
that  are  discussed  must  come  from  them.  We  must 
avoid shortcuts if we want to make effective progress 
towards  concrete 
topics  discussed, 
analysed  and  decided  on  by  the  Security  Council  all 
put  the  responsibility  on  Member  States  not  to  delay 
the  necessary  actions  nor  the  implementation  of  the 
urgent changes needed to maintain international peace 
and security.
reform.  The 
To  make  concrete  progress  in  our  discussions,  I 
would like to add my voice to those, such as the Uniting 
for  Consensus  group,  who  believe  that  the  process  of 
negotiations  can  make  use  of  the  lessons  learned  in 
those  consultations  that  focused  on  aspects  on  which 
positions  were  more  similar,    such  as  the  expansion 
in  the  number  of  non-permanent  seats,  establishing  a 
new category of long-term members, or the possibility 
of re-election. The main point is to produce a Security 
Council that is representative and democratic. 
The  President  can  always  count  on  Colombia’s 
commitment in this purpose.
Mr.  Bonser  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French):  Canada 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative  of  Italy  on  behalf  of  the  Uniting 
for  Consensus  group  (see  A/71/PV.42).  We  wish, 
however,  to  make  a  few  points  on  this  matter  in  our 
national capacity.
Canada  is  firmly  in  favour  of  a  reform  of  the 
Security Council and agrees that it is long overdue. We 
are  ready  to  work  with  all  Member  States  to  reach  a 
consensus that will transform the Council into a more 
democratic,  representative,  effective,  transparent  and 
accountable  body.  To  that  end  we  have  three  points 
to make.
(spoke in English)
First, Canada strongly believes that the effectiveness 
of  the  Council  should  be  the  overriding  objective  in 
the reform process. In that respect, we need to address 
honestly  the  issue  of  the  veto  and  how  it  is  applied. 
We have all witnessed recent uses of the veto in ways 
that  damage  the  reputation  of  the  Security  Council 
and  infringe  upon  its  effectiveness.  Clearly  there  is 
broad support for a Security Council that can play its 
role as envisaged in the Charter of the United Nations 
and that does not abuse the veto power. In that respect, 
Canada  supports  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and 
Transparency group’s code of conduct and the French-
Mexican  political  declaration  on  veto  restraint.  Both 
offer important opportunities for achieving a reformed 
and  strengthened  Security  Council  that  is  able  to 
address  global  crises,  especially  in  obvious  cases  of 
mass  violations  of  human  rights,  deliberate  attacks 
on  civilians,  war  crimes,  crimes  against  humanity 
and genocide.
the 
Secondly,  on 
issue  of  representativeness, 
Canada strongly believes in expanding the number of 
non-permanent seats on the Security Council. In doing 
so,  we  need  to  be  mindful  of  the  historical  under-
representation of Africa and small island and developing 
States. Increasing the number of non-permanent seats 
16-36737
13/25
A/71/PV.43 
07/11/2016
would  ensure  a  broader  representation  of  the  world’s 
regions and add to the Council’s legitimacy.
Thirdly, on the issues of democracy, transparency 
and  accountability,  Canada  firmly  believes  that  the 
holding of regular elections is the essential mechanism 
for ensuring Council accountability before the General 
Assembly. It is also based on the conviction that there are 
ways of making the Council more representative without 
conferring special rights on a few member States.
(spoke in French)
After many years of dialogue, there is a window of 
opportunity to achieve consensus on Security Council 
reform.  Canada  will  remain  a  constructive  partner  in 
advancing that goal.
Mr.  Elmajerbi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  salute  the  indefatigable  efforts 
of  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg  in 
chairing the intergovernmental negotiations on Security 
Council  reform  during  the  previous  session.  We  also 
welcome  the  decision  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  appoint  the  Permanent  Representatives 
of  Tunisia  and  Romania  to  co-chair  the  negotiations 
during the seventy-first session. We hope that they will 
be  able  to  achieve  a  consensus  that  will  preserve  the 
interests of all Member States. 
My country aligns itself with the statements made 
by the representatives of Sierra Leone and Kuwait on 
behalf of the Group of African States and the Group of 
Arab States, respectively (see A/71/PV.42).
This  debate  on  Security  Council  reform  has 
highlighted the links between the various elements of 
reform. We must therefore treat reform as an indivisible 
project. We need to find a comprehensive solution for 
the problem of Security Council reform that will take 
into  consideration  all  of  the  points  of  view  that  have 
emerged  in  the  discussions.  The  intergovernmental 
negotiations  provide  the  only  framework  in  which  an 
agreement  on  Security  Council  expansion  and  reform 
can  be  achieved  in  accordance  with  decision  62/557, 
which laid the foundation for negotiations on the matter.
Security  Council  reform  should  not  be  limited  to 
increasing the number of permanent and non-permanent 
seats. We must also reform the working methods of the 
Council and its relationship with the other bodies of the 
United Nations. It is necessary to reform the Council’s 
working methods in order to make all of its activities 
more  transparent.  It  is  also  important  to  limit  the 
number of closed meetings and restrict the use of the 
veto in cases of mass atrocities, war crimes and crimes 
against humanity.
We must increase the participation of non-member 
States in the work of the Security Council, particularly 
countries that are directly or indirectly affected by the 
issues  debated  by  the  Council.  The  provisional  rules 
of  procedure  must  be  replaced  with  permanent  rules 
in  order  to  increase  the  Council’s  effectiveness.  The 
relationship  between  the  Council  and  other  United 
Nations bodies must also be revised in order to delineate 
roles more clearly so that the Council does not infringe 
on the functions of other bodies, specifically the General 
Assembly.  There  must  also  be  closer  cooperation  and 
coordination  between  the  Council  and  other  bodies, 
and  the  mandates  of  those  bodies  must  be  respected, 
in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. 
In  that  regard,  we  are  in  favour  of  more  consultation 
meetings among the various bodies. It is also necessary 
that  the  Council  issue  more  reports  on  issues  that 
threaten  international  peace  and  security,  and  those 
reports should be exhaustive, transparent, neutral and 
supported by factual evidence and analysis, given that 
the General Assembly is the most representative body 
of the United Nations. 
My country believes it is necessary to rectify the 
historical  injustice  done  to  the  African  continent  by 
giving it a permanent seat in the Security Council. That 
is  a  right  that  must  be  recognized  as  non-negotiable, 
especially  considering  the  fact  that  two  thirds  of  the 
items  referred  to  the  Security  Council  concern  the 
African  continent.  Africa  must  have  two  permanent 
seats  on  the  Security  Council  with  all  the  privileges 
accorded  to  current  permanent  members,  including 
the right to veto. Furthermore, in accordance with the 
Common  African  Position  enshrined  in  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration,  any  increase  in 
the membership of the Security Council should include 
a  permanent  seat  for  Arab  countries,  in  accordance 
with the decision of the Arab League Summit in Sirte 
in 2010.
During  the  negotiations  that  have  taken  place  so 
far, some consensus has been achieved in terms of the 
need to redouble efforts to strengthen and revitalize the 
role of the Security Council so that it may address and 
overcome  the  challenges  posed  by  the  current  global 
situation.  We  must  build  a  broader  Security  Council 
based on the principles of transparency and neutrality. 
Libya  is  firmly  committed  to  positively  participating 
14/25 
16-36737
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.43
in  all  efforts  aimed  at  attaining  that  goal,  namely, 
Security  Council  reform,  so  that  we  may  build  an 
international Organization that is more democratic and 
more transparent.
Mr.  Ndong  Ella  (Gabon)  (spoke  in  French): 
Gabon aligns itself with the statement delivered by the 
representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of the Group of 
African States (see A/71/PV.42), My delegation would 
like to add a few remarks in its national capacity.
Gabon thanks the President for organizing today’s 
meeting on the question of equitable representation on 
and increase in the membership of the Security Council. 
Security  Council  reform  is  a  priority,  now  more  than 
ever. The outcome of the negotiations process on that 
reform will be decisive for the modernization of global 
governance and making it more democratic. 
Allow  me  to  congratulate  the  new  co-Chairs  of 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  Ambassador 
Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Tunisia,  and  Ambassador  Ion  Jinga,  Permanent 
Representative  of Romania. I also commend the work 
accomplished  by  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas,  former 
Permanent Representative of Luxembourg, who was an 
outstanding Chair throughout the previous session.
The  issue  of  Security  Council  reform  continues 
to give rise to great differences after several years of 
discussion. The negotiations, which appear to be never-
ending,  have  nonetheless  allowed  us  to  agree  on  two 
essential  points.  The  first  is  that  global  governance 
needs  to  be  improved  if  it  is  to  deal  effectively  with 
the new forms of very complex threats that the world 
faces today. The second is that, to be credible, global 
governance  must  take  into  account  the  current  global 
balance. 
The  reform  of  our  Organization  in  general,  and 
of  the  Security  Council  in  particular,  has  become 
more  than  a  necessity.  The  Council  must  meet  the 
requirements of the present day.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  progress  achieved, 
particularly  in  the  convergence  of  opinions  on  the 
matter of the relationship between the Security Council 
and  the  General  Assembly,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the 
Council’s  size  and  working  methods,  on  the  other. 
There  are  two  elements  of  convergence  in  the  five 
principal negotiation points. We remain convinced that 
that positive dynamic can also make it possible to reach 
consensus  on  the  other  points  under  consideration, 
namely, regional representation, membership categories 
and the veto.
As His Excellency Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, Head 
of  State  and  President  of  the  Republic  of  Gabon,  has 
said  here,  the  Security  Council  must  be  reformed  so 
that multilateralism takes precedence over the power of 
States. To nourish values such as democracy, the world 
we live in today cannot continue to be organized on the 
concept of a balance of power. An international system 
based on power, whether balanced or concerted, has the 
disadvantage of favouring a hierarchy, of marginalizing 
small  States  and  promoting  non-reciprocity.  On  the 
contrary,  multilateralism  —  of  which  the  United 
Nations is the guarantor — favours collective security 
over the balance of power, inclusion over selection.
The voice of Africa must be heard, and its position 
must  be  taken  into  account.  My  delegation  thank  all 
those  who  have  supported  that  African  goal  in  some 
way.  The  African  continent  represents  the  largest 
geographical  group  in  the  General  Assembly,  and 
African issues alone constitute more than 60 per cent 
of  the  situations  considered  by  the  Security  Council. 
Going forward, Africa must be have a place among the 
permanent members of the Security Council, with all of 
the privileges attached to that status, including the right 
of the veto, if that is maintained. 
The Ezulwini Consensus seeks to accomplish one 
thing:  to  repair  the  injustice  that  Africa  has  suffered 
for too many years. It is unfortunate that the Common 
African  Position  has  not  yet  evoked  a  dynamic 
solidarity, which, I believe, would have facilitated and 
accelerated the process of Security Council reform.
Gabon, like other African countries, will continue 
to  promote  Africa’s  will  to  participate  fully  in  global 
governance and to be recognized for its strengths and 
capacities, no longer for its weaknesses. I strongly  hope 
that the upcoming rounds of negotiations will enable us 
to build bridges between our various points of view so 
that we can successfully conclude the lengthy process 
for the benefit of our Organization.
Mr.  Sukhee  (Mongolia):  I  would  like  to  begin 
by  thanking  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
for  his  leadership  and  for  steering  the  discussion  of 
the  important  agenda  items  that  we  have  before  us, 
including the reform of the Security Council.
16-36737
15/25
A/71/PV.43 
07/11/2016
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered earlier by Ambassador Menissa Rambally of 
Saint Lucia on behalf of the L.69 group (see A/71/PV.42).
I would also like to congratulate Ambassador Ion 
Jinga  of  Romania  and  Ambassador  Mohamed  Khaled 
Khiari  of  Tunisia  on  their  appointment  as  the  new 
co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations. I wish 
to assure the co-Chairs of my delegation’s full support 
and cooperation in that process.
My  delegation  shares  the  view  that  today  a  new 
impetus  should  be  given  to  the  consideration  of  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and 
related  matters.  We  need  to  intensify  our  efforts  to 
achieve  concrete  progress  on  that  matter.  Mongolia 
reiterates  its  support  for  the  decision  to  continue  the 
process of intergovernmental negotiations on Security 
Council reform during the seventy-first session of the 
General Assembly.
I would like to reaffirm our principled position on 
Security  Council  reform.  Mongolia  has  consistently 
stood  for  a  just  and  equitable  expansion  in  both  the 
permanent  and 
the  non-permanent  categories  of 
membership,  as  well  as  for  an  improvement  in  the 
Council’s  working  methods.  Our  stance  in  favour  of 
enlarging  both  current  categories  is  guided  by  and 
based on the Charter of the United Nations, modern-day 
geopolitical  realities  and  the  principles  of  justice  and 
equality, with a view to ensuring a greater and enhanced 
representation of developing countries, particularly of 
non- and underrepresented regional groups. 
the 
importance  of 
Mongolia  recognizes 
text-
based  negotiations  in  order  for  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations to move forward. It is high time to finally 
make  progress  and  advance  the  reform  agenda  in  the 
upcoming negotiations.
I would like to reiterate my delegation’s firm belief 
that, with a genuine will on the part of Member States, 
we will be able to make tangible progress towards an 
early reform of the Security Council.
(Nicaragua) 
Ms.  Argüello  González 
(spoke 
in  Spanish):  We  thank  the  President  for  convening 
this  important  meeting  on  the  issue  of  equitable 
representation in the Security Council and the increase 
in  its  membership.  We  congratulate  Ambassadors 
Ion  Jinga  of  Romania  and  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari 
of  Tunisia  on  their  appointments  as  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  that  topic.  We  are 
certain that their stewardship will sustain the dynamism 
and momentum of the negotiating group.
Nicaragua  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made 
by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Saint  Lucia, 
Ambassador Menissa Rambally, on behalf of the L.69 
group (see A/71/PV.42).
We hope that this discussion will go deep into the 
core issue, the real nucleus of the debate, which is to 
achieve  extensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council. 
There  are  currently  193  Member  States,  and  the 
Organization of which we are Members, especially the 
Security Council, must evolve in a very different world. 
The Security Council urgently requires comprehensive 
reform in order to act in accordance with the realities 
of  the  twenty-first  century.  It  must  be  expanded 
in  both  categories  of  membership,  permanent  and 
non-permanent.
in 
involvement 
After  many  years  of 
those 
negotiations, we have a text that has been agreed upon 
by consensus, and we should proceed immediately. We 
are ready and prepared to negotiate; now is the time for 
concrete results. Furthermore, we welcome the creation 
of  the  group  of  friends  on  Security  Council  reform, 
of which Nicaragua is a member, and which has as its 
guiding principles the prompt adoption of reforms, text-
based negotiations and an expansion of both categories 
of membership.
Nicaragua  is  committed  to  all  initiatives  that  are 
able  to  lead  us  to  recreate,  reinvent  and  reconstruct 
the United Nations, fulfilling the growing demand for 
a  democratic  Organization  that  serves  the  supreme 
interests of sovereign security, justice and world peace. 
Nicaragua will continue to support all efforts to reform 
the Security Council. We reiterate the commitment of 
the Nicaraguan people to seek an open, thorough and 
reflective process for the necessary transformation and 
for the reinvention and democratization of the United 
Nations.
Ms.  Bogyay  (Hungary):  More  than  ever,  we  all 
need  a  strong  and  representative  Security  Council 
that can continue to play a decisive role in preserving 
peace  and  security  around  the  globe.  Designing  such 
a  Security  Council  is  not  only  in  the  best  interests 
of  the  international  community,  but  also  our  shared 
responsibility.
16/25 
16-36737
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.43
Last July, the General Assembly decided to continue 
the  negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  at  its 
seventy-first session. In that respect, Hungary warmly 
welcomes the decision of the President of the General 
Assembly to appoint two Ambassadors, who are good 
colleagues  of  ours  —  the  Ambassador  of  Romania 
and the Ambassador of Tunisia — as co-Chairs of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  I  wish  them  success, 
luck and perseverance in that very important endeavour. 
We would like to offer our support to their work. We 
welcome the active engagement of the President of the 
General Assembly in moving the process forward more 
quickly by convening this debate.
especially 
As  is  common  in  our  line  of  work,  this  is  an 
area  where  we  do  not  have  to  reinvent  the  wheel.  We 
need  only  build  upon  the  achievements  of  previous 
intergovernmental  negotiations, 
those 
that  took  place  this  past  year.  I  should  note,  in  that 
connection,  that  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
have been going on for quite a few years. In our view, 
various elements of convergence have emerged on all 
topics,  while  we  recognize  the  fact  that  two  out  of 
the five issues on the list — the relationship between 
the  Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly, 
and  the  size  of  an  enlarged  Council  and  its  working 
methods  —  have  gained  the  most  traction.  They  now 
have  to  be  transformed  into  concrete  proposals,  but 
work should be continued in all areas.
We believe special attention should be given to the 
following  three  issues:  the  categories  of  membership, 
regional representation and the question of the use of 
the veto in cases with regard to which the convergence 
of  views  is  less  clear  and  has  not  been  set  out  in  a 
consolidated, written format. We should continue to bear 
in  mind  the  comprehensive,  and  often  interconnected 
nature, of the reform, which encompasses all five of the 
key issues set out in decision 62/557 of 15 September 
2008.
Hungary  continues  to  support  the  enlargement  of 
the  Security  Council  in  both  the  permanent  and  the 
non-permanent  categories.  As  a  guiding  principle, 
enlargement must continue to be based on regional groups 
and  must  be  guided  by  their  equitable  representation. 
In  that  spirit,  Hungary  reiterates  its  call  for  a  second 
non-permanent seat for the Group of Eastern European 
States, which is a request that is part of any enlargement 
model.  There  are  different  and  legitimate  national 
views when it comes to Security Council reform. The 
only way to cater to those interests, while agreeing on 
the much-needed reform itself, is through meaningful 
consultations.  We  should  be  moving  forward  with 
substantial text-based negotiations. Hungary is looking 
forward  to  receiving  proposals  from  the  co-Chairs 
on a relevant work programme and a schedule for the 
negotiating sessions.
I  also  believe  that  simply  enlarging  the  Council 
without  further  reforms  in  its  working  methods  can 
only  recreate  the  present  problems.  Together  with 
111  countries,  Hungary  supports  the  code  of  conduct 
that constitutes a voluntary pledge not to vote against 
Security  Council  resolutions  aimed  at  preventing  or 
ending atrocity crimes. The issue of the veto lies very 
much at the heart of our negotiations.
Hungary  is  ready  to  continue  working  actively  to 
reform the Security Council.
Mr.  Beleffi  (San  Marino):  I  would  first  like  to 
thank the President for convening our annual debate on 
Security Council reform.
San  Marino  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered by the representative of Italy on behalf of the 
Uniting for Consensus group (see A/71/PV.42). I would 
also like to make some remarks in my national capacity.
San  Marino  has  always  believed  that  reform  of 
the  Security  Council  must  be  based  on  the  principles 
of democracy, transparency and accountability, which 
should  be  integral  to  any  United  Nations  reform 
effort, not just to that of the Security Council. A wide 
majority  of  Member  States  welcomed  the  reform  of 
the  selection  process  for  the  position  of  Secretary-
General  introduced  during  the  previous  session  of 
the  Assembly,  making  that  process  more  democratic, 
transparent and inclusive. Now we need a wide majority 
of  Member  States  to  agree  on  reforms  that  can  make 
the Council more democratic, transparent, accountable, 
representative  and  effective.  In  our  view,  if  we  want 
to  stick  to  those  principles,  regular  elections  are  the 
only  way  to  ensure  an  accountable  and  democratic 
Council. An increase only in non-permanent seats, to 
which Member States must be elected, can ensure that 
the  principles  of  democracy  and  accountability  will 
be observed.
With regard to the process of reforming the Security 
Council, San Marino welcomes the decision to appoint 
two co-Chairs for the intergovernmental negotiations, 
and  I  congratulate  the  Ambassadors  of  Romania 
and  Tunisia  on  their  assumption  of  that  important 
16-36737
17/25
A/71/PV.43 
07/11/2016
responsibility.  The  delegation  of  San  Marino  assures 
them of its full collaboration during the negotiations. 
Even if wide differences remain on critical issues, 
we Member States are all agreed on Assembly decision 
62/557.  That  indicates  that  credible  Security  Council 
reform  requires  a  comprehensive  approach  and  that 
the  negotiations  must  be  driven  by  Member  States. 
We  are  familiar  with  each  other’s  points  of  view  on 
the  various  topics  relating  to  reform.  It  is  now  our 
collective responsibility to move the process forward. 
We believe that only a compromise solution will enable 
us to achieve comprehensive Security Council reform.
Ms.  Morton  (New  Zealand):  Since  the  United 
Nations  was  established  in  1945,  the  world  has 
undergone  huge  changes.  The  Organization  has 
grown  from  51  Member  States  to  193  today.  Against 
that backdrop and in the face of unprecedented global 
challenges, Security Council reform has become more 
critical than ever. The United Nations needs a Security 
Council that is capable of acting to prevent and resolve 
the kinds of crises facing the world in 2016 and beyond.
We thank the President for appointing the Permanent 
Representatives  of  Romania  and  Tunisia  as  co-Chairs 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process,  and 
we  wish  them  all  the  best  in  the  challenging  task 
ahead.  New  Zealand  also  thanks  the  previous  Chair, 
Ambassador  Lucas  of  Luxembourg.  We  hope  that  the 
new co-Chairs will build on her excellent work. In that 
regard, the elements of convergence represent a useful 
point from which to move forward.
As a current elected member of the Security Council, 
New Zealand is acutely aware of the challenges that too 
often result in poor performance by the Council. Many 
of  those  challenges  flow  directly  from  the  Council’s 
1945 framework, particularly regarding the status and 
role of its permanent members. 
More  than  25  years  of  negotiations  on  structural 
reform  of  the  Council  demonstrate  that  reform  based 
on  the  concept  of  new  permanent  members  will  be 
very difficult to achieve. That is why New Zealand is 
a  supporter  of  an  intermediate  solution  for  Security 
Council  expansion.  Recognizing  the  realities  of  the 
situation, New Zealand has put significant energy into 
pushing for internal reforms of the Council as it is now, 
and especially into securing meaningful improvements 
to its day-to-day working methods so as to make them 
more effective, results-driven, transparent and inclusive.
New  Zealand  has  pushed  to  enhance  the  quality 
of  informal  discussions  in  the  Council,  with  the  aim 
of  improving  its  capacity  to  respond  collectively  to 
conflict  and  emerging  crises.  We  have  driven  reform 
of the process for appointing the chairs of the Council’s 
subsidiary  bodies,  taking  that  important  role  out  of 
the  exclusive  control  of  the  five  permanent  members. 
New Zealand has also worked with the Secretariat and 
other Council members to establish monthly situational 
awareness  briefings  designed  to  ensure  that  Council 
members have access to quality information on evolving 
and potential crises.
In  the  context  of  peacekeeping,  New  Zealand 
has  hosted  informal  triangular  meetings  on  specific 
peacekeeping  operations  aimed  at  ensuring  more 
effective, thorough and respectful consultations among 
the  Council,  the  Secretariat  and  troop-contributing 
countries.  We  have  also  strongly  advocated  for  better 
working  methods  to  reflect  the  needs  of  conflict 
prevention and of the Council’s mandate under Chapter 
VI of the Charter of the United Nations. The prevention 
of  conflict  requires  much  better  shared  information 
from the field and better practical engagement on the 
part  of  Council  members.  To  help  achieve  that,  New 
Zealand  has  supported  increasing  country  visits  by 
the  Council.  We  are  pleased  to  note  that  this  week 
the Council will visit the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo and Angola, its fifth visiting mission for 2016.
I have mentioned small but impactful reforms that 
have the potential to improve the quality of the Council’s 
discussions  and  performance  over  the  long  term.  We 
urge Council members to continue such reforms in the 
years to come and to progressively add to them. Such 
reforms can be accomplished; they are not impossible. 
We  note  the  value  of  achieving  procedural  reform 
through  the  agreement  of  all  Council  members,  if 
possible. But we should also remember that most issues 
related  to  working  methods  are  ultimately  procedural 
in  nature  and  are  therefore  governed  by  Article  27, 
paragraph 2, of the Charter.
Mr. Gómez Camacho (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
Mexico  associates  itself  with  the  statement  delivered 
earlier  by  the  representative  of  Italy  on  behalf  of  the 
Uniting for Consensus group (see A/71/PV.42).
My  country  welcomes  today’s  meeting  and  the 
President’s  appointment  of  Ambassadors  Jinga  and 
Khiari as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiation 
process for Security Council reform. Their appointment 
18/25 
16-36737
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.43
will  give  the  process  fresh  and  positive  momentum 
and  should  help  to  ensure  that  the  negotiations  are 
guided by the principles of transparency, impartiality, 
objectivity  and  inclusiveness,  as  was  the  case  in  the 
previous session under Ambassador Lucas.
This  has  been  a  year  of  paradigm  change  in  our 
Organization.  With  renewed  vitality,  the  General 
Assembly is already playing a central role in the United 
Nations. We have shown that the United Nations can be 
different. It is not a sclerotic 70-year-old organism but 
an  organization  capable  of  being  modern  and  current 
and, above all, one that can respond to the expectations 
of  the  international  community  in  the  twenty-first 
century. 
It  is  increasingly  evident  that  15  States  in  the 
Security Council are not enough to represent us all. It is 
becoming increasingly clear every day that the Security 
Council  must  revise  and  modernize 
its  working 
methods, that it must not fall into a state of paralysis, 
and that its inaction may lead the whole Organization 
into irrelevance.
Reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  possible,  and 
the  proposal  by  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  is 
a  realistic  and  viable  proposal  around  which  a  new 
understanding should be formed. 
Mexico affirms that we have a proposal is inclusive 
and  is  based  on  democracy,  because  it  is  founded  on 
inclusion  and  attends  in  the  most  obvious  way  to  the 
aspirations  of  all.  The  compromise  formula,  which 
Mexico  and  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  are 
promoting  is  based  on  the  creation  of  non-permanent 
seats  with  long-term  mandates  and  the  possibility  of 
immediate  re-election.  That  would  allow  for  a  fair 
and  equitable  representation  in  the  Council,  as  well 
as  an  increase  in  the  number  of  non-permanent  seats 
with  two-year  terms.  That  model  provides  sufficient 
room  for  action  to  negotiate  and  ensure  appropriate 
regional 
for  all  underrepresented 
groups,  including  small  States,  while  preserving  the 
principles  of  transparency  and  accountability  to  the 
General Assembly.
representation 
Our 
includes 
proposal,  which 
immediate 
re-election, contributes with greater transparency and 
efficiency  to  equitable  geographical  representation 
and  to  the  assumption  of  greater  responsibilities  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
attending  to  the  legitimate  interest    of  those  States 
seeking long-term seats. 
The  Uniting  for  Consensus  formula  seeks  the 
democratization  of  the  Security  Council,  which  must 
be  a  key  objective  and  a  value  shared  by  all  of  us.  It 
rejects  the  creation  of  additional  privileges  for  only 
some  countries.  If  we  continue  to  give  permanent 
privileges  to  just  a  few  members  in  order  to  meet 
national  ambitions  to  the  detriment  of  the  collective 
interest, we will not achieve our goal. Those privileges 
do not belong in a modern and democratic organization. 
They have nothing to do with the twenty-first century.
The  strengthened  participation  of  the  General 
Assembly  in  the  historic  process  that  resulted  in  the 
election  of  António  Guterres  as  Secretary-General 
confirmed that it is time to build convergences among 
the  various  positions  of  Member  States  and  in  that 
way  move  forward  towards  an  integral  reform  of  the 
Security Council.
The delegation of Mexico will be constructive and 
active  in  that  process,  which  should  be  developed  on 
the  basis  of  all  the  proposals  by  Member  States,  as 
stipulated in decision 62/557, and not only on the basis 
of certain documents submitted by previous facilitators 
who worked earlier in that process.
Mr.  Bin  Momen  (Bangladesh):  We  thank  the 
President for convening this debate as a curtain-raiser 
to  the  work  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security Council reform during the General Assembly 
at its seventy-first session.
in  debating 
Bangladesh  reaffirms  the  central  role  of  the 
the  question  of  equitable 
Assembly 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership 
of  the  Security  Council  and  other  matters  relating  to 
the  Council.  We  underscore  the  need  to  sustain  the 
momentum of earlier discussions to identify elements 
of  convergence  among  Member  States  on  the  five 
interrelated and mutually reinforcing issues that form 
part of this agenda item.
Bangladesh  welcomes  the  appointment  of  the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Romania  and  Tunisia, 
Ambassador Jinga and Ambassador Khiari respectively, 
as co-Chairs of the negotiations for the current session. 
We look forward to an early outline of the co-Chairs’ 
workplan  with  suggestions  on  the  structure,  format 
and  purpose  of  our  discussions  going  forward.  We 
wish to see our deliberations advance in the direction 
of  starting  up  text-based  negotiations  with  a  view  to 
achieving tangible and meaningful outcomes.
16-36737
19/25
A/71/PV.43 
07/11/2016
In  the  past  couple  of  years,  we  have  witnessed 
active interest among a large number of delegations in 
taking the discussions forward in a decisive direction. 
We  have  also  seen  openness  among  others  to  engage 
in frank, interactive dialogue so as to explore answers 
to certain outstanding issues. It is critical to underpin 
the  comprehensive  nature  of  the  Council’s  reform 
agenda, and the primacy of a set of objective, rational 
and  non-arbitrary  criteria  for  informing  and  guiding 
the outcome of the ongoing negotiations. It should be 
in the shared interest of all Member States to maintain 
the  forward-leaning  thrust  of  those  discussions  in  a 
collegial atmosphere.
At  this  stage,  we  suggest  that  due  consideration 
should be given to views expressed by Member States 
at  various  negotiation  meetings,  in  addition  to  the 
elements  contained  in  the  framework  document  on 
Security Council reform and its annex, as well as the 
elements  paper  from  the  previous  two  negotiating 
sessions.  We  have  noted  some  creative  suggestions 
emanating  from  the  evolving  discussions  that  may 
effectively  contribute 
the  current  exercise  of 
identifying elements of convergence.
to 
The former Chair of the negotiations helped us to 
arrive at a common set of priorities shared by the entire 
membership on two of the issues under consideration. 
We  believe  that  there  is  ample  scope  for  further 
constructive  efforts 
identifying  common 
elements  on  the  other  three  critical  issues  and  for 
forging consensus in areas where divergences prevail. 
In that regard, my delegation stands ready to extend its 
full cooperation to the newly appointed co-Chairs.
towards 
To  briefly  recapitulate  our  position,  we  reiterate 
our support for the enlargement of the Council in both 
the  permanent  and  the  non-permanent  categories.  We 
subscribe  to  the  view  that  the  size  of  the  enlarged 
Council  should  be  in  the  mid-twenties  range,  with 
adequate representation for the various regional blocs, 
especially  those  that  are  underrepresented  in  the 
current composition.
Mr.  Dorji  (Bhutan):  I  thank  the  President  for 
convening this important debate.
My delegation associates itself with the statement 
delivered by Ambassador Menissa Rambally, Permanent 
Representative  of  Saint  Lucia,  on  behalf  of  the  L.69 
group of developing countries (see A/71/PV.42). 
We meet again to deliberate on a subject of great 
importance to this institution and to all of us. We are 
confident  that  our  deliberations  under  the  leadership 
of  the  President  of  the  Assembly  will  be  meaningful 
and productive.
Bhutan welcomes the appointment of Ambassador 
Ion  Jinga,  Permanent  Representative  of  Romania, 
and  Ambassador  Mohamed  Khiari,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Tunisia,  as  co-Chairs  of 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.  I  assure  them  of  Bhutan’s  full  support  and 
cooperation. I also commend the previous Chair of the 
negotiations, Ambassador Sylvie Lucas of Luxembourg, 
for her leadership and contributions during the General 
Assembly at its seventieth session.
We meet at a time defined by important, ground-
breaking  agreements,  such  as  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  the  Addis  Ababa  Action 
Agenda  on  financing  for  development  and  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  Those  positive 
developments bear testimony to our collective resolve to 
advance peace, security, human rights and sustainable 
development. Against that backdrop, we must now work 
in  earnest,  with  similar  resolve,  to  bring  to  fruition 
the call by our leaders in 2005 for early reform of the 
Security Council.
Since the founding of the United Nations, the world 
has  undergone  profound  changes.  The  membership 
of  the  Organization  has  increased  fourfold,  and  the 
challenges  we  face  have  become  more  complex. 
Institutions cannot remain static; they must evolve and 
adapt to stay relevant, effective and fit for purpose. As 
the  principal  organ  of  the  United  Nations  responsible 
for the maintenance of international peace and security, 
the Security Council must be made more representative, 
efficient  and  transparent.  Bhutan  supports  the  need 
to  reform  the  Security  Council  in  keeping  with 
contemporary realities. The expansion of the Security 
Council  in  both  categories  of  membership  and  the 
improvement  of  its  working  methods  is  necessary  to 
further  strengthen  and  enhance  the  legitimacy  and 
functioning of the Council and to ensure that it is well 
poised to address the complex challenges of our times.
In this regard, Bhutan welcomes the formation of 
the  group  of  friends  of  Security  Council  reform  —  a 
diverse  group  of  countries  committed  to  accelerating 
the  negotiating  process  for  meaningful  reform  of 
the  Security  Council  based  on  the  principles  of 
20/25 
16-36737
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.43
commitment  to  early  reform,  text-based  negotiations 
and  the  expansion  of  the  Council  in  both  categories 
of membership.
negotiations 
We  have  engaged  extensively  on  the  question  of 
Security  Council  reform  for  many  years.  However, 
the lack of a negotiation text has inhibited meaningful 
progress.  It  is  now  essential  to  move  beyond  the 
restatement  of  well-known  positions  and  make  the 
intergovernmental 
results-
oriented by commencing text-based negotiations. Only 
then will we be able to build on areas of convergence 
and seek out common ground in areas that we disagree 
on. We look to the leadership of the President and that 
of the co-Chairs to take the process forward in a manner 
that  will  yield  concrete  results.  Towards  this  end,  my 
delegation  looks  forward  to  engaging  constructively 
with all delegations.
process 
Ms.  Chuard  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 
Switzerland  would  like  to  thank  the  President  for 
convening  this  meeting  on  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership 
of  the  Security  Council  and  other  matters  related  to 
the  Security  Council.  We  would  also  like  to  thank 
Ambassador Jinga and Ambassador Khiarie for having 
agreed to co-chair the intergovernmental negotiations 
on  this  matter.  We  wish  them  every  success  in  their 
work and reassure them of Switzerland’s support in the 
discussions on this important issue.
Switzerland  welcomes  the  positive  developments 
that  have  taken  place  during  the  most  recent  round 
of  negotiations  and  thanks  the  former  Permanent 
Representative  of  Luxembourg  for  her  efforts.  Lastly, 
we  encourage  all  States  to  participate  constructively 
in  the  upcoming  negotiations  with  a  view  to  making 
progress  on  this  crucial  issue  and  to  take  into 
consideration the documents indicating the elements of 
convergence developed during the seventieth session of 
the General Assembly.
to  welcome 
foremost,  allow  me 
Ms. Flores Herrera (Panama) (spoke in Spanish): 
First  and 
the 
President’s  initiative  in  calling  for  the  resumption  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform with a view to breathing new life into this very 
important process and to commend him for convening 
this  debate  on  issues  related  to  the  question  of  equal 
representation on the Security Council and increasing 
its membership and related matters.
We would like to express anew our appreciation to 
the representatives of Jamaica and Luxembourg for their 
work during the two past sessions. We would also like 
to wish every success to the Ambassadors of Romania 
and  Tunisia  as  they  take  on  this  important  challenge. 
Panama is always ready to participate constructively in 
all the initiatives being undertaken with the overriding 
goal  of  achieving  a  democratic  and  representative 
Security Council.
The  size  of  an  expanded  Council  has  been 
addressed  at  various  times  in  the  course  of  these 
negotiations.  Clearly,  this  is  a  point  of  agreement 
among a significant number of States that believe that 
such  increase  arises  naturally  and  logically  from  the 
growth of the Organization and thus from the regional 
and  representative  nature  that  should  be  reflected  in 
all its bodies. Panama has stated and now reiterates its 
view that this is a matter of simple arithmetic. In 1963, 
the Security Council consisted of 11 of the 51 Member 
States,  which  was  22  per  cent  of  the  Organization’s 
membership. Today, however, only 2.59 per cent of the 
total membership is represented. That is a far cry from 
the necessary point of equity that a global body requires.
The Security Council membership is not indifferent 
to the majority’s desire to transition towards a Council 
with  a  better  geographical  balance  and  greater 
participation by States in the decision-making process. 
The  Council  cannot  remain  subject  to  the  decisions, 
and even less to the differences, of five States, because 
that limits the comprehensive treatment of the items on 
its  agenda,  as  has  been  made  disturbingly  clear  very 
recently. 
In  the  various  proposals  that  have  been  set  forth 
over the course of the sessions, the number of members 
of a reformed Council varies between 21 and 27. That is 
very important as a basis for discussion as we continue 
to seek consensus. Nevertheless, my delegation places 
even greater importance on the political will, attitude 
and  acceptance  of  change  manifested  by  States, 
especially the permanent five, as they address this issue 
and participate in and continue this process.
The positions can be and, indeed, are different, but 
we must get rid of polarized positions with conditions 
attached so as to move towards the centre, in a common 
understanding  of  the  need  for  reform,  To  that  end, 
Panama  supports  the  continuation  of  negotiations 
on  the  basis  of  a  text,  which  we  already  have  in  the 
framework document. 
16-36737
21/25
A/71/PV.43 
07/11/2016
Panama reaffirms its position on the need to evolve 
toward a Security Council of the twenty-first century, 
in harmony with a varied and complex global context 
that  increasingly  demands  an  efficient  and  effective 
Council, and given the new challenges that cannot be 
tackled with old strategies.
With 
is 
regard 
imperative 
to 
the 
equitable 
that  more  of 
representation, 
it 
traditionally 
underrepresented  States  —  especially  developing 
States,  African  States,  island  States,  States  in  Latin 
America and the Caribbean and States in Asia and the 
Pacific — become active participants in the deliberations 
and especially in the decisions of the Security Council 
and  its  subsidiary  bodies.  With  that  participatory 
vision, Panama has proposed a conciliatory, time-based 
solution  to  Security  Council  reform  whereby,  over  a 
period of from 15 to 30 years, we would transition to a 
Security Council that by the United Nations hundredth 
anniversary, in 2045, would be made up of 26 members, 
all serving on an equal basis and all elected for a term of 
three years, with the option of consecutive re-election.
the 
approaches of those countries that want to modernize, 
update  and  strengthen 
the  Security  Council  by 
increasing  its  membership  as  an  expression  of  the 
legitimacy and representativeness of the 193 States and 
of  geographical  balance;  by  increasing  participation 
by  States,  principally  developing  countries,  in  the 
decision-making  process;  by  getting  rid  of  the  veto; 
and by eliminating special status and exclusive powers 
within that body, in the interest of the sovereign equality 
of all its members.
In  brief,  Panama  shares  and  supports 
In conclusion, I would like to stress that in a world 
convulsed by terrorism, extreme violence and growing 
humanitarian  crises, 
international  public  opinion 
hopes  for  and  expects  more  from  the  United  Nations. 
That having been said, progress in the reform process 
is  dependent  on  good-faith  and  ethical  negotiations 
conducted  in  absolute  transparency,  as  well  as  on 
detachment, respect and open-mindedness towards the 
interactive debate that we are now resuming.
Ms.  Sapag  Muñoz  de  la  Peña  (Chile)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Chile  is  grateful  for  the  convening  of  this 
meeting  in  the  framework  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform to address the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters.  We  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation 
for  the  work  done  by  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas, 
and  we  recall  the  framework  document  prepared  by 
Ambassador  Rattray  during  the  sixty-ninth  session. 
Also,  we  welcome  the  Permanent  Representatives 
of  Romania  and  Tunisia  as  co-Chairs  at  the  current 
session, and we wish them every success in their work.
In  that  connection,  we  appeal  for  compromise 
solutions that would allow us to move forward with the 
reform to make the work of the Security Council truly 
legitimate and transparent. The recent selection process 
for  the  Secretary-General,  as  well  as  the  dynamic 
observed  in  the  work  of  the  Council  in  particularly 
complex and painful situations, make it more necessary 
than  ever  before  to  make  progress  towards  ensuring 
those two qualities: legitimacy and transparency.
Regarding  the  categories  of  Security  Council 
membership,  we  stress  that  we  must  expand  both  the 
permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  so  that  the 
Council can be a truly representative body that reflects 
the  new  geopolitical  realities  and  can  address  the 
situations on its agenda appropriately. At the same time, 
we recognize the progress that has been made since the 
last reform of the Council. We reiterate our position that 
the  expansion  of  the  category  of  permanent  members 
does not mean an extension of the right of veto. In that 
regard, Chile reaffirms its commitment to the code of 
conduct  on  restricting  the  use  of  the  veto,  promoted 
by  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency 
group, of which we are a member, and also to the joint 
France-Mexico political declaration.
the  question  of 
The  various  proposals  —  on 
the  categories 
of  members, 
the  veto,  regional 
representation and the relationship between the Council 
and  the  Assembly  —  as  a  whole  must  lead  to  more 
efficient  working  methods  that  make  it  possible  for 
the Council to address the challenges to international 
peace  and  security  in  a  timely  manner.  Equally,  we 
must avoid reforms that impede the working methods 
of the Council. 
Chile reiterates its support for the co-Chairs and our 
commitment to advancing the reform of the Council.
Ms. Sande (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): Uruguay 
expresses its gratitude for the convening of this meeting 
of  the  Assembly  to  address  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council.  We  congratulate  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Romania,  Ambassador  Ion  Jinga, 
22/25 
16-36737
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.43
and Ambassador Mohamed Khaled Khiari, Permanent 
Representative of Tunisia, on their task as co-Chairs.
work  towards  a  balanced  increase  in  the  membership 
and a change in the voting procedure.
As  we  have  said  in  previous  statements  on  the 
subject,  Uruguay  has  upheld  the  principles  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations. Since the Organization 
was  established,  we  have  struggled  for  the  growth  of 
the  Organization  because  of  the  resulting  benefits  in 
terms of peace, the promotion and protection of human 
rights and the development of States. We are convinced 
that  the  Security  Council  exercises  a  most  important 
responsibility in the task of maintaining peace, and the 
democratization of its composition and decision-making 
processes is essential.
Uruguay  understands  why  at  the  time  when  the 
United  Nations  was  established  —  and  given  the 
failure of its predecessor, the League of Nations — it 
was  necessary  for  States  to  commit  to  the  provisions 
of  its  founding  Charter  and  the  involvement  of  the 
victors  of  the  Second  World  War  as  a  way  to  ensure 
the  continuity  and  functioning  of  the  Organization. 
We  believe  that  today’s  world  requires  more  action 
and commitment on the part of States when they work 
together and cooperate in order to prevent and resolve 
conflicts. And in that regard, having more members in 
the Security Council would undoubtedly create balance 
in the decision-making processes.
Uruguay reiterates its support for both the United 
Nations and the commitment it assumed from the outset 
to supporting the development of the Organization and 
any growth or change in it that would lead to a greater 
balance and facilitate the realization of its objectives.
from 
the 
resulting 
Uruguay  has  opposed  and  continues  to  oppose 
conferring  the  privilege  of  veto  power  on  any  new 
permanent  members 
reform. 
Uruguay’s position goes back to the very moment when 
the Organization was established at the San Francisco 
Conference.  The  delegation  of  Uruguay  underlined 
the  need  to  not  have  differences  of  prerogatives  or 
rights  among  the  members  of  the  Security  Council, 
while  accepting  that  those  countries  that  had  borne 
the greatest burden of the war would have seats on the 
Security Council — not indefinitely, but for a period of 
time considered prudent. 
Accordingly, we wish to announce that, given the 
development  of  the  discussions  and  the  nature  of  the 
proposals  put  forth,  the  delegation  of  Uruguay  will 
support the consensus and assumes the commitment to 
congratulate 
Mr.  Awad  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  I  thank  the  President  for  convening  such  an 
important meeting. I would like to take the opportunity 
to 
the  Permanent  Representatives 
of  Romania  and  Tunisia  on  their  appointment  as 
co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations on the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters.  We  assure  them  of  our  cooperation  in  the 
upcoming  negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform, 
as  the  United  Nations  cannot  be  reformed  unless  the 
Council is reformed.
Allow  me  at  the  outset  to  clarify  the  position  of 
Syria on the important issue before us. Syria is among 
those countries that have been calling for reform of the 
Security Council over the past 24 years. We participated 
effectively in the first Open-ended Working Group with 
a view to ensuring that the Security Council reflects the 
status quo of today, many years after its establishment. 
My delegation is of the view that in the negotiations, 
the  five  key  issues  of  reform  set  out  in  decision 
62/557 — categories of membership, the question of the 
veto, regional representation, size of an enlarged Security 
Council and its working methods, and the relationship 
between  the  Council  and  the  Assembly  —  should  be 
discussed together. Moreover, we believe that the United 
Nations 
intergovernmental  negotiating  machinery 
should be used for the negotiations.
My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  the  issues  of 
categories  of  membership  and  regional  representation 
require further discussion, because, after what we have 
witnessed, there is the potential to deepen the existing 
divides in the Security Council in its current structure. 
Certain  countries  that  have  become  members  of  the 
Council  are  not  politically  independent,  but  rather 
are  pressured  by  other  countries.  Those  countries 
are  set  on  satisfying  the  influential  countries,  whose 
agendas  they  serve  at  the  expense  of  international 
legitimacy. The positions advanced by those countries 
in the Security Council are merely a reiteration of the 
positions  of  the  super-Powers  in  that  organ.  This  has 
impeded  the  Council  from  playing  its  important  role 
in the maintenance of international peace and security.
We  would  like  to  see  an  enlargement  of  the 
Council,  but  we  must  be  wary  about  which  countries 
are  to  be  chosen.  When  it  comes  to  the  election  of 
16-36737
23/25
A/71/PV.43 
07/11/2016
States to the Security Council, the criteria of neutrality 
and objectivity must be observed. The Council, in its 
current structure since its reform in 1965, has not been 
able  to  maintain  international  peace  and  security.  It 
has  become  an  organ  that  establishes  peacekeeping 
operations and deploys them to one or another location. 
The evidence to support this thesis lies in the fact that 
conflicts have doubled in number since the end of the 
Cold  War.  That  is  a  true  reflection  of  the  Council’s 
failure  to  maintain  international  peace  and  security, 
and of its neglect of many acts of aggression, especially 
the invasions of Iraq, Lebanon and Gaza, as well as the 
current events in Yemen, where the Council has failed to 
implement its own resolutions regarding anti-terrorism.
In conclusion, my delegation confirms that it will 
actively  participate  in  the  upcoming  negotiations  on 
Security Council reform in order to create a Council that 
is committed to the Charter of the United Nations and 
to humanitarian law, and that respects the sovereignty, 
independence  and  integrity  of  countries  and  the 
principle of non-interference in their internal affairs.
Mr.  Abulhasan  (Kuwait)  (spoke 
in  Arabic): 
My  delegation  welcomes  the  letter  of  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  dated  26  October  2016, 
which  emphasizes  the  importance  placed  on  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform. We also welcome the appointment of Ambassador 
Ion Jinga and Ambassador Mohamed Khiari to co-chair 
those negotiations. We are prepared to make a positive 
contribution to those very important negotiations.
regional 
As  of  today,  we  have  been  debating  the  issue 
of  Security  Council  reform  for  23  years.  Numerous 
international  and 
initiatives  have  been 
launched with respect to the five pillars of the reform, 
as  set  out  in  decision  62/557.  The  goal  has  been  to 
move  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  forward,  yet 
certain points remain unclear. Greater political will is 
required, particularly on the part of the five permanent 
members of the Security Council, in order to achieve 
our common objective.
The accelerating momentum of events in the world 
must spur us to press on with the negotiations and to 
consider  rational  positions.  However,  any  decision 
to  enlarge  or  otherwise  modify  the  Security  Council 
should  enjoy  the  broadest  possible  consensus.  That  is 
why  Kuwait  supports  the  code  of  conduct  proposed 
by  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and  Accountability 
group  regarding  the  improvement  of  the  Council’s 
working methods, as well as the restriction of the use 
of the veto in the event of crimes against humanity. We 
also welcome the joint proposal of France and Mexico 
for  a  voluntary  agreement  on  non-use  of  the  veto  in 
cases of mass atrocities.
In recent years, the position of Kuwait on Security 
Council  reform  has  not  changed.  It  is  based  on  the 
following principles.
First,  reform  of  the  Security  Council  must  be 
accompanied by the reform of the United Nations as a 
whole in order to add complementarity and balance to 
the  work  of  the  Organization.  We  must  also  improve 
the  relationship  between  the  Security  Council  and 
other  bodies  so  that  the  Council  does  not  encroach 
on  the  prerogatives  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Economic and Social Council. Its role should be limited 
to the maintenance of international peace and security. 
All  the  ideas  put  forward  regarding  Security 
Council reform should be based on our shared aim to 
improve  the  representation  of  Member  States  on  that 
organ and to reflect the international reality, which has 
changed  significantly  since  the  United  Nations  was 
founded in 1945. It is also important to pursue efforts 
to improve the Council’s working methods and increase 
their  transparency.  In  addition,  the  provisional  rules 
of  procedure  must  be  replaced  by  permanent  rules 
of procedure.
Secondly,  the  use  of  the  veto  should  be  limited 
to  cases  covered  by  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations.  Any  increase  in  the  number  of 
seats  should  allow  small  States  to  be  represented  on 
the  Council  and  to  participate  in  its  work.  We  must 
also  not  forget  the  rights  of  Arab  and  Muslim  States 
to  have  a  seat  on  the  Council.  In  that  regard,  we  call 
for  a  permanent  seat  and  a  non-permanent  seat  to  be 
accorded to Arab members.
Thirdly, the intergovernmental negotiations should 
be the only means of achieving consensus on Security 
Council  reform,  in  accordance  with  decision  62/557, 
which laid the basis for the negotiations. 
Lastly,  Kuwait  believes  that  a  successful  reform 
of the Security Council will depend on the principles 
of flexibility and compromise. Lack of consensus will 
only undermine the credibility of those negotiations.
Mr.  Khiari  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  on  behalf  of  both  myself  and  my  colleague, 
Ambassador  Ion  Jinga.  Permanent  Representative 
24/25 
16-36737
07/11/2016 
A/71/PV.43
of  Romania,  I  thank  the  President  for  the  trust  that 
he  has  placed  in  us  by  designating  us  as  co-Chairs 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform.  We  are  aware  that  the  responsibility 
is a heavy one and that the negotiations are extremely 
important to the President and the Member States. The 
process of reforming our Organization depends on the 
negotiations, while dealing with today’s challenges to 
international peacee and security is in turn dependent 
on that reform. I also thank my colleagues Ambassador 
Tanin,  Ambassador  Rattray  and  Ambassador  Lucas, 
who chaired the negotiations during previous sessions.
The President’s letter addressed to Member States, 
dated 26 October 2016, emphasizes the importance of 
continuing  to  build  on  what  was  achieved  during  the 
two previous sessions with respect to intergovernmental 
negotiations, as outlined in the 31 July 2015 text and its 
annex  and  the  elements  of  convergence  circulated  on 
12 July 2016.
(spoke in French)
The positions and proposals of Member States and 
negotiating groups are, for the most part, known to all 
of  us.  What  lies  ahead  in  the  short  term  is  exploring 
any  paths,  means  and  options  that  will  allow  us  to 
advance in the negotiation process, which we want to be 
inclusive, trust-based and carried out in good faith. In 
accordance with the relevant resolutions of the General 
Assembly,  we  will  lead  the  negotiations  in  a  neutral, 
independent manner that is open to the participation of 
all groups and Member States. Our goal continues to be 
to achieve together results that reflect and build on the 
the achievements of recent years, results that respond 
to our aspirations to conduct a reform process leading 
to  a  Security  Council  that  is  more  representative  and 
efficient and more capable of meeting the challenges to 
international peace and security.
In that regard, I recall that, as reaffirmed today by 
several delegations, progress in the process of reform 
depends  primarily  on  Member  States.  The  success  of 
our  mission  will  therefore  be  largely  dependent  on 
the  resolve  and  determination  of  Member  States  and 
various negotiating groups to move forward in our joint 
endeavour.  We  welcome  the  broad  support  expressed 
today,  as  well  as  the  disposition  of  Member  States  to 
cooperate closely with a view to reconciling their views 
and  positions  on  various  reform-related  elements  and 
issues. The goal is to work together in a coherent and 
flexible manner in the framework of a dialogue that we 
want to be constructive and productive.
In the coming days, we will begin to contact and 
consult  with  Member  States  and  negotiating  groups. 
We  will  update  everybody  as  soon  as  possible  on  the 
next  steps.  It  goes  without  saying  that  our  doors  are 
open  to  all  Member  States.  We  will  do  our  utmost  to 
fulfil our responsibility. The steady support of Member 
States will be a certain help to us.
The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m.
16-36737
25/25
