United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
30th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 19 October 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.30
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda items 68
Promotion and protection of human rights
(a) Implementation of human rights instruments
Commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of 
the adoption of the International Covenant on 
Civil and Political Rights and the International 
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural 
Rights
The  President:  Fifty  years  ago,  the  General 
Assembly made a historic advancement in our efforts 
to promote and protect human rights across our globe 
through  the  adoption  of  the  International  Covenant 
on  Civil  and  Political  Rights  and  the  International 
Covenant  on  Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Rights. 
This landmark achievement built upon the commitments 
of the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  by  legally  obligating 
States, for the first time, to respect, protect and fulfil 
the human rights inherent in each and every individual.
In the 50 years since their adoption, the International 
Covenants  have  become  cornerstones  of  both 
international  law  and  the  international  human  rights 
framework, based upon the fundamental recognition of 
the  universality,  indivisibility  and  independent  nature 
of human rights. Across our world, they have helped to 
shape constitutions, laws, policies and justice systems. 
They  have  had  a  transformative  effect  on  the  lives  of 
people across the globe. This has been so because the 
power  of  the  International  Covenants  resides  in  their 
ability  to  protect  universal  rights  and  freedoms  in 
diverse  circumstances  and  situations.  And  the  expert 
committees  that  are  upholding  the  implementation  of 
the  International  Covenants  have  ensured  that  their 
provisions continue to frame our policy responses to a 
complex and rapidly changing world.
Despite  the  great  progress  we  have  made,  we 
live  in  times  when  people  across  our  world  are  being 
denied  their  most  fundamental  human  rights.  Violent 
extremism is on the rise and waves of intolerance and 
hate  are  targeting  minorities,  migrants  and  our  most 
vulnerable. Greater restrictions are being placed on our 
most  basic  rights  and  freedoms,  including  the  rights 
to  life,  liberty  and  security;  equality  before  the  law; 
to  gender  equality,  education  and  health;  to  freedom 
of expression, worship and association and to freedom 
from  discrimination,  torture,  slavery  and  hunger. 
Today’s  commemoration  is  a  timely  reminder  of  the 
power of these Covenants to ensure that States uphold 
the rights of all their people.
As Governments, civil society and the global public 
focus on ramping up implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, the mutually reinforcing 
nature of the pillars of human rights, peace and security 
and  development  could  not  be  clearer.  When  people’s 
human  rights  are  violated,  when  they  live  in  fear, 
when they are affected by conflict and violence, when 
they  are  subject  to  discrimination,  marginalization, 
intolerance, poverty and corruption, neither sustainable 
development nor sustainable peace is attainable.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-33261 (E)
*1633261*
A/71/PV.30 
19/10/2016
The 2030 Agenda is premised on the fundamental 
recognition  of  human  rights  for  all.  In  taking  a 
comprehensive and integrated approach to development, 
the  2030  Agenda  encapsulates  the  indivisibility  and 
interdependence of the human rights set forth in both 
Covenants. An effective implementation of the Agenda 
requires that this be done in a manner consistent with 
the  United  Nations  Charter,  international  treaties  and 
international law. Done the right way, work to achieve 
the  2030  Sustainable  Development  Agenda  and  the 
Human Rights Covenants will have to proceed hand in 
hand.
Indeed, the mantra of the 2030 Agenda of leaving no 
one behind recalls the principles of non-discrimination 
and equality that underlie the two Covenants. Sustainable 
Development  Goal  16  —  promoting  peaceful  and 
inclusive societies, access to justice and effective and 
accountable institutions — is fundamental to achieving 
success under all of the Sustainable Development Goals.
I call on all Member States that have yet to ratify 
either  or  both  Covenants  to  take  the  opportunity  of 
this  commemorative  year  to  do  so.  The  promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights  is  a  commitment  that 
requires constant vigilance by us all. Allow me here to 
quote John Donne’s celebrated verse:
“Any man’s death diminishes me,
because I am involved in mankind,
And therefore never send to know for whom
the bell tolls; it tolls for thee.”
These words ring as true today as when they were written 
400 years ago. Let us therefore mark the occasion of the 
fiftieth anniversary of the adoption of the Covenants by 
reaffirming our commitment to realizing the rights of 
all people, protecting those who are suffering injustice, 
fighting  xenophobia,  intolerance  and  discrimination, 
promoting  equality  and  empowerment  and  increasing 
global awareness and understanding of human rights as 
fundamental to all lives. There is much we can do better 
in our efforts to realize political, economical and social 
rights of mankind. And in doing so, we will do well to 
aim for greater respect and stronger implementation of 
the two Covenants we celebrate today.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  Deputy  Secretary-
General, His Excellency Mr. Jan Eliasson.
The Deputy Secretary-General: I am honoured to 
join the members of the Assembly today in marking a 
truly momentous occasion and to convey a message of 
support from Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
Half a century ago, the General Assembly adopted 
the 
two  International  Human  Rights  Covenants, 
completing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
to  form  the  International  Bill  of  Human  Rights.  This 
marked the beginning of a global constitution of human 
rights protection. The adoption galvanized the consensus 
view that the protection and realization of human rights 
is  fundamental  to  building  resilient,  inclusive  and 
peaceful  societies,  as  the  President  just  stated.  The 
Covenants  have  inspired  international  human  rights 
instruments  and  influenced  national  constitutions  the 
world  over.  They  have  guided  national  and  regional 
courts  and  provided  a  normative  foundation  for  the 
work of national independent human rights institutions. 
They have confirmed a common universal language of 
human  rights,  at  the  heart  of  which  remains  the  right 
to life. The abolition of the death penalty has advanced 
significantly, but we must step up our efforts towards 
ending this inhumane practice of executions once and 
for all.
On  another  level,  the  Human  Rights  Committee 
and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural 
Rights remind States parties to the two Covenants that 
they  have  to  account  publicly  for  their  human  rights 
performance. The Committees are crucial for the support 
and guidance of States in their implementation of human 
rights. They also help victims in many countries to seek 
remedies  when  rights  are  breached.  Our  aim  must  be 
the  universal  ratification  of  the  Covenants,  including 
the right of petition under their Optional Protocols and 
their full and effective realization for all people.
  Regrettably,  serious  human  rights  violations 
remain  a  huge  challenge.  I  refer  here  to  all  human 
rights: political, civil, economic, social and cultural. I 
think  of  protecting  civil  liberties  in  the  fight  against 
terrorism  and  violent  extremism;  of  preventing 
famine; of upholding social protection even in troubled 
economic  times;  of  respecting  religious  freedom, 
tolerance  and  freedom  from  discrimination  for  all, 
including  migrants;  of  shielding  everyone  from  all 
forms of violence, especially women and children; and 
of  creating  space  for  free  speech,  for  free  media  and 
for human rights defenders to act without intimidation.
In  a  world  of  widespread  suffering,  war,  poverty 
and  discrimination,  the  fiftieth  anniversary  is  an 
appropriate  moment  to  rally  around  the  Covenants’ 
2/10 
16-33261
19/10/2016 
A/71/PV.30
principles  and  vision.  The  Covenants  remind  us  how 
the  carnage  stemming  from  conflict  and  blatant 
disrespect  for  human  rights  and  humanitarian  law  is 
utterly inexcusable. They admonish us to never accept 
extreme poverty, intolerance, inequality or injustices.
We have more knowledge, tools and even resources 
now than ever before. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  provides  us  with  a  global  blueprint  to 
implement the Covenants in a broader and deeper sense. 
The Covenants in turn support stronger accountability 
in  respect  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  In 
parallel,  the  United  Nations  Human  Rights  Up  Front 
initiative  aims  to  enhance  the  ability  of  the  United 
Nations  system  to  prevent  and  respond  in  a  timely 
fashion to serious human rights violations before they 
turn into mass atrocities, as we have seen occur in so 
many cases.
All  human  rights  are  universal, 
interrelated, 
inalienable and indivisible. They form the bedrock of 
a humane world. Let us reaffirm this vision and turn it 
into realities in all corners of the world. Let us pledge to 
strengthen our political commitment to the Covenants: 
to guarantee freedom from fear and freedom from want 
and to protect human rights for all.
The  President:  I  thank  the  Deputy  Secretary-
General for his statement.
Before proceeding further, I should like to consult 
members with a view to inviting the following speakers 
to make statements on this occasion, as mentioned in 
my  letter  dated  6  October  2016:  Mr.  Zeid  Ra’ad  Al 
Hussein, United Nations High Commissioner for Human 
Rights; Mr. Fabián Omar Salvioli, Chair of the Human 
Rights Committee; and Mr. Waleed Sadi, Chair of the 
Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.
If  there  is  no  objection,  may  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly,  without  setting  a 
precedent, to invite these speakers to make statements 
at this commemorative meeting?
It was so decided.
The  President:  In  accordance  with  the  decision 
just taken, I now give the floor to Mr. Zeid Ra’ad Al 
Hussein,  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human Rights.
Mr. Al Hussein (United Nations High Commissioner 
for Human Rights): Half a century ago, our forebears 
in  this  Assembly  unanimously  adopted  two  great 
covenants and brought the force of law to the principles 
laid out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
Those covenants distilled the bitter lessons learnt from 
warfare,  genocide,  colonial  oppression  and  economic 
devastation  into  a  legal  code,  creating  a  blueprint  to 
build a different, more just and peaceful world.
Perhaps never in the history of the United Nations 
has it been so important to recall that the human rights 
principles  embodied  in  the  International  Covenant  on 
Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant 
on  Economic  Social  and  Cultural  Rights  provide  the 
foundation  on  which  to  build  justice,  prosperity  and 
peace,  both  among  and  within  nations;  on  which  to 
build opportunities and ensure that every individual and 
every society can develop to their full potential; and on 
which to build justice and respect for diverse opinions, 
origins and faiths. At a time of deepening turmoil, with 
rising  antagonism  and  increasingly  callous  disregard 
for  the  human  suffering  generated  by  conflict  and 
deprivation,  we  can  take  stock  of  the  world  we  have 
built  as  a  result  of  these  binding  agreements,  their 
fundamental wisdom and humanity and their promise 
of a safer, fairer future. We can fulfil their pledge.
All the world’s people have a right to life and to be 
free of torture, slavery and discrimination. They have 
a right to freedom of religion, freedom of speech and 
freedom  of  assembly.  They  have  electoral  rights  and 
the right to a fair trial. They have a right to education, 
to an adequate standard of living, to fair wages and to 
safe  working  conditions.  They  have  a  right  to  decent 
housing,  to  the  highest  attainable  standard  of  health, 
and  to  adequate  protection  when  they  are  vulnerable 
by  virtue  of  age,  sickness  or  accident.  These  are  not 
empty  words,  but  rights.  Every  State  represented  in 
this Hall has sworn to be accountable to its people in 
ensuring these rights are respected. They are universal, 
indivisible,  interdependent  and  interrelated.  They  are 
interlocking,  and  the  societies  they  build  are  resilient 
and strong.
The Covenants have been a lifeline for millions of 
women, men and children over the past 50 years. They 
have helped to shape the constitutions of many nations 
represented in this Hall, and they are deeply grounded 
in their laws. They have taught us to turn away from 
discrimination, whether based on race, gender, ethnicity, 
religious  faith,  political  opinion,  sexual  orientation 
or  any  other  characteristic.  They  have  shown  us  how 
to  build  rule-of-law  institutions  that  are  impartial, 
transparent  and  accessible.  They  have  demonstrated 
16-33261
3/10
A/71/PV.30 
19/10/2016
that policy can be securely anchored in the expressed 
will of the people when there is greater freedom.
The  Covenants  continue  to  bear  fruit.  The  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change both draw deeply from 
their power — the drive to end discrimination on any 
grounds  and  to  build  governance  that  is  grounded  in 
civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. 
This  structure  of  law  and  principle  is  our  most 
precious inheritance from past generations, and it is the 
most  valuable  legacy  we  can  pass  on  to  our  children. 
Dag Hammarskjóld said: 
“To  build  for  man  a  world  without  fear,  we  must 
be without fear. To build a world of justice, we must be 
just.” 
He also said:
“The  pursuit  of  peace  and  progress,  with  its 
trials and its errors, its successes and its setbacks, 
can never be relaxed and never abandoned.”
Will  it  be  our  generation  that  breaks  away  from 
the human rights principles drawn up to save the world 
from the horror of the past? Will it be we who set off 
that return to injustice, hate, war, imperialism and the 
exploitive  and  oppressive  exercise  of  naked  power? 
In  a  tide  of  hatred  and  divisiveness,  deep  and  vital 
principles  may  be  swept  away  unheeded.  The  world’s 
States cannot durably address poverty, climate change, 
migration,  conflicts  or  terrorism  without  effective 
international  cooperation  in  a  system  that  upholds 
human  dignity  and  equality.  There  will  be  no  peace, 
development, safety or future if we ignore the rights of 
the people — all the world’s people.
We  cannot  know  what  crises  the  next  50  years 
will  bring.  But  when  institutions  do  not  protect  the 
people or guard against injustice, or when they fail to 
share  common  resources  equitably  and  safeguard  the 
people’s  rights,  social  cohesion  is  shattered  and  the 
risk of division and violence is high. States can set our 
shared  planet  on  a  course  of  greater  inclusion,  more 
sustained prosperity and more justice, dignity, freedom 
and peace. States can embrace the voices of the people 
rather than cutting short that most precious resource.
The  Covenants,  through  the  excellent  work  of 
the  Human  Rights  Committee  and  the  Committee  on 
Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Rights,  continue  to 
guide States and assist individuals in seeking remedies 
for  violations.  In  today’s  troubled  global  context, 
the  treaty  body  system  is  sorely  needed.  I  encourage 
the  Assembly  to  act  on  the  recommendations  of  the 
Secretary-General in the report before us (A/71/118) in 
order to ensure that the treaty bodies can provide the 
most effective support possible. 
Human  rights  offer  States  a  path  towards  greater 
stability,  not  less.  They  ensure  that  disputes  can  be 
peacefully  resolved,  and  they  can  build  confidence, 
loyalty and thriving political and economic institutions. 
The  most  effective  way  to  create  societies  that  are 
cohesive  and  resilient  is  to  build  justice,  dignity, 
equality and development, in a system that protects the 
full human rights of every individual.
The  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  Covenants  must 
be  an  occasion  to  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the 
International Bill of Human Rights, the great tripod of 
principle  and  commitment  that  is  formed  by  the  two 
Covenants  and  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights. Those texts are the bedrock of sound governance 
and in them lives the world’s hope for peace.
The  President:  In  accordance  with  the  decision 
just  taken,  I  now  call  on  the  Chair  of  the  Human 
Rights Committee.
Mr.  Salvioli 
(Human  Rights  Committee) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  I  would  like  to  commend  you, 
Mr.  President,  and  the  General  Assembly  for  the 
decision  to  commemorate  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 
and  the  International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social 
and Cultural Rights. I would also like to warmly thank 
the  Deputy  Secretary-General,  my  friend  the  United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and my 
colleague Mr. Waleed Sadi, Chair of the Committee on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.
Today’s commemoration of the anniversary of the 
two International Covenants on Human Rights is a very 
significant  moment  in  history.  Half  a  century  ago,  in 
a moving meeting in this very Hall, we witnessed the 
adoption  of  both  instruments  and  the  first  Optional 
Protocol  to  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and 
Political  Rights.  The  then  President  of  the  General 
Assembly, in 1966, said with great clarity that universal 
respect for human rights is inseparable from the idea of 
world peace, that therefore the steps taken in the field 
of human rights must be made effective and that States 
should  participate  in  the  new  Covenants  universally 
and without reservations (see A/PV.1496). At the same 
4/10 
16-33261
19/10/2016 
A/71/PV.30
meeting  the  then  Secretary-General  stressed  the  fact 
that the two Covenants were approved unanimously, in 
a demonstration of the political maturity and positive 
leadership that existed at the time.
Fifty years have passed since then. As of today, 168 
States have ratified the International Covenant on Civil 
and Political Rights; 115 have ratified its first Optional 
Protocol, empowering the Human Rights Committee to 
receive, process and resolve individual communications; 
and  81  have  ratified  its  second  Optional  Protocol, 
on  the  abolition  of  the  death  penalty.  Those  numbers 
are  evidence  of  our  progress  and  of  States’  growing 
willingnes to commit to civil and political rights.
Since 1977, the Human Rights Committee has been 
complying  with  its  task  of  interpreting  and  applying 
the Covenant. Over those four decades, it has made a 
significant  contribution  to  the  case  law  on  civil  and 
political  rights,  thereby  promoting  the  development 
of  international  human  rights  law  to  the  benefit  of 
individuals.  By  the  process  of  reviewing  the  reports 
of  States,  the  Committee,  through  its  concluding 
observations, has carried out effective public scrutiny 
of legislation, policies and practices of the various State 
organs.
through 
its  examination  of 
The  Committee  also  interprets  and  applies  the 
Covenant 
individual 
communications.  To  date,  it  has  received  about  2,760 
complaints and considered more than 1,150. The quality 
of the Committee’s jurisprudence is recognized at every 
level and is taken into account by national, regional and 
international courts, including the International Court 
of Justice, which in its judgment in the Diallo case said 
that  great  weight  should  be  given  to  the  Committee’s 
interpretation  of 
the  Covenant.  Other  bodies  of 
independent  experts,  including  the  intergovernmental 
Human Rights Council, also use the documents that the 
Committee adopts to carry its work forward.
Throughout this period, we have been able to arrive 
at  best  practices  for  implementing  our  concluding 
observations and investigations, which have been greatly 
assisted by the Committee’s follow-up procedures, the 
work of national human rights institutions and of course 
by civil society organizations. But none of that would 
be possible if we could not depend on the political will 
of the States.
The  general  comments,  in  which  the  Committee 
the  Covenant’s  provisions,  documents 
interprets 
that  serve  as  a  useful  guide  for  States,  are  another 
important  achievement.  To  date,  we  have  adopted  35 
general comments, and we are drafting a new one on 
the right to life, with broad participation by States and 
non-governmental  organizations.  Those  achievements 
have been made possible by the excellent work that has 
been done by the women and men on the Committee, 
throughout  its  history  and  today,  with  expertise, 
commitment  and  outstanding  quality.  I  would  like  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  admiration  for 
them and to offer my sincere and heartfelt tribute and 
acknowledgement to my colleagues, past and present.
complex  world.  The 
There  are  great  challenges  ahead  of  us  in  an 
enormously 
International 
Covenants  and  the  Committees’  decisions  represent 
an  outstanding  road  map  to  a  better  future  for  our 
societies.  It  is  urgent  that  we  regain  those  values  of 
interdependence and indivisibility and end our biased 
approaches 
to  analysing  social,  civil,  economic, 
political and cultural rights. In our judicial acts we must 
reject artificial categories and leave behind nineteenth-
century principles. The guiding criteria for our actions 
should  be  a  people-centred  perspective  and  the  full 
wealth  of  international  human  rights  law.  There  is 
therefore no reason for not having universal ratification 
of the Covenants. States should become parties to them 
and their Protocols without delay or reservations.
States  should  submit  reports  on  time;  act  in 
good  faith  in  proceedings;  encourage  civil  society’s 
participation;  and  establish  internal  mechanisms  for 
quick  and  effective  compliance  with  the  concluding 
observations  and  expert  opinions  of 
the  Human 
Rights  Committee  and  the  Committee  on  Economic, 
Social  and  Cultural  Rights.  They  should  propose  the 
best-qualified  people  —  expert,  independent  and 
impartial — as candidates for the Committees. Those 
qualities, along with equitable geographical distribution 
and gender balance, are the only ones that should guide 
the election process. States should actively support the 
work of the Committees, in word and deed, defend their 
impartiality and functions and provide the secretariats 
with the resources they need to fulfil their mandates.
It  is  decided,  firm,  permanent  measures  such  as 
these, taken in every area, that are the best tribute to 
the International Covenants and to the people who had 
the  foresight  and  the  courage  to  formulate  and  adopt 
them.  Using  their  expertise,  the  Committees  must 
interpret and apply them with a view to achieving their 
universality,  interdependence  and  indivisibility,  while 
those here, the States Members of the United Nations, 
16-33261
5/10
A/71/PV.30 
19/10/2016
have  the  great  privilege  of  formulating  and  executing 
the public policy that can render them effective for the 
benefit of humankind.
The  President:  In  accordance  with  the  decision 
just taken, I now call on the Chair of the Committee on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.
Mr.  Sadi  (Committee  on  Economic,  Social  and 
Cultural  Rights):  We  are  assembled  here  today  to 
commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the adoption 
of  two  key  human  rights  covenants:  the  International 
Covenant  on  Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Rights 
and  its  twin,  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and 
Political Rights. I emphasize the word “twin” because I 
believe that ultimately they are inseparable.
The  narrative  of  the  adoption  of  the  two  basic 
human rights instruments shows beyond the shadow of 
a doubt — and we must not lose sight of the fact — that 
they  complement  one  another,  in  every  sense  of  the 
word,  and  that  they  were  delivered  in  order  to  give 
full expression to the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights of 1948. The Declaration did not deal separately 
with  the  two  dimensions  of  human  rights,  but  rather 
jointly, affirming that for all intents and purposes the 
two Covenants are indeed inseparable. A close friend 
of mine once said that they are more or less like the two 
wings of the same bird, which cannot fly without both. 
I hope we can all remember that example, simple and 
yet to the point. Who are we to challenge this  article 
of faith, which the Declaration embodied and espoused, 
that they are inseparable and indivisible?
We all now adhere faithfully to the proposition that 
human rights are interdependent and inseparable from 
one  another.  On  that  basis  alone,  the  two  Covenants, 
which  aim  to  address  civil  and  political  rights  in 
conjunction with economic, social and cultural rights, 
cannot  fulfil  their  mandates  separately  from  one 
another  for  much  longer.  Last  summer,  we  made  a 
modest move, with the two Committees meeting jointly, 
and I hope that modest move will be repeated vis-à-vis 
the other treaty bodies, because if we are faithful to the 
proposition that human rights are indivisible, we must 
pursue  them  in  a  joint,  coordinated  and  cooperative 
manner.  I  am  afraid  that  we  are  not  yet  on  that  road, 
but in the modest move we made last summer, our two 
Committees  held  hands  and  tried  to  see  where  they 
could have better coordination and cooperation.
We  in  the  Committee  on  Economic,  Social  and 
Cultural  Rights  have  repeatedly  seen  that  the  sets  of 
rights that we are trying to promote and protect cannot 
be fully realized without taking into consideration their 
civil and political contexts. And I submit that that goes 
for every treaty body we have. They all have the same 
need for more coordination and cooperation. We have 
made a modest move in that direction, but I think we 
should  do  it  faster  and  more  boldly  in  the  future.  By 
way  of  example,  one  cannot  enjoy  the  rights  to  food, 
work,  housing,  education,  health  and  culture  if  one’s 
political  and  civil  environment  is  not  adequate  and 
conducive to their enjoyment. The denial of one set of 
rights will frustrate and impede the realization of and 
respect for the other sets.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  invite  all 
countries  that  have  not  yet  ratified  the  International 
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights to 
do so. We have 164 member States. I would like to make 
a special appeal to the United States, which has almost 
alone stayed out of this club, and which I fear sends the 
wrong signal. I hope that through this forum, perhaps, 
the United States can be invited in. I hope the United 
States delegation is here this morning and can make an 
effort to join the rest of the international community in 
becoming a party to our treaty.
I  hope  today’s  commemoration  will  serve  our 
ultimate  purpose.  My  single  and  most  important 
message  is  to  urge  that  we  have  greater  collaboration 
and  cooperation  between 
treaty  bodies, 
because  otherwise  I  believe  we  will  be  going  in  the 
wrong direction.
two 
the 
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 
Kuwait, who will speak on behalf of the Group of Asia-
Pacific States.
Mr.  Alotaibi  (Kuwait):  I  am  honoured  to  speak 
today on behalf of the Group of Asia-Pacific States at 
our  commemoration  of  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  of  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and 
Political  Rights  and  the  International  Covenant  on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, as called for in 
General Assembly resolution 70/144 under the agenda 
item  entitled  “Promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights”.  Both  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil 
and  Political  Rights  and  the  International  Covenant 
on  Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Rights  are  just  as 
significant today as they were at their adoption in 1966.
The Covenants’ foundation is the recognition that 
every  human  being  has  human  rights,  and  that  it  is 
the  obligation  of  each  State  to  promote  and  preserve 
6/10 
16-33261
19/10/2016 
A/71/PV.30
those  rights.  Since  their  inception  50  years  ago,  both 
Covenants have continued to reflect ideals and goals that 
we  have  never  ceased  to  desire  to  achieve.  Moreover, 
given the continued conflicts going on around the world, 
resulting in a staggering total of 65.3 million refugees 
and  internally  displaced  persons,  we  are  currently 
facing  the  most  challenging  of  struggles.  Never  has 
the desire for peace and security been so evident. All 
States are encouraged to implement the goals that both 
of these Covenants embody and to continue to aspire to 
a world free of fearand violence.
The fiftieth anniversary serves as a reminder of the 
obligation to protect and defend each individual’s basic 
human  rights  and  to  commit  to  taking  administrative 
and  legislative  measures  to  preserve  those  rights,  as 
stated in the treaties, thereby reinforcing the aspirations 
of each and every human being to live in dignity, peace 
and security, as we all rightly deserve.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Georgia, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Eastern European States.
Mr. Imnadze (Georgia): It is my honour to take the 
floor on behalf of the Group of Eastern European States 
to join our voices in celebration of the fiftieth anniversary 
of the adoption of the International Covenant on Civil 
and  Political  Rights  and  the  International  Covenant 
on  Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Rights.  These  two 
Covenants, together with the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights, form a major cornerstone of international 
human  rights  law.  We  welcome  the  holding  of  this 
timely meeting to once again underscore the universal, 
inalienable, interdependent and indivisible nature of all 
human rights set forth in the Covenants.
The Eastern European States reaffirm their strong 
commitment  to  the  Covenants,  which  represent  an 
essential tool for the fulfilment of the human rights and 
fundamental freedoms of all individuals. We recall the 
primary responsibility of States to promote and protect 
human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Fifty  years  ago,  the  Covenants  set  out  the  civil, 
cultural, economic, political and social rights that are 
the  birthright  of  all  human  beings.  During  the  past 
five  decades,  the  world  has  dramatically  changed. 
The increasing threats and pressing challenges facing 
us  today  —  including  the  spread  of  international 
terrorism,  racial,  ethnic  and  religious  intolerance  and 
the  migration  crisis  —  once  again  underline  the  role 
of the international community in ensuring the better 
protection of human rights.
Today,  as  we  reflect  on  the  significant  progress 
achieved  since  the  adoption  of  the  Covenants,  we 
have  to  note  that  challenges  remain  in  securing 
basic  human  rights  and  freedoms  for  all.  Millions  of 
people,  especially  children,  women  and  persons  with 
disabilities,  continue  to  suffer  from  various  forms 
of  violence,  discrimination,  exploitation  and  abuse. 
Thousands  still  suffer  from  grave  human  rights 
violations during conflicts, and in that regard, we use 
this  opportunity  to  underline  the  importance  of  the 
work of the relevant treaty bodies, such as the Human 
Rights  Committee  and  the  Committee  on  Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights.
We strongly believe that every individual deserves 
to enjoy both sets of rights covered by the Covenants 
without  any  discrimination  on  any  ground,  such  as 
race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other 
opinion,  national  or  social  origin,  property,  birth  or 
other  status.  Special  attention  should  be  paid  to  the 
most vulnerable groups.
We  share  the  view  that  the  fundamental  human 
rights  enshrined  in  the  Covenants  should  be  applied 
equally  to  everyone.  We  need  to  take  more  effective 
steps  to  protect  the  human  rights  of  all,  and  this 
landmark occasion gives us an opportunity to call on all 
States to ensure the universal ratification and effective 
implementation of both Covenants. In that regard, we 
appreciate  the  year-long  “Our  Rights.  Our  Freedoms. 
Always” campaign of the Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights to promote and 
raise awareness on both Covenants.
As  we  embark  on  the  ambitious  15-year  journey 
towards  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development, it is important that we strive 
to  achieve  its  goals  as  a  major  factor  contributing  to 
the  promotion  of  human  rights,  including  through 
the 
implementation  of  States’  obligations  under 
the Covenants.
On behalf of the Eastern European States, we would 
like to once again reiterate our strong commitment to 
ensuring the full protection of all human rights.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Chile, who will speak on behalf of the 
Latin American and Caribbean States.
16-33261
7/10
A/71/PV.30 
19/10/2016
Mr.  Barros  Melet  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The  Group  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
(GRULAC),  on  whose  behalf  I  am  speaking,  is 
particularly  pleased  to  participate  in  this  fiftieth-
anniversary  commemoration  of  the  adoption  by  the 
General  Assembly  of 
the  International  Covenant 
on  Civil  and  Political  Rights  and  the  International 
Covenant  on  Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Rights. 
Those  instruments,  together  with  the  1948  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  other  international 
human rights treaties, set out the essential foundation 
of the rights and fundamental freedoms to be enjoyed 
by all human beings simply because they are human.
The  International  Covenants  on  Human  Rights 
have achieved global significance and relevance. They 
reinforce the universal, indivisible, interdependent and 
mutually supportive nature of all human rights. Respect 
for  and  the  promotion  and  implementation  of  those 
instruments  is  a  primary  duty  of  every  State  party, 
and a source of legitimate interest to the international 
community. Their implementation requires and benefits 
from  a  cooperative  approach  that  can  be  fostered 
by  universal  and  regional  human  rights  systems, 
particularly as regards building and strengthening the 
capacities needed to make progress in their compliance.
Human  rights  are  recognized  as  one  of  the  three 
basic  pillars  of  the  United  Nations  and  are  closely 
and  directly  linked  to  development  and  international 
peace  and  security.  There  are  all  too  many  examples 
demonstrating that a serious and systematic pattern of 
human  rights  violations  can  undermine  international 
peace  and  stability,  and  that  if  we  do  not  ensure  and 
defend the dignity of all persons without exception in 
the face of violence, intolerance and exclusion, we will 
undermine  efforts  to  effectively  guarantee  the  rights 
enshrined in the International Human Rights Covenants 
and the work of the organs responsible for monitoring 
their implementation.
The  International  Covenants  on  Human  Rights 
respond  to  the  conviction  that  peace  is  very  difficult 
to  maintain  or  achieve  without  a  decent  standard  of 
living  for  all  commensurate  with  human  dignity.  We 
recognize that through those international instruments 
it is of the utmost importance to protect the right to life 
and  personal  integrity,  promote  individual  economic 
security,  and  ensure  that  everyone  can  enjoy  all  their 
fundamental  freedoms  as  elements  of  paramount 
importance  to  personal  and  social  development.  This 
means  that  poverty,  inequality  and  inadequate  access 
to food, health, education, housing and justice deprive 
people of the opportunity to develop their full potential.
In that conviction, the countries of Latin American 
and  Caribbean  place  equal  emphasis  on  the  critical 
importance of all civil, political, economic, social and 
cultural  human  rights,  and  on  the  concomittant  duty 
of  all  States  to  respect  and  promote  them,  allocating 
the resources necessary to build peaceful and inclusive 
societies  that  ensure  prosperity  and  peace.  In  that 
regard, we also emphasize that the right to development 
is an integral part of the human rights corpus, for which 
our Organization must work tirelessly.
That  vision  is  reflected  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  adopted  last  year,  which 
incorporates  a  human  rights-based  approach  and 
recognizes the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
and  international  human  rights  treaties  as  a  cross-
cutting  element  essential 
to  balanced  attainment 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  which  were 
established in order to leave no one behind.
Now that our world is strongly interconnected as a 
result of development, progress, science, transportation 
and  information  technologies,  States  must  work  with 
all  relevant  stakeholders  —  including  civil  society 
organizations,  businesses,  academia  and  national 
human  rights  institutions,  among  others  —  in  order 
to  build  a  better  response  to  common  human  rights 
challenges.  A  shared  commitment  to  enhancing  these 
universally recognized human rights for all is therefore 
essential.
In  the  same  vein,  one  priority  for  GRULAC 
is  and  will  continue  to  be  to  provide  assistance 
and  implement  measures  to  effectively  protect  and 
promote  the  human  rights  of  vulnerable  persons  and 
groups so as to fully realize all rights enshrined in the 
International Covenants and other international human 
rights  instruments,  paying  particular  attention  to  the 
empowerment  of  women  and  girls,  the  promotion  of 
gender  equality,  and  the  rights  of  children,  persons 
with disabilities, indigenous peoples, people of African 
descent,  migrants  and  the  elderly,  among  others,  in 
order to ensure that all human beings can live in a region 
and a world with greater equality, justice, security and 
well-being. 
Despite  the  magnitude  of  the  challenges  that 
we  face  on  this  anniversary,  the  countries  of  Latin 
America and the Caribbean renew their determination 
8/10 
16-33261
19/10/2016 
A/71/PV.30
and  their  profound  commitment  as  they  pursue  this 
noble endeavour.
The President: I give the floor to the representative 
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
Western European and other States.
Mr. Wilson (United Kingdom): I have the honour 
to speak on behalf of the Group of Western European 
and other States. 
This year marks the fiftieth anniversary since the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and 
the  International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social  and 
Cultural Rights were conceived and 40 years since they 
entered  into  force.  In  conjunction  with  the  Universal 
Declaration  on  Human  Rights,  the  Covenants  marked 
a turning point in the formal recognition by States of 
the rights of the individual, that every person is born 
with equal rights — civil, political, cultural, economic 
and social — and should be able to exercise those rights 
without fear of persecution or oppression. 
The  anniversary  of  the  Covenants  is  a  time  to 
take stock of the global human rights situation and to 
join  our  common  efforts.  In  too  many  States  human 
rights are under threat, and the fight against terrorism 
or  cultural  relativism  is  used  to  justify  human  rights 
violations.  In  that  context,  our  responsibility  is  to 
defend  the  universality  of  human  rights  enshrined  in 
the international treaties that we uphold.
The significance of the Covenants is self evident. 
Today, the most unstable and insecure regions around the 
globe are those where the principles enshrined in both 
the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 
and  the  International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social 
and  Cultural  Rights  are  either  neglected  or  opposed, 
where inequality and prejudice are most prominent and 
where oppression is rife. People expect accountability 
from  their  Governments  and  freedom  and  dignity 
for  themselves.  We  must  work  together  —  national 
Governments,  international  organizations  and  civil 
society — to protect and strengthen human rights. Let 
us also consider how we work with Governments that 
are yet to sign or ratify the Covenants.
The  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political 
Rights and the the International Covenant on Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights remain as important today as 
when they were adopted. We are committed to working 
to  ensure  that  those  rights  continue  to  be  upheld  and 
that  we  hold  ourselves  and  each  other  to  the  highest 
possible standard. That can be achieved only through 
deeper cooperation with one another, with civil society 
and  with  the  accountability  mechanisms  enshrined  in 
international treaties. Fulfilling the rights set out in the 
Covenants is too important to be left to chance.
The President: I give the floor to the representative 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  who  will  speak  on 
behalf of the host country.
Ms.  Mendelson  (United  States  of  America):  As 
has been noted by many, human rights is a core pillar 
of the Charter of the United Nations. In the Preamble 
of  the  Charter,  the  Member  States  “reaffirm  faith  in 
fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of 
the human person and in the equal rights of men and 
women and of nations large and small”.
The  Universal  Declaration  and  the  International 
Covenants  on  Human  Rights  are  central  to  achieving 
that  mission.  Upon  the  adoption  of  the  Universal 
Declaration  on  Human  Rights,  Eleanor  Roosevelt 
remarked,
“As  we  here  bring  to  fruition  our  labours  on 
this Declaration of Human Rights, we must at the 
same  time  rededicate  ourselves  to  the  unfinished 
task which lies before us.”
Over  the  next  several  years,  the  international 
community  then  worked  together  to  negotiate  the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights 
and  the  International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social 
and  Cultural  Rights,  work  which  was  concluded  in 
1966.  It  is  the  reason  why  we  celebrate  today.  In 
signing the International Covenants in 1977, President 
Carter  observed  that  when  a  Government  ratifies  the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights, 
it  acknowledges  “explicitly 
there  are  sharp 
limits on its own powers over the lives of its people”. 
The  International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social 
and  Cultural  Rights,  meanwhile,  recognizes 
that 
Governments are the instruments and servants of their 
people. 
that 
Both these Covenants express values in which the 
people of my country have believed for a long time. As 
we mark this occasion today, the United States supports 
the goals of the International Covenant on Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights and strongly reaffirms our 
commitment  to  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil 
and  Political  Rights.  The  United  States  reiterates  its 
16-33261
9/10
A/71/PV.30 
19/10/2016
commitment to human rights in its work in the General 
Assembly,  within  the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
across the many other bodies promoting the protection 
of human rights within the United Nations.
A  decade  ago,  we  were  one  of  the  strongest 
supporters  of  the  universal  periodic  review  process, 
and we remain fully committed to its vital function of 
guiding Member States to improve respect for human 
rights  domestically.  We  see  that  process  as  extremely 
valuable,  given  its  universality.  It  reviews  the  human 
rights situation in every country, including our own.
The  United  States  developed  six  working  groups 
tasked  to  review  and  consult  with  civil  society  on  a 
range of human rights issues — including civil rights 
and  non-discrimination;  criminal  justice;  economic, 
social  and  cultural  rights;  indigenous  issues  and  the 
environment;  national  security;  immigration,  labour, 
migrants,  trafficking,  and  children  —  and  domestic 
implementation and international mechanisms.
Given  that  the  global  trend  of  closing  space  for 
civil  society  threatens  the  very  rights  created  by  the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights, 
I  want  to  highlight  the  important  roles  of  the  Special 
Rapporteurs  on  the  rights  to  freedom  of  peaceful 
assembly and association, freedom of expression and the 
situation of human rights defenders. All three mandates 
are crucial to protecting and promoting the international 
human  rights  obligations  in  the  Covenant.  We  are 
committed  to  the  implementation  of  our  obligations 
under the International Covenant on Civil and Political 
Rights  because  it  helps  create  the  environment  most 
conducive for steady progress toward the achievement 
of the goals of the International Covenant on Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights.
Experience reveals that when people can exercise 
fundamental 
expression,  peaceful 
assembly,  association,  and  religion  or  belief  without 
fear; when they have access to a wide range of ideas, 
freedoms  of 
information  and  opinion;  when  they  can  actively 
participate in the political life of their country and press 
for reform without reprisal; when laws are instruments 
of justice and not tools of repression; when journalists 
and  advocates  can  expose  abuse  and  corruption;  and 
when domestic safeguards protect minorities from the 
potential tyranny of a Government that fails to guarantee 
free expression, to respect the will of its people, and to 
protect the interests of all individuals equally without 
distinction, then societies become more resilient, more 
inclusive and more tolerant, innovation spurs economic 
growth  and  prosperity,  and  political  change  tends  to 
be peaceful.
Today,  as  we  commemorate  the  Covenants  and 
the hard work of all of those who contributed to their 
creation,  we  remind  ourselves  about  the  current  state 
of  the  world  and  the  threats  to  the  International  Bill 
of  Rights.  We  must  work  together  to  ensure  that  the 
human rights treaty bodies, the Human Rights Council 
and other human rights mechanisms within the United 
Nations  are  effective  and  enable  respect  for  human 
rights worldwide.
Finally, the United States reaffirms its commitment 
to  advancing  and  supporting  human  rights  in  the 
United  Nations  system  and  advancing  human  rights, 
fundamental  freedoms,  human  dignity  and  prosperity 
internationally and in the United States.
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
the  commemorative  meeting  to  mark  the  fiftieth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  International 
Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights  and  the 
International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social  and 
Cultural Rights.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 
68.
The meeting rose at 11.10 a.m.
10/10 
16-33261
