United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
8th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 20 September 2016, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.8
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Agenda item 109
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/71/1)
The  President:  In  accordance  with  the  decision 
taken at its 2nd plenary meeting, on 16 September 2016, 
the  General  Assembly  will  hear  a  presentation  by  the 
Secretary-General of his annual report on the work of 
the Organization (A/71/1), under agenda item 109.
I  stand  before 
I give the floor to the Secretary-General.
The  Secretary-General: 
the 
Assembly  today  with  gratitude  for  the  support  I  have 
been given across the decade during which I have had 
the  privilege  to  serve  the  great  Organization  of  the 
United Nations. In taking the oath of office in December 
2006, I pledged to work with the Organization for “we, 
the  peoples”.  With  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
as  our  guide  and  the  dedication  of  the  staff,  we  have 
achieved much together.
I also stand here in deep concern. Gulfs of mistrust 
divide  citizens  from  their  leaders.  Extremists  push 
people into camps of “us” and “them”. The Earth assails 
us  with  rising  seas,  record  heat  and  extreme  storms. 
And danger defines the days of many. One hundred and 
thirty million people need lifesaving assistance; tens of 
millions of them are children and young people, so that 
our next generation already at risk.
Yet after 10 years in office, I am more convinced 
than ever that we have the power to end war, poverty 
and persecution. We have the means to prevent conflict. 
We have the potential to close the gap between rich and 
poor,  and  to  make  rights  a  reality  in  people’s  lives. 
With  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  we  have  a 
manifesto for a better future. With the Paris Agreement 
on  climate  change,  we  are  tackling  the  defining 
challenge of our time. We have no time to lose. I urge all 
the leaders here to bring the Paris Agreement into force 
before the end of this year. We need just 26 countries 
more, representing just 15 per cent of greenhouse-gas 
emissions. I ask all those here to help lead us to a world 
of low-carbon growth, increased resilience and greater 
opportunity and well-being for our children.
Those great gains are threatened by grave security 
threats.  Armed  conflicts  have  grown  more  protracted 
and complex. Governance failures have pushed societies 
past  the  brink.  Radicalization  has  threatened  social 
cohesion,  which  is  precisely  the  response  that  violent 
extremists seek and welcome. The tragic consequences 
are  on  brutal  display  from  Yemen  to  Libya  and  Iraq, 
from Afghanistan to the Sahel and the Lake Chad basin.
In  today’s  world,  the  conflict  in  Syria  is  taking 
the  greatest  number  of  lives  and  sowing  the  widest 
instability. There is no military solution. Many groups 
have killed many innocents, but none more so than the 
Government of Syria, which continues to barrel-bomb 
neighbourhoods  and  systematically  torture  thousands 
of  detainees.  Powerful  patrons  who  keep  feeding  the 
war  machine  also  have  blood  on  their  hands.  Present 
in this Hall today are representatives of Governments 
that  have  ignored,  facilitated,  funded,  participated  in 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29296 (E)
*1629296*
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
and even planned and carried out atrocities inflicted on 
Syrian civilians by every side in the Syria conflict.
Just  when  we  think  it  cannot  get  any  worse,  the 
bar  of  depravity  sinks  lower.  Yesterday’s  sickening, 
savage  and  apparently  deliberate  attack  on  a  United 
Nations-Syrian  Arab  Red  Crescent  aid  convoy  is  the 
latest  example.  The  United  Nations  has  been  forced 
to suspend aid convoys as a result of that outrage. The 
humanitarians  delivering  life-saving  aid  were  heroes. 
Those who bombed them were cowards. Accountability 
for  crimes  such  as  these  is  essential.  I  appeal  to  all 
those with influence to end the fighting and get talks 
started. A political transition is long overdue. After so 
much violence and misrule, the future of Syria should 
not rest on the fate of a single man.
One  year  ago,  Palestine  proudly  raised  its  flag  at 
United  Nations  Headquarters,  yet  the  prospects  for  a 
two-State solution are decreasing every day, while the 
occupation grinds into its fiftieth year. As a friend of 
both  the  Israeli  and  Palestinian  peoples,  it  pains  me 
that the past decade has been 10 years lost to peace; 10 
years lost to illegal settlement expansion; 10 years lost 
to  intra-Palestinian  divide,  growing  polarization  and 
hopelessness. This is madness. Replacing a two-State 
solution with a one-State construct would spell doom, 
denying Palestinians their freedom and rightful future, 
and pushing Israel further from its vision of a Jewish 
democracy towards greater global isolation.
On  the  Korean  peninsula,  the  fifth  nuclear  test 
conducted  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea has again threatened regional and international 
security. Meanwhile, their people’s suffering and plight 
are  worsening.  I  urge  the  leaders  of  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea to change course and fulfil 
their  obligations  —  to  their  own  people  and  to  the 
family of nations.
In  Ukraine,  the  violence  has  caused  an  internal 
upheaval, renewed tensions across Europe and rekindled 
geopolitical  rivalries.  In  South  Sudan,  leaders  have 
also betrayed their people. Indeed, in too many places, 
we  see  leaders  rewriting  constitutions,  manipulating 
elections  and  taking  other  desperate  steps  to  cling  to 
power. Those who hold office must understand that it 
is a privilege entrusted to them by the people, not their 
personal property. My message to all is clear — serve 
the  people,  do  not  subvert  democracy,  do  not  pilfer 
the  country’s  resources  and  do  not  imprison  and 
torture critics.
Yesterday we made great progress in helping people 
find a haven from conflict and tyranny. The New York 
Declaration for Refugees and Migrants (resolution 71/1) 
points the way toward saving lives and protecting the 
rights  of  millions  of  people.  We  all  must  meet  those 
promises.  All  too  often,  refugees  and  migrants  face 
hatred.  Muslims  in  particular  are  being  targeted  by 
stereotyping and suspicion that evoke haunting echoes 
of the dark past. I urge political leaders and candidates to 
not engage in the cynical and dangerous political math 
of adding votes by dividing people and multiplying fear. 
The world must stand up against lies and distortions of 
truth, and reject all forms of discrimination.
We  must  also  address  the  factors  that  compel 
people  to  move.  That  means  investing  in  conflict 
prevention and engaging in patient diplomacy. As the 
demand  for  peacekeeping  rises,  we  must  continue 
strengthening peace operations to help countries secure 
and maintain peace. I am encouraged that the General 
Assembly  has  endorsed  the  Plan  of  Action  to  Prevent 
Violent Extremism, which can help us tackle the drivers 
of conflict.
In Myanmar, the transition has entered a promising 
new  phase.  In  Sri  Lanka,  post-war  healing  efforts 
have  deepened.  In  both  countries,  true  reconciliation 
rests  on  ensuring  that  all  communities,  minorities 
and  majorities  alike,  are  included  in  building  a  real 
union. Next Monday, I will travel to Colombia for the 
signing of a peace agreement to end one of the world’s 
longest-running  armed  conflicts.  The  United  Nations 
will  support  the  Colombian  people  every  step  of  the 
way. There is also encouraging momentum towards an 
agreement on Cyprus. Let us all support the progress 
and solutions that may now be at hand.
(spoke in French)
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  regrets  on 
two  matters  that  have  tarnished  the  Organization’s 
reputation, and far worse, have traumatized the many 
populations we serve.
First of all, the despicable acts of exploitation and 
sexual  violence  committed  by  some  peacekeeping 
soldiers  and  other  United  Nations  personnel  have 
compounded the suffering of people already embroiled 
in armed conflict and have undermined the efforts of 
so  many  other  United  Nations  agencies  worldwide. 
Those who would protect must never become predators. 
Member States and the Secretariat must redouble their 
2/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
efforts to enforce and bolster the Organization’s zero-
tolerance policy.
other atrocity crimes. Civil society is essential to all of 
these efforts.
Secondly,  Haiti  has  been  sorely  tested.  Shortly 
after  a  devastating  earthquake,  the  country  was  hit 
by  a  cholera  outbreak.  I  am  deeply  saddened  by  the 
terrible  suffering  of  the  Haitian  people  affected  by 
cholera. We must devise a new approach to ease their 
plight  and  improve  their  living  conditions.  We  are 
firmly  resolved  to  take  sustainable  action  to  shoulder 
that  moral  responsibility.  We  are  currently  drafting  a 
set of measures to assist those most directly affected, 
and we are intensifying efforts to set up robust water, 
sanitation and health systems, which is the best long-
term  protection  against  disease.  We  cannot  succeed 
without 
financial 
support  of  Member  States.  Details  on  that  strategy 
are forthcoming. Let us pool our efforts to honour our 
obligations to the Haitian people.
(spoke in English)
the  unwavering  political  and 
Allow me to briefly touch on a few other areas that 
I hope will long remain priorities of the United Nations.
I am proud that UN-Women came to life during my 
tenure.  It  is  now  our  established  champion  of  gender 
equality  and  empowerment,  seeking  to  bring  about  a 
50-50 planet. I have appointed more women to senior 
positions at the United Nations than ever before — and 
I am proud to call myself a feminist. Women hold up 
half the sky and are essential to meeting all our goals. 
I  have  always  said  that  the  least  utilized  resource  in 
the world is the potential of women. So we must do far 
more  to  end  deep-seated  discrimination  and  chronic 
violence against women, to advance their participation 
in  decision-making  and  to  ensure  that  every  girl  gets 
the start in life she deserves.
I  have  been  a  proud  defender  of  the  rights  of  all 
people,  regardless  of  ethnicity,  religion  or  sexual 
orientation.  Our  human  rights  machinery,  along  with 
the Human Rights Up Front initiative, is placing human 
rights  at  the  centre.  Human  rights  are  the  pillars  of 
society  and  the  antidotes  to  violent  extremism  and 
civic despair.
We have deepened support for the responsibility to 
protect. We have made inroads against the death penalty. 
Landmark  convictions  by  the  International  Criminal 
Court and other bodies have advanced accountability, 
but we still must do far more to prevent genocide and 
I ask all present to join me today in saying “yes” to 
greater space for civil society and independent media, 
and “no” to cracking down on the freedoms of assembly 
and expression.
(spoke in French)
In the past 10 years, we have made great progress in 
education and health. Polio has almost been eradicated, 
more women survive childbirth, and more children are 
in  school  and  live  longer,  better  lives.  Our  collective 
response  to  the  Ebola  outbreak  has  prepared  us  for 
future  health  emergencies.  The  work  of  the  Global 
Health  Crises  Task  Force  reminds  us  that  vigilance 
must start well before pandemics reach the front pages. 
The  control  of  deadly  weapons  advanced  thanks  to 
the Convention on Cluster Munitions, the Arms Trade 
Treaty and effective action against chemical weapons.
We need to build on this momentum to move closer 
to  the  goal  of  eliminating  nuclear  weapons  once  and 
for all. The World Humanitarian Summit strengthened 
relief  efforts  to  focus  on  prevention  and  resilience  as 
well as on reducing need. We are tapping the energies 
of young people as never before, including thanks to the 
work of my first-ever United Nations Envoy on Youth as 
well as the new Special Envoy on Youth Employment. 
Partnerships  with  the  private  sector  have  multiplied. 
We have pushed for responsible practices that harness 
the best of business for society and the world, and we 
have made important strides in adapting and reforming 
the United Nations for the twenty-first century.
(spoke in English)
Continued  progress  will  require  new  heights  of 
solidarity. Sometimes we are our own worst enemies. 
Member  States  have  still  not  agreed  on  a  formula 
for  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  which  poses  a 
continuing risk to its effectiveness and legitimacy.
In the same spirit, I want to put on the table today 
a  major  and  much-needed  reform  for  fairness  and 
effectiveness  in  the  United  Nations.  Far  too  often,  I 
have  seen  widely  supported  proposals  blocked,  in  the 
name  of  consensus,  by  a  few  or  sometimes  even  just 
one country. We see this being done by large and small 
countries alike. Time and again, I have seen essential 
action and good ideas blocked in the Security Council, 
blocked in the General Assembly, blocked in the budget 
process,  blocked  in  the  Conference  on  Disarmament 
16-29296
3/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
and other bodies. We see this being done by large and 
small countries alike.
Is it fair, in this complicated twenty-first century, 
for any one country, or a few countries, to yield such 
disproportionate power and hold the world hostage on 
so many important issues?
Consensus should not be confused with unanimity. 
The global public is right to ask whether this is how an 
Organization in which we have invested so much hope 
and  so  many  aspirations  should  function.  I  propose, 
Mr. President, that you explore, with my successor, the 
establishment  of  a  high-level  panel  to  find  practical 
solutions  that  will  improve  decision-making  at  the 
United Nations.
States  must  also  respect  the  independence  of  the 
Secretariat,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter.  When 
our reports say what needs to be said, Member States 
should  not  try  to  rewrite  history.  When  our  human 
rights personnel act on behalf of the most vulnerable, 
Member States should not block their path. When our 
humanitarian workers need to reach populations under 
siege, Member States should remove all obstacles. And 
when  our  envoys  and  personnel  raise  difficult  issues, 
Member States should not ostracize them or threaten to 
banish them from the country. We must all be open and 
accountable to the people we serve.
There  is  one  last  measure  of  the  change  that  has 
defined the past decade.
It  is  hard  to  believe,  but  when  I  took  office,  a 
smartphone like this had not even been introduced to 
the world. Today it is a lifeline and perhaps, at times, 
the bane of our existence. It is an indispensable part of 
our lives. Our phones and social media have connected 
the  world  in  ways  that  were  unimaginable  when  I 
took office. Yes, they have been abused by extremists 
and  hate  groups.  But  they  have  also  created  a  world 
of  new  communities  and  opportunities.  For  me,  it  is 
all  a  reminder  of  the  power  of  individuals  to  change 
the world.
After  all,  people  power  helped  make  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) 
the  most  inclusive  development  process  of  our  time. 
People  power  mobilized  millions  to  push  leaders  to 
take climate action. People power is what I have seen 
in  every  corner  of  the  world  this  past  decade:  people 
like  Rebecca  Johnson,  a  nurse  I  met  in  Sierra  Leone 
who  contracted  Ebola,  recovered  and  then  risked  her 
life  again  to  save  her  community;  and  people  like 
Yusra Mardini, the Syrian teen swimmer who pushed 
her damaged refugee boat to safety and then went on to 
compete in the Olympic Games; and, of course, people 
like young Malala Yousafzai, who came to the United 
Nations and showed us all how one book, one pen and 
one person could make a difference.
A perfect world may be on the far horizon, but the 
route  to  a  better  world,  a  safer  world,  a  more  trusted 
world, is in each and every one of us. Ten years on, I 
know that, working together, working united, we can get 
there. I count on members’ leadership and commitment.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I thank the Secretary-General for his statement.
Statement by the President
The President: It is my privilege today to open the 
general debate of the General Assembly at its seventy-
first session. In exercising this privilege, I am greatly 
humbled, as a proud Fijian citizen, to know that this is 
the first time in the seven decades of the history of the 
United  Nations  that  a  President  of  the  Assembly  has 
hailed from one of the Pacific island nations.
Three hundred and sixty-one days ago in this great 
Hall,  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
was  adopted.  The  result  of  two  years  of  intense, 
multilateral  negotiations,  the  2030  Agenda’s  adoption 
was like a beacon of hope raised to guide all humankind 
to a better world. With its 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals  (SDGs),  the  2030  Agenda  is  hugely  ambitious. 
Imbued with a universal and transformative spirit, the 
2030 Agenda sets out a master plan for us to transform 
our world into one in which extreme poverty has been 
eliminated  and  peaceful,  well  governed  societies  live 
sustainably  and  in  harmony  with  our  environment. 
Essentially, it provides for a future in which generations 
to come will live securely in a loving world.
How are we progressing? Our first great indication 
of  progress  is  that  the  Paris  Agreement  on  climate 
change was adopted in Paris and we are moving steadily 
towards its ratification. I salute the Secretary-General 
for  his  tireless  work  in  that  area  and  congratulate 
the  Governments  that  have  ratified  the  Agreement. 
Overcoming  the  challenges  of  climate  change  is  the 
existential  responsibility  of  our  time.  We  must  not 
delay  any  further,  and  it  is  encouraging  to  see  that 
more energy is being produced from more affordable, 
4/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
renewable sources than ever before, and more resources 
are going to climate adaptation.
in  extreme  poverty  and  suffering 
It  is  heartening  to  see  that  the  number  of  people 
from 
living 
communicable  diseases, 
like  polio  and  malaria, 
continues  to  decrease.  It  is  evident  that  the  2030 
Agenda is being increasingly used as the framework for 
improved national development plans around the world. 
But we are far from where we need to be.
Millions of people around the globe are suffering 
the brutal effects of war. The crisis in Syria continues 
to bring immense human suffering to the Syrian people, 
for both those who have fled in search of sanctuary and 
those  who  have  stayed  under  inhumane  conditions.  I 
strongly  condemn  the  attacks  on  a  United  Nations 
aid  convoy  that  was  seeking  to  bring  desperately 
needed  food  and  medical  supplies  to  people  in  need. 
The  deliberate  targeting  of  humanitarian  personnel 
is a flagrant violation of international law and totally 
morally unacceptable.
Around the world, more than 60 million people are 
on the move, many risking their lives to flee conflict or 
disaster. Week after week, innocent people are falling 
victim to the despicable acts of violent extremists. The 
gap between rich and poor, between men and women, 
between developing countries and advanced economies 
remains stubbornly high. At a time when collaboration 
and  partnership  are  needed  more  than  ever,  we  are 
witnessing increasing xenophobia, divisive rhetoric and 
attacks on our human rights and fundamental freedoms. 
Meanwhile, global greenhouse-gas emissions continue 
to rise. Incredible damage is being done to our oceans 
and  seas,  and  the  window  of  opportunity  to  avert 
catastrophic climate change is rapidly closing.
Taken together, it is clear that the 2030 Sustainable 
Development  Agenda  is  not  yet  producing  the  results 
that  our  world  so  desperately  needs.  What  are  we 
therefore going to do about it? There is only one answer: 
we  must  do  better  to  accelerate  the  implementation 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  We  need  to 
teach  our  young  people  about  the  Goals,  because  for 
the required transformation to occur, it must first take 
hold in our minds and in our values. It is our children 
who will be the inheritors of the Agenda’s results, so 
every  classroom  around  the  world  should  be  teaching 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  I  encourage  all 
members to achieve that reality. Greater public resources 
must  be  dedicated  to  achieving  the  SDGs,  either 
directly  through  domestic  finance  or  through  official 
development assistance such as climate financing. We 
need  to  create  better  regulatory  environments  and  to 
require the international financial system to ensure that 
financing is increasingly focused on productive, green 
and socially responsible investment. We must support 
greater access for poor and marginalized communities 
and  countries  to  science,  technology  and  innovation, 
to  trade  opportunities  and  to  more  sustainable  debt 
solutions. We can, and must, work better on sustaining 
peace,  preventing  and  responding  to  conflict  and  in 
managing the global humanitarian and refugee crisis.
Collective  action  by  Member  States  must  be 
advanced. Strategic and inclusive partnerships must be 
forged to meet the global challenges we face — from 
climate  change  to  conflict,  from  violent  extremism 
and terrorism to the contagious diseases that threaten 
humankind.  As  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  I 
assure the Assembly that I will do everything possible 
to support members in addressing those issues during 
the seventy-first session.
In summary, during the seventy-first session I am 
committed to a universal push for the implementation 
of  all  17  SDGs.  I  will  push  for  a  United  Nations 
development system that works seamlessly as one and 
that responds effectively to the needs of Member States 
for which United Nations support is essential.
In response to the crisis our beloved ocean is facing, 
I will oversee the preparations for the United Nations 
conference  on  SDG  14,  on  oceans,  to  be  held  here  in 
the Hall and in the surrounding conference rooms from 
5 to 9 June 2017. We are building the conference to be 
the game-changer for the way we safeguard our ocean’s 
well-being, and I hope to see as many members attend 
as possible.
Beyond the 2030 Agenda, as President of the General 
Assembly, I am fully conscious of the responsibilities, 
functions  and  powers  of  this  organ  under  Chapter  IV 
of the Charter of the United Nations. Next week, I will 
travel to Colombia for the historic signing of the peace 
agreement  between  the  Government  of  Colombia  and 
the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia — a 
welcome agreement ending decades of civil conflict.
It  is  my  hope  that,  in  collaboration  with  Member 
States and the wider United Nations community, it will 
also  prove  possible  over  the  coming  months  to  take 
steps  to  advance  other  pressing  agendas  before  the 
Organization:  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations  peace 
16-29296
5/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
and  security  pillar  by  enhancing  the  Organization’s 
ability to prevent and respond to conflicts and threats; 
to advance the sustaining peace agenda as fundamental 
to  the  United  Nations  engagement  across  peace  and 
security, development and human rights — there can be, 
after all, no sustainable development without sustainable 
peace;  to  combat  discrimination  and  to  further  the 
realization of human rights so that all people are able to 
live free and equal in dignity and rights; to strengthen 
the United Nations counter-terrorism architecture and 
to  protect  the  lives  of  the  vulnerable  and  those  most 
at  risk  of  such  mass  violations;  to  strive  for  greater 
consensus  on  disarmament  and  non-proliferation;  and 
to work towards transforming the United Nations itself 
by addressing the need for gender equality and parity, 
better geographical balance, encouraging practices that 
are  flexible,  innovative  and  coherent  and  making  the 
Organization more effective, efficient, accountable and 
fit for purpose.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  salute  from  this  high 
rostrum the thousands of United Nations peacekeepers 
serving around the world, and to remember those who 
have made the ultimate sacrifice in service to the high 
ideals of this institution. Blessed are the peacemakers.
As  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-first session, I am fully committed to building 
on  the  standards  of  transparency  and  inclusiveness 
set  by  my  predecessor.  That  will  be  particularly  so 
for  the  process  by  which  the  new  Secretary-General 
is  appointed.  Thereafter,  our  work  will  be  to  support 
a  smooth  transition  and  a  strong  start  for  the  next 
Secretary-General.  I  will  ensure  that  there  are  ample 
opportunities  for  early  interaction  between  the  new 
Secretary-General and Member States so as to build a 
solid working relationship with the Assembly.
During the seventy-first session, I will also seek to 
improve our ways of working in the General Assembly. 
I  will  look  to  address  the  effectiveness  of  Assembly 
committees  to  improve  the  coherence  between  the 
major  organs,  to  enhance  synergies  and  coherence  of 
the agenda in the light of the Sustainable Development 
Goals  and  to  tackle  long-standing  issues  that  are 
holding  back  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  the 
Organization  and  embed  greater  transparency  and 
ethics into all we do.
Of course, one area in particular need of attention 
is  Security  Council  reform.  We  must  have  a  Security 
Council that is structured to be able to meet the new and 
emerging  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century.  That 
includes  tackling  the  security  dimensions  resulting 
from climate change. During the seventy-first session, 
we  must  work  with  each  other  across  and  between 
traditional groups to build trust and flexibility so that 
we can achieve reform that is for the common good.
In conclusion, we have an expression in the Fijian 
language that exhorts us to look ahead and not to dwell 
on the grievances, the stalemates and the mistakes of 
the  past.  Today,  I  have  touched  on  some  of  the  great 
challenges that lie ahead for humankind. Let us prepare 
ourselves  for  them.  It  has  been  said  that  a  politician 
thinks of the next election but that a statesperson thinks 
of the next generation. Like never before, we must look 
to the statesmen and stateswomen among us to guide us 
to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development and to deliver the secure and harmonious 
future that all of us wish for our children, grandchildren 
and for those who come after them.
Before giving the floor to the first speaker for this 
morning, I would like to remind members that the list 
of speakers for the general debate has been established 
on the agreed basis that statements should be no longer 
than 15 minutes, to enable all the speakers to be heard 
at a given meeting. Within this time frame, I would like 
to  appeal  to  speakers  to  deliver  their  statements  at  a 
reasonable pace so that interpretation in the six official 
United Nations languages may be provided properly.
I would also like to draw the Assembly’s attention to 
the decision taken by the General Assembly at previous 
sessions,  namely,  that  the  practice  of  expressing 
congratulations inside the General Assembly Hall after 
a  speech  has  been  delivered  is  strongly  discouraged. 
In  that  connection,  after  delivering  their  statements, 
speakers are invited to exit the General Assembly Hall 
through  Room  GA-200,  located  behind  the  podium, 
before returning to their seats.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
proceed in the same manner during the general debate 
of the seventy-first session?
It was so decided.
The President: Finally, I should like to draw to the 
attention  of  members  that  during  the  general  debate 
official photographs of all the speakers are taken by the 
Department of Public Information. Members interested 
in obtaining those photographs are requested to contact 
the Photo Library of the United Nations.
6/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
Address by Mr. Michel Temer, President of the 
Federative Republic of Brazil
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  of  the  Federative  Republic 
of Brazil.
Mr.  Michel  Temer,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Michel  Temer,  President  of  the 
Federative  Republic  of  Brazil,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Temer  (spoke  in  Portuguese):  Brazil 
brings  its  natural  spirit  of  openness  to  the  United 
Nations and to the world. We are a country that is built 
on and by the strength of diversity. We believe in the 
power of dialogue. We strongly advocate the principles 
that  govern  the  Organization  —  principles  that  are 
needed  now  more  than  ever  before.  Today’s  world 
shows signs of uncertainty and instability.
The international system is currently experiencing 
what  could  be  described  as  an  order  deficit.  Reality 
has  moved  ahead  faster  than  our  collective  ability  to 
address  it.  From  outbreaks  of  regional  conflicts  to 
violent  fundamentalism,  we  face  both  old  and  new 
threats  that  we  have  been  unable  to  contain.  In  view 
of the refugee crisis and the upsurge in terrorism, we 
cannot  help  but  be  overwhelmed  by  a  sentiment  of 
perplexity  or  bewilderment.  Hotbeds  of  tension  show 
no  signs  of  fading  away.  A  state  of  virtual  political 
inaction leads to prolonged wars with no solution. The 
system’s inability to react to conflicts further worsens 
cycles  of  destruction.  The  social  vulnerability  of  so 
many in several countries is exploited by narratives of 
fear and entrenchment.
There has been a return to xenophobia, and extreme 
forms  of  nationalism  are  gaining  ground.  Different 
expressions  of  demagoguery  bring  about  serious 
risks  on  all  continents.  Even  in  the  economic  arena, 
the fact is that today’s world lacks standards that can 
otherwise  reduce  globalization’s  asymmetries.  Many 
have yielded to the easy answer of protectionism. We 
cannot  possibly  shy  away  from  such  a  world.  On  the 
contrary, we must join hands and unite to transform it 
through  diplomacy  —  balanced  but  firm  diplomacy, 
sobering  but  determined.  Such  diplomacy  should  be 
well-grounded  and  embracing  of  change.  That  is  how 
Brazil has conducted diplomacy both within our region 
and beyond as a country that has pursued its interests 
without ever relinquishing its principles.
What  we  wish  for  the  world  is  what  we  wish  for 
Brazil —  peace,  sustainable  development  and  respect 
for human rights. Those are the values and aspirations 
of our society. Those are the values and aspirations that 
guide  us  on  the  international  stage.  We  would  like  to 
live  in  a  world  in  which  law  prevails  over  force.  We 
would  like  to  have  rules  that  reflect  the  pluralistic 
nature  of  the  community  of  nations.  We  would  like 
to  have  a  results-oriented  United  Nations,  capable  of 
facing  up  to  the  major  challenges  of  our  time.  Our 
debates  and  negotiations  cannot  possibly  be  confined 
to  the  Organization’s  rooms  and  halls.  Instead,  they 
should  reverberate  through  the  markets  of  Kabul,  the 
streets of Paris and the ruins of Aleppo.
The  United  Nations  cannot  be  reduced  to  a  mere 
observation  post  that  condemns  the  world’s  scourges. 
Instead, the Organization should assert itself as a source 
of  effective  solutions.  Those  who  sowed  the  seeds  of 
conflict  have  reinvented  themselves,  but  multilateral 
institutions have not. It is for that reason that Brazil has 
warned  that  it  is  essential  to  make  global  governance 
structures more representative, many of which have by 
now aged and have become disconnected from reality. 
The  Security  Council  must  be  reformed.  We  stand 
ready  to  overcome  the  current  impasse  surrounding 
that issue.
Many  challenges  go  beyond  national  borders, 
including trafficking in drugs and weapons, and have 
an impact on our cities, schools and families. Fighting 
organized  crime  requires  us  to  work  hand  in  hand. 
The very safety of our citizens ultimately depends on 
the  quality  of  our  collective  action.  An  example  of 
this  is  the  war  in  Syria,  which  continues  to  engender 
unacceptable  suffering,  with  women  and  children  as 
the main victims. A political solution can no longer be 
postponed. We call on the parties involved in the conflict 
to  respect  the  agreements  endorsed  by  the  Security 
Council and to guarantee the civilian population access 
to humanitarian aid.
We are also concerned by the lack of prospects for 
peace between Israel and Palestine. Brazil continues to 
support a solution based on two States living in peaceful 
coexistence within mutually agreed and internationally 
16-29296
7/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
recognized borders. It is our common responsibility to 
give new impetus to the negotiating process.
Another  reason  for  concern,  if  I  may  say  so, 
is  the  lack  of  progress  on  the  nuclear  disarmament 
agenda.  There  are  thousands  of  nuclear  weapons  in 
the world today. That amounts to thousands of threats 
to  international  peace  and  security.  The  most  recent 
nuclear  test  in  the  Korean  peninsula  is  a  reminder  of 
the danger that nuclear proliferation poses. Brazil can 
speak  with  the  authority  of  a  country  where  the  use 
of  nuclear  energy  exclusively  for  peaceful  purposes 
is  an  obligation  enshrined  in  the  Constitution  of  the 
Federative Republic of Brazil.
Yet  not  all  news  is  bad.  There  are  well-known 
examples, which have already been mentioned in today’s 
meeting, of what can be accomplished through dialogue. 
We  celebrate  that  diplomacy  has  prevailed  on  the 
Iranian nuclear dossier and encourage full compliance 
and  understanding  with  the  agreements  reached.  The 
peace accord between the Colombian government and 
the  Fuerzas  Armadas  Revolucionarias  de  Colombia 
allows us to envisage the end of the last armed conflict 
on our continent. I congratulate President Juan Manuel 
Santos and all Colombians for that achievement. Brazil 
stands  ready  to  contribute  to  peace  in  Colombia.  The 
re-establishment of diplomatic relations between Cuba 
and the United States of America shows that there are 
no eternal antagonisms or unbreakable deadlocks. We 
hope that closer ties will bring progress to the region 
as a whole, to include the economic and trade arenas. 
We hope that the re–establishment of relations between 
Cuba and the United State will be followed by the end 
of the economic embargo against Cuba.
for 
applying 
responsible 
This  year,  Brazil  and  Argentina  celebrated  the 
twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  Brazilian-Argentine 
Agency  for  Accounting  and  Control  of  Nuclear 
Materials.  The  Agency  is  the  world’s  only  binational 
organization 
nuclear 
safeguards.  As  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  has 
stated,  the  Agency  is  an  inspiration  for  regional  and 
global  efforts  towards  the  elimination  of  nuclear 
weapons.  Confidence-building  between  Brazilians 
and  Argentines  in  the  nuclear  arena,  as  I  have  just 
indicated,  is  part  of  the  inception  of  our  integration 
experience,  and  of  the  foundation  of  projects  like  the 
Southern Common Market. For Brazil, Latin American 
integration  is  not  only  Government  policy  but  the 
expression of a constitutional principle and a permanent 
foreign policy priority.
As  we  are  all  aware,  Governments  of  different 
political  inclinations  coexist  in  our  region.  That  is 
natural  and  sound.  What  is  essential  is  that  there  be 
mutual  respect  and  that  we  agree  on  basic  common 
objectives,  such  as  economic  growth,  human  rights, 
social  progress,  security  and  freedom  for  all  citizens. 
Those  are  the  objectives  that  guide  and  inform  the 
presence  of  the  United  Nations  in  Haiti.  Since  2004, 
Brazil  has  led  the  military  component  of  the  United 
Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti and has sent more 
than 33,000 contingents to that Caribbean country. We 
trust  that  the  United  Nations  presence  on  the  ground 
in Haiti will focus more on developing institutions and 
capacity-building.
Brazil’s  neighbours  also  include  our  brothers 
and  sisters  from  Africa,  to  whom  we  are  tied  by  the 
Atlantic  Ocean  and  by  a  long-standing  history.  This 
year,  we  will  host  the  Summit  of  the  Community  of 
Portuguese-speaking  Countries.  Of  the  Community’s 
nine members, six are African States. Brazil therefore 
looks towards Africa with friendship and respect, with 
a determination to undertake projects that will unite us 
even more.
Development  is  more  than  just  an  objective,  it  is 
an  imperative.  A  developed  society  is  one  where  all 
are  entitled  to  high-quality  public  services  such  as 
education, health care, transportation and security; one 
where  equal  opportunity  is  assured  and  where  access 
to  decent  work  opportunities  is  not  a  privilege  for  a 
few. In a nutshell, development is paramount to dignity, 
and the dignity of humankind is one of the principles 
of the Brazilian State, as laid down in article 1 of the 
Constitution of the Federative Republic of Brazil.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
is  the  greatest  United  Nations  endeavour  in  favour  of 
development. Turning it into reality will require more 
than the sum of national efforts. Supporting developing 
countries  will  be  crucial  to  the  achievement  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Prosperity  and  well-
being today should not impair the future of humankind. 
Economic  growth  should  be  socially  balanced  and 
environmentally friendly. After all, we live on the same 
Planet.  There  is  no  plan  B.  We  must  therefore  take 
ambitious  measures  under  the  principle  of  common 
but  differentiated  responsibilities.  Tomorrow,  I  will 
formally  deposit  Brazil’s  instrument  of  ratification  of 
the Paris Agreement on climate change. As the world’s 
most  biodiverse  country,  and  with  one  of  the  world’s 
cleanest  energy  mixes,  Brazil  is  an  environmental 
8/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
powerhouse  with  an  uncompromising  commitment  to 
the environment.
Development  also  depends  on  trade.  In  periods 
of  economic  crisis,  protectionism  often  increases.  It 
must  be  curbed.  Protectionism  is  a  perverse  barrier 
to  development.  It  reduces  the  number  of  jobs  and 
opportunities  and  makes  men,  women  and  families 
around  the  world,  including  in  Brazil,  fall  victim  to 
unemployment  and  hopelessness.  The  multilateral 
trading system is part of the fight against that evil. Ending 
protectionism  in  agriculture  is  particularly  important 
for  development.  We  cannot  keep  backtracking  on 
the  implementation  of  World  Trade  Organization 
commitments  on  agriculture  any  longer.  It  is  urgent 
to  prevent  sanitary  and  phytosanitary  measures  from 
serving protectionist purposes. It is urgent to discipline 
subsidies and other distortive domestic support policies 
in the agricultural sector. Home to a modern, diversified 
and competitive agriculture, Brazil contributes to food 
security. We produce for ourselves and we help to feed 
the world.
Unfortunately, the full enjoyment of human rights 
remains  an  unaccomplished  aspiration  in  today’s 
world. Every human being has the right to live freely, 
according  to  one’s  own  beliefs  and  convictions.  Such 
fundamental liberty, however, is disrespected every day. 
Persecutions,  political  detentions  and  other  arbitrary 
acts remain recurrent in many areas of the world. Our 
eyes  should  also  turn  to  minorities  and  other  more 
vulnerable  segments  of  our  society.  That  is  what  we 
have done in Brazil through income-transfer initiatives 
and  housing  and  education  programmes,  including 
financial  aid  available  to  students  from  poor  families 
and  backgrounds.  We  have  also  advocated  gender 
equality as expressly envisaged in our Constitution. It 
is incumbent upon us to safeguard the rights of all.
Refugees  and  migrants  are,  more  often  than  not, 
victims  of  human  rights  violations,  poverty,  war  and 
political  repression.  Yesterday’s  high-level  meeting 
cast light on some of those substantive matters. Brazil 
is  the  product  of  immigrants,  men  and  women  from 
all  continents.  We  repudiate  all  forms  of  racism, 
xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. We provide 
shelter  to  refugees  and  migrants,  as  I  underscored  in 
yesterday’s meeting (see A/71/PV.4B). 
In a world still plagued by hatred and sectarianism, 
the  Rio  de  Janeiro  Olympic  and  Paralympic  games 
showed that it was possible for nations to come together 
in  an  atmosphere  of  peace  and  harmony.  In  fact,  for 
the  first  time,  a  delegation  of  refugees  was  able  to 
compete  in  the  games.  Therefore,  through  sports,  we 
can succeed in promoting peace, fighting exclusion and 
tackling prejudice.
Finally, I bring to the United Nations a message of 
uncompromising commitment to democracy. Brazil has 
just undergone a long and complex process, led by our 
national congress and supreme court, which ultimately 
led  to  an  impeachment.  I  must  stress  that  everything 
unfolded in full compliance with constitutional order. 
We offer that example as a clear indication that there can 
be no democracy without the rule of law with standards 
that apply equally to all, even the most powerful. That 
is what Brazil is showing the world through the process 
of cleansing its own political system.
We have an independent judiciary, an active public 
prosecutor’s office and executive and legislative bodies 
that fulfil their duties. Individual agendas do not prevail 
but  rather  the  will  of  institutions,  under  the  careful 
oversight of a pluralistic society and a genuinely free 
press.  Our  task  now  consists  in  resuming  economic 
growth and ensuring that Brazilian workers regain the 
millions  of  lost  jobs.  We  are  clear  on  the  path  to  be 
followed. It is the path of fiscal and social responsibility. 
Trust has already been restored and a more prosperous 
horizon lies ahead in the near future. Our development 
process  consists  primarily  of 
trade, 
science,  and  technology  partnerships.  In  that  regard, 
our relations with countries of all continents will prove 
decisive.
investment, 
I do not wish to close my remarks without addressing 
the Secretary-General, who will soon be leaving office. 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  as  we  all  know,  has  devoted  the 
last  10  years  of  his  life  to  a  tireless  pursuit  of  peace, 
development and human rights. He can be sure that we 
are highly appreciative and thankful for his efforts.
In the second decade of the twenty-first century, we 
can no longer doubt that our problems are global. There 
is no place for isolationism. Ours is a common destiny. 
At  the  United  Nations,  more  than  anywhere  else,  we 
can  come  close  to  the  universalist  ideal  that  drives 
us all. About sixty years ago, my fellow countryman, 
Oswaldo Aranha, stated from this rostrum that even in 
a world as disturbed as it was then, no one wished to 
see the doors of the United Nations close. He warned 
us all that without the United Nations, the shadows of 
war  would  descend  upon  humankind  to  relentlessly 
16-29296
9/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
and indefinitely eclipse the hope of so many men and 
women. It is in the Assembly of nations that we nurture 
our  hope,  a  hope  achieved  through  dialogue,  mutual 
understanding  and  respect  for  others,  ourselves,  our 
children and our grandchildren.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Federative Republic 
of Brazil for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Michel  Temer,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Idriss Deby Itno, President of the 
Republic of Chad
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Chad.
Mr.  Idriss  Deby  Itno,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Chad, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Mr. Idriss Deby Itno, President of the 
Republic  of  Chad,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President Deby Itno (spoke in French): Allow me 
at the outset to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Peter 
Thomson,  Permanent  Representative  of  Fiji,  who  has 
been elected President of the General Assembly at its 
seventy-first  session.  We  wish  him  every  success  in 
discharging his mandate. Chad pledges its full support. 
I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  and  thank  His 
Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, outgoing President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  for  his  dedication  and  his 
many initiatives to strengthen the role of the Assembly, 
the  most  democratic  and  representative  entity  of  the 
United Nations.
At  the  same  time,  on  behalf  of  Chad  and  the 
African Union, I would like to congratulate and render 
a heartfelt tribute to His Excellency Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon, whose mandate will soon come to a close. 
His leadership, commitment and unflagging dedication 
during the past 10 years have contributed to buttressing 
the role of the United Nations and promoting its ideals.
Founded over 70 years ago by 51 Member States, 
the United Nations today now consists of 193 Member 
States. The evolution of humankind has made our States 
Armed  conflict, 
increasingly  interdependent  and  interconnected,  just 
as  the  challenges  have  become  global  and  collective 
in  nature.  The  world  in  which  we  live  is  facing 
multidimensional threats which prompt great concern.
terrorism,  climate  change, 
mass  migration,  underdevelopment,  poverty,  and 
political,  economic  and  financial  crises  have  reached 
unprecedented  proportions.  No  continent  or  region 
of  the  world  has  been  spared  by  at  least  one  of  those 
scourges.  Citizens  of  the  world  from  all  walks  of  life 
in  some  cases  live  in  a  perpetual  state  of  fear  and  in 
others in a state of despair because wars, indiscriminate 
violence,  poverty  and  the  adverse  effects  of  climate 
change are on the rise and there is slim hope of solving 
those problems.
The  growing  number  of  refugees  and  displaced 
persons throughout the world; the ongoing shipwrecks 
of  makeshift  boats  in  the  Mediterranean,  resulting  in 
the loss of thousands of lives; and the Syrian tragedy, 
which has been unfolding before our eyes for more than 
five years, among other challenges, are tangible events 
that eloquently illustrate our collective powerlessness.
In  this  world  of  uncertainty,  Africa  is  the  most 
vulnerable  and  exposed  continent.  The  victim  of 
colonial plunder and affected by the numerous problems 
caused  by  underdevelopment,  Africa  is  today  under 
full attack from terrorism — the greatest threat of the 
century. Somalia, Libya, Mali, the Lake Chad basin and 
the Sahel in general are seriously destabilized and the 
danger  is  threatening  to  spread  throughout  the  entire 
continent.  Despite  their  modest  means,  the  African 
Union and its member States are highly mobilized and 
committed to fighting this absolute evil.
That  is  evidenced  by  the  great  sacrifices  that  the 
African  Union  Mission  in  Somalia  has  made  since 
2004,  the  implementation  of  the  Multinational  Joint 
Task  Force  by  States  of  the  Lake  Chad  basin  and 
Benin to fight the Boko Haram terrorist group, and the 
establishment of the Group of Five for the Sahel, which 
is a framework for security cooperation and countering 
all  cross-border  threats  in  the  countries  of  the  Sahel. 
This impetus for mobilization should be strengthened 
and  supported  by  the  entire  international  community 
by  all  means  available,  including  physical,  financial 
and  military,  as  well  as  through  intelligence-sharing. 
In that regard, from this rostrum I appeal to all States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  Africa’s 
partners,  to  contribute  to  the  African  Fund  Against 
10/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
Terrorism created by the African Union at its Summit, 
held in Kigali in July.
Africa 
is  also  working  with  great  diligence 
to  manage  the  crises  and  conflicts  besetting  it  by 
promoting  a  regional  approach  to  crisis  resolution, 
underpinned by a peace and security architecture. Such 
an  approach,  which  is  deserving  of  the  firm  support 
of  the  international  community,  seeks  to  strengthen 
the  response  capacity  of  regional  and  subregional 
organizations 
their  geographical 
proximity, knowledge of the terrain and their rapid and 
flexible  deployment  capabilities.  The  African  Union 
Mission  in  the  Sudan,  the  African  Union  Mission  in 
Somalia, the African-led International Support Mission 
in  Mali  and  the  African-led  International  Support 
Mission  in  the  Central  African  Republic  are  concrete 
examples of the efforts of the African Union. 
light  of 
in 
the 
The complexity of conflicts throughout the world, 
including  in  Africa,  is  such  that  no  organization  can 
resolve  them  alone.  That  is  why  the  African  Union 
has always advocated a strategic partnership with the 
United Nations to confront security challenges on the 
continent.  The  African  Union  has  deployed  all  of  the 
aforementioned operations on behalf of the international 
community  and  in  deference  to  the  purview  of  the 
Security Council. Consequently, the African Union can 
legitimately  count  on  the  multifaceted  and  financial 
support of the United Nations.
We  welcome  the  fact  that  this  long-held  position 
of  the  African  Union  is  endorsed  in  the  High-level 
Independent Panel on United Nations Peace Operations 
in  its  20l5  report  (see  A/70/95),  which  has  been 
unanimously  praised.  Accordingly,  in  the  spirit  of 
shared  responsibility,  at  its  latest  summit  the  African 
Union  adopted  a  measure  to  shoulder  25  per  cent  of 
the  cost  of  peacekeeping  operations  authorized  by 
the  Security  Council  on  the  continent.  The  African 
Union hopes to receive the remaining 75 per cent from 
the  United  Nations  peacekeeping  budget,  in  keeping 
with  the  spirit  of  the  division  of  labour  and  cost-
sharing. The African Union anxiously awaits the start 
of  constructive  discussions  with  the  United  Nations 
on  this  proposal  in  order  to  reach  an  agreement  that 
could  further  strengthen  the  exemplary  partnership 
between the African Union and the United Nations in 
the interests of peace and the protection of civilians in 
times of crisis.
The political and security situation in many African 
countries  concerns  us  deeply.  Mali  remains  a  target 
of  attacks  by  terrorist  groups  despite  the  presence  of 
United  Nations  forces  on  the  ground  and  the  peace 
agreements reached following arduous negotiations in 
Algiers. The international community must undertake 
an  in-depth  analysis  of  the  situation  with  a  view  to 
ending  the  conflict  through  dialogue,  without  losing 
sight  of  tailored  and  appropriate  responses  to  the 
terrorist threat.
The situations in Libya and South Sudan remains 
extremely  troubling  and  requires  a  more  substantial 
mobilization on the part of the international community, 
with the vigorous engagement and coordination of the 
respective regional organizations involved in resolving 
the crises. In that respect, the joint effort of the African 
Union  and  the  United  Nations  to  deploy  a  civilian 
protection force of 4,000 men, in addition to the United 
Nations Mission in South Sudan, is to be commended. 
We  also  call  for  more  concerted  efforts  between  the 
African  Union  High-level  Implementation  Panel  for 
the Sudan and South Sudan and the United Nations to 
persuade the non-signatories of the Doha Document for 
Peace in Darfur to commit to it.
Despite the successful holding of presidential and 
legislative elections, the situation in the Central African 
Republic  remains  fragile,  as  evidenced  by  the  latest 
clashes between armed groups within the country. That 
situation requires a long-term follow-up, and the newly 
elected  Central  African  authorities  must  be  further 
supported in their efforts to normalize the situation in 
their country. I call on the international community to 
maintain and strengthen its support for peacebuilding 
and  national  reconciliation  there.  We  also  urge  the 
political  actors  in  brotherly  countries,  including  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi and Gabon, 
to  prioritize  dialogue  and  cooperation  with  regard  to 
pre-  and  post-electoral  crises.  The  African  Union  is 
ready to assist them in settling their disputes through 
peaceful means.
The serious crises affecting Iraq, Syria and Yemen 
call  on  our  collective  conscience  concerning  the 
many  who  have  been  killed,  wounded,  displaced  or 
made  refugees,  as  well  as  to  the  destruction  of  their 
vital 
international  community 
must  urgently  find  a  political  solution  to  all  of  these 
crises through direct negotiations between the parties 
in conflict.
infrastructure.  The 
16-29296
11/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
Concerning  the  Israeli–Palestinian  conflict,  we 
call  for  a  definitive,  just  and  equitable  solution  that 
guarantees security for Israel and an independent and 
viable  State  for  Palestinians,  urging  both  parties  to 
resume  dialogue  and  relaunch  the  peace  process,  and 
setting  out  a  clear  framework  for  future  negotiations, 
along with a deadline, that will make it possible to put 
an end to the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territory.
Africa  is  not  only  a  gigantic  reservoir  of  raw 
materials;  it  is  also  home  to  more  than  1  billion  men 
and  women  who  yearn  for  harmonious  development 
accompanied by social well-being and prosperity. The 
international  community  can  eradicate  poverty  in  the 
world only if it upholds the commitments made within 
the  framework  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  (resolution  70/1),  which  puts  people 
at  the  very  core  of  all  concerns.  The  implementation 
of  the  Agenda  must  be  an  absolute  priority  in  order 
to  eliminate  extreme  poverty,  fight  climate  change, 
strengthen resilience and promote sustainable economic 
growth that will benefit all.
In  this  respect,  we  stress  the  urgent  need  for  an 
effective  mobilization  of  the  resources  necessary  to 
finance  development  in  accordance  with  the  Addis 
Ababa Action Agenda. Africa is committed to playing 
its part by ensuring an effective coordination of efforts 
as well as consistency among the goals of both Agenda 
2063  and  Agenda  2030.  No  region  of  the  world,  no 
State can prosper alone or be surrounded by an ocean 
of  destitution  and  poverty  without  experiencing  the 
consequences. 
The  successive  waves  of  young  African  migrants 
moving  towards  Europe  that  we  see  on  a  daily  basis, 
thousands  of  whom  have  drowned,  are  a  challenge  to 
the conscience of the international community. Though 
we may erect barriers, build ghettos and mobilize naval 
forces  to  contain  migrants,  the  phenomenon  will  not 
stop until the regions concerned are closely involved in 
a suitable collective response. The solutions outlined at 
the 2015 Valletta summit seem, unfortunately, to have 
fallen short of our expectations and of the challenges. 
It  is  not  a  matter  of  providing  charity  to  Africa,  but, 
rather, of establishing with it a true strategic partnership 
aimed at tackling common global challenges. It is not 
too  late  to  begin  collective  and  concerted  action  that 
takes on board the legitimate concerns of all the parties 
concerned.
One of the major challenges facing Africa is climate 
change and environmental issues. The advance of the 
desert,  the  silting  up  of  the  Niger  river,  the  El  Niño 
phenomenon  in  southern  Africa  and  deforestation  are 
all the most striking signs of climate change in Africa. 
Lake Chad has shrunk from 25,000 square kilometres 
in  1960  to  less  than  2,000  today;  this  is  additional 
proof  of  the  degradation  of  our  planet’s  climate.  This 
ecological  disaster,  which  is  endangering  coexistence 
among communities and dangerously threatening food 
security in the Sahel, will certainly have consequences 
for  the  security  and  the  stability  of  the  region,  as  we 
see  from  the  strong  presence  and  the  accelerated 
development of the terrorist threat.
The  partnership  with  Africa  must  also  be  seen 
in  the  fight  for  the  preservation  of  the  environment, 
which is seriously threatened. In this respect, the Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  signed  on  22  April 
by all States, creates new obligations and a structural 
framework  for  the  long-term  fight  against  climate 
change. There is a great deal left to do to in order to 
achieve  tangible  achievements  in  the  implementation 
of 
the  commitments  undertaken  by  all  parties 
according to the principle of common but differentiated 
responsibility. 
The  Agreement  will  be  credible  only  if  it  is 
accompanied by specific action aimed at bridging the 
enormous gap between the efforts that have been pledged 
and  the  noble  objectives  that  are  sought,  including 
those  established  at  Copenhagen,  namely,  mobilizing 
$100 billion by 2024 for the poorest countries.
The  question  of  United  Nations  reform,  and 
specifically  that  of  the  Security  Council,  remains  a 
major concern for Africa, which, because of a historical 
injustice,  remains  marginalized  in  this  organ.  It  is 
unfortunate that such reform, which the African Union 
has called for at every one of its summits for years, does 
not  seem  to  prompt  any  interest.  Nonetheless,  Africa 
will continue to call for the creation of a more just and 
equitable universal Organization, while reaffirming its 
position  on  this  matter  as  expressed  in  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus.
Confidence  and  hope  in  the  global  solutions  that 
the United Nations inspires will be well founded only 
if all nations, in their diversity, take part in their design 
and implementation. All of us, as in a marriage, must be 
faithful to humankind, for better and for worse.
12/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Chad 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Idriss Deby Itno, President of the Republic of 
Chad,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Barack Obama, President of the 
United States of America
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America.
Mr.  Barack  Obama,  President  of  the  United 
States  of  America,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United 
States  of  America,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Obama:  As  I  address  the  General 
Assembly in this Hall as President for the final time, let 
me recount the progress that we have made these last eight 
years. From the depths of the greatest financial crisis of 
our time, we coordinated our response to avoid further 
catastrophe and return the global economy to growth. 
We have taken away terrorist safe havens, strengthened 
the  non-proliferation  regime  and  resolved  the  Iranian 
nuclear issue through diplomacy. We opened relations 
with  Cuba,  helped  Colombia  end  Latin  America’s 
longest war, and we welcome a democratically elected 
leader  of  Myanmar  to  this  Assembly.  Our  assistance 
is  helping  people  feed  themselves,  care  for  the  sick, 
power communities across Africa and promote models 
of development rather than dependence. We have made 
international  institutions  such  as  the  World  Bank  and 
the International Monetary Fund more representative, 
while  establishing  a  framework  to  protect  our  planet 
from the ravages of climate change.
This is important work. It has made a real difference 
in the lives of our people, and it could not have happened 
had we not worked together. Yet around the globe we 
are  seeing  the  same  forces  of  global  integration  that 
have  made  us  interdependent  also  expose  deep  fault 
lines in the existing international order.  We see it in the 
headlines every day. Around the world, refugees flow 
across borders in flight from brutal conflict.  Financial 
disruptions  continue  to  weigh  upon  our  workers  and 
entire communities. Across vast swaths of the Middle 
East, basic security and basic order have broken down. 
We  see  too  many  Governments  muzzling  journalists, 
quashing dissent and censoring the flow of information. 
Terrorist  networks  use  social  media  to  prey  upon 
the  minds  of  our  youth,  endangering  open  societies 
and  spurring  anger  against  innocent  immigrants  and 
Muslims.  Powerful  nations  contest  the  constraints 
placed on them by international law.
This is the paradox that defines our world today. A 
quarter century after the end of the Cold War, the world 
is by many measures less violent and more prosperous 
than ever before, and yet our societies are filled with 
uncertainty,  unease  and  strife.  Despite  enormous 
progress, as people lose trust in institutions, governing 
becomes  more  difficult  and  tensions  between  nations 
become more quick to surface.
I therefore believe that at this moment we all face 
a choice. We can choose to press forward with a better 
model of cooperation and integration, or we can retreat 
into a world sharply divided, and ultimately in conflict, 
along age-old lines of nation, tribe, race or religion. I 
want to suggest today that we must go forward and not 
backward.  I  believe  that  as  imperfect  as  they  are,  the 
principles  of  open  markets,  accountable  governance, 
democracy, human rights and international law that we 
have  forged  remain  the  firmest  foundation  for  human 
progress in this century. I make this argument not based 
on theory or ideology, but on facts — facts that all too 
often we forget in the immediacy of current events. 
This is the most important fact: the integration of 
our global economy has made life better for billions of 
men, women and children. Over the last 25 years, the 
number  of  people  living  in  extreme  poverty  has  been 
cut from nearly 40 per cent of humanity to under 10 per 
cent. That is unprecedented, and it is not an abstraction. 
It means children have enough to eat; mothers do not 
die in childbirth.
Meanwhile, cracking the genetic code promises to 
cure  diseases  that  have  plagued  us  for  centuries.  The 
Internet  can  deliver  the  entirety  of  human  knowledge 
to  a  young  girl  in  a  remote  village  on  a  single  hand-
held  device.  In  medicine  and  manufacturing, 
in 
education  and  communications,  we  are  experiencing 
a transformation of how human beings live on a scale 
that recalls the revolutions in agriculture and industry. 
As  a  result,  a  person  born  today  is  more  likely  to  be 
16-29296
13/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
healthy, live longer and have access to opportunity than 
at any time in human history.  Moreover, the collapse of 
colonialism and communism has allowed more people 
than  ever  before  to  live  with  the  freedom  to  choose 
their leaders. Despite the real and troubling areas where 
freedom appears to be in retreat, the fact remains that 
the number of democracies around the world has nearly 
doubled in the last 25 years. 
In  remote  corners  of  the  world,  citizens  are 
demanding  respect  for  the  dignity  of  all  people  no 
matter their gender, race, religion, disability or sexual 
orientation,  and  those  who  deny  others  dignity  are 
subject  to  public  reproach.  An  explosion  of  social 
media has given ordinary people more ways to express 
themselves  and  has  raised  people’s  expectations  for 
those  of  us  in  power.  Indeed,  our  international  order 
has been so successful that we take it as a given that 
great Powers no longer fight world wars, that the end of 
the Cold War lifted the shadow of nuclear Armageddon, 
that  the  battlefields  of  Europe  have  been  replaced  by 
peaceful  union  and  that  China  and  India  remain  on  a 
path of remarkable growth.
I  say  all  this  not  to  whitewash  the  challenges  we 
face or to suggest complacency. Rather, I believe that 
we need to acknowledge these achievements in order to 
summon the confidence to carry this progress forward 
and  to  make  sure  that  we  do  not  abandon  those  very 
things  that  have  delivered  this  progress.  In  order  to 
move  forward,  however,  we  do  have  to  acknowledge 
that  the  existing  path  to  global  integration  requires 
a  course  correction.  All  too  often,  those  trumpeting 
the  benefits  of  globalization  have  ignored  inequality 
within and among nations, have ignored the enduring 
appeal of ethnic and sectarian identities, and have left 
international institutions ill-equipped, underfunded and 
underresourced for handling transnational challenges.
As  these  real  problems  have  been  neglected, 
alternative  visions  of  the  world  have  pressed  forward 
both  in  the  wealthiest  countries  and  in  the  poorest: 
religious  fundamentalism,  the  politics  of  ethnicity 
or  tribe  or  sect,  aggressive  nationalism,  a  crude 
populism  —  sometimes  from  the  far  left,  but  more 
often from the far right — which seeks to restore what 
they  believe  was  a  better,  simpler  age  free  of  outside 
contamination.
We  cannot  dismiss 
these  visions.  They  are 
powerful.  They  reflect  dissatisfaction  among  too 
many of our citizens. I do not believe those visions can 
deliver  security  or  prosperity  over  the  long  term,  but 
I  do  believe  that  these  visions  fail  to  recognize,  at  a 
very basic level, our common humanity.  Moreover, I 
believe that the acceleration of travel, technology and 
telecommunications — together with a global economy 
that  depends  on  a  global  supply  chain  —  makes  it 
ultimately self-defeating for those who seek to reverse 
this  progress.  Today,  a  nation  ringed  by  walls  would 
only imprison itself.
The answer cannot be a simple rejection of global 
integration.  Instead,  we  must  work  together  to  make 
sure  that  the  benefits  of  such  integration  are  broadly 
shared  and  that  the  economic,  political  and  cultural 
disruptions that are caused by integration are squarely 
addressed.  This  is  not  the  place  for  a  detailed  policy 
blueprint, but let me offer in broad strokes those areas 
where I believe we must do better together.
It starts with making the global economy work better 
for all people and not just for those at the top. While 
open markets and capitalism have raised standards of 
living around the globe, globalization, combined with 
rapid  progress  in  technology,  has  also  weakened  the 
position of workers and their ability to secure a decent 
wage.  In  advanced  economies  like  my  own,  unions 
have  been  undermined  and  many  manufacturing  jobs 
have disappeared. Often, those who benefit most from 
globalization have used their political power to further 
undermine the position of workers.
In developing countries, labour organizations have 
often been suppressed, and the growth of the middle class 
has been held back by corruption and underinvestment. 
Mercantilist  policies  pursued  by  Governments  with 
export-driven  models 
the 
consensus  that  underpins  global  trade.  Meanwhile, 
global  capital  is  too  often  unaccountable  —  nearly 
$8  trillion  stashed  away  in  tax  havens,  the  shadow 
banking system that grows beyond the reach of effective 
oversight.
to  undermine 
threaten 
 A world in which 1 per cent of humankind controls 
as much wealth as the other 99 per cent will never be 
stable.  I  understand  that  the  gaps  between  rich  and 
poor are not new, but just as the child in a slum today 
can see the skyscraper  nearby, technology now allows 
any  person  with  a  smartphone  to  see  how  the  most 
privileged among us live and the contrast between their 
own lives and others’. Expectations rise then — faster 
than Governments can deliver — and a pervasive sense 
of injustice undermines people’s faith in the system.
14/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
So how do we fix this imbalance? We cannot unwind 
immigration  any  more  than  we  can  stuff  technology 
back  into  a  box.  Nor  can  we  look  to  failed  models  of 
the  past.  If  we  start  resorting  to  trade  wars,  market-
distorting subsidies, beggar-thy-neighbour policies and 
overreliance on natural resources instead of innovation, 
these  approaches  will  make  us  poor  collectively,  and 
they  are  more  likely  to  lead  to  conflict.  The  stark 
contrast  between,  say,  the  success  of  the  Republic  of 
Korea and the wasteland of North Korea shows that the 
central planned control of the economy is a dead end.
But  I  do  believe  there  is  another  path,  one  that 
fuels  growth  and  innovation  and  offers  the  clearest 
route  to  individual  opportunity  and  national  success. 
It does not require succumbing to a soulless capitalism 
that  benefits  only  the  few,  but  rather  recognizes  that 
economies are more successful when we close the gap 
between  rich  and  poor  and  growth  is  broadly  based. 
That means respecting the rights of workers so that they 
can organize into independent unions and earn a living 
wage.  It  means  investing  in  our  people,  their  skills, 
their education, their capacity to take an idea and turn 
it into a business. It means strengthening the safety net 
that protects our people from hardship and allows them 
to take more risks to look for a new job or start a new 
venture.
These  are  the  policies  that  I  pursued  here  in 
the  United  States  and  with  clear  results.  American 
businesses have now created 15 million new jobs. After 
the  recession,  the  top  1  per  cent  of  Americans  were 
capturing more than 90 per cent of income growth, but 
today that is down to roughly half. Last year, poverty 
in this country fell at the fastest rate in nearly 50 years. 
With  further  investment  in  infrastructure  and  early 
childhood education and basic research, I am confident 
that such progress will continue.
So just as I pursued these measures here at home, 
so the United States has worked with many nations to 
curb the excesses of capitalism, not to punish wealth, 
but to prevent repeated crises that can destroy it. That is 
why we have worked with other nations to create higher 
and clearer standards for banking and taxation, because 
a  society  that  asks  less  of  oligarchs  than  of  ordinary 
citizens will rot from within. 
That is why we have pushed for transparency and 
cooperation  in  rooting  out  corruption  and  tracking 
illicit dollars, because markets create more jobs when 
they are fuelled by hard work and not the capacity to 
extort and bribe. That is why we have worked to reach 
trade agreements that raise labour standards and raise 
environmental  standards,  as  we  have  done  with  the 
Trans-Pacific Partnership, so that the benefits are more 
broadly shared.
Just as we benefit by combating inequality within 
our  countries,  so  I  believe  advanced  economies  still 
need to do more to close the gap between rich and poor 
nations around the globe. This is difficult politically. It 
is difficult to spend on foreign assistance, but I do not 
believe this is charity. For a small fraction of what we 
spent on the war in Iraq, we could support institutions 
so that fragile States do not collapse in the first place 
and invest in emerging economies that become markets 
for our goods. It is not just the right thing to do; it is the 
smart thing to do.
That is why we need to follow through on our efforts 
to combat climate change. If we do not act boldly, the 
bill that could come due will be mass migrations, cities 
submerged, nations displaced, food supplies decimated 
and conflicts borne of despair. The Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change gives us a framework to act, but only 
if we scale up our ambitions. There must be a sense of 
urgency about bringing the Agreement into force and 
helping poorer countries leapfrog destructive forms of 
energy.
For  the  wealthiest  countries,  therefore,  a  green 
climate  fund  should  be  just  the  beginning.  We  need 
to  invest  in  research  and  provide  market  incentives 
to  develop  new  technologies  and  then  make  those 
technologies  accessible  and  affordable 
for  poor 
countries. Only then can we continue lifting all people 
up from poverty without condemning our children to a 
planet beyond their capacity to repair it.
We  therefore  need  new  models  for  the  global 
marketplace, models that are inclusive and sustainable. 
In  the  same  way,  we  need  models  of  governance  that 
are  inclusive  and  accountable  to  ordinary  people.  I 
recognize that not every country in this Hall is going to 
follow the same model of governance. I do not think that 
America can or should impose our system of government 
on other countries, but there appears to be a growing 
contest  between  authoritarianism  and  liberalism  right 
now. I want everybody to understand, I am not neutral 
in that contest. I believe in a liberal political order, an 
order built not just through elections and representative 
government, but also through respect for human rights 
16-29296
15/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
and  civil  society  and  independent  judiciaries  and  the 
rule of law.
I  know  that  some  countries  that  now  recognize 
the power of free markets still reject the model of free 
societies. Perhaps those of us who have been promoting 
democracy  feel  somewhat  discouraged  since  the  end 
of  the  cold  war,  because  we  have  learned  that  liberal 
democracy will not just wash across the globe in a single 
wave. It turns out that building accountable institutions 
is  hard  work,  the  work  of  generations.  The  gains  are 
often  fragile.  Sometimes  we  take  one  step  forward 
and  then  two  steps  back.  In  countries  held  together 
by  borders  drawn  by  colonial  Powers,  with  ethnic 
enclaves and tribal divisions, politics and elections can 
sometimes appear to be a zero-sum game.
So, given the difficulty in forging true democracy 
in the face of these pressures, it is no surprise that some 
argue that the future favours the strong man, a top-down 
model, rather than strong democratic institutions. But I 
believe this thinking is wrong. I believe that the road of 
true democracy remains the better path. I believe that, 
in  the  twenty-first  century,  economies  can  only  grow 
to a certain point until they need to open up, because 
entrepreneurs  need  to  access  information  in  order  to 
invent, young people need a global education in order 
to thrive, independent media needs to check the abuses 
of  power.  Without  this  evolution,  the  expectations  of 
people  will  ultimately  not  be  met.  Suppression  and 
stagnation  will  set  in.  And  history  shows  that  strong 
men are then left with two paths: permanent crackdown, 
which sparks strife at home, or scapegoating enemies 
abroad, which can lead to war.
I will admit that my belief that Governments should 
serve  the  individual  and  not  the  other  way  around  is 
shaped by America’s story. Our nation began with the 
promise  of  freedom  that  applied  only  to  the  few,  but 
because of our democratic Constitution, because of our 
Bill of Rights, because of our ideals, ordinary people 
were  able  to  organize  and  march  and  protest.  And 
ultimately  those  ideals  won  out  and  opened  doors  for 
women, minorities and workers in ways that made our 
economy more productive and turned our diversity into 
a strength. It gave innovators the chance to transform 
every area of human endeavour. It made it possible for 
someone like me to be elected President of the United 
States.
So,  yes,  my  views  are  shaped  by  the  specific 
experiences of America, but I do not think this story is 
unique to America. Look at the transformation that has 
taken  place  in  countries  as  different  as  Japan,  Chile, 
Indonesia  and  Botswana.  The  countries  that  have 
succeeded  are  ones  in  which  people  feel  they  have  a 
stake. In Europe, the progress of those countries in the 
former Soviet bloc that embraced democracy stand in 
clear contrast to those that did not. After all, the people 
of Ukraine did not take to the streets because of some 
plot  imposed  from  abroad.  They  took  to  the  streets 
because their leadership was for sale and they had no 
recourse. They demanded change because they saw life 
get better for the people in the Baltics and in Poland, 
societies  that  were  more  liberal  and  democratic  and 
open than their own.
So  those  of  us  who  believe  in  democracy  need 
to  speak  out  forcefully  because  both  the  facts  and 
history, I believe, are on our side. That does not mean 
that  democracies  are  not  without  flaws.  It  does  mean 
that  the  cure  for  what  ails  our  democracies  is  greater 
engagement by our citizens, not less. Yes, in America, 
there is too much money in politics, too much entrenched 
partisanship, too little participation by citizens, in part 
because of a patchwork of laws that makes it harder to 
vote.
In Europe, a well-intentioned Brussels often became 
too isolated from the normal push-and-pull of national 
politics.  Too  often  in  capitals  decision-makers  have 
forgotten  that  democracy  needs  to  be  driven  by  civic 
engagement  from  the  bottom  up,  not  governance  by 
experts from the top down. So these are real problems. 
As leaders of democratic Governments make the case 
for democracy abroad, we had better strive harder to set 
a better example at home.
Moreover,  every  country  will  organize 
its 
Government  informed  by  centuries  of  history,  the 
circumstances of geography and the deeply held beliefs 
of its people. So I recognize that a traditional society may 
value unity and cohesion more than a diverse country 
like my own, which was founded upon what at the time 
was a radical idea, the idea of the liberty of individual 
human beings endowed with certain God-given rights. 
But  that  does  not  mean  that  ordinary  people  in  Asia 
or Africa or the Middle East somehow prefer arbitrary 
rule that denies them a voice in the decisions that can 
shape  their  lives.  I  believe  that  spirit  is  universal.  If 
anyone doubts the universality of that desire, listen to 
the  voices  of  young  people  everywhere  who  call  out 
for freedom and dignity and the opportunity to control 
their own lives.
16/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
irreconcilable  with  modernity. 
This leads me to the third thing we need to do. We 
must reject any forms of fundamentalism or racism or 
belief  in  ethnic  superiority  that  makes  our  traditional 
identities 
Instead, 
we  need  to  embrace  the  tolerance  that  results  from 
respect for all human beings. It is a truism that global 
integration  has  led  to  a  collision  of  cultures.  Trade, 
migration, the Internet — all these things can challenge 
and  unsettle  our  most  cherished  identities.  We  see 
liberal  societies  express  opposition  when  women 
choose to cover themselves. We see protests responding 
to  Western  newspaper  cartoons  that  caricature  the 
Prophet Mohammed.
In a world that left the age of empire behind, we see 
Russia attempting to recover lost glory through force. 
Asian  powers  debate  competing  claims  of  history. 
And  in  Europe  and  the  United  States,  we  see  people 
wrestle with concerns about immigration and changing 
demographics,  suggesting  that  somehow  people  who 
look  different  are  corrupting  the  character  of  our 
countries.  There  is  no  easy  answer  for  resolving  all 
these  social  forces,  and  we  must  respect  the  meaning 
that people draw from their own traditions, from their 
religion,  from  their  ethnicity,  from  their  sense  of 
nationhood.  But  I  do  not  believe  progress  is  possible 
if our desire to preserve our identities gives way to an 
impulse to dehumanize or dominate another group.
If  our  religion  leads  us  to  persecute  those  of 
another faith, if we jail or beat people who are gay, if 
our  traditions  lead  us  to  prevent  girls  from  going  to 
school,  if  we  discriminate  on  the  basis  of  race,  tribe 
or ethnicity, then the fragile bonds of civilization will 
fray. The world is too small. We are too packed together 
for us to be able to resort to those old ways of thinking. 
We  see  this  mindset  in  too  many  parts  of  the 
Middle  East.  So  much  of  the  collapse  in  order  there 
has been fuelled because leaders sought legitimacy, not 
because of policies or programmes, but by resorting to 
persecuting  political  opposition,  or  demonizing  other 
religious  sects,  by  narrowing  the  public  space  to  the 
mosque,  where  in  too  many  places  perversions  of  a 
great faith were tolerated. And these forces built up for 
years. They are now at work helping to fuel both Syria’s 
tragic civil war and the mindless medieval menace of 
the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL).  The 
mindset  of  sectarianism,  extremism,  blood-letting 
and retribution that has been taking place will not be 
quickly reversed.
If we are honest, we will understand that no external 
power  is  going  to  be  able  to  force  different  religious 
communities or ethnic communities to coexist for long. 
But I do believe we have to be honest about the nature 
of  these  conflicts.  Our  international  community  must 
continue to work with those who seek to build rather than 
to destroy. And there is a military component to that, 
which means being united and relentless in destroying 
networks like ISIL, which show no respect for human 
life. But it also means that in a place like Syria, where 
there is no ultimate military victory to be won, we are 
going to have to pursue the hard work of diplomacy that 
aims to stop the violence, deliver aid to those in need, 
and support those who pursue a political settlement and 
can see those who are not like themselves as worthy of 
dignity and respect. 
Across  the  region’s  conflicts,  we  have  to  insist 
that all parties recognize a common humanity and that 
nations end proxy wars that fuel disorder, because until 
basic  questions  are  answered  about  how  communities 
coexist, the embers of extremism will continue to burn, 
countless human beings will suffer — most of all in that 
region — and extremism will continue to be exported 
overseas. And the world is too small for us to simply be 
able  to  build  a  wall  and  prevent  it  from  affecting  our 
own societies.
And what is true in the Middle East is true for all 
of us. Surely religious traditions can be honoured and 
upheld while teaching young people science and math, 
rather than intolerance. Surely we can sustain our unique 
traditions  while  giving  women  their  full  and  rightful 
role  in  the  politics  and  economics  of  a  nation.  Surely 
we can rally our nations to solidarity while recognizing 
equal treatment for all communities — whether it is a 
religious  minority  in  Myanmar  or  an  ethnic  minority 
in Burundi or a racial minority right here in the United 
States.  And  surely,  Israelis  and  Palestinians  will  be 
better off if Palestinians reject incitement and recognize 
the  legitimacy  of  Israel,  and  Israel  recognizes  that  it 
cannot permanently occupy and settle Palestinian land. 
We all have to do better as leaders in tamping down, 
rather than encouraging, a notion of identity that leads 
us to diminish others.
And  this  leads  me  to  the  fourth  and  final  thing 
we  need  to  do,  and  that  is  sustain  our  commitment 
to  international  cooperation  rooted  in  the  rights  and 
responsibilities of nations. As President of the United 
States,  I  know  that  for  most  of  human  history,  power 
has  not  been  unipolar.  The  end  of  the  Cold  War  may 
16-29296
17/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
have led too many to forget this truth. I have noticed 
as President that, at times, both America’s adversaries 
and  some  of  our  allies  believe  that  all  problems  were 
either  caused  by  Washington  or  could  be  solved  by 
Washington,  and  perhaps  too  many  in  Washington 
believed that as well.
But I believe that America has been a rare super-
Power in human history insofar as it has been willing 
to think beyond narrow self-interest, that while we have 
made  our  share  of  mistakes  over  these  last  25  years 
–  and  I  have  acknowledged  some  –  we  have  strived, 
sometimes at great sacrifice, to align better our actions 
with  our  ideals.  And  as  a  consequence,  I  believe  we 
have been a force for good. 
We  have  secured  allies.  We  have  acted  to  protect 
the  vulnerable.  We  have  supported  human  rights  and 
welcomed scrutiny of our own actions. We have bound 
our power to international laws and institutions. When 
we have made mistakes, we have tried to acknowledge 
them. We have worked to roll back poverty, hunger and 
disease beyond our borders, not just within our borders. 
I am proud of that. But I also know that we cannot 
do this alone. And I believe that if we are to meet the 
challenges of this century, we are all going to have to 
do more to build up international capacity. We cannot 
escape the prospect of nuclear war unless we all commit 
to stopping the spread of nuclear weapons and pursuing 
a  world  without  them.  When  Iran  agrees  to  accept 
constraints  on  its  nuclear  programme,  that  enhances 
global security and enhances Iran’s ability to work with 
other  nations.  On  the  other  hand,  when  North  Korea 
tests a bomb that endangers all of us. And any country 
that breaks this basic bargain must face consequences. 
And those nations with these weapons, like the United 
States, have a unique responsibility to pursue the path 
of reducing our stockpiles and reaffirming basic norms, 
like the commitment to never test them again.
We cannot combat a disease like zika that recognizes 
no borders – mosquitos do not respect walls – unless we 
make permanent the same urgency that we brought to 
bear against Ebola – by strengthening our own systems 
of public health, by investing in cures, rolling back the 
root  causes  of  disease  and  helping  poorer  countries 
develop their public health infrastructures. 
We  can  only  eliminate  extreme  poverty  if  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  that  we  have  set  are 
more than words on paper. Human ingenuity now gives 
us the capacity to feed the hungry and give all of our 
children – including our girls – the education that is the 
foundation for opportunity in our world. But we have to 
put our money where our mouths are.  And we can only 
realize  the  promise  of  this  institution’s  founding  –  to 
replace the ravages of war with cooperation – if powerful 
nations  like  my  own  accept  constraints.  Sometimes  I 
am criticized in my own country for professing a belief 
in international norms and multilateral institutions. But 
I  am  convinced  that  in  the  long  run,  giving  up  some 
freedom of action – not giving up our ability to protect 
ourselves  or  pursue  our  core  interests,  but  binding 
ourselves  to  international  rules  over  the  long  term  – 
enhances our security. And I think that is not true just 
for us. 
If Russia continues to interfere in the affairs of its 
neighbours, it may be popular at home and it may fuel 
nationalist  fervour  for  a  time,  but  over  time  it  is  also 
going to diminish its stature and make its borders less 
secure. In the South China Sea, a peaceful resolution of 
disputes offered by law will mean far greater stability 
than the militarization of a few rocks and reefs.
We are all stakeholders in this international system, 
and  it  calls  upon  all  of  us  to  invest  in  the  success  of 
institutions to which we belong. And the good news is 
that many nations have shown what kind of progress is 
possible when we make those commitments. Consider 
what we have accomplished at the United Nations over 
the past few years.  Together, we mobilized some 50,000 
additional  troops  for  United  Nations  peacekeeping, 
making them nimble, better equipped, better prepared 
to  deal  with  emergencies.  Together  we  established  an 
Open  Government  Partnership  so  that,  increasingly, 
transparency empowers more and more people around 
the  globe.  And  together,  now,  we  have  to  open  our 
hearts and do more to help refugees who are desperate 
for a home.
We  should  all  welcome  the  pledges  of  increased 
assistance that have been made at this General Assembly 
gathering. I will be discussing that more this afternoon, 
but we have to follow through, even when the politics are 
hard, because, in the eyes of innocent men and women 
and children who, through no fault of their own, have 
had to flee everything that they know, everything that 
they love, we have to have the empathy to see ourselves. 
We  have  to  imagine  what  it  would  be  like  for  our 
family,  for  our  children,  if  the  unspeakable  happened 
to  us.  And  we  should  all  understand  that,  ultimately, 
our  world  will  be  more  secure  if  we  are  prepared  to 
help those in need and the nations that are carrying the 
18/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
largest  burden  with  respect  to  accommodating  these 
refugees.
the fates of other human beings on the other side of the 
world.
There are a lot of nations right now that are doing 
the right thing, but many nations — particularly those 
blessed with wealth and the benefits of geography — that 
can  do  more  to  offer  a  hand,  even  if  they  also  insist 
that  refugees  who  come  to  our  countries  have  to  do 
more  to  adapt  to  the  customs  and  conventions  of  the 
communities that are now providing them a home.
Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  I  recognize  that 
history tells a different story than the one that I have 
talked  about  here  today.  There  is  a  much  darker  and 
more cynical view of history that we can adopt. Human 
beings are too often motivated by greed and by power. 
Big countries for most of history have pushed smaller 
ones  around.  Tribes,  ethnic  groups  and  nation  States 
have  very  often  found  it  most  convenient  to  define 
themselves by what they hate and not just those ideas 
that bind them together. 
Time and again, human beings have believed that 
they finally arrived at a period of enlightenment only 
to then repeat cycles of conflict and suffering. Perhaps 
that is our fate. We have to remember that the choices 
of  individual  human  beings  led  to  repeated  world 
war, but we also have to remember that the choices of 
individual human beings created the United Nations so 
that a war like that would never happen again. Each of 
us as leaders and each nation can choose to reject those 
who  appeal  to  our  worst  impulses  and  embrace  those 
who appeal to our best, for we have shown that we can 
choose a better history.
Sitting  in  a  prison  cell,  a  young  Martin  Luther 
King, Jr., wrote: 
“Human  progress  never  rolls  on  the  wheels  of 
inevitability;  it  comes  through  the  tireless  efforts 
of men willing to be co-workers with God.” 
And during the course of these eight years, as I have 
travelled to many nations represented here, I have seen 
that spirit in our young people, who are more educated 
and  more  tolerant,  more  inclusive,  more  diverse  and 
more  creative  than  our  generation;  who  are  more 
empathetic  and  compassionate  towards  their  fellow 
human  beings  than  previous  generations.  And,  yes, 
some  of  that  comes  with  the  idealism  of  youth,  but  it 
also comes with young people’s access to information 
about  other  peoples  and  places  —  an  understanding 
unique in human history that their future is bound with 
I  think  of  the  thousands  of  health-care  workers 
from around the world who volunteered to fight Ebola. 
I remember the young entrepreneurs I met who are now 
starting new businesses in Cuba, or the parliamentarians 
who used to be just a few years ago political prisoners 
in Myanmar. I think of the girls who have braved taunts 
or violence just to go to school in Afghanistan, and the 
university students who started programmes online to 
reject the extremism of organizations like ISIL. I draw 
strength from the young Americans — entrepreneurs, 
activists,  soldiers,  new  citizens  —  who  are  remaking 
our  nation  once  again,  and  who  are  unconstrained  by 
old  habits  and  old  conventions  and  unencumbered  by 
what is, but are instead ready to seize what ought to be.
My own family is made up of the flesh and blood 
and  traditions  and  cultures  and  faiths  from  a  lot  of 
different parts of the world — just as America has been 
built by immigrants from every shore. And in my own 
life  in  this  country,  and  as  President,  I  have  learned 
that our identities do not have to be defined by putting 
someone  else  down,  but  can  be  enhanced  by  lifting 
somebody else up. They do not have to be defined in 
opposition to others, but rather by a belief in liberty and 
equality and justice and fairness. 
And  the  embrace  of  these  principles  as  universal 
does not weaken my particular pride in or my particular 
love  for  America  —  it  strengthens  it.  My  belief  that 
these  ideals  apply  everywhere  does  not  lessen  my 
commitment to helping those who look like me, or pray 
as I do, or pledge allegiance to my flag. But my faith 
in those principles does force me to expand my moral 
imagination and to recognize that I can best serve my 
own people and I can best look after my own daughters 
by making sure that my actions seek what is right for 
all people and all children, and other people’s daughters 
and sons. 
This  is  what  I  believe  —  that  all  of  us  can  be 
co-workers  with  God.  And  our  leadership,  and  our 
Governments,  and  the  United  Nations  should  reflect 
this irreducible truth.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America for the statement he has just made. 
16-29296
19/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
Mr.  Barack  Obama,  President  of  the  United 
States of America, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall. 
Address by Mr. Andrej Kiska, President of the 
Slovak Republic
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Slovak Republic.
Mr. Andrej Kiska, President of the Slovak Republic, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Andrej Kiska, President of the Slovak 
Republic, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Kiska:  Many  world  leaders  care  more 
about  retaining  power  than  improving  the  lives  of 
their  people.  Those  words  of  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  were  recently  addressed  to  us,  the  people 
in  this  Hall.  We  who  are  joined  here  are  incredibly 
privileged. Our job enables us to be in touch with the 
most successful and the most miserable. We can meet 
individuals with remarkable destinies and also the poor 
whose daily routine is to fight for a piece of bread or a 
bottle of clean water to stay alive. Each of them trusts 
that  we  will  be  able  to  understand  the  scope  of  their 
problems. They hope that we will never set our personal 
interests over the needs of our people, our countries and 
our planet.
Last year’s decision of the international community 
to  transform  the  world  for  good  —  to  leave  no  one 
behind  —  was  a  clear  and  ambitious  way  of  how  to 
address  these  needs.  We  are  also  perfectly  aware  of 
the nature of the challenges awaiting us to decarbonize 
the  economy,  to  promote  inclusive  and  sustainable 
development. But too many people tend to be pessimistic 
when it comes to setting grand global goals. Seemingly, 
there are more than enough reasons for their negativity, 
as  we  witness  wars,  terror  and  suffering.  We  see  the 
damaging  consequences  some  of  our  actions  have  on 
the planet and the people. And we can see them online, 
as new technologies bring us closer than ever to each 
other. 
In  the  interconnected  world  of  social  networks, 
bad  news  travels  especially  fast.  Sometimes  it  is 
accompanied  by 
lies,  propaganda  and  dangerous 
ideologies aimed at manipulating the public, spreading 
hate  and  frustration,  and  creating  a  fearful  picture  of 
the globalized world falling apart. Maybe that is one of 
the reasons why so many people are sceptical about the 
global development goals and our ability to deliver, and 
why we often forget that humankind has an impressive 
track record when it comes to making the world a better 
place. Global poverty has been halved in the past two 
decades.  People  fight  fewer  wars  and  commit  fewer 
homicides. Many more men and women have access to 
health  care  and  more  girls  attend  schools  than  at  any 
time in the past.
I am sure that we are more than capable of dealing 
with  such  challenges  as  poverty,  hunger,  diseases, 
injustice and discrimination. With the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development, we have the best means in the 
history to make life on the planet as good as it gets. The 
success of the new Agenda will not be possible without 
efficient  international  cooperation  and  coordination, 
backed by United Nations institutions. Success will be 
not possible without us, the people in this Hall. At the 
same  time,  we  should  not  forget  about  our  very  own 
homework — to win the hearts, minds and trust of our 
people. 
communication 
The world has become smaller due to globalization 
and  modern 
technologies.  The 
problems  our  world  faces  have  become  more  global 
and  intertwined.  Yet  our  social  instincts  have  often 
remained local, and our sense of responsibility is often 
limited by our national borders. There is a real danger 
that  many  of  us  thought  we  would  not  see  spreading 
again. It is the rise of nationalism, extremism, racism 
and intolerance in many parts of the world. I am certain 
that  responsible  leaders  need  to  address  those  dark 
moods  in  our  societies,  because  those  moods  are  the 
ultimate enemy of humankind — the enemy responsible 
for  the  worst  misery  and  bloodbath  in  our  modern 
history.
One of our most obvious duties as political leaders 
is,  without  doubt,  to  provide  for  and  preserve  peace 
and  development.  We  have  established  many  useful 
institutions to progress in that effort. However, we are 
witnessing the largest crisis of displacement since the 
Second  World  War.  There  is  no  need  for  me  to  recall 
the  worrying  number  of  refugees.  We  hear  those 
numbers  so  often  that  sometimes  we  forget  that  this 
is not a numbers game. As His Holiness Pope Francis 
reminds us, migrants and refugees are not pawns on the 
chessboard  of  humankind.  They  are  children,  fathers 
and mothers — real men and women.
20/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
Every  political  misunderstanding  and  failure  to 
find solutions leads to more people without a roof over 
their  head,  more  families  separated  and  more  hungry 
children.  It  means  greater  temptation  to  set  people 
against each other and arouse fear among them. We may 
have different starting positions, different experiences 
and even different points of view on the problem, but we 
all have to understand that refugees need our empathy 
and  our  help.  I  strongly  and  truly  believe  that  it  is  a 
moral duty of every successful, modern country to help. 
It is a moral duty of any true political leader to think 
seriously about how to help those fleeing violence and 
death. Let us be honest here and again ask ourselves the 
question  raised  by  the  Secretary-General.  Are  we  all 
doing enough to improve the lives of people in need, or 
are we more concerned about retaining our power? Are 
we here to serve or to be served?
Our commitment to a just and safe world is tested 
as  we  mourn  with  the  families  of  the  victims  of 
terrorism, and as we struggle to wrap our minds around 
that source of human suffering. When a terrorist group 
enslaves,  murders  and  takes  hope  from  men,  women 
and  children,  it  is  not  a  single  nation’s  problem.  It  is 
an attack on our very core — on our humanity. It is an 
attempt  to  kill  goodness  in  us.  Terrorists  do  not  care 
about  dozens  or  hundreds  of  innocent  victims.  They 
target hundreds of millions of the hearts and minds of 
spectators around the world to cause them to fear and to 
hate, encourage hostility among nations and fulfil their 
sick vision of the clash of civilizations.
We need to stay strong in our societies and true to 
our  core  values  and  culture  of  mutual  respect,  peace 
and  non-violence.  We  can  see  that  it  is  not  hard  to 
make people fear. Sadly, it is not hard to make people 
hate.  But  we  must  not  respond  by  judging  people  by 
the colour of their skin or their choice of worship. We 
need to halt the growing anger, prejudice and hostility 
towards  different  religions.  True  leadership  brings 
hope,  reinforces  trust  and  offers  sustainable  solutions 
for safety and peaceful coexistence.
In  the  words  of  a  well-known  catchphrase,  we 
should  think  globally  and  act  locally.  The  crisis  in 
Ukraine  —  in  the  part  of  the  world  where  I  come 
from  —  has  entered  its  third  year.  Slovakia  is  very 
concerned about the destabilization of a neighbouring 
country  and  repeated  violence  in  the  region.  I  would 
like  once  again  to  firmly  call  for  tangible  progress 
in  reaching  a  settlement  of  the  conflict.  I  believe  the 
Minsk agreements remain the only viable way out of the 
crisis. Slovakia is ready to continue to assist Ukraine in 
securing a stable, prosperous and democratic future for 
all of its citizens.
Not  long  from  now,  the  General  Assembly  will 
appoint a new Secretary-General of the United Nations. 
This year, the process of selecting the next Secretary-
General  has  been  more  consultative,  transparent  and 
open than ever before. My country has the extraordinary 
privilege of being part of the process as we have fielded 
our own candidate. I wish to take this opportunity to 
express my gratitude and appreciation for the Member 
States’  continued  support  as  we  approach  the  final 
stages  of  the  selection  process.  Their  support  also 
proves  that  candidates  from  our  region  have  a  lot  to 
offer in terms of potential, capabilities, knowledge and 
accomplishments.
We are still living in strange, contradictory times. 
We  can  upload  our  personal  medical  data  for  an 
examination by a physician on the opposite side of the 
globe,  and  yet  16,000  children  die  every  day,  mostly 
from  preventable  or  treatable  causes.  We  are  using 
autonomous, self-driving cars, but millions of kids still 
cannot  find  their  way  into  a  classroom.  Our  phones, 
powered by artificial intelligence, are speaking to us, 
but one in 10 people on this planet does not have access 
to drinkable water.
With all our resources, all our innovative power and 
all our unprecedented ways of knowledge-sharing, we 
cannot  ignore  the  opportunities  that  exist  to  increase 
global  prosperity,  freedom  and  the  dignity  of  human 
beings. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
has been crafted on the basis of our successes and our 
experience. It is our task to drive the necessary change 
to make the world a more prosperous, healthy, inclusive 
and  safe  place.  It  is  our  task  to  share  the  wealth  of 
our planet.
Yes, times are uncertain, but I do believe that we can 
succeed. As one of the Slovak priests who spent years 
in prison during the totalitarian period of my country’s 
history once said, “I do not know what the future will 
bring, but I know now how I will act.” He could say this 
because he was always guided by his values.
We can succeed too when we let our values guide 
us through difficult times — our values of humanity, 
solidarity  and  empathy  —  and  when  we,  the  political 
leaders with the privilege and power of agenda-setting, 
will not give up the battle for the hearts and minds of 
our people to remain open to humanity, solidarity and 
16-29296
21/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
hope, only then can our world prosper. Only then will 
we truly leave no one behind.
in  September  2015,  and  in  the  signing  of  the  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change, in April 2016.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Slovak Republic for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr. Andrej Kiska, President of the Slovak Republic, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. David Arthur Granger, President 
of the Republic of Guyana
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Guyana.
Mr.  David  Arthur  Granger,  President  of  the 
Republic of Guyana, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  David  Arthur  Granger,  President  of 
the Republic of Guyana, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President Granger: The Co-operative Republic of 
Guyana congratulates you, Mr. Peter Thomson, on your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-first session. The election of a representative of 
Fiji, a small island developing State, to preside over the 
General Assembly at this session is especially gratifying. 
The  choice  of  theme  for  our  general  debate  —  “The 
Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a  universal  push  to 
transform our world” — is most appropriate.
We  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft, 
outgoing  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
historic  seventieth  session,  for  his  guidance  of  the 
Assembly over the past year.
Guyana 
commends 
Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  for  his  stellar  stewardship  of  the  United 
Nations  during  his  decennium.  The  international 
community  owes  him  an  enormous  debt  of  gratitude 
for  the  earnest  efforts  he  has  indefatigably  exerted  to 
alleviate  human  distress,  promote  peace  and  sustain 
development around the world.
The  Secretary-General’s  courageous  campaign  to 
combat  the  adverse  effects  of  climate  change  and  his 
commitment  to  sustainable  development  have  been 
transformative. His labours bore fruit in the adoption 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
The  2030  Agenda  and  the  Paris  Agreement  have 
had  a  massive  and  undeniable  impact  on  the  manner 
in  which  the  world  manages  the  environment.  The 
2030  Agenda  and  the  Paris  Agreement  are  evidence 
of  environmental  common  sense.  They  are  excellent 
examples of the sort of collective action most likely to 
ensure  a  sustainable  future  and  safety  for  the  planet. 
They are harbingers of hope for everyone, everywhere, 
forever.  The  Secretary-General’s 
leadership  has 
irreversibly  led  the  United  Nations  further  along  a 
green path. We thank him heartily.
to  conquering 
Guyana  is  part  of  this  global  green  movement. 
Our  natural  assets,  our  commitment  to  sustainable 
development,  our  contribution 
the 
adverse effects of climate change and our collaboration 
with the international community in seeking solutions 
to  global  threats  have  distinguished  us  an  emergent 
green  State.  We  are  a  State  that  will  ensure  a  secure 
future for our people in the pursuit of a green economy. 
We are a State that is proud of its place as a reliable and 
cooperative  partner  in  international  efforts  to  protect 
the earth’s environment.
Guyana  recognizes  the  interlocking  objectives 
of  the  Agenda  and  the  Agreement.  It  realizes  that 
the  establishment  of  a  green  State  is  consistent  with 
building climate resilience while mitigating the effects 
of  climate  change.  Guyana  promises  to  continue 
to  work  towards  the  Agenda’s  goals,  particularly 
by  contributing 
in  global 
temperatures,  and  to  work  towards  a  green  path  of 
development  that  is  in  accord  with  the  Agreement’s 
nationally determined commitments.
increases 
to 
limiting 
Guyana  serendipitously  stands  at  the  centre  of 
the  Guiana  Shield,  one  of  the  world’s  last  remaining 
spheres of virgin tropical rainforest. The Guiana Shield 
spans an area of 2.7 million square kilometres, an area 
larger  than  Greenland,  and  it  is  shared  by  six  South 
American  countries  and  territories  —  parts  of  Brazil 
and Colombia, all of Guyana, all of French Guiana, all 
of Suriname and part of Venezuela. Guyana, as a part 
of that Shield, is a net carbon sink. A green canopy of 
rainforest envelops more than 85 per cent of our land 
mass,  the  second  highest  percentage  forest  cover  on 
earth. Guyana is pursuing a green path so as to better 
understand how to protect its precious biodiversity and 
sustainably manage its complex ecosystems.
22/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
Guyana made a covenant with the world to be an 
exemplar  of  green  growth  in  1989,  three  years  before 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Environment  and 
Development,  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  in  1992.  We  made  a 
gift  to  the  prospect  of  sustainable  development  and 
to  the  project  of  protecting  our  environment  through 
a  generous  grant  of  371,000  hectares  of  our  pristine 
forests,  to  be  used  as  an  international  model  for 
research, training and the development of technologies 
that will promote the conservation and the sustainable 
and  equitable  use  of  tropical  rainforests  in  a  manner 
that  will  lead  to  lasting  ecological,  economic  and 
social benefits for the people of Guyana and the world 
in  general.  The  Iwokrama  International  Centre  for 
Rainforest  Conservation  and  Development,  located 
in  the  centre  of  our  country  and  at  the  heart  of  the 
Guiana Shield, survives and thrives as a testament to 
Guyana’s commitment to sustainable development and 
environmental conservation.
Guyana  is  an  important  partner  in  the  global 
environmental movement. It entered into an agreement 
with the Kingdom of Norway to provide the world with 
a relevant, replicable model of how the United Nations 
Programme on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation 
and Forest Degradation and the Role of Conservation, 
Sustainable Management of Forests and Enhancement 
of  Forest  Carbon  Stocks  in  Developing  Countries 
(REDD-plus mechanism), the mechanism for reducing 
emissions  from  deforestation  and  forest  degradation, 
can align the development objectives of forest countries 
with the world’s need to combat climate change. It has 
also entered into agreements with the Kingdom of the 
Netherlands,  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany,  Japan 
and other States, and international organizations.
Guyana  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  Goal  15 
of  the  Agenda  under  which  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations pledge to protect, restore and promote 
sustainable  use  of  terrestrial  ecosystems,  sustainably 
manage  forests,  combat  desertification  and  halt  and 
reverse land degradation and biodiversity loss. Guyana 
is  improving  the  management  of  its  ecosystems  and 
natural  resources  in  order  to  conserve  its  forests  and 
their rich biodiversity. We will fulfil our obligation under 
the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions set 
forth in the Paris Agreement.
students  from  the  Caribbean  and  around  the  world  to 
come  to  our  country  to  increase  their  knowledge  of 
vital ecosystems and share in the study of the Guiana 
Shield and its amazing biodiversity.
Goal  13  of  the  Agenda  calls  for  urgent  action  to 
combat  climate  change  and  its  impact.  This  goal 
envisages and encourages international cooperation to 
reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and abate the adverse 
impact  of  climate  change.  The  Agreement  obligates 
Member States to take action to limit the temperature 
increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels and foster 
climate  resilience  and  low  greenhouse-gas  emissions 
development  in  a  manner  that  does  not  threaten 
food production.
Guyana is developing a comprehensive emissions-
reduction  programme  as  part  of  its  responsibility  to 
contribute to global solutions in the face of the threat 
of  climate  change.  We  will  set  aside  an  additional 
2  million  hectares  of  our  territory  for  conservation 
purposes.  Guyana  is  pursuing  a  low-carbon  growth 
trajectory to enhance its contribution to the campaign 
against climate change through the preservation of its 
forests, within the ambit of the REDD-plus mechanism. 
It  will  contribute  up  to  48.7  million  metric  tonnes  of 
carbon-dioxide  equivalents  to  the  global  mitigation 
effort, through an avoided-emissions programme.
The Agreement on climate change and the Agenda 
both  emphasize  the  importance  of  financial  flows  in 
supporting the efforts of States pursuing a green path 
to development, so that they can meet their adaptation 
and mitigation obligations and implement the Intended 
Nationally  Determined  Contributions.  I  must  state, 
however,  that  all  our  efforts  —  nationally,  regionally 
and  globally  —  for  the  advancement  of  development 
in  an  environment  of  peace  and  stability,  are  being 
challenged by the territorial ambitions of our neighbour, 
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
Guyana  celebrated  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
its  independence  this  year.  Regrettably,  Venezuela 
acknowledged  this  anniversary  by  reasserting,  on 
26  May,  our  independence  day,  its  repudiation  of  a 
border treaty that it had solemnly signed 117 years ago 
and ratified and respected for over 60 of the years since 
then.
Guyana will continue its research by establishing an 
international institute for biodiversity at the Iwokrama 
International  Centre  for  Rainforest  Conservation  and 
Development.  That  institute  will  allow  scientists  and 
I addressed the Assembly last year and warned of the 
danger that Venezuela posed to the peace and security 
of our region due not to its internal instability, but to its 
external assault on Guyana’s sovereignty and territorial 
16-29296
23/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
integrity (see A/70/PV.16). I placed my hopes in the fact 
that the process for the final resolution of Venezuela’s 
unworthy territorial claims rested now in the hands of 
the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Since my 
address last year, Venezuela has used every means to 
stall, as it has intensified its aggression against Guyana 
and  thwarted  all  of  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  to 
pursue a way forward, at least in terms of a process that 
would lead to a final resolution of the controversy.
Guyana  stands  ready  to  have  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  reach  a  final  determination  on  the 
matter.  We  will  work  resolutely  with  the  Secretary-
General  in  his  final  months  of  office,  and  with  his 
successor,  to  free  Guyana  from  this  surreal  burden. 
In  the  Geneva  Agreement  of  1966,  Venezuela  agreed 
that the Secretary-General would determine the means 
of settlement of this controversy, including by judicial 
settlement.  Yet  Venezuela  defies  his  every  effort  to 
fulfil that commitment.
The United Nations cannot be a dispassionate party 
to a threat to peace anywhere and to a challenge to the 
law  of  nations.  Venezuela’s  territorial  claim  is  such  a 
challenge. It strikes at the heart of the United Nations. 
It strikes at the heart of the United States trusteeship 
of  the  law  of  nations.  It  strikes  at  the  heart  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter,  which  the  Secretary-General 
is sworn to uphold. Guyana, a small State, must look to 
the United Nations for protection against threats to its 
security, for intervention, for peace and for respect for 
international law.
My  plea  for  international  understanding  of  our 
plight  has  nothing  to  do  with  Venezuela’s  internal 
situation.  The  ordinary  people  of  Venezuela  are  our 
sisters and brothers. Their pain touches our hearts, and 
we wish them early relief from their agony. However, 
Venezuela’s claims are a threat to Guyana’s existence 
as an independent nation. They are a scandalous revival 
of the disease of the conquistadores that once plagued 
Venezuela’s own history. They are a crime against our 
humanity, clothed in the verbiage of national honour.
I  also  wish  to  iterate  Guyana’s  ongoing  support, 
within the context of the preservation of sovereignty and 
its link with sustainable development, for the complete 
removal  of  the  commercial,  economic  and  financial 
blockade imposed by the United States against another 
Caribbean  country,  the  Republic  of  Cuba.  We  cannot 
commit to policies that transform our economies with 
a  view  to  providing  development  for  our  peoples  and 
not demonstrate the political will necessary to change 
systems that are in direct contradiction to those policies.
Guyana  is  on  a  path  to  becoming  a  green  State. 
However,  its  efforts  —  and  those  of  other  small 
States  —  will  be  derailed  unless  there  is  collective 
commitment  by  the  greater  part  of  the  international 
community to collaborate with those States determined 
to  pursue  a 
to 
sustainable  development  and  to  stopping  the  rise  of 
global temperatures.
low-emissions  path 
low-carbon, 
The road from Stockholm in 1972 to Paris in 2015 
has been long and difficult. However, the words of the 
Declaration  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the 
Human Environment remain as relevant in 2016 as they 
were 44 years ago, in 1972:
“A  point  has  been  reached  in  history  when 
we  must  shape  our  actions  throughout  the  world 
with  a  more  prudent  care  for  their  environmental 
consequences.  Through  ignorance  or  indifference 
we  can  do  massive  and  irreversible  harm  to  the 
earthly  environment  on  which  our  life  and  well-
being depend. Conversely, through fuller knowledge 
and wiser action, we can achieve for ourselves and 
our posterity a better life in an environment more in 
keeping with human needs and hopes... To defend 
and  improve  the  human  environment  for  present 
and  future  generations  has  become  an  imperative 
goal for mankind ...” (A/CONF./48/14/Rev.1, para. 
6).
The General Assembly at the seventy-first session 
now has the opportunity and the obligation to commit to 
measures to defend and improve the human environment 
for present and future generations, thereby making the 
road forward into the future an easier one for posterity. 
Venezuela’s  aggression  against  Guyana  should  not  be 
allowed to threaten our children’s future.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Guyana 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  David  Arthur  Granger,  President  of  the 
Republic of Guyana, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin 
Hamad Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Amir of the State of Qatar.
24/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, 
Amir  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Highness  Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad  Al-Thani, 
Amir of the State of Qatar, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
Sheikh  Al-Thani  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the  outset,  it  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  congratulate 
you, Sir, on assuming the duties of the President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  I  wish 
you every success in fulfilling your tasks. I also wish 
to  express  our  appreciation  to  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft 
for  his  efforts  during  his  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session.  I  also  wish  to 
extend our profound thanks to His Excellency Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon  for  the  efforts  he  has  undertaken  to  achieve 
United Nations goals during his tenure.
The  international  community  is  facing  many 
challenges  and  unresolved  regional  and  international 
crises  that  have  become  a  hindrance  to  regional  and 
international development and stability. Some countries 
continue  to  pursue  an  approach  with  actions  that  go 
beyond  the  framework  of  international  legitimacy 
against  the  backdrop  of  international  negligence  in 
the implementation of Security Council resolutions. It 
is  no  longer  possible  to  overlook  the  weakness  of  the 
United  Nations  legal  and  institutional  system  and  its 
inability in many cases to apply standards of justice and 
fairness in the functioning of its mechanisms. There is a 
persistent recurring pattern that marks all these crises: 
the  selectivity  of  the  Security  Council  in  addressing 
problems, especially when it comes to the use of force 
by countries in international relations.
After more than seven decades of Israeli occupation 
of Arab territories, the Palestinian cause is at standstill, 
waiting  for  a  just  solution.  The  Government  of  Israel 
has  not  only  rejected  the  resolutions  of  international 
legitimacy  and 
the  comprehensive  Arab  Peace 
Initiative,  but  it  also  seeks  to  impose  a  fait  accompli 
through long-term plans to build settlements in the West 
Bank and Jerusalem. It has founded its occupation on 
discrimination and racial segregation. It has established 
two  legal  systems  under  its  sovereignty  —  one  for 
the  occupiers  and  another  for  those  languishing 
under occupation.
Against the backdrop of the world’s silence and the 
Arab  States’  involvement  in  their  own  current  issues, 
Israel’s  leaders  may  believe  that  they  have  succeeded 
in  their  endeavour.  However,  they  have  utterly  failed 
to  resolve  the  issue.  The  Palestinian  people  are  now 
more devoted to their rights than ever. Furthermore, the 
Arab peoples cannot accept any kind of normalization 
of relations with Israel as long as Israel proceeds with 
the occupation and its related practices and before a just 
solution to the Palestinian cause is achieved.
Besides,  what  will  Israel  do  with  the  millions  of 
Palestinians who are living on their own land and are 
increasing in number and resourcefulness? The options 
are  clearly  narrowing.  Israel  has  either  to  opt  for  the 
two-State solution or to establish a system of apartheid. 
Does Israel really think that it could maintain a system 
of apartheid in the twenty-first century? Eliminating the 
occupation has become an urgent political and security 
prerequisite  and  an  international  obligation  towards 
a  people  whose  land  was  occupied  and  homeland 
confiscated  and  whose  suffering 
is  exacerbating 
the situation.
The Security Council bears a special responsibility 
to impose international legitimacy and consensus with 
respect to the negotiations on the basis of a two-State 
solution,  including  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian 
State,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  within  the 
pre-1967  borders.  Meanwhile, 
to 
cease  settlement  activities,  respect  the  legal  status  of 
Al-Quds, lift the unjust siege on the Gaza Strip and end 
the Israeli occupation of all occupied Arab territories, 
including the Syrian Golan.
is  necessary 
it 
In the past, from this very rostrum, we have warned 
that  inaction  in  addressing  crises  will  only  increase 
their  intensity  and  complexity  and  consequently  pose 
a threat to international security. Today, more than five 
years after the outbreak of the Syrian crisis and in the 
aftermath  of  the  destruction  of  most  of  Syria’s  cities 
by the Al-Assad regime, we are meeting again in this 
Hall. As a result of the crisis, the number of refugees 
has  doubled  and  the  quest  for  refuge  has  become 
transcontinental  in  scope.  Syria  is  now  importing 
terrorist  and  sectarian  organizations  and  militias  that 
pose a regional and international threat.
Everyone knows that the Syrian revolution started 
as a popular and peaceful uprising against a repressive 
dictatorial  regime  and  that  the  great  people  of  Syria 
face death or years of torture in prison if they attend 
16-29296
25/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
peaceful  demonstrations  against  the  regime.  During 
this  period,  the  Syrian  authorities  have  deliberately 
tried  to  turn  the  revolution  into  a  violent  one.  It  has 
also acted under the guise of political rhetoric to split 
the  Syrian  people  into  factions,  but  the  people  have 
responded with the chant, “the Syrian people are one”. 
In contrast, the regime’s declared slogan was “Al-Assad 
alone, or we will burn the country down”. Many people 
may  not  have  realized  that  this  slogan  is  the  de  facto 
project of the regime and remains its only programme.
Theoretically, the majority of the countries of the 
world have stood by the Syrian people, but in practical 
terms,  Syria  has  been  abandoned,  supported  only  by 
some  loyal  friends.  Red  lines  had  been  set  for  the 
regime, but it violated them, and those who set the red 
lines did nothing. The red lines continued to shift until 
the regime became aware that there were no limits on 
what it could do without accountability.
It is true that violent radical forces that have nothing 
to do with the objectives of the Syrian revolution have 
entered the Syrian arena, refuse to take up revolution’s 
banner and fight against the rebels more than against 
the regime. There have been many violations, but these 
phenomena, which have marred the revolution, cannot 
be  understood  without  also  considering  the  barbaric 
policy of repression applied by the Syrian regime and 
the inability of the international community to protect 
civilians  against  the  use  of  chemical  weapons,  bomb 
barrels and torture.
The  city  of  Daraa  presented  a  model  of  peaceful 
revolution, exemplified at the beginning by the tossing 
of flowers at soldiers, but after massacres claiming the 
lives  of  hundreds  of  innocent  people,  mostly  women 
and children, the city was forced, like other cities, to 
defend  itself  more  forcefully.  Since  then,  Daraa  has 
been  reeling  under  non-stop  shelling  and  a  starvation 
siege, despite the fact that it was never controlled by any 
radical  or  takfiri  organization,  and  its  revolutionaries 
have not committed any violations.
Why  then  are  the  inhabitants  of  Daraa  being 
displaced  while  the  international  community  does 
nothing? Why was no warning issued before the regime 
began  its  shelling  and  depopulation  efforts,  when 
warnings have been issued elsewhere, for example, prior 
to  the  recent  bombing  against  forces  in  Al-Hasakah 
province? We consider the latter warning to have been 
an appropriate one, but no analogous action was taken 
with respect to Daraa, Muadamiyat Al-Sham, Madaya, 
Al-Zabadani  or  other  towns  also  threatened  with 
displacement. Many Syrian citizens are wondering the 
same thing.
We  cannot  fool  ourselves  or  our  people  because 
it  is  unacceptable  that  the  will  of  the  international 
community is crippled when it comes to the perpetrators 
of  crimes  against  humanity.  It  is  simply  not  true  that 
it  was  impossible  to  protect  the  Syrian  people.  The 
international  community  has  allowed  illegal  military 
interventions  to  be  undertaken  to  overthrow  regimes 
in  our  region,  which  is  still  taking  its  toll  on  us. 
Unfortunately,  while  many  of  us  share  responsibility 
for that situation, the international community has not 
stepped in to protect a defenceless people, despite the 
fact that this people has proved time and again that it 
could change the regime on its own if they were protected 
by the international community from bombardment.
Putting  an  end  to  this  humanitarian  disaster  has 
become  a  political  and  moral  necessity.  The  Security 
Council has a historical and undeniable responsibility 
to  stop  the  bloodshed  of  the  Syrians  by  halting 
the  barbaric  bombings  and  blockades  of  cities,  by 
repatriating  the  displaced  and  by  taking  measures  to 
resume  the  political  process  within  the  framework  of 
resolution 2254 (2015) and decisions based on the first 
Geneva Convention, which call for the formation of a 
transitional  ruling  body  with  full  powers  to  meet  the 
aspirations of the Syrian people and maintain the unity 
and  sovereignty  of  Syria,  on  the  basis  of  equal  rights 
for all citizens of Syria, without discrimination on the 
basis of faith, creed, ethnicity or race.
The  Gulf  region  has  strategic  importance  at  both 
regional  and  global  levels.  This  region  is  undergoing 
several  crises  that  vary  widely  in  character  but  are 
similar  at  the  core.  Constructive  dialogue  must  be 
undertaken  if  solutions  to  them  are  to  be  found.  To 
achieve the desired result, dialogue between countries 
must be based on the principles of good-neighbourliness, 
mutual  respect  and  non-interference  in  the  affairs  of 
others. The success of dialogue among parties within a 
State, as we have seen in Iraq, requires giving priority 
to political and social consensus and strengthening the 
concept  of  full  and  equal  citizenship  before  the  law, 
leaving aside all forms of sectarianism.
With respect to Yemen, the State of Qatar renews 
its  support  for  the  return  of  legitimacy  as  the  only 
way  to  ensure  its  security,  unity  and  stability.  There 
is  no  doubt  that  the  negligence  of  the  international 
26/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
community in implementing resolutions of the Security 
Council,  especially  resolution  2216  (2015),  has  given 
some political forces in Yemen the opportunity to carry 
out  coup-related  actions  that  have  hampered  reaching 
the  desired  political  solution  that  would  satisfy  the 
Yemeni people’s yearning for unity and stability.
I take this opportunity to express our appreciation 
for  the  efforts  of  my  brother,  His  Highness  Sheikh 
Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Amir of the State 
of Kuwait, who has sponsored the Yemeni negotiations 
hosted  by  his  country.  We  will  continue  to  support 
the  Secretary-General’s  Special  Envoy  for  Yemen  as 
well as the international efforts undertaken to resume 
political consultations among Yemeni parties in order 
to reach a political settlement, in accordance with the 
Gulf  Cooperation  Council  Initiative,  the  outcomes  of 
the National Dialogue Conference and resolution 2216 
(2015).
Although  the  situation  in  Libya  is  still  turbulent, 
we  look  forward  to  restoring  stability  through  the 
efforts  of  the  Presidential  Council  and  the  present 
Government  backed  by  the  international  community. 
We  also  look  forward  to  confronting  terrorism  and 
tackling  its  serious  effects.  The  State  of  Qatar  has 
contributed to the success of the international political 
solution. We reaffirm our support for all efforts aimed 
at strengthening the Libyan national accord and warn 
that instability could deal a glancing blow to what has 
been achieved heretofore and undermine United Nations 
efforts aimed at promoting national reconciliation and 
led by the Security Council.
We are surprised to note that some countries support 
forces  in  Libya  that  have  rejected  the  international 
solution and are acting to thwart resolution 1970 (2011) 
by  force,  despite  the  fact  that  the  resolution  provides 
for  imposing  sanctions  on  such  forces.  Certain  forces 
have  placed  themselves  under  the  authority  of  the 
Presidential  Council  and  are  engaged  in  combating 
terrorism,  but  others  have  rejected  the  international 
solution and sought to exploit the volatile situation by 
occupying  oil-export  terminals  while  the  world  looks 
on, silent. Is this a proper way to encourage Libyans to 
fight terrorism?
The  terrorism  we  are  facing  is  a  threat  to 
our  peoples,  countries  and  economic  and  social 
achievements, thereby requiring that we intensify our 
efforts to combat it. All of us are mindful that success 
in countering this dangerous phenomenon is not easily 
reached, but it is not impossible either, especially when 
there is the political will to address the social roots of 
this abhorrent phenomenon. We need to understand the 
circumstances that, in an atmosphere of desperation and 
deadlocked perspectives, give rise to radical ideologies.
We  need  to  protect  the  young  people  who  are 
targeted by extremist groups. Fighting terrorism is not 
confined to the security dimension; rather, we need to 
go a step further and promote the values of tolerance, 
culture,  plurality  and  dialogue,  while  taking  into 
account the right of people to resist occupation, which 
is a right that has been enshrined in international laws, 
covenants and norms.
To restore our credibility, we must carefully define 
terrorism  and  diligently  stand  against  it,  if  we  are  to 
educate our young people and mobilize our communities 
against this scourge. The definition we choose should 
not vary according to the identity of the perpetrator or 
the victim or because of a particular political interest. 
We  have  seen  cases,  for  example,  where  a  certain 
organization,  misbranded  as  terrorist  when  it  was 
simply  a  political  adversary,  was  later  embraced  as  a 
friend when it became a temporary ally.
Distinctions should not be made about the lives of 
civilians,  whether  they  be  from  Istanbul,  Gaza,  New 
York or Aleppo. No life is more important or valuable 
than any other life. The double standards used to address 
this phenomenon, by linking terrorism to a certain faith 
or culture or by absolving Governments that engage in 
it from being described as terrorist, complicates efforts 
to uproot the phenomenon and reinforces pretexts being 
used by terrorists to justify their actions. In this context, 
and as a natural consequence of our policy of rejecting 
radicalism  and  terrorism  based  on  our  values  and 
culture and the teachings of the true Islamic religion, 
we reiterate our support for the efforts to eradicate the 
phenomenon  of  terrorism  that  are  undertaken  within 
the framework of international legitimacy.
Respect  for  and  the  protection  and  promotion  of 
human rights constitute one of the basic pillars of the 
United Nations Charter’s stated purposes and principles 
and are consistent with the Arab and Islamic principles 
and values that treasure humankind and honour it as a 
creation of almighty God. The State of Qatar is eager 
to  implement  its  obligations  at  both  the  national  and 
international levels to defend collective and individual 
rights  of  people  and  promote  human  rights  around 
the world.
16-29296
27/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
Accordingly, one of the most important challenges 
we must act upon today is that of protecting refugees. 
This  challenge  requires  cooperation  and  joint  action 
in  order  to  uproot  the  causes  of  forced  displacement. 
We  must  urgently  provide  aid  and  assistance  as  a 
humanitarian  duty  incumbent  upon  us  all.  Qatar’s 
development and relief contribution has reached more 
than  100  countries  worldwide,  and  we  continue  to 
coordinate  with  Governmental  and  non-governmental 
agencies to provide even more development and relief 
aid.
Qatar supports over 10 million children around the 
world  and  promotes  the  potential  of  some  1.2  million 
Arab young people, so as to empower them to be active 
and productive in their communities. Over the past five 
years since 2011, the value of the economic assistance 
provided by the State of Qatar has increased threefold 
to reach 13 billion Qatari riyals.
The State of Qatar will continue to be a venue for 
dialogue  and  conflict  resolution  by  peaceful  means. 
It  will  also  remain  committed  to  international  action, 
cooperation  and  partnership  within  the  framework  of 
the  efforts  of  the  international  community  to  counter 
shared humanitarian challenges.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Amir of the State of Qatar for the 
statement he has just made.
Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad  Al-Thani,  Amir  of  the 
State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Mr. El Haycen (Mauritania), Vice–President, took 
the Chair.
Address by Mr. Mauricio Macri, President of the 
Argentine Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Argentine Republic.
  Mr.  Mauricio  Macri,  President  of  the  Argentine 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mauricio 
Macri,  President  of  the  Argentine  Republic,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Macri (spoke in Spanish): It is an honour 
to  be  here  today  for  the  first  time  to  represent  the 
Argentine Republic before the General Assembly.
We are living in a time of great global transformation, 
where changes take place at an increasingly rapid pace 
and provide us with new opportunities. In the twenty-
first century we are faced with a continuous challenge, 
namely, that of adapting to the new realities of global 
interdependency. Building a modern international order 
is an ongoing task in which we are all protagonists.
The  principles  of  the  Organization  guide  us  to 
encourage  dialogue  and  cooperation  between  our 
countries  in  order  to  achieve  development,  peace  and 
international security. In the first 71 years of the United 
Nations, important advances have been made. However, 
there is still much to be done. The United Nations has 
proposed a horizon towards which we should advance. 
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  is  a 
goal that we should approach collectively.
I  am  proud  to  represent  a  country  that  has 
contributed  to  the  international  legal  framework, 
driving advances in human rights, humanitarian rights 
and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  conflicts.  With  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  in  mind,  it  makes  us 
proud that our Governmental priorities are in line with 
those of the international community. In Argentina, we 
have set ourselves three main objectives.
Our first goal is to move towards zero poverty. That 
means  becoming  a  country  with  equal  opportunities, 
where  our  children  can  shape  their  future  and  where 
every Argentinian is able to develop his or her potential. 
A  country  like  ours,  which  is  a  food–producing 
powerhouse, cannot accept the fact that there are people 
going hungry anywhere the world.
Our second goal is to defeat drug trafficking. The 
world drug problem, addiction and violence associated 
with  organized  crime  requires  that  we  work  together 
towards  a  comprehensive  agenda,  based  on  human 
rights and focused on both supply and demand.
the  rule  of 
Our  third  goal  is  to  unite  Argentinians  through 
the 
dialogue,  respect  for 
strengthening  of  democracy.  For  in  the  twenty-first 
century, the quality of political leadership is measured 
by the ability to build bridges and create trust. These 
are  elements  that  every  society  needs  to  properly 
function. Argentinians have chosen that path, namely, 
law  and 
28/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
that of trusting one another, engaging in dialogue and 
speaking honestly to each other.
An  important  step  in  this  direction  was  working 
on  the  problems  of  the  past  in  order  to  be  able  to 
look  towards  the  future.  We  have  rebalanced  the 
macroeconomy  and  began  to  strengthen  relations 
with  our  neighbouring  countries.  We  are  establishing 
mature  links  with  other  countries  and  multilateral 
organizations, and we are already starting to see results. 
We have returned to international credit markets, and 
many  companies  have  demonstrated  that  they  trust 
Argentina. New investments are announced every day, 
which  will  lead  to  jobs  and  put  the  country  on  track 
to  expand  its  economy.  Argentines  are  ready  to  enter 
into the twenty-first century and assume our role in the 
international community.
However,  we  cannot  achieve  any  of  those  goals 
alone.  We  have  to  work  together,  starting  with  our 
neighbours. I am from a region that thinks of itself as 
a  common  neighbourhood  with  shared  challenges.  In 
recent years, Latin America has made huge efforts to 
reduce poverty, thanks to robust social policies and to 
the very favourable international economic conditions. 
But today the context is different. All of our countries 
have experienced diminished growth, while global trade 
has  shown  weak  performance.  At  the  regional  level, 
the  balance  of  trade  is  less  favourable  and  inflation 
punishes those who have less.
But  we  in  Argentina  are  optimistic.  We  know 
that, in order to grow inclusively, Latin America must 
count on a tremendous amount of human talent as well 
as  incomparable  natural  wealth.  While  in  the  world 
there  are  trends  that  generate  worry  and  uncertainty, 
encouraging  news  is  coming  from  our  region,  such 
as  the  normalization  of  relations  between  Cuba  and 
the  United  States  and  the  peacebuilding  process  in 
Colombia. In addition, we see conditions for creating a 
corridor of peace from the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific 
Ocean throughout the region, which will contribute to 
regional stability and prosperity.
But  the  challenges  of  global  governance  in  the 
twenty-first century do not exclusively belong to some 
countries or regions; they concern everyone. We must 
cooperate,  while  thinking  globally  and  acting  locally 
and  without  losing  sight  of  the  first  principle  of  this 
Organization, which is based on the sovereign equality 
of  all  of  its  Members.  A  world  with  more  voices  is  a 
more  just  world.  That  is  why  it  is  important  that  we 
continue  building  a  system  based  on  clear  rules  that 
reflect  diversity  and  plurality  and  that  facilitate 
consensus.
Climate  change  is  the  greatest,  most  important 
challenge that humankind faces. Only if we are aware 
of that fact will we be able to make progress without 
jeopardizing  our  future  and  the  future  of  future 
generations.  We  in  Argentina  are  betting  ambitiously 
on renewable energy to develop our potential in areas 
such as solar, wind and biomass energy generation. We 
signed the Paris Agreement and we are proud of being 
one  of  the  first  countries  to  complete  the  ratification 
process.  That  is  why  we  call  upon  the  international 
community to put forth its greatest efforts so that we 
can soon see the Agreement enter into force, which is 
so important for our future.
is 
Another  major  challenge 
the  problem  of 
refugees. Although a year ago we made a commitment 
to leave nobody behind, the images we see today hurt 
and  worry  us.  This  reality  calls  for  us  to  do  more. 
Our  White  Helmets  are  widely  recognized  for  their 
commitment  to  humanitarian  matters,  which  is  why, 
last May, Argentina was present in the Syrian conflict 
zone to offer assistance at a refugee camp in Lebanon. I 
would like to announce that we are going to accept even 
more  refugees  from  Syria  and  from  its  neighbouring 
countries,  favouring  families  with  children.  We  have 
established a national cabinet of ministers charged with 
broadening  the  existing  humanitarian  programme, 
which  coordinates  ministries  and  Governmental 
departments and addresses security measures and full 
social integration. We will be able to gradually increase 
our  ability  to  receive  more  people  to  the  extent  that 
financial support, technical assistance and international 
logistical support allow us to do.
Gender  equality  is  also  a  primary  goal  of  ours, 
upon  which  we  have  to  work  with  conviction  and 
political  determination.  Argentina  is  making  the  full 
empowerment  of  women  its  State  policy.  We  have 
established  a  national  action  plan  for  prevention  and 
assistance  for  women  at  risk  in  order  to  put  an  end 
to violence against women in all of its forms. We are 
working with a cross-cutting approach so that women 
will  have  the  same  social,  political,  economic  and 
cultural  opportunities  in  the  country  as  men.  In  this 
regard,  we  are  grateful  for  the  support  that  Susana 
Malcorra, our Minister for Foreign Affairs, has received 
as a candidate to be the next Secretary-General of the 
United  Nations.  In  the  twenty-first  century,  having  a 
16-29296
29/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
woman as the head of the Organization would be a very 
encouraging example.
When  the  Organization  was  founded,  countries 
assumed the commitment of maintaining international 
peace  and  security.  However,  we  live  in  a  world  that 
is 
increasingly  violent,  where  radical  extremism 
threatens innocent people and vulnerable populations. 
It  should  be  remembered  that,  in  1992  and  in  1994, 
Argentina  was  a  victim  of  international  terrorism, 
with two attacks, for which we hope to receive greater 
international  cooperation  in  clarifying  events  and 
punishing those responsible. My country condemns any 
group that through its actions aims to promote terror in 
any part of the planet.
In recent years, this phenomenon has worsened. To 
stop it, international cooperation is indispensable. We 
have  to  promote  development  both  inside  and  outside 
of  our  countries  because  development  does  not  stop 
at  the  border.  Growth  with  inclusion,  dialogue  and 
tolerance  —  and  the  creation  of  opportunities  —  all 
help to reduce the marginalization and humiliation that 
fuels the recruitment of terrorists.
Dialogue  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
make  up  the  cornerstone  of  the  foreign  policy  of  a 
democratic Argentina. That is why I reiterate our call 
for dialogue with the United Kingdom, as called for in 
many resolutions of this Organization, so as to amicably 
resolve  the  sovereignty  dispute  that  we  have  had  for 
almost two centuries over the Malvinas Islands, South 
Georgia  Islands  and  South  Sandwich  Islands  and  the 
surrounding  maritime  areas.  We  have  shown  interest 
in advancing our bilateral relationship, which can and 
should be mutually beneficial. That is why we trust that 
it will be possible to find a definitive solution to this 
prolonged dispute.
I would like to conclude with a thought. Argentina, 
which  has  just  celebrated  200  years  of  independence, 
is  a  country  that  has  always  opened  its  doors  to  men 
and  women  from  around  the  world  seeking  a  better 
life.  There  is  a  piece  of  each  part  of  the  world  in  my 
country.  We  coexist  peacefully  —  Christians,  Jews 
and  Muslims.  Diversity  enriches  our  society,  and  we 
embrace openness within a world where fragmentation 
is burgeoning. Let us say to the world, we need not fear 
interdependency. This world is our shared home, which 
is why we must take care of it. We must learn to coexist 
peacefully, just as Pope Francis has called upon on us 
to  do.  Fostering  a  sense  of  integration  and  working 
together  will  only  strengthen  us.  Let  us  continue  to 
build  networks  and  bridge  gaps.  The  members  of  the 
Assembly  can  count  on  Argentina.  We  have  much  to 
say and to contribute.
Please  allow  me 
to  extend  my  gratitude 
to 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  work  in  leading  the 
Organization. His legacy has difficult challenges, which 
is  why  we  must  continue  with  our  efforts.  Over  the 
years, the United Nations has shown us the importance 
of pursuing a better world. Now it is time for us to put 
forth all of our creativity and political will to make our 
vision of a better world a reality.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Argentine Republic for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Mauricio  Macri,  President  of  the  Argentine 
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. François Hollande, President of the 
French Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the French Republic.
the 
Mr.  François  Hollande,  President  of 
French  Republic,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  François 
Hollande,  President  of  the  French  Republic,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Hollande (spoken in French): It is always 
an honour for me to address the General Assembly. It is 
also a responsibility — above all given the serious and 
worrying  situation  in  the  world.  I  stand  before  those 
present  on  behalf  of  France  to  issue  several  appeals. 
First, I would like to ask all members to do everything 
possible to implement the historic Agreement that was 
signed in Paris on 12 December 2015. The Agreement 
was historic because the conference was held at a time 
when  Paris,  the  capital  of  France,  had  been  struck 
by  terrorist  attacks.  The  Agreement  was  historic 
because, for the first time, the assembled international 
community agreed to make a commitment to reducing 
global  warming  and  mobilizing  financing,  while 
30/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
allowing  the  most  vulnerable  countries  to  make  an 
energy transition.
migration,  which  leads  to  the  destabilization  of  both 
countries of origin and destination.
And  yet,  standing  before  the  Assembly,  let  me 
state once again that despite the momentous nature of 
the Agreement, there is no time to lose. The past two 
years have been the hottest known to humankind since 
records  began.  Admittedly,  in  April  2016,  right  here 
with  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  an  agreement 
was  signed  with  175  countries.  But  everyone  here 
knows that it will come into force only if it is ratified 
by  55  per  cent  of  countries,  representing  55  per  cent 
of  greenhouse-gas  emissions.  The  United  States  and 
China  have  announced  their  decision  to  ratify,  which 
is  very  important.  Nothing  would  have  been  possible 
without  the  participation  and  the  commitment  of 
those two countries, which are the largest emitters of 
carbon  dioxide.  France  itself  will  notify  the  United 
Nations tomorrow that it has completed its ratification 
procedure.  I  appeal  to  all  members  to  speed  up  their 
ratification  procedures  so  that  the  goal  is  met  by  the 
end of the year.
The  twenty-first  session  of  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change  (COP-21)  was  a  conference  of 
decisions.  The  twenty-second  session,  to  be  held  in 
Marrakech,  should  be  a  conference  of  solutions.  It  is 
a  question  of  implementing  the  International  Solar 
Alliance,  fighting  desertification,  protecting  the  seas 
and also setting a carbon price.
However, the appeal I want to issue to the Assembly, 
following  this  climate  agreement,  is  an  appeal  for 
Africa.  Africa  is  a  continent  full  of  promise,  but  its 
development  could  be  hindered  by  climate  change, 
migration,  conflict,  war  and  terrorism.  The  continent 
has a bright future; however, it may also be the one to 
cause  growing  insecurity,  and  that  insecurity  targets, 
first and foremost, Africans themselves.
That  is  why,  on  behalf  of  France,  I  am  proposing 
a  2020  agenda  for  Africa.  The  plan  should  make  it 
possible  for  all  Africans  to  gain  access  to  electricity. 
Two thirds of Africans today are deprived of it. That is 
an injustice, but above all it impedes sustainable growth 
in Africa. What is at stake, therefore, is responding to 
the needs of 15 per cent of the world population. What 
is  at  stake  is  enabling  Africans  to  benefit  from  their 
immense  potential  for  development.  What  is  at  issue 
here  is  reducing  population  displacements,  that  is, 
That  is  why,  at  the  Paris  Conference,  I  launched 
the  African  Renewable  Energy 
Initiative.  Ten 
donors  —  and  I  want  thank  them  here  —  pledged 
to  donate  $10  billion  by  2020.  France  has  assumed 
20  per  cent  of  that  amount,  or  €2  billion.  Europe  has 
decided  on  an  external  investment  plan,  which  could 
reach —  still  with  a  view  to  providing  Africans  with 
access  to  electricity  —  nearly  €40  billion,  and  even 
double that amount if European Union member States 
contribute  as  well.  I  call  on  all  countries  to  join  that 
effort.  I  am  not  just  calling  for  solidarity  here  —  for 
this is a mutual investment that will benefit the whole 
world — I call for this to happen as soon as possible.
But there will be no development in Africa unless 
the continent’s security is ensured. When I committed 
France  to  acting  in  Mali,  it  did  so  with  an  awareness 
of its responsibility. We had to prevent terrorist groups 
from  taking  over  an  entire  country  and  destabilizing 
an  entire  region.  Today,  that  threat  has  been  rolled 
back and Mali is regaining its territorial integrity. But 
other groups, including Boko Haram and Al-Qaida, are 
emerging to threaten the security of many countries in 
West Africa, the Sahel and the Lake Chad region. There 
too, France is supporting military forces with training, 
information-sharing and assistance in the fight against 
terrorism. We are doing so, for instance, in the Niger, 
Nigeria,  Chad,  Benin  and  Cameroon.  We  should 
expand such efforts along with the United Nations and 
the African Union.
Let us be clear — the security of Africans has to 
come  from  Africans  themselves  if  we  want  to  avoid 
external  intrusion  and  interference.  My  appeal  for 
development  and  renewable  energy  is  also  a  call  for 
the  security  of  Africans,  for  equipping  their  armies 
and  giving  them  the  means  to  respond,  and  for  these 
African nations to organize their own development in a 
free and sovereign manner.
The  last  call  I  wish  to  make  here  is  perhaps  the 
saddest of all. It is for Syria. The Syrian tragedy will 
go down in history as a disgrace for the international 
community  if  we  do  not  end  it  quickly.  Aleppo  is 
today a martyred city, and this is how it shall remain 
in  historical  memory.  Thousands  of  children  have 
died  in  bombings,  entire  populations  are  starving, 
humanitarian convoys are being attacked, and chemical 
weapons are being used.
16-29296
31/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
I  have  one  thing  to  say  in  this  regard  —  enough 
is enough. Just like in February, the ceasefire held for 
only a few days. It ended practically the day after its 
announcement, before its terms were even understood. 
The regime is responsible for its failure and cannot be 
exonerated  for  mistakes  that  could  have  been  made 
by others. I would say to its foreign supporters — and 
we all know who they are — that they need to compel 
the  regime’s  hand  to  peace.  If  they  do  not  then  they, 
alongside the regime, shall bear responsibility for the 
division and chaos in Syria.
The  Security  Council  must  meet  as  soon  as 
possible. It should not be a theatre of fools — in other 
words, a place where responsibility can be evaded and 
where some can impede its work in order to protect a 
regime while they should be seeking a solution with us. 
France has four demands. First, we must first impose 
the ceasefire in line with the decisions that have been 
taken.  That  is  the  precondition.  Secondly,  we  need  to 
ensure the immediate delivery of humanitarian aid to 
Aleppo and other martyred cities. That is the priority. 
Thirdly,  we  must  ensure  the  resumption  of  political 
negotiations along the lines of the transition established 
in 2012. That is the solution. Fourthly, we must sanction 
the use of chemical weapons. That is justice.
If we take these decisions and act now, there will 
be  a  solution  for  Syria.  In  fact,  it  will  be  more  than 
a solution; there will finally be hope for refugees and 
displaced  persons.  There  will  finally  be  action  that 
will  allow  Syria  to  maintain  its  territorial  integrity. 
We  are  also  determined  to  see  an  intervention  in 
Iraq that will help to free the entire country from the 
Da’esh  occupation  of  its  territory.  If  we  decide  to  act 
effectively  against  terrorism,  we  can  prevent  further 
terrorist  attacks  around  the  world.  The  risk  is  chaos 
and division, and it exists beyond Syria. It also exists 
in Libya. Our priority must be to re-establish the State 
around  the  Government  of  National  Accord  led  by 
Prime Minister Al-Sarraj — a goal for which France is 
working with its partners and the United Nations.
We  cannot  sit  back  and  do  nothing.  That  would  be 
playing into the hands of the forces, terrorists in particular, 
that aim to destabilize the world. France shall never resign 
itself, even if it is difficult — especially if it is difficult — and 
that is why it has taken the initiative to contribute to seeking 
a solution to the conflict between Israel and Palestine. Of 
course, no one can impose a solution on the parties, but once 
again, resigning ourselves to the status quo involves taking a 
risk. It means allowing settlement to take place once again. It 
means once again allowing unjust, unfair and unacceptable 
violence to take place. The objective, therefore, is to meet 
here at the end of the year and hold a conference at which 
Israelis  and  Palestinians  can  assume  their  responsibilities 
to negotiate.
This same spirit led me, along with Chancellor Merkel, 
to seek a solution in Ukraine. It led to the creation of the 
Normandy format, which allowed us to come to an agreement 
in Minsk. Today, we must do everything we can to ensure 
that the agreement is implemented; if we do not, there will 
be  renewed  violence  and  perhaps  even  the  resumption  of 
war. I recall that this conflict has claimed more than 6,000 
victims.  I  have  therefore  taken  the  initiative,  along  with 
the  Chancellor  of  Germany,  to  bring  together  the  Russian 
and Ukrainian Presidents in the weeks to come to promote 
progress  in  the  implementation  of  the  Minsk  accords.We 
will not abandon that goal. We will renounce no initiative 
that we think may be useful.
I  have  raised  the  issue  of  terrorism,  which  threatens 
every country of the world. Long is the list of all those whom 
it has impacted in Africa, the Middle East, Asia, Europe and 
even Oceania. No country can claim to be immune to the 
threat of Islamist terrorism, fundamentalism and fanaticism, 
which have seduced and radicalized lost individuals within 
our societies. There is no sea or wall that can protect a country 
from this tragedy and the scourge of terrorist action, attacks 
or aggressions. Terrorism thrives on open conflicts that have 
remained unsolved for too long. It has provoked a wave of 
refugees  and  undermined  international  order,  borders  that 
we  thought  fixed,  law  that  we  thought  we  could  maintain 
and the collective security that was the very principle of the 
United Nations.
In  the  face  of  these  dangers,  France  once  again  turns 
to  the  United  Nations.  The  United  Nations  has  shown  its 
effectiveness  with  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  and  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate  Change,  which  many  thought  was  impossible. 
United Nations peacekeeping operations have never been as 
numerous as they are now.
However,  if  we  want  to  act  to  eradicate  terrorism, 
we  will  need  to  make  decisions  and  not  merely  talk  of 
solidarity  when  a  friendly  country  is  attacked  or  merely 
express  compassion  for  the  victims.  We  must  shoulder 
responsibilities  whenever  that  can  be  useful.  That  is 
what France does. Not because it is attacked — today, 
as I have said, every country is a target for terrorism. 
No, France does it because it is a permanent member 
of the Security Council and its role is about acting, not 
32/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
creating  obstacles.  France  does  it  because  it  has  one 
great  idea,  the  idea  that  it  has  upheld  throughout  its 
history — bringing freedom, democracy and justice to 
the world. It is because France puts its policies at the 
service of a single goal — peace — and talks to everyone 
involved. It is because France is an independent nation 
that  respects  the  law  and  has  no  enemies  other  than 
the forces of hatred and intolerance that use a betrayed 
religion  to  create  fear.  It  is  because  we  must  fight 
the  populists  who  exploit  distress  in  order  to  divide, 
separate,  stigmatize  and  pit  religions  against  one 
another, risking confrontations that would have terrible 
consequences  for  cohesion  in  our  societies.  France  is 
a secular country that proclaims itself as such but that 
speaks  to  every  religion  and  guarantees  freedom  of 
worship on its soil, because the only interests we have 
in the world are stability, development and the future 
of our planet.
That is why France is so committed to the United 
Nations  and  demonstrates  it  every  day.  I  want  to  pay 
tribute  to  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  to 
all  who  dedicate  themselves  to  the  United  Nations, 
beginning with Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who 
for  10  years  has  led  this  difficult  mission  on  behalf 
of all of us and enabled us to advance its cause. And 
that is also why, in the face of the major challenges I 
have mentioned, especially Syria and the fight against 
terrorism, I expect the United Nations, and particularly 
the  Security  Council,  to  shoulder  its  responsibilities. 
There comes a moment for every generation and public 
official when the only question worth asking is whether 
we have made decisions — and whether they are good 
decisions.  The  countries  here  are  all  different  sizes, 
at  different  levels  of  development  and  with  different 
sensitivities and beliefs, but they should have only one 
goal  and  one  demand,  which  is  that  the  world  should 
rise to the challenges facing the planet.
That is why I want to appeal to all those here — to call 
for implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change, for ensuring that Africa and all Africans have 
electricity  and  better  development,  and  for  peace  in 
Syria,  because  it  is  so  urgently  needed.  That  is  why 
I  believe  in  the  United  Nations,  and  that  is  why  both 
France and I are sending a universal message.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the French Republic for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  François  Hollande,  President  of  the  French 
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Arthur Peter Mutharika, President 
of the Republic of Malawi
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Malawi.
Mr.  Arthur  Peter  Mutharika,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Arthur Peter 
Mutharika, President of the Republic of Malawi, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Mutharika:  I  am  delighted  and  happy 
to  be  addressing  the  General  Assembly  today,  and  I 
would like to join my fellow leaders in congratulating 
the President on his election as its leader. The world has 
shown its confidence in him, and we are confident that 
he will steer the ship to the shore of our dreams. His 
election also testifies to our belief in the equality of our 
Member States, irrespective of their size.
I  would  also  like  to  sincerely  commend  His 
Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the 
United  Nations,  for  his  exceptional  leadership  during 
his tenure of office. We wish him every success in his 
future  endeavours.  I  believe  we  will  find  an  equally 
competent person to replace him. I have also noted with 
appreciation that the process of selecting the Secretary-
General has, for the first time in the history of the United 
Nations,  begun  to  address  issues  of  transparency  and 
democracy. If our job is to promote the political virtues 
of  transparency  and  democracy  around  the  world,  we 
must  indeed  also  be  the  first  to  show  ourselves  to  be 
transparent and democratic.
We have engaged in a unanimous drive to transform 
our  world.  We  have  agreed  that  our  road  to  a  better 
world must follow the signposts of the 17 Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs),  which  show  us  the  road 
to  ending  poverty  in  the  world.  Today,  we  gather  to 
look  back  on  the  road  of  progress  and  to  renew  our 
commitment to pursue those Goals to the end.
The mission of every generation should be to leave 
our  world  a  better  place  for  subsequent  generations. 
16-29296
33/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
But our generation faces mountains of challenges. Our 
world  stands  in  great  peril.  Innocent  souls  continue 
to  suffer  from  the  tragedy  of  wars.  Many  lives  are 
maimed,  mutilated  or  cut  short.  Political  instability 
continues  to  shake  the  foundations  of  our  dreams. 
Conflicts have scattered communities and driven them 
from their homes in endless migrations. We are caught 
in  unending  cycles  of  suffering,  violence,  terrorism, 
radicalization,  extremism,  abductions  and  human 
trafficking. That is a story that we can have no pride 
in  recounting  to  the  next  generations.  Our  world  is 
living a story of indignity and shame. Our planet is in 
great  danger.  Everywhere,  global  warming  threatens 
our  existence  with  hurricanes,  cyclones,  earthquakes, 
wildfires,  extreme  flooding  and  droughts,  dangers 
that  threaten  the  fragile  economies  of  Africa  and  the 
Third  World  everywhere.  Africa,  and  the  rest  of  the 
developing  world,  is  suffering  from  dehumanizing 
poverty,  the  pain  of  hunger,  disease,  inequalities  and 
gender imbalances.
Most of these are tragedies and challenges of our 
own creation. And the solutions lie in our hands. The 
choices for human destiny around the world lie with us 
in the Assembly. Those challenges must be resolved by 
us, for nobody else can resolve them. It must be done 
here, or nowhere else. It must be now, or never.
We  have  risen  to  the  occasion  of  our  times  and 
begun  the  journey  of  conquest  with  the  adoption  of 
the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  But  we  have 
only  just  begun.  The  sustainability  of  our  pursuit 
and  the  attainment  of  our  goals  depend  upon  our 
common understanding and our walking together as a 
community of humankind. Malawi is doing its part and 
will continue to do its part. We continue to guarantee 
basic human rights because we can progress only with 
people who are free. We offer every care to our brothers 
and  sisters  who  seek  refuge  in  Malawi  because  we 
have a duty to humankind. We ensure peace, stability, 
security and tranquillity for everyone because we must 
create an environment for progress. We govern with the 
principles  of  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law  because 
humankind is safe only when everybody is accountable. 
And we pledge to continue living in peace with all of 
our neighbours because we value peace and harmony.
to 
Malawi’s  commitment 
international  peace 
and  security  is  on  record.  We  have  been  sending 
peacekeeping  forces  to  various  parts  of  Africa  and 
beyond  for  a  long  time.  I  am  happy  to  report  that 
Malawi’s  record  in  peacekeeping  is  illustrative  and 
outstanding.  In  that  regard,  we  are  committed  to  the 
work of the United Nations. As a beacon of peace, we 
also actively pursue the African Union’s (AU) Agenda 
2063  project  “Silencing  the  guns  by  2020”  —  and 
silence the guns we must.
On the economic front, Malawi continues to register 
steady but considerable progress, despite the attendant 
challenges.  The  country  registered  a  gross  domestic 
product (GDP) growth rate of 3.2 per cent in 2015, as 
compared with the global average of 3 per cent, and is 
expected to reach 5 per cent in 2016. Although inflation 
has been negatively affected by the food shortage, bulk 
maize importation should help to reduce inflation and 
consequently  improve  lending  rates.  Our  domestic 
and  foreign  debts  are  within  sustainable  levels.  And 
the economy is progressively generating much-needed 
jobs,  particularly  among  our  youth.  Moving  forward, 
the  combination  of  robust  fiscal  and  macroeconomic 
reform  programmes  that  the  country  is  implementing 
is projected to lead to further GDP growth, single-digit 
inflation and low lending rates, which will in turn lead 
to increased confidence, greater investment, more jobs 
and improved incomes.
Our only major setback in the last two years was 
the effects of climate change. In 2015, we experienced 
terrible  floods  that  affected  over  half  of  the  country. 
In 2016, we endured just the opposite, as yet again half 
of  the  country  was  affected,  this  time  by  a  scorching 
drought.  When  we  consider  climate  change,  let  us 
remember that there are real souls out there suffering the 
effects. We, as a country, will do our duty to humankind. 
This  afternoon,  I  will  sign  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change here at Headquarters and commit my 
Government to the ratification and implementation of 
that  crucial  document.  Malawi  has  already  adopted  a 
climate change policy, which will guide our domestic 
implementation of the Paris Agreement. We are taking 
action on climate change.
Let  me  also  put  on  record  that  Malawi  is  making 
exemplary  progress  in  the  health  sector.  We  are 
pioneering  innovative  approaches  to  the  management 
of  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic.  We  are  among  the 
few  countries  on  the  African  continent  that  have 
successfully  rolled  out  the  test-and-treat  programme. 
We are managing the pandemic. But we need concerted 
efforts to manage non-communicable diseases such as 
hypertension, diabetes and cancer.
34/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
On  gender  equality,  Malawi  is  taking  proactive 
measures  to  reduce  the  vulnerability  of  women  and 
adolescent  girls  to  violence  and  abuse.  Consequently, 
we  are  focusing  on  addressing  gender-based  violence 
and balancing reproductive and productive roles in order 
to enhance women’s participation in decision-making. 
This work entails collaboration with traditional leaders, 
in  order  to  tackle  retrogressive  traditional  practices 
that  harm  our  women  and  the  girl  child.  We  have 
also enhanced legal and policy reforms and improved 
our  law  enforcement  mechanism  in  that  area.  We  are 
adopting the Gender Equality Act: Implementation and 
Monitoring Plan 2016-2020 as well as improved gender-
sensitive data-collection approaches.
On  trade  issues,  investment  and  market  access, 
Malawi  continues  to  open  up  the  economy  and  offer 
numerous investment opportunities. We have opened up 
to investors in the mining, manufacturing, agriculture 
and  adding  value,  tourism,  transport,  water,  energy 
and  financial  sectors.  We  are  rapidly  improving  our 
business  climate.  We  are  ready  to  do  business  with 
the  world.  I  therefore  invite  the  global  community  to 
patronize the annual Malawi Investment Forum, to be 
held in Lilongwe on 10 and 11 October. It is imperative 
that regional and global markets be free of distortions 
such  as  subsidies,  tariffs  and  non-tariff  barriers.  We 
must  live  up  to  the  aspirations  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization  Doha  Development  Agenda.  The  global 
community must realize that it is only by taking such 
steps  that  African  countries  will  be  able  to  produce 
and add value to their commodities. That will generate 
the  necessary  jobs  to  keep  our  young  people  in  the 
continent  and  propel  our  economies  to  sustainable 
growth and prosperity.
Without investments in those areas, it will continue 
to  be  a  challenge  to  prevent  African  youth  from 
taking desperate and dangerous action by crossing the 
seas  and  oceans  to  reach  developed  economies.  Such 
investments will also reduce the risk of our youth being 
lured into radicalism and extremism, with the attendant 
threat to domestic and international peace and security. 
I must underline that poverty in African communities 
is  a  danger  to  the  global  community  because  poverty 
and  the  disenchantment  of  our  youth  can  be  an  easy 
source of radicalization.
Speaking in my capacity as United Nations Youth 
Champion,  I  am  fully  committed  to  the  promotion  of 
youth  development  and  harnessing  the  demographic 
dividend in Malawi, across the African Continent and 
beyond. I am delighted to report that the African Union 
has  adopted  “Harnessing  the  Demographic  Dividend” 
as  its  theme  for  2017.  I  wish,  therefore,  to  call  upon 
global leaders to join the efforts of the African Union 
and  our  global  partners  in  prioritizing  investments 
in  our  youth,  in  order  to  accelerate  socioeconomic 
transformation and development at the global level.
is 
the  one  espoused  as 
On  United  Nations  reform,  the  common  African 
position 
the  Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration.  Our  firm  belief 
is that the attainment of the SDGs cannot happen in an 
environment that is devoid of representation, fairness, 
efficiency, transparency and accountability, such as at 
the  Security  Council.  My  country  therefore  earnestly 
supports  all  efforts  and  work  currently  under  way  to 
find a suitable vehicle for the reform and revitalization 
of the United Nations, and shall seek every possible way 
to contribute to the appropriate solution on the matter.
Let  me  conclude  by  reiterating  that  Malawi  is 
making  every  effort  to  overcome  the  decades  of 
underdevelopment,  disease  and  hunger 
that  have 
retarded  the  development  of  the  country.  That  is  our 
quest  for  the  dignity  of  our  people  and  their  place  in 
the world. Malawi is set to be a productive partner in 
our collective push to transform our world. We are the 
leaders  of  that  transformation.  We  are  the  generation 
that  must  transform  the  world.  History  demands  our 
collective leadership.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Malawi  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Arthur  Peter  Mutharika,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Tabaré Vázquez, President of the 
Eastern Republic of Uruguay
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Eastern Republic of Uruguay.
Mr.  Tabaré  Vázquez,  President  of  the  Eastern 
Republic of Uruguay, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Tabaré 
16-29296
35/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
Vázquez, President of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Vázquez (spoke in Spanish): As a citizen 
and the President of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, 
it is an honour for me to speak to the General Assembly 
again  from  this  rostrum.  In  this  forum,  which  is  the 
largest and most representative of humankind today, I 
offer the greetings of the citizens and the Government 
of my country. Our greetings reflect the values   of peace, 
freedom,  democracy,  justice  and  solidarity,  which 
define  our  nation  and  the  United  Nations,  which  we 
helped found in 1945, and today we are a non-permanent 
member of the Security Council.
As this is not my first time here, I run the risk of 
repeating  what  I  said  on  previous  occasions,  and  in 
particular  what  I  said  on  29  September  2016  in  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session  (see  A/70/
PV.16). But I am taking that risk because, with only a 
few  exceptions,  all  the  issues  that  I  raised  a  year  ago 
can be conveyed in the same terms and, in some cases, 
even graver ones.
Let  us  be  clear:  I  do  not  say  that  as  a  reproach, 
and even less so as self-praise. It is painfully obvious, 
however, that despite the efforts of the United Nations 
to fight terrorism, violence, intolerance, discrimination, 
poverty, inequality, injustice and organized crime, these 
scourges continue to plague much of humankind. For it 
is our modest belief that the task of Governments and, 
moreover,  of  rulers  —  that  is  to  say,  our  task,  which 
has  been  entrusted  to  us  by  our  citizens  —  cannot 
be  limited  to  making  assessments  and  telling  people 
what is amiss. Our unconditional duty is to create the 
conditions  for  our  people  to  build  their  own  lives  in 
society  and  to  support  them  in  that  task.  What  I  am 
saying does not seem like much, but it is a lot.
Without  ignoring  the  enormous  importance  of 
other  issues  under  consideration  by  the  Assembly,  let 
me refer to one that perhaps is not in the news, but it 
is  certainly  important  because,  as  the  data  provided 
by  the  World  Health  Organization  shows  it  is  the 
primary  cause  of  mortality  throughout  the  world, 
especially in low- and middle- income countries. I am 
mainly  talking  about  non-communicable  diseases,  in 
particular cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes and 
chronic  pulmonary  diseases.  Clearly,  the  consequent 
terrible impact that these diseases have on humankind 
fly  under  the  radar  of  our  Governments,  but  they 
nevertheless tragically affect the lives of our peoples. 
And these avoidable diseases are largely due to four risk 
factors directly linked to supposedly typically modern 
behaviours,  that  is,  smoking,  alcohol  consumption, 
unhealthy diet and physical inactivity.
The  primary  effects  of  those  risk  factors  are 
dramatically felt increasingly in middle- and low-income 
countries,  and  the  poorest  people  in  every  country, 
strongly  reflecting 
the  underlying  socioeconomic 
determiners. Among these populations, the conditions 
are  ripe  for  creating  a  vicious  cycle.  Poverty  exposes 
people  to  the  behavioural  risk  factors  that  lead  to 
non-communicable diseases and these, in turn, tend to 
worsen the state of poverty of the affected individuals 
and  families.  Health  systems  are  also  affected  by  the 
impact  of  the  high  costs  of  the  treatments  that  are 
needed to treat chronic non-communicable diseases. To 
give an idea of the financial implications, and without 
being dramatic, I want to draw members’ attention to the 
following statistics, which they certainly already know.
First,  the  direct  cost  of  smoking  on  the  national 
health-care  systems  of  Latin  America  is  estimated  at 
$33 billion. That is the equivalent to 0.5 per cent of the 
gross  domestic  product  of  our  region  and  7  per  cent 
of what it spends annually on health care. And the tax 
that our countries impose on tobacco products does not 
amount to 50 per cent of the costs of illnesses directly 
caused  by  smoking.  Secondly,  in  2009  the  overall 
estimated  economic  cost  of  cancer  in  Mexico,  the 
Caribbean  and  Central  and  South  America  amounted 
to  an  estimated  $286  billion  in  direct  costs  —  for 
example,  doctors’  visits  and  medical  analyses  —  and 
indirect  costs,  including  travel  and  lodging  expenses 
and  lost  workdays  and  productivity,  among  others. 
Therefore,  in  our  humble  view,  unless  we  vigorously 
fight  the  epidemic  of  non-communicable  diseases  in 
countries  and  social  groups  that  are  most  exposed  or 
affected, the impact of those diseases will grow. And 
the plausible global goal of reducing poverty, which is 
timely  and  adopted  by  the  Assembly  as  the  condition 
sine qua non for sustainable development, rather than 
drawing  closer,  dramatically,  retreats  more  each  day 
beyond our reach.
If  we  look  at  the  statistics  available,  in  a  single 
working day approximately 104,109 people worldwide 
will die today as a result of the diseases I mentioned. 
How then can we not design and implement strategies 
to  control  alcohol  and  tobacco  consumption  and  to 
promote healthful lifestyles, such as a healthful diet and 
physical exercise. No doubt what I am saying here is a 
36/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
far cry from what those who preceded me in addressing 
the Assembly have said. While I hope I am mistaken, 
if we do not take appropriate measures, our countries, 
especially  the  poorest  and  most  humble  among  them, 
will suffer dramatic consequences due to those diseases, 
which,  I  repeat,  can  be  prevented.  Of  course,  this  is 
not a medical panel or a scientific symposium. But as 
a  political  leader  who  has  not  forgotten  his  medical 
profession and continues to be involved in it, allow me 
to tell the Assembly that not only is it possible to design 
and  implement  such  strategies,  but  that  very  positive 
results can be achieved.
Those are not easy or simply strategies, but they are 
essential and can yield good results. Uruguayans know 
this from our own real-life experiences. But more than 
that, we have in place actual projects that we are working 
on.  As  on  this  issue  there  is  also  no  future  without 
solidarity, we call upon all countries, Governments and 
peoples,  non-governmental  organizations,  as  well  as 
scientific,  medical  and  international  organizations,  to 
form an alliance under the United Nations against the 
epidemic of non-communicable diseases — an alliance 
for a healthy life and as broad, vigorous and dynamic 
as possible. It is possible — not easy, but possible. In 
many ways, more than financial resources, it requires 
conviction and political will to go ahead.
Uruguay  is  a  world  leader  in  the  implementation 
of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. But 
there  have  been  opponents  to  that  leadership.  Among 
them,  at  the  beginning  of  the  year  2010,  a  claim  was 
brought before the International Centre for Settlement 
of  Investment  Disputes  by  the  tobacco  firm  Philip 
Morris. That company was suing our country because 
of  its  opposition  to  two  regulations  adopted  by  our 
country  in  order  to  control  tobacco.  In  addition  to 
the  formal  arguments  brought  by  that  tobacco  firm, 
the  main  reason  for  its  action  was  to  punish  a  small 
country  like  Uruguay  that  had  decided  to  control 
tobacco  consumption  and  to  work  hard  for  the  health 
and  right  to  live  of  our  people.  The  lawsuit  was  a 
punishment, using our small country as an example, so 
that all countries that were implementing or planning to 
implement similar policies would learn from this lesson 
not to go forward with them.
The  proceedings  were 
lenghthy,  meandering 
and  costly.  In  the  end,  though,  on  8  July,  the  arbitral 
tribunal  of  the  International  Centre  for  Settlement  of 
Investment  Disputes  handed  down  its  final  ruling. 
It  was  decisively  favourable  to  Uruguay.  None  of 
the  claimants’  arguments  were  accepted  and,  more 
important,  the  policies  adopted  by  our  country  were 
recognized as sovereign, legitimate and in line with the 
international  commitments  Uruguay  had  undertaken 
and  in  accord  with  international  law.  But  things  do 
not  happen  by  coincidence.  In  that  regard,  I  would 
like to thank the World Health Organization, many of 
the  countries  represented  here  and  all  the  institutions 
and individuals who in one way or another supported 
Uruguay’s  cause  in  this  dispute.  I  thank  all  of  them 
sincerely  on  behalf  of  the  Uruguayan  people.  The 
best way to return such support — and without being 
ignorant  of  the  circumstances  under  which  we  live 
today  —  we  commit  ourselves  to  continue  working 
hard,  as  our  modest  means  allow  —  to  help  all  the 
people of the world succeed in meaningfully defending 
their rights to health and life.
Uruguay  is  not  unaware  of  the  circumstances  in 
other regions of the world. Again, we are not indifferent. 
Allow me to address some of those issues.
First, we would like to congratulate the Government 
of Colombia and the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias 
de Colombia. We reiterate to them our willingness and 
readiness  to  continue  cooperating  with  the  parties  in 
the new and demanding stages of the peace process.
Secondly, in our address to the General Assembly 
in 2015 (see A/70/PV.16) we expressed our desire that 
the  seventieth  session  would  be  the  last  at  which  our 
country had to call for an end to the economic, trade 
and  financial  embargo  so  unfairly  imposed  by  the 
United States on Cuba. So long as the embargo remains 
in  place,  Uruguay  will  continue  to  demand  here  its 
definitive lifting.
Thirdly,  we  are  not  indifferent  to  the  complex 
political and institutional situations that exist in several 
brother  nations.  As  good  brothers,  we  hope  that  such 
difficulties  will  sovereignly  resolved  on  the  basis  of 
democratic  institutional  frameworks  and  in  a  calm, 
respectful  and  sincere  dialogue  among  the  parties 
involved.  The  will  of  citizens,  the  will  of  the  people, 
must be thoroughly respected.
I very much appreciate the attention the Assembly 
has  given  to  me  today.  On  behalf  of  the  Uruguayan 
people,  a  small  country  in  South  America’s  Southern 
Cone, I would like to reiterate that, within our modest 
means,  we  will  continue  to  work  with  members  to 
strive for a more fraternal world with more solidarity 
16-29296
37/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
for  more  social  justice,  with  peace,  with  respect  and 
with tolerance for all inhabitants of the planet.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Tabaré  Vázquez,  President  of  the  Eastern 
Republic  of  Uruguay,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn Al 
Hussein, King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Majesty 
King Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein, King of the Hashemite 
Kingdom of Jordan.
King  Abdullah  II  ibn  Al  Hussein,  King  of  the 
Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan,  was  escorted  into 
the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Majesty King Abdullah II bin 
Al Нussein, King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
King Abdullah II: Allow me to express today my 
highest regard for Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for 
his dedication and tireless efforts to advance the cause 
of peace and global harmony. I have deeply appreciated 
our work together over the past 10 years.
As I stand here today, elections to Jordan’s national 
Parliament are coming to a conclusion. It is one more 
step  on  our  country’s  positive  evolutionary  path  —  a 
path  to  which  we  have  insistently  conformed  despite 
regional  turbulence  and  a  massive  refugee  burden.  It 
represents an achievement that can be credited largely to 
our citizens, especially our youth, who have stubbornly 
held to Jordan’s heritage of unity, strength and forward-
looking spirit in spite of the odds. And it is those very 
odds that make the elections a true triumph of progress 
over regression.
As we gather here today, there are forces at play in 
my region and beyond whose sole purpose is to stack 
the odds against the core values that bind our common 
humanity.  I  am  referring,  of  course,  to  the  network 
of  extremist  terrorists  who  have  dominated  headlines 
of  late.  And  they  seek  global  dominance  as  well. 
They want to wipe out our achievements and those of 
our  ancestors,  to  erase  them  and  drag  us  back  to  the 
Dark Ages.
The  question  we  must  ask  ourselves  as  we  face 
the battle of our generation is what our legacy will be. 
Will we pass on to our children a world dominated by 
dread and division, where safety and security will be at 
the forefront of their minds as they board an airplane, 
attend  a  concert  or  football  match,  or  stroll  through 
a  mall?  Most  important,  are  we  doing  what  must  be 
done to confront and decisively defeat this evil force, 
so that our children can live in a world where fear and 
suspicion are replaced by human comradery and hope, 
so they can reach their fullest potential and add to the 
stockpile of human achievement accrued over the ages?
As  much  as  I  wish  it  were  otherwise,  sadly  the 
answer  to  those  questions  is  no.  How  can  we  be 
effective in this fight when we have not clearly defined 
who the enemy is? Who are we fighting with, and who 
are we fighting against? And I am struck today, after 
several years of facing the global war on terror, by the 
lack of understanding of the true nature of Islam that I 
find among many Western officials, think tanks, media 
leaders  and  policymakers.  I  find  myself  stating  the 
obvious again and again.
False  perceptions  of  Islam  and  of  Muslims  serve 
to  fuel  the  terrorists’  agenda  of  a  global  struggle 
by  polarizing  and  factionalizing  societies  East  and 
West — each side stigmatizing the other and each side 
driven deeper into mistrust and intolerance. Muslims, a 
quarter of the world’s population and citizens of every 
country, have a central role in the future of our planet. 
Muslim men and women bring the world a rich heritage 
of civic responsibility, justice, generosity, family life, 
and faith in God.
When some, out of prejudice or ignorance of what 
Islam is, seek to exclude Muslims from fulfilling their 
role, or on the other hand, when the outlaws of Islam, 
the  khawarij, attempt  to  mislead  some  Muslims  by 
deforming  our  religion  through  false  teachings,  our 
societies’  future  is  put  at  risk.  When  the  outlaws  of 
Islams, the khawarij, murder, when they plunder, when 
they exploit children and reject the equality of women 
before  God,  they  abuse  Islam.  When  the  khawarij 
persecute  minorities,  when  they  deny  freedom  of 
religion, they abuse Islam.
Islam teaches that all humanity is equal in dignity. 
There  is  no  distinction  among  the  various  nations  or 
38/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
religions or races. The Quran forbids coercion in religion. 
Every  citizen  is  guaranteed  the  State’s  protection 
for  themselves,  their  families,  their  properties,  their 
honour, their privacy, and their freedom of religion and 
thought.  Muslims  believe  in  the  divine  origins  of  the 
Bible and the Torah. God says in the Koran:
“Say  Ye:  ‘We  believe  in  Allah,  and  the 
revelation  given  to  us,  and  to  Abraham,  Ishmael 
and Isaac and Jacob, and the tribes, and that given 
to Moses and Jesus, and that given to the Prophets 
from  their  Lord:  We  make  no  difference  between 
one and another of them: and we submit to Allah.’” 
(The Holy Koran, II:136)
Indeed, the prophet mentioned most in the Koran is 
Moses, named 136 times. Jesus, whom we call “Christ 
Messiah,” is named 25 times. His mother, Mary, called 
“best  of  all  women  in  creation,”  is  named  35  times, 
and  there  is  a  chapter  in  the  Quran  called  Maryam. 
The  khawarij deliberately  hide  these  truths  about 
Islam  in  order  to  drive  Muslims  and  non-Muslims 
apart.  We  cannot  allow  that  to  happen.  Once  we 
understand  that  this  is  a  battle  that  we  must  fight 
together — all religions and all of us who believe in the 
dignity, freedom, and well-being that is the birthright 
of  every  individual  —  then  we  can  turn  towards  our 
common enemy and examine through a clear lens the 
unique nature of our foe.
Let me state clearly that those radical outlaw groups 
do not exist on the fringes of Islam. They are altogether 
outside  of  it.  Thus,  we  refer  to  them  as  khawarij:
outlaws  of  Islam.  They  declare  the  entire  civilized 
world as the enemy and all people, military or civilian, 
as fair game. They aim to incubate satellite caliphates 
in every country of the world in order to extend their 
reach. They are also expanding fast and wide through 
their  mastery  and  exploitation  of  modern  technology, 
including social media. To confront this non-traditional 
enemy, we need non-traditional means, a new mindset, 
new  partnerships  and  reformed  methodologies.  For 
Muslims,  first  and  foremost  this  is  a  fight  for  our 
future.  All  elements  of  our  community  have  a  role 
to  play,  not  only  in  mosques  and  religious  centers, 
but  media,  schools,  and  communities.  Let  no  one  be 
misled: traditional Sunni Islam and all of its schools of 
jurisprudence decisively reject the ideas and claims of 
the takfiri jihadists. Muslims need to help identify and 
counter the outlaws of Islam who pick and choose and 
cut and paste religious texts in order to twist and distort 
true Islamic teaching.
The international community also faces a fight for 
the future. The war will not be fought on the battlefield 
alone. Our adversary has brought the fight to every place 
where humans live and interact: airports, cafes and city 
streets. Security cooperation is imperative, but equally 
important  is  a  holistic  approach.  We  need  to  open  up 
new  channels  between  continents  and  nations,  within 
countries and among people. That means reforming the 
way  we  communicate,  share  information  and  use  our 
technologies.  The  very  same  modern  communication 
tools  used  against  us  must  be  employed  by  us,  and 
we  can  do  that  while  respecting  the  important  issue 
of  privacy.  Creative  innovators  in  the  private  sector, 
especially  in  the  technology  sector,  are  vital  for  our 
future and must be brought on board.
Ours is a global fight. The focus must not stop with 
the Middle East, but must reach far beyond into West 
and East Africa, South-East Asia and the Balkans. In 
Syria,  a  military  approach  will  leave  no  winners,  but 
only losers on every side and further civilian suffering. 
Ending  violence  ultimately  demands  a  political 
process  —  one  shepherded  by  a  unified  global  vision 
and led by all of the Syrian people. In Iraq, international 
support  remains  critical  as  the  Government  and  the 
people continue to uproot the khawarij. However, key 
to achieving and sustaining any success is an inclusive 
approach that engages all components of the country in 
the political process and in State institutions.
those  goals, 
the 
As  we  pursue 
international 
community  must  also  take  responsibility  for  those 
whose  lives  have  been  crushed  and  who  have  been 
impoverished. I am referring to the millions of refugees 
and victims. We cannot decisively defeat the scourge of 
terror  and  violence  without  decisively  rooting  out  the 
injustices that provide it with fertile ground. From the 
Abu Ghraib prison to the streets of Kabul and schools in 
Aleppo, injustice and humiliation have left tremendous 
human suffering in their wake.
No  injustice  has  spread  more  bitter  fruit  than  the 
denial of a Palestinian State. I believe that peace is a 
conscious  decision.  Israel  has  to  embrace  peace,  or 
eventually  be  engulfed  in  a  sea  of  hatred  in  a  region 
of  turmoil.  Safeguarding  Jerusalem  is  a  key  concern, 
as the Holy City is a strategic linchpin not only for my 
region but for the world.
That  is  a  priority  for  me  personally  and  for  all 
Muslims.  We  utterly  reject  attacks  on  Muslim  and 
Christian holy sites and any attempts to alter the historic 
16-29296
39/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
Muslim, Christian and Arab identity of the Holy City. 
As  the  Custodian  of  Islamic  Holy  Sites  in  Jerusalem, 
I  will  continue  my  efforts  to  protect  those  places 
and  stand  up  against  all  violations  of  their  sanctity, 
including  attempts  to  establish  temporal  and  spatial 
divisions restricting free use of the Al-Aqsa Mosque on 
Haram Al-Sharif.
Perhaps the central and most vital battleground for 
this  defining  war  of  our  generation  is  the  mind.  The 
despicable, damaging ideology of hate, murder and self-
destruction that is being spread in crash courses online 
and  elsewhere  must  be  confronted  with  a  counter-
narrative of hope, tolerance and peace. Together, in the 
General  Assembly  and  in  our  regions,  countries  and 
communities  across  the  world,  we  have  the  power  to 
create that counter-narrative. Let us show that we also 
have the will to act.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the King of 
the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for the statement he 
has just made.
King  Abdullah  II  ibn  Al  Hussein,  King  of  the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Johann Schneider-Ammann, 
President of the Swiss Confederation
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Swiss Confederation.
Mr.  Johann  Schneider-Ammann,  President  of  the 
Swiss Confederation, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Johann  Schneider-Ammann,  President  of  the 
Swiss Confederation, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President Schneider-Ammann (spoke in French): 
On  26  July  in  Abu  Dhabi,  the  Swiss  solar-powered 
plane,  Solar  Impulse,  finished  its  world  tour.  On 
the  same  day  that  the  whole  world  commended  that 
technical  feat,  the  International  Organization  for 
Migration  issued  a  statement  saying  that,  since  the 
beginning  of  2016,  more  than  3,000  migrants  had 
lost  their  lives  in  the  Mediterranean  Sea.  That  shows 
us  that  once  again  humankind  is  capable  of  the  best 
and the worst: excellence in innovation at the service 
of  the  environment,  but  also  powerlessness  and  a 
certain inertia in the face of immense tragedy, born of 
dictatorship, poverty and warfare.
The challenges facing the international community 
are  extensive.  The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  and 
in  certain  regions  of  Africa,  as  well  as  at  the  gates 
of  Europe,  represent  a  tragic  example  of  that.  The 
weakening  of  States,  economies  and  societies  fosters 
the  radicalization  that  can  lead  to  terrorism  and 
armed conflict, which bring with them their corollary 
victims  —  refugees  and  displaced  persons.  The 
consequences affect us all. Additional threats remain, 
such as natural disasters, climate change and its impacts 
and, indeed, antimicrobial resistance. Economic crises 
and  the  vicious  cycle  of  unemployment,  vulnerability 
and  social  exclusion  that  accompanies  them  are  of 
concern to decision-makers around the world.
In  the  face  of  the  scale  of  those  challenges,  a 
strong  United  Nations  is  more  necessary  than  ever. 
The Organization has already proved what it is capable 
of.  Its  tireless  efforts  to  mobilize  the  international 
community  within  the  framework  of  various  action 
plans have prolonged the all-important liberalization of 
the global economy. Over the past 20 years, the United 
Nations has helped to reduce extreme poverty rates by 
half  and  increase  average  life  expectancy.  Thanks  to 
United  Nations  incentives,  education  for  the  world’s 
populations  has  improved.  The  involvement  of  the 
private sector and civil society in global governance is 
constantly growing.
There  is  another  signal  of  hope,  namely,  the 
recent peace agreement in Colombia. Switzerland, the 
depositary of the agreement, commends all the parties 
involved  for  that  breakthrough  on  the  road  to  lasting 
peace. Our generation is the first since the beginning of 
the twentieth century not to have lived through a world 
war. The United Nations has greatly contributed to that 
outcome, even if we must admit that there are still too 
many  regional  conflicts  and  that  those  conflicts  have 
resulted in too many victims.
Because of its universality, the United Nations has 
a unique legitimacy, which gives rise to a monumental 
responsibility,  with  the  number  of  its  initiatives, 
agreements  and  processes  constantly  multiplying.  A 
new  global  vision  is  taking  shape,  and  all  States  are 
involved. Among the cornerstones of that vision is the 
40/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which is the 
common framework for the development of sustainable 
solutions.  It  provides  the  basis  for  a  renewed  social 
contract between leaders and populations.
The  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  which 
seeks to limit global warming, is a strong sign of the 
commitment of States. The recent decision of the United 
States  and  China  to  ratify  the  Agreement  is  a  very 
important step towards ensuring its success. The first 
World  Humanitarian  Summit,  held  in  Istanbul,  which 
helped  to  develop  solutions  aimed  at  helping  people 
affected by crises and disasters, is further evidence of 
international solidarity. Furthermore, the review of the 
United Nations peace and security architecture, which 
we recently completed, highlighted the importance of 
conflict prevention.
Finally, this year we celebrate the tenth anniversary 
of the Human Rights Council, which has substantially 
contributed  to  the  promotion  and  defence  of  human 
rights. A further step is now needed to strengthen the 
influence of its actions on the ground. The “Appeal of 
13 June”, launched by Switzerland and supported today 
by  70  States,  rightly  proposes  to  improve  conflict-
prevention activities by more systematically integrating 
the  human  rights  dimension,  including  strengthening 
the  links  between  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the 
Security Council.
In  recent  years,  we  have  provided  ourselves  with 
valuable  tools  to  build  a  better  world;  now  it  is  time 
to  use  them.  In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  express 
our  gratitude  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon, 
who,  during  a  decade  of  hard  work,  has  enabled  the 
United  Nations  to  make  significant  advances.  We  are 
convinced that his successor will continue the work and 
reform of the United Nations.
Our approach in this crucial phase must be based 
on  principles  that  are  dear  to  us,  the  Swiss,  namely, 
the  principles  of  inclusion  and  participation.  I  am 
convinced  that  by  acting  together  we  will  succeed  in 
meeting all the Goals of the 2030 Agenda. Switzerland 
was  one  of  the  first  countries  to  introduce  national 
measures aimed at implementing the 2030 Agenda. We 
are determined to follow through on that commitment.
I hold the deep conviction that, in order to achieve 
the  goals  that  we  have  set,  we  must  have  a  sound 
economy.  Promoting  sustainable  economic  growth 
means making commitments that favour societies that 
offer  equitable  opportunities  for  all  their  members. 
A  thriving  economy  is  a  primary  objective,  because 
it  is  a  essential  tool  for  creating  opportunities  for  all 
citizens. A thriving economy makes it easier for young 
people,  women  and  older  workers  to  enter  the  labour 
market.  I  see  that  as  absolutely  consistent  with  the 
commitments undertaken by the United Nations. For a 
dynamic economy that provides jobs and opportunities 
is an important factor in preventing terrorist abuses and 
armed conflict.
In  Switzerland,  we  have  identified  three  key 
elements that enable us to regularly be at the forefront 
of innovation and competitiveness.
First,  we  have  an  effective  training  system  that 
reflects the needs of the real economy as well as those 
of  basic  research.  University  courses  and  vocational 
programmes  in  Switzerland  benefit  from  the  same 
attention  and  the  same  care.  Enterprise  learning 
enriched  by  theoretical  training  in  vocational  schools 
plays a central role in the system.
Secondly, our liberal labour laws allow companies 
to evolve with the markets, participate in and contribute 
to  technological  progress  and  easily  adopt  innovative 
methods and products. The flexibility of our economy 
becomes the best guarantee of employment.
Thirdly, we have in place an effective and respected 
social partnership that ensures industrial peace. Regular 
negotiations between representatives of employers and 
employees  ensure  that  labour  agreements  are  flexible 
and accepted by all, and meet the needs of industries 
and regions.
international 
But  those  key  elements  cannot  produce  positive 
effects  without 
trade.  Exchanges 
stimulate  competition,  scientific  and  technological 
progress  and  innovation.  And  we  should  never  forget 
that freedom expressed through democracy and framed 
by the rule of law is the best guarantee in ensuring that 
a company may realize its full economic, scientific and 
cultural potential.
It  is  also  important  to  meet  the  challenges  of 
globalization in the digital domain, not only in terms 
of transparency, data security and equal opportunities, 
but  also  from  the  perspective  of  the  opportunities  of 
technological, social, political and economic progress. 
In  an  open  and  democratic  society,  it  is  certainly 
vital that people be able to use digital technologies in 
informed  and  safe  ways.  However,  we  must  also  do 
everything possible to ensure that the new possibilities 
16-29296
41/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
offered by digitization facilitate access to employment 
rather than make employment more precarious.
Address by Mr. Pedro Pablo Kuczynski Godard, 
President of the Republic of Peru
It  is  easy  to  forecast  that  digitization  will  make 
jobs  disappear.  But  that  is  not  what  matters;  the  real 
challenge is to identify the new jobs that it will create. 
For it is only by making that effort that we can put in 
place the training that will allow the greatest number of 
people to find jobs in tomorrow’s world. In order succeed 
in that effort, we need to engage in dialogue with the 
most innovative companies. The United Nations and its 
specialized agencies can help ensure that all countries 
can  take  advantage  of  the  opportunities  offered  by 
technological progress.
the 
international  community 
in 
international  Geneva,  whether 
Speaking  of  the  challenges  facing  the  United 
Nations  and 
leads 
us  naturally  to  Geneva  as  an  international  city. 
Switzerland  is  committed  to  prioritizing  that  city  as 
a  centre  of  global  governance.  We  are  supporting  the 
modernization  of  the  city’s  real  estate,  but  we  are 
also  strengthening  synergies  between  the  various 
stakeholders 
in 
the  field  of  global  health  or  of  humanitarian  action. 
There have been a number of initiatives in Geneva in 
recent  months,  namely,  the  Appeal  of  13  June  to  Put 
Human Rights at the Heart of Conflict Prevention, the 
launch of a High-level Panel on Water and Peace, the 
organization of a conference on the prevention of violent 
extremism, and also various kinds of peace talks and 
negotiations. They are all evidence of the importance 
of Geneva as an international city and of Switzerland’s 
commitment. It is a place that is useful for the world, 
and we will continue to commit to ensuring that its role 
is strengthened.
I am wholeheartedly convinced that the only viable 
responses  to  the  contemporary  challenges  that  we 
face are to be found in collective and solidarity-based 
solutions.  To  find  such  solutions,  the  international 
community needs a strong United Nations that is also 
modern  and  effective.  That  is  the  path  we  must  take. 
Together, we must now support the Organization with 
vision and determination.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Swiss  Confederation  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Johann  Schneider-Ammann,  President  of 
the  Swiss  Confederation,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Peru
Mr. Pedro Pablo Kuczynski Godard, President of 
the Republic of Peru, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Pedro Pablo 
Kuczynski Godard, President of the Republic of Peru, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Kuczynski Godard (spoke in Spanish): 
It  is  an  honour  to  address  the  General  Assembly, 
to  congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its seventy-first 
session, and to express Peru’s willingness to contribute 
to the success of his stewardship.
Two months ago, when I began my term as President 
of the Republic of Peru, I expressed a commitment to the 
goals set forth by the founders of our Republic. In 2021, 
Peruvians will celebrate 200 years of our independent 
life,  thereby  consolidating  a  sound  democracy,  one 
that is socially functional and prosperous, with better 
opportunities  for  jobs  and  equality  and  where  human 
rights are promoted. Our Government’s plans and public 
policies  coincide  with  the  United  Nations  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  which  are  enshrined  in  the  2030 
Agenda. They include access to water, education, health 
care for all Peruvians and other services that are vital 
in order to drastically reduce poverty, in the context of 
a  full-scale  battle  against  corruption,  discrimination, 
insecurity and drug trafficking.
One key objective of my Government is to ensure 
the efficient management of safe water and sanitation 
for  all.  We  will  ensure  access  to  drinking  water  and 
sewerage  systems  for  all  those  families  that  do  not 
now  have  such  basic  services,  which  accounts  for 
about  10  million  inhabitants,  or  almost  a  third  of  our 
people. We will make a significant investment that will 
prioritize  the  Amazon  and  Andean  regions.  We  will 
work  with  non-traditional  systems  for  potable  water 
for  non-urban  areas,  and  we  will  implement  systems 
for rainwater-harvesting in the Amazon and undertake 
public  works  through  the  reforestation  programme 
known as “Blue Mountains”, aimed at harvesting water 
42/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
in  the  highlands  of  the  Andean  Mountains.  I  believe 
that interaction with the United Nations in that regard 
is  a  priority.  I  am  therefore  very  honoured  to  have 
participated in the High-level Panel on Water just a few 
days ago.
Another very important issue for my Government 
is  to  promote  green  growth,  while  coordinating  the 
use  of  land-based  and  marine  ecosystems.  The  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  should  serve  as  an 
inspiration for us to implement those policies. Peru is a 
country that is particularly vulnerable, and we see that 
on a daily basis in the melting of our glaciers and in the 
extreme cold that occurs in southern Peru sometimes, 
both of which have compelled us to redirect our scarce 
resources to meet those challenges.
Peru  is  promoting  such  policies  so  as  to  become 
a member, as quickly as possible, of the Organization 
for  Economic  Cooperation  and  Development.  My 
Government’s  Administration  has  a  clear  vision  of 
the new challenges and responsibilities that Peru must 
grapple with, which leads us to deepen our agreements 
with  countries  that  have  similar  prospects,  problems 
and challenges. They include our partners in the Pacific 
Alliance, namely, Colombia, Chile and Mexico. It would 
also include Brazil and Argentina, which are important 
neighbours,  along  with  Ecuador.  Together  with  them, 
we  are  tackling,  in  a  harmonious  and  coordinated 
manner, the challenges of development in the twenty-
first century.
Peru  has  a  firm  commitment  to  defending  and 
definitively  strengthening  representative  democracy, 
human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law.  That  commitment 
was  clearly  enshrined  in  the  democratic  Charter  of 
the  Organization  of  American  States.  In  that  context, 
fundamental  freedoms,  the  right  to  participate  freely 
in political life and the separation of, and respect for, 
the  balance  of  powers  are  the  cornerstones  for  the 
governability of our region and can ensure a future with 
hope.
We  also  respect  the  principle  of  non-intervention 
in  the  internal  affairs  of  other  States,  something  that 
was established and introduced by the Latin American 
countries as a norm of international law a century ago. 
However, respect for that principle cannot, and should 
not,  go  against  defence  interests  and  the  promotion 
of  democracy  and  human  rights,  which  consitute  an 
irrevovable heritage for future generations.
In  that  context,  it  is  imperative  to  mention  our 
concern  regarding  the  critical  political,  economic 
and  social  situation  that  our  friends  in  Venezuela  are 
currently experiencing. Full-fledged democracy requires 
absolute  respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms, as well as due process. It also requires fully 
guaranteeing respect for the separation and balance of 
powers. The situation in Venezuela has been impacted 
by extreme violence, social and political confrontation 
and severe shortages of food and medicine. In order to 
address  that  multifaceted  crisis,  we  call  in  solidarity 
for  an  internal  political  dialogue  to  begin  as  soon  as 
possible, without conditions or restrictions and within 
a  context  of  full  respect  for  the  Constitution.  Peru  is 
ready and willing to undertake all the necessary efforts 
that  might  assist  our  Venezuelan  friends  in  bringing 
about a solution to their problems. We will work with 
the countries of the Pacific Alliance in that endeavour, 
especially  with  Venezuela’s  neighbouring  country  of 
Colombia, where we shall be in a few days to witness 
the  signing  of  the  peace  agreement  with  the  Fuerzas 
Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia.
In conclusion, I would like to convey to the General 
Assembly that the Government that I lead in Peru is an 
advocate of modernization, compatible with the efforts 
promoted  by  the  United  Nations  system,  in  a  global, 
interdependent context, which has, however, unfortunately 
been affected by a series of grave conflicts that have been 
mentioned here today and throughout all of our debates.
Various  parts  of  the  world  are  experiencing  a  crisis 
of  confidence,  setbacks  in  globalization,  populist  and 
protectionist temptations and an almost unprecedented wave 
of refugees, as the King of Jordan mentioned a moment ago. 
Our aim in South America and Latin America is to create a 
bridge of stability and cooperation between the Pacific and 
the Atlantic that seeks to promote the gradual restoration of 
peace and prosperity in the western hemisphere.
Finally, I wish to congratulate the Secretary-General on 
his decade of service to the international community in such 
an important role.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Peru  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr.  Pedro  Pablo  Kuczynski  Godard,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Peru,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
16-29296
43/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
Address by Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, President 
of the Republic of Turkey
while  peoples  in  countries  throughout  the  world  struggle 
with hunger, epidemics, poverty and illiteracy.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Turkey.
Mr.  Recep  Tayyip  Erdoğan,  President  of  the 
Republic of Turkey, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Recep Tayyip 
Erdoğan,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Turkey,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
(spoke 
in 
Erdoğan 
President 
Turkish, 
interpretation provided by the delegation): I greet the 
General Assembly on behalf of myself, my country and 
my nation with the utmost respect. I hope the seventy-
first session of the General Assembly will succeed in its 
purposes and will lead to favourable results for all countries 
and nations.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate His 
Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson on assuming the presidency 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-first session, and I 
thank His Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft for his work 
during  his  presidency  during  the  previous  session,  while 
wishing him luck in his future endeavours.
I  would  also  like  to  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon for his valuable contributions as he ends his 10-
year tenure as Secretary-General, during which he served in 
a time of global challenges.
Within  the  first  quarter  of  the  twenty-first  century, 
humankind has reached a peak in achievements in science, 
technology,  economic  development  and  health.  However, 
such brilliance has also a very dark and disgraceful side. In 
Syria,  in  Iraq  and  in  many  countries  suffering  in  the  grip 
of terrorism and war, hundreds of thousands of women and 
children, the young and the elderly, are being killed. Refugees 
fleeing death, tyranny and oppression are, unfortunately, also 
facing degrading treatment in many European cities.
Terrorist organizations, such as Da’esh and the Al-Nusra 
Front and the Democratic Union Party and Kurdish People’s 
Protection  Units,  continue  their  attacks  and  actions  in  the 
region. There is also great potential for the disputes in the 
Caucasus region to unfold into a full-fledged conflict. Many 
problems, from Yemen to Ukraine, are of particular urgency, 
That  is  the  disgraceful  side  of  our  world,  damaging 
human dignity and disturbing the human conscience. What 
is  even  more  distressing  is  that  many  of  those  crises  and 
problems could easily be resolved. Peace, prosperity and 
security  for  future  generations  greatly  depend  on  the 
steps  and  measures  that  we  take  today.  Now  is  the 
moment to show leadership with a sense of responsibility 
in addressing the problems before us decisively.
Today, terrorist organizations are able to employ a 
variety of  methods. On the night of 15 July, we in Turkey 
suffered  a  malicious  coup  attempt  initiated  by  the 
Fethullah terrorist organization, also know as Fethull. 
That terrorist organization murdered 241 citizens and 
injured  2,194  people.  Our  Parliament  building,  the 
presidential complex and many security organizations 
and 
the 
terrorist  organization,  using  F-16  fighter  jets.  Tanks 
rolled through the streets and over people. Helicopters 
and military vehicles opened fire on civilians. The coup 
attempt was successfully repelled by our nation, which 
heroically  preserved 
its  democracy,  Government, 
freedoms and future and the constitutional order.
law-enforcement  units  were  bombed  by 
I therefore take pride in my nation’s people, which 
defeated  that  heinous  coup  attempt  at  the  risk  of 
their  lives.  For  a  period  of  29  days  the  people  never 
abandoned the city squares of Turkey, remaining on call 
to  protect  our  democracy.  They  threw  their  bodies  in 
the way of tanks so as to repel the coup attempt. They 
took  a  very  noble  stand.  If  I  am  standing  here  before 
the Assembly today, it is because of our nation’s brave 
and  noble  reaction.  It  should  never  be  forgotten  that 
the  coup  attempt  in  Turkey  was  aimed  at  democracy 
throughout  the  world  as  well.  Our  nation  taught  a 
historical  lesson  to  those  intending  to  carry  out  coup 
attempts  and  became  a  source  of  inspiration  for  all 
nations committed to protecting democracy.
The new generation of terrorist organizations poses 
a security threat, not only for Turkey but also for all 170 
countries around the world in which such organizations 
exist. In other words, today the majority of the countries 
represented here in the General Assembly are currently 
under  the  threat  of  such  clandestine  structures.  The 
terrorist  organizations  work  on  the  premise  of  a 
deep-rooted  psychological  heresy  aimed  at  subduing 
the  whole  world  far  beyond  the  borders  of  Turkey. 
The  members  are  deviant  in  their  actions.  The  basic 
44/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
strategy  of  the  terrorist  organizations  is  to  infiltrate 
State institutions, influencing society and dominating 
economic  resources  under  the  disguise  of  education, 
dialogue,  tolerance,  non-governmental  organizations 
and the best of intentions.
From this rostrum, I would like to call on all our 
friends  to  take  the  necessary  measures  against  the 
Fethullahist terrorist organization in their own countries 
in order to protect the future of their own people and 
their well-being. Based on our experience, it is evident 
that, if you do not fight against the Fethullahist terrorist 
organization now, tomorrow may be too late. I would 
also like to take this opportunity to say that attributions 
such  as  “Turkish”  or  “Turkey”  and  all  other  similar 
labels  used  by  that  terrorist  organization  and  the 
persons associated with it have no relation with Turkey.
The  humanitarian  crisis  in  Syria  has  reached  its 
sixth  year.  To  date,  600,000  people  have  reportedly 
lost  their  lives,  and,  because  of  the  war,  12  million 
people  have  had  to  leave  their  country,  5  million  of 
whom  have  taken  refuge  in  other  countries.  There 
are now 2.7 million such people in our country. They 
were forced to leave their homes behind and have been 
welcomed  in  Turkey.  We  have  never  asked  why  they 
ended up in Turkey. Our doors are wide open. We have 
not  shut  our  doors  in  their  faces,  because  they  were 
fleeing barrel bombs and fighter jets. For those people, 
we have had to assume our responsibilities and do what 
was expected of us.
While the West and the rest of the world might not 
do so, we will continue to welcome them, because we 
are human beings. In the face of such an atrocity, we 
are obliged to keep our doors open to all those fleeing 
tyranny  and  oppression.  We  have  opened  our  doors 
and kept them open. And we will continue to open our 
doors in the future. The international community has, 
unfortunately, remained indifferent to the suffering of 
people  in  conflict  zones.  The  numbers  that  we  have 
mentioned correspond to human beings.
The  Syrian  people  are  in  a  state  of  exhaustion 
in  the  grip  of  proxy  wars  that  have  been  shaped  by  a 
cruel Administration, merciless terrorist organizations 
and  global  and  regional  competition.  In  that  process, 
unfortunately,  the  international  community  has  failed 
to live up to its humanitarian values and its collective 
conscience.
To  date,  Turkey  has 
approximately 
$25 billion on the refugees, including money directed 
spent 
to non-governmental organizations and municipalities. 
Members  might  ask:  what  has  Turkey  received  from 
the  rest  of  the  world?  From  the  United  Nations,  we 
have  received  only  $525  million  in  aid  and  nothing 
else.  Have  we  received  anything  from  the  European 
Union  (EU)?  The  EU  made  certain  promises,  which 
have,  unfortunately,  not  been  kept.  It  has  allocated 
$178 million to UNICEF. That is all. Turkey itself has not 
directly received any aid whatsoever in financial terms.
Since the beginning of the conflict, we have claimed 
that  the  problem  was  a  common  question  for  the  rest 
of the world. We have been establishing close contacts 
in solidarity with influential international figures. The 
Syrians are our neighbours and brothers and sisters. We 
could not remain silent in the face of such tragedy and 
carnage. We have never remained silent and never will. 
Currently, 2.7 million refugees are being housed in our 
country, along with 300,000 Iraqis. A total number of 
3  million  refugees  have  never  been  subjected  to  any 
ethnic or religious discrimination in Turkey. We have 
opened our arms wide.
In addition to the tent and container cities in which 
we  accommodate  the  refugees  in  Turkey,  we  will 
continue to provide all forms of support commensurate 
with our capabilities. We expect the EU and all other 
organizations  that  have  pledged  financial  support 
to  rise  to  the  occasion.  We  expect  them  to  keep  their 
promises.  Similarly,  we  expect  the  United  Nations  to 
keep  its  promises.  I  hope  and  pray  that  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-first session will loudly convey 
that  message  to  the  rest  of  the  world,  because  the 
contributions  of  the  international  community  should 
not be limited $512 million s. What is one to think?
From this rostrum, I call upon the rest of the world, 
including  my  European  friends  who  believe  that  the 
Syrian refugees represent a threat and clear danger to 
them.  Barbed  wire  and  high  walls  will  never  provide 
them  with  the  safety,  security  or  peace  of  mind  that 
they are seeking. That effort is in vain. The problems of 
the Syrian refugees should be immediately solved once 
and for all. Otherwise, we will never be able to prevent 
the irregular migration, social issues and security risks 
embedded within that problem. We must not lose any 
more time in ending the conflict, the terrorism and the 
environment  of  persecution,  which  are  the  sources  of 
the  problem  in  Syria.  We  must  urgently  implement  a 
political settlement process.
16-29296
45/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
We  attach  great  importance  to  protecting  Syria’s 
sovereignty and territorial integrity. We have no claims 
whatsoever  on  Syrian  territory.  Syria  belongs  to  the 
Syrian  people.  No  one  should  ever  have  any  plans 
whatsoever with regard to the territory of Syria.
Starting with our support for the Syrian opposition, 
what  is  known  as  Operation  Euphrates  Shield  was 
launched, which is critical to re-establishing stability, 
peace and prosperity in a region of despair. It became 
clear  that,  with  the  launching  of  that  operation,  the 
priority of the terrorist organization Kurdish Workers 
Party,  or  of  the  Kurdish  Democratic  Party,  is  in  not 
fighting against Da’esh. The operation — or offensive, 
as  some  prefer  to  call  it  —  has  also  boosted  the 
self-confidence  of  the  moderate  Syrian  opposition 
forces.  Furthermore,  that  development  has  provided 
encouragement to the local forces in Iraq that are eager 
to cleanse Mosul of the terror sowed by Da’esh.
As those who are present here are probably aware, 
for a long time I have appealed for the establishment of 
a safe zone along our border with Syria, which at more 
than  900  kilometres  is  the  longest  border  with  Syria. 
Along that border, Turkey has been continuously under 
threat.  We  have  been  extremely  patient.  However,  on 
24 August, in the city of Gaziantep, next to the Syrian 
border, a wedding party was attacked by a 14-year-old 
suicide  bomber,  a  boy  sent  there  by  Da’esh  terrorists. 
The blast killed 56 people and injured more than 100. 
We  were  patient  until  that  critical  moment.  That  was 
the precise time when we said, enough is enough.
Along with the moderate opposition, we initiated the 
offensive.  Primarily  in  Jarabulus,  we  have  eliminated 
Da’esh and extended operations all the way to Al-Rai, 
where  Da’esh  was  repelled.  The  local  inhabitants  of 
Jarabulus  were  resettled,  as  were  those  from  Al-Rai. 
From  A’zaz  to  the  Euphrates,  the  entire  region  was 
saved from becoming a belt of terrorism. Instead, it was 
converted  into  a  belt  of  peace.  The  operation  we  are 
conducting  today  has  the  eventual  goal  of  protecting 
that safe zone and ensuring that it is in fact safe.
The people of Jarabulus were saved from the grip 
of the terrorists and are confident in returning to their 
homes.  The  electrical  and  water  infrastructure  will 
be  made  operational  immediately.  The  Turkish  Red 
Crescent,  Turkish  humanitarian  aid  organizations  and 
all  of  the  other  non-governmental  organizations  have 
mobilized  to  meet  the  needs  of  the  local  inhabitants. 
All of the civil facilities needed by the local inhabitants 
will be constructed in the near future. In order to make 
that  possible,  the  areas  officially  designated  as  safe 
zones should also be declared as no-fly zones. We must 
maintain a firm stand so as to ensure that a no-fly zone 
will be established for the protection and security of the 
region’s inhabitants.
It is unfortunate that the ceasefire, a process that 
has  received  enormous  investment,  has  failed.  As  is 
clear,  a  ceasefire  is  no  longer  possible.  Yesterday,  a 
United  Nations  convoy  was  attacked  by  the  regime’s 
forces, resulting in the death of one person and many 
others injured.
The  Syrian  regime  has  not  allowed  aid  deliveries 
supervised by the United Nations to reach the people of 
Aleppo, who are in dire need. They are also attacking 
United  Nations  convoys.  The  regime  is  condemning 
people to famine and suffering, in order to encourage 
them to surrender or to die. The United Nations and the 
Security Council should no longer tolerate the regime’s 
policies.
In Iraq it is clear that it will not be easy to establish 
a  political  system  to  effectively  protect  its  ethnic 
and  sectarian  diversity,  which  makes  up  the  greatest 
underlying strength of the country. Within that context, 
the Mosul operation should be conducted by taking into 
consideration the sensitivities of the people of the region. 
Otherwise,  a  new  humanitarian  crisis  will  emerge, 
leading  to  the  influx  of  yet  another  1  million  people 
seeking refuge in other countries. We cannot leave the 
Iraqi  people  alone  at  this  critical  juncture,  when  they 
need the support of the international community now 
more than ever.
Allowing  the  Palestinian  people  to  live  in  an 
independent  Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital, based on the two-State solution, is an obligation 
of the international community to Palestinian children, 
if  nothing  else.  Israel,  especially,  should  respect 
the  sanctity  of  the  Temple  Mount  and  put  an  end  to 
violations of its status.
We will try to benefit from our normalized relations 
with  Israel  to  facilitate  the  peace  process  and  resolve 
the economic and humanitarian challenges faced by our 
Palestinian brothers and sisters through every possible 
effort.  In  that  vein,  we  will  continue  our  efforts  to 
deliver humanitarian assistance to the Gaza Strip.
That brings me to a very important point. The World 
Humanitarian Summit was held in May, in Turkey, for 
46/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
the  first  time  in  history.  We  consider  that  Summit  to 
have provided an important opportunity to explore new 
ways  of  more  effective  crisis  intervention  around  the 
world.  In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to  be  clear  in 
my remarks. With respect to providing support to the 
least developed countries around the world, Turkey, the 
United Kingdom and the United States rank among the 
top three donors. But in the ratio comparing the amount 
of humanitarian aid to gross domestic product, Turkey 
is ranked number one in the world.
We  are  the  country  housing  the  most  significant 
number of refugees around the world, and we are doing 
everything within our ability to stop irregular migration. 
Upon Turkey’s initiative, the subject of Syrian refugees 
was  addressed  by  the  General  Assembly  last  year  for 
the first time. Similarly, migration and terrorism were 
incorporated  into  the  Group  of  20  agenda,  thanks 
to  Turkey’s  efforts.  We  are  cooperating  with  the 
European  Union  on  the  refugee  crisis  to  the  greatest 
extent possible.
Based  on  the  goal  of  preventing  deaths  in  the 
Aegean  Sea,  we  have  succeeded  in  reducing  the 
irregular  migration  number  to  50  people  per  day; 
whereas,  in  October  2015,  that  number  had  reached 
7,000 per day. That shows that Turkey has successfully 
fulfilled its commitments under the framework of the 
refugee  agreement  with  the  EU.  However,  we  regret 
that  the  promises  made  by  the  EU  in  the  context  of 
the agreement of 18 March have been forgotten, while 
ongoing false pretexts prevail and excuses are all that 
we hear.
The Security Council must be reformed to improve 
the  effectiveness  of  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding. 
We fully appreciate Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s 
progress  in  that  respect.  Furthermore,  it  is  obvious 
that,  unless  the  Security  Council,  as  the  main  organ 
responsible for the maintenance of international peace 
and security, is reformed, such efforts will be in vain 
and the task will remain unfulfilled.
That is why we say that the world is greater than the 
five permanent members. We have been reminding the 
international community of that fact over and over again 
with  every  chance  we  get.  The  Security  Council  was 
established in the aftermath of the Second World War. 
One cannot preserve the same structure of the Council 
under the circumstances of modern times. One cannot 
condemn  the  fate  of  the  rest  of  the  world  to  depend 
on  what  the  five  permanent  members  in  the  Security 
Council say. There are five permanent seat-holders and 
10 non-permanent seat-holders in the Security Council. 
That is not a proper Security Council. A Council that 
does not represent the entire world can never serve to 
re-establish peace and justice around the world. That is 
something that we need to revisit over and over again. 
Can  everyone  think  about  that  —  three  European 
countries,  one  country  in  Asia  and  one  country,  the 
United States of America, of course — five countries 
as the permanent seat-holders? What about the rest of 
the world? What about the other countries around the 
world? They have remained on the sidelines. We ignore 
them.
Instead,  why  not  have  20  countries  as  permanent 
seat-holders in the Security Council, under a rotational 
system? In that system, each country would, deservedly, 
be  represented  on  the  Security  Council  every  year 
or  every  two  years.  That  is  the  only  way  to  establish 
fairness  and  justice.  The  representative  nature  of  the 
Security  Council  should  be  established  so  that  the 
organ will be much more effective, more just.
In  order  for  that  to  be  possible,  the  General 
Assembly has to reach complete consensus. Please do 
not even consider remaining silent, or else we cannot 
achieve  anything.  We  cannot  succeed  in  our  policies. 
We  have  to  engage  in  spying,  so  to  say.  We  have  to 
be strong. We have to stand on our two feet, and talk 
about the truth and nothing but the truth. We have to 
stand behind the truth. We are the politicians. Only in 
that way can the world attain the level of justice that it 
yearns for. This is the only way to achieve democracy.
Islamophobia  is  an  alternate  name  for  racism 
and  discrimination.  We  see  it  prevailing  in  countries 
with  a  large  Muslim  population.  About  a  decade  ago, 
along  with  the  then  Prime  Minister  of  Spain,  we 
co-chaired the initiative of the United Nations Alliance 
of  Civilizations  project  that  aimed  to  find  permanent 
solutions  to  such  dangerous  movements  that  threaten 
our prosperity around the world. Similarly, we are also 
glad that interest in the Mediation for Peace Initiative 
that we pioneered along with Finland in 2010 under the 
auspices of the United Nations has increased.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
which  we  have  jointly  developed,  includes  ambitious 
and transformative goals for us all. Official development 
assistance  makes  up  the  most  important  resource 
for  supporting  development  efforts,  notably  for  the 
least  developed  countries  (LDCs).  Turkey’s  official 
16-29296
47/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
development assistance reached $3.9 billion in 2015. As I 
have previously mentioned, the 0.54 per cent of our gross 
domestic  product,  which  is  the  ratio  of  humanitarian 
aid  that  we  provide,  is  beyond  the  Organization  for 
Economic  Cooperation  and  Development  average  and 
helps us approach the United Nations target, which is 
0.7 per cent. Turkey has surpassed its commitment to 
provide  $200  million  annually  to  LDCs  in  2011,  and 
has delivered more than $1.5 billion to LDCs in a mere 
five-year period.
Before  concluding  my  remarks,  I  hope  and  pray 
that the seventy-first session of the General Assembly 
will be the beginning of a new age to alleviate the pain 
and  suffering  of  people  around  the  world,  and  that  it 
will help us change our world.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of Turkey for the statement he has just made.
His  Excellency  Mr.  Recep  Tayyip  Erdoğan, 
President of the Republic of Turkey, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
The President took the Chair.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Josaia Voreqe 
Bainimarama, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Fiji
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Josaia  Voreqe 
Bainimarama, Prime Minister of the Republic of Fiji.
Mr. Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Fiji, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr. Josaia  Voreqe  Bainimarama,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Republic  of  Fiji,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
Mr. Bainimarama (Fiji): This is a special moment 
for Fiji as you, Sir, assume the presidency of the General 
Assembly at its seventy-first session — the first Fijian 
and the first Pacific Islander to attain this high Office at 
the United Nations. Your nation is honoured and proud. 
On behalf of every Fijian, I offer you, Mr. President, my 
warmest congratulations and wish you every success as 
you guide our deliberations over the next 12 months.
I want to thank those nations that supported Fiji’s 
bid  for  the  presidency,  including  our  neighbours  and 
friends  among  the  Pacific  small  island  developing 
States. I also thank Mr. Mogens Lykketoft of Denmark 
for his leadership during the seventieth session.
Fiji  fully  supports  the  agenda  that  you,  Sir,  have 
outlined  for  the  coming  session,  which  seeks  to 
persuade  the  world  to  begin  implementing  the  2030 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  that  the  193  Member 
States adopted last year. As you rightly stated, Sir, when 
you  took  your  oath  of  office  last  week,  the  seventy-
first session must, for integrity’s sake, be the year that 
we  witness  the  wheels  turning.  We  have  collectively 
pledged  to  mobilize  the  global  community  to  end  all 
forms  of  poverty,  fight  inequality  and  tackle  climate 
change. And we have pledged that, as we do so, we will 
leave no one behind, wherever they live on the planet. 
That is our promise to the 7.5 billion people across the 
world,  whose  interests  we  represent.  It  is  a  promise 
that must be kept — a “universal push to transform our 
world”, as the theme of this session puts it.
A centrepiece of the seventy-first session and one 
of  our  most  critical  priorities  is  the  high-level  United 
Nations Conference to Support the Implementation of 
Sustainable Development Goal 14, which is to be held 
in  New  York  next  June  on  the  theme  “Conserve  and 
sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for 
sustainable development”. Fiji is proud to be co-hosting 
that gathering with Sweden, and I ask everyone to give 
that  initiative  their  full  support.  The  world  must  act 
quickly  and  decisively  to  reverse  the  environmental 
degradation  of  our  oceans  and  seas,  and  the  reckless 
and irresponsible use of those precious resources.
For  a  small  island  developing  State  such  as  Fiji, 
that is as pressing as the need to address the challenges 
of  climate  change  and  deal  with  the  extreme  weather 
events and rising seas that pose such a threat to our way 
of life in the small island developing States and other 
vulnerable parts of the world. Many millions of people 
in maritime and coastal communities the world over are 
looking to us for decisive action to address the growing 
crisis of population, pollution, overfishing and the loss 
of marine habitats.We must not fail them.
Fiji also comes to the seventy-first session with a 
plea to all nations that have yet to do so to ratify the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  We  are  proud 
to have been the first nation in the world to ratify the 
Agreement  and  launch  the  ratification  instruments. 
But  we  also  come  with  the  message  that  Paris  must 
be merely the first step. We are alarmed by scientific 
48/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
predictions  that  the  2°C  cap  on  global  warming  over 
pre-industrial levels agreed to in Paris is not enough to 
save us.
Seven  months  ago,  the  Fijian  people  were  given 
a  terrifying  glimpse  into  the  future  that  the  experts 
say  awaits  us  when  we  were  struck  by  the  biggest 
tropical cyclone ever to make landfall in the southern 
hemisphere, Cyclone Winston. Packing winds of more 
than 300 kilometres an hour, it killed 44 of our people 
and  left  many  thousands  homeless.  Mercifully,  it 
spared our main tourism areas — our principal source 
of  income —  so  our  wider  community  and  our  wider 
economy  remained  intact.  But  if  this  is  what  awaits 
us as global warming triggers weather events that are 
more frequent and more extreme, then God help us.
In  common  with  other  small  island  developing 
States, we face a nightmare scenario in which a single 
event scoring a direct hit could wipe out our economy, 
set us back for decades and make it impossible for us to 
meet the Sustainable Development Goals. Our message 
from  the  Pacific  therefore  is  this:  the  2°C  cap  is  not 
enough. We need the world to go one better and embrace 
the 1.5°C cap that we, members of the Pacific Islands 
Development Forum, called for in the Suva Declaration 
on Sustainable Human Development in the Pacific.
We also need deeper cuts in carbon emissions and 
more decisive global action than what we are currently 
witnessing. But as a first step, I appeal to all Member 
States  to  ratify  the  Paris  Agreement  and  to  turn 
away  from  what  I  have  termed  “the  coalition  of  the 
selfish”  —  those  countries  that  would  see  vulnerable 
nations battered and submerged rather than alter their 
pampered, carbon-driven lifestyles.
I  am  proud  to  report  that  Fiji  is  heeding  the 
President’s  call  to  implement  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development. First and foremost, we have 
placed  sustainable  development  at  the  core  of  our 
national agenda. The Green Growth Framework for Fiji, 
which I launched in 2015, is a blueprint for the future 
direction  of  our  nation.  It  has  been  incorporated  into 
our  new  five-year  and  20-year  national  development 
plans that we will be unveiling in the coming months. 
These plans stipulate that no development whatsoever 
in Fiji will be permitted unless it can be conclusively 
demonstrated 
the 
preservation of our natural environment on land and at 
sea as our number-one priority. We are willing to make 
to  be  sustainable.  We  regard 
sacrifices to fulfil our solemn duty to the Fijian people 
to preserve their surroundings.
Article 40, paragraph 1, of our Constitution gives 
every Fijian the right to
“a clean and healthy environment, which includes 
the right to have the natural world protected for the 
benefit of present and future generations”.
I make a solemn pledge to my own people and to the 
wider  global  community  that,  while  my  Government 
remains  in  office,  Fiji  will  never  be  among  the  ranks 
of  those  nations  that  have  compromised  their  futures 
for  short-term  financial  gain.  We  intend  to  raise  our 
living standards by other means, especially by making 
things that other people want to buy and by providing 
services they want to access. We are taking the Fijian-
made  brand  of  quality  products  and  services  to  the 
four corners of the Earth and managing our economy 
responsibly  in  accordance  with  international  best 
practices, with a particular emphasis on infrastructure 
development,  service  delivery  and  providing  for  the 
less fortunate.
Of  prime  importance  is  our  education  revolution, 
by  which  we  are  equipping  Fijian  young  people  with 
the knowledge and skills to have satisfying, sustainable 
livelihoods  and  contribute  to  our  nation’s  progress. 
We are providing free schooling for the first time and 
have  established  our  first  tertiary  loan  scheme  and 
more scholarships for gifted students in order to open 
up  a  gateway  of  unprecedented  opportunity  to  our 
universities  and  a  new  network  of  technical  colleges. 
We  have  set  our  sights  higher  than  ever  before  to 
become  a  smarter,  more  dynamic  country  at  the  hub 
of  the  Pacific,  the  crossroads  of  our  region,  and  to 
evolve  into  a  modern  nation  State  that  is  a  beacon  to 
our neighbours and respected around the world.
I am pleased to report that we have made a strong 
start as a nation on the long but determined journey to 
achieve that goal. Not only are our people being given 
more opportunity than at any time in our history, not 
only  are  we  creating  a  more  equitable  society,  which 
includes targeted assistance for the vulnerable and the 
country’s first pension scheme, but Fiji is also currently 
experiencing a record period of economic growth, with 
seven straight years of expansion.
Even in the wake of Cyclone Winston, we expect to 
see growth of nearly 3 per cent this year. Our message 
to  the  world  is  simple:  Fiji  is  open  for  business.  Fiji 
16-29296
49/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
has  attractive  incentives  for  investment  and  some 
of  the  most  favourable  corporate  and  personal  tax 
rates  in  the  Pacific  region.  We  have  state-of-the-art 
communications  and  an  educated,  English-speaking 
work force. We are investing in new roads, airports and 
other  infrastructure  and  have  dramatically  improved 
the efficiency of our ports. We also have our pristine 
environment,  spectacular 
islands,  coastlines  and 
waters.  In  addition,  our  standard  of  hospitality  has 
made the Fijian people famous the world over.
We  market  ourselves  to  the  world  as  a  holiday 
destination  with  the  slogan  “Fiji  —  where  happiness 
finds  you”.  Whatever  the  challenges  of  Cyclone 
Winston,  I  can  confidently  say  that  the  Fijian  people 
have never been happier. The joy that erupted when our 
world-champion rugby sevens team won the gold medal 
at the Rio Olympics was shared by every Fijian. It has 
brought  us  together  in  celebration  and  seen  us  more 
unified in recent weeks than at any other time in our 
history. It has also inspired us to imagine what else our 
small nation can do if we put our minds to it.
As many in the Assembly are aware, we have had 
considerable  challenges  through  the  years  in  forging 
a  common  identity  and  producing  an  equal  and  just 
society for every citizen, but I am here to say that those 
days are over. As Fiji approaches its first half-century 
as  an  independent  nation  in  2020,  we  are  finally  one 
nation,  one  people,  with  a  great  sense  of  national 
optimism and a great deal to look forward to.
To  reflect  our  new-found  confidence,  we  are  also 
in  the  process  of  re-evaluating  our  relationships  with 
the rest of the world. Last week, I assumed the position 
of  Foreign  Minister  as  well  as  Prime  Minister,  and  I 
intend  to  steadily  reform  this  Ministry  and  to  refine 
certain  aspects  of  our  foreign  policy  to  give  it  a  new 
direction and a renewed sense of purpose.
First and foremost, we are going to place trade at the 
centre of our foreign-policy effort, with the promotion 
of  the  impressive  collection  of  quality  products  and 
services  under  the  Fijian-made  brand.  Some  of  these 
products  and  services  are  already  making  a  global 
impact, but we believe we can do a lot more — whether 
it  is  our  water,  our  cosmetics,  foodstuffs  and  other 
manufactured  goods,  the  more  efficient  marketing  of 
Fiji as a prime holiday destination, or by spreading the 
wings  of  our  boutique  national  airline,  Fiji  Airways, 
flying to other destinations in the Asia-Pacific region 
and beyond.
We  intend  to  immediately  boost  the  level  of 
collaboration  between  our  Foreign  Ministry  and  our 
Ministry  of  Industry,  Trade  and  Tourism,  which  have 
too often operated in isolation. Our diplomats and trade 
commissioners will be instructed to make it a priority 
to work more closely with Fijian exporters to promote 
the Fijian-made brand, as well as to access goods and 
services  of  international  standards  from  new  and  old 
trading partners that benefit Fijian consumers.
More  broadly,  we  are  rethinking  some  of  our 
foreign  policy  positions  and  objectives.  This  includes 
a re-evaluation of the central principle of Fijian foreign 
policy  for  some  years  of  being  “friends  to  all  and 
enemies to none”.
Of course, we seek friendly relations with all nations 
and are certainly not in the business of making enemies. 
But we intend, in future, to choose our friends in a more 
discerning manner and to align ourselves more closely 
with  those  countries  that  share  our  underlying  values 
and principles. These include, above all, adherence to 
international  law  and  adherence  to  human  rights  and 
human dignity, along with other shared values such as 
mutual respect, respect for sovereignty and territorial 
integrity, the resolving of disputes by peaceful means 
and non-interference in one another’s internal affairs.
This  change  of  direction  will  not  be  sudden.  It  is 
certainly  not  going  to  produce  a  dramatic  change  in 
the  international  company  that  Fiji  keeps.  But  we  are 
definitely  seeking  closer  relations  with  nations  that 
share  our  values  and  basic  outlook,  especially  those 
nations  that  respect  human  life  and  the  rights  and 
dignity of their citizens, adhere to the principle of social 
justice, uphold the rule of law and insist on equality and 
respect for all human beings, as we in Fiji do.
As part of our wider commitment to human rights, 
we  are  seeking  membership  in  the  Human  Rights 
Council for the two-year term that commences in 2018. 
We  would  be  the  first  Pacific  nation  to  serve  on  the 
Council, and I ask all member States to support our bid.
Fiji  will  continue  to  play  a  disproportionate  role 
in  the  international  community  in  relation  to  its  size, 
whether  it  be  our  continuing  commitment  to  United 
Nations peacekeeping and sending our men and women 
in uniform to protect ordinary people in troubled parts 
of the world, or our lead role in drawing global attention 
to the urgent need for action on climate change.
50/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
It is certainly a proud moment for me, as the leader 
of  our  small  nation,  to  stand  here  before  the  nations 
of the world with you, Sir, behind me, as President of 
the General Assembly. Congratulations again on your 
appointment.  I  thank  you  for  bringing  such  honour 
to  our  nation.  Every  Fijian  —  indeed,  the  entire 
community of nations — wishes you well as you preside 
over the deliberations of this seventy-first session and 
the great issues of our time on which the future of the 
world depends.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Fiji for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Fiji, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mrs. Theresa May, Prime Minister 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Mrs.  Theresa  May,  Prime  Minister  of  the  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
Her Excellency Mrs. Theresa May, Prime Minister of the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
and inviting her to address the General Assembly.
Mrs. May (United Kingdom): It is a great honour 
for  me  to  address  the  General  Assembly  for  the  first 
time and to do so as Prime Minister of a country that 
has always been a proud and proactive member at the 
very heart of the United Nations.
The  United  Nations  was  formed  because  leaders 
across the world knew that they could deliver security 
for their citizens at home only if they could cooperate 
as a community of nations to deliver security across the 
globe. Some of the threats that we face together today 
are  familiar  to  those  founding  leaders:  war,  political 
instability,  abuses  of  human  rights  and  poverty. 
Others  are  new:  global  terrorism,  climate  change  and 
unprecedented mass movements of people.
We gather here today because we know that such 
challenges do not respect the borders of our individual 
nations  and  that  only  by  working  together  shall  we 
overcome them. As a new Prime Minister to the United 
Kingdom, my pledge to the United Nations is simple. 
The  United  Kingdom  will  be  a  confident,  strong  and 
dependable partner internationally, true to the universal 
values that we share together. We will continue to honour 
our  commitment  to  spend  0.7  of  our  gross  national 
income on development, building on the achievements 
that  we  have  already  made  to  reduce  poverty,  deal 
with instability and increase prosperity the world over, 
and  we  will  drive  forward  the  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
We will continue to champion the rights of women 
and girls, making sure that all girls get the education 
they deserve and tackling horrific abuses such as female 
genital  mutilation  and  the  use  of  sexual  violence  in 
conflict. We will continue to be a steadfast permanent 
member  of  the  Security  Council,  meeting  our  NATO 
commitment  to  spend  2  per  cent  of  gross  domestic 
product on defence and making a leading contribution 
to United Nations peacekeeping efforts, where we have 
doubled our commitment, including new deployments 
to Somalia and South Sudan.
We  will  continue  to  stand  up  for  the  rules-based 
international system and for international law, and I join 
other leaders in condemning the outrageous bombing of 
the aid convoy in Syria yesterday. We will continue to 
play our part in the international effort against climate 
change, and, in a demonstration of our commitment to 
the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  the  United 
Kingdom  will  start  its  domestic  procedures  to  enable 
ratification of the Paris Agreement and complete these 
before  the  end  of  the  year.  And  we  will  continue  to 
strengthen  our  existing  partnerships,  from  the  United 
Nations to the Commonwealth and to NATO, seeking 
to resolve conflict in countries across the world, from 
Colombia and Cyprus to Somalia and Yemen.
But  we  must  never  forget  that  we  stand  here  at 
the United Nations as servants of the men and women 
that we represent back at home. As we do so, we must 
recognize that for too many of these men and women, 
the  increasing  pace  of  globalization  has  left  them 
feeling  left  behind.  The  challenge  for  those  of  us  in 
this  Hall  is  to  ensure  that  our  Governments  and  our 
global  institutions  such  as  the  United  Nations  remain 
responsive  to  the  people  we  serve,  and  that  we  are 
capable of adapting our institutions to the demands of 
the  twenty-first  century  and  of  ensuring  that  they  do 
not become irrelevant.
So  when  it  comes  the  big  security  and  human 
rights challenges of our time, we need this, our United 
16-29296
51/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
Nations, to forge a bold new multilateralism, because, 
as we have seen even in the past week, no country is 
untouched by the threat of global terrorism, and when 
extremists  anywhere  in  the  world  can  transmit  their 
poisonous  ideologies  directly  into  the  bedrooms  of 
people  vulnerable  to  radicalization,  we  need  not  just 
work  together  to  prevent  conflict  and  instability  in 
nation States, but to act globally to disrupt the networks 
that  terrorist  groups  use  to  finance  operations  and 
recruit to their ranks.
When we see the mass displacement of people on a 
scale unprecedented in recent history, we must ensure 
that we are implementing the policies that are fit for the 
challenges we face today. And when criminal gangs do 
not respect our national borders, trafficking our fellow 
citizens into lives of slavery and servitude, we cannot 
let  those  borders  act  as  a  barrier  to  bringing  such 
criminals to justice.
In each of these areas, it is the convening power of 
our United Nations that gives us a unique opportunity 
to respond. But we can do so only if we modernize and 
adapt to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. 
As  a  United  Nations  we  have  shown  how  we  can 
work  together  to  reduce  the  threat  of  international 
terrorism  by  preventing  conflict  and  instability  from 
developing. For example, as a permanent member of the 
Security Council, Britain has played a leading role in the 
fight against Al-Shabaab in Somalia. Since 2010, with 
huge support from across the region and, critically, the 
commitment  of  Somalis  themselves,  Al-Shabaab  has 
been driven from all the major cities it used to control.
It  is  vital  that  as  an  international  community  we 
continue  to  support  countries  in  the  region  that  are 
contributing thousands of troops, and that we continue 
to  build  the  capacity  of  Somali  security  forces.  That 
is  why  the  United  Kingdom  is  now  going  to  increase 
further  our  security  support,  and  we  will  be  calling 
on  others  to  do  the  same,  hosting  an  international 
conference  on  Somalia  in  2017,  to  maintain  this  vital 
momentum. Missions like this must remain central to 
the work of the United Nations, but on their own they 
are  not  enough,  because  the  terrorist  threats  we  face 
today  do  not  come  from  one  country  but  rather  exist 
in a different space. The global networks they exploit 
require a different kind of global response.
These  organizations  are  using  our  own  modern 
banking networks against us. We therefore need to look 
at our regulations and information-sharing and use our 
technological  capabilities  to  get  ahead  of  them.  They 
are targeting our airlines, exploiting the fact that no one 
country can keep its citizens safe when they are flying 
between multiple jurisdictions. That is why this week 
the  United  Nations  will  vote  on  a  United  Kingdom-
led draft resolution on aviation security so that every 
country  implements  the  standards  we  need  to  ensure 
that no country is the weak link.
They are exploiting the Internet and social media 
to spread an ideology that is recruiting people to their 
cause  all  over  the  world.  We  therefore  need  to  tackle 
this ideology head-on. That is why the United Kingdom 
has  championed  the  work  that  the  Secretary-General 
has  led  to  develop  a  strategy  for  preventing  violent 
extremism.  Now,  as  an  international  community,  we 
must  work  together  to  adopt  and  implement  the  most 
comprehensive national action plans to tackle both the 
causes  and  the  symptoms  of  all  extremism.  It  is  not 
enough merely to focus on violent extremism. We need 
to address the whole spectrum of extremism — violent 
extremism  and  non-violent  extremism,  Islamist  and 
neo-Nazi, hate and fear in all their forms.
Just  as  we  need  the  United  Nations  to  modernize 
to meet the challenges of terrorism in the twenty-first 
century,  so  too  must  we  adapt  if  we  are  to  fashion  a 
truly global response to the mass movements of people 
across  the  world  and  its  implications  for  security  and 
human  rights.  The  1951  Convention  relating  to  the 
Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol must remain 
the bedrock of our response, but the context in which 
they must be applied has dramatically changed.
Across  the  world  today,  there  are  65  million 
people  who  have  been  forcibly  displaced.  That  is 
the  equivalent  of  the  entire  population  of  the  United 
Kingdom.  It  is  an  unprecedented  figure,  one  that  has 
almost  doubled  in  a  decade.  And  yet  United  Nations 
appeals are underfunded, host countries are not getting 
enough  support  and  refugees  are  not  getting  the  aid, 
education  and  economic  opportunities  they  need.  We 
must do more. As the second-largest bilateral provider 
of  assistance,  the  United  Kingdom  remains  fully 
committed to playing a leading role.
In  the  past  five  years,  the  United  Kingdom  has 
invested  over  $9  billion  in  humanitarian  assistance, 
saving  millions  of  lives  every  year.  The  London 
Conference  on  Syria  in  February  raised  $12  billion 
in  pledges,  the  largest  amount  ever  raised  in  one  day 
in  response  to  a  humanitarian  crisis.  And  that  money 
52/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
is  being  used  to  combine  both  urgent  humanitarian 
assistance and vital economic development, benefiting 
both  refugees  and  the  communities  and  countries 
hosting them. Clearly, we need to continue our efforts to 
bring an end to the conflict and the appalling slaughter 
in Syria and to get aid through to those who need it.
While  these  efforts  continue  inside  Syria,  we 
also  need  new  efforts  to  support  refugees  and  host 
communities  in  neighbouring  countries,  including 
through  education  and  opportunities  to  work.  These 
efforts  are  complemented  by  loans  from  international 
financial institutions and access to European markets. 
Through our trading relationships and direct engagement 
with businesses, we are mobilizing the private sector to 
create new jobs in the region for everyone. While there 
is more to be done, it is this approach to financing both 
humanitarian support and economic development that I 
will be championing when I announce a further United 
Kingdom  financial  contribution  at  President  Obama’s 
leaders’ summit on the global refugee crisis later today.
But  in  addition  to  refugees  and  displaced  people 
fleeing  conflict  and  persecution,  we  are  also  seeing 
an  unprecedented  movement  of  people  in  search  of 
greater  economic  opportunities  through  the  same 
unmanaged channels. That affects all of us, and it is the 
responsibility of us all to take action. We cannot ignore 
the  challenge  or  allow  it  to  continue  unmanaged.  We 
need to do better — for the countries people leave, for 
the countries they move through, for the countries they 
try to get to — and most of all, better for the migrants 
and refugees themselves.
Despite the huge increase in international efforts, 
more migrants have died attempting hazardous journeys 
across  borders  this  year  than  any  other.  I  believe  we 
have to use the opportunity afforded by this session of 
the  General  Assembly  for  an  honest  global  debate  to 
address this global challenge.
In doing so, we should be clear that there is nothing 
wrong with the desire to migrate for a better life and 
that controlled, legal, safe, economic migration brings 
benefits to our economies. But countries have to be able 
to exercise control over their borders. The failure to do 
so erodes public confidence, fuels international crime, 
damages economies and reduces the resources for those 
who genuinely need protection and whose rights under 
the  Refugee  Convention  should  always  be  fulfilled.  I 
believe there are three fundamental principles that we 
now  need  to  establish  at  the  heart  of  a  new  approach 
to  managing  migration  that  is  in  the  interests  of  all 
those involved.
First of all, we must help ensure that refugees claim 
asylum in the first safe country they reach. The current 
trend  of  onward  movements,  where  refugees  reach  a 
safe country but then press on with their journey, can 
only  benefit  criminal  gangs  and  expose  refugees  to 
grave danger. We must therefore all do more to support 
countries where the refugees first arrive, to provide the 
necessary protection and assistance for refugees safely 
and  swiftly  and  to  help  countries  adapt  to  the  huge 
economic  impact  that  refugees  can  have —  including 
on their existing population.
As we are seeing in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, 
when  the  right  assistance  is  provided,  solutions  that 
provide  sanctuary  and  opportunity  to  refugees,  and 
opportunities  for  those  hosting  them,  can  be  found. 
This is also good for the refugees and the countries they 
come from — because the closer they stay to home, the 
easier  it  will  be  for  them  to  return  and  rebuild  after 
the conflict.
Secondly,  we  need  to  improve  the  ways  we 
distinguish  between  refugees  fleeing  persecution  and 
economic  migrants.  I  believe  we  must  ensure  that 
the  existing  Convention  and  Protocol  are  properly 
applied  to  provide  protection  to  refugees  and  reduce 
the  incentives  for  economic  migrants  to  use  illegal 
routes. This in turn will help us target support for those 
refugees who need it most and retain the support of our 
populations for doing so.
Thirdly,  we  need  a  better  overall  approach  to 
managing economic migration — one that recognizes 
that  all  countries  have  the  right  to  control  their 
borders —  and  that  we  must  all  commit  to  accepting 
the  return  of  our  own  nationals  when  they  have  no 
right  to  remain  elsewhere.  By  ensuring  a  managed 
and  controlled  international  migration  response  while 
simultaneously  investing  to  tackle  the  underlying 
drivers of displacement and migration at source, we can 
reject isolationism and xenophobia, thereby achieving 
better outcomes for all of our citizens, particularly for 
the most vulnerable.
Finally,  as  we  gather  here  today  to  bring  the 
founding values of the United Nations to bear on some 
of the most pressing global problems, the likes of which 
we  have  never  seen  before,  we  must  also  face  up  to 
the  fact  that  some  of  the  worst  human  rights  abuses, 
which  we  thought  we  had  consigned  to  the  history 
16-29296
53/56
A/71/PV.8 
20/09/2016
books, have re-emerged in new, pernicious forms. The 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, proclaimed by 
the General Assembly, stated that all human beings are 
born free and equal in dignity and rights, that no one 
should be held in slavery and servitude and that slavery 
and  the  slave  trade  should  be  prohibited  in  all  their 
forms. Yet, nearly 70 years on, we are presented with 
a  new  form  of  slavery  —  modern  slavery.  Organized 
crime  groups,  which  are  largely  behind  this  modern 
slavery, lure, dupe and force innocent men, women and 
children into extreme forms of exploitation. Trafficked 
and sold across borders, victims are forced into living 
the kind of inhumane existence that is almost too much 
for our imagination.
Such criminals have global networks to help them 
make money out of some of the world’s most vulnerable 
people. Victims are held captive in squalid conditions, 
under the constant shadow of violence and forced into 
sex and labour exploitation. If we are going to succeed 
in  stamping  out  this  abhorrent  crime  and  bring  the 
perpetrators to justice, we need to confront the reality 
of  what  were  are  dealing  with.  These  organized-
crime  groups  work  across  borders  and  jurisdictions. 
They often use the Internet and modern technology to 
recruit, transport, control and exploit their victims, all 
the while staying ahead of legal systems that are often 
constrained by traditional geographical boundaries.
We  must  therefore  take  action.  We  must  use  our 
international law-enforcement networks to track down 
these criminals wherever they are in the world and put 
them  behind  bars,  where  they  belong.  We  need  to  be 
smarter  and  even  more  coordinated  than  the  criminal 
gangs  in  our  efforts  to  stop  them.  In  the  United 
Kingdom,  I  am  setting  up  the  first-ever  Government 
task force for modern slavery, bringing together every 
relevant  department  to  coordinate  and  drive  all  our 
efforts  in  the  battle  against  this  cruel  exploitation. 
We are also using our aid budget to create a dedicated 
fund  focused  on  high-risk  countries  where  we  know 
victims are regularly trafficked to the United Kingdom. 
Yesterday,  I  committed  the  first  £5  million  from  that 
fund to work in Nigeria, to reduce the vulnerability of 
potential  victims  and  step  up  the  fight  against  those 
who seek to profit from this crime.
But if we are to meet the Sustainable Development 
Goal to eradicate modern slavery, we need to go much 
further. Security relationships have developed between 
many countries for dealing with such issues as counter-
terrorism,  cybersecurity,  drug  trafficking  and  wider 
intelligence-sharing,  but  we  do  not  have  a  similar 
relationship  for  the  fight  against  modern  slavery.  We 
therefore  need  our  law-enforcement  agencies  to  work 
together, with joint investigation teams working across 
multiple  countries.  Victims  will  find  freedom  only  if 
we  cultivate  a  radically  new,  global  and  coordinated 
approach  to  defeating  this  vile  crime.  Together,  we 
must  work  tirelessly  to  preserve  the  freedoms  and 
values  that  have  defined  our  United  Nations  from  its 
inception. Together, we must work tirelessly to restore 
these  freedoms  and  values  to  the  lives  of  the  men, 
women  and  children  who  are  exploited  for  profit  and 
held captive with little or no chance of escape.
From  the  Declaration  of  St.  James’s  Palace  and 
the Atlantic Charter forged by Winston Churchill and 
President Roosevelt to the first meeting of the General 
Assembly  in  London  in  1946,  the  United  Kingdom 
has always been an outward-looking, global partner at 
the  heart  of  international  efforts  to  secure  peace  and 
prosperity for all our peoples. And that is how we will 
remain. For when the British people voted to leave the 
European Union, they did not vote to turn inwards or 
walk away from any of our partners in the world. Faced 
with  challenges  like  migration,  a  desire  for  greater 
control  of  their  country  and  a  mounting  sense  that 
globalization  is  leaving  working  people  behind,  they 
demanded  a  politics  that  is  more  in  touch  with  their 
concerns and bold action to address them.
But that action must be more global, not less, because 
the biggest threats to our prosperity and security do not 
recognize  or  respect  international  borders.  And  if  we 
focus  only  on  what  we  do  at  home,  the  job  is  barely 
half done. This is not the time to turn away from our 
United Nations. It is the time to turn towards it. Only 
we, as members of this community of nations, can act 
to ensure that this great institution becomes as relevant 
for our future as it has been in our past.
Let us therefore come together, true to our founding 
values but responsive to the challenges of today, and let 
us work together to build a safer, more prosperous and 
more humane world for generations to come.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for the 
statement she has just made.
Mrs.  Theresa  May,  Prime  Minister  of  the  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
54/56 
16-29296
20/09/2016 
A/71/PV.8
Address by Mr. Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister 
of Canada
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of Canada.
Mr.  Justin  Trudeau,  Prime  Minister  of  Canada, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of 
Canada, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Trudeau  (Canada):  It  is  an  honour  to  be 
present at the General Assembly today. It is wonderful 
to be here in the great city of New York. Once again this 
week, New Yorkers showed us how to be resilient and 
resolute in the face of violent extremism. On behalf of 
everyone in this Hall, let me directly say to the people 
of  New  York  that  they  are  a  model  to  the  rest  of  the 
world, and we thank them.
Exactly  one  year  ago,  Canada  was  in  the  middle 
of a long — 78 days on the road, and I can assure the 
Assembly that, in Canada, there are 78 days’ worth of 
roads — and closely fought election campaign. It is the 
responsibility of a leader to spend time with the people 
they  are  elected  to  serve.  To  get  the  real  stories,  it  is 
important  to  go  where  people  live:  coffee  shops  and 
church basements, mosques and synagogues, farmers’ 
markets and public parks. It was in those places that I got 
the best sense of what Canadians were thinking and how 
they were doing and, through the politeness — because 
we  Canadians  are  always  polite  even  when  we  are 
complaining — I learned a few things.
I talked with people my age who were trying to be 
hopeful about their future but found it tough to make 
ends  meet,  even  when  they  were  working  full-time.  I 
heard from young Canadians who were frustrated, who 
told me that they could not get a job because they do 
not  have  work  experience  but  they  cannot  get  work 
experience  because  they  do  not  have  a  job.  I  heard 
from women and girls who still face inequality in the 
workplace and violence just because they are women, 
even in a progressive country like Canada.
(spoke in French)
I  met  parents  who  were  working  hard  to  give 
their  children  every  opportunity  to  succeed  but  who 
feared that their efforts would not be sufficient. I had 
the chance share a meal with elderly retirees who had 
toiled  all  their  lives  but  who  now  have  to  go  to  food 
banks. Over the past few years, I have had far too many 
disturbing  conversations  with  Canadians,  but  they 
made  something  clear  to  me.  Canadians  still  believe 
in progress, or, at least, that progress is possible. But 
that optimism is mixed with great concern. It is clear 
that Canadians are not the only ones who feel that way; 
those feelings are present everywhere. That anxiety is 
a fact of life.
(spoke in English)
When leaders are faced with citizens’ anxiety, we 
have a choice to make. Do we exploit that anxiety or do 
we allay it? Exploiting it is easy, but in order to allay 
it we need to be prepared to answer some very direct 
questions. What will create the good, well-paying jobs 
that  people  want  and  need  and  deserve?  What  will 
strengthen  and  grow  the  middle  class  and  help  those 
working  hard  to  join  it?  What  will  build  an  economy 
that  works  for  everyone?  What  will  help  to  make  the 
world a safer, more peaceful place?
To  allay  people’s  anxiety,  we  need  to  create 
economic growth that is broadly shared, because a fair 
and  successful  world  is  a  peaceful  one.  We  need  to 
focus on what brings us together, not on what divides 
us. For Canada, that means re-engaging in global affairs 
through institutions like the United Nations. It does not 
serve our interests — or the world’s — to pretend that 
we  are  not  deeply  affected  by  what  happens  beyond 
our borders.
(spoke in French)
Earlier  this  year,  we  helped  negotiate  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  As  part  of  our 
commitment  to  implementing  that  Agreement,  we 
announced  that  Canada  would  invest  $2.65  billion 
over  five  years  to  fund  clean,  low-carbon  growth 
in  developing  countries.  In  order  to  help  promote 
peace  and  security  in  areas  affected  by  instability, 
we  reaffirmed  our  support  for  NATO  and  committed 
ourselves 
in  United 
Nations peacekeeping operations. We hosted the fifth 
Replenishment Conference of the Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  where  we  increased 
our  contribution  by  20  per  cent  by  giving  more  than 
$800 million to the Global Fund. We also encouraged 
our partners to increase their contributions, making it 
possible to raise $13 billion in support of ending AIDS, 
tuberculosis and malaria by 2030.
to  expanding  Canada’s  role 
16-29296
55/56
A/71/PV.8 
(spoke in English)
We  have  done  all  this  —  and  will  do  much 
more — because we believe we should confront anxiety 
with a clear plan to deal with its root causes. We believe 
we should bring people together around shared purposes 
such as the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. What 
is the alternative? Is it to exploit anxiety? Is it to turn it 
into fear and blame? Is it to reject others because they 
look or speak or pray differently than we do?
In Canada we got a very important thing right — not 
perfect,  but  right.  In  Canada,  we  see  diversity  as  a 
source of strength, not weakness. Our country is strong 
not  in  spite  of  our  differences,  but  because  of  them. 
We must make no mistake: we have had many failures, 
from the internment of Ukrainian, Japanese and Italian 
Canadians  during  the  World  Wars,  to  our  turning 
away  of  boats  of  Jewish  and  Punjabi  refugees,  to  the 
shamefully  continuing  marginalization  of  indigenous 
peoples. What matters is that we learn from our mistakes 
and recommit ourselves to doing better. To that end, in 
recent months, Canadians have opened their hearts and 
their  arms  to  families  fleeing  the  ongoing  conflict  in 
Syria, and from the moment they arrived, those 31,000 
refugees  were  welcomed  —  not  as  burdens,  but  as 
neighbours and friends — as new Canadians.
(spoke in French)
That effort has brought Canadians together. In an 
almost  unprecedented  fashion,  the  Government  has 
worked with the business community, engaged citizens 
and civil society to help the newcomers adapt to their 
new country. But our efforts will not truly be successful 
until  those  refugees  have  become  established,  full-
fledged members of the Canadian middle class. I want 
the  General  Assembly  to  know  that  this  objective  is 
within our grasp — not because of what we have done, 
but because of what they are themselves.
(spoke in English)
Refugees  are  people  with  the  same  hopes  and 
dreams as our own citizens. But while our people have 
felt  anxiety,  Syrians  faced  catastrophe.  We  all  know 
where Syria’s middle class is: they are living in refugee 
camps in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. They are moving 
across  Europe,  looking  for  a  place  to  set  down  roots, 
to get their kids back into school, to find steady work 
and to become productive citizens. Refugee camps are 
teeming with Syria’s middle class: doctors and lawyers, 
teachers  and  entrepreneurs.  They  are  well  educated. 
20/09/2016
They work hard. They care about their families. They 
want a better life — a safer and more secure future for 
their kids — as we all do. When I say, therefore, that I 
hope that the Syrian refugees we welcomed will soon 
be able to join our middle class, I am confident that we 
can make that happen, and we will do it by offering to 
them the same things we offer to all our citizens — a 
real and fair chance at success for everyone.
(spoke in French)
We  are  going  to  do  all  we  can  to  build  a  strong 
middle  class  in  Canada.  We  are  going  to  invest  in 
education,  because  it  gives  the  next  generation  the 
tools they need to contribute to the world economy and 
to  succeed.  We  are  going  to  invest  in  infrastructure 
because it creates good, well-paying jobs for the middle 
class and helps to make our communities better places 
to  live,  work  and  invest.  We  are  determined  to  build 
an  economy  that  works  for  everyone  —  not  just  the 
wealthiest 1 per cent  — so that every person benefits 
from economic growth. And we are going to refuse to 
give in to the pressure of trading our cherished values 
for easy votes. The world expects better from us, and 
we expect better from ourselves.
(spoke in English)
In  the  end,  there  is  a  choice  to  be  made.  Strong, 
diverse, resilient countries like Canada did not happen 
by accident, and they will not continue without effort. 
Every  single  day,  we  need  to  choose  hope  over  fear 
and  diversity  over  division.  Fear  has  never  created  a 
single job or fed a single family, and those who exploit 
it will never solve the problems that have created such 
anxiety.  Our  citizens,  the  nearly  7.5  billion  people 
we  collectively  serve,  are  better  than  the  cynics  and 
pessimists think they are. People want their problems 
solved, not exploited.
Canada is a modest country. We know we cannot 
solve these problems alone. We know we need to do this 
all together. We know it will be hard work. But we are 
Canadian, and we are here to help.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Canada for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Justin  Trudeau,  Prime  Minister  of  Canada, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 3.50 p.m.
56/56 
16-29296
