United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
45th plenary meeting
Thursday, 10 November 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.45
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Rahming 
(Bahamas), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
Agenda item 115 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(a) Appointment of members of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/71/589)
The Acting President: In paragraph 8 of its report, the 
Fifth Committee recommends that the General Assembly 
appoint the following persons as members of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
for  a  three-year  term  of  office  beginning  on  1  January 
2017: Mr. Takeshi Akamatsu (Japan), Mr. Marcel Jullier 
(Switzerland),  Mr.  Mahesh  Kumar  (India),  Mr.  Carlos 
Ruiz Massieu (Mexico), Ms. Catherine Vendat (France) 
and Mr. Ye Xuenong (China).
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to appoint Mr. Takeshi Akamatsu, Mr. Marcel Jullier, 
Mr.  Mahesh  Kumar,  Mr.  Carlos  Ruiz  Massieu, 
Ms. Catherine Vendat and Mr. Ye Xuenong as members 
of  the  Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative  and 
Budgetary  Questions  for  a  three-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2017?
It was so decided.
(b) Appointment of members of the Committee 
on Contributions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/71/590)
The Acting President: In paragraph 4 of its report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly appoint the following persons as members of 
the Committee on Contributions for a three-year term of 
office beginning on 1 January 2017: Mr. Cheikh Tidiane 
Dème  (Senegal),  Mr.  Gordon  Eckersley  (Australia), 
Mr. Bernardo Greiver del Hoyo (Uruguay), Mr. Ugo Sessi 
(Italy) and Mr. Alejandro Torres Lépori (Argentina).
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  appoint  Mr.  Cheikh  Tidiane  Dème,  Mr.  Gordon 
Eckersley,  Mr.  Bernardo  Greiver  del  Hoyo,  Mr.  Ugo 
Sessi and Mr. Alejandro Torres Lépori as members of 
the Committee on Contributions for a three-year term 
of office beginning on 1 January 2017?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  The  appointment  for  the 
remaining  vacancy  beginning  on  1  January  2017  has 
been postponed to a later date.
(c)  Confirmation of the appointment of members of 
the Investments Committee
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/71/591)
The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  its 
report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
General  Assembly  confirm 
the  appointments  by 
the  Secretary-General  of  the  following  persons  as 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-37487 (E)
*1637487*
A/71/PV.45 
10/11/2016
regular  members  of  the  Investments  Committee  for  a 
three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2017: 
Mr.  Masakazu  Arikawa  (Japan),  Mr.  Madhav  Dhar 
(India), Mr. Simon Jiang (China), Mr. Achim Kassow 
(Germany),  Mr.  Nemir  Kirdar  (Iraq),  Mr.  Michael 
Klein (United States of America), Ms. Linah Mohohlo 
(Botswana),  Mr.  Gumersindo  Oliveros  (Spain)  and 
Ms. Luciane Ribeiro (Brazil).
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  confirm  the  appointment  by  the  Secretary-General 
of  Mr.  Masakazu  Arikawa,  Mr.  Madhav  Dhar, 
Mr.  Simon  Jiang,  Mr.  Achim  Kassow,  Mr.  Nemir 
Kirdar,  Mr.  Michael  Klein,  Ms.  Linah  Mohohlo, 
Mr. Gumersindo Oliveros and Ms. Luciane Ribeiro as 
regular  members  of  the  Investments  Committee  for  a 
three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2017?
It was so decided.
(d) Appointment of members of the International 
Civil Service Commission
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/71/592)
The Acting President: In paragraph 4 of its report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as  members 
of  the  International  Civil  Service  Commission  for 
a  four-year  term  of  office  beginning  on  1  January 
2017:  Mr.  Larbi  Djacta  (Algeria),  Mr.  Mohammed 
Farashuddin  (Bangladesh),  Mr.  Sergey  Garmonin 
(Russian  Federation),  Mr.  Wang  Xiaochu  (China)  and 
Mr. El Hassane Zahid (Morocco).
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
appoint Mr. Larbi Djacta, Mr. Mohammed Farashuddin, 
Mr.  Sergey  Garmonin,  Mr.  Wang  Xiaochu  and 
Mr. El Hassane Zahid as members of the International 
Civil Service Commission for a four-year term of office 
beginning on 1 January 2017?
It was so decided.
(e)  Appointment of members of the Independent 
Audit Advisory Committee
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/71/593)
The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  its 
report,  the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the 
General  Assembly  reappoint  Ms.  Patricia  Arriagada 
Villouta  (Chile)  and  Ms.  Natalia  Bocharova  (Russian 
Federation)  as  members  of  the  Independent  Audit 
Advisory  Committee  for  a  three-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2017.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  reappoint  Ms.  Patricia  Arriagada  Villouta  and 
Ms. Natalia Bocharova as members of the Independent 
Audit  Advisory  Committee  for  a  three-year  term  of 
office beginning on 1 January 2017?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  The  appointment  for  the 
remaining  vacancy  beginning  on  1  January  2017  has 
been postponed to a later date.
(f)  Appointment of members and alternate members 
of the United Nations Staff Pension Committee
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/71/594)
The Acting President: In paragraph 4 of its report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly appoint the following persons as members or 
alternate members of the United Nations Staff Pension 
Committee  for  a  four-year  term  of  office  beginning 
on  1  January  2017:  Mr.  Dmitry  Chumakov  (Russian 
Federation), Mr. Hitoshi Kozaki (Japan), Mr. Lovemore 
Mazemo (Zimbabwe), Mr. Philip Richard Okanda Owade 
(Kenya),  Ms.  Pía  Poroli  (Argentina),  Mr.  Mustafizur 
Rahman  (Bangladesh),  Mr.  Thomas  Repasch  (United 
States of America) and Mr. Jörg Stosberg (Germany).
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to appoint Mr. Dmitry Chumakov, Mr. Hitoshi Kozaki, 
Mr.  Lovemore  Mazemo,  Mr.  Philip  Richard  Okanda 
Owade,  Ms.  Pía  Poroli,  Mr.  Mustafizur  Rahman, 
Mr.  Thomas  Repasch  and  Mr.  Jörg  Stosberg  as 
members  or  alternate  members  of  the  United  Nations 
Staff Pension Committee for a four-year term of office 
beginning on 1 January 2017?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
has  thus  concluded  its  consideration  of  sub-items 
(a),  (c),  (d)  and  (f)  of  agenda  item  115  and  this  stage 
of its consideration of sub-items (b) and (e) of agenda 
item 115.
2/6 
16-37487
10/11/2016 
A/71/PV.45
(g) Appointment of members of the Committee 
on Conferences
Note by the Secretary-General (A/71/107)
The Acting President: As indicated in the note by 
the Secretary-General, since the terms of office of the 
representatives of Austria, Jamaica, Japan, Mauritania, 
Qatar, the United Republic of Tanzania and the United 
States  of  America  will  expire  on  31  December  2016, 
it  will  be  necessary  for  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly to appoint seven members to fill the resulting 
vacancies.  Those  members  will  serve  for  a  period  of 
three years beginning on 1 January 2017.
Consequently, on the recommendation of the Chairs 
of  the  Groups  of  African  States,  Asia-Pacific  States, 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  and  Western 
European and other States, the President has appointed 
Austria,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Kenya,  Morocco  and  the 
United States of America as members of the Committee 
on Conferences for a period of three years beginning on 
1 January 2017. May I take it that the Assembly takes 
note of those appointments?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  remind 
members that one seat from the Asia-Pacific States, for 
a  period  of  three  years  beginning  on  1  January  2017, 
remains to be filled, and that two seats from the Latin 
American and Caribbean States, for a period beginning 
on the date of appointment and expiring on 31 December 
2018, still remain vacant. I urge those groups to submit 
their candidates as soon as possible.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage  of  its  consideration  of  sub-item  (g)  of  agenda 
item 115.
(h) Appointment of members of the Joint 
Inspection Unit
Notes by the Secretary-General (A/71/178 and 
A/71/178/Add.1)
The Acting President: Members will recall that at 
the 29th plenary meeting, on 14 October, the Assembly 
selected the United States of America from among the 
Group of Western European and other States to propose 
a candidate for appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit, 
for a five-year term of office beginning on 1 January 
2017. This selection was made following the resignation 
of Mr. George Bartsiotas (United States of America).
As indicated in paragraph 2 of document A/71/178, 
the General Assembly, by its resolution 61/238, decided 
that  beginning  on  1  January  2008,  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly,  when  drawing  up  the  list  of 
countries that would be requested to propose candidates 
in  accordance  with  paragraph  1  of  article  3  of  the 
statute  of  the  Unit,  would  invite  Member  States  to 
submit the names of the countries and their respective 
candidates  simultaneously,  on  the  understanding  that 
the candidates submitted were the candidates that the 
respective  Member  States  intended  to  propose,  to  the 
extent  possible,  for  appointment  by  the  Assembly  in 
accordance with paragraph 2 of article 3 of the statute.
As  indicated  in  documents  A/71/178  and  its 
Addendum 1, the General Assembly is required, during 
the seventy-first session, to appoint the remaining four 
members  to  fill  the  vacancies  in  the  Joint  Inspection 
Unit  that  will  arise  from  the  expiration  of  the  terms 
of  office  on  31  December  2017  of  Mr.  Gopinathan 
Achamkulangare 
(India),  Mr.  Gennady  Tarasov 
(Russian Federation), Mr. Jean Wesley Cazeau (Haiti) 
and Ms. Sukai Elie Prom-Jackson (Gambia).
As  also 
indicated 
in  document  A/71/178, 
in 
accordance  with  paragraph  1  of  article  3  of  the 
statute  of  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit,  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  shall  consult  with  Member 
States  to  draw  up  a  list  of  countries  —  in  this  case, 
four countries — that would be requested to propose a 
candidate for appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit.
After holding the necessary consultations with the 
regional  groups,  I  should  like  to  communicate  to  the 
Assembly  the  information  received  from  the  Chair  of 
the Group of African States that of two candidates, the 
Gambia and Libya, the Group has endorsed the Gambia 
as the country that will propose a candidate for the one 
vacancy from among the African States; from the Chair 
of the Group of Asia-Pacific States that the Group has 
endorsed  India  for  the  one  vacancy  from  among  the 
Asia-Pacific  States;  from  the  Chair  of  the  Group  of 
Eastern  European  States  that  the  Group  has  endorsed 
the Russian Federation for the one vacancy from among 
the Eastern European States; and from the Chair of the 
Group  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  that 
the Group has endorsed Haiti for the one vacancy from 
among the Latin American and Caribbean States.
As  the  Groups  of  Asia-Pacific  States,  Eastern 
European  States  and  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States have each endorsed one country for one vacant 
16-37487
3/6
A/71/PV.45 
10/11/2016
seat  —  India,  the  Russian  Federation  and  Haiti, 
respectively — those three countries will therefore be 
requested to propose one candidate each for appointment 
to the Joint Inspection Unit.
Since,  however,  from  among  the  African  States 
there  are  two  candidates  for  one  vacancy,  I  should 
like, in accordance with past practice, to consult with 
Member  States  through  the  procedure  of  holding  an 
advisory vote by secret ballot, to select one country from 
among the African States to be requested to propose a 
candidate for appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit. 
Although this advisory vote would not be an election, 
we would follow the rules of procedure of the Assembly 
governing elections. If there is no objection, may I take 
it that the General Assembly agrees to that procedure?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: In accordance with existing 
practice,  the  country  receiving  the  greatest  number 
of  votes  and  not  less  than  a  majority  of  the  votes  of 
those present and voting shall be the country selected 
to  propose  a  candidate  for  appointment  to  the  Joint 
Inspection Unit. May I take it that the General Assembly 
also agrees to that procedure?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  remind 
members that the Assembly is not appointing members 
to  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit  at  this  time.  It  is  only 
selecting one country that will be requested to propose 
a candidate, and therefore only the name of one country, 
not  the  name  of  an  individual,  should  appear  on  the 
ballot papers.
I should now like to repeat that for the one vacancy 
from among the African States, there are two candidates, 
the Gambia and Libya. I should further like to point out 
that from among the African States, Morocco already 
has  a  national  serving  on  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit 
whose term of office ends on 31 December 2020. The 
name of that State should therefore not appear on the 
ballot paper.
The Assembly will now proceed to the selection of 
one country from among the African States that will be 
requested to propose a candidate to fill the vacancy in 
the Joint Inspection Unit.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly, no representative 
shall interrupt the voting except on a point of order on 
the actual conduct of the voting.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected. Ballot papers will now be distributed. I 
should like to request that representatives write on the 
ballot paper the name of the one State for which they 
wish  to  vote.  Ballot  papers  containing  more  than  one 
name will be declared invalid. If a ballot paper contains 
the name of a Member State that does not belong to the 
relevant  region,  it  will  be  declared  invalid.  Similarly, 
ballot  papers  bearing  the  name  of  an  individual  will 
also be declared invalid.
At the invitation of the Acting President, Mr. Loko 
(Benin), Mrs. Coulibaly/Ouaattra (Burkina Faso), 
Mr.  Díaz  Reina  (Colombia),  Ms.  Rheindrayani 
(Indonesia), Ms. O’Brien (Ireland) and Ms. Oanţă 
(Romania) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.50  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.15 a.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
as follows:
African States
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required simple majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
Gambia  
Libya  
185
3
182
2
180
91
93
87
Having  obtained  the  required  majority  and  the 
greatest number of votes, the Gambia was selected 
to propose a candidate for appointment to the Joint 
Inspection Unit.
The  Acting  President:  I  thank  the  members  for 
their advice and the tellers for their assistance.
In accordance with paragraph 1 of article 3 of the 
statute of the Joint Inspection Unit, the Gambia, India, 
Haiti and the Russian Federation will be requested to 
submit the names of candidates and the curricula vitae 
highlighting the candidates’ relevant qualifications for 
the tasks ahead.
4/6 
16-37487
10/11/2016 
A/71/PV.45
I would like to remind members that, in accordance 
with  Assembly  resolution  59/267,  of  23  December 
2004,  the  candidates  should  have  experience  in  at 
least  one  of  the  following  fields:  oversight,  audit, 
inspection,  investigation,  evaluation,  finance,  project 
evaluation,  programme  evaluation,  human  resources 
management,  management,  public  administration, 
monitoring  and  programme  performance,  as  well  as 
knowledge of the United Nations system and its role in 
international relations.
After  holding 
the  appropriate  consultations 
described in paragraph 2 of article 3 of the statute of 
the Joint Inspection Unit, including consultations with 
the  President  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and  the  Secretary-General,  in  his  capacity  as  Chair 
of  the  United  Nations  System  Chief  Executive  Board 
for  Coordination,  I  will  submit  the  names  of  the 
candidates to the Assembly for appointment to the Joint 
Inspection Unit.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of sub-item (h) of agenda item 115.
Agenda item 112
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(b) Election of eighteen members of the Economic 
and Social Council
The Acting President: The General Assembly will 
now proceed to hold by-elections to elect members of the 
Economic and Social Council, in accordance with rule 
140 of the rules of procedure. Members are reminded 
that  the  election  of  18  members  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  was  held  on  14  June  2016  during  the 
104th  plenary  meeting  of  the  seventieth  session,  in 
which the following 18 States were elected members of 
the  Council  for  a  three-year  term  of  office  beginning 
on 1 January 2017: Andorra, Azerbaijan, Benin, Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, Cameroon, Chad, China, Colombia, 
Norway, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Swaziland, Sweden, 
Tajikistan,  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  the  United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
I would first like to draw the attention of members 
to a letter dated 4 November 2016 from the Permanent 
Representative  of  San  Marino  to  the  United  Nations, 
circulated  in  document  A/71/604.  In  his  letter,  the 
Permanent Representative of San Marino, in his capacity 
as Chair of the Group of Western European and other 
States,  refers  to  a  note  verbale  dated  29  April  2016, 
sent  by  the  Permanent  Mission  of  Malta,  announcing 
that  Greece  will  relinquish  its  seat  on  the  Economic 
and Social Council at the end of 2016 for the remainder 
of its term, in favour of Turkey, and that Portugal will 
relinquish its seat on the Council, also at the end of 2016 
for the remainder of its term, in favour of Spain. As a 
result, two vacancies will occur and new members must 
therefore be elected to fill the unexpired terms of office 
of Greece and Portugal, commencing on 1 January 2017 
and expiring on 31 December 2017.
In accordance with paragraph 4 of General Assembly 
resolution 2847 (XXVI), adopted on 20 December 1971, 
and  taking  into  account  that  the  vacancies  will  occur 
from  among  the  Western  European  and  other  States, 
the new members should therefore be elected from that 
regional  group.  I  should  like  to  inform  the  Assembly 
that  the  candidates  that  receive  a  two-thirds  majority 
and the greatest number of votes by members present 
and voting will be declared elected.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
that procedure?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: In accordance with rule 92 
of the rules of procedure, the election shall be held by 
secret  ballot,  and  there  shall  be  no  nominations.  We 
shall now proceed accordingly.
I should like to remind members that the following 
States  from  among  the  Western  European  and  other 
States are currently represented on the Economic and 
Social  Council:  Australia,  Belgium,  Finland,  France, 
Germany,  Ireland,  Italy,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
and the United States of America. The names of those 
11 States should therefore not appear on the ballot.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly, no representative 
shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order 
on the actual conduct of the voting. In addition, ballot 
papers will be given only to the representative seated 
directly behind the country’s nameplate.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been  collected.  I  would  like  to  remind  members  that 
they  are  voting  in  the  by-election  for  two  seats  for 
16-37487
5/6
A/71/PV.45 
the Western European and other States. Ballot papers 
will now be distributed. Representatives are requested 
to  use  only  those  ballot  papers  and  to  write  on  them 
the  names  of  the  States  for  which  they  wish  to  vote. 
A  ballot  will  be  declared  invalid  if  it  contains  more 
names of Member States from the relevant region than 
the  number  of  seats  assigned  to  it.  A  ballot  will  also 
be declared invalid if any of the names of the Member 
States  on  it  do  not  belong  to  the  Group  of  Western 
European and other States.
At the invitation of the Acting President, Mr. Loko 
(Benin), Mrs. Coulibaly/Ouaattra (Burkina Faso), 
Mr.  Díaz  Reina  (Colombia),  Ms.  Rheindrayani 
(Indonesia), Ms. O’Brien (Ireland) and Ms. Oanţă 
(Romania) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  11.35  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.55 a.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
as follows:
Western European and other States
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required two-thirds majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
Spain  
Turkey  
10/11/2016
180
0
180
5
175
117
171
171
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority, 
Spain  and  Turkey  were  elected  members  of  the 
Economic and Social Council for a term of office 
beginning  on  1  January  2017  and  ending  on 
31 December 2017.
The  Acting  President:  I  congratulate  Spain 
and  Turkey  on  having  been  elected  members  of  the 
Economic and Social Council.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage  of  its  consideration  of  sub-item  (b)  of  agenda 
item 112.
The meeting rose at 12 noon.
6/6 
16-37487
