United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
7th plenary meeting
Monday, 19 September 2016, 7.30 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.7
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 7.40 p.m.
High-level plenary meeting on addressing large 
movements of refugees and migrants
Agenda items 13 and 117 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium 
Summit
Co-Chair  Thomson:  As  we  begin  the  closing 
events of the high-level plenary meeting on addressing 
large  movements  of  refugees  and  migrants,  it  is  my 
pleasure  to  present  the  global  première  of  a  special 
version  of  John  Lennon’s 
iconic  song,  entitled 
“Imagine”. A collaboration among UNICEF, Ms. Yoko 
Ono  and  French  music  producer  David  Guetta,  the 
video brings together thousands of voices from around 
the world to shine a spotlight on issues facing the most 
vulnerable people.
We will now see the video.
A video presentation was broadcast in the General 
Assembly Hall.
Co-Chair Thomson: It is now my honour to give 
the  floor  to  the  Deputy  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Jan 
Eliasson,  who  will  deliver  closing  remarks  that  will 
include  a  summary  of  the  plenary  debate  and  the  six 
interactive multi-stakeholder round tables.
The  Deputy  Secretary-General:  Today  has  been 
a historic day. I do not even have to imagine this. It is 
a  reality,  and  I  think  that  that  wonderful  song  in  this 
setting proves the power of music and culture. Maybe 
we should do more of that in the United Nations.
On behalf of the Secretary-General, I congratulate 
Member  States  on  having  adopted  by  consensus  the 
New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and  Migrants 
(resolution  71/1,  annex).  This  shows  that  despite 
differing  perspectives,  we  can  unite  around  common 
principles  and  around  core  commitments  to  refugees 
and  migrants.  Large  movements  of  refugees  and 
migrants  present  some  of  the  most  challenging  issues 
of  our  time.  Individually,  many  Member  States  today 
have  demonstrated  positive  approaches  to  refugees 
and  migrants.  They  have  saved  the  lives  of  migrants 
at  sea.  They  have  treated  migrants  humanely.  They 
have extended protection to refugees. Yes, all this is to 
be commended.
However, we know that no one State can deal with 
these  transnational  issues  by  acting  alone.  We  must 
work  together,  more  than  ever  before.  The  situation 
today  requires  urgent  attention  and  urgent  action. 
Today, we have heard moving accounts that brought to 
this beautiful Hall the stark reality of being a refugee or 
a migrant — suffering in times of war, the unimaginable 
sexual violence and exploitation and the experience of 
alienation and discrimination in a new land. But they 
also  told  us  about  the  rebuilding  of  their  lives,  about 
their skills and capacities finally being used and about 
how the global community needs to act.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29168 (E)
*1629168*
A/71/PV.7 
19/09/2016
In both the plenary meetings and the round tables 
today, representatives have emphasized the centrality of 
human rights for migrants and refugees and reaffirmed 
their international obligations. They have committed to 
tackling the discrimination and gender-based violence 
that  women  and  girls  face  everywhere.  Many  have 
highlighted  the  negative  consequence  of  irregular 
migration.  They  have  called  for  greater  cooperation 
to  address  the  despicable  human  trafficking  and 
smuggling  of  migrants  and  refugees.  States  have  also 
recognized  the  strain  on  countries  that  host  large 
numbers  of  refugees.  They  have  agreed  to  implement 
a comprehensive response to large refugee movements, 
not least in protracted crisis situations.
Today, several representatives have also shared plans 
to expand financial assistance, taking into account both 
the  humanitarian  and  the  development  aspects.  New 
financial mechanisms have been announced to increase 
support  to  host  countries  and  host  communities.  We 
have  heard  concrete  examples  of  the  private  sector 
creating jobs for refugees, and how Member States have 
supported such efforts. It has been encouraging to hear 
that  additional  countries  have  joined  in  the  efforts  to 
provide resettlement space or alternative pathways for 
the admission of refugees.
We must also rally behind the call in the Declaration 
to  ensure  that  all  migrant  and  refugee  girls  and  boys 
have access to education within a few months of their 
arrival. It was widely recognized that we must increase 
financial support for the education of refugee children 
and youth.
Development programmes are also crucial and a key 
priority. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
recognized  the  contribution  that  migration  makes  to 
economic  and  social  progress.  We  must  harness  that 
positive  energy.  To  do  so  requires  improved  data  on 
migration  patterns  and  impacts,  as  many  speakers 
have emphasized.
We  also  require  a  clear-headed  and  informed 
policy debate, one that avoids stigmatizing refugees or 
migrants. The Secretary-General’s launch this morning 
of  a  global  campaign  to  combat  xenophobia,  entitled 
“Together  —  Respect,  Safety  and  Dignity  for  All”, 
is  receiving  broad  support  and  affirmation.  We  look 
forward  to  working  with  Member  States  and  partners 
on that project.
Today,  many  Member  States  have  declared  their 
intention  to  incorporate  refugees  and  migrants  in 
national  development  planning.  That  will  foster  more 
coherent planning and break down the silos that isolate 
humanitarian assistance from development work, which 
is such a crucial task for all of us. At the same time, we 
must ensure that commitments for official development 
assistance  are  being  met.  Creating  jobs  and  investing 
in youth are critical for making migration a choice, not 
a necessity.
With  regard  to  attaining  peace  and  security,  it  is 
with  great  hope  and  anticipation  that  we  have  heard 
in this Hall a strong call for prevention and resolution 
of  armed  conflicts.  Violent  conflicts  are  often  the 
source  of  mass  displacement,  as  we  all  know.  Acting 
early  and  with  foresight  and  responsibility  must  be  a 
guiding  principle  for  our  work.  The  shocking  images 
we see and the human stories we hear touch all of us 
around the world. Therefore, we must look not only to 
Governments, but also to others for action. Civil society 
and  the  private  sector  have  shown  engagement  and 
taken innovative approaches when faced with refugee 
and migrant movements.
We acknowledge the many steps and tasks on the 
road ahead, such as agreeing on how to govern migration 
effectively,  learning  how  to  successfully  integrate 
refugees  and  migrants  into  our  societies,  and  how  to 
increase  cooperation  to  assist  migrants  in  vulnerable 
situations.  Given  the  urgency  of  all  these  challenges, 
the  implementation  of  the  New  York  Declaration  for 
Refugees  and  Migrants  (resolution  71/1,  annex)  must 
begin now, at home and internationally.
Member States have set critical deadlines. By 2018, 
we  aim  to  have  adopted  a  global  compact  for  safe, 
orderly and regular migration — a formula that, by the 
way,  is  also  taken  from  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals.  We  also  want  to  achieve  a  more  equitable 
sharing of the responsibility for hosting and supporting 
the world’s refugees by adopting a global compact on 
refugees in 2018.
The United Nations system will now mobilize for 
a  comprehensive  follow-up  process.  We  have  taken 
an important step today by bringing the International 
Organization  for  Migration  into  the  United  Nations 
system  as  a  related  organization.  In  so  doing,  we 
recognize  its  unique  and  valuable  contribution  to  the 
work of the United Nations on migration. That makes 
the United Nations system stronger as we rise to meet 
our  new  challenges  and  to  seize  opportunities.  The 
New  York  Declaration  calls  for  ongoing  follow-up  of 
2/3 
16-29168
19/09/2016 
A/71/PV.7
our  commitments.  It  would  be  helpful  to  take  stock 
a  year  from  now  to  ensure  that  we  are  on  track  for 
meeting  our  objectives  by  2018.  As  one  of  our  young 
refugee  speakers  reminded  us  this  morning,  refugees 
are  already  taking  action;  now  is  the  time  for  the 
international community to act.
In closing, let me say that it will take determined 
and  collective  efforts  to  address  large  movements  of 
refugees and migrants in the world. We need to prevent 
and speedily resolve political crises. We need to respond 
to humanitarian crises. We need to engage in informed 
policy debate, as we have started to do today. We need 
to protect the human rights of all. We need to address 
root causes and ensure that no one is left behind. And 
we need to counter polarizing forces that aim to instil 
fear and divide us into “us” and “them”.
Some of the refugees and migrants who joined us 
today suffered terrible ordeals. They have demonstrated 
courage, resilience and offered a measure of hope. We 
must respond by carrying out the New York Declaration 
in  that  same  spirit.  Together  —  and  “together” 
is  perhaps  the  most  important  word  in  the  world 
today  —  we  can  shape  a  new  future.  This  must  be  a 
future in which migrants and refugees, host nations and 
host communities can live together in harmony, well-
being  and  mutual  respect,  and  today  Member  States 
have started this work. Let us go to work together.
Co-Chair Thomson: I thank the Deputy Secretary-
General for his statement.
I shall now make a few brief remarks before closing.
I join in thanking all Member States for their high 
level of participation in today’s summit; it reflects the 
gravity  of  the  situation  before  us  and  our  collective 
commitment  to  finding  humane  global  solutions  to 
address this crisis. But our actions must not stop here.
We must move quickly to fulfil the commitments 
made today. We must continue to give the refugee and 
migrant  crisis  the  attention,  energy  and  support  that 
it  needs.  We  must  redouble  our  efforts  to  protect  the 
human rights of refugees and migrants. We must counter 
racism,  xenophobia  and  others  forms  of  intolerance 
that  seek  to  dehumanize  vulnerable  people  in  need. 
Most  importantly,  we  must  push  for  the  universal 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, which will help to address many of the 
root causes that drive people to flee.
I  stand  ready  to  work  with  Member  States,  the 
United  Nations  system,  civil  society  and  other  key 
stakeholders  throughout  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  seventy-first  session  so  that  we  may  find  durable 
solutions that meet this moral imperative of our time. 
As I said in my opening remarks this morning,
“I urge Member States to maintain their high 
levels of ambition throughout these processes and 
to always reach for the higher ground on the basis 
of our common humanity and our values of decency 
and equality. The well-being of millions rests with 
us at the United Nations, and we must not fail them 
in their hour of need”(A/71/PV.3, p. 2).
I cannot close this evening without congratulating 
Member  States  and  all  those  who  made  possible 
the  adoption  today  of  the  New  York  Declaration 
for  Refugees  and  Migrants  (resolution  71/1,  annex). 
I  see  many  of  them  in  the  Hall  this  evening,  and  I 
acknowledge their presence. On behalf of migrants and 
refugees everywhere, I thank everyone.
I now declare closed the high-level plenary meeting 
on  addressing  large  movements  of  refugees  and 
migrants.
The meeting rose at 7.55 p.m.
16-29168
3/3
