United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
14th plenary meeting
Thursday, 22 September 2016, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.14
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Zamora Rivas 
(El Salvador), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m.
Address by Mr. Paul Biya, President of the 
Republic of Cameroon
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Cameroon.
into 
Mr.  Paul  Biya,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cameroon,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Paul 
Biya,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Cameroon,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Biya  (spoke  in  French):  Cameroon 
wishes to congratulate Mr. Thomson on his election to 
the presidency of the General Assembly at its seventy-
first  session.  His  great  experience  at  the  national  and 
international  levels,  and  in  the  public  and  private 
sectors,  and  his  well-known  personal  qualities  augur 
well  for  the  success  of  our  work.  I  would  like  in  that 
regard to assure him of the support of my country and 
the full cooperation of our delegation. I would also like 
to recognize the work accomplished by his predecessor, 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  whose  term  of  office  was 
characterized  by  successful  initiatives  to  make  the 
United Nations more open and transparent.
Finally, I would like to pay special tribute to Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon  for  his  remarkable  accomplishments  during 
his  two  terms  in  a  particularly  difficult  international 
context.  Cameroon,  for  its  part,  was  honoured  by  his 
memorable visit in 2010. It welcomes the strengthening 
during  his  term  of  our  exceptional  bonds  of  excellent 
cooperation with the United Nations.
This session opens at a time of turmoil in which, 
fortunately, we see some glimmers of hope. In a spirit 
of  human  solidarity,  we  have  in  recent  years  laid  the 
foundations  for  a  common  destiny  for  humankind.  I 
am particularly referring to the document significantly 
entitled  “The  future  we  want”,  adopted  at  the  United 
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held 
in  Rio  de  Janeiro  in  2012  (resolution  66/288,  annex). 
I  would  also  refer  to  the  17  Sustainable  Development 
Goals (SDGs) of the new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.  Finally,  I  must  mention 
the  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change, prepared at the twenty-
first  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change.
In that context, my country welcomes the President’s 
decision  to  place  his  term  under  the  banner  of  the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  We  therefore  welcome  the  convening 
of this  debate on  the Sustainable Development  Goals, 
nine months after their adoption and entry into force. 
The  SDGs,  it  should  be  recalled,  constitute  the  first 
global agenda to consider the issue of development in 
all its dimensions — security, economic, social, human 
and environmental.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29553 (E)
*1629553*
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
The originality of the 2030 Agenda clearly lies in 
the fact that it transcends the conventional indicators of 
economic growth. It truly focuses on human progress, 
humanity’s  heritage,  the  common  well-being  and 
security for all. It is an ambitious Agenda that requires 
everyone’s  genuine  involvement.  Under  the  Agenda, 
our common goal is to eradicate poverty and to leave 
no  one  behind.  That  is  a  challenge  that  we  have  set 
for ourselves and that we must assume in solidarity in 
order to meet the expectations of our peoples and take 
the summons of history to heart.
As  everyone  knows,  we  have  in  the  past  adopted 
agendas,  declarations  and  action  programmes  that 
have raised great hopes around the world among young 
people,  women  and  men,  both  urban  and  rural.  They 
were  harbingers  of  a  new  world  of  peace  and  shared 
prosperity. Yet the adopted actions were only partially 
implemented, a situation that we regretted at the time. In 
this Hall, we have failed to honour all our commitments, 
especially the financial ones. We have not fulfilled all 
the hopes and aspirations of our peoples.
Today,  we  need  to  get  organized  so  as  to  ensure 
that  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  fare  better. 
Since the goal is to transform our world and leave no 
one  behind,  we  must  find  the  wherewithal  to  realize 
our  ambitions,  which  fall  into  three  categories.  First, 
there is the political: our political will must be constant 
and  not  wax  and  wane  according  to  circumstances. 
Secondly,  in  the  financial  category,  our  contributions 
should  be  effective,  certain  and  adequate.  That  will 
require  unprecedented  mobilization.  Lastly,  from  a 
moral perspective, the principle of the duty of solidarity 
among peoples should be reaffirmed and observed. In 
doing so, we will be helping the SDGs to accelerate the 
advent of a world of peace for everyone everywhere — a 
world of prosperity for all.
As  the  Assembly  knows,  it  is  no  longer  time  for 
promises.  It  is  time  for  commitment;  time  for  action. 
Our efforts will encounter various obstacles, including 
persistent  conflicts  and  increasing  terrorism.  My 
country  is  in  a  position  to  talk  about  that,  having 
been  engaged  over  the  past  three  years  in  a  veritable 
war  against  the  scourge  of  terrorism.  That  new  type 
of threat to peace and development requires, I repeat, 
a  collective  response,  collective  determination  and 
collective action. Goal 16 of the Agenda for Sustainable 
Development,  which  focuses  on  the  promotion  and 
the  advent  of  peaceful  and  inclusive  societies  should, 
in  our  case,  help  us  to  effectively  fight  Boko  Haram. 
As underscored by one of the targets of that Goal, we 
should
“strengthen relevant national institutions, including 
through  international  cooperation,  for  building 
capacity  at  all  levels,  in  particular  in  developing 
countries, to prevent violence and combat terrorism 
and crime”.
Cameroon wishes to thank the President for having 
invited us, along with the other States Members of the 
United Nations, to today’s debate on the implementation 
of  the  SDGs,  the  new  universal  push  to  transform 
the  world.  The  outcomes  of  previous  agendas  and 
programmes have shown us the urgent need to find the 
wherewithal  to  achieve  our  ambitions.  If  we  decide, 
here and now, to effectively and tangibly mobilize our 
immense resources and if we decide to devote them to 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, then the 
SDGs will truly become the push to transform today’s 
world into a world of peace and shared prosperity.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Cameroon for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Paul  Biya,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cameroon,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of 
the Republic of Cyprus
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Cyprus.
into 
Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of the Republic 
of  Cyprus,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Nicos  Anastasiades,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Anastasiades:  It  is  a  great  honour 
to  address  the  Assembly  once  again.  I  would  like  to 
start by joining the previous speakers in conveying my 
Government’s  congratulations  to  Ambassador  Peter 
Thomson  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-first session.
2/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
Last  year,  we,  the  leaders  of  the  international 
community, came together in the realization that, in an 
increasingly  interdependent  world,  all  of  our  actions 
are,  more  than  ever  before,  closely  connected  and 
impact one another. We therefore collectively pledged 
to implement the Sustainable Development Goals, so as 
to  transform  our  world  for  the  benefit  of  humankind. 
The  universal,  comprehensive  and  indivisible  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  represents  a 
common reference point for all of us and our guiding 
tool  as  we  attempt  to  effectively  tackle  the  universal 
challenges  that  transcend  boundaries  and  threaten 
regional and international cohesion.
Challenges such as poverty, hunger, child mortality, 
social and economic inequality, lack of adequate health 
standards and educational opportunities have, in turn, 
aggravated  worrying  phenomena  such  as  religious 
fundamentalism, sectarianism, terrorism, civil war and 
ethnic  conflicts.  The  combination  of  all  those  factors 
has resulted in the extraordinary humanitarian crisis we 
are witnessing in the forcible displacement of millions 
of people, with the consequent unprecedented wave of 
refugees and migration flows that we are all witnessing, 
some  of  us  at  our  doorstep.  In  that  regard,  it  goes 
without saying that, in order to reverse such disturbing 
developments and establish more prosperous, just and 
peaceful societies, we need to address collectively and 
in an effective manner the root causes that have led to 
the uncontrolled exacerbation of those flows, through a 
two-fold interrelated approach.
First, by directing and concentrating our efforts so 
as to finally make sustainable development possible in 
all  of  the  countries  and  regions  in  need.  That  can  be 
achieved only if we adopt a targeted and results-oriented 
approach  towards  development  cooperation,  which 
will create the political and socioeconomic conditions 
needed for institution-building, stability and economic 
growth by, inter alia, eliminating inequality and social 
exclusion, addressing gender inequality and combating 
gender-based  violence, 
in 
human capital via capacity development and education, 
especially by promoting girls’ education, strengthening 
the role of key productive sectors, such as agriculture, 
energy and health, building resilience and fostering full 
respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms, 
and enhancing good governance and promoting the rule 
of law, as well as combating corruption.
facilitating 
investment 
Secondly,  we  need  to  resourcefully  confront  the 
threats posed by ongoing conflicts, as well as prevent 
future  ones,  in  order  to  achieve  lasting  and  viable 
political  solutions  that  will  promote  regional  peace, 
security and predictability. To that end, I wish to recall 
that the current session of the General Assembly was 
preceded by the High-level Meeting on large movements 
of refugees and migrants, during which we confirmed 
our  shared  responsibility  to  collectively  address  the 
issue of enforced human displacement. In parallel, all 
of us should direct our efforts, in an inclusive way, to 
combat human traffickers and the enablers of terrorism. 
Given that in today’s globalized world, all of us, even if 
in different contexts and to varying degrees, inevitably 
face  some  or  all  of  those  challenges,  meaningful  and 
effective  multilateralism  should  be  reinforced.  That 
is  critical.  To  that  end,  we  should  reconsider  the 
prevention  and  conflict-resolution  mechanisms  at  our 
disposal,  with  a  view  to  making  them  more  efficient, 
effective and immediate.
That  can  be  achieved  only  by  strengthening  our 
support  for  and  commitment  to  the  United  Nations, 
which  is  the  only  international  forum  that  was 
established by all of us with the aim of cooperatively 
resolving 
to 
peace  and  security.  Otherwise,  we  run  the  risk  of  an 
indefinite  perpetuation  of  the  current  humanitarian 
crisis  and  ongoing  conflicts,  which  would  serve  the 
best interests of their perpetrators at the expense of our 
universal principles.
regional  and 
international 
threats 
to  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 
As  his  10-year  tenure  is  coming  to  an  end,  I 
wish  to  convey  both  my  Government’s  and  my 
personal  appreciation 
the 
Secretary-General,  for  his  service  in  the  promotion 
of  our  common  values,  and  for  his  hard  work  and 
accomplishments. In particular, I wish to commend him 
for  his  instrumental  role  in  getting  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development adopted, for his work on 
the  recent  agreement  on  the  Comprehensive  Refugee 
Response Framework and, of course, for bringing the 
United  Nations  Conference  on  climate  change  to  a 
successful conclusion through the Paris Agreement. It 
is an agreement that Cyprus is committed to ratifying 
by the end of the year. Moreover, I wish to thank the 
Secretary-General  for  his  active  role  in  achieving 
a  peaceful  and  comprehensive  settlement  on  long-
standing  international  issues,  including  the  Cyprus 
problem — a problem that, sadly, is the second-longest-
standing  unresolved  international  issue  on  the  United 
Nations agenda.
16-29553
3/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
Following  the  tragic  events  of  1974  and  Turkey’s 
invasion,  the  continuing  military  occupation  of  more 
than a third of the territory of the Republic of Cyprus 
and,  at  the  same  time,  the  forced  displacement  of 
approximately 40 per cent of the population, the Greek 
Cypriot  side,  in  a  spirit  of  compromise,  accepted  the 
transformation of the unitary State into a federal one. 
Since then, a plethora of Security Council resolutions 
have  reaffirmed  the  basis  of  the  settlement  as  a 
bicommunal, bizonal federation with political equality, 
as  well  as  the  high-level  agreements,  with  a  single 
international legal personality, a single sovereignty and 
a single citizenship. At the same time, successive leaders 
of  the  two  communities  have  engaged  unsuccessfully 
so far in numerous rounds of talks.
Following  my  election  in  2013,  a  renewed  effort 
at negotiation on 11 February 2014 led to the adoption 
of  the  Joint  Declaration  by  the  leaders  of  the  two 
communities  and  the  resumption  of  the  negotiating 
process.  On  the  one  hand,  the  Joint  Declaration 
encapsulates the following fundamental principles: the 
reaffirmation  of  the  basis  of  the  settlement;  Cyprus’ 
continued  membership  in  the  United  Nations  and  the 
European Union (EU); the values upon which the EU 
is founded shall be safeguarded throughout the island, 
with full respect for democratic principles, human rights 
and fundamental freedoms; and union, in whole or in 
part, with any other country or any form of partition or 
secession or any other unilateral change to the state of 
affairs shall be prohibited.
On the other hand, it established the methodology 
the 
talks.  All  chapters  would  be  discussed 
of 
interdependently.  The  process  would  be  led  by  the 
leaders, and only an agreement freely reached by them 
might  be  put  to  simultaneous  referenda.  Any  kind  of 
arbitration  would,  therefore,  be  excluded.  Nothing 
would  be  considered  as  agreed  until  everything  is 
agreed.  The  leaders  would  aim  to  reach  a  settlement 
as soon as possible, without any enforced or artificial 
timelines. Thus, both communities have agreed on the 
overarching rules and modalities that are to guide the 
negotiating process. That has enabled the two leaders to 
have a clear and shared understanding on the framework 
of the envisaged settlement and on the ways and means 
of achieving it.
Last year, following the change in the leadership of 
the Turkish Cypriot community, I spoke of my revived 
hope that the new round of negotiations would end the 
unacceptable status quo. This year, following a series of 
frequent meetings between the two leaders, I have the 
pleasure of informing the Assembly that progress has 
been achieved on the important aspects of the Cyprus 
problem,  confirming,  inter  alia,  that  United  Cyprus 
will  have  a  single  international  legal  personality,  a 
single  sovereignty  and  a  single  citizenship,  thereby 
guaranteeing, for all Cypriots, the freedom of movement 
and  the  right  to  acquire  property,  reside,  practise  a 
trade or profession and establish and operate a business 
or engage in any economic activity throughout Cyprus; 
full  respect  for  the  individual’s  right  to  property; 
ensuring that the demographic character of the island on 
the first day of the settlement will reflect, with a slight 
deviation, the traditional demographic composition of 
the Republic of Cyprus as established in 1960; ensuring 
that  the  said  demographic  composition  will  not  be 
altered by outside influences; the implementation of the 
EU acquis throughout the territory of Cyprus, without 
deviations  or  permanent  derogations;  and  protecting 
the bizonal and bicommunal character of the settlement 
through specific clauses.
the 
the  federal 
Constitution  shall  prescribe  that  the  United  Cyprus 
Federation  shall  be  composed  of  two  constituent 
States of equal status, establishing the mode in which 
political  equality  will  be  exercised,  including  the 
effective participation in decision-making at the federal 
level. I must admit that further convergence has been 
reached on most aspects in the chapters on governance, 
economy and the European Union to the benefit of all 
Turkish  and  Greek  Cypriots.  At  the  same  time,  what 
is  also  encouraging  is  that,  in  contrast  to  previous 
negotiations, discussions in the form of brainstorming 
have, for the first time, commenced in relation to the 
chapters on territorial readjustments and security.
As  agreed  by 
two 
leaders, 
I do not wish to overlook the significant progress 
that has been achieved; however, I feel obliged to stress 
that differences remain on a number of issues regarding 
the chapters on governance, the EU and the economy. 
But  the  most  significant  divergences  lie  in  the  core 
and  fundamental  chapters  on  property,  territory,  and 
security  and  guarantees,  which  will  significantly 
impact whether a solution could be feasible in the very 
near future.
My  aim  is  to  avoid  the  failures  of  the  past  and 
to  present  to  the  people  a  clear  and  well-prepared 
settlement with no interpretive or other ambiguities and 
deficiencies, ensuring that the solution will be politically 
and economically viable, functional and lasting. In that 
4/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
respect, we need to address the financial dimension of 
the settlement, including costs related to the property 
issue  and  the  institutional  functioning  of  the  Federal 
State; the safeguarding of the smooth implementation 
of the agreement; the first day of the solution and what 
it  would  entail;  the  introduction  of  the  euro  as  legal 
tender  on  day  one  of  the  settlement;  and,  one  of  the 
most  important  issues,  the  speedy  implementation  of 
the various aspects of the agreement, among others.
I wish to reiterate yet again my resolve to continue 
working  with  the  same  determination  and  intensive 
pace, in order to reach a solution as soon as possible, 
hopefully,  by  the  end  of  the  year.  I  believe  that  this 
ambitious goal is achievable, provided that all interested 
parties  and  stakeholders  show  a  similar  degree  of 
commitment,  engage  constructively  and  proceed  with 
concrete and tangible steps that positively reinforce the 
negotiating process.
We  need  a  solution  that  will  reunite  our  country, 
its  people,  the  economy  and  our  institutions;  create  a 
win-win  situation  for  all  Cypriots —  we  do  not  want 
to  create  winners  or  leave  behind  losers;  address  the 
expectations, sensitivities and concerns of both Greek 
and Turkish Cypriots; ensure the building of a modern 
EU  and  United  Nations  Member  State,  enjoying  full 
sovereignty,  independence  and  territorial  integrity; 
restore  and  fully  respect  the  fundamental  freedoms 
and  human  rights  of  all  its  citizens;  establish  Cyprus 
as  an  international  paradigm  of  peaceful  coexistence 
and prosperous collaboration between all of its citizens, 
irrespective  of  their  different  ethnic,  cultural  and 
religious  diversity;  and  rid  Cyprus  of  third-country 
military  troops  and  guarantees,  an  anachronism  in 
today’s world.
It is my firm belief that the solution of the problem 
in Cyprus would, first and foremost, be to the benefit of 
all Cypriots, by creating conditions of peace, prosperity 
and a flourishing society, and unlocking the country’s 
full  potential  for  future  generations.  Regionally,  it 
would turn Cyprus into a model country of stability and 
predictability, and would broaden the role of Cyprus as 
a security-provider in one of the most turbulent areas 
of  the  world.  At  the  European  level,  it  would  end  the 
oxymoron of one of its Member States being divided, 
while  it  would  also  positively  reinforce  relations 
between  the  European  Union  and  Turkey,  as  well  as 
strengthen  the  rest  of  the  security  architecture  of  the 
EU. Last but not least, solving an international problem 
that has been on the agenda of the United Nations for 
the  past  several  decades  will  offer  a  beacon  of  hope, 
showing that even the most intractable problems can be 
solved peacefully through the United Nations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Cyprus for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of the Republic 
of Cyprus, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President of 
the Republic of Sierra Leone
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Sierra Leone.
Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President of the Republic 
of  Sierra  Leone,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ernest  Bai 
Koroma, President of the Republic of Sierra Leone, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Koroma:  I  congratulate  the  President 
on his election, and I commend his predecessor for his 
effective leadership at the previous session.
Let me also, on behalf of the Government and the 
people of Sierra Leone, applaud His Excellency Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon  for  his  dedication  and  commitment  to  the 
advancement of global peace and development during 
his 10 years of service to our Organization as Secretary-
General. I commend him for his vision and initiatives, 
including  the  major  high-level  panel  reviews,  the 
historic adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs), the signing of the Paris Agreement on climate 
change  and  convening  the  first  World  Humanitarian 
Summit.  We  in  Sierra  Leone  will  always  remember 
the  Secretary-General  with  deep  appreciation  for  his 
exemplary role in mobilizing support for the successful 
fight against the deadly Ebola disease.
The theme chosen by the President for our debate 
this  year,  “The  Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a 
universal push to transform our world”, could not have 
been more thoughtful. In order to achieve that goal, we 
must universally promote the Sustainable Development 
16-29553
5/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
Goals. We must push forward with energy, compassion 
and resolve to save the millions of women and children 
still  trapped  in  poverty,  bring  peace  to  our  troubled 
region, and prevent and contain disease outbreaks.
In Sierra Leone, drawing on the lessons learned from 
the  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  we  have  taken  action  to  quickly  integrate  the 
SDGs into our national development planning processes 
by  linking  each  of  the  17  Goals  and  169  targets  to 
our  national  development  programme  —  the  Agenda 
for Prosperity. Sierra Leone was one of the 22 countries 
reviewed  during  the  Economic  and  Social  Council’s 
High-Level  Political  Forum  in  July.  We  shared  our 
views on how we want to implement the SDGs, on the 
challenges we foresee and on how we hope to overcome 
them. At the same time, we have formulated a national 
integrated results framework that aligns the SDGs with 
our Alliance for Prosperity monitoring and evaluation 
mechanism. We have also established an international 
benchmarks system for Sierra Leone, which will enable 
us to address the challenges involved in obtaining the 
reliable  statistical  data  we  need  in  order  to  report  on 
our progress.
But whatever we do at the national level, whatever 
efforts we make on the global stage, whatever projects 
the brightest among us design, we will not be able to 
deliver on the SDGs’ promise of an inclusive, fairer and 
better world without the reform of the United Nations. 
Let  me  be  blunt.  Our  premier  global  institution  lacks 
the  democratic  characteristics  needed  to  tackle  the 
development,  security  and  other  challenges  facing 
Africa and many other parts of the world. Without strong 
African voices at the highest level of our premier global 
decision-making body, without the energetic voices of 
the region that is home to the world’s largest number of 
young people, and without the decisive contribution of 
the continent that is most affected by Security Council 
decisions,  no  solution  that  the  United  Nations  might 
propose to our challenges can be sustainable, inclusive 
or lasting.
in 
its  voice 
Yes,  Africa’s  position  is  about  righting  historical 
wrongs  and  enhancing 
the  United 
Nations.  But  most  of  all,  Africa’s  position  relates  to 
our  contribution  to  making  the  United  Nations  more 
effective, democratic and forward-looking. That is why 
we believe that the dilution of any of its key elements 
is  akin  to  continuing  a  status  quo  that  is  unfair, 
unjust,  non-inclusive  and  unfit  for  the  requirements 
of  the  twenty-first  century.  Africa  has  asked  me,  as 
Coordinator  of  its  African  Union  Committee  of  Ten 
Heads of State on United Nations Reforms, to tell the 
world  that  we  will  stand  united  behind  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration.  At  the  African 
Union’s  July  summit  in  Kigali  we  reaffirmed  the 
African  position,  and  we  deplore  any  attempts  to 
weaken any of those positions through divide-and-rule 
policies that are reminiscent of the colonial era.
In  September  last  year  at  the  Leaders’  Summit 
on  Peacekeeping,  we  committed  to  enlarging  and 
modernizing United Nations peacekeeping operations. 
I  made  a  pledge  at  the  Summit  to  contribute  further 
to United Nations peacekeeping with commitments to 
provide two formed police units, special weapons and 
tactics  units  and  police  guards  to  the  United  Nations 
Stand-by Arrangements System, and we are now ready 
to deploy at short notice.
Sierra  Leone  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  prepared  for  the  World  Humanitarian  Summit 
(A/70/709)  and  its  annex,  the  Agenda  for  Humanity. 
This year’s World Humanitarian Summit was a turning 
point at which we collectively pledged to improve our 
response  to  people  caught  in  natural  disasters  and 
conflicts, empower them as agents of their own recovery 
and  summon  greater  political  will  for  preventing  and 
ending  the  wars  that  have  caused  so  much  suffering. 
Millions of people need humanitarian help, and millions 
more  have  been  forcibly  displaced  from  their  homes. 
We must set the right tone in addressing the lingering 
challenges  facing  our  world.  My  delegation  endorses 
the Assembly’s adoption of the New York Declaration 
for  Refugees  and  Migrants  (resolution  71/1)  and  fully 
subscribes to its call to address the root causes of the 
problem,  including  efforts  aimed  at  preventing  crisis 
situations before they erupt.
the  General  Assembly  of 
Sierra  Leone  also  welcomes  the  simultaneous 
adoptions  in  April  by  the  Security  Council  of  its 
resolution 2282 (2016) on post-conflict peacebuilding, 
and  by 
its  resolution 
70/262,  reviewing  the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture.  The  parallel  resolutions  demonstrate 
our commitment to take a comprehensive approach to 
transitional justice and to accountability in the security 
sector,  both  of  which  are  critical  to  consolidating 
peace, reducing poverty and preventing countries from 
relapsing into conflict.
In  Sierra  Leone,  our  commitment  to  continue  to 
address the key underlying causes of fragility and the 
6/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
drivers  of  conflict  is  underlined  by  our  participation 
as a pilot country in the New Deal for Engagement in 
Fragile  States.  As  the  current  Chair  of  the  Group  of 
Seven Fragile States Plus, Sierra Leone emphasizes the 
importance  of  incorporating  SDG  16  into  our  efforts. 
We  also  recognize  that  the  effective  management  of 
our natural resources is central to ensuring sustainable 
socioeconomic  development  and  a  resilient  future  for 
Sierra Leoneans.
My  Government  remains  committed 
to  good 
governance  and  will  continue  to  build  on  our  post-
conflict peacebuilding and democratic gains by further 
strengthening  our  democratic  institutions  and  by 
providing access to the justice sector and establishing a 
level playing field there. To that end, we have taken steps 
to improve the conditions of service in our justice sector 
in order to attract and deploy more qualified personnel 
to the bench and as state counsels in every region and 
district of Sierra Leone. We have established a legal-aid 
board  so  as  to  ensure  that  every  indigent  person  has 
legal representation, that no one enters our correctional 
institutions without an indictment, and that court cases 
are  speedily  heard  and  justice  is  fairly  served.  Those 
strides represent important contributions to our journey 
towards attaining a resilient and inclusive Sierra Leone. 
They remain the bedrock of our aspirations to become a 
middle-income country by 2035.
That is why we have hastened to put in place major 
relevant  policy  decisions  and  enacted  appropriate 
legislation  to  empower  women,  improve  the  situation 
of  youth  and  ensure  that  the  physically  challenged 
are  not  marginalized.  My  Government’s  vision  for 
the  empowerment  of  women  as  enshrined  in  pillar  8 
of our Agenda for Prosperity is consistent with global 
aspirations, in recognition of the crucial importance of 
women and gender parity in our development process. 
Most  of  my  Government’s  programmes  are  youth-
oriented and range from education to health, community 
development and employment.
Efforts 
to  address  youth  empowerment  and 
unemployment  remain  at  the  heart  of  our  Agenda  for 
Prosperity.  My  Government  has  also  made  a  record 
number of appointments of youths and women into top-
level decision-making positions, including ministerial, 
ambassadorial  and  leadership  posts  in  Government 
departments  and  agencies  and  in  the  military,  police, 
Parliament, the judiciary and local government.
The  Ebola  outbreak  in  West  Africa  shone  a 
spotlight  on  the  critical  need  for  the  world  to  have  a 
more  robust  and  effective  global  health  architecture, 
with  strong  and  accountable  leadership  to  deal  with 
health  crises,  including  pandemics.  In  this  context, 
my delegation commends the High-Level Panel on the 
Global Response to Health Crises for its comprehensive 
report. We strongly consider its 27 recommendations as 
the way forward for appropriate action at the national, 
regional and international levels. We must collectively 
commit  ourselves  to  the  full  implementation  of  the 
Panel’s recommendations in order to protect humankind 
from the scourge of future health crises.
On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Sierra  Leone,  let  me  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
international community for supporting us in our efforts 
to  defeat  the  Ebola  virus.  We  are  now  implementing 
our  post-Ebola  recovery  programme.  We  applaud  the 
support that we have received, but we still face enormous 
resource  gaps.  I  would  therefore  like  to  remind  our 
bilateral  friends  and  the  international  community  to 
fulfil their pledges to our recovery programme.
Though  we  contribute  almost  nothing  to  global 
warming,  Sierra  Leone  is  the  third  most  vulnerable 
country  to  the  effects  of  climate  change.  Dealing 
with  climate  change  is  therefore  an  urgent  life-and-
death matter for us. That is why we welcome the Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change, and we will implement 
its  provisions  in  Sierra  Leone.  My  Government, 
in  collaboration  with  our  development  partners, 
is  implementing  projects  on  adaptation,  including 
climate 
information  and  early-warning  systems. 
We  remain  committed  to  these  efforts,  and  we  seek 
further  collaboration  in  confronting  this  global  threat 
against humankind.
As  we  move  into  the  implementation  of  the  first 
phase  of  the  SDGs,  we  must  remember  that  fragile 
States  were  unable  to  make  remarkable  progress  in 
the implementation of the MDGs largely owing to the 
absence of peace, justice and effective State institutions. 
It  is  therefore  urgent  for  all  parties  to  cooperate  with 
global  initiatives  in  finding  enduring  peace  in  Syria, 
South  Sudan  and  Libya.  This  is  why  the  world  must 
accelerate  its  efforts  to  resolve  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict,  in  fighting  terrorism  and  in  stemming  the 
dangerous escalation in the arms race.
We cannot sustain this world with bombs and the 
unending threat of war. We cannot achieve a universal 
16-29553
7/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
push  towards  development  when  armed  conflicts 
continue to drive millions into refugee camps and when 
millions  find  themselves  trapped  between  warring 
factions. We cannot champion the cause of justice and 
legitimacy  when  Africa  remains  excluded  from  and 
underrepresented in the highest decision-making organ 
of  our  global  Organization.  The  reforms  must  start 
here, and they must be deliberate and enduring.
While we acknowledge the gradual progress made 
so far, particularly in the transparent process of selecting 
and appointing the next Secretary-General, let me again 
reiterate that African Member States are unhappy about 
the slow pace of Security Council reform.
In concluding, let me once again reiterate Africa’s 
strong  concern  over  the  continuous  failure  of  the 
United Nations to adopt measures, including text-based 
negotiations, that will lead to a comprehensive and early 
reform of the Security Council to reflect contemporary 
realities. I would therefore urge that the reform process 
move  faster  so  that  Africa  can  take  its  rightful  place 
in  the  Security  Council.  The  United  Nations  must 
change with the times and must do so by effecting the 
relevant reforms.
Redressing 
the  much-acknowledged  historical 
injustice done to the continent will be a remarkable step 
in our universal push to transform our world. We cannot 
effectively deal with the evolving challenges of our time 
if we continue to hold on to the edicts and structures 
established  71  years  ago.  Equitable  geographical 
representation,  with  the  attendant  privileges  in  the 
membership of the Security Council, will only make it 
more  legitimate,  representative,  effective,  transparent 
and accountable.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Sierra Leone for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President of the Republic 
of  Sierra  Leone,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of 
the Republic of Lithuania
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Lithuania.
Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency 
Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic of 
Lithuania, and to invite her to address the Assembly.
President  Grybauskaitė  (Lithuania):  This  year 
we  agreed  that  the  general  debate  would  aim  to  give 
a  universal  push  to  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. I would like to focus on the particularly 
important  Sustainable  Development  Goal  5  —  on 
achieving gender equality and empowering all women 
and  girls  —  because  today’s  greatest  challenges, 
from  climate  change  to  fighting  terrorism  to  ending 
the  world’s  deadliest  conflicts,  can  be  resolved  only 
with  the  full  participation  of  both  genders,  especially 
women. Further, the successful implementation of the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  will  require  that  we 
dedicate special attention to women, because they are 
the  ones  who  feel  the  greatest  impacts  and  are  most 
likely to be left behind and ignored. Let us look at some 
of the other Sustainable Development Goals to see the 
truth of this assertion.
respect 
First,  with 
to  Goal  1  —  ending 
poverty  —  both  women  and  men  are  affected,  but 
lifting  women  out  of  poverty  is  much  more  difficult. 
As if poverty were not hard enough, women also face 
gender-based  discrimination,  stereotyping  and  social 
marginalization. According to one UN-Women report, 
around the world, a woman earns approximately 24 per 
cent less than a man, finds it more difficult to get a loan 
to  start  a  business,  and  is  likely  to  receive  a  smaller 
inheritance  or  nothing  if  she  decides  to  leave  her 
husband. The trend towards the feminization of poverty 
has to be changed. By not allowing women to prosper, 
we condemn entire families and all of society.
Secondly,  with  respect  to  Goal  2  —  ending 
hunger — although around half of the world’s agricultural 
work  is  done  by  women,  when  food  runs  out  women 
are the first to suffer. When public order breaks down, 
a woman’s trip to bring her family food or water may 
easily  cause  her  to  lose  her  life.  In  times  of  hunger, 
women give the little food they have to their families 
and children. In a bread line, however, they often end 
up being pushed aside or abused. Empowering women 
by expanding land ownership or providing credit would 
8/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
not  only  feed  a  family,  but  would  also  raise  female 
incomes and make more food available for all.
President of the Republic of Lithuania for the statement 
she has just made.
Thirdly,  with  respect  to  Goal  4  —  providing 
education — for so many girls and women around the 
world,  following  the  road  to  inclusive  learning  and 
education  remains  an  impossible  task.  According  to 
the  United  Nations  Global  Sustainable  Development 
Report, out of the world’s 750 million illiterate adults, 
two  thirds  are  women.  Girls  are  sent  off  or  sold  into 
early marriages, which blocks their path to education, 
higher  income  and  independence.  Criminals  abduct 
women  and  sell  them  into  slavery.  Extremists  burn 
down  schools  and  kill  teachers  because  they  do  not 
want  educated  girls  to  make  their  own  decisions  or 
make their own life choices.
Naturally,  that  needs  to  change.  Education  is  a 
key  that  opens  many  doors.  Educated  women  are  a 
tremendous  resource  and  a  force  for  the  common 
good for all of us. Women must be free to have access 
to  education  and  choose  the  profession  they  want. 
Information technologies must be available to uncover 
their full potential.
The  task  ahead  of  us  is  immense.  However,  it 
can  be  achieved  if  each  of  us  finds  the  strength  and 
courage to become part of the change by encouraging 
women to dream big and demand their rightful place in 
national parliaments, in politics, at negotiating tables, 
in  science  labs  and  on  company  boards;  by  ensuring 
that nothing can stand in the way of a girl’s dream to 
receive  a  free  high-quality  education;  by  combating 
gender stereotypes and abusive social practices; and by 
making sure that life and laws give women and girls the 
equal voice and power that they deserve.
There  is  a  new  perspective  to  consider  today.  If 
we  reduce  the  cost  of  gender-based  violence  today 
we  can  save  the  world  about  2  per  cent  of  lost  gross 
national product. If this money were not lost, it could 
be  directed  into  poverty  reduction  and  development. 
It is an additional development resource for the world. 
We  cannot  afford  to  fail  in  this  challenge.  It  is  too 
costly to allow gender-based violence to exist. To this 
end,  we  need  everyone  on  board  because  only  if  all 
members  of  society  —  both  women  and  men  —  are 
fully represented and engaged can the world’s future be 
truly sustainable. Indeed, without it we cannot think at 
all about sustainable development in the world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Salvador Sánchez Cerén, President 
of the Republic of El Salvador
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of El Salvador.
Mr.  Salvador  Sánchez  Cerén,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  El  Salvador,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Salvador 
Sánchez Cerén, President of the Republic of El Salvador, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Sánchez  Cerén  (El  Salvador)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  affirm  El 
Salvador’s  highest  and  most  decisive  commitment  to 
meeting and endorsing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development and its 17 Goals at the international level 
in  order  to  make  our  country  and  the  world  a  better 
place for its inhabitants.
Nine  months  ago,  El  Salvador  became  the  first 
country  in  the  world  to  sign  a  ground-breaking 
agreement  with  the  United  Nations  system  for  long-
term  cooperation  on  the  accelerated  implementation 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  in  15 
nations  around  the  world.  Our  objective,  as  partners 
in this ambitious initiative, is to make sustainable our 
country’s efforts aimed at fulfilling the Agenda.
Taking  into  account  the  deadline  to  achieve  the 
SDGs,  we  have  accordingly  developed  strategies  in 
our five-year development plan, entitled “El Salvador: 
productive, educated and safe”. Within the framework 
of that joint effort with the United Nations, it is essential 
to empower a diversity of actors in the implementation 
process. To that end, we are establishing the National 
Council for Sustainable Development, a joint mechanism 
between  Government  and  civil  society  charged  with 
consulting, arranging and coordinating implementation 
of the SDGs at the national level.
16-29553
9/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
In El Salvador, we are convinced that the Sustainable 
Development Goals must become an agenda for society. 
They  must  become  a  vision  and  shared  programme 
between  Government,  citizens,  social  organizations, 
churches,  business  people,  universities  and  other 
pillars  of  society.  Of  course,  we  in  the  Government 
are the first who are called upon to show progress in 
implementing  the  Agenda.  We  are  therefore  working 
towards  increasing  the  productive  capacity  of  our 
country  through  creating  an  environment  for  greater 
private  and  public  investment,  supporting  micro-, 
small  and  medium  enterprises,  raising  the  quality  of 
education, and implementing special projects to support 
vulnerable groups, such as young people, women and 
rural populations, to create opportunities, employment 
and economic growth for them.
With  regard  to  security,  to  achieve  its  goals  and 
overcome its challenges, my Government is committed 
to  reaching  an  agreement  with  all  political  parties, 
aimed positively at working together to resolve the short-
term and tax problems that we are facing as a country. 
Furthermore, we are carrying out unprecedented efforts 
in the area of security, as we had set out to do a year 
ago when we adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, which states,
“[s]ustainable  development  cannot  be  realized 
without peace and security; and peace and security 
will  be  at  risk  without  sustainable  development” 
(resolution 70/1, para. 35).
In that context, I want to share with the Assembly 
the fact that the National Council on Citizen Security 
and  Coexistence,  involving  all  social  and  political 
sectors  and  stakeholders  in  the  country,  is  moving 
forward with the implementation of the Plan for a Safe 
El Salvador in order to take steps to reduce all forms of 
violence and activities committed by criminal groups, 
such  as  gangs  and  traffickers  in  humans,  weapons 
and  drugs,  which  have  brought  so  much  suffering  to 
our  people.  We  have  also  undertaken  extraordinary 
measures to prevent violence, which will be gradually 
expanded  throughout  the  entire  country  once  they 
have been implemented in priority municipalities. The 
actions  carried  out  in  the  various  aspects  of  the  Plan 
for  a  Safe  El  Salvador  has  yielded  results.  Over  the 
past five months, there has been an approximate 50 per 
cent reduction in homicides, as compared with the first 
three months of this year — although, of course, many 
challenges and difficulties lie ahead.
I  wish  to  reiterate  that  the  Government  of  El 
Salvador  remains  fully  committed  to  ensuring  and 
protecting  human  rights.  The  commitment  to  human 
rights,  democracy,  the  separation  of  powers,  respect 
for the mandates of every State body and its decisions, 
transparency and the fight against corruption are today, 
for the Government of El Salvador, the cornerstone of 
any action it undertakes.
I recall that my country promoted the recognition 
in  resolution  70/1,  adopted  at  the  United  Nations 
Sustainable  Development  Summit,  that  migrants  are 
a  vulnerable  group  and  that  they  incontrovertibly 
contribute to the economic development of the countries 
that receive them. El Salvador insists on the need for the 
international community and the organizations dealing 
with the immigration issue and defending the rights of 
migrants and human rights, in general, and in particular 
the United Nations, to meet the challenge with courage 
and  guide  the  efforts  of  their  agencies,  funds  and 
programmes to reinforce cooperation initiatives related 
to international migration in all its facets.
Migration is a multidimensional phenomenon. It is 
as  old  as  the  history  of  humankind.  In  the  particular 
case  of  my  country,  we  are  aware  of  the  factors  that 
motivate  many  Salvadorans  to  emigrate.  National 
and  other  regional  initiatives,  such  as  the  Plan  of  the 
Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle, which 
we are implementing with Guatemala and Honduras, in 
cooperation  with  the  United  States  of  America,  focus 
on  key  priorities,  such  as  productive  development, 
investment 
the 
strengthening  of  institutions.  As  countries  of  origin, 
we  are  doing  our  part,  but  we  also  need  the  rights  of 
our  citizens  in  countries  of  transit  and  destination  to 
be supported and, above all, ensured. In other words, 
only efforts aimed at improving the conditions within 
the communities of origin of migrant populations will 
change the situation in the medium and long term. As 
the Pope said in September last year, the wall is not a 
solution because it would only produce more hate.
in  human  capital,  security  and 
There 
that 
is  no  doubt 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security 
is  an  absolute 
prerequisite for fulfilling the 2030 Agenda. It is therefore 
essential  to  reiterate  that  the  threat  to  humankind 
posed by the continued existence of weapons of mass 
destruction  is  a  cause  for  concern,  and  restate  that 
their use or the threat of their use is a clear violation of 
the Charter of the United Nations and a crime against 
10/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
humanity, constituting a clear violation of international 
law and international humanitarian law.
In addition, we note with concern the attempts made 
to destabilize progressive Governments in our region, 
including the removal during her term of the President 
elected by the people of Brazil. Such practices are not 
only  an  affront  to  the  rule  of  law,  but  also  seriously 
hamper  democracy,  peace  and  the  development  of 
nations.  We  therefore  stand  against  such  measures. 
We  call  upon  the  international  community  to  remain 
vigilant with regard to such actions and stay the course.
In that context, I would like to express particular 
solidarity  with  President  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros  and 
the Venezuelan people, who, I trust, will find solutions 
through dialogue to the challenges facing them.
Similarly, our country firmly rejects any expression 
of  intolerance,  violence  and  terror  by  radical  groups 
that are attacking the lives and the most fundamental 
rights of people — a phenomenon that has been striking 
various parts of the world over the past several years.
El  Salvador,  as  a  country  that  suffered  from  a 
civil  war  and  the  consequences  of  the  Cold  War,  is 
particularly  concerned  about  the  conflict  in  Syria, 
which  has  been  worsening  and  has  had  a  disastrous 
impact on the country’s entire social fabric, in particular 
for its children. It is crucial that the global leadership 
represented  in  this  Hall,  in  particular  from  countries 
hosting refugees from the crisis, provide a coordinated 
and,  above  all,  humane  and  united  response  for  the 
families who are suffering from deracination, disease 
and the loss of their loved ones as a result of the war.
We  also  hope  that  the  different  sectors  in  Syria 
will, with the support of the international community 
and United Nations institutions, reach an agreement to 
put an end to the hostilities in its territory. We would 
also like to speak out for the other areas of the world, 
such as Palestine, Iraq and Libya, where it is urgent that 
conflicts be overcome and a stable peace achieved.
In  the  Americas,  we  have  noted  with  satisfaction 
the  progress  made  by  Cuba  and  the  United  States  in 
restoring  their  relations.  However,  we  believe  that 
this change will not bring the expected benefits to the 
people of both countries if the economic embargo is not 
brought to an end.
implementation  of 
international peace and security. That is why I want to 
thank  the  valuable  support  that  the  Organization  has 
provided to El Salvador over the past 25 years, not only 
to improve the quality of life of Salvadorans, through 
the 
international  cooperation 
programmes and projects, but also in other areas, such 
as strengthening democracy and the rule of law, inter 
alia. This shared vision came about thanks to the fact 
that  El  Salvador  resolved  the  armed  conflict  of  the 
1980s  through  an  intensive  dialogue  and  negotiation 
process, which culminated in the signing of the Peace 
Agreement on 16 January 1992, for which we had the 
invaluable support of the United Nations.
Allow  me  to  underscore  the  fact  that  this  is  not 
only  a  historic  milestone  for  El  Salvador,  but  also 
a  successful  example  of  the  workings  of  the  United 
Nations  system  and  can  serve  as  a  reference  for 
resolving other conflicts. Accordingly, El Salvador has 
expressed  its  willingness  to  share  its  experience,  as 
it  did  in  the  case  of  Colombia,  which  recently  signed 
its  definitive  pact  for  peace  and  is  implementing  the 
agreements  reached.  We  recognize  and  congratulate 
Colombia on this achievement.
I  wish  to  state  that  El  Salvador  is  preparing  to 
celebrate  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  Peace 
Agreement  in  January  2017.  With  the  support  of  the 
United Nations, this will be an opportunity to once again 
strengthen the process of defining our national agenda 
which we have been working on with a view to deepening 
our goals. Looking ahead, El Salvador recognizes that 
the challenge of building a culture of peace goes hand 
in hand with a sustainable development agenda. As we 
see it, we cannot achieve sustainable development and 
democracy  without  peace,  nor  can  we  achieve  peace 
without democracy and sustainable development.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of El Salvador for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Salvador  Sánchez  Cerén,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  El  Salvador,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hassan Rouhani, President of the 
Islamic Republic of Iran
It is important to underscore the decisive role played 
by  the  United  Nations  in  defending  and  promoting 
human  rights  worldwide,  as  well  as  in  promoting 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Islamic Republic of Iran.
16-29553
11/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Hassan Rouhani, President of the Islamic Republic 
of Iran, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Rouhani  (spoke 
in  Farsi;  English 
interpretation provided by the delegation): I congratulate 
Mr. Peter Thomson on his election as President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session,  and 
I  hope  that  the  decisions  and  initiatives  taken  by  the 
Assembly  will  play  an  effective  role  in  resolving  the 
problems that our world is currently facing.
Fifteen years have passed since the painful terrorist 
attack in this city, a disaster whose human dimensions 
moved the entire world. On that day, no one imagined 
that  this  occurrence  would  lead  to  larger  disasters  or 
result in a devastating war in the Middle East and the 
spread  of  insecurity  across  the  globe.  This  war  has 
sown  the  seeds  of  borderless  terrorism  everywhere 
on Earth. Today, the most pressing question as to why 
we are facing such a situation should be on the agenda 
of  every  international  forum.  We  need  to  find  out 
which approaches, policies and erroneous actions have 
paved the way for the spread of insecurity throughout 
the  world  and  what  the  world  will  look  like  15  years 
from now.
Security  has  become  a  global  problem  at  a 
time  when  major  Powers  are  mainly  focusing  on 
advancing different methods of repression and military 
intervention  under  the  pretext  of  creating  a  secure 
environment for their citizens. The genesis of borderless 
violent extremism and terrorism could be attributed to 
the  security  strategies  developed  by  major  Powers  in 
the past 15 years. The main lesson to be learned from 
the analysis of this trend is that security in one region 
at the cost of insecurity in others is not only impossible, 
but  it  also  leads  to  greater  insecurity  everywhere. 
Terrorists  have  even  gone  as  far  as  claiming  to  have 
established States in the Levant, Iraq and Libya. More 
unfortunately, they hide their nefarious intents behind 
religious  literature,  thereby  turning  a  compassionate 
religion  into  an  instrument  of  violence  and  terror  by 
spreading  extremist  and  takfiri  propaganda,  which  is 
all too regrettable.
The century that began with terror and violence in 
New York should not continue with hostile competition 
and expanding conflicts in the Middle East. Today the 
discourse  of  hatred  and  violence  in  the  Middle  East 
and North Africa is spreading with astonishing speed. 
The region is caught in a web of the most savage and 
destructive of policies. Millions of Syrians are stranded 
in deserts or on high seas, and hundreds of thousands of 
them die a violent death. Iraqis of every ethnic group are 
concerned about their territorial integrity and the future 
of  their  homeland.  The  defenceless  people  of  Yemen 
are subjected to daily aerial bombardments. Following 
decades of occupation and atrocities, Afghanistan has 
yet to be released from the grip of suffering, violence 
and  terror.  The  oppressed  Palestinians  continue  to  be 
afflicted by the apartheid policies and atrocities set by 
the usurping Zionist regime.
Undoubtedly, if the region is to reverse the current 
dangerous  trends  and  move  towards  development  and 
stability,  certain  countries  must  stop  bombing  their 
neighbours  and  abandon  their  support  for  takfiri 
terrorist  groups,  while  accepting  responsibility  and 
trying  to  compensate  for  past  mistakes.  If  the  Saudi 
Government is serious about its vision for development 
and regional security, it must cease and desist from the 
use of divisive policies, stop spreading hate ideology and 
refrain from trampling upon the rights of neighbours. 
It  must  accept  its  responsibility  for  the  protection  of 
the lives and dignity of pilgrims and construct relations 
with  the  nations  in  the  region  on  the  basis  of  mutual 
respect and accountability.
The  future  of  our  region  rests  on  dealing  with 
fundamental challenges, including security crises. Due 
to  inefficiency  and  lack  of  Government  legitimacy, 
we  will  not  be  able  to  combat  criminal  and  terrorist 
networks without genuine democracy or a participatory 
approach at national and transnational levels. We believe 
that countries in our region can create a shared future 
on the basis of their common history and culture and by 
isolating terrorist groups. We should never again allow 
our region to run the risk of dismemberment, given the 
impact of what took place close to a century ago.
Iran’s  principled  approach  calls  for  constructive 
partnership  with  our  neighbours,  with  a  view  to 
establishing an enduring order based on shared security 
and  efforts  aimed  at  enhancing  the  developments  of 
countries in the region and mutually beneficial economic 
cooperation. In order to uproot violence in the region 
12/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
there is no choice but to focus on promoting democracy, 
citizenship rights and economic development.
Iran  opposes  any  kind  of  sectarianism  and  any 
attempt  to  promote  religious  divisions.  For  centuries, 
the Muslim people, be they Shiites or Sunnis, have lived 
and  continue  to  live  together  in  harmony  and  mutual 
respect. Attempts to turn religious dissimilarities into 
tense confrontations are rooted in the vested interests of 
certain countries, which are trying to hide their quests 
for  power  behind  religious  slogans.  Iran  considers  it 
imperative to preserve the territorial integrity of States, 
keep national borders intact, enhance people’s right to 
self-determination and uphold the principle of refraining 
from  the  threat  or  use  of  force.  We  also  reiterate  the 
need to use diplomacy in conflict resolution.
Despite 
today’s  difficulties,  I  have  hope 
in 
tomorrow. I have no doubt that we can prevail through 
prudence and wisdom. The experience acquired through 
dialogue between Iran and the P5+1 and the fruition of 
the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  (JCPOA)  are 
indicative of the success that we could achieve through 
moderation, constructive interaction and the promotion 
of  dialogue.  A  long,  complicated  and  unnecessary 
crisis  was  brought  to  an  end  by  the  adoption  of  a 
win-win  approach.  The  deal  confirmed  the  peaceful 
nature  of  Iran’s  nuclear  programme  through  the  use 
of  confidence-building  mechanisms  and  entails  the 
closure  of  the  so-called  possible  military  dimensions 
file  and  the  reinstatement  of  Iran’s  right  to  develop  a 
peaceful nuclear programme.
The  deal  also  has  put  an  end  to  unfounded 
concerns, leading to the removal of the brutal sanctions 
imposed against Iran. Beyond the nuclear file, however, 
the  JCPOA  holds  important  lessons  the  resolving 
complicated  international  problems.  The  deal  is  not 
only a political agreement; it also represents a creative 
approach  and  method  for  engaging  in  constructive 
interaction  with  a  view  to  peacefully  resolving  crises 
and  challenges.  The  lessons  learned  from  the  JCPOA 
will  serve  to  improve  international  relations.  We 
should never forget that these pressures, sanctions and 
illegal  threats  against  the  Iranian  people,  designed  to 
fully  dismantle  Iran’s  enrichment  programme,  were 
all  defeated.  Today,  the  Security  Council  and  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  have  formally 
accepted Iran’s peaceful nuclear programme.
The  United  States  is  fully  aware  that  the  JCPOA 
constitutes  a  recognized  multilateral  agreement  and 
that  any  failure  on  the  part  of  the  United  States  in 
implementing it would constitute an wrongful act under 
international law, to which the international community 
would object. Any failure in the implementation of the 
JCPOA will further erode the credibility of the United 
States around the world.
Breaches  in  compliance  with  the  JCPOA  by  the 
United States in the past several months represents an 
error that should be rectified forthwith. Unfortunately, 
such  illegal  actions  are  not  unprecedented.  The  latest 
example  of  this  is  the  recent  United  States  Supreme 
Court ruling which affirmed the legality of the seizure 
of billions of dollars in assets belonging to the Iranian 
people.  This  experience  demonstrates  that  Zionist 
pressure  groups  could  go  so  far  as  to  persuade  the 
United States Congress to pass indefensible legislation 
that forces the highest American judicial institution to 
violate peremptory norms of international law.
With  God’s  help,  the  Iranian  people’s  fortitude 
and the increased participation of Iran’s partners from 
various regions around the world, and only eight months 
after  the  lifting  of  the  cruel  nuclear-related  sanctions 
against my country, the economy of Iran, as the safest 
and  most  profitable  destination  for  investment  in  our 
region, is showing clear improvement. Iran’s economic 
growth rate surpassed 4 per cent in the spring of 2016, 
the inflation rate dropped to single digits, and Iran has 
come close to pre-sanction levels of oil production and 
exports. All in all, we are seeing greater development 
in the economic, scientific and technological sectors of 
the country.
Iran is one of the rare oil-producing countries that 
may be able to offset the shocking impact of the sharp 
slide in oil price in 2014. In order to attract investment, 
we  are  intent  on  strengthening  economic  stability 
and  consistency  through  economic  reforms  and  fiscal 
and financial discipline while preserving low rates of 
inflation. Economic growth is set to increase to around 
5 per cent by the end of 2016. Based on all domestic and 
international predictions, Iran is currently enjoying one 
the highest growth rates among oil-producing countries.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  clearly  state  that  it 
is  my  deep  belief  that,  despite  setbacks,  moderation 
will  prevail  over  extremism,  peace  will  triumph  over 
violence,  enlightenment  will  overcome 
ignorance 
and,  finally,  justice  will  conquer  injustice.  What  is 
important  is  that  we  channel  our  beliefs,  hopes  and 
efforts towards realizing peace and justice. If we do so, 
16-29553
13/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
there is no doubt that the Almighty will assist all those 
who endeavour for peace, justice and moderation, and 
that God will help those who assist Him by defending 
his path, for the Lord is strong and mighty.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hery Martial Rajaonarimampianina 
Rakotoarimanana, President of the Republic 
of Madagascar
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Madagascar.
Hery  Martial 
Rajaonarimampianina 
Mr. 
Rakotoarimanana,  President  of 
the  Republic 
of  Madagascar,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Hery Martial 
Rajaonarimampianina  Rakotoarimanana,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Madagascar,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President Rajaonarimampianina Rakotoarimanana 
(spoke  in  French):  At  the  outset,  on  behalf  of  the 
delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Madagascar  that  I  lead, 
I  congratulate  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  on  his  election  as 
President of the General Assembly at its seventy-first 
session and wish him every success in presiding over 
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  during  the  current 
session. At the same time, we would like to convey our 
heartfelt appreciation to his predecessor.
By  submitting,  together  with  21  other  countries, 
a  voluntary  national  review  report  in  the  framework 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
Madagascar  reaffirms  and  solidifies  the  political 
commitment  it  undertook  when  it  signed  on  to  the 
global mobilization last year which led to the adoption 
of  the  2030  Agenda,  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  and  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda.  Those 
objectives,  which  we  all  wanted  to  be  universal,  do 
not  apply  only  to  developing  or  poor  countries,  but 
rather  to  all  countries,  adjusted  to  local  realities  and 
development differentials, because a sustainable world 
can  be  built  only  upon  an  ecology-friendly  transition 
in the North and responsible development in the South.
The hopes sparked by the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) are immense. Nevertheless, we must move 
from commitments to action and implementation. The 
major challenges are the redistribution of investments, 
improving  social  justice  and  translating  international 
commitments  into  national  strategies  and  political 
action. Human development, environmental protection 
and inclusive economies are the triptych that structures 
the  SDGs.  They  align  with  our  national  development 
plan. In order to achieve the Sustainable Development 
Goals, Madagascar is promoting social protection. This 
year, we formulated and implemented a national policy 
in that regard. By way of example, we provide income 
supplements for the poorest households to support the 
integration  of  children  into  the  school  system  and  to 
improve their nutrition through school cafeterias.
In addition to the social protection I just mentioned, 
health  and  education  are  sectors  that  we  hold  dear. 
Health is key for our country, as it is the best way to 
ensure the productivity of our people, both at school and 
in the workplace. That is why the draft universal health-
coverage system was set up this year as part of our efforts 
to improve our public-health system. This policy will 
provide heath-care solutions for our people, especially 
the most vulnerable. Furthermore, the Government has 
committed itself to increasing vaccination coverage in 
Madagascar  through  a  vaccination  law.  Other  health-
related efforts have been made with the United Nations 
in  recent  years,  particularly  in  the  fight  against  HIV/
AIDS.  In  the  education  sector,  we  have  been  able  to 
begin  recruiting  and  training  tens  of  thousands  of 
teachers  in  an  attempt  to  raise  the  school  attendance 
rate, to help school dropouts go back to school and to 
improve the quality of our teaching.
and 
initiatives.  Economic 
Our  young  people,  women  and  girls  are 
the  cornerstone  of  all  of  our  public  policies  and 
development 
social 
development, and, in particular, conditions for making 
the world more stable will be in vain if priority is not 
given to young people. From this rostrum, I call on all 
countries to collectively resolve to assist one another, in 
order to support development policies for young people. 
We need to create jobs for them, develop their talents 
and  meet  their  legitimate  aspirations  to  contribute  to 
world peace and curb migration.
14/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
Protecting  and  empowering  women  and  young 
girls, ensuring their equal rights and gender parity in 
development  participation  and  respecting  the  rights 
of  children  and  young  people  are  at  the  heart  of  our 
concerns and our thinking. We will continue to reform 
our national plans and policies in order to promote equal 
access for women and men to economic resources and 
basic  services.  One  notable  achievement  in  Malagasy 
women’s rights was the reform of the nationality code to 
allow children born to a Malagasy mother and a foreign 
father  to  acquire  Malagasy  citizenship  through  the 
maternal  line,  irrespective  of  the  father’s  nationality. 
Similarly,  in  the  interest  of  being  all  inclusive,  the 
ratification  of  the  international  Convention  on  the 
Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities  has  allowed  us 
to  improve  the  protection  offered  to  people  with 
disabilities  in  Madagascar  by  implementing  inclusive 
policies that safeguard their interests and allow them to 
effectively participate in development.
Sustainable Development Goal 2 seeks to end hunger, 
achieve  food  security,  improve  nutrition  and  promote 
sustainable agriculture. Our ambition is to modernize 
our  agriculture  sector  to  increase  productivity  and 
further  develop  organic  farming.  That  would  ensure 
food  autonomy  and  accelerate  the  completion  of  the 
regional  project  of  the  Indian  Ocean  Commission  to 
transform  Madagascar  into  the  breadbasket  of  the 
region. Programmes to combat food insecurity are part 
of our efforts to achieve the SDGs. Much of the south 
of the country is in the gripsof chronic drought, and the 
population living there is suffering greatly from critical 
food insecurity. As a result, various activities are being 
carried  out  to  support  the  efforts  of  the  Madagascan 
authorities in the light of this critical situation.
Sustainable  Development  Goal  14  advocates 
conserving  and  sustainably  using  oceans,  seas  and 
marine  resources  for  sustainable  development.  The 
awareness of the need to diversify efforts beyond land-
based  activities  is  nothing  new.  We  support  Africa’s 
strategy,  which  is  aimed  at  creating  greater  wealth 
by  promoting  a  flourishing  blue  economy  that  is 
sustainable, secure and respectful of the environment. 
With this in mind and within the context of the Indian 
Ocean Commission, a decision was taken to establish 
the  Regional  Maritime  Information  Fusion  Centre  in 
Madagascar to prevent threats such as piracy, terrorism, 
trafficking  in  its  many  forms  and  the  plundering  of 
natural resources.
By  signing  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change on 22 April and then ratifying it, Madagascar 
has chosen to participate in the universal movement to 
transform the world, thereby ensuring the future of our 
planet  —  our  sole  and  unique  habitat.  Madagascar  is 
one  of  the  countries  permanently  suffering  from  the 
devastating effects of climate change. Nevertheless, we 
advocate  responsible  development  that  preserves  the 
environment. In return, we expect an equal distribution 
of  resources  from  the  Green  Climate  Fund  and  the 
transfer of relevant technologies. We must turn our back 
on  expensive,  pollutant  energy  sources  that  endanger 
the environment we share.
My  country  once  again  calls  for  the  support  of 
the  international  community  and  private  investors, 
in  particular  in  the  electricity-production  sector  and 
in  the  renovation  and  expansion  of  water-distribution 
infrastructures. These are real investment opportunities. 
Indeed, if we wish to breathe new life into our planet 
for the well-being of its population and for the benefit 
of future generations, we must successfully ensure the 
transition  to  new  kinds  of  energy  at  the  national  and 
global levels. We also wish to promote ethical tourism 
that  respects  the  environment,  our  ecosystems  and 
our culture.
foreign 
Today, I wish to launch an appeal for the transfer 
of  more  technology  and  capital  to  countries  that 
demonstrate strong potential, such as Madagascar. For 
our part, we commit to practicing good governance and 
transparency in the context of a win-win partnership. 
Both  direct 
and  overseas 
development aid are valuable support mechanisms that 
we should channel in the best possible way and manage 
effectively in order to achieve the SDGs. That is why 
my  country  will  invite  our  partners  and  international 
investors  to  Paris  next  December  for  a  donor  and 
investor conference in order to mobilize the resources 
we need for our development programme.
investment 
Seventy-one  years  following  the  creation  of  our 
Organization, we must acknowledge that much remains 
to be done in a world where we adjust far too quickly 
to  misery,  poverty  and  the  precarious  nature  of  life, 
where far too quickly we accept injustice and persistent 
inequality, conflict, crisis and even war. However, we 
must  admit  that  the  United  Nations  has  documented 
major  achievements  and  progress  over  the  years.  We 
remain  firmly  convinced  that  the  United  Nations 
today  embodies  a  universal  conscience  recognized 
and  respected  by  the  international  order,  as  well  as 
16-29553
15/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
political  will  at  the  global  level.  It  is  a  forum  where 
nations  can  come  to  plead  and  explain  their  cause  to 
the rest of the world. The most important thing is the 
respect of and follow-up to commitments, which is key 
to building trust.
On 17 June in Paris, upon the initiative of the French 
authorities,  we  restarted  negotiations  concerning  the 
Malagasy islands of Glorieuses, Juan de Nova, Europa 
and  Bassas  da  India,  the  latter  three  located  in  the 
Mozambique Channel. Madagascar is delighted at the 
initiative, which from our point of view is in line with 
the  implementation  of  the  relevant  General  Assembly 
resolutions.  In  paragraph  3  of  resolution  34/91,  of 
12 December 1979, the Assembly
“[i]nvites 
the  Government  of  France 
to 
initiate negotiations without further delay with the 
Government of Madagascar for the reintegration of 
the above-mentioned islands, which were arbitrarily 
separated from Madagascar”.
Resolution 35/123, of 11 December 1980, supplements 
the 1979 resolution as it
“[i]nvites the Government of France to initiate 
with the Government of Madagascar, as a matter of 
urgency, the negotiations provided for in resolution 
34/91,  with  a  view  to  settling  the  question  in 
accordance with the purposes and principles of the 
Charter of the United Nations” (resolution 35/123, 
para. 4).
international 
law  concerning 
Madagascar  would  hope  that  the  discussions  that 
have been started will take place in full respect of the 
provisions of the Manila Declaration on the settlement 
of international disputes, enshrined in resolution 37/10, 
of 15 November 1982. The resolution underscores, inter 
alia,  the  obligations  stemming  from  the  fundamental 
principles  of 
the 
sovereignty,  independence  and  territorial  integrity 
of  States  as  well  as  the  other  generally  recognized 
principles and norms of contemporary international law.
On matters of peace and security, I wish to reiterate 
my Government’s gratitude to the United Nations and to 
the Peacebuilding Support Office, which agreed to the 
Peacebuilding Fund for Madagascar at the end of 2014. 
This  year  marks  the  operational  phase  of  the  Fund’s 
priority  plan,  focusing  on  two  main  projects:  support 
for  reform  of  the  security  sector  and  for  governance 
in Madagascar.
In the past 10 years, one man in particular has held 
high  the  torch  of  the  United  Nations  and  championed 
the values and principles that we all share. As I conclude 
my  statement,  I  wish  to  pay  well-deserved  tribute  to 
our dear Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, whose 
mandate is coming to an end this year. His commitment 
to  peace  and  development  throughout  the  world,  his 
personal  commitment  and  the  way  in  which  he  has 
headed  this  Organization  have  earned  our  gratitude, 
esteem and respect.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Madagascar for the statement he has 
just made.
Hery  Martial 
Mr. 
Rajaonarimampianina 
Rakotoarimanana,  President  of 
the  Republic 
of  Madagascar,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Taneti Maamau, President, Head of 
Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
Immigration of the Republic of Kiribati
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President, 
Head of Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Immigration of the Republic of Kiribati.
Mr. Taneti Maamau, President, Head of Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Immigration 
of  the  Republic  of  Kiribati,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Taneti  Maamau,  President,  Head  of  Government 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Immigration  of 
the Republic of Kiribati, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President Maamau: I am very pleased to address, 
for  the  first  time,  this  global  family  of  ours  at  its 
seventy-first  gathering,  on  behalf  of  the  Government 
and the people of Kiribati.
I 
speakers 
join  previous 
in  congratulating 
President  Peter  Thomson  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
first  session.  I  am  particularly  proud  to  see  a  Pacific 
brother leading this body during this critical period of 
transformation.  I  have  every  confidence  that  with  his 
16/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
able leadership and Pacific wisdom, he will be able to 
guide  us  through  these  challenging  times.  He  can  be 
assured of our full support and cooperation.
the  commendable 
I  also  join  colleagues  in  acknowledging  with 
appreciation 
leadership  of  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  of  Denmark,  in 
guiding our work during the seventieth session and in 
facilitating the implementation of the new 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development.
This  is  a  transitional  period  for  us  all.  I  am  very 
happy that my first general debate coincides with the 
assumption  of  the  Pacific  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly. I am quite sad, though, that this is the 
last  general  debate  of  our  beloved  Secretary-General. 
I  have  read  about  and  observed  the  untiring  service 
that  our  Secretary-General  has  given  humankind  and 
his  personal  unwavering  commitment  and  passion 
in  focusing  global  attention  on  the  most  vulnerable, 
particularly the small and low-lying island countries as 
well as the communities on the front line of the many 
major challenges facing us today as a global family.
I am so proud to say that Mr. Ban Ki-moon is the 
first Secretary-General to ever have visited my country 
and our part of the world in the Pacific in the 71 years 
of the existence of this premier global body. This is a 
very  rare  opportunity,  and  I  would  like  to  personally 
thank and commend Mr. Ban Ki-moon for having taken 
that bold initiative. It is my sincere hope that the next 
visit  of  our  Secretary-General  to  my  country  and  the 
Pacific will be soon, not 60 or 70 years from now. This 
will be part of the transformation that we expect from 
our United Nations family.
Allow  me,  on  this  note,  to  acknowledge  and 
commend,  with  heartfelt  gratitude, 
the  sterling 
leadership  of  our  Secretary-General,  Ban  Ki-moon.  I 
thank and commend him for being a steadfast advocate 
for and the voice of the voiceless. I thank and commend 
him  for  instilling  our  United  Nations  family  and 
reaffirming  an  inclusive  culture  that  ensures  that  no 
one is left behind. The legacy he will leave is enshrined 
in the new sustainable development Agenda and in the 
Paris Agreement, the catalyst for global attention and 
action on climate change.
On  behalf  of  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
Kiribati,  I  wish  our  Secretary-General  the  very  best 
as he concludes his term as head of this global family 
of  ours  and  as  he  takes  on  the  next  challenge  in  his 
unwavering service to humankind.
We meet at a very critical time in our history. The 
challenges  facing  us  as  we  gather  at  this  session  are 
perhaps greater than when we met a year ago. We note 
with grave concern the increasing security challenges 
facing  our  global  family,  from  conflicts  around  the 
world, the scourge of terrorism, transnational organized 
crime,  war  and  nuclear  testing,  mass  movements 
of  refugees  and  migrants,  to  the  often  unstated  but 
invisible silent killer, the non-communicable diseases, 
the health of our oceans and other looming challenges 
and  uncertainties,  some  with  incremental  but  very 
real  existential  threats  such  as  climate  change.  These 
continue to undermine our efforts as a global family to 
achieve sustainable development.
I would also like to add that the new session provides 
a great opportunity for all of us — an opportunity to 
reaffirm and renew our commitment to our people and 
our  planet.  This  is  an  opportunity  to  achieve  peace 
and  prosperity  for  all  through  genuine  partnerships, 
to  consolidate  our  efforts  and  resources  in  order  to 
address the challenges we face, and to realize our vision 
for bringing about an inclusive world. As leaders, it is 
our  opportunity  to  deliver  on  our  commitments.  We 
have a moral responsibility to do that, and we must do 
so forthwith.
The  theme  of  this  session  —  “The  Sustainable 
Development  Goals:  a  universal  push  to  transform 
our  world” —  is  a  timely  and  appropriate  one.  For  if 
we  are  to  address  the  challenges  we  face  and  realize 
the  opportunities  available  to  us,  we  must  change 
our mindset, our path and our ways. And we must do 
this together.
Climate change is a global challenge that requires 
universal  transformation.  We  simply  cannot  afford  to 
continue  with  business  as  usual.  The  future  of  those 
of us who are most vulnerable, such as my people and 
my country, is at stake. We need major changes in the 
global  mindset,  the  global  development  pathways  and 
the ways we do business. We must do this if we are to 
secure the future of my people and those who share the 
same fate, and to ensure that we are not left behind.
Every  year,  my  country  comes  to  this  family 
gathering  with  constant  cries  for  help  in  stopping  the 
momentum of global warming and in assisting countries 
like  mine  to  adapt  to  the  adverse  impact  of  climate 
change. It is distressing to see our people continuing to 
fight the effects of the onslaught of sea-level rises, storm 
surges and disasters such as Cyclone Pam and Cyclone 
16-29553
17/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
Winston on their homes, farmland and livelihood, their 
heritage and their critical source of water. And I must 
say that the increasing frequency and severity of such 
events  has  exacerbated  their  heartbreaking  impact  on 
our people.
In some parts of our country, whole villages have 
had  to  be  relocated  because  of  severe  coastal  erosion 
and  flooding.  Food  crops  have  been  destroyed.  Our 
freshwater lenses, our major source of drinking water, 
are  being  increasingly  contaminated  by  intruding 
seawater. As we enter the La Niña period, with drought 
forecast  for  our  country,  water  scarcity  is  already  an 
issue for our people in both urban and rural areas, which 
has the potential to trigger other risks, for example, to 
sanitation,  health  and  education.  Kiribati  is  closely 
monitoring the situation and is seriously considering the 
immediate options for ensuring our people’s survival.
We  urgently  call  for  assistance  from  our  United 
Nations  family  and  its  members,  asking  them  to  look 
into  their  hearts  and  help  us  address  this  looming, 
life-threatening  issue  as  soon  as  possible.  This  is 
an  issue  that  cannot  wait  for  the  Paris  Agreement 
ratification  process  to  happen.  I  came  here  straight 
from a meeting of our Parliament that was held because 
my  people,  especially  our  younger  generation,  are 
unremittingly protesting the increasing intensity of the 
effects  of  climate  change.  They  are  demanding  swift 
action right now, without procrastination.
The  adoption  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  last  year  gave  humankind  a  sense  of  hope, 
embodying the global consensus that climate change is 
happening and must be resolved as soon as possible. It 
is a major first step in global action to counter climate 
change. The next challenge is to ensure the Agreement’s 
early  entry  into  force.  In  this  regard,  I  am  pleased  to 
say that following our signing of the Paris Agreement 
in April, I had the honour yesterday of depositing my 
country’s  instrument  of  ratification  during  the  high-
level event for the entry into force of the Agreement. 
We  are  fully  committed  to  the  Agreement  and  to  all 
climate-related  undertakings  aimed  at  ensuring  that 
our global family addresses the root causes and impacts 
of climate change.
line in the future. I commend our bigger brothers in our 
global family, notably China and the United States, for 
their commitment to this process. I urge the rest of our 
United Nations family to join them and help save those 
who  urgently  require  immediate  support  and  action 
to  make  it  happen.  This  is  an  opportunity  for  us  as 
leaders to push for an early entry into force of the Paris 
Agreement and transform our world for our generation 
and, more importantly, for future generations.
This  is  an  opportunity  for  us  to  take  care  of  one 
another. And we must do it together, as a family. There 
is a huge risk of being left behind for low-lying island 
nations such as mine — Tuvalu, the Marshall Islands, 
Tokelau,  Tonga,  the  Maldives  and  countless  others 
whose  peoples  live  in  coastal  areas  prone  to  drought, 
desertification, flooding and typhoons.
The global challenges facing our people, especially 
the  most  vulnerable,  continue  to  test  our  humanity, 
love  and  compassion,  which  are  powerful  ingredients 
for  achieving  the  global  transformation  that  can  lead 
to  the  future  we  all  want.  If  we  fail  to  achieve  this 
transformation, we will be failing the people who look 
to  us  for  leadership  in  improving  their  quality  of  life 
and securing a future for them, their children and their 
children’s children.
The President opened this session of the Assembly 
with his grandchildren by his side. It was a moving and 
significant  moment,  reminding  all  of  us  of  our  most 
important constituents, our children and their children. 
In his opening statement, he rightly said that it is our 
call  to  make,  because  if  we  fail,  we  have  failed  our 
grandchildren. As a leader and a grandfather, I am fully 
committed to serving and delivering to all the children 
and grandchildren of our global family.
The  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
have not been developed in a vacuum. They have been 
reflected over the years in one form or another in our 
own development plans. It is therefore to the national 
level that we should direct implementation assistance, 
including with additional resources, capacity-building 
and technology transfers. That is where such assistance 
can  make  a  big  difference  in  improving  our  peoples’ 
lives, especially at the grassroots level.
The  suffering  of  our  people  must  stop  now.  The 
Paris  Agreement  will  not  only  help  us  address  our 
challenges  as  a  low-lying  atoll  nation  already  on 
the  front  line;  it  can  also  save  others  on  the  way  to 
increasing  vulnerability  from  ending  up  on  the  front 
It  will  be  a  challenge  if  we  have  to  continue 
to  compete  for  resources  within  our  multilateral 
agencies.  On  that  note,  I  wish  to  acknowledge  with 
deep  appreciation  the  continuing  assistance  for  our 
sustainable development efforts from our development 
18/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
partners.  But  implementing  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development will require much more. The 
universal push to transform our world requires all of us 
to contribute. It requires a global effort.
It is troubling to note that for years, indeed decades, 
our  global  family  has  often  ignored  the  support  and 
instrumental  role  of  those  who  have  contributed  to 
the  implementation  of  our  sustainable  development 
goals.  As  some  of  us  would  acknowledge,  Taiwan 
has  served  as  a  significant  partner  and  contributed 
significantly to achieving the objectives of our global 
family. This must be acknowledged and the increased 
and meaningful participation of Taiwan in international 
processes  should  be  encouraged.  We  need  our  global 
transformation to include those who can contribute to 
the effective implementation of the SDGs.
I strongly believe that effective global transformation 
must start with leadership at the individual, community, 
Government  and  national  levels.  Good  governance, 
transparency  and  accountability  have  been 
the 
fundamental  guiding  principles  of  my  Government 
since  our  assumption  of  office  over  six  months  ago. 
They underpin our overarching policy objective to serve 
and to deliver to our people as responsible leaders.
I  am  very  proud  to  say  that  at  our  first  meeting 
of  Parliament,  we  established  a  select  committee 
on  anti-corruption.  Just  last  week,  the  Government 
submitted draft legislation to our Parliament on a code of 
conduct for leaders. In addition, during the same week, 
our Parliament passed a constitutional amendment that 
established a new Ministry of Justice. This will lead to 
a strengthening of our justice system and elevate levels 
of transparency and accountability. We firmly believe 
that, as a Government, we can transform our nation for 
the better if our actions as leaders are underpinned by 
strong principles of good governance, transparency and 
accountability. This promotes our people’s confidence 
and trust in their representatives.
If  we  are  serious  and  genuine  about  the  true 
transformation  that  we  are  talking  about,  then  I 
challenge all of us, as leaders and representatives of our 
peoples,  to  ask  ourselves  this  fundamental  question: 
what  is  the  greatest  value  and  gift  we  have  to  give 
that  can  break  the  barriers  between  our  peoples,  our 
communities,  our  nations  and  our  global  family  and 
truly transform our world? The answer is simple and the 
common denominator is also straightforward: it is our 
hearts and our love. This has been a missing ingredient 
in our recipe for global peace and security. Our biggest 
challenge here at the United Nations is that we have not 
been sharing our hearts and our love with each other. In 
fact, over the past 70 years, what we have been doing is 
fighting within our own family. 
I truly believe that the heart of our United Nations 
family  is  the  heart  of  all  nations,  big  and  small, 
land-locked  and  sea-locked,  rich  and  poor,  the  most 
vulnerable  and  the  least  vulnerable.  The  heart  of  the 
United Nations should therefore beat for everyone, not 
just a few. Just this morning, I had the gracious honour 
and privilege to join the Federation of World Peace and 
Love in ringing a bell for love and peace in the world 
with  a  special  prayer  for  Kiribati.  This  is  a  reminder 
to  the  world,  particularly  to  all  of  us  leaders,  of  our 
fundamental role as peacemakers.
We are reminded every day of the very purpose of 
this United Nations family — to promote and maintain 
peace and security in all its forms. It is a major challenge 
but  a  challenge  that  I  believe  can  be  overcome  if  we 
start working together as a true United Nations family 
with  love,  care,  compassion,  understanding,  respect 
and tolerance. This is a true global transformation that 
can help our United Nations family serve its members 
and deliver solutions and results.
We are called upon to take up the challenge of this 
United Nations family gathering and ask whether or not 
we  can  transform  ourselves  and  make  a  difference  in 
the name of love — a simple but powerful and inclusive 
four-letter word that resonates in the four corners of the 
world. As we contemplate this question, I would like to 
conclude  by  sharing  a  poem  that  represents  our  hope 
and  identity  —  an  identity  that  we  will  fight  to  save 
as  long  as  we  can.  We  need  help  in  this  fight  so  that 
a part of this global family does not get left behind or 
lose its liberty or identity. The title of the poem is “My 
Frigatebird”.
inspiration in the centre.
and my garland everywhere.
you are my beauty in the north.
“Cloaked in black, white-bellied, and fork-tailed,

With your long and graceful wings, you are my

As you speed across the deep vast ocean, you are
  my sanctuary in the south.
With your clicking, wheezy calls, you are my song 

On a banner of blue, white, yellow and red, you

ascend beyond the waves and the sun’s rays.
Now you struggle against storms and westerly

winds to find food and nesting.
16-29553
19/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
for you are the fulcrum of the universe.
over the perilous tides from the east and fly 
brave and proud on the currents of wind, for 
you are and will always be my transformation.
But you will never leave in haste nor go in flight,

Arise, my frigate bird with valor and strength, rise 



Proud am I to be an I-Kiribati — my frigatebird,
  my liberty, my identity.”
In  closing,  I  share  with  everyone  in  this  Hall  our 
hearts,  our  love  and  now  our  traditional  blessing  for 
health, peace and prosperity: “Te Mauri, Te Raoi ao Te 
Tabomoa”.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President, 
Head of Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and  Immigration  of  the  Republic  of  Kiribati  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Taneti Maamau, President, Head of Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Immigration 
of the Republic of Kiribati, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Patrice Athanase Guillaume Talon, 
President of the Republic of Benin
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Benin.
Mr. Patrice Athanase Guillaume Talon, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Benin,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Patrice  Athanase  Guillaume  Talon,  President  of 
the Republic of Benin, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
President  Talon  (spoke  in  French):  I  would  like 
to  start  by  congratulating  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-first session. I would also like to recognize his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  for  the  excellent 
work  he  accomplished  while  President.  I  particularly 
wish to thank and congratulate Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon for his efforts and service to stability, peace, 
security and development in the world.
Benin  warmly  welcomes  the  theme  of  this  year’s 
session,  entitled  “The  Sustainable  Development 
Goals: a universal push to transform our world”, as it 
appropriately responds to current concerns. The world 
has  always  managed  to  mobilize  and  organize  itself 
when  facing  difficult  challenges  or  global  threats. 
The challenge of climate change has led us to put our 
heads  together  and  to  take  the  decision  to  mobilize 
substantial resources.
and 
destabilizing 
Today’s  open  world  will  suffer  more  than  ever 
from  the  consequences  of  poverty  —  in  particular, 
uncontrollable 
migration 
movements — if nothing is done. Mass poverty has now 
become  a  major  threat  to  humankind.  It  has  become 
urgent to put in place a global programme to eradicate 
mass  poverty,  with  the  same  determination  that  led 
us  to  hold  the  twenty-first  session  of  the  Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change.  That  being  so,  from 
this rostrum I call on the most developed countries and 
the institutions that finance development to implement 
strong and collective action, with a view to eradicating 
poverty,  which  is  dangerously  sidelining  the  majority 
of African countries.
Mr. El Haycen (Mauritania), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
The  international  community  has  the  capacity  to 
do this, as it recently demonstrated when it prevented 
Greece  and  Ukraine  from  collapsing.  That  effort  did 
not ruin the countries or the institutions that mobilized 
themselves  in  the  rescue  operation.  To  quickly  and 
efficiently  eradicate  poverty  and  underdevelopment 
in  Africa,  that  same  will,  but  not  necessarily  more 
resources, will be required. Of course, African countries 
will  need  to  assume  their  share  of  responsibility  by 
doing  more  for  political  stability  and,  above  all,  for 
good governance.
My country Benin is committed to this approach and 
has initiated the necessary political, administrative and 
good-governance  reforms.  One  can  add  to  this  nearly 
half a century of political stability as well as a mature 
democracy  —  all  of  these  elements  give  Benin  the 
ability to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, 
provided that the country receives adequate support.
I would like to state that my country is committed 
to  contributing  actively  to  the  implementation  of  the 
decisions on climate change that were adopted during 
the  Paris  Conference.  I  note  that  Benin  has  already 
signed the Paris Agreement and the ratification process 
is ongoing. To conclude, I wish to reiterate that Benin 
20/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
remains committed within the international community 
to  transforming  the  world  with  a  view  to  achieving  a 
shared well-being.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Benin for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr. Patrice Athanase Guillaume Talon, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Benin,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the 
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire.
 Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the Republic 
of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alassane 
Ouattara,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Ouattara  (spoke 
in  French):  Our 
session is taking place amid grim economic and social 
circumstances  that  may  slow  down  our  collective 
progress  in  combating  poverty,  reducing  inequalities 
and  implementing  development  programmes.  Despite 
these particular circumstances, we must be tireless in 
our pursuit to implement the Sustainable Development 
Goals  (SDGs)  and  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development in the next 15 years.
We must win the fight against abject poverty and 
suffering  to  spare  humankind  the  potentially  tragic 
consequences of failed development. That is why I invite 
developed countries to honour all their commitments to 
developing  countries  in  the  context  of  the  SDGs  and 
development  financing.  Here,  I  remind  the  Assembly 
of the commitments made in July 2015 in Addis Ababa 
at the Third International Conference on Financing for 
Development, and also those made regarding Goal 17 
of the SDGs, as well as such specific instruments as the 
Green Climate Fund.
I  welcome  the  choice  of  theme  for  the  session, 
which reminds us of the need to accelerate the pace of 
change in our societies and to give more opportunities 
and  means  to  our  most  vulnerable  populations.  We 
must therefore build productive economies if we wish 
to implement the SDG road map. Our true aspirations 
for sustainable development must also be mindful of the 
environment  and  our  determination  to  combat  global 
warming. We paved the way in Paris, and we must all 
implement the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and 
honour our commitments.
My  country’s 
implementation  of 
the  Paris 
Agreement  is  under  way.  The  Agreement  has  been 
deemed  to  be  in  accordance  with  our  Constitution, 
and  my  Government  will  deposit  its  instruments  of 
ratification  before  the  end  of  the  year.  Through  our 
National  Development  Programme  2016-2020  and 
our  Côte  d’Ivoire  Perspectives  2040,  we  intend  to 
mobilize  the  means  required  to  implement  the  SDGs. 
The  positive  economic  situation  in  our  country  has 
already enabled us to improve all social indicators and 
embark on a comprehensive process to reduce poverty 
and redistribute the dividends of economic growth. All 
these achievements will be fully enjoyed by our people 
in the long term.
The  ongoing  nature  of  many  conflicts  remains 
a  true  concern  for  my  country.  Our  Organization, 
in  particular  the  Security  Council  and  the  main 
stakeholders  concerned,  must  surpass  themselves  by 
engaging every means possible to end the suffering of 
the peoples in Syria, the Middle East, South Sudan and 
Mali, to mention but those conflicts. Even if the Council 
reflects our aspirations, the Council cannot effectively 
resolve  the  conflicts  of  our  century  with  its  current 
configuration  and  working  methods.  My  country 
calls  on  all  Member  States  to  act  and  to  carry  out  a 
comprehensive and just reform of the Security Council 
that will further bolster its legitimacy in the eyes of the 
world, and especially of the younger generations.
The  world  must  mobilize  against  terrorism  and 
fight  it  with  the  utmost  resolve  and  determination 
before it inflicts irreparable damage and trauma on our 
countries and societies. Here, I offer a thought for all 
the  victims  of  terrorism  and  express  my  sympathy  to 
all the families who are in mourning around the world 
on  account  of  these  barbaric  acts.  As  many  countries 
before it, my country witnessed unbearable scenes after 
the cowardly attack in Grand Bassam, and that reminds 
us yet again, as if we needed reminding, that no country 
today is safe from a terrorist attack. No country alone 
can eradicate this scourge. It falls on the United Nations 
16-29553
21/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
therefore, to an even greater degree than in the past, to 
coordinate international efforts to combat terrorism.
our gratitude to the United Nations and all the countries 
that provided troops to UNOCI.
Unless  a  collective  effort  is  made  to  bear  the 
cost  of  security  for  all,  our  developing  countries  will 
invest  in  their  national  security  the  resources  that 
would  otherwise  be  spent  on  tomorrow’s  priority 
social  programmes.  We  are  familiar  with  the  serious 
consequences  that  this  would  entail,  given  our  young 
populations.  The  worsening  security  environment  in 
many  countries  has  led  to  a  sudden  rise  in  migratory 
flows of people who are ready to brave all the dangers 
of  a  Mediterranean  crossing  or  a  journey  through 
the  Balkans  to  reach  Europe  in  particular.  Fear  and 
isolation  are  not  an  appropriate  response  when  these 
migrants arrive.
The host countries and the international community 
as a whole must show solidarity and take initiatives in 
order  to  tackle  the  root  causes  of  this  phenomenon. 
Countries  of  origin  must  do  more  to  improve  living 
conditions and create a climate of peace and security for 
their citizens. My Government wishes to welcome the 
progress achieved at the high-level plenary meeting on 
addressing large movements of refugees and migrants, 
held  here  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  early  this 
week. But we must do more and do better.
The  nation  of  Côte  d’Ivoire  is  continuing  to 
develop  and  modernize  its  institutions.  The  economy 
of  Côte  d’Ivoire  continues  to  grow  at  an  average 
annual  rate  of  about  9  per  cent.  This  has  enabled  us 
to  pursue  our  efforts  to  establish  the  economic  and 
social  infrastructures  that  are  needed  to  improve  the 
well-being of our population. Côte d’Ivoire is peaceful. 
The  successful  presidential  election  in  October  2015 
put the seal on the return to peace and stability. In the 
coming months, the Ivorian people will be called on to 
renew the mandate of parliamentarians and to vote on 
a new draft constitution, in line with our desire for a 
modern State.
Given the satisfactory progress of recent years, in 
April the Security Council lifted the sanctions regime 
that had been imposed on Côte d’Ivoire in 2004. In June 
2017,  the  United  Nations  Operation  in  Côte  d’Ivoire 
(UNOCI) will end its mandate and leave Côte d’Ivoire 
once and for all after 12 years of continuous presence. We 
are particularly proud of these developments. UNOCI 
goes down in the history of peacekeeping operations as 
a real success story. I take this opportunity to reiterate 
Given  this  remarkable  progression,  my  country 
has  decided  to  put  forward  its  candidacy  for  a 
non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the 
period 2018-2019. The Economic Community of West 
African States and the African Union have endorsed our 
bid. In that regard, I call on all States Members of our 
Organization to support the candidacy of Côte d’Ivoire 
during the elections to be held in June 2017. Through 
this candidacy, we intend to share with other Member 
States our successful experience of peacekeeping and 
cooperation within the United Nations.
I recall that Côte d’Ivoire has in the past contributed 
to  the  stabilization  efforts  in  the  Congo,  Haiti  and 
Central Africa through the United Nations Organization 
Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo, the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti 
and  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic, 
respectively.  It  is  in  this  spirit  that  Côte  d’Ivoire,  as 
part of the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated 
Stabilization  Mission  in  Mali,  has  worked  side  by 
side with our brothers in Mali in a transport company 
between 2013 and 2015, and we are prepared to send a 
protection  company  of  approximately  150  individuals 
by the end of the year.
I  cannot  conclude  my  statement  without  paying 
a  well-deserved  tribute  and  to  express,  on  behalf 
of  the  people  and  the  Government  of  Côte  d’Ivoire 
and  on  my  own  behalf,  our  profound  gratitude  to  the 
Secretary-General, my friend Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his 
exceptional  contribution  to  peace  in  the  world  and  in 
our country. We commend him for his leadership, for 
the wise way in which he has steered our Organization 
over the past years and for his constant commitment to 
peace,  security  and  development  in  the  world.  As  he 
ends  his  term  in  the  service  of  our  Organization,  we 
wish him well in his future endeavours.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the Republic 
of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
22/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
Address by Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, President of the 
State of Palestine
The  Acting  President (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the State of Palestine.
into 
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of  the  State 
of  Palestine,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahmoud 
Abbas, President of the State of Palestine, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Abbas  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  had  hoped 
that I would not have to deliver this statement today, as 
would have been the case if the cause of my people had 
been genuinely heard and justly resolved and if hearts 
and minds had acted to lift my people from oppression.
As everyone is aware, we accepted the primacy of 
international  law  and  the  resolutions  of  international 
legitimacy, and made a historic and immense sacrifice 
when the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), the 
sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people, 
accepted  the  establishment  of  the  State  of  Palestine 
based on the 4 June 1967 borders, with East Jerusalem 
as its capital.
What more can be asked of us? We remain committed 
to the agreements reached with Israel in 1993. However, 
Israel must reciprocate and act forthwith to resolve all 
the final-status issues. It must cease all its settlement 
activities  and  acts  of  aggression  against  our  cities, 
villages  and  refugee  camps.  It  must  cease  its  policies 
of collective punishment, its demolition of Palestinian 
homes,  its  extrajudicial  executions  and  the  arrest  of 
our people. It must release our prisoners and detainees, 
all  thousands  of  them,  and  cease  its  aggression  and 
provocations against the holy Al-Aqsa Mosque, for all 
these policies and practices prevent the creation of an 
environment in which peace can prevail in our region.
How  can  anyone  seeking  peace  commit  such 
actions?  In  this  regard,  we  reaffirm  that  we  find  the 
current  situation  unacceptable.  We  will  never  accept 
the  humiliation  of  our  people.  We  will  never  accept 
temporary or interim solutions. Our people will never 
agree to forgo their national institutions and the other 
achievements  that  were  won  through  great  sacrifice, 
suffering and pain. We will preserve the independence 
of  Palestinian  decision-making.  We  will  act  to  fulfil 
the  aspirations  of  our  people  through  political  and 
diplomatic  means,  while  relying  on  international  law 
and the legitimacy of international resolutions via the 
United  Nations  and  all  international  forums.  We  will 
seek  to  mobilize  Arab  and  international  efforts  to 
that  end.  We  will  not  accept  the  continuation  of  the 
status quo.
The  1993  Oslo  Accords  were  intended  to  end  the 
occupation, to achieve an independent State of Palestine 
within five years. Yet, Israel renounced the agreements 
it  signed  and  persists  in  its  occupation  and  continues 
to expand its illegal settlements, thereby undermining 
the realization of the two-State solution on the basis of 
the 1967 borders. Does Israel want one State? None of 
the 12 Security Council resolutions condemning Israeli 
settlements in the occupied Palestinian territory since 
1967 has been implemented, and Israel therefore pursues 
its plans for the seizure of more Palestinian land in the 
West  Bank,  including  East  Jerusalem,  with  impunity. 
The violent actions of Israeli settlers have gone as far 
as the formation of terrorist groups that burn homes and 
kill  entire  families,  destroy  properties  and  uproot  the 
trees that are the livelihood of Palestinian families.
Israel’s  disrespect  and  contemptuous  policies 
have  led  to  attempts  to  legalize  the  settlements  and 
the  settlers’  colonization  of  our  occupied  land  since 
1967  and  even  to  the  Israeli  Prime  Minister’s  claim 
that the call for the cessation of settlements and their 
dismantlement  constitutes  ethnic  cleansing.  All  such 
claims and attempts are null and void; they are clearly 
in grave breach of international law.
So, who then is practising ethnic cleansing? In that 
regard, I am compelled to warn the General Assembly 
again  that  what  the  Israeli  Government  is  doing  in 
pursuit of its expansionist settlement plans will destroy 
whatever chance is left for the adoption of the two-State 
solution  based  on  the  1967  borders.  The  settlements 
are  illegal  in  every  respect  and  in  any  form.  We  will 
therefore continue to exert all efforts for the adoption of 
a Security Council resolution on the settlements and the 
terror  perpetrated  by  the  settlers.  To  that  end,  we  are 
currently undertaking extensive consultations with the 
Arab countries and other friendly countries. We hope 
that no one will cast a veto against this draft resolution.
The  racial  discrimination  against  the  Palestinian 
people has become a daily reality as Israel continues to 
favour the Israeli settlers on our occupied land, including 
16-29553
23/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
by granting them permits for residential construction, 
factories, economic projects and infrastructure, such as 
roads, electricity and water networks. At the same time, 
Israel is preventing the Palestinians — the owners of the 
land — from using their land and prohibiting them from 
developing their economy in the West Bank, including 
Jerusalem, the Jordan Valley and the Palestinian shores 
on the Dead Sea. It continues with its illegal blockade 
of the Gaza Strip, as well as with its illegal alteration 
of  the  identity  and  status  of  occupied  East  Jerusalem 
and its acts of aggression and provocation against our 
Christian and Muslim holy sites, especially the Al-Aqsa 
Mosque. That is playing with fire. I repeat, it is playing 
with fire. No one knows what may happen if those acts 
of aggression continue.
All of those Israeli policies, actions and measures 
are reasons for the failure of every international effort 
for the past 13 years, particularly those of the Quartet, 
in the same way that Israel has sabotaged the efforts of 
successive American Administrations over the decades. 
In that regard, I have to once again appeal to the United 
Nations to help provide international protection for the 
Palestinian people, who since 1967 have been suffering 
under  occupation  in  the  West  Bank,  including  East 
Jerusalem, and in the Gaza Strip. I am very grateful in 
that regard to the Secretary-General and the members of 
the Security Council, who convened an Arria Formula 
meeting  of  the  Council  to  explore  the  possibilities  of 
international protection for our people, and I urge that 
such  efforts  continue.  If  the  United  Nations  cannot 
ensure our protection, who will?
Today  Israel  continues  its  attempts  to  evade  the 
possibility of an international conference for peace, an 
idea proposed by France and supported by most of the 
countries of the world. A ministerial meeting, in which 
28 countries and three intergovernmental organizations 
participated, was held in Paris in June to prepare for the 
convening of such a conference. We continue to hope that 
holding such a conference can lead to the establishment 
of a mechanism and a defined time frame for ending the 
occupation, in accordance with the relevant resolutions 
of  international  legitimacy,  the  principle  of  land  for 
peace and the Arab Peace Initiative — which, among 
other things, calls for a just and agreed-on solution for 
Palestinian  refugees,  in  accordance  with  resolution 
194 (III). We hope that every country in the world will 
support  convening  such  a  peace  conference  before 
the  end  of  this  year.  Without  an  international  peace 
conference and direct negotiations between us and the 
Israelis, how can we make peace or even speak about it?
Instead  of  ensuring  that  Israel  acknowledges  the 
atrocities  it  continues  to  commit  against  our  people, 
the  Israeli  Prime  Minister  has  had  the  audacity  to 
criticize  Palestine’s  statement  at  the  Arab  League 
Summit in Nouakchott, Mauritania, because it referred 
to  the  Balfour  Declaration.  I  say  to  him  today  that 
our  recognition  in  1993  of  the  existence  of  the  State 
of  Israel,  a  recognition  that  continues  to  be  valid,  is 
not  free  of  charge.  Israel  should  reciprocate  with  its 
own  recognition  of  the  State  of  Palestine  and  end  its 
occupation  of  our  land,  so  that  the  State  of  Palestine 
and the State of Israel can coexist alongside each other, 
in peace and security, as good neighbours, each within 
secure and recognized borders.
There  is  no  conflict  between  us  and  the  Jewish 
religion  and  people.  Our  conflict  is  with  the  Israeli 
occupation  of  our  land.  We  have  full  respect  for  the 
Jewish religion, which is a monotheistic one, just as we 
respect other religions, and in that regard we condemn 
the catastrophe of the Holocaust that befell the Jewish 
people  in  Europe  during  the  Second  World  War.  It 
was  one  of  the  most  heinous  crimes  ever  perpetrated 
against humankind. A historic reconciliation between 
the Palestinian and Israeli peoples requires that Israel 
acknowledge its responsibility for the Nakba that is still 
being inflicted on our people to this very day. Such an 
acknowledgement would open a new era of coexistence 
and serve to build bridges rather than walls. I believe 
that  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  embodies  a  reasonable, 
sensible  solution.  Yet  Israel  continues  to  insist  on 
being selective, picking and choosing only parts of the 
Initiative,  such  as  insisting  on  establishing  relations 
with the Arab countries before ending its occupation of 
Palestine. That is simply a recipe for more conflict in 
the region. We will not accept it and neither will anyone 
else. The Arab Peace Initiative should be implemented 
in full, from A to Z, and Israel must understand that.
By the end of the coming year, 100 years will have 
passed  since  the  Balfour  Declaration;  70  since  the 
Nakba  of  the  Palestinian  people;  and  50  since  Israel 
occupied  the  West  Bank,  including  East  Jerusalem, 
and  the  Gaza  Strip.  Yes,  100  years  have  passed  since 
the promulgation of the infamous Balfour Declaration, 
whereby Britain gave the land of Palestine to another 
people  without  any  right,  authority  or  consent  from 
anyone.  That  paved  the  way  for  the  Nakba  and  the 
Palestinian  people’s  dispossession  and  displacement 
24/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
from their land. As if that were not enough, the British 
mandate  translated  the  Declaration  into  policies  and 
measures  that  helped  to  perpetrate  heinous  crimes 
against  a  peaceful  people  in  their  own  land,  a  people 
who had never attacked or taken part in a war against 
anyone. As we approach the 100th anniversary of that 
infamous Declaration, we would like to ask the British to 
draw the necessary lessons and shoulder their historical, 
legal, political, material and moral responsibilities for 
it, including an apology to the Palestinian people for the 
disasters, misery and injustice that it has created, and 
to  act  to  rectify  that  historic  catastrophe  and  remedy 
its consequences, including through recognition of the 
State of Palestine. That is the least Britain can do.
In  addition,  since  1948,  Israel  has  persisted  in 
its  contempt  for  international  legitimacy  by  violating 
resolution  181  (II),  known  as  the  partition  resolution, 
which  called  for  the  establishment  of  two  States  on 
the  historic  land  of  Palestine  according  to  a  specific 
partition plan. Israeli forces seized more land than was 
allotted to Israel, constituting a grave breach of Articles 
39, 41 and 42 of the Charter of the United Nations. In 
paragraph (c) of that resolution, the General Assembly 
requests that the Security Council
“determine as a threat to the peace, breach of the 
peace  or  act  of  aggression,  in  accordance  with 
Article  39  of  the  Charter,  any  attempt  to  alter  by 
force the settlement envisaged by this resolution”.
Regrettably,  however,  the  Security  Council  is  not 
discharging its responsibility to hold Israel accountable 
for  seizing 
the  Palestinian 
State  under  the  partition  resolution.  Over  half  of  the 
Palestinian territory was taken by Israel. To reiterate, 
the Security Council is not discharging its responsibility 
to  hold  Israel  accountable  for  its  seizure  of  territory 
allotted  to  the  Palestinian  State  under  the  partition 
resolution. I appeal to everyone to read resolution 181 
(II) once again.
territory  allotted 
to 
We  continue  our  efforts  to  promote  a  culture  of 
peace  among  our  people.  We  stand  firmly  against 
terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations.  We 
condemn  terrorism  regardless  of  who  perpetrates  it 
or  where  it  is  perpetrated.  Our  region  has  been  the 
principal  victim  of  terrorism,  a  scourge  that  it  has 
endured  for  many  years.  We  support  the  unity  of 
people  and  respect  for  territorial  integrity.  We  are  in 
favour of reaching political solutions for the conflicts 
in Syria, Libya, Iraq and elsewhere. We commend the 
efforts of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to strengthen 
the foundations of legitimacy in Yemen. We support the 
efforts to confront and overcome terrorism, extremism, 
sectarianism and violence. I appeal to everyone to stand 
united against terrorism. Terrorism knows no religion.
In that connection, I wish to reaffirm that there is 
no way to defeat terrorism and extremism and achieve 
security and stability in our region unless we end the 
Israeli occupation of Palestine and ensure the freedom 
and  independence  of  the  Palestinian  people.  Fighting 
terrorism and extremism begins with the ending of the 
Israeli occupation of Palestine.
We  continue  our  genuine,  dedicated  efforts  to 
achieve  Palestinian  reconciliation  with  the  formation 
of  a  national  unity  Government  in  accordance  with 
the  political  platform  of  the  Palestine  Liberation 
Organization  and  the  holding  of  presidential  and 
parliamentary  elections.  We  are  committed 
to 
rebuilding Gaza, alleviating the hardships of our people 
and lifting the illegal blockade imposed on them.
Our hand remains outstretched to those interested 
in peacebuilding. There is one outstanding question that 
we have to keep asking over and over again, namely, is 
there  any  leader  in  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  who 
truly desires to make peace and abandon the mentality 
of hegemony, expansionism and colonization? Is there 
any Israeli leader who will recognize the rights of our 
people  and  end  the  historical  injustice  inflicted  upon 
them?  It  is  Israel’s  breach  of  the  agreements  it  has 
signed  and  its  failure  to  comply  with  the  obligations 
it  has  assumed  that  have  caused  the  deadlock  and 
stalemate in which we find ourselves.
The  State  of  Palestine,  which  was  accorded  the 
status of observer State in the United Nations with the 
support of 138 countries, is a State under occupation. 
The  Executive  Committee  of  the  Palestine  Liberation 
Organization  —  the  only  legitimate  representative  of 
the  Palestinian  people  wherever  they  may  be  —  acts 
on behalf of our people and as their Government. The 
Palestine  National  Council  is  the  Parliament  of  the 
State of Palestine, as reflected in resolution 67/19.
  We  have  not  lost  hope  yet.  We  expect  the 
international community to shoulder its responsibilities. 
We call on countries that have acted against our people 
to  rectify  such  injustices.  Moreover,  we  appeal  to 
countries  that  have  not  yet  recognized  the  State  of 
Palestine to do so. Those who believe in the two-State 
solution  —  and  everyone  speaks  about  the  two-State 
16-29553
25/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
solution  —  should  recognize  both  States  and  not  just 
one of them.
I invite the General Assembly to mark this seventy-
first session by declaring 2017 as the international year 
to end the Israeli occupation of our land. In June 2017 
half  a  century  will  have  elapsed  since  the  abhorrent 
Israeli occupation began. I also appeal to members, as a 
follow-up to resolution 67/19, to adopt a draft resolution 
that  will  enable  Palestine  to  submit  and  co-sponsor 
draft  resolutions  on  subjects  other  than  the  question 
of  Palestine  and  to  support  our  efforts  to  enhance 
Palestine’s  legal  and  political  status  by  granting  it 
additional  responsibilities  to  chair  committees  and 
groups as we continue our quest for full membership in 
international organizations.
Given all this, the international community is called 
upon, now more than ever, to exert all efforts to bring 
an end to the Israeli occupation of the land of the State 
of Palestine. As members are aware, this is the longest 
and the last occupation in contemporary history. If the 
international community were to deliver on its ability 
to advance the rights of our people, ensure the exercise 
of  those  same  rights  and  end  the  oppression  and 
injustice imposed on our people for seven decades, that 
would  surely  present  a  unique  opportunity  for  peace, 
stability  and  coexistence  in  our  region  and  between 
the  Palestinian  and  Israeli  people.  It  would  create  a 
better future for the current generation and succeeding 
generations. It would be a beginning, a basis for ending 
extremism and violence in our region and the world. 
I hope, from the depths of my heart, that the Israeli 
occupation  of  our  land  will  end,  that  we  can  defeat 
terrorism, that the current conflicts will be concluded 
and  that  peace  will  prevail  in  our  region  and  around 
the  world.  Our  people  will  continue  to  open  the  door 
to peace and do all we can to grant our people freedom 
and  independence.  We  will  remain  steadfast  in  our 
land, and we will work to prepare the future of the next 
generation. It is my hope that I will not have to deliver 
this same statement again next year. It is our collective 
responsibility to ensure that 2017 is the year when the 
occupation  ends.  Will  the  Assembly  discharge  that 
responsibility? I truly hope so.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  State  of  Palestine  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of  the  State  of 
Palestine, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Ms. Erna Solberg, Prime Minister 
of Norway
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Norway.
Ms. Erna Solberg, Prime Minister of Norway, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming Her Excellency Ms. Erna 
Solberg, Prime Minister of Norway, and inviting her to 
address the Assembly.
Ms. Solberg (Norway): This year’s session of the 
General  Assembly  comes  at  a  critical  time.  Over  the 
past  few  years  we  have  witnessed  grave  violations  of 
the  very  principles  on  which  the  United  Nations  is 
based — violations that have caused widespread human 
suffering  and  insecurity.  Syria,  Yemen,  Ukraine  and 
South Sudan are some examples, but the list goes on. 
Yet  at  the  same  time,  the  world  has  moved  forward, 
countries have come together, found compromises and 
taken  joint  action,  as,  for  example,  when  we  reached 
the  Paris  Agreement  and  adopted  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development — the road map for our 
future coexistence and cooperation.
Therefore, where do we go from here? We cannot 
let  fear  guide  our  actions.  We  cannot  return  to  a 
world  of  zero-sum  games,  narrow  national  interests 
and  protectionism.  We  cannot  move  away  from  a 
rules-based  system  that  guards  against  confrontation 
and  unpredictability.  We  — 
international 
community — must rally around the multilateral system 
with  renewed  strength.  Let  me  assure  the  Assembly 
that  Norway  will  work  hard  to  promote  respect  for 
international law and to find common solutions.
the 
My  own  continent,  Europe,  has  enjoyed  a  unique 
era of peace, democracy and trade. Now, however, we 
are facing a complex security situation. Unfortunately, 
some States have chosen not to abide by international 
law  and  are  simply  pursuing  national  interests  at  the 
expense  of  others.  Instability  in  the  Middle  East  and 
26/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
North  Africa  is  causing  widespread  human  suffering 
and  leading  to  violent  extremism  in  Europe.  The 
response should not be to isolate ourselves; instead, we 
must cooperate and find solutions. 
The humanitarian situation in Syria simply cannot 
be  tolerated.  Global  and  regional  Powers  must  take 
action  to  secure  an  enduring  ceasefire  and  ensure 
humanitarian  access  —  right  now.  The  world  expects 
the  Security  Council  and  the  International  Syria 
Support Group to deliver. And it is not just Syria that 
we  need  to  focus  on.  Conflict  and  suffering  continue 
elsewhere, and more needs to be done to find common 
solutions to common challenges. In that context, let me 
send a message to President Abbas and Prime Minister 
Netanyahu, who are speaking before and after me today. 
I  strongly  urge  the  parties  to  address  the  imminent 
threats  to  the  two-State  solution  by  implementing  the 
recommendations in the Quartet report.
We  must  intensify  our  efforts  to  tackle  the 
humanitarian consequences of today’s crises. Norway 
will continue to provide record levels of humanitarian 
assistance — to Syria, to South Sudan and elsewhere. 
Together  we  need  to  intensify  our  efforts  to  promote 
peace  and  stability  in  a  wide  range  of  fragile  and 
conflict-affected  States.  We  need  to  strengthen  the 
capacity  of  the  United  Nations  to  help  countries 
emerging from conflict. We have a clear responsibility 
to  fight  terrorism  and  step  up  our  efforts  to  prevent 
violent extremism. In order to do so, we need to work 
closely with civil society, women, young people, faith 
leaders and local communities.
We  need  to  translate  the  women  and  peace  and 
security agenda into more effective action on the ground. 
We  need  to  ensure  that  peace  operations  deliver  on 
their mandates to protect civilians. Sexual exploitation 
and  abuse  must  stop.  We  need  zero  tolerance  and 
resolute action by the United Nations. United Nations 
peacekeepers, development workers and humanitarian 
workers from a large number of countries are making 
a  real  difference  in  numerous  countries,  including 
Mali and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. They 
must  be  equipped  with  the  tools  and  resources  they 
need. I would like to assure the Assembly that Norway 
will continue to provide substantial humanitarian and 
development  assistance  and  support  the  reform  of 
United Nations peace operations. 
address  the  underlying  causes.  Thankfully,  in  some 
places, our efforts are producing tangible results. After 
more than five decades of conflict, peace is now within 
reach in Colombia. I am proud that, together with Cuba, 
Norway facilitated the peace process. It will be a great 
and  historic  step  forward  for  the  region,  and  Norway 
will  continue  to  provide  diplomatic  and  practical 
support to the Colombian peace process in its crucial 
implementation phase.
The  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  are 
ground-breaking. They provide us with a road map for 
the future we want, and we have agreed to leave no one 
behind.  That  means  that  we  must  address  inequality 
and  social  injustice  and  safeguard  the  rule  of  law.  It 
also  means  that  we  must  empower  women  and  men 
alike.  We  must  strengthen  the  human  rights  pillar  of 
the  United  Nations,  both  financially  and  politically. 
That  should  be  seen  as  an  important  investment  in 
the future. I would like to highlight the role played by 
those  who  promote  the  rights  of  others  —  of  women, 
minorities and members of marginalized communities. 
Human rights defenders are an important corrective in 
any society, and only weak leaders fear correction.
The SDGs are all about building inclusive societies. 
Inclusive societies perform better. The right to education 
and  health  is  crucial  in  that  regard.  Today  there  are 
263 million children and young people who are not in 
school, and the number is growing. Last year, together 
with  the  Presidents  of  Chile,  Indonesia  and  Malawi 
and  the  Director-General  of  UNESCO,  I  initiated  the 
establishment  of  the  International  Commission  on 
Financing Global Education Opportunity. On Sunday, 
the  Commission  submitted  a  report  entitled  “The 
Learning  Generation”  with  recommendations  to  the 
Secretary-General.  The  Commission  makes  a  strong 
case for why it is so vital to ensure that the world invests 
in  education  as  a  key  driver  of  economic  growth.  I 
could not agree more. We must avoid a global learning 
crisis, and the consequences of inaction will be severe. 
Together, we must invest more to ensure that no one is 
left behind. Each and every one of us should have the 
same learning opportunities, and the education of girls 
is  especially  important.  When  girls  go  to  school  and 
get an education, it not only represents the exercise of 
a  fundamental  right,  it  is  also  good  for  the  economy. 
Global education will continue to be a top priority of 
Norway’s development policy.
However,  we  cannot  prevent  or  resolve  conflicts 
by  addressing  the  consequences  alone.  We  must  also 
Mr.  Zamora  Rivas  (El  Salvador),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
16-29553
27/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
Another  priority  for  Norway  is  strengthening 
epidemic  preparedness  and  global  health  security  by 
developing new vaccines that can prevent new outbreaks. 
That  important  goal  requires  effective  partnerships 
across  national  borders  and  across  every  sector  of 
society,  along  with  the  mobilization  of  both  domestic 
and private-sector resources. Antibiotic medicines have 
saved millions of lives, but antimicrobial resistance is 
making them increasingly ineffective. If we do not act, 
we  could  reach  a  stage  where  common  infections  are 
once  again  deadly.  Our  grandchildren  could  die  from 
illnesses  that  our  grandparents  survived.  New  global 
health  challenges 
international 
cooperation.  I  am  therefore  pleased  that  we  managed 
to put the issue high on the agenda this week. We know 
what needs to be done, and now it is time do the work 
back home.
increased 
require 
The  Climate  Conference  in  Paris  late  last  year 
marked a turning point in the fight to save our planet. 
We  now  need  effective  and  concerted  action  in  order 
to  bring  down  emissions  and  meet  the  ambitious 
objectives that we have set ourselves. Our ambition is 
to do all of that while still providing decent work and 
economic growth for all. That will require investment 
in innovation, and we have no time to lose.
In  the  decades  ahead,  the  oceans  will  play  a 
bigger role in the global economy. Today, 17 per cent 
of all of the animal protein consumed globally comes 
from  the  sea.  In  order  to  meet  growing  demands,  the 
share of our food that we obtain from the oceans will 
have  to  increase  substantially.  Since  growth  from 
capture fisheries is limited, we need more sustainable 
aquaculture. As world trade continues to grow, the need 
for marine transport will increase. The oceans are also 
already a major source of energy. That resource must be 
developed further, so as to meet the growing demand 
for  clean  and  renewable  energy.  In  short,  the  oceans 
hold  great  promise  for  the  future.  We  have  seen  only 
the  very  beginning  of  the  blue  economy.  The  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  strikes 
a  delicate  balance  between  competing  interests  and 
needs,  enabling  us  to  realize  the  potential  of  marine 
resources,  protect  marine  biodiversity  and  prevent 
conflicts in the maritime domain.
The adoption of the SDGs and the Paris Agreement 
shows  what  can  be  achieved  when  countries  come 
together  to  find  compromises  and  take  action.  In 
our  globalized  and  interdependent  world,  effective 
international  cooperation  is  essential  if  we  are  to 
address  poverty,  conflicts,  climate  change,  migration 
and  terrorism.  No  Government  can  single-handedly 
deliver  effective  solutions  to  the  challenges  we  face. 
This  morning,  Norway, 
together  with  Colombia, 
Ethiopia,  Ghana,  Indonesia,  Jordan  and  Mexico, 
presented five recommendations intended for the new 
Secretary-General, aimed at promoting an independent 
and credible United Nations that can play a uniting and 
leading role. The United Nations has a unique place in the 
multilateral world order. It is our shared responsibility 
to  defend  a  world  order  in  which  solutions  are  found 
through  negotiation  and  respect  for  international  law. 
The  validity  of  the  United  Nations  mandate  remains 
strong,  but  the  Organization  will  also  have  to  reform 
itself if it is to address the challenges ahead.
I  would  like  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  for  his  hard  work  and  success  in  a  range  of 
areas,  including  the  adoption  of  the  SDGs.  The  next 
Secretary-General must continue to defend and promote 
the  multilateral  world  order  and  lead  the  process  of 
change  that  will  be  needed  in  order  to  ensure  global 
stability  and  sustainable  development  for  all.  Norway 
will support him or her in that endeavour.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  Norway  for  the  statement  she  has 
just made.
Ms. Erna Solberg, Prime Minister of Norway, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime 
Minister of the State of Israel
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the State of Israel.
Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime Minister of the State 
of Israel, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Netanyahu (Israel): What I am about to say is 
going  to  shock  everyone  —  Israel  has  a  bright  future 
at  the  United  Nations.  I  know  that  hearing  that  from 
me must surely come as a surprise, because year after 
year  I  have  stood  at  this  very  rostrum  and  slammed 
the United Nations for its obsessive bias against Israel. 
28/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
And  the  United  Nations  has  deserved  every  scathing 
word  —  for  instance,  for  the  disgrace  of  the  General 
Assembly  last  year,  which  adopted  20  resolutions 
against the democratic State of Israel and a grand total 
of  three  resolutions  against  all  the  other  countries  on 
the planet. Israel, 20; the rest of the world, three.
And what about the joke called the United Nations 
Human  Rights  Council,  which  each  year  condemns 
Israel more than all the countries of the world combined? 
As  women  are  being  systematically  raped,  murdered 
and  sold  into  slavery  across  the  world,  which  is  the 
only  country  that  the  United  Nations  Commission  on 
the Status of Women chose to condemn this year? Yes, 
Israel. Israel, where women fly fighter jets, lead major 
corporations, head universities, preside — twice — over 
the Supreme Court, and have served as Speaker of the 
Knesset and Prime Minister. And that circus continues 
at  UNESCO,  the  United  Nations  body  charged  with 
preserving  world  heritage.  This  is  hard  to  believe, 
but  UNESCO  just  denied  the  4,000-year  connection 
between  the  Jewish  people  and  its  holiest  site,  the 
Temple  Mount.  That  is  just  as  absurd  as  denying  the 
connection between the Great Wall of China and China.
The United Nations, which began as a moral force, 
has become a moral farce. Therefore, when it comes to 
Israel at the United Nations, one might well think that 
nothing will ever change. Well, think again. Everything 
will change, and a lot sooner than one might think. The 
change  will  happen  in  this  Hall,  because  back  home 
Governments  are  rapidly  changing  their  attitudes 
towards Israel. Sooner or later, that is going to change 
the way everyone votes on Israel at the United Nations.
More  and  more  nations  in  Asia,  in  Africa  and  in 
Latin America see Israel as a potent partner in fighting 
the terrorism of today and in developing the technology 
of  tomorrow.  Today,  Israel  has  diplomatic  relations 
with  over  160  countries,  nearly  double  the  number 
from  when  I  served  here  as  Israel’s  Ambassador 
some  30  years  ago.  Those  ties  are  getting  broader 
and  deeper  every  day.  World  leaders  increasingly 
appreciate  that  Israel  is  a  powerful  country  with  one 
of the best intelligence services on Earth. Because of 
our  unmatched  experience  and  proven  capabilities  in 
fighting  terrorism,  many  Governments  will  seek  our 
help in keeping their countries safe.
Many  also  seek  to  benefit  from  Israel’s  ingenuity 
in agriculture, in health, in water, in cybersecurity and 
in  the  fusion  of  big  data,  connectivity  and  artificial 
intelligence  —  that  fusion  that  is  changing  our  world 
in  every  way.  Israel  leads  the  world  in  recycling 
wastewater.  We  recycle  about  90  per  cent  of  our 
wastewater.  How  remarkable  is  that?  Given  that  the 
next country on the list recycles only about 20 per cent 
of its wastewater, Israel is a global water Power. If we 
have a thirsty world, and we do, there is no better ally 
than Israel.
How  about  cybersecurity?  That  is  an  issue  that 
affects everyone. Israel accounts for one tenth of 1 per 
cent of the world’s population, yet last year we attracted 
some  20  per  cent  of  the  global  private  investment  in 
cybersecurity.  If  we  digest  that  number,  we  see  that 
Israel  is  punching  a  whopping  200  times  above  its 
weight. Therefore, Israel is also a global cybersecurity 
Power.  If  hackers  are  targeting  banks,  planes,  power 
grids  and  just  about  everything  else,  Israel  can  offer 
indispensable  help.  Governments  are  changing  their 
attitudes towards Israel because they know that Israel 
can  help  them  protect,  feed  and  improve  the  lives  of 
their people.
This summer, I had an unbelievable opportunity to 
see that change vividly during an unforgettable visit to 
four African countries. That was the first visit to Africa 
by an Israeli Prime Minister in decades. Later today, I 
will be meeting with leaders from 17 African countries. 
We will discuss how Israeli technology can help them 
in their efforts to transform their countries. In Africa, 
things are changing. In China, India, Russia and Japan, 
attitudes  towards  Israel  have  changed  as  well.  Those 
powerful nations know that, despite Israel’s small size, 
it  can  make  a  big  difference  in  many  areas  that  are 
important to them.
But now I am going to surprise everyone even more. 
The biggest changes in attitudes towards Israel is taking 
place  elsewhere.  It  is  taking  place  in  the  Arab  world. 
Our peace treaties with Egypt and Jordan continue to 
be anchors of stability in the volatile Middle East. For 
the first time in my lifetime, many other States in the 
region  recognize  that  Israel  is  not  their  enemy.  They 
recognize that Israel is their ally. Our common enemies 
are Iran and the Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham. Our 
common goals are security, prosperity and peace.
I  believe  that,  in  the  years  ahead,  we  will  work 
together to achieve those goals, work together openly. 
Therefore, Israel’s diplomatic relations are undergoing 
nothing  less  than  a  revolution.  But  in  that  revolution 
we never forget that our cherished alliance, our deepest 
16-29553
29/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
friendship,  is  with  the  United  States  of  America,  the 
powerful and the most generous nation on Earth. Our 
unbreakable  bond  with  the  United  States  of  America 
transcends  parties  and  politics.  It  reflects,  above  all 
else,  the  overwhelming  support  for  Israel  among  the 
American people, support which is at record highs and 
for which we are deeply grateful.
vital national interests? We will not accept any attempt 
by  the  United  Nations  to  dictate  terms  to  Israel.  The 
road  to  peace  runs  through  Jerusalem  and  Ramallah, 
not through New York. But regardless of what happens 
in the months ahead, I have total confidence that, in the 
years ahead, the revolution in Israel’s standing among 
the nations will finally penetrate this Hall of nations. 
The  United  Nations  denounces  Israel;  the  United 
States  supports  Israel.  And  a  central  pillar  of  that 
defence has been America’s consistent support for Israel 
at the United Nations. I appreciate President Obama’s 
commitment to that long-standing United States policy. 
In  fact,  the  only  time  that  the  United  States  cast  a 
Security  Council  veto  during  the  Obama  presidency 
was against an anti-Israel draft resolution in 2011 (see 
S/PV.6484).  As  President  Obama  rightly  declared  at 
this rostrum, peace will not come from statements and 
resolutions at the United Nations. I believe the day is 
not  far  off  when  Israel  will  be  able  to  rely  on  many 
countries to stand with us at the United Nations. Slowly 
but surely, the days when United Nations Ambassadors 
reflexively condemn Israel are coming to an end.
Today’s  automatic  majority  against  Israel  at  the 
United  Nations  reminds  me  of  the  incredible  story 
of  Hiroo  Onada,  who  was  a  Japanese  soldier  sent  to 
the  Philippines  in  1944.  He  lived  in  the  jungle.  He 
scavenged for food. He evaded capture. Eventually he 
surrendered, but that did not happen until 1974, some 
30  years  after  the  end  of  the  Second  World  War.  For 
decades,  Hiroo  refused  to  believe  the  war  was  over. 
As  Hiroo  was  hiding  in  the  jungle,  Japanese  tourists 
were  swimming  in  pools  in  American  luxury  hotels 
in  nearby  Manila.  Finally,  mercifully,  Hiroo’s  former 
commanding officer was sent to persuade him to come 
out of hiding. Only then did Hiroo lay down his arms.
I  have  one  message  for  those  present  here  today, 
that is, that they too should lay down their arms. The 
war against Israel at the United Nations is over. Perhaps 
some  of  those  present  do  not  know  it  yet,  but  I  am 
confident that one day in the not too distant future they 
will also get the message from their leaders informing 
them that the war against Israel at the United Nations 
has ended. Yes, I know, there might be a storm before 
the calm. I know there is talk about ganging up on Israel 
at the United Nations later this year.
Given  the  United  Nations  history  of  hostility 
towards Israel, does anyone really believe that Israel will 
let the United Nations determine our security and our 
I have so much confidence, in fact, that I predict that 
a decade from now an Israeli Prime Minister will stand 
right  here  where  I  am  standing  and  actually  applaud 
the United Nations. But I want to ask: why do we have 
to wait a decade? Why keep vilifying Israel? Perhaps 
because some do not appreciate that the obsessive bias 
against  Israel  is  not  just  a  problem  for  my  country,  it 
is a problem for the other countries too. If the United 
Nations  spends  so  much  time  condemning  the  only 
liberal  democracy  in  the  Middle  East,  it  has  far  less 
time  to  address  war,  disease,  poverty,  climate  change 
and  all  of  the  other  serious  problems  that  plague  the 
planet.
Are  the  half-million  slaughtered  Syrians  helped 
by Member States’ condemnation of Israel? The same 
Israel  that  has  treated  thousands  of  injured  Syrians 
in our hospitals, including a field hospital that I built 
right  along  the  Golan  Heights  border  with  Syria.  Are 
the gays hanging from cranes in Iran helped by acts to 
denigrate  Israel?  That  same  Israel  where  gays  march 
proudly  in  our  streets  and  serve  in  our  Parliament, 
including, I am proud to say, in my own Likud party. 
The starving children in North Korea’s brutal tyranny, 
are they helped by the demonization of Israel? Israel, 
whose  agricultural  know-how  is  feeding  the  hungry 
throughout the developing world? The sooner the United 
Nations  obsession  with  Israel  ends,  the  better  —  the 
better  for  Israel,  the  better  for  other  countries,  the 
better for the United Nations itself.
If United Nations habits die hard, Palestinian habits 
die  even  harder.  President  Abbas  just  attacked,  from 
this rostrum, the Balfour Declaration. He is preparing 
a lawsuit against Britain for that declaration from 1917. 
That is almost 100 years ago — talk about being stuck 
in the past. The Palestinians may just as well sue Iran 
for  the  Cyrus  Declaration,  which  enabled  the  Jews  to 
rebuild our Temple in Jerusalem 2,500 years ago. Come 
to  think  of  it,  why  not  a  Palestinian  class  action  suit 
against Abraham for buying that plot of land in Hebron 
where the fathers and mothers of the Jewish people were 
buried 4,000 years ago? It is as absurd as that. To sue 
30/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
the British Government for the Balfour Declaration? Is 
he kidding? And that is taken seriously here? 
President  Abbas  attacked  the  Balfour  Declaration 
because it recognized the right of the Jewish people to 
a national home in the land of Israel. When the United 
Nations supported the establishment of a Jewish State in 
1947, it recognized our historical and our moral rights 
to our homeland. Yet today, nearly 70 years later, the 
Palestinians still refuse to recognize those rights — not 
our right to a homeland, not our right to a State, not our 
right to anything. And that remains the true core of the 
conflict: the persistent Palestinian refusal to recognize 
the Jewish State in any boundary. One can see that the 
conflict is not about the settlements. It never was.
The conflict raged for decades before there was a 
single settlement, when Judea, Samaria and Gaza were 
all  in  Arab  hands.  The  West  Bank  and  Gaza  were  in 
Arab hands, and they attacked us again and again and 
again.  And  when  we  uprooted  all  21  settlements  in 
Gaza and withdrew from every last inch of Gaza, we 
did  not  get  peace  from  Gaza  —  we  got  thousands  of 
rockets fired at us from Gaza.
The conflict rages because for the Palestinians the 
real settlements they are after are Haifa, Jaffa and Tel 
Aviv. Keep in mind, the issue of settlements is a real 
one,  and  it  can  and  must  be  resolved  in  final-status 
negotiations. But this conflict has never been about the 
settlements, nor about establishing a Palestinian State. 
It has always been about the existence of a Jewish State, 
a Jewish State within any boundaries. Israel is ready, as 
am I, to negotiate all final-status issues. However, one 
thing I will never negotiate is our right to our State, the 
one and only Jewish State. Change may be coming sooner 
than I thought. 
Had the Palestinians said yes to a Jewish State in 1947, 
there would have been no war, no refugees and no conflict. 
When the Palestinians finally say yes to a Jewish State, we 
will be able to end our conflict once and for all. 
The  real  tragedy  is  that  the  Palestinians  are  not  only 
trapped in the past, but their leaders are poisoning the future. 
By  way  of  illustration,  I  want  the Assembly  to  imagine  a 
day in the life of a 13-year-old Palestinian boy named Ali. 
Ali wakes up before school and goes to soccer practice with 
a team named after Dalal Mughrabi, a Palestinian terrorist 
responsible  for  the  murder  of  a  busload  of  37  Israelis. At 
school, Ali  attends  an  event  sponsored  by  the  Palestinian 
Ministry of Education honouring Baha Alyan, who last year 
murdered three Israeli civilians.
On  his  walk  home, Ali  looks  up  at  a  towering  statue 
erected just a few weeks ago by the Palestinian authorities 
to honour Abu Sukar, who detonated a bomb in the centre 
of  Jerusalem,  killing  15  Israelis. When Ali  gets  home,  he 
turns on the television and sees an interview with a senior 
Palestinian official, Jibril Rajoub, who says that, if he had 
a nuclear bomb, he would have detonated it over Israel that 
very morning. 
Ali then turns on the radio, and he hears President Abbas’ 
adviser Sultan Abu al-Einein urging Palestinians to “slit the 
throats of Israelis wherever you find them”. Ali checks his 
Facebook,  and  he  sees  a  recent  post  by  President Abbas’ 
Fatah  party,  calling  the  massacre  of  11  Israeli  athletes  at 
the Munich Olympics in 1972 a “heroic act”. On YouTube, 
Ali watches a clip of President Abbas himself saying “we 
welcome every drop of blood spilled in Jerusalem”. 
Over  dinner, Ali  asks  his  mother  what  would  happen 
if  he  killed  a  Jew  and  went  to  an  Israeli  prison.  She  tells 
him that he would be paid thousands of dollars each month 
by the Palestinian authorities. In fact, she tells him that the 
more Jews he killed, the more money he would get. When 
he gets out of prison, Ali would be guaranteed a job with the 
Palestinian authorities.
All of that is not just a story, it is real. It happens every 
day, all the time. Sadly, Ali represents hundreds of thousands 
of Palestinian children who are indoctrinated with hate during 
every moment of every hour. That is child abuse. Imagine if 
it were our children undergoing such brainwashing. Imagine 
what it takes for a young boy or girl to break free of such a 
culture of hate. Some do, but far too many do not. 
How can any of us expect young Palestinians to support 
peace when their leaders poison their minds against peace? 
In Israel we do not do that; we educate our children for peace. 
In fact, my Government recently launched a pilot programme 
to make the study of Arabic mandatory for Jewish children, 
so that we can better understand each other, and so that we 
can live together side by side, in peace. Of course, like all 
societies, Israel has fringe elements. But it is our response to 
those fringe elements that makes all the difference. 
Let us consider the tragic case of Ahmed Dawabsha. I 
shall never forget visiting Ahmed in the hospital, just hours 
after he was attacked. This little boy — a baby — was badly 
burned. Ahmed was the victim of a horrible terrorist attack 
perpetrated by Jews. He lay bandaged and unconscious as 
Israeli  doctors  worked  around  the  clock  to  save  him.  No 
words  could  bring  comfort  to  this  boy  or  to  his  family. 
Nevertheless,  as  I  stood  by  his  bedside,  I  told  his  uncle: 
“This is not our people. This is not our way”. I then ordered 
16-29553
31/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
extraordinary  measures  to  bring  Ahmed’s  assailants  to 
justice, and today the Jewish citizens of Israel accused of 
attacking the Dawabsha family are in jail awaiting trial. 
For  some,  that  story  shows  that  both  sides  have  their 
extremists and that both sides are equally responsible for our 
seemingly  endless  conflict.  However,  what Ahmed’s  story 
actually proves is the very opposite. It illustrates the profound 
difference between our two societies. While Israeli leaders 
condemn terrorists — Arabs and Jews alike — Palestinian 
leaders celebrate terrorists. While Israel jails the handful of 
Jewish terrorists among us, the Palestinians pay thousands 
of terrorists among them. 
I  therefore  call  upon  President Abbas  to  tell  him  that 
he has a choice to make. He can continue to stoke hatred, 
as he did today, or he can finally confront hatred and work 
with me to establish peace between our two peoples. I know 
that many of you have given up on peace, but I want it to be 
known that I have not given up on peace. 
I remain committed to a vision of peace based on two 
States, for two peoples. I believe, more than ever before, that 
changes taking place in the Arab world today offer a unique 
opportunity  to  advance  that  peace.  In  that  connection, 
I  commend  President  Al  Sisi  of  Egypt  for  his  efforts  to 
advance peace and stability in our region. 
Israel welcomes the spirit of the Arab Peace Initiative 
and  welcomes  a  dialogue  with  Arab  States  to  advance  a 
broader peace. I believe that, in order for that broader peace 
to be fully achieved, the Palestinians have to be part of it. I 
am ready to begin negotiations to achieve that today without 
any further delay. 
Although  President  Abbas  spoke  here  an  hour  ago, 
would it not be better if, instead of speaking past each other, 
we were speaking to one another? I invite President Abbas 
to speak to the Israeli people at the Knesset in Jerusalem, 
instead  of  railing  against  Israel  at  the  United  Nations  in 
New York. I would gladly come to speak to the Palestinian 
Parliament in Ramallah. 
While Israel seeks peace with all our neighbours, 
we  also  know  that  peace  has  no  greater  enemy  than 
the  forces  of  militant  Islam.  The  bloody  trail  of  such 
fanaticism runs through all the continents represented 
here.  It  runs  through  Paris  and  Nice,  Brussels  and 
Baghdad, Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, Minnesota and New 
York.  From  Sydney  to  San  Bernadino,  so  many  have 
suffered its savagery: Christians and Jews, women and 
gays, Yazidis and Kurds and many others. 
Yet  the  heaviest  price  of  all  has  been  paid 
by 
innocent  Muslims  —  hundreds  of 
thousands 
mercilessly slaughtered, millions turned into desperate 
refugees,  tens  of  millions  brutally  subjugated.  The 
defeat of militant Islam will therefore be a victory for 
all  humankind.  It  will  especially  be  a  victory  for  the 
many Muslims who seek a life without fear — a life of 
peace, a life of hope. 
To  defeat  the  forces  of  militant  Islam,  we  must 
fight them relentlessly. We must fight them in the real 
world.  We  must  fight  them  in  the  virtual  world.  We 
must  dismantle  their  networks,  disrupt  their  funding 
channels  and  discredit  their  ideology.  We  can  defeat 
them, and we will defeat them. Medievalism is no match 
for modernity. Hope is stronger than hate. Freedom is 
mightier than fear. We can do it. 
Israel  fights  the  fateful  battle  against  the  forces 
of militant Islam every day. We keep our borders safe 
from  the  Islamic  State.  We  prevent  the  smuggling  of 
game-changing weapons to Hizbullah in Lebanon. We 
foil  Palestinian  terror  attacks  in  the  West  Bank.  We 
deter missile attacks from Hamas-controlled Gaza. 
That  is  the  same  Hamas  terror  organization  that 
cruelly  —  unbelievably  cruelly  —  refuses  to  return 
three of our citizens and the bodies of our fallen soldiers, 
Oron Shaul and Hadar Goldin. Hadar Goldin’s parents, 
Leah and Simcha Goldin, are here with us today. They 
have one request: to be able to bury their beloved son in 
Israel. All they ask for is one simple thing: to be able to 
visit the grave of their fallen son, Hadar, in Israel, but 
Hamas  refuses.  Hamas  could  not  care  less.  I  implore 
everyone to stand with Hadar’s parents, with us, with 
all that is decent in our world against the inhumanity 
of  Hamas,  which  represents  all  that  is  indecent  and 
barbaric. Hamas breaks every humanitarian rule in the 
book. Throw the book at them. 
The  greatest  threat  to  my  country,  to  our  region 
and  ultimately  to  our  world  remains  the  militant 
Islamic  regime  of  Iran.  Iran  openly  seeks  Israel’s 
annihilation.  It  threatens  countries  across  the  Middle 
East. It sponsors terror worldwide. This year, Iran has 
fired  ballistic  missiles  in  direct  defiance  of  Security 
Council  resolution  2231  (2015).  It  has  expanded  its 
activities in Iraq, Syria and in Yemen. Iran, the world’s 
foremost  sponsor  of  terrorism,  continues  to  build  its 
global terror network. That terror network now spans 
five continents. My point is as follows: the threat that 
Iran poses to all of us is not behind us; it is in front of 
32/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
us. In the coming years, there must be a sustained and 
united effort to push back against Iran’s aggression and 
terror.  With  the  nuclear  constraints  on  Iran  one  year 
closer to being removed, let me be clear: Israel will not 
allow  the  terrorist  regime  in  Iran  to  develop  nuclear 
weapons — not now, not in a decade, not ever.
I stand before the Assembly at a time when Israel’s 
former President Shimon Peres is fighting for his life. 
Shimon  is  one  of  Israel’s  founding  fathers,  one  of  its 
boldest statesman and one of its most respected leaders. 
I know that the Assembly will join me and the people of 
Israel in wishing him a speedy recovery. I have always 
admired Shimon’s boundless optimism. Like him, I am 
filled with hope. 
I am filled with hope because Israel is capable of 
defending itself by itself against any threat. I am filled 
with hope because the valour of our fighting men and 
women is second to none. I am filled with hope because 
I  know  that  the  forces  of  civilization  will  ultimately 
triumph over the forces of terror. I am filled with hope 
because in the age of innovation, Israel, the innovation 
nation,  is  thriving  like  never  before.  I  am  filled  with 
hope because Israel works tirelessly to advance equality 
and  opportunity  for  all  its  citizens:  Jews,  Muslims, 
Christians,  Druze,  everyone.  I  am  filled  with  hope 
because  despite  all  the  doubters,  I  believe  that  in  the 
years  ahead  Israel  will  forge  a  lasting  peace  with  all 
our neighbours.
I  am  hopeful  about  what  Israel  can  accomplish 
because I have seen what Israel has accomplished. In 
1948, the year of Israel’s independence, our population 
was  800,000.  Our  main  export  was  oranges.  People 
said  that  we  were  too  small,  too  weak,  too  isolated 
and  too  demographically  outnumbered  to  survive,  let 
alone thrive. The sceptics were wrong about Israel then, 
and  the  sceptics  are  wrong  about  Israel  now.  Israel’s 
population has grown tenfold. Our economy has grown 
fortyfold.  Today,  our  biggest  export  is  technology. 
Israeli  technology  powers  the  world’s  computers,  cell 
phones, cars and so much more.
The  future  belongs  to  those  who  innovate,  and 
that is why the future belongs to countries like Israel. 
Israel wants to form partnerships in seizing that future, 
and so I call on all those present to embrace Israel, to 
cooperate and dream with Israel. Dream of the future 
that we can build together — a future of breathtaking 
progress, a future of security, prosperity and peace, a 
future of hope for all humankind, a future where even at 
the United Nations, even in this Hall, Israel will finally, 
inevitably, take its rightful place among the nations. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of the State of Israel for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Serge Telle, Head of 
Government of the Principality of Monaco
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of 
Government of the Principality of Monaco.
Mr.  Serge  Telle,  Head  of  Government  of  the 
Principality  of  Monaco,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Serge 
Telle,  Head  of  Government  of  the  Principality  of 
Monaco, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Telle  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  As  we 
have  been  hearing  since  the  beginning  of  the  week, 
we  are  here  as  representatives  of  a  world  in  crisis,  a 
war-torn world, divided by inequality, shocked by ever-
increasing massive population displacements, afflicted 
by hunger and disease, and torn apart and grief-stricken 
by violence. We are also the representatives of a world 
threatened  by  global  warming,  made  vulnerable  by 
attacks on biodiversity, and concerned at new dangers 
such  as  ocean  acidification  and  the  melting  of  the 
permafrost.
We are doubly responsible for the situation of the 
world.  We  are  responsible  as  human  beings,  because 
the  tragedy  has  but  one  perpetrator  —  humans  and 
their  insatiable  hunger  for  power.  From  the  depletion 
of  farmland  to  the  flooding  of  land  swallowed  up  by 
rising water levels and cities flattened by bombs, it is 
always  the  same  quest  for  power  that  is  the  cause  of 
global violence, which is why we are all responsible.
But we are also here as leaders of nations who are 
responsible for the world’s future. It is up to us and the 
General  Assembly  to  find  responses  to  the  suffering, 
injustice and other concerns. For 71 years, the United 
Nations has shown that it is capable of taking up those 
problems and offering the world sustainable solutions 
16-29553
33/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
based on peace and cooperation. Over the past 10 years, 
under  the  stewardship  of  the  Secretary-General,  to 
whom I pay tribute, the United Nations has been at the 
forefront of all of the fights. Thanks to the Secretary-
General,  significant  progress  has  been  made  on 
sustainable development with the adoption one year ago 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and the 
adoption in December last year of a major agreement on 
climate change, the Paris Agreement.
Those  accomplishments  should  inspire  us  today 
and  strengthen  our  determination.  In  the  face  of  the 
contradictions  that  we  face  in  the  world,  the  United 
Nations, I would note, is the only forum where coherent 
global  action  is  possible.  It  is  the  only  place  where 
conflicting  interests  can  have  a  peaceful  encounter 
in  a  spirit  of  progress.  It  is  the  only  place  where 
responsibility  for  humankind  can  be  upheld  over 
the  ambition  of  individuals.  Here,  and  nowhere  else, 
humankind  has  a  meeting  with  history,  with  destiny 
and with the judgment that our children will pronounce 
on its actions.
The Principality of Monaco, under the impetus of its 
sovereign Prince, Prince Albert II, is fully committed 
to multilateralism as the only way of tackling the topics 
on our agenda. I would like to mention three such issues 
that encompass most of the world’s challenges.
The  first  is  of  course  the  issue  of  refugees  and 
migrants,  a  topic  that  took  up  a  large  part  of  the 
beginning  of  the  work  of  the  current  session  of 
the  General  Assembly.  All  of  us  here  are  familiar 
with  the  tragedy  that  has  afflicted  so  many  civilian 
populations, primarily in Africa and the Middle East, 
and  we  know  all  too  well  the  situation  of  the  Syrian 
population, the 300,000 victims of the conflict and the 
tragedy  of  the  survivors,  caught  in  the  middle  of  the 
violence  committed  by  the  State  and  the  atrocities  of 
the terrorists. Every month, every week, every day, the 
Mediterranean  becomes  the  funeral  shroud  of  dozens 
of women, children and men ready to risk everything to 
escape their fate, but for whom we can barely provide 
the little that they ask for — safety, subsistence and the 
hope of a better future.
That Mediterranean Sea, to which Monaco attaches 
great  importance,  the  Sea  that  is  both  a  link  and  a 
border  to  so  many  worlds,  is  once  again  at  the  heart 
of one of the main challenges of this new century. The 
Mediterranean  today  should  help  us  understand  that 
the  tragedies  on  its  shores  are  not  those  of  different 
clashing worlds but rather the shores of the same world, 
ours. Regardless of our material situation or where we 
live, we cannot escape Earth’s and humankind’s woes. 
Whether we are dealing with wars or rising water levels, 
famines, storms or fanaticism, our interdependence is, 
from here on out, total. To quote John Donne, “Send not 
to know for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for thee.”
That  is  the  purpose  of  the  United  Nations  and 
its  Charter  —  to  proclaim  our  common  humanity, 
whatever  difficulties  may  arise.  In  that  regard,  the 
New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and  Migrants 
(resolution  71/1),  which  has 
just  been  adopted, 
fortunately  recalls  the  principles  according  to  which 
we must act, as well as the moral and legal obligations 
that  we  must  all  comply  with.  In  that  connection,  we 
must  give  special  consideration  to  unaccompanied 
minors  and  children  separated  from  their  families. 
Furthermore, many people live in damaged ecosystems 
that  threaten  their  very  existence.  According  to  the 
most  recent  projections  of  the  United  Nations,  there 
may  be  as  many  as  250  million  climate  refugees  by 
2050.  Therefore,  environmental  degradation  could 
tomorrow  become  the  primary  cause  of  migration. 
Hence,  the  importance  of  protecting  our  environment 
and  implementing  sustainable  development  for  all. 
That  represents  a  major  commitment  for  Monaco  and 
our Sovereign Prince Albert II, who for more than 20 
years  has  been  personally  committed  to  that  issue, 
both  in  all  international  forums  where  those  subjects 
were addressed and in the field, working closely with 
affected populations.
Reconciling the imperatives of human development 
and those of the conservation of the Earth so as to make 
it possible for a population of 8 or 9 billion people in a 
few years to live together will be the major challenge 
of our century. In order to achieve that, we must first 
protect the climate. 
The  Paris  Agreement,  for  which  the  Principality 
campaigned,  represents  a  milestone.  Monaco  will 
become  party  to  that  Agreement  by  the  end  of  2016, 
once  its  National  Council  has  adopted  the  law  for  its 
ratification. I also recall that Monaco is committed to 
reducing its greenhouse-gas emissions by 50 per cent 
by 2030 as compared with emission levels in 1990.
Despite its small responsibility for global emissions, 
our  country  has  the  ambition  to  be  a  leader  in  using 
innovative means of transport and energy consumption. 
34/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
that  generate 
In addition to preserving our common heritage and to 
limiting  pollution,  the  use  of  inexhaustible  renewable 
energy  will  also  allow  us  to  break  with  certain 
monopolies 
today  and 
destabilize  our  world.  Such  a  programme  of  energy 
transfer has a cost, but we are convinced that that cost 
is small compared to the consequences of inaction. That 
is why Monaco is committed to maintaining its support 
for the Green Climate Fund.
inequalities 
Global  warming  has  several  tragic  consequences. 
One of them is related to the situation of the oceans. As 
we know, the sea surfaces have been severely neglected, 
even  though  they  are  critical  for  our  common  future. 
Monaco has a long-standing commitment to that issue, 
dating  back  to  Prince  Albert  I,  who  was  one  of  the 
founders of modern oceanography over 100 years ago. 
Since then, the Principality has taken action whenever 
the future of our seas was at stake. It did so in 2009, 
when it hosted 150 international scientists, who signed 
the Monaco Declaration, the first global warning about 
the acidification of the oceans. It also acted by taking 
on  various  targeted  initiatives  within  the  competent 
bodies, such as the one that made it possible for us to 
save  bluefin  tuna  in  the  Mediterranean.  It  also  acted 
through  the  appeal,  launched  by  Prince  Albert  II  at 
the  General  Assembly  in  2013,  aimed  at  including 
what became Sustainable Development Goal 14 on the 
oceans in the 2030 Agenda. It continues to take action, 
month after month, by contributing to the development 
of  protected  coastal  marine  areas  and  to  the  future 
establishment  of  a  network  of  protected  areas  on  the 
high seas.
We are convinced that such conservation solutions 
will  bring  about  extremely  positive  effects  for  the 
ecosystems  and  the  populations  that  are  directly 
or  potentially  affected.  Similarly,  the  Principality 
of  Monaco  has  taken  action  in  the  very  important 
negotiations 
the 
United  Nations  on  issues  of  biodiversity  and  national 
jurisdiction.
taking  place 
that  are 
today  at 
All of those issues are essential for the Principality 
of  Monaco.  All  of  those  issues  take  into  account  a 
primordial concern, which is the creation of our common 
future.  It  was  through  their  ability  to  dominate  and 
transform nature that our ancestors were able to develop 
and  secure  the  future  of  their  children.  However,  we 
must now also admit that it is through our capacity to 
protect nature and accept its rules that we can realize 
our  potential  and  build  a  future  for  humankind.  That 
change  in  the  model  disrupts  our  ways  of  thinking. 
It will take time for it to take hold and to replace the 
traditional ways of thinking that have shaped our world 
and its inhabitants for millenniums.
What  we  need  to  do  today  is  to  bring  about  a 
change of civilization. However, we can make progress 
in that direction only if all of humankind comes along 
with us with its dreams and desires. The 2016 UNESCO 
Global Education Monitoring Report also highlights a 
priority — that of education. Forty per cent of 15-year-
old  children  have  basic  knowledge  of  environmental 
issues.  That  brings  me  to  the  third  issue  for  our 
Organization  that  I  would  like  to  underscore  today 
before the Assembly. 
More  than  ever,  UNICEF,  which  is  celebrating 
its  seventieth  anniversary  this  year,  should  play  a 
central  role  in  solving  the  world’s  problems,  many  of 
which  relate  to  women  and  children.  At  a  time  when 
women  are  still  subjected  to  so  much  violence  and 
discrimination and when sexual violence is increasing 
in  such  an  unacceptable  way,  we  should  also  support 
the crucial work of UNICEF. In that respect, I would 
also like to reiterate the full support of the Principality 
of  Monaco  for  the  Security  Council  resolutions  on 
women  and  peace  and  security,  on  the  protection  of 
women  in  times  of  conflict  and  the  strengthening  of 
their role in peacekeeping, restoring peace and building 
of  peace.  In  our  unstable  and  unjust  world,  we  know 
that  education,  especially  that  of  girls,  is  the  solution 
to many of the problems we face. It is through women 
that the values of tolerance and respect can be upheld. 
That is why the education of girls and, more broadly, 
the equal education of all children should be a priority 
for all. 
The  power  of  the  United  Nations  lies  in  bringing 
States together to work in the service of the common 
good.  That  common  good  is  today  still  high  on  the 
agenda  of  the  Assembly.  We  must  better  manage 
refugees  and  migrants  by  protecting  the  planet  and 
through  education  for  children  and  the  establishment 
of  a  genuine  equality  between  men  and  women.  That 
is the path that Monaco will follow. Loyal to its values, 
its  history  and  its  commitments,  the  Principality  of 
Monaco  will  continue,  with  determination,  to  move 
forward  along  that  path,  together  with  the  entire 
international community, for a better future.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
16-29553
35/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
Head of Government of the Principality of Monaco for 
the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Serge  Telle,  Head  of  Government  of  the 
Principality  of  Monaco,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
Address by Mr. Tammam Salam, President of the 
Council of Ministers of the Lebanese Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Council of Ministers of the Lebanese Republic. 
Mr.  Tammam  Salam,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Lebanese Republic, was escorted 
to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Tammam  Salam,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Lebanese Republic, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly. 
Mr.  Salam  (Lebanon)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  allow  me  to  congratulate  the  President  on 
his  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventy-first  session.  Allow  me  also  to  thank 
Mr. Mogens Lykketoft for his tireless efforts throughout 
his  presidency  during  the  seventieth  session.  I  would 
also like to extend special thanks to Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon. We thank him for his annual report on 
the work of the Organization (A/71/1) and for the high 
priority  that  he  has  given  to  the  issues  of  the  Middle 
East and Lebanon. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  Lebanon’s 
commitment to assuming its role in achieving the lofty 
goals of the Organization. My country had the honour 
to  have  been  among  its  founding  Members.  Foremost 
among  those  goals  is  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security,  the  promotion  of  world  peace,  securing  the 
right  of  peoples  to  self-determination  and  ensuring 
respect for human rights. 
In 2016 we have witnessed tremendous international 
efforts  to  mobilize  goodwill,  reduce  the  number  of 
armed  conflicts  and  strengthen  communities.  Such 
efforts  have  come  about  either  under  the  auspices  or 
with  the  contribution  of  the  United  Nations,  with  the 
goal  of  improving  the  international  community’s 
ability  to  meet  the  unprecedented  challenges  that  are 
the mark of our era. Perhaps the most noble milestones 
were the signing by 175 States of the Paris Agreement 
on Climate Change, which took place in April, and the 
holding of the World Humanitarian Summit, which was 
held in Istanbul in May.
Lebanon  emphasizes  the  need  to  reactivate  and 
revitalize  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  so  as  to 
make it more effective in addressing issues of concern 
to the whole of humankind. Lebanon laments that the 
Security  Council  has  repeatedly  failed  to  address  the 
conflicts  raging  in  many  countries,  particularly  in 
the  Middle  East.  Lebanon  stresses  the  importance  of 
reforming  the  Security  Council  in  a  way  that  would 
reflect the latest political, economic and demographic 
realities emerging in our world.
My country is undergoing a severe political crisis, 
the  most  salient  aspect  of  which  is  the  inability  of 
Parliament for the past two and a half years to elect a 
President of the Republic. The crisis has led to the near 
paralysis of the legislative authorities and the slowdown 
of  the  work  of  the  executive  branch.  It  has  also  had 
negative repercussions on our economic situation.
All countries that consider themselves brothers and 
friends of Lebanon — all those who are familiar with 
the Lebanese scene — are well aware of the specificities 
of the political situation in my country and the extent 
to which it is influenced by external factors. The main 
external  factor  has  been  sharp  regional  polarization, 
which  has  turned  into  an  open  conflict  in  the  entire 
region.  Realism  compels  us  to  recognize  that  the 
solution  to  the  problem  of  the  presidential  vacancy  is 
not just in the hands of the Lebanese. I therefore call on 
all of Lebanon’s friends and supporters and all who are 
keen to avoid the emergence of a new area of tension in 
the Middle East to help the Lebanese elect a President 
of the country. The election of a new President will help 
rebalance  our  constitutional  institutions  and  protect 
the  Lebanese  model  of  coexistence,  which  is  the  last 
surviving model based on plurality in the Levant. 
We  reiterate  that  the  distressing  war  in  Syria 
has  produced  a  displacement  crisis  that  has  imposed 
an  unbearable  burden  on  Lebanon  that  exceeds  our 
capacities.  My  country,  with  its  limited  surface  area, 
is  hosting  numbers  of  displaced  Syrians  equivalent 
to  one  third  of  our  population.  We  are  shouldering 
our  humanitarian  duty  towards  those  people  with  our 
limited  resources  and  with  insufficient  support  from 
the international community. We are disappointed with 
the level of international response to our needs as a host 
country  —  a  response  that  is  not  commensurate  with 
36/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
the pledges made or the goodwill expressed on so many 
occasions. 
northern part of Ghajar, the Shaba’a farmlands and the 
Kfar Shouba Hills. 
Lebanon cannot and will not assimilate additional 
displaced  persons.  Lebanon  urges  the  United  Nations 
to craft an overarching vision for resettling displaced 
Syrians living in our territory in areas inside Syria and 
for working with the parties concerned to turn such a 
vision into a workable plan at the earliest possible time. 
As we await the realization of that plan, we stress once 
more the temporary character of the Syrian presence in 
Lebanon. Let me declare that Lebanon is not a country 
of permanent asylum. Lebanon is the homeland of the 
Lebanese and only the Lebanese. 
Lebanon  continues  to  suffer  from  the  threat  of 
terrorism. Lebanon is engaged in an open confrontation 
with  terrorism  —  a  confrontation  for  which  we  have 
paid dearly with the lives of our soldiers, civilians and 
children. We declare a commitment to fight the scourge 
in  all  its  forms.  We  stress  the  importance  of  regional 
and international cooperation in that fight. 
We believe that the isolationist tendencies of some 
communities — retreating behind separation walls with 
the  unhealthy  encouragement  of  Islamophobia  —  are 
aimed at an Islam that is being deceitfully brandished 
and branded by terrorists to justify their crimes. Such 
isolationist tendencies do not represent a panacea against 
terrorism. Rather, they are a recipe for the emergence 
of violent, extremist and racist tendencies, which have 
been  rejected  by  advanced  democracies  for  a  long 
time. Combating terrorism is a long-term process that 
requires major efforts at all levels. A precondition for the 
successful elimination of the terrorist phenomenon lies 
in eradicating its roots and the contributing factors that 
fuel it. We ought to address deprivation and injustice, 
which  are  the  incubators  of  extremism,  by  meeting 
the legitimate demands of people for freedom, dignity 
and equality and by rejecting all forms of violence and 
exclusion. 
On  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of 
Security  Council  resolution  1701  (2006),  Lebanon 
reiterates  its  commitment  to  that  resolution  with 
all  its  provisions.  Once  again,  Lebanon  calls  on  the 
international community to compel Israel to cease its 
violations of Lebanese sovereignty, to fully cooperate 
with  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping  forces  and  the 
United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, to demarcate 
what is left of the Blue Line and to withdraw from the 
Lebanon  reiterates  its  strong  determination  to 
safeguard  its  full  rights  over  its  water  and  natural 
resources,  including  oil  and  gas,  within  its  exclusive 
economic  zone.  Lebanon  called  on  the  Secretary-
General, during his visit to Beirut last March, to make 
use  of  his  good  offices  in  resolving  the  issue  of  the 
delimitation  of  the  exclusive  economic  zone  between 
Lebanon and Israel. We look forward to his heightened 
role in that area. 
We condemn Israel’s continuing occupation of the 
Palestinian land and its blockade of the Gaza Strip, as 
well as its obstruction of the efforts to rebuild what was 
destroyed  by  the  Israeli  aggression  in  the  summer  of 
2014. We call for the principle of legal accountability to 
be applied in the case of the war crimes committed by 
Israel, to prevent those crimes from going unpunished.
We hold Israel responsible for foiling all attempts 
to reach a peaceful settlement, and we stress the need 
for  a  just,  comprehensive  and  lasting  solution  to  the 
conflict,  based  on  Security  Council  resolutions  242 
(1967) and 338 (1973), the Madrid terms of reference, 
including  the  principle  of  land  for  peace,  and  the 
Arab Peace Initiative. We furthermore stress the right 
of  Palestinian  refugees  to  return  home,  pursuant  to 
international resolutions. 
At  this  very  moment,  as  I  speak  before  the 
Assembly, a major cycle of violence continues to rage 
in the Arab Levant, causing the destruction of homes 
and  livelihoods,  hospitals  and  places  of  worship. 
Communities are being uprooted from their homelands 
and hurled into the abyss of an unknown future. Great 
cities  are  being  razed  to  the  ground  and  erased  from 
the map without any consideration for their historical 
importance, or indeed their human heritage value. 
We renew our call to all influential Powers to cease 
procrastinating  and  hesitating  and  to  assume  their 
responsibilities  by  acting  with  determination  to  stop 
the bloodshed and restore security and stability in our 
region. We appeal to everyone to join wholeheartedly 
and  effectively 
the  fight  against  obscurantist 
terrorism.  We  warn  against  the  dangers  of  tampering 
with maps, demolishing existing entities and changing 
the demographic nature of communities or threatening 
their social cohesion and religious diversity. 
in 
16-29553
37/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
that 
We  believe 
the  main  prerequisite 
for 
consolidating  stability  and  eliminating  hotbeds  of 
extremism in the Middle East is to meet the just demands 
of  the  people  to  live  independently,  with  dignity  and 
freedom, and to find a just solution to the Palestinian 
cause.  We  would  like  to  stress  the  importance  of 
establishing peaceful relations among the countries of 
the region, based on good-neighbourliness, respect for 
the sovereignty of other countries and the principle of 
non-interference  in  their  internal  affairs.  We  call  for 
the promotion of the culture of peace and dialogue to 
protect the oases of diversity in the Levant. 
Amid the violent maelstrom that is sweeping across 
the  Levant,  where  everything  is  in  flux  and  endless 
waves  of  displaced  persons  are  leaving  their  homes 
and communities, a small entity called Lebanon stands 
firm against the aftershocks of the crisis that is tearing 
everything apart around it, and offers the world a model 
other than that which is intended to prove the inability 
of our region to tolerate the possibility of coexistence 
among different entities. 
Lebanon  is  a  shining  star,  an  example  of  affinity 
among various affiliations and a model totally opposed 
to the notion of a single-colour racist State that rejects 
all  other  shades.  It  is  a  laboratory  of  partnership  at 
a  time  when  sects,  nationalities  and  ethnicities  are 
fighting one another and populations are fleeing their 
countries.  Yet  that  model  is  suffering  from  political 
weakness  and  needs  the  world  to  offer  it  a  helping 
hand. Meanwhile, the Lebanese people will remain in 
the heart of the oppressed Levant — firmly committed 
to living together in one unified State. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Council of Ministers of the Lebanese 
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Tammam  Salam,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Lebanese Republic, was escorted 
from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Haider Al Abadi, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Iraq
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Iraq.
Mr. Haider Al Abadi, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Iraq, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Haider 
Al Abadi, Prime Minister of the Republic of Iraq, and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Al  Abadi  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  A  year 
ago,  as  I  stood  at  this  rostrum  (A/70/PV.21),  large 
areas  of  Iraqi  territory  were  occupied  by  the  terrorist 
organization Da’esh. Today, as we stand here again, we 
are  able  to  declare  before  the  General  Assembly  that 
Iraq is being liberated and that Iraqis have been able to 
free most of their land and towns, thanks to their unity 
and  determination.  Currently  we  are  in  the  process 
of  liberating  Ninawa,  the  last  province  controlled  by 
Da’esh, where we have regained major areas. We shall 
complete its liberation by the end of the year. 
Let me report that today our heroic forces liberated 
the city of Al-Sharqat in Salahaddin province and other 
neighbouring areas and major towns. That is testimony 
to the great confidence and capabilities of our forces, 
who  enjoy  the  full  support  of  the  local  residents.  I 
commend  all  of  the  valiant  soldiers  who  are  working 
to liberate peaceful Iraq from the Islamic State in Iraq 
and  the  Levant  (ISIL).  We  have  declared  2016  as  a 
year  of  liberation  and  victory.  Our  fundamental  goal 
is  to  liberate  our  people  and  the  land  and  to  save  the 
civilians from ISIL, which has ruined all aspects of life 
and destroyed archaeological monuments of the ancient 
civilization of Mesopotamia. 
in 
the 
Assisted  by  our  friends 
international 
community, we have started to implement programmes 
for the return of internally displaced persons (IDPs) to 
the  liberated  areas.  In  that  context,  we  developed  an 
integrated programme for stabilization and the provision 
of services, particularly water, electricity, schools and 
hospitals.  We  call  on  the  international  community  to 
provide  further  support  for  sheltering  and  returning 
IDPs, especially in the light of the forthcoming battle to 
fully liberate Ninawa and the anticipated increase in the 
number of displaced persons. We thank all those who 
have stood beside our people in the face of economic 
and security challenges, and we look forward to further 
support and collaboration. 
We would commend the United Nations system for 
providing humanitarian assistance to the people of Iraq 
and for its role in addressing IDP issues. We applaud 
the support extended by the States of the international 
coalition  aimed  at  tackling  terrorism,  as  well  as  of 
friendly countries. We commend the World Bank, the 
38/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
International  Monetary  Fund  and  other  international 
organizations  for  supporting  the  plans  and  efforts  of 
the  Iraqi  Government  to  reform  the  Iraqi  economy, 
overcome  the  financial  crisis  and  fight  corruption  in 
all  its  forms.  We  greatly  appreciate  the  constructive 
position  of  the  Group  of  Seven  States  and  thank  the 
donors  conference  for  the  reconstruction  of  Iraq 
recently held in Washington, D.C. 
In  the  area  of  economic  and  financial  reforms, 
the  Government  implemented  an  ambitious  reform 
programme to reduce government expenditure, despite 
having  to  spend  more  to  support  the  war  against 
terrorism.  As  part  of  its  administrative  reforms, 
the  Government  initiated  the  restructuring  of  many 
State  institutions.  It  prioritized  citizens’  services  by 
streamlining  procedures,  removing  many  obstacles, 
simplifying  the  procedures  to  deal  with  citizens’ 
affairs and removing impediments to investment. The 
Government also strengthened procedures for creating 
private-sector partnerships and had a good measure of 
success in that regard.
As  for  fighting  corruption,  we  have  signed  a 
memorandum of understanding with the United Nations 
Development Programme to benefit from international 
expertise  to  aid  Iraq  in  capacity-building  to  fight 
corruption.  The  past  few  weeks  have  seen  practical 
steps  in  that  regard.  We  look  forward  to  making 
more  progress  in  fighting  terrorism  and  bringing  the 
perpetrators to justice. 
We look forward to the day when Iraq and the whole 
region are free of the criminal acts perpetrated by the 
Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). But we will 
be  satisfied  only  when  the  whole  world  becomes  free 
from terrorism that threatens our peoples and nations. 
This requires serious collaboration to contain terrorism, 
cut  off  its  ideological  and  financial  resources  and 
dismantle  its  networks  and  recruitment  hubs  all  over 
the  world.  Without  such  cooperation,  terrorism  will 
spread  everywhere,  giving  rise  to  increased  numbers 
of refugees fleeing conflict areas. Those numbers have 
already reached unprecedentedly high levels.
We assure Member States that ISIL is indisputably 
a greater enemy of Islam than of other faiths. ISIL has 
murdered  thousands  of  Muslims,  wrought  destruction 
and spread its evil to many Arab and Islamic States. It has 
been active in capitals and cities worldwide — killing 
and terrorizing civilians in France, Belgium, Germany, 
the  United  States  of  America,  Russia  and  elsewhere. 
We  have  no  choice  but  to  cooperate  to  win  the  war 
against  these  evil  terrorists.  We  deem  any  victory 
achieved  against  ISIL  anywhere  in  the  world  to  be  a 
global triumph.
The danger of the formation of terrorist organizations 
such  as  Al-Qaida  or  Da’esh/ISIL  will  not  end  until 
we  address  the  problem  of  their  radical  ideology. 
These  backward  groups  rely  on  sectarian  segregation 
and  hostility  towards  all  other  faiths  and  beliefs,  and 
their ideology is fuelled by a short-sighted vision that 
has  hindered  national  development  opportunities.  If 
we  are  to  combat  this  pernicious  scourge,  which  has 
spread  among  some  young  people  and  exploited  their 
feelings  of  disaffection  and  despair,  countries  and 
organizations must take a determined stand. They must 
review the programmes and curriculums of educational 
institutions and address feelings of frustration, with a 
view  to  absorbing  disaffected  young  people  into  the 
mainstream of society. Any attempts by such terrorist 
organizations to re-establish themselves in future must 
be pre-empted.
ISIL,  which  falsely  claims  that  it  is  defending 
Sunnis,  has  so  far  killed  Shiites,  Sunnis,  Christians, 
Yazidis,  Arabs,  Kurds  and  Turkmens,  and  Shabak 
as  well.  Their  atrocities  have  been  directed  at  the 
entire  ethnic  spectrum  of  Iraq  and  involved  takfir, 
displacement,  female  enslavement,  genocide  and  the 
destruction of antiquities, mosques and churches. Such 
heinous crimes were perpetrated against cities, such as 
Amerly,  Sinjar,  Taza,  Anbar,  Mosul,  Salahuddin  and 
Diyala, and against the victims of the Camp Speicher 
massacre, not to mention the cowardly terrorist attacks 
on civilians in the districts of Baghdad and the rest of 
Iraq’s provinces.
Iraq encountered two external factors that affected 
stability and economic and social growth. Apart from 
terrorism, we have had to face the global decline in oil 
prices, which caused a budget loss amounting to 70 per 
cent of revenues, in addition to the burden of increased 
military  and  security  expenditures  to  free  Iraqi  cities 
from  terrorism  and  to  rebuild  them.  It  was  only 
natural that this would negatively impact development, 
investment and reconstruction plans. Despite all these 
daunting  challenges,  we  continued  to  implement  our 
comprehensive  reform  programme  and  to  combat  the 
corruption that corrodes our State agencies and social 
institutions. From the outset, we realized that this reform 
programme  would  be  no  less  difficult  and  dangerous 
than  tackling  terrorism.  However,  we  are  determined 
16-29553
39/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
that it will be implemented despite all the challenges. 
We are confident that we can win the battle of reforms, 
just as we won the battle to liberate our lands.
divisions in our region, which continues to be racked by 
internal wars and external interventions that have made 
our civilian populations ever more miserable.
We  and  our  people  stand  together  shoulder  to 
shoulder in our fight against terrorism and corruption. 
We are working together to build a State that is based 
on  peaceful  coexistence  and  respect  for  religious, 
ideological  and  sectarian  diversity,  guided  by  the 
values and principles of justice and equality. Each Iraqi 
contributes to the victory achieved in the fight against 
ISIL. It is a national and non-conventional, existential 
battle, involving all the Iraqi people. Our armed forces, 
federal  and  local  police,  the  popular  mobilization 
forces, the tribal mobilization forces and the Peshmerga 
forces represent all religions, ethnicities and sects; they 
share  one  goal,  namely,  to  defend  our  homeland  and 
its  sacred  values.  Our  religious  leader,  His  Eminence 
the  Grand  Ayatollah  Sayyid  Ali  al-Sistani,  supported 
this  defence.  His  historic  fatwa  led  to  a  broad-based 
mobilization  of  the  entire  Iraqi  people,  and  religious 
leaders and clergy of all religious creeds in Iraq widely 
embraced and supported the fatwa.
Iraq  is  keen  to  participate  alongside  all  countries 
in  advancing  development  efforts  and  attaining  the 
Sustainable Development Goals — combating poverty 
the  environment, 
and  discrimination,  protecting 
enhancing  child-care  programmes  and 
improving 
standards  of  health  and  education.  Our  intent  is  to 
create an environment that promotes freedom, human 
rights, equality and the vitally important participation 
of women in the State and society.
We  call  on  nations  worldwide  to  commit  to 
implementing the relevant Security Council resolutions 
on preventing support to, financing or arming terrorist 
groups that kill civilians, as well as General Assembly 
resolutions  on  safeguarding  Iraq’s  cultural  heritage. 
Thanks  to  a  cooperative  effort  between  Iraq  and 
UNESCO, the wetland areas of southern Iraq have now 
been added to the list of World Heritage sites. We are 
also  keen  to  meet  the  inclusion  requirements  for  the 
rest of the cultural sites and treasures of Iraq’s ancient 
civilization.
We take this opportunity to call on the international 
community to exert efforts to end conflicts, prevent wars, 
support  peace  and  security,  encourage  development 
opportunities and reject policies involving interference 
in  the  internal  affairs  of  other  States.  Such  policies 
result in more suffering among our peoples and deeper 
We  appeal  to  the  international  community  to 
support and respect Iraq’s sovereignty and to demand 
that  Turkey  withdraw  its  forces  from  our  territory, 
where  their  continued  presence,  despite  the  fact  that 
Iraqis have rejected it, is an obstacle to our efforts to 
liberate Ninawa.
The  Iraqi  Government  is  working  hard  to  help 
the Iraqi people live in peaceful coexistence with one 
another  and  to  treat  all  citizens  equally  on  a  basis  of 
good  citizenship,  regardless  of  their  religion,  sect  or 
ethnicity. We would like to reiterate our gratitude to the 
United Nations and our friends for their support to Iraq 
and the Iraqi people through their various humanitarian 
programmes aimed at caring for displaced people and 
refugees. We also thank them for their support of the 
Iraqi  Government’s  efforts  to  achieve  security  and 
stability  and  the  reforms  and  economic  development 
that our people aspire to.
We  would  like  to  congratulate  the  President  on 
his  election  to  lead  the  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first 
session. We would also like to thank Mr. Lykketoft for 
his leadership at the seventieth session, and to warmly 
congratulate the Secretary-General on the forthcoming 
conclusion of his term of office at the end of this year. 
We pay tribute to him for his excellent stewardship of 
the United Nations. He has visited Iraq many times, and 
we thank him for his support of our development plans.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Iraq for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Haider Al Abadi, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Iraq, was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Albert  Koenders,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Mr. Koenders (Netherlands): Before I came here, 
Sahar  Afzal,  a  representative  of  Dutch  youth,  asked 
me a simple question. “Minister,” he said, “do you still 
believe in the United Nations?” That question made me 
think. A plain and simple yes is the answer one would 
probably expect from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Kingdom of the Netherlands, a nation with a strong 
tradition of cooperation, dialogue and partnership and a 
40/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
founding Member of the United Nations, with an active 
commitment to peace, justice and development. But my 
answer was not that simple. The English art critic Clive 
Bell wrote that while we believe, what we believe is not 
necessarily true. There can be a lot of wishful thinking 
in believing something. Believing is not always enough. 
It is what we do that matters. And so it is when we look 
at  the  United  Nations,  as  the  world’s  premier  global 
multilateral organization.
There  is  widespread  agreement  that  the  United 
Nations  needs  to  reassert  and  transform  itself,  and 
I  think  that  is  correct.  The  challenges  are  enormous; 
according  to  some,  the  world  is  at  a  tipping  point. 
And  the  outlook  is  indeed  gloomy.  Geopolitical  fault 
lines are deepening. Shifts in the global economy are 
fuelling tension and uncertainty. Growth has stagnated. 
Inequality  within  and  among  countries  has  grown. 
Worldwide,  the  number  of  refugees  is  the  highest  it 
has  been  since  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations. 
Promising  democracy  movements  have  turned  into 
bloody  conflicts,  and  new  wars  have  broken  out,  the 
most tragic examples being the conflict in Syria and the 
brutal extremism of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. 
Terrorism has taken a deadly toll in many places around 
the world, including on my continent, Europe. Violence 
against women in war zones and elsewhere is a scourge.
There  is  no  denying  it  —  too  many  people  in 
the  world  have  drawn  the  short  straw.  In  a  world  of 
globalization,  climate  change  and  conflict,  they  are 
losing  out.  The  longer  we  permit  that  to  go  on,  the 
further  we  drift  from  the  inclusive  United  Nations 
ideal of “we the peoples”. Not “we, some people”, but 
“we  the  peoples”.  Will  we  be  able  to  strengthen  our 
positive forces, or will we let the negative forces tear 
the world apart? At this pivotal moment in history, the 
United  Nations  and  the  other  institutions  that  were 
built  to  bring  us  together  must  be  strong  enough  to 
prevent  that  from  happening.  But  are  they?  The  idea 
of unstoppable, progressive global integration has lost 
its  aura  of  inevitability.  On  my  own  continent,  the 
process  of  European  cooperation  is  being  debated.  In 
many  places  inside  and  outside  Europe,  ghosts  of  the 
past  have  come  back  to  haunt  us  —  nationalism  and 
xenophobia. And when I see the kinds of stories about 
the United Nations that are being reported in my own 
country,  the  Netherlands  —  which  has  traditionally 
been a very strong supporter — I realize that the United 
Nations is too often seen as helpless and fragmented, an 
overwhelmed Organization struggling to cope with the 
challenges it faces.
And  yet  the  United  Nations  has  no  choice  but 
to  play  a  key  role  in  delivering  solutions,  now  and 
in  future,  in  order  to  make  the  world  safer,  more 
just  and  better  prepared  for  what  the  future  brings. 
There  is  no  alternative.  The  United  Nations  is  the 
best  imperfect  global  Organization  we  have,  the  only 
global  Organization  that  embodies  the  principles 
of  multilateralism  —  legitimacy,  universality  and 
standard-setting  authority  and  that  has  not  only 
convening power, which is very important, but also the 
ability to deliver services on a global scale.
What  must  be  done?  As 
the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change and, only this week, the New York Declaration 
for  Refugees  and  Migrants  (resolution  71/1)  have 
shown, the United Nations remains the one legitimate 
institution where international goals and ambitions are 
set and where we can agree on new global challenges. 
But now is the time for implementation. We must walk 
the  talk.  I  know  that  implementation  is  not  always 
very  sexy.  It  does  not  often  make  headlines.  It  is  not 
usually  accompanied  by  Angélique  Kidjo  or  Shakira 
singing onstage, as they did last year in this very Hall 
during  the  magnificent  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  But 
implementation 
is  necessary  to  deliver  on  the  goals  we  set,  and  it  is 
necessary for the Organization to remain relevant and 
credible — to survive.
an 
should  be 
That  is  why  I  believe  that  a  shift  from  outcome 
documents  to  action  and  execution  should  be  the 
top  priority  of  both  the  United  Nations  membership 
and  the  new  Secretary-General.  The  new  Secretary-
General 
“Implementer-General”, 
working  on  the  basis  of  a  twenty-first-century  vision 
of  global  cooperation.  There  is  plenty  of  work  to 
do.  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  is  leaving  his 
successor an impressive body of standards, objectives 
and recommendations, and the Netherlands is grateful 
for  his  enormous  leadership  during  a  very  difficult 
period. The new Secretary-General can hit the ground 
running and boost further implementation of the 2030 
Agenda and the Paris Agreement, of peacekeeping and 
peacebuilding  reform,  including  real  zero  tolerance 
for  sexual  exploitation  and  abuse,  as  well  as  the  very 
important  issue  of  reform  of  the  United  Nations 
development system.
16-29553
41/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
But the Secretary-General cannot do it alone. The 
membership  must  shoulder  its  responsibilities.  At  a 
time  of  so  many  false  notes,  we  need  to  work  on  our 
global  orchestra.  Maybe  the  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  should  declare  a  moratorium  on  new 
and lofty outcome documents until we have delivered 
on the commitments and promises made in the ones that 
we already have adopted. Let us pause in the talk for a 
while and get the action going for the people whom we 
represent.
The Kingdom of the Netherlands is ready to support 
the new Secretary-General in a drive for implementation. 
Implementation is not just technique; it is mastering the 
political will to get things done. We have made a good 
start with the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development in our own country. We look 
forward to sharing our national voluntary presentation 
with  the  membership  next  summer.  Globally,  we  are 
committed  to  an  integrated  approach  to  peace  and 
security, development and human rights that leaves no 
one behind. The Netherlands is a top-10 humanitarian 
donor, a supporter of and a contributor to peacekeeping. 
We will ratify the Paris Agreement on Climate Change 
shortly.  We  would  like  the  migration  compact  and 
the  refugee  compact  provided  for  in  the  New  York 
Declaration on Migrants and Refugees to be clear and 
actionable.
United Nations reform needs to pick up steam now. 
The Security Council continues to fulfil a crucial role, 
imperfect  as  it  may  be.  But  it  is  no  longer  1945.  The 
Council is simply not representative enough. We need 
to devise a way to fix that shortcoming before it is too 
late, even if it means thinking outside the box. As the 
Assembly may recall, I have suggested that a Council 
seat be assigned to the European Union in due course, 
and I invite other regions to also reflect on collective 
regional representation on the Council.
The right of the veto should not render the Security 
Council powerless, especially when — as we see every 
day,  including  this  week  —  mass  atrocities  are  being 
committed. Council members should be more conscious 
of their responsibilities and be held more accountable 
if  they  block  action  against  breaches  of  international 
humanitarian law. Last year’s important reviews — and 
I think they were very important — of peace operations 
and  peacebuilding  underline  the  primacy  of  political 
solutions and of sustaining the peace. I could not agree 
more. 
More focus on conflict prevention is also needed. 
Indeed,  this  community  has  been  underlining  the 
need  for  conflict  prevention  for  50  years.  Successful 
preventive  diplomacy  can  keep  situations  of  concern 
from spiralling out of control. It can keep cases from 
being  added  to  the  Council’s  agenda;  once  a  case  is 
taken up by the Security Council — let us face it — we 
in a sense have already collectively failed. We need to 
make sure that there are sufficient resources for political 
missions,  mediation  and  other  preventive  actions.  In 
its  recent  report,  the  Independent  Commission  on 
Multilateralism  recommends  a  fundraising  drive  for 
prevention.  While  that  is  an  admirable  suggestion,  I 
would  say  that  what  is  needed  is  not  fundraising  for 
prevention,  but  budgeting  for  prevention.  If  we  agree 
that  conflict  prevention  is  crucial  to  the  mandate  of 
the  United  Nations,  then  we  must  devote  sufficient 
resources  to  it  from  the  regular  budget,  through 
assessed  contributions  by  all  Member  States  and  not 
just  through  the  extrabudgetary  generosity  of  a  few. 
That may require a thorough review and reprioritization 
of the way in which budget resources are allocated at 
the United Nations.
The points that I am making are part of an integrated 
approach that my country has long advocated, including 
during  our  previous  term  on  the  Security  Council. 
We  intend  to  pursue  that  approach  during  our  2018 
Council  term  as  well.  Conflicts  cannot  be  resolved 
unless  the  root  causes  are  addressed.  Peace,  justice 
and  development  are  closely  interlinked  and  should 
not be dealt with in isolation. The Peacebuilding Fund, 
which was established in 2005, is a good example of an 
integrated  approach  to  sustaining  peace,  as  the  great 
pledging conference that we held yesterday illustrates. I 
am pleased to say that, earlier this week, the Netherlands 
pledged  €10  million 
the  Fund.  The  growing 
recognition  of  the  importance  of  accountability  is 
another example. There can be no durable peace without 
justice and respect for human rights. Tomorrow I will 
deposit  the  instrument  of  ratification  of  the  Kampala 
amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal Court on the crime of aggression.
to 
Other Security Council priorities for the Kingdom 
of  the  Netherlands  in  2018  include  the  protection 
of  civilians  and  addressing  the  peace  and  security 
implications  of  climate  change.  As  a  Kingdom 
consisting  of  one  low-lying  country,  the  Netherlands, 
and  three  small  Caribbean  island  countries,  Aruba, 
42/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
Curacao and Sint Maarten, that is an issue of particular 
concern to us.
Fortunately,  the  grim  tableau  that  I  sketched  a 
moment  ago  is  not  the  whole  picture.  There  has  been 
genuine and significant progress. In the past 20 years, 
the  percentage  of  people  living  in  extreme  poverty 
has  been  halved.  That  was  one  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, which we achieved well before the 
2015 deadline. I remember that many of us in this Hall 
believed that that would not be possible. Well, that Goal 
was reached. 
Sometimes 
lightning  does  strike 
twice.  The 
international  community  has  reached  agreement  on 
the Sustainable Development Goals for 2030. Another 
major  achievement  and  a  victory  for  diplomacy  in 
a  time  of  so  much  strife  is  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change. With the recent ratifications by China 
and the United States, there is a real prospect that it will 
enter  into  force,  hopefully  before  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon leaves office at the end of this year. That 
is in large part his legacy, and we commend Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon for it.
And, yes, there have also been positive developments 
in  the  area  of  security.  New  and  important  work  has 
been  undertaken  to  stop  foreign  terrorist  fighters 
from travelling to conflict zones, to halt the financing 
of  terrorism,  to  impose  sanctions  on  ISIS,  and  to 
work  in  communities  on  deradicalization  and  local 
support,  putting  together  hard  and  soft  security.  The 
Netherlands,  together  with  Morocco,  is  trying  to  do 
its  part  as  co-Chair  of  the  Global  Counterterrorism 
Forum. Preventing violent extremism is now also high 
on our United Nations agenda, thanks to the Secretary-
General’s plan of action.
And, yes, peacekeeping has evolved and has been 
transformed  from  traditional  ceasefire  monitoring 
missions  into  very  complex  missions  with  integrated 
mandates.  More  attention  is  being  paid  to  the  entire 
spectrum  of  peacekeeping,  from  early  warning  and 
prevention to peacebuilding in the fragile post-conflict 
period.  And  more  consideration  is  being  given  to  the 
protection  of  civilians  —  the  goal  of  peacekeeping 
missions — including the tackling of gender and sexual 
abuse  and  the  important  task  of  establishing  the  rule 
of law.
That is not just theory or statistics. Ask the 12,000 
people  who  sought  refuge  at  the  United  Nations 
compound in Bor, South Sudan. Head of Mission Ken 
Payumo  had  the  courage  to  let  them  in  and  protect 
them.  Ask  the  women  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  where,  thanks  to  the  gender  unit  in  the 
United  Nations  Organization  Stabilization  Mission, 
sexual violence has decreased substantially since 2013. 
Ask  the  people  of  Nepal,  where,  in  2006,  the  United 
Nations helped the Seven-Party Alliance to sustain the 
peaceful solution to the conflict.
Allow me to briefly go back to the previous term 
of  the  Netherlands  on  the  Security  Council.  Our 
first  meeting  was  on  Sunday,  2  January  1999,  when 
the  Council  convened  an  emergency  meeting  in  the 
afternoon.  A  United  Nations-chartered  plane  had  just 
been shot down in war-ravaged Angola. United Nations 
personnel were being held hostage by the National Union 
for  the  Total  Independence  of  Angola.  Two  decades 
later,  Angola  has  seen  substantial  improvements;  it  is 
currently a non-permanent member of the Council. Or 
take Sierra Leone, another country that was frequently 
on  the  Council’s  agenda  that  year.  The  international 
community  helped  to  broker  a  peace  agreement  and 
put in place a large peacekeeping operation. In 2004, a 
United Nations-backed war crimes court, located in the 
Netherlands, began trying senior leaders on both sides 
of the conflict. Sierra Leone now has a democratically 
elected  President  and,  with  international  support,  is 
emerging from the recent Ebola crisis.
In  all  these  cases,  we  can  see  the  results  of  hard 
work, sustained effort and prolonged investment by the 
international community. Those are results that should 
make  us  proud  and  hopeful.  But  such  successes  soon 
fade from the public mind when they are replaced by 
images  of  children  suffering  the  trauma  of  wars  for 
which  they  are  not  responsible.  We  cannot  deny  that 
there  have  been  peace  and  security  failures.  The  list 
has  the  power  to  shock:  Rwanda,  Srebrenica.  Now  it 
includes Yemen and, of course, Syria, with Aleppo as a 
terrifying symbol.
The  number-one  priority  now  is  to  restore  the 
cessation  of  hostilities  and  ensure  humanitarian 
access. I call upon the parties most closely involved to 
do  everything  in  their  power  to  make  that  happen  as 
soon as possible. And I call upon them, as I have done 
before,  to  ensure  proper  and  transparent  monitoring 
of any such cessation of hostilities. If non-compliance 
becomes the norm, how can we expect Syrians to trust 
the international community and to put their faith in the 
United Nations system?
16-29553
43/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
In  resolution  2254  (2015),  the  Security  Council 
unanimously  expressed  its  support  for  a  nationwide 
ceasefire  in  Syria.  If  violence  continues  to  be  the 
norm, I urge the Council not to remain silent. Like my 
French  colleague,  I  wish  to  ensure  better  monitoring 
and  follow-up  when  a  ceasefire  is  breached.  At  the 
International  Syria  Support  Group,  which  will  meet 
this  afternoon,  we  will  call  for  more  qualitative  and 
transparent monitoring and for the systematic violations 
of ceasefires to be dealt with by the Security Council.
At the same time, let us not forget the primacy of 
politics. While we work frantically to relieve the tragic 
humanitarian  situation,  work  on  a  political  transition 
plan  for  Syria  should  go  ahead,  since  only  a  political 
solution can end the horrific tragedy. We wholeheartedly 
support the outstanding efforts by the Special Envoy of 
the Secretary-General, Staffan de Mistura, and others 
to that end.
What is the value of the United Nations and where 
is  its  credibility  if  we  talk  about  the  responsibility 
to  protect  but  are  not  capable  of  resolving  the  Syrian 
conflict  or  ready  to  answer  the  call  by  the  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  for  an  independent 
international  investigation  into  serious  human  rights 
violations in Yemen?
In  conclusion,  what  we  do  matters  greatly.  That 
is why I have stressed the need for an era of genuine 
implementation under the guidance of an “Implementer-
General”.  But  how  we  talk  about  the  United  Nations 
also matters. By that I mean we must tell the real story, 
the whole story. We should not simply paint the usual 
gloomy picture of a powerless United Nations. We need 
to  counter  the  entrenched  view  that  the  Organization 
is  simply  a  burden  to  be  borne  and  a  scapegoat  for 
our  failures.  The  United  Nations  can  be  greater  than 
the sum of its parts only if we allow it to be. And we 
must — there is too much at stake.
Finally,  let  me  return  to  the  question  that  I  was 
asked:  do  I  still  believe  in  the  United  Nations?  My 
answer was yes, but only if we show the determination 
and  resolve  of  which  the  Charter  speaks.  The  agenda 
is  clear.  The  goals  have  been  set.  Now  is  the  time  to 
implement and deliver.
The Kingdom of the Netherlands will continue to 
do its part and will remain a steadfast supporter of the 
United Nations and its institutions, as it has been since 
the Organization’s inception. It is with that in mind that 
we  are  cooperating  closely  with  Italy  to  prepare  for 
membership of the Security Council.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on His Excellency Cardinal Pietro Parolin, Secretary of 
State of the Holy See.
Cardinal  Parolin  (Holy  See):  Last  year,  in  his 
address in this Hall, His Holiness Pope Francis defined 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  as  “an 
important  sign  of  hope”  (A/70/PV.3,  p.  4).  Just  a  few 
days ago, he reiterated his appreciation for the actions 
taken last year by the United Nations, encouraging all 
to  put  those  ambitious  objectives  into  practice.  and 
saying that 
“[t]he  protection  of  our  common  home  requires  a 
growing  global  political  consensus.  Along  these 
lines,  I  am  gratified  that,  in  September  2015, 
the  nations  of  the  world  adopted  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and  that,  in  December  2015, 
they  approved  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change, which sets the demanding yet fundamental 
goal of halting the rising of the global temperature. 
Now  Governments  are  obliged  to  honour  the 
commitments  they  made,  while  businesses  must 
also responsibly do their part. It is up to citizens to 
insist that this happen and indeed to advocate for 
even more ambitious goals.”
The  achievement  of  the  2030  Agenda  involves  an 
important  assumption  of  responsibility  on  the  part  of 
Governments and the commitment of all, for the common 
good.  This  commitment  entails  recognizing  the  need 
to  strive  not  only  for  great  macroeconomic  goals  but 
for  outcomes  that  are  specific,  lasting  and  equitably 
distributed. Without a stable financial situation, lasting 
investments  and  a  commercial  appraisal  that  favours 
internal  growth,  however,  the  2030  Agenda  will  be 
impossible  to  achieve.  Pope  Francis  has  emphasized 
that 
“[e]conomics  and  politics  and  society  and  culture 
cannot be dominated by thinking only of the short-
term  and  immediate  financial  or  electoral  gains. 
Instead,  they  urgently  need  to  be  redirected  to 
the  common  good,  which  includes  sustainability 
and  care  for  creation.  One  concrete  case  is  the 
‘ecological  debt’  between  the  global  north  and 
south.  Repaying  it  would  require  treating  the 
environments  of  poorer  nations  with  care  and 
providing  the  financial  resources  and  technical 
44/46 
16-29553
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.14
assistance  needed  to  help  them  deal  with  climate 
change and promote sustainable development.”
We 
always 
that 
development  — 
human 
development — cannot be imposed. Men and women, 
as individuals, must be the principal agents of the 2030 
Agenda.  Last  year,  in  this  very  Hall,  Pope  Francis 
affirmed that
remember 
integral 
especially 
must 
“[t]his  presupposes  and  requires  the  right  to 
education ... which is ensured first and foremost by 
respecting and reinforcing the primary right of the 
family to educate its children, as well as the right 
of churches and social groups to support and assist 
families in the education of their boys and girls.
“[f]or  all  this,  the  simplest  and  best  measure  and 
indicator of the implementation of the new agenda 
for  development  will  be  effective,  practical  and 
immediate  access,  on  the  part  of  all,  to  essential 
material  and  spiritual  goods:  housing,  dignified 
and  properly  remunerated  employment,  adequate 
food  and  drinking  water,  religious  freedom  and, 
more  generally,  spiritual  freedom  and  education” 
(supra, p. 4).
Such  a  process  of  bringing  about  integral  human 
development  —  a  concept  that  includes  but  is  not 
exhausted  by  economic  development  —  should, 
through multilateral initiatives, stimulate also the quest 
for complementary, alternative finance systems capable 
of ensuring that financial resources are both accessible 
to and sustainable for the poorest.
As Pope Francis said here last year,
“[the] pillars of integral human development have 
a  common  foundation,  which  is  the  right  to  life,” 
(ibid., p. 4) 
and we are required to 
includes 
“recognize a moral law written into human nature 
itself,  which 
the  natural  difference 
between man and woman and an absolute respect 
for life in all its stages and dimensions” (ibid., p. 5).
Moreover, 
is 
impossible  without  peace.  Only  two  days  ago  in 
Assisi,  Pope  Francis,  together  with  numerous  other 
world  religious  leaders,  stressed  the  importance  of 
dialogue as a privileged way to becoming peacemakers. 
Conflicts  not  only  render  the  attainment  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  at  the  regional  level 
development 
integral 
human 
absolutely impossible, but also destroy so many human 
resources,  means  of  production  and  cultural  heritage. 
Today, as during the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, there is 
the recurrence of the threat of nuclear conflict with its 
terrible consequences.
The  enormous  and  ill-fated  effect  of  war  is 
a  downward  spiral  from  which  there  is  often  no 
escape.  It  triggers  increased  political  polarization  at 
the  global  level  and  narrows  the  spaces  in  which  the 
same  international  community  can  propose  effective 
solutions for a stable and lasting peace.
Among the factors that degrade social coexistence 
in  countries  and  undermine  the  whole  international 
community  we  must  count  the  scourge  of  terrorism. 
In  the  course  of  recent  years  we  have  seen  terrorism 
metastasize to so many parts of the world. Neighbours 
of Syria and Iraq have increasingly become the victims 
of innumerable barbaric acts. Beyond the Middle East, 
atrocious acts of terrorism have introduced fear into the 
daily lives of so many across the globe.
In the Middle East we see the terrible consequences 
of the spiral of war: many lives destroyed, failed States, 
collapsed  ceasefires,  unsuccessful  peace  initiatives 
and failed attempts to resolve the fundamental causes 
of  conflict  in  Syria,  Iraq  and  Libya,  find  a  solution 
to  the  presidency  crisis  in  Lebanon,  or  resolve  the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict. That persistent failure has 
dampened the hopes and promises of all who consider 
the region sacred and holy.
We  can  also  witness  those  failures  in  the  long-
standing conflicts that continue to oppress and take the 
lives of so many in South Sudan, the Great Lakes and 
for two and half years now in eastern Ukraine. Although 
those situations have all been high-profile and have led 
to an immense amount of human suffering, we remain 
very far from resolving the root causes. It almost seems 
that we have accepted conflict, war and terrorism as a 
part of normal life.
Beyond  the  urgency  of  the  need  for  ceasefires, 
respect for the dignity and the rights of affected peoples 
and access to humanitarian aid, it is also necessary to 
facilitate negotiation among those with direct or indirect 
responsibility for particular conflicts. Thankful for the 
positive  outcome  in  Colombia,  the  heartfelt  hope  of 
the Holy See is that, through facilitation efforts on the 
part of the international community, various forms of 
contact and dialogue will be pursued to resolve ongoing 
conflicts.
16-29553
45/46
A/71/PV.14 
22/09/2016
In  particular,  from  the  beginning  of  the  conflict 
in Syria, the Holy See has invited all of the parties to 
dialogue and the international community to spare no 
effort in facilitating an end to violence and in promoting 
conditions conducive to a dialogue aimed at finding a 
political solution. Syria, however, has been overrun by 
all  kinds  of  armed  groups.  The  uproar  of  arms  must 
cease  so  that  peace  may  stand  a  chance  and,  above 
all, so that humanitarian assistance may be brought to 
those most in need. The Holy See is convinced that this 
is  possible,  provided  that  there  is  the  political  will  to 
bring an end to the fighting.
Despite  the  present  difficulties,  one  can  still 
gratefully find in Lebanon the conviction that common 
good requires the participation and cooperation of all 
sectors  of  society,  based  on  the  rule  of  law  and  the 
idea  that  institutions  are  founded  on  respect  for  the 
innate  dignity  of  every  human  being.  The  Lebanese 
constitutional  arrangement,  in  which  diverse  ethnic 
groups, cultures and religions are an asset and contribute 
to  a  peaceful  coexistence,  can  also  be  a  model  for  a 
political solution in the region.
The Holy See also believes that in the Middle East 
a renewed commitment in favour of the rule of law and 
the freedom of religion and of conscience is the most 
effective  way  to  safeguard  the  dignity  of  all.  In  that 
context, the 2015 global agreement signed by the Holy 
See and Palestine, which was subsequently ratified by 
both parties, sets out in law defence of the most basic 
human rights, among which are freedom of religion, the 
right to peaceful assembly and the freedom to publicly 
profess one’s religious beliefs. In the complex situation 
of the Middle East, in particular in Iraq and Syria, the 
Holy  See  maintains  that  the  global  agreement  with 
Palestine  can  serve  as  a  template  for  other  countries 
with analogous social structures.
In  the  context  of  the  renewed  efforts  to  relaunch 
the peace process between Israelis and Palestinians, the 
Holy  See  renews  its  appeal  to  both  parties  to  abstain 
from  any  unilateral  or  illegal  measures  whatsoever, 
which  may  constitute  an  obstacle  to  the  search  for 
peace and advancing the two-State solution.
When  we  look  at  the  phenomenon  of  forced 
migration,  we  find  ourselves  before  a  population  of 
people  on  the  move  greater  than  that  of  many  of  the 
States  represented  here:  65  million  people  have  been 
compelled  to  flee  from  their  homes  and  communities 
because  of  persecution,  conflict,  widespread  violence 
and  hunger,  and  devastated  lands.  A  word  of  praise 
must  go  to  Lebanon  and  to  Jordan  for  the  hospitality 
they  are  offering  to  all  who  have  escaped  from  war 
and destruction in Iraq and Syria, as well as to Turkey, 
which is hosting millions of Syrian refugees.
Beyond the necessary urgent consideration of how 
to  resolve  the  causes  of  that  forced  exodus,  we  must 
note that migration and development are tightly linked. 
The  consequences  of  the  mass  movement  of  refugees 
and  migrants  threaten  to  weaken  our  commitment 
to  the  values  of  solidarity  and  hospitality  towards 
those  in  need.  Those  values  stand  at  the  heart  of  the 
Extraordinary Jubilee of Mercy to which Pope Francis 
has  been  summoning  the  world.  As  Pope  Francis  has 
emphasized, 
“[m]ercy is the fundamental law that dwells in the 
heart of every person who looks sincerely into the 
eyes of his brothers and sisters on the path of life”, 
especially  those  who  are  the  weakest  and  most 
vulnerable. Drawing special attention to those who are 
in prison, the Pope has renewed his pressing appeal 
“to  the  consciences  of  leaders,  that  they  come  to 
an international consensus aimed at abolishing the 
death penalty”.
Without authentic and absolute respect for life, there 
can be no development that is truly human, integral and 
sustainable. Precisely to foster that development, Pope 
Francis has instituted a new dicastery, or department, 
of  the  Holy  See,  the  purpose  of  which  is  to  promote 
justice, peace, the safeguarding of the environment and 
care of those most in need. The poor and needy are the 
human face of sustainable development that we wish to 
keep ever before us, so that we may become responsible 
agents of a more just and truly human society.
The meeting rose at 2.50 p.m. 
46/46 
16-29553
