United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
36th plenary meeting
Friday, 28 October 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.36
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Tribute to the memory of His Majesty King 
Bhumibol Adulyadej, late King of Thailand
The President: It is my sad duty to pay tribute to the 
memory of the late King of Thailand, His Majesty King 
Bhumibol  Adulyadej,  who  passed  away  on  Thursday, 
13  October.  On  behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I 
would like to request the representative of Thailand to 
convey our condolences to the Government and people 
of Thailand and to the bereaved family of His Majesty 
the King.
His  late  Majesty  the  King  reigned  for  70  years, 
making  him  one  of  the  longest  serving  monarchs 
in  human  history.  He  was  revered  by  his  people  and 
admired  throughout  the  world  for  his  grace,  dignity 
and  humility  and  his  steadfast  dedication  to  his 
country  and  people.  At  his  coronation,  he  declared 
“we shall reign with righteousness for the benefits and 
happiness of the Siamese people.” It was a commitment 
he  worked  tirelessly  to  fulfil  throughout  his  life.  The 
King  was  beloved  as  the  people’s  King,  and,  through 
the thousands of development projects he initiated over 
his  lifetime,  he  oversaw  a  period  of  profound  social, 
economic  and  development  transformation  across  the 
country,  significantly  improving  the  livelihoods  and 
well-being of the Thai people.
The  King  was  also  a  force  for  peace  and  unity 
within Thailand and the broader region and was a strong 
supporter of the multilateral system. His achievements 
throughout  his  life  led  to  numerous  awards  from  the 
United  Nations  and  beyond,  including  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme’s 
first  Human 
Development Lifetime Achievement Award in 2006.
The King was also a committed environmentalist. 
He played a leading role in the promotion of soil science 
and conservation and was a leader in sustainable land 
resource  management.  Under  the  King’s  leadership, 
Thailand raised global awareness of the importance of 
soil as a resource for poverty reduction, climate change 
adaptation,  sustainable  development  and  security.  In 
2013,  the  General  Assembly  recognized  those  efforts 
by designating 5 December, the same date as the King’s 
birthday,  as  World  Soil  Day,  as  well  as  2015  as  the 
International Year of Soils.
His Majesty was one of the most venerated global 
leaders of our time. His profound legacy to the people 
and  nation  of  Thailand  and  the  world  at  large  will 
always  be  remembered.  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  extend  our  most  sincere  condolences  to 
the  Government,  the  royal  family  and  the  people  of 
Thailand as we mourn His Majesty the King’s passing. 
Our hearts and thoughts are with the people of Thailand 
at this time.
I  now  request  the  General  Assembly  to  rise  and 
observe a minute of silence in memory of the late King.
The  members  of  the  Assembly  observed  a  minute 
of silence.
The  President:  It  is  now  my  honour  to  give  the 
floor to the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-34852 (E)
*1634852*
A/71/PV.36 
28/10/2016
The  Secretary-General:  We  come  together  to 
pay tribute to the life and legacy of His Majesty King 
Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand, the world’s longest-
reigning monarch. On behalf of the United Nations, I 
once  again  express  our  most  profound  condolences 
to  Her  Majesty  Queen  Sirikit,  the  royal  family,  the 
Government of Thailand and the Thai people.
 A visionary and a humanitarian, King Bhumibol 
was  loved  and  revered  by  the  people  of  Thailand  and 
respected around the world. I had the honour of meeting 
King Bhumibol during a visit to Thailand in 2007. I had 
long admired his dedication to improving his country 
and the lives of its people, particularly those that were 
most vulnerable. Over seven decades, King Bhumibol 
served as a stabilizing force in Thailand, notably during 
times of political turmoil and tension. The outpouring 
of grief from the Thai people on his passing is testimony 
to the King’s tremendous influence across the country 
and a recognition of his lifelong work to better the lives 
of his people.
King  Bhumibol’s  commitment 
to  sustainable 
development and national resilience helped to move the 
country through its various phases of development and 
towards becoming a vibrant economy. In recognition of 
his work, King Bhumibol was awarded the first United 
Nations Development Programme Human Development 
Lifetime Achievement Award in 2006.
The United Nations recognizes and pays tribute to 
the  remarkable  life  that  His  Majesty  King  Bhumibol 
led and joins all those who loved and revered the King 
in  offering  heartfelt  condolences.  In  the  spirit  of  the 
late King, the United Nations looks forward to further 
strengthening  the  partnership  with  the  Royal  Thai 
Government  and  the  people  of  Thailand  in  order  to 
advance  democracy,  development,  peace  and  human 
rights for all.
The President: I give the floor to the representative 
of Georgia, who will speak on behalf of the Group of 
Eastern European States.
Mr. Imnadze (Georgia): It is with great sadness that 
we have learned about the passing away of His Majesty 
King  Bhumibol  Adulyadej  of  Thailand.  On  behalf  of 
the members of the Group of Eastern European States, 
I would like to express our deepest condolences to the 
royal family and to the Thai people.
It is painful to lose a leader who cared so deeply 
about  his  country,  the  world  and  humankind.  His 
Majesty worked tirelessly for rising prosperity and the 
development of Thailand, skilfully steering the country 
through difficult times, He was a King who was loved 
by  his  people  and  deeply  revered  internationally,  a 
true leader who inspired his own nation and the rest of 
the  world.  As  an  advocate  for  education  and  building 
bridges between nations, King Bhumibol inspired and 
encouraged  people  to  strive  for  peace  and  prosperity. 
As he wisely noted,
“a good person can make another person good; it 
means  that  goodness  will  elicit  goodness  in  the 
society; other persons will also be good”.
His  Majesty  King  Bhumibol  will  always  be 
remembered  for  his  outstanding  leadership  and  his 
dedicated service to his country. His achievements as 
the  “development  king”,  who  made  an  extraordinary 
contribution  to  human  development,  is  cherished 
worldwide.  As 
former  Secretary-General  Kofi 
Annan  stated  while  presenting  him  with  the  first 
Human  Development  Lifetime  Achievement  from  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  in  2006, 
“As  a  visionary  thinker,  [His]  Majesty  has  played  an 
invaluable  role  in  shaping  the  global  development 
dialogue”.
Let us also recall the unique talents and passion of 
the King, who, as a musician and a composer, used music 
as a bridge to build communications, relationships and 
friendship.  The  leadership,  courage  and  wisdom  of 
King Bhumibol will be missed. In this time of grief and 
sorrow,  our  thoughts  and  prayers  are  with  his  family 
and the people of Thailand.
The President: I give the floor to the representative 
of Chile, who will speak on behalf of the Group of Latin 
American and Caribbean States.
Mr. Barros Melet (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): It is 
an honour for me, on this sad occasion, to pay tribute 
to  the  life  of  His  Majesty  Bhumibol  Adulyadej,  King 
of Thailand, on behalf of the Group of Latin American 
and Caribbean States.
From the time he ascended the throne, in 1946, His 
Majesty  King  Bhumibol  was  able  to  win  the  respect 
and  admiration  of  the  people  of  Thailand,  whose 
well-being  and  progress  were  his  constant  concern. 
During  his  reign,  he  worked  tirelessly  to  improve  the 
lives  of  all  his  people.  His  Majesty’s  commitment  to 
placing  his  people  and  their  well-being  at  the  centre 
of development was recognized by the United Nations 
2/8 
16-34852
28/10/2016 
A/71/PV.36
system when he was awarded the first United Nations 
Development 
Programme  Human  Development 
Lifetime Achievement Award in 2006, as mentioned by 
the Secretary-General in his statement on the passing 
of His Majesty.
During  his  seven-decade  reign,  His  Majesty  bore 
witness  to  and  participated  in  profound  political, 
economic and social transformations in his country, the 
region  and  the  world,  emerging  as  an  internationally 
recognized  figure.  We  recall  his  commitment  to  the 
unity of Thailand and will remember him as a unifying 
national  leader.  The  member  States  of  the  Latin 
American and Caribbean Group join in the mourning 
and  the  deep  feelings  of  sadness  on  the  passing  of 
His Majesty. We extend our heartfelt condolences and 
sympathy  to  the  royal  family  and  to  the  Government 
and people of Thailand.
The President: I give the floor to the representative 
of the Niger, who will speak on behalf of the Group of 
African States.
Mr. Wafy (Niger): I have the honour to speak on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States  to  pay  tribute 
to  the  late  King  Bhumibol  Adulyadej  of  Thailand. 
We  would  like  to  express  our  deepest  condolences  to 
the  royal  family,  the  Government  and  people  of  the 
Kingdom of Thailand.
His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej stood as a 
pillar of Thailand’s unity and dedicated himself to the 
benefit and happiness of the Thai people. He was the 
leading  and  guiding  spirit  behind  much  of  Thailand’s 
remarkable  socioeconomic  development  over  past 
decades.  During  his  70-year  reign,  His  Majesty’s 
ingenuity manifested itself in more than 4,000 royally 
initiated  projects,  from  irrigation  to  flood  alleviation 
and from public health to education. His Majesty’s self-
sufficient  economic  philosophy  —  the  epitome  of  his 
lifelong  development  experiences  —  has  been  widely 
shared  beyond  national  boundaries  as  a  homegrown 
approach  to  achieving  sustainable  development.  This 
loss is not only a loss for Thailand, but also a loss for 
the world.
His  Majesty  King  Bhumibol  Adulyadej  will  be 
remembered  and  revered  as  the  “development  king”. 
The African Group is confident that the legacy of the 
late  King  will  continue  to  inspire  the  people  of  the 
Kingdom of Thailand and the international community, 
particularly 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals. May His Majesty rest in peace.
their  pursuit  of 
in 
The President: I give the floor to the representative 
of  Kuwait,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
Asian and Pacific States.
Mr. Marafi (Kuwait): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the Group of Asian and Pacific States to 
pay tribute to and honour the memory of His Majesty 
King Bhumibol Adulyadej of the Kingdom of Thailand 
at this gathering of the General Assembly. The Group 
would  like  to  express  its  most  sincere  and  heartfelt 
condolences  to  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Thailand,  who  were  blessed  with 
His  Majesty’s  leadership  for  over  70  years.  He  was 
their  longest-serving  monarch  until  his  passing  on 
13 October.
His Majesty was cherished in his beloved Thailand, 
unifying  the  country  throughout  many  difficult  and 
trying  times.  Known  as  a  compassionate  King,  he 
was  a  peacemaker  who  encouraged  dialogue  over 
conflict and maintained the utmost respect throughout 
his  reign.  He  saw  his  country  flourish  and  become  a 
regional  leader  and  one  of  the  largest  economies  in 
South-East  Asia.  His  love  for  Thailand  was  reflected 
in  his  commitment  to  and  advocacy  for  economic, 
social and sustainable development for his country and 
his people. His tireless work and contributions earned 
him the recognition of the United Nations Development 
Programme in their first Human Development Lifetime 
Achievement Award.
A  great  statesman,  whom  we  shall  all  miss,  has 
passed.  A  monarch  of  unwavering  integrity,  abiding 
humility  and  steadfast  service  to  his  people,  His 
Majesty  was  truly  revered  by  all.  Thailand’s  loss  is  a 
loss for all of the region and the world. Once again, the 
Group of Asian and Pacific States offers its most sincere 
sympathy to the royal family, the Government and the 
people  of  Thailand  as  they  mourn  the  loss  of  their 
extraordinary leader. May his soul rest in eternal peace.
The President: I give the floor to the representative 
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
Western European and other States.
Mr. Rycroft (United Kingdom): I have the honour 
to speak on behalf of the Group of Western European 
and other States. On behalf of the Group, I wish to offer 
our sincere condolences to the royal family and people 
of Thailand on the death of His Majesty King Bhumibol 
Adulyadej earlier this month.
16-34852
3/8
A/71/PV.36 
28/10/2016
His  Majesty  guided  the  Kingdom  of  Thailand 
with  dignity,  dedication  and  vision  throughout  his 
remarkable 70 years on the throne. He was the longest-
serving monarch in the world at the time of his passing. 
As I stand in this Hall, I am astonished to realize that His 
Majesty ascended the throne when the United Nations 
was only a year old, with Thailand becoming its fifty-
fifth  Member  State.  He  was  the  embodiment  of  the 
post-war generation with its hopes and dreams of global 
peace, development and universal human rights. From 
that same vision, the Charter of the United Nations was 
born. The challenges faced by His Majesty during his 
long  reign  echoed  those  that  faced  all  Member  States 
in this Organization. It is difficult to select highlights 
from such a long and rich history of service to the Thai 
people, but I will make three observations.
First, His Majesty will be remembered for serving 
the  needs  of  his  people.  His  Majesty  spent  years  of 
his  reign  touring  Thailand’s  agricultural  provinces, 
meeting local people, visiting rural projects and asking 
local  leaders  about  the  challenges  of  their  lives.  His 
Majesty  led  development  programmes  in  the  poorest 
parts  of  the  country  and  was  a  keen  supporter  of 
advanced agriculture and sustainable development. The 
mark of that work can be seen across Thailand today.
an important occasion. On behalf of the United States 
of  America,  I  wish  to  convey  our  deepest  and  most 
heartfelt  condolences  to  Her  Majesty  Queen  Sirikit, 
her  children  and  grandchildren  and  to  the  people  of 
Thailand on the passing of His Majesty King Bhumibol 
Adulyadej.
His  Majesty  was  not  only  a  lifelong  friend  and 
partner  of  the  United  States  of  America,  he  also  had 
deep  personal  ties  to  our  nation.  The  King’s  parents 
met  in  Cambridge,  Massachusetts,  where  both  were 
studying  medicine  —  his  father  at  Harvard  and  his 
mother  at  Simmons  College.  His  Majesty  only  lived 
there as an infant, but his presence is still very much 
felt in Cambridge. I can speak with a bit of authority 
on  this  subject,  because  before  I  had  the  privilege  of 
serving in the Obama Administration, I was a professor 
in  Cambridge  at  Harvard’s  Kennedy  School  of 
Government. My walk to and from campus often took 
me  through  King  Bhumibol  Adulyadej  Square,  which 
is  adjacent  to  the  Kennedy  School  and  was  named  in 
honour  of  his  birth.  Walking  through  King  Bhumibol 
Adulyadej  Square,  it  is  not  uncommon  to  see  Thai 
people, who have come to pay homage to His Majesty, 
taking photographs next to the plaque bearing his name 
in the Square.
His  Majesty  was  also  a  talented  musician  and 
patron  of  the  arts.  He  was  an  accomplished  painter, 
photographer,  composer  and  saxophonist.  For  many 
years, His Majesty broadcast a live music concert for 
his people, performing with a jazz group in the studios 
of the royal radio station.
There are several places like that in Cambridge. In 
the nearby Brigham and Women’s Hospital, where His 
Majesty’s  mother  once  worked,  hardly  a  day  goes  by 
when Thai visitors do not come bearing gifts, flowers 
or small handwritten notes. That is the kind of devotion 
His Majesty inspired in the Thai people.
Finally,  His  Majesty  will  be  remembered  for  his 
unwavering  dedication  to  the  Thai  people.  He  was 
greatly respected at home and around the globe for his 
dedication  to  his  people  and  Government.  He  was  a 
welcome symbol of stability for his nation through both 
good and more challenging times.
His Majesty leaves a lasting legacy and a true mark 
on history. We join the people of Thailand in mourning 
his passing.
The President: I give the floor to the representative 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  who  will  speak  on 
behalf of the host country.
Ms.  Power  (United  States  of  America):  Today 
is  one  of  the  many  days  that  I  feel  very  privileged  to 
represent the host country of the United Nations so as 
to  have  the  chance  to  address  those  present  on  such 
Nearly  two  decades  ago,  a  journalist  asked  the 
King  how  he  wanted  to  be  remembered.  He  replied 
that he cared very little about how history remembered 
him.  He  said,  “If  they  want  to  write  about  me  in  a 
good  way,  they  should  write  how  I  do  things  that  are 
useful”.  In  the  eyes  of  His  Majesty,  doing  things  that 
were useful meant finding a way to solve problems that 
affected  real  people,  most  importantly  the  vulnerable 
and marginalized people. 
As  the  King  saw  it,  the  only  way  to  know  what 
was useful and to understand the problems people were 
facing  was  to  get  out  into  the  field,  into  the  places 
where  people  lived.  So  the  King  travelled  constantly 
within his country, in particular to the poor and rural 
parts,  where  over  the  course  of  his  tenure,  he  would 
develop thousands of development projects. But it was 
not only that His Majesty went to those places — we 
4/8 
16-34852
28/10/2016 
A/71/PV.36
see leaders do that a fair amount — it was also how he 
went. He made a point of meeting directly with locals, 
whether  fishermen,  rubber  planters,  rice  farmers  or 
primary  school  students.  When  he  met  with  officials, 
he would choose those working at the grass-roots level: 
agronomists, school teachers, policemen.
His  Majesty  was  more  than  just  a  keen  observer. 
Being  useful  meant  helping  fix  the  problems  that  he 
encountered  and  empowering  the  Thai  people  to  do 
the same. He had a mind that was at once kinetic and 
deliberate,  creative,  as  we  have  heard,  and  scientific. 
Over  the  course  of  his  life,  he  registered  nearly  40 
patents  and  trademarks,  often  for  inventions  that  he 
built, tested and modified himself, most of which aimed 
at tackling everyday problems faced by the poor. That 
is completely extraordinary.
Take  the  invention  nicknamed  the  “Monkey’s 
Cheeks”,  which  he  designed  to  address  the  perennial 
floods 
that  Thailand  experiences.  His  Majesty 
remembered seeing as a child the way monkeys would 
store chewed bananas in their cheeks so that they could 
eat them later, and he built a system of small reservoirs 
that  worked  using  a  similar  principle,  storing  excess 
water  during  heavy  rains  that  could  be  used  later  for 
irrigation. The system of the Monkey’s Cheeks is still 
being used across Thailand today. Many of the King’s 
inventions fit this pattern, merging conservation with 
human  development.  He  was  decades  ahead  of  the 
curve  in  recognizing  that  what  was  environmentally 
sustainable  was  crucial 
long-term  health 
of communities.
the 
to 
In June 1960, His Majesty returned to the United 
States at the invitation of President Dwight Eisenhower. 
He was asked to address a joint session of the United 
States  Congress.  He  was  just  32  years  old.  Speaking 
to Congress, His Majesty said that he had accepted the 
invitation in part because of what he called “the natural 
human desire to see my birthplace”, Cambridge, which 
he returned to on that trip. But he also came, he said, to 
affirm  our  two  nations’  unique  friendship  and  shared 
values. As he put it, the friendship of one Government 
with another is an important thing, but it is the friendship 
of  one  people  for  another  that  assuredly  guarantees 
peace  and  progress.  His  Majesty  told  members  of  the 
United  States  Congress  that  one  tradition  was  valued 
above all others by the Thai people — the commitment 
to family. He said:
“The members of a family are expected to help one 
another  whenever  there  is  a  need  for  assistance. 
The  giving  of  aid  is  a  merit  in  itself.  The  giver 
does not expect others to sing his praises everyday, 
nor  does  he  expect  any  return.  The  receiver  is 
nevertheless grateful. He, too, in his turn will carry 
out his obligations.”
The  King  was  speaking  about  the  bonds  and 
generosity among the members of Thai families. But in 
retrospect, his words can just as easily be applied to the 
way that he lived his life, a life of always looking for 
ways to be useful to those in need, a life of giving and 
of serving every single day, not to earn praise, not to get 
something in return, but rather because that is what one 
does  for  one’s  family.  His  Majesty  considered  all  the 
people of Thailand to be his family. How fortunate the 
Thai people were to have had His Majesty as a member 
of their family, and how fortunate we are to be able to 
learn from the way that this remarkable king chose to 
live his life.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  the  Permanent 
Representative of Thailand.
Mr.  Plasai  (Thailand):  Allow  me  to  first  express 
my  sincere  appreciation  to  you,  Mr.  President,  for 
organizing today’s meeting to pay tribute to His Majesty 
King  Bhumibol  Adulyadej  and  for  your  statement 
of  condolences.  We  also  deeply  appreciate  the  kind 
and  touching  statements  made  by  His  Excellency  the 
Secretary-General,  the  Chairs  of  the  regional  groups 
and the Permanent Representative of the United States 
of America, our host country.
His  Majesty  King  Bhumibol  Adulyadej  was  the 
guiding light of Thailand. Through the many crises and 
challenges the Kingdom had to face in the past seven 
decades, His Majesty was always there for his people, 
giving them resolve, resilience and, most important of 
all, direction. He was a symbol of our national unity, 
sustaining the Kingdom’s cultural and social integrity, 
providing spiritual and material foundations on which 
Thai people from all walks of life built their livelihoods.
From  the  early  years  of  his  reign,  His  Majesty 
had  this  vision  of  people-centred  development.  His 
Majesty  reached  out  with  the  aim  of  leaving  no  one 
behind.  Through  more  than  4,000  royal  development 
projects,  His  Majesty  empowered  the  poorest  and 
the  most  vulnerable,  improved  livelihoods,  provided 
opportunities  for  the  people  to  prosper  and  promoted 
a  peaceful  society  that  was  and  is  mindful  of  the 
16-34852
5/8
A/71/PV.36 
28/10/2016
environment.  His  Majesty  showed 
the  way  for 
transforming  the  Kingdom  from  what  was  commonly 
called  an  underdeveloped  country  into  the  upper 
middle-income country it is now.
His Majesty Bhumibol Adulyadej was no stranger to 
the United Nations. Twice in the 1960s he made official 
visits  to  United  Nations  Headquarters,  here  in  New 
York, and shared with the Secretary-General his insights 
into  tackling  pressing  global  issues.  His  Majesty’s 
pioneering  work  on  crop  substitution  and  integrated 
rural development, started in the early 1960s, has over 
the years been praised by the United Nations Office on 
Drugs  and  Crime  as  an  effective  means  to  eradicate 
illicit  drug  production.  The  work  has  developed  into 
the  now  globally  recognized  concept  of  alternative 
development,  which  has  successfully  turned  opium 
poppy fields in many countries around the world into 
horticultural plantations and handicraft and vocational 
training centres or even into tourist attractions.
The  United  Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies 
on  numerous  occasions  recognized  His  Majesty’s 
role  as  a  development  king  through  his  contribution 
to  improving  people’s  lives,  rural  development,  food 
security  and  his  life-long  dedication  to  the  cause  of 
sustainable  development.  His  Majesty  was  presented 
with the Agricola Medal of the Food and Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  in  1995,  a  United 
Nations  Habitat  Scroll  of  Honour  Award  (Special 
Citation)  in  2003,  the  first  ever  United  Nations 
Development 
Programme  Human  Development 
Lifetime  Achievement  Award  in  2006  and  the  World 
Intellectual  Property  Organization’s  Global  Leader 
Award  in  2009.  In  recognition  of  his  research  and 
development  work  on  soils,  His  Majesty’s  birthday, 
5  December,  was  designated  World  Soil  Day  by  the 
General Assembly in 2014.
His  Majesty’s  countless  efforts  in  working  for 
decades  at  the  grass-roots  level,  side  by  side  with 
farmers  and  communities,  on  thousands  of  royal 
development  projects 
throughout  Thailand  have 
crystallized into what is now known as the sufficiency 
economy  philosophy.  That  gift  of  His  Majesty  to  the 
Thai people advocates moderation, reasonableness and 
prudence based on knowledge and virtues as a way of 
life and a decision-making framework. Acknowledged 
as  a  practical  approach  to  achieving  sustainable 
development,  the  philosophy  has  been  successfully 
practised in Thailand and in many other countries, in 
the agricultural and business sectors and also in public 
administration. We are proud to have been able to share 
His Majesty’s gift with our friends here at the United 
Nations over the years.
(spoke in French)
We are confident that the great legacy left by His 
Majesty  King  Bhumibol,  in  particular  the  sufficiency 
economy  philosophy,  will  continue  to  guide  both 
Thailand and our friends in our common quest to attain 
the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. On behalf 
of  the  Thai  people  and  the  Royal  Thai  Government, 
I  would  once  again  like  to  convey  our  most  sincere 
appreciation for the messages of condolence delivered 
during this sad period.
Agenda item 114
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and 
other elections
(d) Election of fourteen members of the Human 
Rights Council
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now 
turn to the election of 14 members of the Human Rights 
Council to replace those members whose term of office 
expires on 31 December 2016.
The  14  outgoing  members  are  Algeria,  China, 
Cuba,  France,  Maldives,  Mexico,  Morocco,  Namibia, 
the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  the  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland  and 
Viet Nam.
In  accordance  with  operative  paragraph  7  of 
resolution  60/251,  of  15  March  2006,  these  Member 
States  are  eligible  for  immediate  re-election,  except 
the delegation that has served two consecutive terms, 
namely, Maldives.
The 14 vacant seats should be distributed among the 
regional groups as follows: four seats for the Group of 
African States, four seats for the Group of Asia-Pacific 
States,  two  seats  for  the  Group  of  Eastern  European 
States,  two  seats  for  the  Group  of  Latin  American 
and Caribbean States, and two seats for the Group of 
Western European and other States.
In accordance with resolution 60/251, membership 
of the Council shall be open to all States Members of 
the  United  Nations,  and  the  members  of  the  Council 
shall serve for a period of three years. The members of 
the Council shall be elected directly and individually, 
6/8 
16-34852
28/10/2016 
A/71/PV.36
by secret ballot, by the majority of the members of the 
General Assembly. Accordingly, 97 votes constitute a 
majority in the Assembly, which has a membership of 
193 States.
shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order 
on the actual conduct of the voting. In addition, ballot 
papers will only be given to the representative seated 
directly behind the country’s nameplate.
The following States will continue to be members 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council:  Albania,  Bangladesh, 
Belgium, the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Botswana, 
Burundi, the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Ecuador, El Salvador, 
Ethiopia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, India, Indonesia, 
Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Mongolia, the Netherlands, 
Nigeria, Panama, Paraguay, the Philippines, Portugal, 
Qatar,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  Slovenia,  Switzerland, 
Togo,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela.  The  names  of  these  States, 
therefore, should not appear on the ballot papers.
Consistent  with 
The  election  will  be  held  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant rules of procedure of the General Assembly on 
elections. For this election, rules 92 and 94 of the rules 
of procedure of the General Assembly shall be applied.
the  General 
Assembly, if more than the required number of Member 
States  have  obtained  the  votes  of  the  majority  of  the 
members  of  the  Assembly  on  the  same  ballot,  those 
Member  States  that  have  obtained  the  largest  number 
of votes above the required majority will be considered 
elected, up to the number of seats to be filled.
the  practice  of 
Also,  consistent  with  past  practice,  when,  in  the 
case of a tied vote, it becomes necessary to determine 
the candidate to be elected or that will proceed to the 
next round of restricted balloting, there will be a special 
restricted  ballot  limited  to  those  candidates  that  have 
obtained an equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
these procedures?
It was so decided.
The President: Accordingly, the election shall be 
held by secret ballot and there will be no nominations.
I have been informed by the secretariat that, when 
received before the election, the voluntary pledges and 
commitments  made  by  Member  States  in  accordance 
with  paragraph  8  of  resolution  60/251  were  issued  as 
official  documents  of  the  seventy-first  session  of  the 
General Assembly.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that, pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly, no representative 
I  should  like  to  seek  the  usual  cooperation  of 
representatives  during  the  time  when  the  General 
Assembly is conducting the elections. Please be reminded 
that during the voting procedure all campaigning should 
cease in the General Assembly Hall. This means that, 
once the voting has begun, no more campaign material 
may be distributed inside the Hall. All representatives 
are requested to remain at their seats so that the voting 
process can proceed in an orderly manner. I should also 
like  to  remind  delegations  to  refrain  from  extending 
congratulations in the General Assembly Hall after the 
announcement of the elected members. Their doing so 
is disruptive to the distribution of ballot papers for any 
subsequent rounds of balloting.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot 
papers marked “A”, “B”, “C”, “D” and “E” will now be 
distributed. Each ballot paper is assigned to one of the 
five regional groups and has the corresponding number 
of blank lines for the seats assigned to that region.
I  request  representatives  to  use  only  these  ballot 
papers  and  to  write  on  them  the  names  of  the  States 
for which they wish to vote. A ballot paper containing 
more names than the number of seats assigned to it will 
be declared invalid. A ballot paper will also be declared 
invalid if none of the names of the Member States on 
that ballot belongs to the relevant region. If the ballot 
paper of a region contains the names of both Member 
States that belong to the region and Member States that 
are from outside it, the ballot remains valid but only the 
names of the Member States that belong to the region 
will be counted. If a ballot paper contains the names of 
Member  States  that  are  not  eligible  for  re-election  or 
that  are  currently  members  of  the  Council,  the  ballot 
remains valid but those names will not be counted.
of 
the 
the 
invitation 
At 
President, 
Ms.  Wanner  (Austria),  Ms.  Kanchaveli  (Georgia), 
Ms. Bailey (Jamaica), Mr. Said (Libya), Mr. Quintus 
(Luxembourg)  and  Mr.  Rosdi  (Malaysia)  acted 
as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The meeting was suspended at 11 a.m. and resumed 
at 12.40 p.m.
16-34852
7/8
A/71/PV.36 
The President: The result of the voting is as follows:
Group A — African States (4 seats)
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
Tunisia  
South Africa  
Rwanda  
Egypt  
Morocco  
Mauritius  
Senegal  
Sierra Leone  
Group B — Asia-Pacific States (4 seats)
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting:  
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
China  
Japan  
Iraq  
Saudi Arabia  
Malaysia  
Fiji  
Islamic Republic of Iran  
193
0
193
0
193
97
189
178
176
173
2
1
1
1
193
0
193
 0
193
97
180
177
173
152
10
6
1
Group C — Eastern European States (2 seats)
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
Hungary  
Croatia  
Russian Federation  
Bulgaria  
(2 seats)
Group D — Latin American and Caribbean States 
Number of ballot papers:  
193
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
Cuba  
Brazil 
Guatemala  
28/10/2016
1
192
0
192
97
160
137
82
Group  E  —  Western  European  and  other  States 
(2 seats)
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
United States of America  
United Kingdom  
France  
Greece  
Spain 
Canada  
Israel  
Italy  
Liechtenstein  
Sweden  
193
0
193
10
183
97
175
173
2
2
 2
1
1
1
1
1
Having  obtained  the  required  majority  and  the 
largest  number  of  votes  of  the  members  of  the 
General  Assembly,  the  following  14  States  were 
elected members of the Human Rights Council for 
a three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 
2017:  Brazil,  China,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Egypt, 
Hungary,  Iraq,  Japan,  Rwanda,  Saudi  Arabia, 
South Africa, Tunisia, the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States 
of America.
The  President:  I  congratulate  those  States  that 
have  been  elected  members  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council, and I thank the tellers for their assistance in 
this election.
The Assembly has thus concluded its consideration 
of sub-item (d) of agenda item 114.
The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.
193
1
192
0
192
97
144
114
112
1
8/8 
16-34852
