United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
39th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 2 November 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.39
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 13 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
  Plenary meeting to discuss action-oriented 
recommendations to address the socioeconomic 
and environmental impacts of the 2015/16 El 
Niño phenomenon
The  President:  Since 
the  General  Assembly 
adopted  resolution  70/110,  on  the  global  impacts  of 
the  2015/16  El  Niño  phenomenon  last  December,  the 
lives of over 60 million people across our world have 
suffered  the  devastating  impact  of  El  Niño.  Extreme 
droughts across Southern Africa have caused massive 
crop  failures,  leaving  millions  of  people  without 
enough  food.  Catastrophic  hurricanes  have  moved 
across  the  Caribbean,  devastating  tropical  cyclones 
have  battered  the  Pacific  and  South-East  Asia,  and, 
in  Ecuador,  widespread  flooding  and  landslides  have 
struck communities.
The  El  Niño  phenomenon  has  severely  disrupted 
global  rainfall  patterns,  leading  to  both  disastrous 
flooding  and  prolonged  droughts.  The  compounding 
effects  of  climate  change  and  El  Niño  have  seen  an 
increase  in  the  intensity,  frequency  and  variability  of 
extreme  weather  events,  hitting  those  countries  least 
responsible  for  climate  change  first  and  hardest.  It  is 
predicted that these extreme weather events will worsen 
in future.
The  humanitarian 
impacts  of  El  Niño  have 
been  profound,  creating  massive  need  across  our 
world,  increasing  food  insecurity  and  malnutrition, 
exacerbating  outbreaks  of  infectious  respiratory  and 
waterborne  diseases,  disrupting  health  and  education 
services, upending livelihoods and forcibly displacing 
people  and  communities.  Meanwhile,  the  prospects 
for  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  in 
countries  affected  by  the  El  Niño  phenomenon  are 
being undermined.
Urgent action is required. Comprehensive, long-term 
strategies are needed to build early-warning systems, to 
strengthen the resilience of vulnerable countries, and to 
prevent, mitigate and repair the adverse socioeconomic 
and  environmental  impacts.  Humanitarian  responses 
need  to  be  scaled  up  with  financial,  technical  and 
capacity-building  support  provided  to  countries  and 
people in need. Greater collaboration and information 
exchange is required, including through the collection 
and  sharing  of  timely  and  accurate  data  between 
relevant institutions and networks.
Importantly, global awareness and an understanding 
of El Niño and climate change are also essential. To this 
end, I commend the Secretary-General for his prescient 
decision earlier this year to appoint the former President 
of  Ireland,  Mrs.  Mary  Robinson,  and  the  Permanent 
Representative of Kenya, Mr. Macharia Kamau, as his 
Special  Envoys  for  El  Niño  and  Climate,  and  to  give 
them  the  task  of  bringing  the  message  to  the  world. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-35686 (E)
*1635686*
A/71/PV.39 
02/11/2016
The  Special  Envoys  are  already  having  an  impact, 
travelling to El Niño-affected communities in Ethiopia, 
Mozambique,  Papua  New  Guinea  and  Timor-Leste  in 
order to understand and raise awareness of challenges 
and priorities.
As  has  been  said,  more  than  60  million  people 
around our world are affected by severe El Niño-linked 
weather  events.  As  a  recurring  global  phenomenon, 
rather  than  a  one-off  event,  addressing  the  impacts 
of  El  Niño  requires  a  comprehensive  and  coordinated 
approach. 
the  Sendai  Framework 
for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction,  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change are all critical to these efforts.
Implementing 
Let us therefore commit ourselves to implementing 
urgently,  effectively  and  at  scale 
these  global 
agreements  and  to  addressing  the  socioeconomic  and 
environmental effects of the El Niño phenomenon.
Mr. Meza-Cuadra (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): Due 
to its geographical location and the characteristics of its 
territory, Peru is highly vulnerable to natural disasters 
whose  impacts  can  affect  the  lives,  development  and 
livelihoods  of  our  citizens,  in  particular  the  poorest. 
That  is  why  Peru  has  a  State  policy  for  disaster-risk 
management as part of our development agenda. Within 
the framework of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk 
Reduction 2015-2030, clear global targets and practical 
measures for action are set out, thereby highlighting the 
cross-cutting nature of disaster risk management as an 
essential component of sustainable development.
The  2015/16  El  Niño  phenomenon  was 
the 
strongest  since  1997.  Thanks  to  the  concerted  efforts 
of the World Meteorological Organization and national 
and  regional  climate  centres,  it  has  been  possible  to 
carry  out  preventive  actions  that  greatly  mitigate  the 
negative effects of this phenomenon. In Peru, the cost 
of  the  preventive  measures  adopted  by  our  Central 
Government  is  estimated  to  be  $505  million.  Those 
measures enabled us avoid losses of $3.5 billion, which 
is  equivalent  to  0.2  per  cent  of  Peru’s  gross  domestic 
product.  The  total  losses  during  the  1982-1983  and 
1997-1998  events  amounted  to  $3.283  billion  and 
$3.5 billion, respectively. Those figures are equivalent 
to 11.6 per cent and 6.2 per cent of the gross domestic 
product  in  their  respective  years.  In  both  cases,  the 
productive  sectors,  such  as  agriculture,  fisheries  and 
livestock, were the most affected. During the 2015/16 
El  Niño  phenomenon,  the  agricultural  sector  and  its 
fields were insured through a farming insurance plan 
that  covered  more  than  550,000  hectares  of  crops  in 
eight extremely poor regions in rural areas. Similarly, 
under  the  plan,  525,000  head  of  cattle  were  covered, 
and 15,000 hectares of grass were planted to feed some 
265,200 animals.
We would like to share some of the lessons learned 
from  the  recent  El  Niño  phenomenon  with  a  view  to 
ensuring that our risk- and disaster-management policy 
reach all our people. Significant efforts are required to 
ensure  the  implementation  of  the  Sendai  Framework 
and thereby achieve the goals of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change. The main lessons learned in Peru in 
relation  to  the  2015/16  El  Niño  phenomenon  are  the 
following.
Close  cooperation  between  the  Government  and 
the  population  is  needed.  To  avoid  further  damage, 
multisectoral  action  should  be  taken  at  all  levels  of 
Government.  The  implementation  of  disaster-risk-
management policies are necessary so that appropriate 
action may be taken. A monitoring system for detecting 
quarantine pests must be maintained. Joint cooperation 
with  neighbouring  countries,  such  as  our  cooperation 
with  Ecuador,  is  essential.  Adequate  safety  measures 
and  productive  infrastructure  near  riverbeds  should 
be  set  up  to  prevent  overflows  during  periods  of  El 
Niño. Micro-reservoirs should be maintained to ensure 
that  water  is  available  for  agriculture  and  livestock 
during  droughts.  Improving  the  accuracy  of  early-
warning  systems  with  respect  to  reach,  notification 
and  awareness-raising  of  vulnerable  populations  is 
key.  To  maximize  resources,  coordination  with  local 
authorities  is  crucial.  These  are  just  some  of  the 
main  lessons  learned  by  Peru  in  dealing  with  the  El 
Niño phenomenon.
We  also  welcome  the  United  Nations  efforts  to 
address these challenges, such as the recent appointment 
of  the  Special  Envoys  of  the  Secretary-General  on  El 
Niño and Climate last May. Moreover, there has been 
an increase in international cooperation for developing 
countries  to  complement  the  measures  taken  at  the 
national  level  to  implement  the  Sendai  Framework 
and,  in  the  broader  context,  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
Mr. Cadena (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): The most 
recent report of the World Meteorological Organization 
on  the  El  Niño  phenomenon  confirms  that,  in  May 
2/3 
16-35686
02/11/2016 
A/71/PV.39
2016, we reached the end of the peak period for El Niño 
2015/16. El Niño affected more than 60 million people 
and  their  livelihoods  and  had  an  economic  impact 
that  even  now  is  difficult  to  measure.  Individuals 
and  families  who  depend  on  agriculture,  fisheries 
and  livestock  were  particularly  affected.  The  weather 
forecasts  show  a  high  probability  of  a  weakening  of 
La Niña in 2016 and almost no chance of a significant 
episode of El Niño during 2016 and 2017.
In  our  region  of  Central  America,  countries  and 
towns  were  particularly  affected  by  one  of  the  most 
serious  droughts  in  the  region’s  history.  In  general, 
there were serious effects on harvest crop volumes and 
road infrastructure, which led to substantial losses in 
crops and livestock, affecting food security throughout 
the region.
The  Government  of  Ecuador  addressed  and 
reduced the adverse effects of the El Niño phenomenon 
2015/16 by designing, implementing and launching six 
multipurpose  projects  over  nine  years  through  public 
investment, amounting to more than $1.1 billion, in order 
to  protect  citizens  and  their  livelihoods  from  winter 
floods  by  means  of  creating  reservoirs  to  ensure  that 
water is available for drinking, irrigation and renewable 
energies.  More  than  142,000  hectares  of  crops  have 
been protected. The ongoing implementation of public 
programmes  for  the  control  of  insect-borne  diseases, 
such as zika, dengue and chikungunya, along with the 
maintenance  and  regular  cleaning  of  drainage  canals, 
has visibly reduced the impact on our population.
It is worth noting that the Government of Ecuador 
has  undertaken  several  actions  in  coordination  with 
local  governments,  civil  society  and  communities 
to  strengthen  the  State’s  capacity  to  respond  to 
natural  disasters,  always  through  an  inclusive  risk-
management  approach  and  by  using  an  innovative 
georeferencing  process  for  people  with  disabilities  in 
areas  of  influence,  in  order  to  identify  persons  with 
disabilities and develop a family emergency plan that 
ensures  timely  attention  to  a  possible  emergency  due 
to the adverse effects of the phenomenon. We believe 
that these early actions allowed us to ensure the safety 
of  thousands  of  individuals  and  their  livelihoods  and 
represented a savings of more than $300 million in 2015-
2016 by protecting cultivated land, crops, livestock and 
infrastructure, inter alia. We stress, however, that the 
effects of the devastating earthquake with a magnitude 
of 6.8 on the Richter scale that hit several regions in our 
country  on  16  April  2016  exacerbated  the  challenges 
for  the  Government  and  in  particular  for  the  coastal 
population of my country.
Ecuador 
the 
recognizes 
importance 
of 
humanitarian assistance for countries that were among 
the most affected by El Niño phenomenon in 2015/16, 
and we believe the time has come to look beyond the 
mere  humanitarian  consideration  of  the  effects  of 
the  phenomenon  and  undertake  early  activities  for 
strengthening  institutional  capacities  in  the  affected 
countries in order to respond adequately and in a timely 
manner to these effects. Ecuador thanks the Secretary-
General  for  his  report  on  the  implementation  of  the 
Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction  2015-
2030 (A/71/230), which includes a section on measures 
to address the socioeconomic and environmental effects 
of El Niño, and welcomes the appointment of Mrs. Mary 
Robinson and Mr. Macharia Kamau as Special Envoys 
on  El  Niño  and  Climate.  We  commend  the  Economic 
and Social Council for organizing the high-level event 
on this issue on 6 May 2016.
The  relevance  of  this  issue  demands  an  ongoing 
discussion on the progress achieved at the global level. 
Ecuador  believes  that  tackling  the  adverse  effects 
of  natural  events  that  develop  gradually  constitutes 
an  appropriate  situation  for  the  agencies  responsible 
for  promoting  development  to  coordinate  activities 
in  order  to  provide  comprehensive  action-oriented 
recommendations and solid proposals that incorporate 
elements  of  science, 
innovation  and 
resilient infrastructure for the countries most affected 
in a timely manner and while continuing and increasing 
the  necessary  humanitarian  assistance  efforts.  The 
Ecuador  urges  the  relevant  entities  to  be  proactive, 
act  holistically  and  take  early  action,  and  not  just 
react to the challenge of El Niño. To that end, Ecuador 
appreciates  the  attention  paid  by  Member  States  and 
notes with interest their action-oriented statements and 
recommendations.
technology, 
The  President:  We  have  heard  the  last  speaker 
in  this  plenary  meeting  to  discuss  action-oriented 
socioeconomic 
recommendations 
and  environmental 
the  2015/16  El 
Niño phenomenon.
impacts  of 
to  address 
the 
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 13.
The meeting rose at 10.35 a.m.
16-35686
3/3
