United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
32nd plenary meeting
Wednesday, 26 October 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.32
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 39
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/91)
Draft resolution (A/71/L.3)
Mr. Wafy (Niger): I have the honour to speak on 
behalf of the Group of African States on a matter of great 
importance to the Group, and Africa in general, namely, 
the necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba.
For  more  than  two  decades,  this  matter  has  been 
brought  before  the  General  Assembly  against  the 
background  of  overwhelming  yet  unheeded  appeals 
for  the  immediate  end  to  the  long-standing  economic 
embargo against Cuba. Today those appeals have taken 
on a new dimension and more compelling justification, 
given  the  positive  developments  and  progress  made 
in  relations  between  the  Governments  of  Cuba  and 
the United States of America. The new dimension has 
been occasioned by the re-establishment of diplomatic 
relations, the historic visit by President Barack Obama 
to  Cuba  in  March  —  apparently  the  first  visit  by  an 
American President to that country since 1928 — and 
the resumption of commercial airline service between 
the two countries in August.
The African Group calls for those ground-breaking 
positive  steps  to  go  further  in  lifting  the  economic 
embargo, which continues to inflict economic hardship 
on  the  poor  and  innocent  population  of  Cuba,  and 
most  certainly  makes  the  achievement  of  sustainable 
development  even  more  elusive,  thereby  undermining 
our  collective  efforts  towards  a  universal  push  to 
drive  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
Accordingly, the Group of African States reaffirms 
its  full  support  for  the  General  Assembly  resolution 
on the necessity of ending the economic, financial and 
commercial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America  against  Cuba.  The  Group  of  African  States 
further  reiterates  the  call  made  by  the  African  Union 
Assembly  of  Heads  of  State  and  Government  and  the 
overwhelming call from States Members of the United 
Nations, for the lifting of the long-standing and unjust 
economic, commercial and financial blockade on Cuba.
Mr. Plasai (Thailand): I have the honour to speak 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  on  agenda 
item  39,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba”.
I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
his comprehensive report (A/71/91) on the item we are 
discussing today.
The  Group  of  77  and  China  would  like,  first  of 
all,  to  sincerely  welcome  the  re-establishment  of 
diplomatic relations between the Government of Cuba 
and the Government of the United States of America. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-34312 (E)
*1634312*
A/71/PV.32 
26/10/2016
The  Group  also  welcomes  steps  taken  towards  the 
elimination of the United States embargo against Cuba, 
which  include,  among  others,  the  reopening  of  their 
respective embassies in 2015, President Obama’s visit to 
Cuba in March and the amendments made in 2015 and 
2016 by the United States Department of the Treasury 
and the United States Department of Commerce.
While 
those  are  positive  steps, 
they  remain 
inadequate to effectively end the impact of the embargo. 
Much  more  remains  to  be  done,  especially  action  by 
the  United  States  Congress  with  regard  to  legislative 
bills  proposing  the  lifting  of  blockade  sanctions.  The 
Group  also  believes  that  the  future  President  of  the 
United  States  can  and  should  exercise  more  of  his 
or  her  executive  powers  to  further  modify  blockade 
regulations in the light of the continued disinclination 
on the part of the United States Congress to end those 
punitive measures, which are essentially in violation of 
the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of 
the United Nations.
be unfairly undermined, and it will be impossible for 
Cuba  to  successfully  embark  upon  the  path  towards 
sustainable development envisaged in the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  for  which  all  Member 
States have pledged support.
through 
to  countries 
Over  many  decades,  Cuba  has  extensively  and 
continuously contributed to the international community, 
particularly 
its  remarkable  provision  of 
medical  assistance 
in  need.  Cuba’s 
emergency assistance to the African countries affected 
by the Ebola crisis in West Africa is a great example 
of  its  solidarity  with  the  international  community. 
The  Group  of  77  and  China  hereby  commend  Cuba’s 
contributions  in  the  form  of  humanitarian  assistance 
and would like to express our hope that, if the United 
States  embargo  were  permanently  lifted,  Cuba  would 
be  granted  the  opportunity  that  it  has  long  deserved 
to  fully  cooperate  with  the  global  community  and 
international organizations on health, the environment 
and agriculture, among other important issues.
The Group of 77 and China would like to reiterate 
our commitment to the principles, purposes and spirit 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular 
the  principles  of  the  sovereign  equality  of  States, 
non-intervention and non-interference in their internal 
affairs,  as  well  as  the  freedom  of  international  trade 
and navigation. The Group believes that it is the duty 
and  responsibility  of  every  Member  State  to  comply 
strictly  with  those  principles.  The  Group  is  of  the 
view  that  any  policy  or  action  that  disregards  those 
principles  —  in  this  case  the  unilateral  economic 
sanctions against Cuba — should be seriously considered 
for  immediate  repeal.  Given  that  the  United  States 
embargo against Cuba has continued for more than 50 
years, the Group of 77 and China would like to express 
its  deep  concern  about  the  prolonged  negative  effects 
that the economic sanctions and travel restrictions have 
had on Cuba and its people.
From  April  2015  to  April  2016,  the  impact  of 
the  United  States  embargo  on  Cuba’s  foreign  trade 
amounted  to  more  than  $4  billion.  Limited  foreign 
investment  and  difficult  access 
to  development 
assistance  have  translated  directly  into  economic 
hardship  and  humanitarian  impacts  for  the  people  of 
Cuba.  The  country’s  socioeconomic  reforms  have 
also  been  hampered  by  the  embargo.  The  Group  of 
77  and  China  are  concerned  that,  if  those  economic 
sanctions  continue,  Cuba’s  development  potential,  in 
both  economic  and  human-development  terms,  will 
The Group of 77 and China would like to reiterate 
our  strong  support  for  the  implementation  of  the 
recommendations of resolution 70/5 and our call for an 
end to the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
by  the  United  States  against  Cuba.  The  urgency  and 
necessity  of  our  call  is  further  highlighted  by  the 
ongoing global and collective striving to implement the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Group 
of 77 and China would therefore like to appeal to the 
international  community  to  further  step  up  efforts  in 
support of the lifting of the embargo, not solely for the 
benefit of Cuba, but also for the full achievement of the 
economic and social development of all members of the 
global community as a whole.
Mr.  Rattray  (Jamaica):  It  a  great  privilege  for 
me  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of 
the  14  member  States  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM).
CARICOM  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made 
by  the  representative  of  the  Kingdom  of  Thailand  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  with  the 
statement  to  be  delivered  by  the  representative  of  the 
Dominican Republic on behalf of Community of Latin 
American and Caribbean States.
too  many  years, 
the  United  States 
has  maintained  a  commercial  embargo  on  Cuba, 
through  various  laws,  regulations  and  presidential 
proclamations. That pernicious embargo has restricted 
For  far 
2/27 
16-34312
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.32
the  ability  of  a  proud,  honourable,  independent, 
talented  and  self-reliant  people  to  conduct  legitimate 
trade,  travel  and  to  undertake  financial  transactions. 
The stated purpose of that all-encompassing economic, 
commercial and financial blockade was to bring about 
political change. However, all these years later, we see 
that  the  intended  outcome  has  failed  to  materialize, 
and  the  sole  result  is  the  undue  hardship  that  has 
been  caused  to  the  population  of  Cuba.  We  fully 
agree  with  President  Obama’s  characterization  of  the 
embargo  as  an  outdated  burden  on  the  Cuban  people, 
and  we  appreciate  his  acknowledgment  that  what  the 
United States was doing was not working. Regrettably, 
however,  his  call  upon  his  own  Congress  to  lift  the 
embargo has fallen on deaf ears.
CARICOM,  and  virtually  the  entire  international 
community,  has  consistently  highlighted  the  fact  that 
that  unilateral,  coercive  and  anachronistic  measure 
is  inconsistent  with  international  law,  transgresses 
fundamental  humanitarian  principles  and  contravenes 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  norms 
governing  peaceful  relations  between  States.  In  2015, 
during  its  landmark  seventieth  session,  the  General 
Assembly voted for the twenty-fourth consecutive year 
on the necessity of ending the embargo against Cuba. 
The near unanimous vote of 191 countries in favour of 
resolution  70/5  reflected  an  overwhelming  attestation 
of  the  international  community’s  solidarity  with  the 
people of Cuba.
It is for that reason that CARICOM welcomes the 
re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  between  the 
United  States  and  Cuba,  which  was  symbolized  by 
President  Obama’s  historic  visit  to  Havana  in  March 
and  by  the  tangible  action  taken  to  reopen  embassies 
in  their  respective  countries.  We  applaud  President 
Obama’s  recognition  that  the  age-old  blockade  has 
been  harmful  to  the  Cuban  people,  and  we  salute  his 
stated desire to bury the last remnant of the Cold War 
in the Americas.
CARICOM and Cuba have had a long and fruitful 
relationship,  which  predates  the  embargo.  Cuba  is  an 
important development partner for the Caribbean, and 
our bonds of mutual respect, friendship and cooperation 
are deeply valued and treasured. We also enjoy friendly 
relations with the United States and cooperate through 
various  bilateral  and  regional  initiatives.  For  that 
reason,  we  believe  that  improved  relations  between 
Cuba and the United States of America can only bode 
well  for  our  nations.  We  therefore  encourage  both 
countries  to  continue  to  explore  ways  to  increase  the 
type of cooperation that was evident during the Ebola 
crisis in West Africa. The renewal of relations between 
those two neighbours signals a new era of engagement 
for both countries. CARICOM sees those developments 
as  important  first  steps  in  our  hemisphere’s  journey 
towards  a  destination 
in  an 
environment of lasting peace and security, one where 
development can flourish.
is  enveloped 
that 
CARICOM  will  once  again  unreservedly  support 
the  draft  resolution  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba. It is our 
hope that this will be the final time that the Assembly 
will  have  to  consider  this  agenda  item.  Indeed,  we 
look  forward  to  that  becoming  a  reality  in  the  very 
near future.
Mr.  Gafoor  (Singapore):  I  have 
the  honour 
to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the 
10  member  States  of  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  to  express  our  support  for 
draft  resolution  A/71/L.3,  on  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against the Republic of Cuba.
The General Assembly has consistently adopted this 
annual  draft  resolution  by  an  overwhelming  majority 
since it was first introduced, in 1992. ASEAN member 
States  have  voted  unanimously  in  favour  of  the  draft 
resolution for the past 15 years. In 2015, a spokesperson 
for ASEAN made a statement in the General Assembly 
calling  for  the  unilateral  embargo  against  Cuba  to  be 
lifted  as  soon  as  possible  (see  A/70/PV.40).  It  is  our 
firm  belief  that  differences  between  States  should  be 
settled through engagement, not confrontation, and by 
inclusion, not isolation. All of that must be done while 
bearing in mind the fundamental principles of sovereign 
equality,  non-interference  and  non-intervention,  as 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
ASEAN  welcomes  the  restoration  of  diplomatic 
relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of 
America. President Barack Obama’s state visit in March, 
the relaxation of travel restrictions to Cuba for United 
States  citizens  and  the  restoration  of  direct  flights 
between  the  United  States  and  Cuba  are  important 
steps  towards  the  normalization  of  bilateral  relations. 
They  are  key  to  building  better  regional  relations  in 
the  Americas.  In  ASEAN’s  view,  a  more  important 
step will be for the United States to end its economic, 
16-34312
3/27
A/71/PV.32 
26/10/2016
commercial and financial embargo on Cuba. It would 
significantly  improve  the  quality  of  life  and  living 
standards  of  the  Cuban  people  and  contribute  to  the 
economic and social development of Cuba. Bringing an 
end to the embargo would also advance the Assembly’s 
efforts towards achieving an inclusive 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development.
ASEAN encourages the United States and Cuba in 
their efforts to chart a new way forward. We recognize 
that much remains to be done. ASEAN joins the other 
members of the Assembly in reiterating our support for 
the  lifting  of  the  unilateral  embargo  against  Cuba  as 
soon as possible.
Mr. Kononuchenko (Russian Federation) (spoke in 
Russian): We would like to thank the Secretary-General 
for having drafted the report (A/71/91) on the need to 
end the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
against Cuba that was imposed by the United States of 
America. The position of the Russian Federation in that 
respect remains unchanged.
The  embargo  of  the  United  States  of  America 
targeting Cuba must be immediately lifted, as it directly 
contradicts  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  Charter 
of the United Nations regarding the inadmissability of 
any measures of discrimination and intervention in the 
domestic affairs of sovereign States. The experience of 
Cuba does a good job of showing the short-sightedness 
and counterproductivity of the imposition of unilateral 
economic, commercial and financial coercive measures 
for  the  attainment  of  political  objectives.  Above  all, 
they burden ordinary citizens. They worsen the plight 
of those most vulnerable. The outcome of the vote on 
draft  resolution  A/71/L.3,  on  the  necessity  of  ending 
the economic, commerical and financial blockade, will 
again reveal the growing international awareness of the 
inadmissability  of  allowing  such  a  state  of  affairs  to 
persist. 
The  persistent  American  sanctions  against  Cuba 
are a relic of the past. From the outset, they placed Cuba 
in a vulnerable position regarding the implementation 
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The 
sanctions  constrain  and  at  times  directly  undermine 
the capacity of that island State to mobilize resources 
for  the  attainment  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals. In that connection, the international community, 
having unanimously assumed the obligation to leave no 
one behind, does not have the moral right to continue to 
tolerate sanctions against Cuba.
On  19  October  the  State  Duma  of  the  Russian 
Federation made its annual declaration to the General 
Assembly  and  the  Parliaments  of  Member  States 
condemning the policy of Washington, which for more 
than 50 years has been opportunistically imposing the 
most  protracted  unilateral  sanctions  in  the  history  of 
international relations. The Russian deputies extended 
their solidarity to the Cuban people, who are upholding 
their  freedom  and  sovereignty  despite  limitations  and 
restrictions of a humanitarian nature imposed on them.
The  United  States’  relaxation  of  the  embargo 
does  not  lift  the  embargo,  as  such.  The  failure  to  lift 
the  embargo  is,  however,  at  odds  with  the  approach 
of  seeking  to  normalize  Cuban-American  relations. 
Cubans  continue  to  face  serious  obstacles  as  they 
strive to fully engage in the international financial and 
economic system. That undermines the entire range of 
global  integration  links  and  undermines  regional  and 
international  cooperation.  We  hope  that  Washington, 
D.C.,  will  finally  acknowledge  the  imperatives  of 
the  present-day  realities  and  that  the  process  of 
strengthening  links  with  Havana  —  especially  with 
regard to the embargo — will be furthered and receive 
the  necessary  momentum,  regardless  of  the  political 
situation and the results of the elections in the United 
States.
The  Russian  Federation  would  like  to  affirm 
its  determination  to  cooperate  in  ensuring  a  fair  and 
equitable international order founded on the purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. We 
firmly believe that the key to solving the problem lies in 
the countries’ goodwill and readiness to seek mutually 
acceptable compromises, rather than in using coercion 
and blackmail. The principles of integrity, sovereignty, 
non-interference 
internal  affairs,  and 
cooperation do not permit the use of unilateral coercive 
measures,  which  are  in  violation  of  international  law. 
In  that  connection,  we  deplore  the  continuing  United 
States sanctions on Cuba and urge all countries to join 
us at this seventy-first session of the General Assembly 
in  voting  in  favour  of  draft  resolution  A/71/L.3,  on 
the necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States against 
Cuba.
in  States’ 
The President: I would like to propose that the list 
of speakers on the current topic be closed, in view of 
the large number of delegations inscribed on the list.
4/27 
16-34312
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.32
Unless  I  see  any  objection,  I  will  take  it  that  the 
Assembly agrees to close the list of speakers.
It was so decided.
Mr.  Cortorreal  (Dominican  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): I have the honour to speak on behalf of the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
(CELAC).
to  end 
CELAC  welcomes  the  progress  in  the  process  of 
normalizing diplomatic relations between Cuba and the 
United States of America, which marks the beginning 
of a new chapter in the history of peace and coexistence 
among  the  nations  of  the  Americas.  We  acknowledge 
President  Obama’s  wish 
the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  that  the  United 
States  has  imposed  on  Cuba  for  more  than  50  years. 
However, we regret the fact that the blockade is still a 
reality for the Cuban people. It presents an undeniably 
major  obstacle  to  Cuba’s  normal  development.  The 
Secretary-General’s  report  (A/71/91)  confirms  how 
much the policy has cost Cuba and the substantial and 
unjustifiable  harm  that  it  does  to  the  Cuban  people’s 
well-being.  It  is  antithetical  to  the  Latin  American 
peoples’  desire  for  peace,  as  enshrined  in  the  2014 
Havana  Declaration  of  the  Latin  American  and  the 
Caribbean  region  as  a  zone  of  peace.  Moreover,  the 
economic, commercial and financial blockade imposed 
on  Cuba  is  contrary  to  the  letter  and  spirit  and  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and of international law.
CELAC  reiterates 
its  firm  rejection  of  any 
application of laws and measures, such as the Helms-
Burton  Act,  that  run  counter  to  international  law, 
especially those with extraterritorial effects, as well as 
the increasing harassment of Cuba in its international 
financial  transactions,  in  opposition  to  the  political 
will  of  the  international  community  in  general.  We 
urge the Government of the United States of America 
to stop implementing its current policy on the matter. 
The United States Congress has the authority to end the 
Cuban embargo completely. However, we acknowledge 
the  executive  actions 
that  President  Obama  has 
undertaken  since  January  of  last  year,  including 
removing  Cuba  from  the  list  of  countries  sponsoring 
terrorism — which Cuba should never have been on in 
the  first  place  —  which  illustrate  the  broad  capacity 
that the United States President has to modify its unjust 
policy of embargo.
CELAC would like to recall its special declaration 
on  the  need  to  put  an  end  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the  United  States 
against  Cuba,  adopted  at  its  fourth  Summit,  held  in 
Quito on 26 and 27 January, in which we requested
the 
the  repeated  calls  from 
“the Government of the United States of America 
to fulfil the successive resolutions adopted by the 
United Nations General Assembly and, in response 
to 
international 
community,  to  put  an  end  to  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  against  Cuba, 
which  runs  contrary  to  international  law  and 
severely and unjustifiably damages the well-being 
of the Cuban people.”
The  United  Nations  Charter  enshrines  rights, 
obligations  and  principles  that  have  become  part  of 
the  legal  heritage,  not  just  of  international  law  but  of 
humankind in general. They should not be violated or 
abused by any Member State, which should ensure that 
their  national  and  international  actions  are  in  accord 
with the rights, obligations and principles enshrined in 
the Charter.
In 2015 the resolution on this topic (resolution 70/5) 
was adopted with 191 votes in favour, in affirmation of 
the universality of its cause. For those reasons, CELAC 
will once again give its firm support to this year’s draft 
resolution entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”  (A/71/L.3). 
We emphasize the inconsistency of unilateral measures 
that  are  not  supported  by  international  law  or  by  the 
letter, the spirit and the purposes and principles of the 
Charter.  We  reiterate  our  call  to  the  United  States  of 
America  to  accede  to  the  countries  of  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean and of every region of the world, and 
to harken to the views of its own people, as they urge 
it to put an end once and for all to the unjust embargo 
of Cuba.
Mr. Alotaibi (Kuwait): I have the honour to make 
this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  member  States  of  the 
Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC).
At the outset, the member States of the OIC welcome 
the  restoration  of  diplomatic  ties  between  the  United 
States  and  Cuba,  the  reopening  of  their  embassies 
more  than  a  year  ago  and  President  Barack  Obama’s 
visit to Cuba in March, as well as the other significant 
steps that have been taken between the two countries’ 
Governments. The OIC emphasizes the importance that 
16-34312
5/27
A/71/PV.32 
26/10/2016
those steps will have for efforts to normalize bilateral 
ties between both nations, and stresses that improving 
relations  and  moving  forward  positively  would  be 
mutually beneficial for both peoples.
In  spite  of  those  positive  steps,  however,  there 
remains  the  issue  of  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  on 
Cuba  years  ago.  That  unilateral  action  by  the  United 
States  has  harmed  not  only  the  Cuban  economy 
but  also  the  well-being  of  the  Cuban  people  and  of 
Cuban  nationals  living  in  other  countries,  creating 
unnecessary economic hardship for them. Furthermore, 
the decades-long embargo has impeded socioeconomic 
and development progress, and it will obstruct Cuba’s 
efforts  to  achieve  sustainable  development  as  long  as 
it  continues.  In  addition,  the  unilateral  blockade  also 
affects third countries, as well as entities and companies 
that face fines for conducting commercial activity with 
Cuba.
The  OIC  believes  that  such  unilateral  action  runs 
counter to the purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations. The OIC reiterates its deep concern 
about the negative impact that the unilateral blockade 
has on the Cuban people and considers its continuation 
unjustifiable. 
The  OIC  supports  this  year’s  draft  resolution  on 
this  agenda  item  (A/71/L.3)  and  calls  on  the  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  vote  in  favour  of 
it.The OIC believes that, given the support behind the 
draft resolution, entitled the “Necessity of ending the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”, it truly 
reflects the international community’s collective view 
on this topic.
Mr.  Ramírez  Carreño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As  the  current  Chair 
of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries,  I  have 
the honour to address the General Assembly on behalf 
of the 120 States Members of the United Nations that 
comprise  this  mechanism  for  consultation  and  joint 
political action.
I  begin  by  extending  a  warm  welcome  and 
revolutionary salute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Cuba, Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla.
Twnety-five  times  the  General  Assembly  has 
expressed its overwhelming support for and solidarity 
with  the  Government  and  the  people  of  Cuba  with 
decisive votes in favour of the draft resolution calling 
on  the  United  States  to  lift  the  embargo  against  this 
fraternal  Latin  American  and  Carribean  country..  We 
thank the Secretary-General for the presentation of his 
report (A/71/91) on this important issue. Last year, 191 
Member States voted in favour of resolution 70/5. 
The  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  has 
always reiterated its strongest opposition to unilateral 
coercive measures with extraterritorial effects because 
they  are  illegal.  The  Non-Aligned  Movement  has 
repeatedly called on the Government of the United States 
of America to put an end to its economic, commercial 
and financial embargo against Cuba, which is contrary 
to international law, the Charter of the United Nations 
and  the  norms  and  principles  governing  peaceful 
relations among States. It also violates Cuba’s right to 
interact freely with the international community.
The embargo has had adverse impacts on the well-
being  of  the  people  of  Cuba  in  violating  their  human 
rights. The direct and indirect damage inflicted by the 
unjustified  embargo  against  Cuba  is  enormous.  That 
illegal policy affects all sectors that are crucial to the 
Cuban  economy,  such  as  public  health,  nutrition  and 
agriculture, as well as banking, trade, investment and 
tourism. The blockade denies Cuba access to markets 
and  to  development  aid  from  international  financial 
institutions, as well as technology transfers. It creates 
impediments  to  the  socioeconomic  development  of 
the country. The embargo is also the main obstacle to 
broader  access  to  the  Internet,  the  exchange  of  ideas 
and  the  development  of  cultural,  sport  and  scientific 
relations.  The  continuation  of  the  embargo  is  totally 
unjustifiable and undermines Cuba’s efforts to achieve 
sustainable development.
The economic damage to the Cuban people by the 
imposition of the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo by the United States of America against Cuba 
amounts to $833.7 billion, if one takes into account the 
depreciation  of  the  dollar  with  respect  to  the  price  of 
gold on the international market. During all these years, 
the blockade has caused damage of over $121 billion, 
using current prices.
The Movement of Non-Aligned Countries considers 
the establishment of diplomatic relations between Cuba 
and  the  United  States  to  be  an  initial  positive  step  in 
the  process  towards  the  normalization  of  bilateral 
relations. At the same time, it should be noted that the 
blockade  has  remained  unchanged.  Indeed,  under  the 
6/27 
16-34312
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.32
current Administration, the blockade has been further 
tightened,  and  its  territorial  application  has  been 
intensified through the imposition of 42 fines on entities, 
both foreign and American, amounting to $13.2 billion. 
While  the  regulations  issued  by  the  Departments  of 
Commerce and the Treasury on 15 January 2015 were 
steps  in  the  right  direction  in  areas  such  as  travel  to 
Cuba,  telecommunication  and  remittances,  they  are 
limited in scope and only modify some aspects related 
to the implementation of the blockade.
Despite  the  historic  decision  of  the  United  States 
President  to  notify  the  Congress  of  his  decision  to 
remove Cuba from the so-called list of State sponsors 
of  international  terrorism  —  a  list  on  which  Cuba 
should never have been included — that has not meant 
an  easing  of  the  intricacies  of  all  the  prohibitions 
and  restrictions  established  by  the  blockade  laws  and 
regulations imposed against this fraternal country.
Given  what  I  have  just  said,  the  Movement  of 
Non-Aligned  Countries  maintains  its  call  for  an  end 
to  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States against Cuba. That was 
reiterated during the seventeenth Summit of the Heads 
of  State  and  Government,  held  on  Margarita  Island 
in  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  on  17  and 
18 September. The vote in the General Assembly last 
year  in  favour  of  resolution  70/5  by  191  Member 
States  constituted  an  expression  of  unanimity  within 
the international community in demanding the end of 
the  50-year  embargo  and  adherence  to  the  principles 
of mutual respect and non-interference in the internal 
affairs of Cuba.
Currently,  over  190  nations  have  economic  and 
political  relations  with  Cuba,  while  the  United  States 
remains  alone  in  pursuing  its  unjustified  policy  of 
economic  sanctions.  The  Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries once again urges the United States of America 
to  yield  to  the  will  of  the  overwhelming  majority  of 
the  international  community  and  to  rectify  its  failed 
policies by fully complying with the General Assembly 
resolutions calling for an immediate and complete end 
to the embargo imposed on Cuba.
Finally,  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries 
reiterates that full respect for the purposes and principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  is  an  essential 
element in the maintenance of international peace and 
security  and  that  the  international  community  should 
continue  working  to  eliminate  unilateral  coercive 
measures,  as  they  are  illegal,  such  as  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba.
Now, in my national capacity, I wish to say that the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela will vote in favour of 
draft resolution A/71/L.3, for we are convinced that the 
new statement by the General Assembly rejecting the 
blockade  imposed  by  the  United  States  against  Cuba 
reflects  our  firm  position  with  regard  to  unrestricted 
respect for the purposes and principles that sustain the 
international legal and political order in support of the 
maintenance of harmonious and stable relations among 
the Member States of this Organization.
The  blockade  imposed  on  the  brotherly  people 
of  Cuba  for  56  years  has  shown  itself  today  to  be  a 
total failure. Its only objective has been the supposed 
desire to restrict the right to self-determination of that 
country and to defeat the Cuban revolution. Despite the 
obstacles created by that unilateral measure, Cuba has 
been  able  to  deal  with  the  illegal  action,  maintaining 
its sovereignty and political independence with dignity 
under the banners of international law and the Charter 
of the United Nations.
We wish to point out that the American policy of 
sanctions  has  been  wrong  and  has  drawn  attention  to 
the extraordinary capacity and political determination 
of the Cuban people and the intrinsic moral force of the 
heirs of the legacy of José Martí. 
Therefore, in contrast to the destabilizing purposes 
and plans of the supporters of that illegal policy, Cuba 
has  been  characterized  throughout  its  revolutionary 
history,  under  the  leadership  of  Commander  Fidel 
Castro and the current President, Mr. Raúl Castro, by 
its  spirit  of  solidarity  with  the  sister  countries  of  the 
developing  world,  providing,  despite  its  economic 
difficulties, unbiased help and solidarity to peoples with 
humanitarian  needs  arising  from  natural  disasters  or 
epidemics like Ebola and cholera. It deploys specialized 
medical personnel to help victims of those diseases in 
any corner of the globe.
Venezuela 
to 
therefore  once  again  urges 
the 
Government of the United States to put an immediate 
end 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade  against  this  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
sister country and to make that happen in harmony with 
the  process  of  the  normalization  of  bilateral  relations 
between the two countries. 
16-34312
7/27
A/71/PV.32 
26/10/2016
The defeat of the blockade is a moral and political 
victory for the people of the Cuban revolution against 
the largest empire on Earth. Long live Cuba! Long live 
Chavez! Long live Fidel! Venceremos!
Mr.  Sandoval  Mendiolea  (Mexico)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  My  delegation  associates  itself  with  the 
statement made by the representative of the Dominican 
Republic on behalf of the Community of Latin American 
and Caribbean States.
As in previous years, Mexico once again reiterates 
its rejection of the unilateral action against the Republic 
of  Cuba,  including  the  imposition  for  more  than  five 
decades  of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade, which runs counter to international law and 
the  relations  of  friendship  and  cooperation  that  must 
prevail among States.
Only  a  month  ago,  the  President  of  Mexico, 
Mr. Enrique Peña Nieto, reiterated before the General 
Assembly  (see  A/71/PV.10)  my  country’s  call  for  the 
lifting  of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade  against  Cuba,  which  will  produce  a  climate 
of  detente  and  understanding  in  our  region.  The 
Government  of  Mexico  today  reaffirms  that  call 
and  confirms  that  it  will  support  the  draft  resolution 
before the Assembly (A/71/L.3), as it invariably has in 
previous years.
Mexico  welcomes  the  progress  in  the  process  of 
normalization  of  the  relations  between  Cuba  and  the 
United  States  of  America,  two  important  neighbours 
and  partners  for  my  country,  but  it  is  aware  that  full 
normalization  requires  eliminating 
the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  against  Cuba.  My 
country recognizes the measures that the President of 
the United States has implemented to ease the blockade, 
but  it  knows  that  lifting  the  blockade  is  within  the 
purview of the United States Congress.
The  Republic  of  Cuba  is  undertaking  efforts  to 
update its economic and social model. The elimination 
of the embargo would facilitate the restructuring of the 
Cuban  economy  and  allow  its  full  reintegration  and 
access  to  international  trade  flows  and  investment. 
Mexico recognizes the actions taken by the Government 
of  the  Republic  of  Cuba  to  fulfil  its  international 
commitments in the field of development. Despite the 
adverse circumstances that it has confronted for more 
than  50  years,  Cuba  has  high  human  development 
indices  in  the  areas  of  labour,  health,  education  and 
the environment, among others, as recently recognized 
in  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme’s 
2016  Regional  Human  Development  Report  for  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean.  With  an  end  to  the 
blockade,  Cuba  will  be  able  to  implement  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and fully achieve 
its 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
My  country  supports  the  process  of  updating 
the  Cuban  economic  and  social  model  and  intends  to 
contribute to that process, if so requested.
Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  China 
associates  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative of Thailand on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China.
launched  new  prospects  for 
A year ago, the United Nations development summit 
adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
which 
international 
cooperation  for  development.  The  comprehensive 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  is,  and  will  be 
for  some  time  to  come,  the  central  task  in  the  field 
of development.
Countries  should  work  on  the  basis  of  equality, 
engage in cooperation guided by an open and inclusive 
approach  and  seek  common  development  through 
win-win cooperation with a view to sharing the fruits 
of development. Such circumstances call for putting an 
immediate end to the economic embargo and sanctions 
imposed by the United States against Cuba.
The General Assembly has for 24 consecutive years 
adopted by an overwhelming majority a resolution on 
the necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba, and urging all States to comply 
with the Charter of the United Nations and the norms of 
international law, and rescind or abolish measures that 
have  extraterritorial  effects  affecting  the  sovereignty 
of  other  States,  the  legitimate  interests  of  entities  or 
persons  under  their  jurisdiction  and  the  freedom  of 
trade and navigation. 
It  is  regrettable  that  for  so  many  years  none  of 
those  resolutions  have  been  implemented,  and  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  against  Cuba  still  remains  in 
effect.  Such  violations  of  the  purposes  and  principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  relevant 
General  Assembly  resolutions  have  caused  enormous 
economic  and  financial  losses  for  Cuba  and  impeded 
the efforts of the Cuban people to eradicate poverty and 
8/27 
16-34312
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.32
promote sustainable economic and social development. 
It  has  not  only  undermined  the  Cuban  people’s  right 
to  life  and  development,  but  has  also  affected  the 
normal economic, commercial and financial exchanges 
between other countries and Cuba.
China  has  always  stood  for  respect  for  the  right 
of countries to freely choose their social systems and 
their  path  towards  development.  It  opposes  unilateral 
sanctions against other countries by military, political, 
economic or any other means. China has always strictly 
complied  with  and  implemented  the  relevant  General 
Assembly resolutions. China and Cuba have maintained 
economic, commercial and personal exchanges, and a 
friendly and mutually beneficial cooperation in various 
areas  between  our  two  countries  has  been  steadily 
developing. Not long ago, Premier Li Keqiang visited 
Cuba,  at  which  time  the  leaders  of  our  two  countries 
reached a broad common understanding on the further 
deepening  of  the  pragmatic  cooperation  between 
China and Cuba in line with the aspirations of our two 
peoples and in the interest of the economic and social 
development of Cuba.
In  our  times,  characterized  by  multipolarization, 
economic  globalization,  cultural  diversity  and  the 
democratization of international relations, the general 
trend  is  towards  exchange  and  cooperation  among 
countries on an equal footing. Dialogue among equals 
and  amicable  consultations  represent  the  best  way  to 
resolve differences.
Mr.  Zamora  Rivas  (El  Salvador),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
China has taken note of the measures taken by the 
United States to ease the constraints it has imposed on 
Cuba with regard to commerce, trade and tourism, and 
we hope that the United States and Cuba will continue 
to work towards the normalization of their relations. We 
hope that the United States will fully repeal its embargo 
policy against Cuba at an early date and develop normal 
State-to-State relations with it, in accordance with the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  basic  norms  governing  international 
relations.  That  is  in  the  common  interest  of  both 
countries  and  their  peoples  and  in  the  interest  of  the 
peace  and  stability  of  the  Americas  and  the  common 
development of the international community.
China  will  once  again  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft 
resolution, A/71/L.3, submitted by Cuba.
Mrs.  Nguyen  (Viet  Nam):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  extend  my  warmest  welcome  to  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Cuba.
Viet Nam aligns itself with the statements delivered 
by  the  representatives  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China, 
the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  and  the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
We  greatly  appreciate  the  Secretary-General’s 
comprehensive  report  (A/71/91),  which  lays  out  the 
positions  of  Member  States  on  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba  and 
assessments by United Nations agencies of the impact 
of the blockade.
On 27 October 2015, Viet Nam joined with 190 other 
delegations in voting in favour of resolution 70/5. The 
adoption of that resolution by an overwhelming majority 
once again sent a strong message from the international 
community  calling  on  the  United  States  of  America 
to  end  its  embargo  against  Cuba.  It  is  our  principled 
position that Viet Nam opposes the imposition of any 
unilateral embargo and coercive measures by one State 
on another. 
Today Viet Nam will vote unreservedly in favour 
of draft resolution A/71/L.3 in its entirety. By its vote 
Viet  Nam  wishes  to  reiterate  its  firm  belief  that  the 
United States blockade against Cuba, which has lasted 
for more than five decades, is contrary to international 
law  and  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  has  caused  untold  hardship 
to  the  Cuban  people.  That  policy  runs  counter  to 
the  common  intentions  of  all  nations  in  the  world  to 
build  international  relations  on  a  sound  and  equitable 
basis,  regardless  of  their  political  systems  and  with 
respect  for  each  nation’s  right  to  choose  its  own  path 
of development.
Viet  Nam  welcomes 
the  restoration  of  full 
diplomatic  ties  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States 
and the outcomes of President Barack Obama’s visit to 
Cuba in March. We also welcome the latest decision by 
the United States President to issue his policy directive 
on  Cuba  on  14  October  and  to  announce  a  group  of 
measures to modify the application of some aspects of 
the embargo. We hope that such progressive steps will 
create a political dynamic that will eventually lead to 
the  repeal  of  the  blockade,  which  poses  an  essential 
obstacle to the normalization of relations between the 
two countries.
16-34312
9/27
A/71/PV.32 
26/10/2016
Once again, Viet Nam joins with other delegations 
to  call  on  the  United  States  to  put  an  immediate  end 
to  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade 
against  Cuba.  The  lifting  of  the  embargo  would  meet 
the  aspirations  of  both  the  American  and  the  Cuban 
peoples.  It  would  be  beneficial  both  for  the  people  of 
the region and for peace, stability and prosperity in the 
region and the world.
My  delegation  wishes  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  reiterate  Viet  Nam’s  friendship,  cooperation  and 
solidarity with Cuba. We will continue to do our utmost 
to help the people of Cuba to overcome the difficulties 
and challenges imposed by the embargo.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  At  the  outset,  Bolivia  welcomes 
the  presence  among  us  of  Comrade  Bruno  Rodríguez 
Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba.
Once  again,  Bolivia  joins  the  concert  of  the 
nations  of  the  world  to  condemn  and  repudiate,  most 
energetically,  the  unilateral,  immoral,  unjust,  illegal, 
anachronistic and criminal economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States against 
Cuba for more than half a century.
I will take advantage of these few minutes to pay 
tribute  to  the  Cuban  people  and  its  revolution.  I  am 
convinced that the best way of doing so is to pay tribute 
to the person who, as the Argentine writer Julio Cortázar 
said, was the sculptor of the revolution. I am thinking 
here about Fidel Castro Ruz, who, as the world knows, 
recently  celebrated  his  ninetieth  birthday.  He  resisted 
throughout  the  terms  of  11  American  Presidents,  and 
he won. He has survived more than 600 attacks against 
his life organized by the empire. Never in the history of 
humankind have there been so many plans and so many 
resources devoted to ending the life of a single person. 
Fidel has a special place — a privileged place — in the 
hearts and in the history of the liberation of peoples. He 
has shaped the most solidary-replete revolution in the 
history of humankind and has brought us closer to the 
utopia of a better world.
Cuba’s  people,  our  people,  have  witnessed  the 
marvellous  solidarity  of  the  Cuban  revolution.  My 
brothers  and  sisters  from  Africa  know  what  I  am 
talking  about.  Cuba  is  the  only  non-African  country 
that  fought  against  the  regime  of  apartheid.  Another 
titan of history, Nelson Mandela, said the following,
“I am a loyal man, and I will never forget that, in 
the  darkest  moments  of  our  country  in  the  fight 
against apartheid, Fidel Castro was on our side.”
Our  brothers  and  sisters  of  Asia  and  Pacific  also 
know the Cubans, because Cuba has been in the front 
lines  helping  victims  of  earthquakes  and  typhoons  in 
distant  regions.  Ho  Chi  Minh,  the  great  Vietnamese 
leader, said that Cubans, with Fidel as their leader, were 
in solidarity with his people and their struggle, and that 
the  Vietnamese  would  never  forget  that  support.  In 
my own region, in Latin America and the Caribbean, 
countless  lives  have  been  saved  by  Cuban  doctors. 
Countless people know how to read and write thanks to 
teachers from Cuba. Our President Morales Ayma has 
noted  that  the  Cubans  shared  the  little  that  they  had, 
and they did so in a disinterested way; they never asked 
anything  from  anyone  —  no  mining,  oil  or  forestry 
resources — for their solidarity.
From  this  rostrum  Fidel  not  only  encouraged 
humankind, but he led the fight against arms, against 
nuclear  weapons,  against  debt,  against  the  pillaging 
of  our  natural  resources,  against  the  anti-democratic 
financial and monetary system, against climate change 
and  against  hunger,  disease  and  inequality  —  in 
summary,  against  capitalism  and  imperialism  and  for 
the building of a new international order.
Today we are not only voting against the blockade; 
we are voting for hope and for the marvellous possibility 
of  making  a  better  world.  Cuba  is  the  example  to  be 
followed,  and  Fidel  is  the  symbol  of  the  dignity  of 
our peoples.
I wish to apologize to you, sir,, but when one is full 
of gratitude in one’s heart, the last thing one is thinking 
about  is  protocol.  That  is  why  I  wish  to  conclude  by 
saying, “Long live Fidel! Long live Cuba!”
Mr.  Lal  (India):  India  associates  itself  with  the 
statement by the representative of Thailand on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China and the statement by the 
representative of Venezuela on behalf of the Movement 
of Non-Aligned Countries.
We welcome the Foreign Minister of Cuba among 
us here today.
India  welcomes 
the  restoration  of  diplomatic 
relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of 
America, the historic visit of the President of the United 
States to Cuba in March and the further developments 
in that regard since then.
10/27 
16-34312
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.32
that  hurt 
For  more  than  two  decades  now,  the  General 
Assembly  has  considered  annually  the  issue  of  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States against Cuba. It has consistently 
rejected  the  imposition  of  laws  and  regulations  with 
extraterritorial impact and all other forms of coercive 
economic  measures 
the  progress  and 
prosperity of people the world over. The Assembly has 
also  called  upon  all  States,  in  conformity  with  their 
obligations  under  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and international law, to refrain from promulgating and 
applying  laws  and  measures  that  have  extraterritorial 
effects affecting the sovereignty of other States, as well 
as to repeal and invalidate any such laws. There can be 
little doubt that the continued existence of the embargo 
against  Cuba,  in  contravention  of  world  opinion  as 
expressed by the Assembly, undermines multilateralism 
and the credibility of the United Nations itself.
As the world’s largest democracy, with an abiding 
faith  in  multilateralism,  India  stands  in  solidarity 
with  the  international  community  in  its  unambiguous 
rejection  of  domestic  laws  having  extraterritorial 
impact.  Embargoes  impede  the  full  achievement  of 
economic and social development by the population of 
the affected country, in particular where children and 
women  are  concerned.  They  also  hinder  the  overall 
enjoyment  of  human  rights,  including  the  right  to 
development,  food,  medical  care  and  social  services, 
among other things.
Successive  reports  of  the  Secretary-General  have 
established  —  and  this  year’s  report  (A/71/91)  is  no 
exception  —  that  the  embargo,  particularly  through 
its  extraterritorial  effects,  has  adversely  affected 
the  Cuban  people  and  the  development  efforts  of  the 
country. At the same time, we would like to acknowledge 
the  notable 
and  developmental 
achievements  of  the  Cuban  people,  in  particular  the 
high Human Development Index ranking of Cuba and its 
achievement of several of the Millennium Development 
Goals. The continued embargo would severely impact 
Cuba’s  ability  to  implement  the  comprehensive  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
socioeconomic 
Cuba’s  expertise  in  health  care,  achieved  despite 
the  conditions  imposed  by  the  embargo,  enabled  it  to 
respond quickly, effectively and in a substantial manner 
to the call made by the General Assembly two years ago 
to all nations to respond to the Ebola crisis in Africa.
In  launching  the  transformative  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development, world leaders again strongly 
urged  all  States  to  refrain  from  unilateral  economic, 
financial  or  trade  measures  not  in  accordance  with 
international law and the Charter of the United Nations. 
The  international  community  needs  to  redouble  its 
efforts to promote an environment free from sanctions 
and embargoes.
India hopes that the ongoing positive developments 
in the relations between Cuba and the United States will 
lead  to  the  withdrawal  of  the  embargo  at  the  earliest 
possible date. India supports draft resolution A/71/L.3, 
submitted by Cuba.
Mr. Mangisi (Tonga): Let me start by recognizing 
and  welcoming  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno  Eduardo  Rodríguez 
Parrilla.
We also align our statement with that delivered by 
the representative of the Kingdom of Thailand as Chair 
of the Group of 77 and China.
As  speakers  have  reiterated  before  me,  and  as 
undoubtedly the majority will do so after me as well, the 
decades of the operation of the economic, commercial 
and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  our  friend  the 
United  States  on  another  friend  of  ours,  Cuba,  has 
caused  and  continues  to  cause  significant  economic 
damage, counted in the billions of dollars, resulting in 
the  continuing  immeasurable  suffering  of  the  people 
of  Cuba.  As  the  longest-lasting  system  of  unilateral 
sanctions ever applied to one country, it unjustly hinders 
the  economic  and  social  development  of  the  Cuban 
people. As a fellow small island developing State facing 
similar challenges, we feel and recognize the injustice 
of  the  embargo.  We  therefore  join  the  call  to  end  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
against Cuba.
Our  call  this  morning  cuts  deeper,  at  a  more 
personal  level  as  well.  In  talking  about  friendships 
between our country and the United States and Cuba, 
our  solidarity  regarding  the  hardships  and  challenges 
imposed on the Cuban people should be understood at 
a personal level, given that we have nationals who are 
living side by side with the Cuban people on the ground 
as students. As a friend of the United States, we wish 
to reiterate again to the United States that the effects of 
such an archaic form of interference and intervention in 
the domestic and sovereign affairs of Cuba also results 
in undue difficulty to the lives of our nationals who are 
16-34312
11/27
A/71/PV.32 
26/10/2016
striving,  along  with  the  Cuban  people,  to  get  by  on  a 
daily basis. 
enduring full support for and solidarity with the people 
and the Government of Cuba.
My  Permanent  Representative,  who  unfortunately 
cannot  be  here  today  because  of  official  travel,  looks 
forward  to  presenting  his  credentials  in  Havana  next 
month and to meeting with our nationals in the hope of 
getting some reprieve for them because of the difficult 
situation that they are living in owing to the challenges 
imposed  on  them  by  the  embargo,  and  thereby,  by 
extension,  on  Tonga  as  a  country.  It  is  more  personal 
to  us  to  that  extent,  and,  as  a  friend  to  a  friend,  we 
reach  out  to  the  United  States  to  encourage  it  to  see 
the  negativity  that  the  embargo  creates,  not  only  in 
terms  of  its  relationship  with  Cuba  but  also  for  other 
countries that may be, or are, unduly affected as well 
by the embargo, like my own.
We  recognize  the  positive  steps  that  the  United 
States has taken to date in its relationship with Cuba. 
Clearly,  though,  those  steps  may  not  be  enough,  as 
the  Cuban  people,  along  with  our  own  nationals,  are 
still  experiencing  challenges,  which  we  often  do  not 
recognize,  and  they  are  being  deprived  of  things  that 
we take for granted here in the comforts of New York 
and  at  Headquarters.  With  elections  looming  here  in 
the  host  country,  we  pray  that  the  good  works  of  the 
current  Administration  will  be  carried  forward  and 
that,  in  the  meantime,  the  President  of  the  United 
States  will  still  use  his  executive  powers  to  improve 
further its relations with Cuba before having to resort 
to congressional action.
We  therefore  reiterate  our  support  for  the  right 
of  the  Cuban  people  to  enjoy  full  freedom  in  their 
economic  and  social  development,  and  we  call  for  an 
end to the embargo imposed upon them.
Mr.  Moustafa  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  align  myself  with  the  statements  delivered 
by  the  representative  of  Thailand  on  behalf  of  the 
Group  of  77  and  China,  by  the  representative  of 
Venezuela on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned 
Countries,  by  the  representative  of  Kuwait  on  behalf 
of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation and by the 
representative  of  the  Niger  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States. I would also like to make the following 
additional brief remarks.
This  year  has  witnessed  important  developments 
in the bilateral relations between Cuba and the United 
States, including the visit by the United States President 
to  Cuba  last  March.  We  welcome  such  developments 
in bilateral relations and encourage further steps along 
that path. Nonetheless, the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States against 
Cuba  remains  in  place.  The  impact  of  such  unilateral 
measures  and  the  cost  imposed  on  the  Cuban  people 
and  economy  are  staggering.  Between  March  2015 
and March 2016 the cost of the sanctions imposed on 
Cuba  has  been  estimated  at  over  $4.68  billion  —  a 
staggering amount.
As  I  mentioned  earlier,  Egypt  will  always  be  a 
steadfast  supporter  of  the  rights  of  the  Cuban  people 
and  their  demands  to  end  the  current  situation.  We 
reject  the  current  unilateral  embargo  policy,  which 
transgresses international legitimacy. For five decades 
that  policy  has  adversely  affected  the  Cuban  people’s 
access  to  food,  medicines,  education  and  advanced 
technology.
We  encourage  the  United  States  to  take  brave 
decisions and steps to immediately lift of the embargo 
imposed  on  Cuba.  We  hope  that  such  steps  will  pave 
the way for the normalization of the bilateral relations 
between the two countries in all spheres.
Mr. Mminele (South Africa): South Africa aligns 
itself with the statements delivered by the representative 
of the Kingdom of Thailand on behalf of the Group of 
77  and  China  and  by  the  representative  of  Venezuela 
on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
We also acknowledge the presence of the Foreign 
Minister of Cuba.
My delegation supports draft resolution A/71/L.3. 
We  believe  that  it  provides  a  good  basis  for  finally 
ending the embargo against Cuba and its people. South 
Africa and Cuba have a long-standing relationship and 
solidarity dating back to the struggle against apartheid 
and  colonialism  in  Southern  Africa.  We  take  note  of 
the report of the Secretary-General (A/71/91) issued on 
21 July, which provides an assessment of where we are 
on the issue.
It  is  with  great  pleasure  that  we  welcome  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, and assure him of Egypt’s 
The  Government  of  South  Africa  welcomes  the 
historic  rapprochement  between  the  United  States  of 
America and Cuba and the visit to Cuba by President 
12/27 
16-34312
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.32
Barack Obama in March — the first visit to Cuba by a 
sitting President of the United States in nearly 90 years. 
We hope that the next United States President will carry 
forward  that  rapprochement,  as  well  as  take  all  the 
necessary measures within his or her broad executive 
powers to deal with all outstanding issues.
and medical sciences, over 2,800 South African students 
are currently undertaking medical training in Cuba in 
order to help them qualify as medical doctors. So far, 
500  South  Africans  from  disadvantaged  backgrounds 
have  graduated  as  medical  doctors  after  receiving 
training in Cuba.
South  Africa  remains  seriously  concerned  about 
the illegal nature of the imposition of the blockade and 
about the immense human and economic suffering and 
hardship endured by the people of Cuba for more than 
half a century. Almost two years after the Governments 
of Cuba and the United States decided to rekindle their 
diplomatic  relations  and  begin  a  process  towards  the 
normalization of their diplomatic relations, there have 
been  no  substantial  changes  in  the  application  of  the 
embargo policy in the national banking system.
Cuban  monetary  assets  abroad  continue  to  be 
persecuted by the embargo and its repercussions. That 
unhealthy state of affairs cannot be allowed to carry on, 
as it adversely affects the economic aspirations of Cuba 
and its people. It is critical that banking institutions in 
Cuba  be  permitted  to  make  financial  transactions  in 
United States dollars so that bilateral and commercial 
relations  between  the  two  countries  can  be  tangible 
and meaningful.
The  current  dire  situation  is  aggravated  by  the 
state of uncertainty faced by banks in third countries. 
We  would  like  to  request  Member  States  to  support 
Cuba and its people by scrapping any domestic laws or 
regulations that continue to hamper the development of 
Cuba and its people.
Cuba  continues  to  be  a  beacon  of  hope  for  many 
developing countries, and it plays its role in making this 
world  a  better  place  for  all  humankind.  However,  for 
Cuba the embargo remains the most significant obstacle 
in  its  quest  to  realize  its  development  objectives, 
including  those  enshrined  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
In  the  midst  of  the  current  global  challenges  and 
related  uncertainties  that  continue  to  hamper  the 
economic  development  of  the  Global  South,  there  are 
positive  activities  taking  place  under  South-South 
cooperation.  In  that  regard,  South  Africa  would  like 
to  make  a  special  mention  of  one  of  Cuba’s  many 
contributions to South Africa.
Under  the  auspices  of  the  South  Africa-Cuba 
agreement on cooperation in the fields of public health 
its 
for 
support 
unconditional 
In  conclusion,  the  Republic  of  South  Africa 
reiterates 
the 
implementation  of  this  year’s  draft  resolution  on  the 
embargo. We take this opportunity to appeal once again 
to the international community to redouble its efforts 
to  promote  constructive  and  transparent  dialogue 
between the two countries with a view to achieving the 
objectives of all the many previous resolutions adopted 
by the United Nations on the matter and to ensuring the 
sustainable further progress of the people of Cuba. The 
international community cannot, and should not, wait 
any longer for this matter to be resolved, if we are truly 
committed to leaving no one behind.
Mr. Sobrai Duarte (Brazil) (spoke in Spanish): My 
delegation aligns itself with the statements made by the 
representative of Thailand on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China and by the representative of the Dominican 
Republic on behalf of Community of Latin American 
and Caribbean States. I make the following statement 
in my national capacity.
For  decades 
the  Brazilian  Government  has 
supported  the  normalization  of  the  relations  between 
the  United  States  of  America  and  Cuba.  It  was  with 
great satisfaction that Brazil received the news of the 
re-establishment of diplomatic relations between the two 
countries,  thus  overcoming  anachronistic  animosities 
and generating positive effects for our entire region. It 
is  especially  symbolic  that,  almost  90  years  after  the 
last United States presidential visit to Cuba, President 
Barack Obama visited Havana in March this year.
the 
We 
enthusiastically  welcome 
recent 
appointments of the Cuban Ambassador to Washington 
and the United States Ambassador to Havana, which is 
still awaiting approval from the United States Senate. 
We  also  welcome  the  concrete  measures  directly 
affecting the lives of citizens in both countries, such as 
the establishment of aerial, maritime and postal links 
and the facilitation of financial remittances.
Despite those advances, the well-being of the Cuban 
people, particularly those who are the poorest and most 
vulnerable, continues to be negatively affected by the 
blockade. We recognize the efforts of the President of 
16-34312
13/27
A/71/PV.32 
26/10/2016
the United States to put an end to the embargo, and we 
consider  it  essential  that  the  United  States  Congress 
begin  discussions  regarding  the  elimination  of  the 
embargo. The lifting of the embargo against Cuba has 
the indisputable support of the international community, 
made clear by the 191 votes in favour of resolution 70/5 
at the previous session of the General Assembly.
My delegation is confident that the time has come 
for  dialogue  and  cooperation,  which  could  promptly 
lead to the end of the blockade.
Mr.  Sevilla  Borja  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The unilateral blockade imposed by the United States 
against  Cuba  for  56  years  is  a  blatant  example  of  the 
reprehensible implementation of power politics. It will 
remain in the annals of history as a clear demonstration 
of  abusive  behaviour  by  a  super-Power  against  a 
dignified and proud people who jealously cling to their 
sovereignty. This is shameful disregard by that super-
Power for international law and the virtually unanimous 
opinion  of  the  international  community,  which  year 
after  year  at  the  General  Assembly  has  demanded  an 
end to that policy.
That behaviour comes from a country that in 1776 
inspired  the  peoples  of  the  world  with  its  struggle 
for  decolonization,  independence  and  freedom.  It  is 
the  country  that  joined  the  Allies  to  defeat  nazism 
and  fascism,  thereby  saving  humankind.  An  original 
signatory  of  the  Charter  of  San  Francisco,  its  people, 
under  the  leadership  of  Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.,  and 
Malcolm  X,  fought  for  the  equality  of  human  beings 
without regard for the colour of their skin. We hope that 
President  Obama,  who  has  lately  taken  bold,  positive 
steps with regard to Cuba, will now, at the end of his 
term, adopt measures consistent with the best traditions 
of the history of his country.
With draft resolution A/71/L.3, which we will adopt 
in  a  few  minutes,  such  anti-historical  stubbornness 
to  maintain  an  illegal  and  abusive  blockade  will  be 
morally condemned once more, to the embarrassment of 
its practitioners. The Cuban people already triumphed, 
and their revolution persists and serves as an example.
Mrs.  Rubiales  de  Chamorro  (Nicaragua)  (spoke 
in Spanish): We thank our dear colleagues from Cuba, 
including  our  brother  and  comrade  Foreign  Minister 
Bruno Rodríguez, for their presence here today.
We appreciate the updated information for the year 
2016 that we have received in the Secretary-General’s 
report on the impact of the criminal economic, financial 
and  commercial  blockade  against  the  people  and  the 
Government of Cuba (A/71/91).
Cuba knows of and can be assured of our support 
and our unconditional solidarity. The Cuban revolution 
started  with  firmness  and  determination  in  its  first 
steps  towards  dignity  and  the  restitution  of  the 
political,  economic  and  social  rights  of  the  peoples 
of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean.  After  a  more 
than five decades of resistance, the Cuban people and 
Government have created values personalizing dignity 
and  sovereignty,  reaffirming  their  socialist  revolution 
and humanist values. 
Cuba  has  always  been  the  first  to  respond  to  our 
needs of all kinds in disasters or emergency situations. 
With  reference  to  the  Cuba  of  Fidel  and  Raúl  and  all 
their daughters and sons, Commander President Daniel 
Ortega rightly said at the ninetieth birthday celebration 
of Fidel:
“We  have  learned  so  much  from  Fidel.  He  has 
taught  us  so  much  by  his  ardent  words,  his 
eloquence, his unique mission of justice, solidarity 
and  complementarity  in  our  efforts 
to  unite 
and  develop  together  our  vigor  and  talents,  our 
cultures  and  our  citizenship  in  a  free,  sovereign 
and 
independent  nation.  Our  American  and 
Caribbean  peoples  —  homeland  and  fighting 
peoples,  homeland  and  valiant  peoples,  homeland 
and  peoples  who  have  forged  revolution  and 
evolution in dignity and pride.”
We  are  delighted  with  the  restoration  of  the 
relationship  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of 
America. However, it is disappointing to note that the 
blockade continues. Despite the measures announced, 
the  blockade  persists.  There  are  also  the  persistent 
will  and  policies  to  promote  and  impose  changes  in 
the  economic,  political  and  social  order  of  Cuba,  and 
the  intention  to  continue  developing  programmes  of 
interference.
It  is  unacceptable  to  our  country  that  coercive 
and  unilateral  economic  measures  are  being  used  as 
a  selective  political  instrument  to  attack  independent 
peoples  and  to  implement  policies  of  regime  change. 
The  prolonged  negative  effect  of  the  blockade  has 
been  and  continues  to  be  the  main  obstacle  to  the 
sustainable  development  of  the  Cuban  people.  It  is 
totally contrary to the approval of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  and  its  implementation,  to 
14/27 
16-34312
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.32
which all Member States have committed. The historic 
and  anachronistic  blockade  imposed  on  that  heroic 
people  and  Government  in  violation  of  international 
law has been rejected by 191 countries, affirming that 
the mobilizing role of the international community has 
been, and will continue to be, essential for the lifting of 
the blockade.
While  the  Government  of  the  United  States  of 
America  persists  in  its  failed  and  isolated  policy 
against the people and Government of Cuba, and while 
it continues to ignore the universal call by the peoples 
of the world, including its own, the General Assembly 
will continue to demand the end and total dismantling 
of its inhumane, illegal and criminal blockade, which 
is  supported  by  just  two  countries  that  have  rebelled 
against  the  will  of  the  international  community.  As 
long as the United States does not abandon its policy of 
interference and imposition, whether through coercive 
measures or efforts to achieve a change of Government, 
against  Cuba  and  other  developing  countries,  we  will 
have  to  continue  presenting  draft  resolutions  on  the 
topic  to  the  General  Assembly.  My  delegation  will 
continue  to  support  such  draft  resolutions,  including 
that in A/71/L.3, presented today by our sister country 
of Cuba. We will vote in favour of it. 
The  international  community  hopes  that  in  2016 
the  United  States  will  finally  demonstrate  greater 
political will so that this draft resolution can be adopted 
without a vote and we can finally witness the end of the 
blockade against Cuba, which will require guarantees 
ensuring the practical, total and complete dismantling 
of the blockade. Then the United States will be acting 
in  harmony  with  the  desires  and  aspirations  of  the 
international community.
In conclusion, I reiterate that Latin America and the 
Caribbean will continue to demand that the Government 
of  the  United  States  change  its  policy  towards  our 
continent. We want peace, respect and non-interference 
and the final and complete dismantling of the criminal 
blockade  against  Cuba,  as  well  as  the  return  to  the 
fraternal Cuban people of their legitimate territory of 
Guantánamo.
Ms.  Power  (United  States  of  America):  For  more 
than 50 years, the United States had a policy aimed at 
isolating the Government of Cuba. For roughly half of 
those years, Member States voted overwhelmingly for 
a  General  Assembly  draft  resolution  condemning  the 
United States embargo and calling for it to be ended. 
The United States has always voted against this draft 
resolution; today the United States will abstain. Let me 
explain why.
In  December  2014,  President  Obama  made  clear 
his  opposition  to  the  embargo  and  called  on  our 
Congress to take action to lift it. Yet while the Obama 
Administration agrees that the United States embargo 
on  Cuba  should  be  lifted,  it  is  not  for  the  reason 
stated  in  the  draft  resolution  before  us  (A/71/L.3). 
All  actions  of  the  United  States  with  regard  to  Cuba 
have been, and are, in conformity with the Charter of 
the  United  Nations  and  international  law,  including 
applicable  trade  law  and  the  customary  law  of  the 
sea. We categorically reject the statements in the draft 
resolution that suggest otherwise.
But  the  draft  resolution  being  voted  on  today  is 
a  perfect  example  of  why  the  United  States  policy  of 
isolation  towards  Cuba  was  not  working —  or  worse, 
how  it  was  actually  undermining  the  very  goals  it 
set  out  to  achieve.  Instead  of  isolating  Cuba,  our 
policy  has,  as  President  Obama  has  repeatedly  said, 
isolated  the  United  States,  including  right  here  at  the 
United Nations.
Under  President  Obama  we  have  adopted  a  new 
approach: rather than to try to close off Cuba from the 
rest  of  the  world,  we  want  the  world  of  opportunities 
and ideas to open its doors to the people of Cuba. After 
over 50 years of pursuing the path of isolation, we have 
chosen  to  take  the  path  of  engagement,  because,  as 
President Obama said in Havana, we recognize that the 
future  of  the  island  of  course  lies  in  the  hands  of  the 
Cuban people.
the  shift 
In  the  nearly  two  years  since  President  Obama 
announced 
in  our  approach,  we  have 
amended  the  regulations  implementing  the  embargo 
six  times  —  most  recently  on  14  October  —  while 
finding  ways  to  increase  engagement  between  our 
Governments and our peoples. We have re-established 
diplomatic  relations  with  the  Government  of  Cuba, 
reopened embassies in our respective capitals, resumed 
regularly  scheduled  commercial  flights  between  the 
United  States  and  Cuba,  facilitated  people-to-people 
travel, eased restrictions on American businesses and 
entrepreneurs  who  want  to  do  business  in  Cuba,  and 
stopped limiting how often Cuban-Americans can visit 
their families on the island.
President  Obama  memorably  became  the  first 
sitting United States President to visit Cuba since 1928; 
16-34312
15/27
A/71/PV.32 
26/10/2016
and, in a much more modest journey here in New York, 
I  made  the  first  visit  by  a  United  States  Ambassador 
to the United Nations to Cuba’s Permanent Mission to 
the United Nations since the Cuban revolution. Today 
we add to that list the first United States abstention on 
the  General  Assembly  draft  resolution  calling  for  the 
embargo to be ended.
Abstaining  on  the  draft  resolution  does  not  mean 
that  the  United  States  agrees  with  all  of  the  policies 
and  practices  of  the  Cuban  Government.  We  do 
not.  We  are  profoundly  concerned  by  the  serious 
human  rights  violations  that  the  Cuban  Government 
continues  to  commit  with  impunity  against  its  own 
people  —  including  arbitrarily  detaining  those  who 
criticize  the  Government,  threatening,  intimidating 
and  at  times  physically  assaulting  citizens  who  take 
part  in  peaceful  marches  and  meetings  and  severely 
restricting the access that people on the island have to 
outside information.
As President Obama made clear when he travelled 
to  Havana,  we  believe  that  the  Cuban  people,  like  all 
peoples, are entitled to basic human rights, such as the 
right  to  speak  their  minds  without  fear  and  the  right 
to  assemble,  organize  and  protest  peacefully.  We  say 
that  not  because  those  views  reflect  a  United  States-
centric  conception  of  rights,  but  rather  because  they 
are universal human rights — enshrined in the Charter 
of the United Nations and in the Universal Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  —  that  all  193  Member  States  are 
supposed  to  respect  and  defend.  They  are  rights 
that  are  essential  for  the  dignity  of  men,  women  and 
children regardless of where they live or what kind of 
Government they have.
Let  me  be  among  the  first  to  acknowledge  that, 
as our Cuban counterparts have often pointed out, the 
United States has work to do in ensuring those rights 
for  our  own  citizens.  We  know  that  at  times  in  our 
history United States leaders and citizens have used the 
pretext  of  promoting  democracy  and  human  rights  in 
the region to justify actions that have left a deep legacy 
of  mistrust.  We  recognize  that  our  history,  in  which 
there  is  so  much  that  makes  us  proud,  also  gives  us 
ample reason to be humble.
We  also  recognize  the  areas  in  which  the  Cuban 
Government has made significant progress in advancing 
the welfare of its people, from significantly reducing its 
child mortality rate to ensuring that girls have the same 
access to primary and secondary school as boys.
But  none  of  that  means  that  we  should  stay 
silent  when  the  rights  of  the  Cuban  people  are  being 
violated  —  as  Member  States  here  at  the  United 
Nations  have  too  often  done.  That  is  why  the  United 
States  raised  those  concerns  directly  with  the  Cuban 
Government  during  our  historic  dialogue  on  human 
rights in Havana on 14 October, which shows that, while 
our Governments continue to disagree on fundamental 
questions  of  human  rights,  we  have  found  a  way  to 
discuss  those  issues  in  a  respectful  and  reciprocal 
manner.  We  urge  other  Member  States  to  speak  up 
about those issues as well.
The  United  States  believes  that  there  is  a  great 
deal that we can do together with Cuba to tackle global 
challenges.  That  includes  here  at  the  United  Nations, 
where  the  decades-long  enmity  between  our  nations 
has  at  best  been  a  distraction  from  and,  at  worst,  an 
obstacle  to  carrying  out  some  of  the  most  important 
work  of  this  institution  and  helping  the  world’s  most 
vulnerable people.
Let me conclude by giving just one example — a 
very moving example. In 2014, we were confronted with 
the deadliest outbreak of Ebola in our planet’s history. 
The  most  dire  predictions  estimated  that  more  than 
1 million people could be infected within a few months. 
Yet  while  experts  made  clear  that  the  only  way  to 
stop the epidemic was to confront it at its source, the 
international  community  was  slow  to  step  up.  Many 
were paralysed.
It was in that context that President Obama decided 
to  deploy  more  than  3,000  United  States  personnel 
to  the  epicentre  of  the  outbreak,  where  they  joined 
hundreds of Americans working for non-governmental 
organizations  and  humanitarian  agencies 
the 
hardest-hit  areas.  President  Obama  also  set  about 
rallying  other  Member  States  to  do  their  part.  One 
of  the  very  first  countries  to  step  forward  was  Cuba, 
which  sent  more  than  200  health  professionals  to  the 
region — an awe-inspiring contribution for a country 
of just 11 million people.
in 
One  of  them  was  a  43-year-old  Cuban  doctor 
named  Félix  Báez  Sarría,  who  was  dispatched  to  an 
Ebola treatment unit in Sierra Leone. In the course of 
treating those infected, Dr. Báez Sarría came down with 
the symptoms of the virus, and he quickly went from 
being  the  doctor  to  being  a  patient.  As  his  condition 
deteriorated,  he  was  airlifted  to  Geneva,  where  for 
two  days  he  drifted  in  and  out  of  consciousness.  He 
16/27 
16-34312
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.32
nearly  died,  yet  miraculously  he  pulled  through,  and 
eventually  returned  to  Havana,  where  he  says  he 
regained his strength by cradling his 2-year-old son.
I  would  like  members  to  think,  just  for  one 
moment, about what it took to save the life of Dr. Báez 
Sarría  —  a  man  who  risked  his  life  to  save  people 
from  a  country  on  the  other  side  of  the  world.  He 
was  initially  treated  in  the  clinic  where  he  worked, 
which had been built with the help of a United States-
based  non-governmental  organization.  From  there  he 
was  transported  to  a  clinic  run  by  doctors  from  the 
British  Ministry  of  Defence.  Then  he  was  airlifted  to 
Switzerland aboard a medical transport plane operated 
by an American charter service. Upon arriving at the 
hospital  in  Geneva  he  was  treated  by  Swiss  doctors 
with a Canadian-developed experimental treatment.
Look at all the nations that played a part in saving 
the  life  of  that  brave  doctor  —  a  doctor  who,  after 
recuperating  in  Havana,  actually  chose  to  return  to 
Sierra  Leone  so  that  he  could  rejoin  his  colleagues 
in  the  field  in  saving  the  lives  of  Sierra  Leoneans. 
Dr.  Báez  Sarría  and  all  his  colleagues  belonged  to 
Cuba’s  Henry  Reeve  Contingent,  which  responds  to 
international disasters and epidemics. It takes its name 
from a young American born in Brooklyn, who at the 
age of 19 travelled to Cuba to join the country’s struggle 
for  independence  and  gave  his  life,  in  1876,  fighting 
alongside Cubans for their freedom.
The President returned to the Chair.
When  Dr.  Báez  Sarría  returned  to  Sierra  Leone  he 
was asked why he had come back after all he had been 
through. He said simply,
“I needed to come back. Ebola is a challenge that I 
must fight to the finish here in order to keep it from 
spreading to the rest of the world.”
What  I  have  just  described  is  what  the  United 
Nations  looks  like  when  it  works.  Noble  efforts  like 
those are precisely why the United States and Cuba must 
continue to find ways to engage, even as our differences 
persist. Today we will take another small step to be able 
to do that. May there be many more — including, we 
hope,  finally  ending  the  United  States  embargo  once 
and for all.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba, to introduce draft resolution 
A/71/L.3.
fighters 
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
Almost two years have passed since President Barack 
Obama announced his willingness to use his executive 
powers and to work with Congress to lift the blockade 
against  Cuba.  During  that  period,  the  three  Cuban 
anti-terrorist 
the  unjustifiable 
inclusion of Cuba on the so-called list of State sponsors 
of  international  terrorism  was  eliminated;  diplomatic 
relations were restored and embassies were reopened in 
the respective capitals; and the President of the United 
States, the Secretary of State and other members of the 
Cabinet visited Havana, along with dozens of senators, 
representatives and persons from many sectors.
returned; 
There is no doubt that progress has been made in 
dialogue and cooperation on issues of common interest, 
and  a  dozen  agreements  rendering  reciprocal  benefits 
have been signed. And now the United States has just 
announced  that  it  will  abstain  in  the  voting  on  draft 
resolution A/71/L.3.
However, the economic, commercial and financial 
blockade  persists,  harming  the  Cuban  people  and 
hindering the country’s economic development. Given 
its  marked  extraterritorial  character,  the  blockade 
also directly affects all States Members of the United 
Nations.  The  United  States  leader  and  other  senior 
officials  have  described  it  as  obsolete,  useless  in 
advancing American interests, failed, meaningless and 
unviable,  a  burden  for  citizens  that  harms  the  Cuban 
people and causes the United States to be isolated. The 
embargo should be lifted.
It  has  taken  24  years  to  change  the  lone  vote  of 
the United States of America in this Hall. It has been 
24 years, as Ambassador Samantha Power has said, of 
isolation and failure. The 58 years of heroic resistance 
by our people serve as a backdrop for what is occurring. 
At this time, I am thinking of my people, of Fidel and 
Raúl, and of the young Cubans who have inherited our 
long, glorious struggle.
Some people have asked me why I am introducing 
the  draft  resolution  again  to  the  General  Assembly.  I 
cannot in any way underestimate the powerful political 
and  moral  message  that  the  Assembly  is  sending  to 
the peoples of the world. Truth always opens the way; 
justice ends up winning. The abstention just announced 
is certainly a positive step for the future of improving 
relations between the United States and Cuba. I thank 
Ambassador Power for her words and efforts. 
16-34312
17/27
A/71/PV.32 
26/10/2016
However,  most  of  the  executive  regulations  and 
laws  establishing  the  blockade  remain  in  force  and 
are  being  rigorously  implemented  by  United  States 
Government agencies. We recognize that the executive 
measures  adopted  by  the  Government  of  the  United 
States are positive steps, but they have a very limited 
scope  and  effect.  The  measures  taken  in  the  area  of 
telecommunications,  unfortunately,  pursue  openly 
declared  political  and  interventionist  objectives,  but 
they show how broad the powers of the President are. 
If  he  wanted  to,  he  could  authorize,  tomorrow,  trade, 
private  loans  and  investments  in  all  sectors  of  the 
Cuban economy.
The measures relating to trade with small private 
businesses — which measures are also, unfortunately, 
explicitly  politically  motivated  —  will  not  work  on  a 
substantial scale as long as the economic organization 
and  structures  of  Cuba’s  foreign  trade  are  not  taken 
into account. Nevertheless, they show that in the area 
of  trade  there  could  be  progress  even  if  the  blockade 
laws remain unchanged.
Some  United  States  spokespersons  have  said  that 
the Cuban system hinders the implementation of such 
measures. They know that that is not correct. It is the 
whole of the embargo that determines the current reality. 
It is obvious and well known that the President of the 
United  States  has  broad  executive  powers  that  he  has 
not  used.  He  could  substantially  modify  the  practical 
implementation  of  the  blockade  and  its  humanitarian 
and economic impact.  Does this change of vote mean 
that he will use those powers with determination? 
Only  12  days  ago,  the  United  States  Department 
of  the  Treasury  and  the  Department  of  Commerce 
announced  new  measures  that,  although  positive, 
have  very  limited  scope.  Mostly  they  are  designed  to 
broaden  previously  authorized  transactions.  Rather 
than  benefit  Cuba  and  the  Cuban  people,  they  favour 
the United States.
There  is  some  good  news.  From  now  on,  United 
States citizens who are authorized by their Government 
to  visit  Cuba  or  are  travelling  to  other  countries, 
will  be  allowed  to  buy  and  carry  with  them  in  their 
personal  luggage  Cuban  products,  without  a  limit  on 
value, including rum and tobacco — whatever will fit 
into  their  personal  luggage.  Nevertheless,  exporting 
those products to the United States is still prohibited. 
Why  is  that?  Unless  there  are  specific  licenses,  the 
new measures allow neither United States investments 
in  our  country  nor  joint  ventures,  not  even  for  the 
production of Cuban pharmaceutical and biotechnology 
products — whose commercialization and distribution 
in the United States has, fortunately, been authorized, 
provided they receive approval from the United States 
Food and Drug Administration.
Exports  from  the  United  States  to  Cuba  have  not 
been  expanded  beyond  the  previously  authorized 
limited sales, which exclude key sectors of the Cuban 
economy.  No  announcement  has  been  made  of  other 
changes in the financial sector, thus the ban on opening 
transfer  accounts  by  Cuban  banks  in  similar  United 
States institutions is still in effect.
For  its  part,  the  United  States  Congress  has  not 
approved  any  of  the  20  amendments  or  legislative 
initiatives that, with bipartisan support, have proposed 
eliminating  some  restrictions  in  the  blockade,  or 
even the whole policy. On the contrary, more than 50 
legislative initiatives have been introduced that threaten 
to reinforce basic aspects of the blockade and to prevent 
the  President  from  issuing  new  executive  orders  or 
from implementing the measures already adopted. Nor 
have specific Government actions been undertaken in 
that regard.
It  is  therefore  necessary  to  judge  on  the  basis  of 
the  facts.  The  most  important  and  obvious  step  is 
to  dismantle  the  blockade  —  more  important  than 
speeches,  press  statements  or  even  the  vote  of  a 
delegation in this Hall. To reiterate, we must judge on 
the basis of the facts. 
The human damage resulting from the blockade is 
incalculable. There is no Cuban family or industry in 
the country that has not suffered its effects on health, 
education,  food,  services,  the  prices  of  goods  and 
wages and pensions. The imposition of discriminatory 
and  onerous  conditions,  together  with  the  deterrent 
effects  of  the  blockade,  restricts  food  purchases  and 
acquisitions  on  the  United  States  market  of  drugs, 
reagents,  spare  parts  for  medical  equipment  and 
instruments and others.
The  United  States  company  Medtronic  could  not 
establish  contracts  with  Cuban  companies  to  sell  its 
deep  brain  stimulators  to  treat  Cuban  patients  with 
Parkinson’s  disease  and  other  neurological  disorders.
Very recently it claimed this was due to restrictions of 
the blockade. Nor was it possible for the multinational 
company Sigma-Aldrich to provide means of protection 
and chemical and biotechnological products requested 
18/27 
16-34312
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.32
by the Cuban company Farmacuba for the manufacture 
of drugs in the country.
In  May,  the  United  States  Nuclear  Regulatory 
Commission  notified  the  United  States  branch  of  the 
German company Eckert and Ziegler that it would deny 
its application for a license to provide its products to the 
Dutch company Philips, which is the calibration source 
for  medical  equipment  acquired  by  the  Oncology 
Institute in Cuba in 2013, affecting a vital service for 
cancer patients.
On  26  September,  the  Italian  supplier  of  medical 
equipment  Emildue  notified 
the  Cuban  company 
Medicuba  that  the  United  States  company  Boston 
Scientific Corporation refused to sell a radio-frequency 
generator of the Cosman brand for diagnosing cancer. 
The  blockade  also  affects  the  interests  of  American 
citizens  themselves,  who  could  benefit  from  various 
services in Cuba, including health care.
I  express  thanks  to  Ambassador  Samantha  Power 
for  her  heartfelt  words,  and  I  share  her  sentiments 
concerning the symbolic case of Dr. Félix Sarría Báez. 
That is an example of how much we could accomplish 
when there is international cooperation. 
However,  it  cannot  be  forgotten  that  during  the 
tragic  time  of  the  Ebola  epidemic  in  West  Africa, 
the  deployment  of  Cuban  medical  aid  was  hampered 
by  the  refusal  of  the  British  Standard  Chartered 
Bank  to  make  transfers  between  the  World  Health 
Organization and the Cuban Medical Brigades, whose 
members — including  Dr. Sarría Báez — risked their 
lives  serving  in  direct  contact  with  patients.  Even 
under those extreme conditions, such transfers required 
specific authorizations from the Treasury Department. 
The  Uganda  branch  of  that  bank  closed  the  personal 
accounts of Cuban health workers in that country, and 
a Barclays Bank subsidiary also prevented them from 
making  transfers  to  Cuba.  The  same  thing  happened 
with the Cuban cooperation personnel in the education 
sector in other countries. 
These  examples  demonstrate  the  complex  reality 
between the United States and Cuba. Nevertheless, this 
morning’s focus is encouraging. Given the United States 
change  in  vote,  one  could  ask  whether  such  practices 
will cease.
No  transfers  were  possible  in  August  in  cases 
involving  maternal,  child  and  ophthalmological 
services  in  Algeria,  owing  to  refusals  on  the  part  of 
the transfer services of the Commerzbank of Germany 
and  KBC  Bank  of  Belgium.  Under  the  shameful 
Cuban  Medical  Professional  Parole  Program  for 
Cubans  working  in  other  countries,  the  United  States 
attempts to hamper medical cooperation and to deprive 
those  countries  and  my  own  of  indispensable,  highly 
qualified human resources. Last month, banks based in 
Pakistan refused to open a letter of credit requested by 
a company of that country for the purchase of 100,000 
doses  of  the  hepatitis  B  vaccine,  on  the  grounds  that 
Cuba was a country under United States sanctions.
The  legal  ban  preventing  American  citizens  from 
freely travelling to Cuba remains in force, which is a 
violation  of  their  civil  liberties  and  rights  —  though 
travel  has  been  facilitated,  under  general  licenses, 
only  for  purposes  corresponding  to  the  12  categories 
authorized by United States law. A United States citizen 
runs  the  risk  of  paying  a  $100,000  fine  for  having 
travelled to Cuba accompanied by several persons. 
The  blockade  continues  to  be  a  massive,  flagrant 
and  systematic  violation  of  the  human  rights  of  all 
Cuban  men  and  women  and  qualifies  as  an  act  of 
genocide under the Convention on the Prevention and 
Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, of 1948. It is an 
obstacle  to  international  cooperation  in  humanitarian 
areas.
According  to  rigorous,  careful  and  conservative 
estimates,  between  April  2015  and  March  2016,  the 
direct  economic  damage  incurred  by  Cuba  owing 
directly  to  the  blockade  amounted  to  $4.68  billion  in 
today’s  dollars.  The  economic  damage  accumulated 
over  almost  six  decades  amounts  to  $753,688  billion, 
taking  into  account  the  depreciation  in  the  price  of 
gold.  At  current  prices,  that  amounts  to  more  than 
$125 billion dollars.
The blockade is the main obstacle to the economic 
and  social  development  of  our  people.  It  constitutes 
a  flagrant  violation  of  international  law,  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Proclamation  of  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  as  a  Zone  of  Peace.  Its 
extraterritorial  application  adds  greater  magnitude  to 
its  character  as  a  violation  of  international  law.  How 
can one object to these claims? It suffices to read the 
legal documents.
We  welcomed  the  announcement  by  the  United 
States  Department  of 
the  Treasury  authorizing 
my  country  to  use  the  United  States  dollar  in  its 
international transactions. Thus far, however, Cuba has 
16-34312
19/27
A/71/PV.32 
26/10/2016
been unable to make payments or cash deposits in that 
currency, owing to fines and the intimidating effects of 
the blockade. And in third-party countries we have seen 
an increase in the cessation of operations, the closure of 
Cuban bank accounts abroad, the denial of credit and 
the rejection of transfers to or from Cuba.
When trying to access from Cuba the website of the 
Norton  division  of  the  Symantec  company  —  which, 
among other things, provides services for blocking and 
removing malware and computer viruses — one reads, 
“In  compliance  with  applicable  United  States  laws, 
we  are  unable  to  process  your  request.”  Many  other 
websites respond that the user does not have permission 
to  access  an  Internet  address  from  their  server,  or 
simply state “access denied”.
Other factors in addition to the blockade contribute 
to our economic difficulties. These include the unjust 
international  economic  order,  the  global  crisis,  the 
historical  distortions  and 
structural  weaknesses 
of  underdevelopment,  high  dependence  on  energy 
and  food  imports,  the  effects  of  climate  change  and 
natural  disasters,  as  well  as  —  something  that  we  do 
not  hide  —  our  own  mistakes.  Our  people  and  the 
Government have fought hard to overcome that reality.
On 17 April, President Raúl Castro Ruz said,
 “We have the will to develop a respectful dialogue 
and build a new kind of relationship with the United 
States, such as has never existed between the two 
countries,  because  we  are  convinced  that  it  can 
only result in mutual benefits.”
More recently, on 17 December, he added,
 “We reaffirm our desire for relations of civilized 
coexistence with the United States, but Cuba will 
neither  renounce  even  one  of  its  principles  nor 
compromise on its sovereignty and independence.”
Historically, the Government of the United States 
initially intended to annex Cuba, and when that failed, 
it tried to exercise domination over it. On the triumph 
of the Cuban revolution, the United States Government 
set out to
The  presidential  policy  directive  published  on 
14  October  states  that  the  Government  of  the  United 
States recognizes the sovereignty and self-determination 
of Cuba  and that it is up to the Cuban people to make 
their  own  choices  about  their  future.  However,  its 
misleading  language  does  not  hide  the  intent  to  alter 
the  constitutional  order  and  promote  changes  in  the 
economic, political, social and cultural system of Cuba. 
Nor  does  it  hide  the  intention  to  continue  to  develop 
interventionist programmes that serve the interests of 
the  United  States,  nor  the  intention  to  infiltrate  them 
into sectors of Cuban society. 
The  directive  says  that  the  United  States  will  not 
pursue  regime  change  in  Cuba,  but  it  admits  that  the 
United States will
  “support  Cuba’s  emerging  ...  civil  society;  and 
encourage  partners  and  non-governmental  actors 
to  join  us  in  advocating  for  reforms.  While 
remaining  committed  to  supporting  democratic 
activists ... we will also engage community leaders, 
bloggers,  activists,  and  other  social-issue  leaders 
who can contribute to Cuba’s internal dialogue on 
civic participation.”
The directive continues, stating that United States 
will continue its 
“democracy  and  broadcasting  programmes,  while 
protecting  our  interests  and  assets,  such  as  the 
Guantánamo  Bay  Naval  Station  ....  The  United 
States  Government  has  no  intention  to  alter  the 
existing lease treaty and other arrangements related 
to the Guantánamo Bay Naval Station”.
When the directive was presented, it was said that 
“We cannot simply sit back and wait for Cuba to change 
without getting involved.” 
The  directive  claims  that  Cuba  remains  indebted 
to  the  United  States  Government  for  bilateral  debts 
incurred  before  the  Cuban  revolution.  Maybe  they 
think  that  the  Cuban  revolution  will  pay  the  debts  of 
the  bloody  dictator  Fulgencio  Batista?  They  should 
understand that we are already free, precisely because 
in 1959 we rid ourselves of United States imperialism 
and the dictatorship that it imposed on us.
“provoke  disappointment  and  discouragement 
through  economic  dissatisfaction  and  hardships 
...  denying  Cuba  money  and  supplies  to  reduce 
nominal  and  real  salaries  to  provoke  hunger, 
desperation and overthrow the Government”.
George  W.  Bush’s  “Initiative  for  a  New  Cuba”  of 
19 May 2002 sought to link the easing of the travel and 
trade bans in place to internal political and economic 
changes. Cubans responded on 26 June this year with 
8  million  signatures  in  support  of  the  constitutional 
20/27 
16-34312
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.32
amendment — which is part of the Constitution of the 
Republic  of  Cuba  —  that  proclaims  the  irrevocable 
nature of socialism in our country.
cease. The change in vote that Ambassador Power just 
announced is a promising sign. We hope that it will be 
reflected in reality. 
It would be worthwhile to acknowledge that change 
in  Cuba  is  a  sovereign  matter  of  Cubans  alone  and 
that  Cuba  is  a  truly  independent  country.  That  is  so 
because it gained its independence on its own and has 
defended it, and will continue to defend it, at the price 
of the greatest sacrifices and risks. It must known that 
our  people  seized  power,  they  empowered  themselves 
long ago, and they daily exercise sovereign power, the 
people’s  power.  Only  that  explains  why  we  are  here 
today. 
We are proud of our history and our culture, which 
are our most prized treasures. We will never forget our 
past, because that is the way to never go back to it. We 
have  already  chosen  our  path  towards  the  future.  We 
know that it is long and difficult, but we will not deviate 
from it out of naiveté or because of sirens’ songs  or by 
error.  No  force  on  Earth  can  force  us  to  do  that.  We 
have seen many dreams come true, both ours and those 
we have shared with other peoples. We have plenty of 
dreams  that  have  yet  to  be  realized.  But  they  are  our 
dreams.  We  do  not  need  dreams  that  are  alien  to  our 
culture or to our history.
The  Cuban  revolution  was  made,  and  is  being 
made every day, for the young people and by the young 
people. Cuban youth, who seem to be so much of their 
time, are just as patriotic and anti-imperialist as their 
parents  and  grandparents.  We  have  defended,  and  we 
will  defend,  our  own  values    and  symbols,  which  we 
will be enriching, but they will always be Cuban. We 
will never change them for others that are alien to us. 
We  will  struggle  to  build  a  nation  that  is  sovereign, 
independent,  socialist,  democratic,  prosperous  and 
sustainable.  We  will  not  return  to  capitalism.  As  was 
stated  by  the  Leader  of  the  Revolution,  Fidel  Castro 
Ruz, on last 19 April:
“We  will  improve  what  needs  to  be  improved, 
with  steadfast 
loyalty  and  united  strength, 
as  Martí,  Maceo  and  Gómez  did  during  their 
unstoppable march.”
The  lifting  of  the  blockade  is  the  key  to  our 
being  able  to  advance  towards  the  normalization  of 
relations  with  the  United  States.  It  is  what  will  give 
some meaning, depth and soundness to what has been 
achieved.  The  blockade  is  unjust,  inhuman,  immoral 
and illegal, and should unilaterally and unconditionally 
We  are  deeply  grateful  to  all  the  Governments 
and  peoples,  parliaments,  political  parties  and 
social  movements,  civil  society  representatives  and 
international  and  regional  organizations  that  have 
contributed  their  voices  or  votes,  year  after  year,  to 
support  the  justness  and  urgency  of  the  abolition  of 
the blockade.
We convey our sincere gratitude to the American 
people for their growing support for this lofty cause.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the debate on this item.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/71/L.3.
Before giving the floor to the speaker in explanation 
of  vote  before  the  voting,  may  I  remind  delegations 
that explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
I now call on the representative of Israel.
Mr. Danon (Israel): Israel welcomes the progress 
achieved in the relations between the United States of 
America and Cuba and hopes that it will lead to a new 
era in the region.
The President: We have heard the only speaker in 
explanation of vote before the voting.
The General Assembly will now take a decision on 
draft resolution A/71/L.3, entitled “Necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba”.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada, 
Central  African  Republic,  Chad,  Chile,  China, 
Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte 
16-34312
21/27
A/71/PV.32 
26/10/2016
d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic 
Republic  of 
the  Congo,  Denmark,  Djibouti, 
Dominica,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Estonia, 
Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada, 
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, 
Japan,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia, 
Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta,  Marshall  Islands,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal,  Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Palau,  Panama,  Papua  New 
Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao 
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, 
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands,  Somalia,  South 
Africa,  South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan, 
Suriname,  Swaziland,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-
Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Against:
None
Abstentions:
Israel, United States of America.
Draft resolution A/71/L.3 was adopted by 191 votes 
to none, with 2 abstentions (resolution 71/5).
The President: Before giving the floor to speakers 
in  explanation  of  vote  after  the  voting,  may  I  remind 
delegations that explanations of vote are limited to 10 
minutes and should be made by delegations from their 
seats.
Mr.  Ružička  (Slovakia):  Slovakia  extends  its 
congratulations to the Cuban delegation.
I have the honour to speak on behalf of the European 
Union  (EU)  and  its  member  States.  The  candidate 
countries the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 
Montenegro,  Serbia  and  Albania;  the  country  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidate  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  Liechtenstein,  a 
European Free Trade Association country and member 
of  the  European  Economic  Area;  and  the  Republic  of 
Moldova align themselves with this statement.
Since  the  re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations 
between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  and  President 
Obama’s  appeals  to  the  United  States  Congress  to 
start working towards the elimination of the embargo, 
the  situation  has  further  evolved.  The  EU  warmly 
welcomes the measures already taken and encourages 
their  further  implementation  through  relevant  steps 
by both sides. In the meantime, however, fundamental 
restrictive  measures  are  still  in  place.  Under  the  new 
circumstances, they are even more of an anachronism.
Beyond  the  damaging  impact  of  the  embargo 
on  ordinary  Cubans,  the  effects  and  side  effects 
of  extraterritorial 
legislation  and  of  unilateral 
administrative and judicial measures are also negatively 
affecting  the  economic  interests  of  all.  This  requires 
even  more  urgent  action,  given  the  greater  opening 
of  the  Cuban  economy.  American  legislation  such  as 
the Cuban Democracy Act and the Helms-Burton Act 
extended  the  effects  of  the  United  States  embargo  to 
third-party countries. In the framework of its common 
commercial policy, the European Union has firmly and 
continuously  opposed  such  extraterritorial  measures. 
While  recognizing  the  decisions  of  the  United  States 
Government  to  lift  sanctions  and  restrictions  on 
remittances  and  family  travel  to  Cuba,  to  allow  the 
provision of certain telecommunications, Internet and 
financial  services  and  to  export  tools  and  building 
materials  in  order  to  support  the  Cuban  people,  we 
cannot  accept  the  unilaterally  imposed  measures  that 
impede economic and commercial relations with Cuba.
In  that  context,  we  warmly  welcome  the  United 
States and Israeli abstention in the voting.
22/27 
16-34312
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.32
Contrary to our expectations, the situation for EU 
financial operators in and with Cuba that are targeted 
by extraterritorial sanctions has not improved, and has 
even  worsened  in  some  ways.  This  constitutes  undue 
interference and problems for EU citizens, businesses 
and non-governmental organizations living, working or 
operating in Cuba. We expect an early solution to those 
problems, as normalization with Cuba should apply to 
all interested parties.
At a summit between the European Union and the 
United States in London in May 1998, a package was 
agreed upon that also sought to alleviate the problems 
with  extraterritorial 
the 
legislation.  We  advocate 
prompt and full implementation of that agreement.
The  negotiations  on  a  political  dialogue  and 
cooperation  agreement  concluded  in  March.  That 
agreement  aims  to  consolidate  relations  and  create 
an  enabling  framework  for  more  effective  dialogue, 
improved cooperation and expanded economic relations. 
The agreement is now being finalized and is slated to be 
signed in the coming months. The bilateral agreement 
will put the entire EU-Cuban relationship on a new and 
solid legal footing. It will also be a game-changer for 
our relationship and will open more doors and forums 
for  dialogue  with  Cuba,  including  on  the  issues  on 
which we still have fundamental differences.
Human  rights  are  at  the  core  of  EU  external 
relations.  The  second  high-level  discussion  on  these 
issues took place in Havana in June. We are encouraged 
that  no  subject  will  be  off  limits  in  those  processes. 
The EU remains determined to pursue a comprehensive 
dialogue with the Cuban authorities and all sectors of 
Cuban society. 
We  reiterate 
the  right  of  Cuban  citizens 
to 
make  independent  decisions  about  their  future.  We 
call  on  the  Cuban  Government  to  fully  grant  its 
citizens 
internationally  recognized  civil,  political 
and  economic  rights  and  freedoms,  including  the 
freedom  of  assembly  and  the  freedom  of  expression 
and free access to information, as well as to ratify the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights 
and  the  International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social 
and Cultural Rights. Following the visit of the United 
Nations  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  right  to  food,  the 
Cuban Government should extend invitations to other 
rapporteurs to visit Cuba.
We  note  with  concern 
the  continued  high 
frequency  of  short-term  arrests,  but  at  the  same  time 
we welcome the continued broad application of Cuban 
citizens’  freedom  to  travel.  We  also  welcome  Cuban 
achievements  in  health  care  and  education.  On  the 
other hand, the slow pace of economic modernization 
seriously  hampers  Cuban  economic  development.  In 
that  context,  we  recall  the  August  2011  adoption  of  a 
package of economic and social reforms by the Cuban 
Government. We expect that they will be extended and 
implemented  in  a  manner  that  will  address  the  key 
needs of the Cuban population.
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  contributes  to  the 
economic problems in Cuba, thus negatively affecting 
the  standard  of  living  of  the  Cuban  people  and 
aggravating  the  humanitarian  situation  there.  Lifting 
the United States embargo could facilitate the opening 
of the Cuban economy, to the benefit of the people of 
Cuba. We again express our rejection of all unilateral 
measures  directed  against  Cuba  that  negatively  affect 
third  parties’  interests  and  thereby  violate  commonly 
accepted rules of international trade.
In the framework of our comprehensive agreement, 
we  will  work  with  Cuban  counterparts  to  consolidate 
and  expand  improvements  in  all  of  the  areas  I 
mentioned.  Through  its  cooperation  and  the  future 
framework  agreement,  the  European  Union  is  ready 
to  accompany  Cuba  along  its  path  of  reform  and 
modernization. Substantial progress has been achieved 
in a constructive spirit on the topics of human rights, 
governance and civil society, inter alia.
Against  that  background,  the  member  States  of 
the  European  Union  unanimously  voted  in  favour  of 
resolution 71/5. Once again, I congratulate the Cuban 
delegation for the result of the voting.
Mr.  Ri  Tong  Il  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea):  The  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea would like to join the previous speaker 
in extending its warm and heartfelt congratulations to 
the Cuban delegation.
Let  me  first  express  our  intention  to  associate 
ourselves with the statements by the representative of 
Venezuela and the representative of Thailand on behalf 
of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  and  the 
Group of 77 and China, respectively.
The  delegation  of 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  71/5, 
on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial 
16-34312
23/27
A/71/PV.32 
26/10/2016
and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
of  America  against  Cuba.  My  delegation  condemns 
the  United  States  embargo  against  Cuba  as  an  active 
encroachment  upon  its  sovereignty,  a  crime  against 
humanity  and  an  infringement  of  human  rights,  in 
violation  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
United States has been imposing a unilateral economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against the Republic 
of Cuba since its foundation.
The  unilateral  United  States  embargo,  which  has 
threatened  the  sovereignty  of  Cuba  and  its  right  to 
exist, is an act of hostile United States policy against 
Cuba. The damage done to the economy of Cuba due 
to  the  United  States  economic  embargo  is  estimated 
to  have  reached  astronomical  figures.  In  spite  of  the 
establishment of diplomatic relations between the two 
countries last year, the atrocious United States economic 
embargo continues to this day. There have been only a 
few modifications to its implementation measures, but 
the overall United States policy towards Cuba to bring 
about regime change through an economic embargo has 
never changed.
The  adoption  of  resolution  71/5  at  the  current 
session,  as  a  follow-up  to  resolutions  adopted  in 
previous sessions, is a reflection of the goodwill of the 
international  community  and  shows  the  Government 
and the people of Cuba the General Assembly’s support 
and solidarity. 
The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  takes  this  opportunity  to  extend  its  strong 
support  for,  and  solidarity  with,  the  Government  and 
the people of Cuba as they struggle to safeguard their 
dignity and civility in their stand against the continuance 
of the unilateral embargo by the United States.
Mr.  Rzheussky  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate 
the Cuban delegation on the outcome of the voting on 
resolution 71/5.
The  Republic  of  Belarus  welcomes  the  positive 
steps made since 2015 in terms of restoring diplomatic 
relations  between  the  United  States  of  America  and 
Cuba, the holding of meetings between leaders of the two 
countries and the easing of certain restrictive measures 
against Cuba, including the decision announced today 
about  abstaining  in  the  voting  on  today’s  resolution. 
We  also  welcome  the  signing  of  an  agreement  on  the 
normalization of relations between the European Union 
and Cuba.
The  easing  by  the  United  States  of  America  of 
certain  sanctions  against  Cuba  in  the  banking  and 
tourism  sectors,  the  restoration  of  direct  postal  and 
trade communications and the delisting of Cuba from 
the  Department  of  State’s  list  of  State  sponsors  of 
terrorism  are  important  steps  in  the  right  direction. 
However, those steps are clearly insufficient as long as 
a general trade embargo against Cuba remains in effect.
We  have  repeatedly  stressed  that  the  imposition 
of unilateral coercive measures as a means of exerting 
political and economic pressure on developing countries 
contravenes  the  core  principles  of  international  law 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
in  the  Declaration  on  Principles  of  International  Law 
concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among 
States  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  Any  attempts  by  certain  States  to  alter  the 
internal  political  systems  of  other  States  through 
military, political, economic or other means of coercion 
are  inadmissible  and  counterproductive.  That  such 
measures  are  counterproductive  was  acknowledged 
today  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  the  United 
States, Ms. Samantha Power.
President  Obama’s  recent  decision  to  extend  the 
trade  sanctions  against  Cuba  for  another  year  is  at 
odds with the recent steps and statements by officials 
in Washington. Not only does the decision hamper the 
development of the Cuban economy and encroach upon 
the  rights  and  interests  of  both  American  and  Cuban 
citizens, it also casts doubt upon the willingness of the 
United  States  to  genuinely  normalize  relations  with 
Cuba.
Belarus  urges  a  prompt  and  full  lifting  of  the 
economic,  financial  and  trade  embargo  against  Cuba 
by  the  United  States  of  America.  Only  a  full  lifting 
of  sanctions  can  demonstrate  the  intent  of  the  United 
States to normalize bilateral relations with Cuba.
Ms. Mejía Vélez (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): I 
congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, 
Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, and his entire delegation 
on  the  adoption  of  resolution  71/5.  The  voting  on  the 
resolution we witnessed a few minutes ago was a historic 
event,  as  those  who  previously  opposed  this  annual 
resolution  have  taken  into  account  the  rapprochement 
and improvement of relations between the United States 
and Cuba and decided to abstain.
As stated by all of those who have spoken before 
me, the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
24/27 
16-34312
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.32
imposed by the United States against Cuba is contrary 
to international law and the spirit and the letter of the 
principles set out in the Charter of the United Nations. 
Since  the  adoption  of  resolution  47/19  in  November 
1992, Colombia, like all countries in Latin America and 
the  Caribbean  and  the  immense  majority  of  Member 
States, has expressed its unrestricted support for Cuba 
and  voted  in  favour  of  subsequent  iterations  of  that 
resolution,  including  the  one  we  have  just  adopted 
today.
Today  was  no  exception.  Support  was  reflected 
in the 191 votes in favour, which matched that for the 
resolution  adopted  at  last  year’s  session  (resolution 
70/5),  which  emphasized  the  need  to  put  an  end  to  a 
policy  of  more  than  50  years  —  as  the  President  of 
Colombia,  Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  has 
expressed on repeated occasions.
and 
self-determination 
of 
non-interference 
My  country  reaffirms  its  policy  of  respect  for 
international  law  and  for  the  principles  of  political 
independence, 
peoples, 
non-intervention 
the 
in 
internal  affairs  of  other  nations.  Colombia  believes  it 
indispensable  that  Member  States  make  progress  in 
building relations of cooperation and friendship based 
on  multilateralism  and  respect  for  the  principle  of 
sovereign equality enshrined in Chapter I of the United 
Nations Charter.
We note with optimism the renewal of diplomatic 
relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of 
America,  as  well  as  steps  taken  to  improve  their 
relations,  with  the  understanding,  as  we  have  heard 
here,  that  a  great  deal  remains  to  be  done.  We  trust 
that,  in  following  this  path,  the  embargo  will  finally 
be lifted.
(Argentina) 
Mr.  García  Moritán 
in 
Spanish): At the outset, I wish to welcome the presence 
of  Cuba’s  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  and  to  thank  him  for  his  very 
detailed statement.
(spoke 
Argentina  fully  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made  by  the  representative  of  Thailand  on  behalf  of 
the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  by  the  representative 
of Dominican Republic on behalf of the Community of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States,  and  wishes  to 
make the following points in our national capacity.
The  historic  position  of  Argentina  has  been,  and 
continues  to  be,  that  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  bythe  United  States  against  Cuba 
is  contrary  to  international  law  and  must  urgently  be 
lifted. In the framework of our absolute commitment to 
the Charter of the United Nations and to multilateralism, 
Argentina is opposed to the use of unilateral coercive 
measures, 
implementation  of 
national  laws  and  the  adoption  of  discriminatory 
commercial  practices.  In  that  regard,  Argentina  is  in 
accord with the demand of the international community 
to  lift  the  blockade  and  the  laws  and  regulations  that 
support that policy.
the  extraterritorial 
Argentina  has  traditionally  supported  resolutions 
of the General Assembly against the blockade and has 
spoken  against  the  blockade  on  every  occasion  when 
the  subject  has  arisen,  in  both  regional  forums  and 
other international organizations. Argentina expressed 
its satisfaction and optimism about the process initiated 
at  the  end  of  2014  by  the  Governments  of  the  United 
States  and  Cuba  to  normalize  bilateral  relations  and 
congratulates  both  Governments  on  the  decision  to 
undertake the path of dialogue, which will allow them 
to resolve all pending questions — including the lifting 
of the blockade.
We  welcome  the  progress  achieved  in  the  past 
nearly  two  years,  which  includes  the  reopening  of 
embassies in both capitals and the visits of the President 
of  the  United  States  to  Cuba  and  Cuban  authorities 
to  Washington,    as  well  as  the  executive  measures 
implemented  by  the  United  States  Department  of  the 
Treasury  and  the  Department  of  Commerce,  which 
introduced amendments to regulations. Those steps in 
the right direction mark a new era of Cuban-American 
bilateral relations that seeks to leave behind a history of 
disagreement and assumes a mutual recognition by both 
Governments as legitimate and equal interlocutors.
Nevertheless, we regret that the laws underpinning 
the  embargo  are  still  in  effect.  Their  implementation 
continues to impede the full development of the Cuban 
people. 
We  welcome  the  fact  that  there  were  no  votes 
against  the  adoption  of  today’s  resolution.  We  hope 
that  this  will  be  the  last  time  the  General  Assembly 
adopts a resolution on this issue. We furthermore hope 
that  next  year  the  provisions  of  the  resolution  will 
become abstractions, thereby consigning the economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba to the 
past.
16-34312
25/27
A/71/PV.32 
26/10/2016
Mr.  Rosselli  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At 
the outset, I welcome the presence of the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba, Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla.
Frankly, this is the type of statement that I would 
prefer not to have to make — in the first place because 
the embargo is still in place, but also because for more 
than  30  years  I  have  been  making  statements  of  this 
type here, in the old General Agreement on Tariffs and 
Trade, in the World Trade Organization, in the Union 
of  South  American  Nations,  in  the  Latin  American 
Integration Association, in the Common Market of the 
South  and  in  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States  (CELAC).  We  would  have  preferred 
seeing that the situation had already changed.
As in previous years, Uruguay voted in favour of 
the  resolution  71/5,  introduced  by  the  delegation  of 
Cuba, because the blockade against Cuba runs counter 
to the rules of international law and the purposes and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
particular  non-intervention,  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes and the legal equality of States. 
On principle, Uruguay rejects and does not recognize 
in  its  own  national  legislation  the  extraterritorial 
application of domestic laws of other States and direct 
or  indirect  measures  that  constitute  unilateral  action 
by  any  State  that  has  as  its  objective  sanctioning  the 
sovereign decisions of another country in the political, 
economic,  commercial,  social  and  cultural  spheres  or 
any  other  area.  In  that  connection,  we  condemn  the 
application  of  unilateral  coercive  measures  by  the 
United States against Cuba.
We  welcome  the  re-establishment  of  diplomatic 
relations  between  the  Government  of  Cuba  and  the 
Government of the United States, which we acknowledge 
to be a positive step towards a new chapter in relations 
between the two countries. We welcome the removal of 
Cuba from the list of State sponsors of terrorism. 
Nevertheless, we must put an end to the effects of 
the blockade that is still in place and affects the Cuban 
people with an economic and humanitarian burden. We 
certainly  welcome  the  change  of  vote  by  the  United 
States  delegation  to  abstention,  which  means  that  the 
resolution was adopted today without opposition.
Our  country  believes  that  the  sanctions  and 
extraterritorial laws imposed against Cuba not only are a 
violation of international law, but also have inestimable 
consequences  for  the  economic  development  of  the 
Caribbean  country.  They  are  a  way  of  depriving  the 
Cuban  people  of  the  right  to  development,  and  they 
inflict  a  level  of  damage  against  their  dignity  and 
sovereignty that is impossible to quantify. 
In  voting  in  favour  of  resolution  71/5,  Uruguay 
reiterates  its  commitment  to  multilateralism  as  a 
legitimate instrument for solving such disputes between 
States  and  an  efficient  way  to  promote  international 
cooperation, human rights, security and understanding 
among people.
Uruguay aligns itself with the statements made by 
the representative of the Dominican Republic on behalf 
of  CELAC  and  by  the  representative  of  Thailand  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
Mr.  Mra  (Myanmar):  I  take  the  floor  today  to 
explain  the  vote  of  my  delegation  on  resolution  71/5, 
entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba”, which was just adopted by an 
overwhelming majority of Member States.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made  by  the  representative  of  Singapore  on  behalf  of 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  by  the 
representative of Thailand on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China and by the representative of Venezuela and 
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
economic, 
and 
commercial 
Myanmar  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution  to 
demonstrate  once  again  our  firm  opposition  to  any 
unilateral 
financial 
embargoes  imposed  against  any  country.  We  fully 
understand  the  degree  of  loss  and  suffering  caused 
by  sanctions,  because  we  have  gone  through  similar 
experiences  for  decades.  In  the  end,  sanctions  are 
counterproductive and affect only the innocent people 
of the country concerned.
As  a  member  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
Myanmar  has  steadfastly  adhered  to  the  principled 
position  of  the  Movement  in  opposing  the  use  of 
unilateral  economic  and  trade  sanctions.  Sanctions 
are also contrary to the Charter of the United Nations, 
as  well  as  to  the  international  law  principle  of  good-
neighbourliness.  Myanmar  has  always  maintained 
that the relations among members of the international 
community  should  be  based  on  mutual  respect,  and 
differences  should  be  resolved 
through  peaceful 
consultations.
26/27 
16-34312
26/10/2016 
A/71/PV.32
that 
those 
the 
Myanmar  welcomes 
re-establishment  of 
diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States represented by the reopening of their respective 
embassies in Havana and Washington, the historic visit 
by President Obama to Cuba in March and the easing 
of  restrictions,  including  steps  taken  by  the  United 
States with regard to the Cuban draft resolution. These 
are important steps in enhancing bilateral relations and 
charting  a  new  road  map  in  order  to  build  a  brighter 
future  for  the  present  and  future  generations  of  both 
countries.  Myanmar  hopes 
important 
undertakings  will  lead  to  the  earliest  possible  lifting 
of all the remaining restrictions imposed against Cuba.
Last September, world leaders gathered here at the 
United Nations to adopt the ambitious 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development to move everyone, including 
our  planet,  towards  a  sustainable  future.  Member 
States  also  committed  to  working  tirelessly  for  the 
full  and  effective  implementation  of  the  Goals  and 
targets  because  they  will  open  up  new  prospects  and 
opportunities for global development and cooperation. 
One significant thing about this historic Agenda is that 
it  calls  for  not  leaving  anyone  behind.  We  are  of  the 
view that sanctions should be completely eliminated so 
that everyone will have the opportunity to achieve the 
Goals and targets of the 2030 Agenda.
For the reasons I mentioned, Myanmar once again 
voted in favour of the resolution. I offer congratulations 
to the Cuban delegation for the impressive result.
Mr.  Phansourivong  (Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic):  The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
aligns  itself  with  the  statements  delivered  by  the 
representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela 
on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, 
by  the  representative  of  the  Kingdom  of  Thailand 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  by  the 
representative of the Republic of Singapore on behalf of 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
Cooperation  and  engagement  are  key  factors  for 
peaceful  coexistence  and  mutual  benefit  in  the  era 
of  interdependence.  In  that  respect,  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic welcomes the important progress 
made  in  the  past  year  on  the  re-establishment  of 
diplomatic relations between the Republic of Cuba and 
the United States of America, including the reopening 
of embassies in both respective capitals, as well as the 
historic visit to Cuba by President Barack Obama, which 
has opened a new chapter in the relations between the 
two countries, which have been stalled for decades. The 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  also  welcomes  the 
decision  of  the  United  States  to  abstain  in  voting  on 
resolution 71/5, which is another positive step.
With the current positive developments in relations 
between  the  Republic  of  Cuba  and  the  United  States 
of  America,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
strongly hopes that the progress made thus far will be 
further enhanced, leading to the lifting of the unilateral 
embargo  against  the  Republic  of  Cuba  in  the  near 
future. The Lao People’s Democratic Republic believes 
that lifting the embargo will be beneficial not only to 
both  countries,  but  to  the  international  community. 
Furthermore, the lifting of the embargo will create an 
environment conducive to further enhancing dialogue 
and cooperation between the two countries and enable 
Cuba to engage in trade and economic exchange with 
nations around the world, including the United States of 
America,  thereby  contributing  to  improving  the  well-
being of the Cuban people and the development of their 
country. I warmly congratulate the Cuban delegation.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
explanation of vote for this meeting. We shall hear the 
remaining speakers at 3 p.m. here in the Hall.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m. 
16-34312
27/27
