United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
54th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 7 December 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.54
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 73
Oceans and the law of the sea
Draft resolution (A/71/L.27)
(a) Oceans and the law of the sea
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/71/74 and 
A/71/74/Add.1)
Report on the work of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group of the Whole on the Regular Process 
for Global Reporting and Assessment of the 
State of the Marine Environment, including 
Socioeconomic Aspects (A/71/362)
Report on the work of the United Nations Open-
ended Informal Consultative Process on Oceans 
and the Law of the Sea at its seventeenth 
meeting (A/71/204)
Draft resolution (A/71/L.26)
(b) Sustainable fisheries, including through the 
1995 Agreement for the Implementation of the 
Provisions of the United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating 
to the Conservation and Management of 
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory 
Fish Stocks, and related instruments
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/351)
Draft resolution (A/71/L.24)
The  President:  I  should  like  to  inform  members 
that  action  on  draft  resolution  A/71/L.26,  entitled 
“Oceans and the law of the sea”, has been postponed to a 
later date to allow time for the review of its programme 
budget implications by the Fifth Committee.
I shall now make a brief statement.
The ocean is the lifeblood of our planet. It is a vital 
and complex ecosystem that billions of people depend 
on for their livelihoods, food security, cultural identity 
and traditions. We are all united by the ocean with its 
boundless  energy,  indispensable  trade  routes  and  its 
marine  resources  that  feed  our  communities.  As  we 
meet,  however,  our  beloved  ocean  is  in  peril  and  the 
state  of  its  health  has  begun  to  threaten  humankind’s 
sustainable  place  on  this  planet.  The  overexploitation 
of  fish  stocks  and  pollution  from  fertilizers,  plastics 
and waste are diminishing its resources, while climate 
change  is  exerting  enormous  pressure  on  the  ocean, 
coasts  and  marine  ecosystems.  Rising  sea  levels, 
ocean  acidification,  increasing  deoxygenization  and 
reduced mixing of ocean waters are exacerbating those 
challenges,  while  the  changing  interaction  between 
the ocean and the atmosphere is affecting our climate, 
weather and air quality.
The  importance  of  the  ocean  to  humankind  and 
to  the  planet  was  acknowledged  by  world  leaders 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-41791 (E)
*1641791*
A/71/PV.54 
07/12/2016
last  year  when  they  adopted  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development. The 2030 Agenda critically 
included  Sustainable  Development  Goal  14,  which 
aims to conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas 
and  marine  resources  for  sustainable  development.  It 
pursues urgent action to reverse the cycle of decline in 
which our ocean is currently caught.
to  deter  and  combat  such  fishing  must  be  renewed. 
The  draft  resolution  that  will  be  adopted  later  today, 
declares 2 May annual World Tuna Day and is therefore 
an important step in recognizing the critical role of tuna 
to  sustainable  development,  food  security,  economic 
opportunity  and  the  livelihoods  of  so  many  around 
our planet.
The General Assembly has a central role to play in 
protecting the ocean and its resources. The resolutions 
that have been considered and adopted under the oceans 
agenda  are  essential  to  those  efforts.  I  would  like  to 
highlight the following key observations about the draft 
resolutions before us. The annual oceans omnibus draft 
resolution (A/71/L.26) reflects the critical importance 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  I 
welcome  its  focus  on  important  broad-ranging  issues 
relating  to  the  ocean  and  the  law  of  the  sea  and  the 
central importance that it gives to the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  That  includes 
capacity-building, the peaceful settlement of disputes, 
the  work  of 
the  International  Seabed  Authority, 
maritime safety and security, marine environment and 
resources,  the  protection  of  refugees  and  migrants  at 
sea, and the safety of fishers and vessels.
The  decision  to  focus  the  annual  Open-ended 
Informal  Consultative  Process  on  Oceans  and  the 
Law of the Sea on climate change and oceans in 2017 
and  on  anthropogenic  underwater  noise  in  2018  is 
welcome.  Also  welcome  is  the  importance  placed  on 
the First Global Integrated Marine Assessment for the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda, and the work on 
the  second  cycle  of  the  Regular  Process  for  Global 
Reporting  and  Assessment  of  the  State  of  the  Marine 
Environment, including Socioeconomic Aspects.
I also join in encouraging delegations to continue 
the high levels of good will and momentum for the first 
and second sessions of the Preparatory Committee for 
the  development  of  an  international  legally  binding 
instrument  under  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea on the conservation and sustainable 
use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of  areas  beyond 
national jurisdictions. The annual sustainable fisheries 
draft  resolution  (A/71/L.24)  highlights  the  nexus 
between  that  issue  and  food  security,  prosperity  and 
poverty  reduction  for  current  and  future  generations. 
I share delegations’ concerns, as expressed in the draft 
resolution,  that  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
fishing  constitutes  a  serious  threat  to  fish  stocks, 
marine  habitats  and  ecosystems,  and  that  efforts 
The  high-level  United  Nations  Conference  to 
Support the Implementation of Sustainable Development 
Goal  (SDG)  14,  to  be  held  here  in  New  York  from 
5 to 9 June 2017, is the next milestone in our collective 
efforts  to  save  the  ocean.  The  Conference  will  bring 
together  all  stakeholders,  Governments,  civil  society, 
scientific and academic experts and local communities 
in our collective endeavour. I am confident that, under 
the able leadership of Sweden and Fiji, as co-presidents 
of  the  Conference,  and  of  Portugal  and  Singapore,  as 
co-facilitators  of  the  call  to  action,  the  Conference 
on  Oceans  and  Seas  will  indeed  be  a  game  changer 
in  securing  the  political  and  voluntary  commitments, 
the 
the  strategic  multi-stakeholder 
partnerships and the mobilization of the global ocean 
community  to  drive  action  to  effectively  implement 
SDG  14  by  2030.  I  encourage  everyone  to  participate 
in  the  preparatory  meetings  for  the  Conference, 
which will be held on 15-16 February. I encourage all 
Governments to participate in the Conference itself in 
June at the highest level. During that week, we will also 
be celebrating World Environment Day on 5 June and 
World Oceans Day on 8 June.
launching  of 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  acknowledge  and 
thank the co-chairs, who have led the processes under 
this  agenda  item,  including  Barbados,  New  Zealand, 
Cyprus, Peru and Trinidad and Tobago. I would also like 
to thank Norway, South Africa and Nauru, on behalf of 
the Pacific island developing States, for their work and 
dedication as coordinators of the draft resolutions.
I now give the floor to the representative of Norway 
to introduce draft resolution A/71/L.24.
Mr.  Kravik  (Norway):  Norway  had  the  honour 
to  coordinate  the  informal  consultations  on  draft 
resolution  A/71/L.24,  on  sustainable  fisheries,  and 
is  pleased  to  introduce  that  text  on  behalf  of  all  its 
sponsors. This year’s text is a further step forward in 
the  conservation  and  management  of  fisheries,  which 
are an essential resource for sustainable development.
My delegation is also pleased to join many others in 
sponsoring draft resolution A/71/L.26, entitled “Oceans 
2/29 
16-41791
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.54
and the law of the sea”, to be introduced by Thembile 
Joyini of South Africa. We compliment Mr. Joyini on 
his careful stewardship of that draft.
such  as  achieving 
sustainable 
fishing  overcapacity  and 
The fisheries draft resolution addresses important 
issues 
fisheries, 
combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, 
addressing 
improving 
subregional and regional cooperation so as to achieve 
sustainable  fisheries  management.  It  also  addresses 
issues undertaken in other United Nations forums, such 
as  the  workshop  on  bottom  fisheries  in  August  and 
the  resumed  Review  Conference  in  May  on  the  1995 
Agreement  for  the  Implementation  of  the  Provisions 
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation 
and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly 
Migratory  Fish  Stocks.  Key  outcomes  from  other 
forums,  both  regional  and  global,  are  also  considered 
in the draft resolution.
This year’s informal consultations also considered 
the  impact  of  bottom  fishing  on  vulnerable  marine 
ecosystems and the long-term sustainability of deep-sea 
fish stocks, as mandated in paragraph 162 of resolution 
69/109.  The  review  was  undertaken  with  a  view  to 
ensuring the effective implementation of the measures 
therein  and  to  make  further  recommendations,  where 
necessary.  Delegations  agreed  on  new  provisions  to 
enhance  the  regulations  of  bottom-fishing  activities. 
Notably,  the  draft  further  highlights  the  importance 
of  adequate  conservation  and  management  measures 
to  prevent  significant  adverse  impacts  from  bottom 
fishing  on  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems.  The  draft 
text articulates urgent actions that States and regional 
fisheries-management  organizations  have  to  take  in 
that regard.
Furthermore, this year’s draft resolution encourages 
necessary measures, where appropriate, consistent with 
international law, in order to prevent and deter vessels 
without  nationality  from  engaging  in  or  supporting 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing.  Such 
vessels operate on the high seas without governance or 
oversight. That reflects the international community’s 
ongoing  concern  over  the  negative  impact  of  illegal, 
unreported and unregulated fishing on the sustainable 
management  of  fish  stocks  and  its  recognition  that 
there  is  a  shared  responsibility  to  address  that  issue. 
The  draft  resolution  also  emphasizes  the  central 
importance  of  providing  a  safe  working  environment 
for  those  engaged  both  in  fishing  activities  and  in 
monitoring compliance.
The  draft  resolution  also  urges  States  parties  to 
the  United  Nations  Fish  Stocks  Agreement  to  take 
into  account  the  special  requirements  of  developing 
States, including small island developing States, when 
cooperating to establish conservation and management 
measures  for  straddling  fish  stocks  and  highly 
migratory fish stocks.
Norway is of the firm view that the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea provides the universal 
and  unified  framework  for  the  peaceful,  responsible 
and  predictable  management  of  the  oceans  and  seas. 
All activities in the oceans and seas must be carried out 
within  that  framework.  In  ever-changing  conditions, 
the Convention provides clarity with regard to both the 
obligations and the rights of States.
Clear  maritime  boundaries  are  essential  for 
identifying  which  State  has  rights  and  obligations  in 
which areas under the law of the sea. The establishment 
of the outer limits of the continental shelf beyond 200 
nautical miles is of key importance in that regard. The 
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf also 
plays a significant role in that work.
This year, Norway is pleased to be able to make a 
contribution to the voluntary trust fund for the purpose 
of  defraying  the  cost  of  participation  of  the  members 
of  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental 
Shelf  from  developing  States  in  the  meetings  of  the 
Commission.  We  encourage  other  States  to  also 
consider contributing to that fund.
As  coordinator,  I  would  like  to  personally  thank 
Director Gabriele Goettsche-Wanli and the staff of the 
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for 
their expertise, professionalism and invaluable support 
on both draft resolutions. And we again thank Thembile 
Joyini of South Africa for his expert coordination of the 
draft resolution on oceans and the law of the sea. Let me 
also thank Alice Revell of New Zealand for her work in 
successfully coordinating the fisheries resolution over 
the past four years.
Finally,  let  me  conclude  by  conveying  Norway’s 
appreciation  for  the  hard  work  and  cooperation  of 
delegations  in  crafting  both  draft  resolutions.  It  is 
our  hope  that  that  constructive  and  collaborative 
engagement  will  be  maintained  as  we  continue  to 
16-41791
3/29
A/71/PV.54 
07/12/2016
address the numerous and complex issues that face our 
oceans and fisheries.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative  of  South  Africa  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/71/L.26.
Mr.  Joyini  (South  Africa):  As  the  Assembly  is 
aware,  South  Africa  has  the  honour  to  coordinate  the 
informal  consultations  on  draft  resolution  A/71/L.26, 
entitled  “Oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea”,  and  is  now 
pleased to introduce the draft resolution on behalf of all 
its sponsors and other delegations in general.
This important exercise on the General Assembly’s 
agenda  would  not  have  been  possible  without  the 
support  of  all  delegations,  which  have  demonstrated 
tremendous cooperation and flexibility as they pursued 
and  defended  their  national  interests  during  the  two 
rounds of negotiations of five days each, which ended 
on 22 November. As the coordinator, I would be remiss 
if  I  did  not  also  acknowledge  the  support  provided 
to  me  during  the  negotiations  and  the  intersessional 
period by the Director and the staff of the Division for 
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea, which provided 
secretariat  services  and  advice  to  the  coordinator 
throughout the process.
South Africa is also pleased to be one of the countries 
that  has  sponsored  the  draft  resolution  on  sustainable 
fisheries  (A/71/L.24),  which  was  just  introduced  this 
morning by my friend Mr. Andreas Kravik of Norway. 
My  delegation  extends  its  compliments  to  him  on  his 
careful  stewardship  of  the  informal  consultations  on 
the  draft  resolution  on  sustainable  fisheries.  It  was 
well done.
Returning  to  the  omnibus  draft  resolution  on 
oceans and the law of the sea, draft resolution A/71/L.26 
before  us  recognizes  the  important  contribution  of 
the  sustainable  development  and  management  of 
the  resources  and  uses  of  the  oceans  and  seas  to  the 
achievement  of  international  development  goals,  in 
particular  those  contained  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  As  such,  it  calls  upon 
States  to  implement  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals outlined in the outcome document of the United 
Nations  summit  leading  to  the  adoption  of  the  post-
2015 development agenda, entitled “Transforming our 
world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”, 
as  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  in  resolution 
70/1,  of  25  September  2015,  which  includes  Goal  14 
on  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  the  oceans, 
seas and marine resources for sustainable development 
and  recalls  that  the  Goals  and  targets  are  integrated 
and indivisible.
It  welcomes  the  outcomes  of  the  second  session 
of  the  United  Nations  Environment  Assembly,  held 
in  September  2016,  especially  the  resolutions  on  the 
“Oceans  and  seas”  (UNEA-2/10),  “Marine  plastic 
litter  and  micro-plastics”  (UNEA-2/11),  “Sustainable 
coral reefs management” (UNEA-2/12) and the “Role, 
functions  and  modalities  for  the  United  Nations 
Environment  Programme 
the 
SAMOA Pathway as a means of facilitating achievement 
of the Sustainable Development Goals” (UNEA-2/4).
implementation  of 
It recalls the annual General Assembly resolutions 
on the law of the sea and on oceans and the law of the 
sea,  including  resolution  69/292,  of  19  June  2015,  on 
the  development  of  an  internationally  legally  binding 
instrument  under  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea on the conservation and sustainable use of marine 
biological diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction, 
and  its  decision  to  convene  the  high-level  United 
Nations  Conference  to  Support  the  Implementation 
of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  14:  Conserve  and 
sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources 
for sustainable development, to be held from 5 to 9 June 
2017, coinciding with the World Oceans Day on 8 June 
in order to support the implementation of Sustainable 
Development Goal 14, as well as its resolution 70/303 on 
the modalities for that Conference. It also acknowledges 
the rich discussions and exchanges of views at the first 
and  second  sessions  of  the  Preparatory  Committee, 
established by resolution 69/292, held from 28 March to 
8 April and from 26 August to 9 September, and notes, 
in that regard, that the third and fourth sessions of the 
Preparatory  Committee  are  scheduled  to  take  place 
in 2017.
The draft resolution before us welcomes the progress 
of  the  work  of  the  International  Seabed  Authority 
on  the  exploitation  regulations,  in  particular  the 
delivery of the initial working draft of the exploitation 
regulations  during  the  twenty-second  session  of  the 
International  Seabed  Authority,  while  taking  note 
that all State parties and other stakeholders have been 
invited to provide input into the draft and encourages 
the Authority to continue its work on the exploitation 
regulations  as  a  matter  of  priority  and  in  accordance 
with  the  list  of  priority  deliverables  endorsed  by  the 
Council of the International Seabed Authority.
4/29 
16-41791
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.54
It  also  welcomes  with  satisfaction  the  fact  that 
the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
is  commemorating  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  its 
establishment and welcomes the commemorative events, 
including  the  twentieth  anniversary  commemorative 
ceremony and the twentieth anniversary seminar, held 
in  Hamburg  from  5  to  7  October,  and  expresses  its 
appreciation to those who have contributed. It further 
notes with satisfaction the progress in the work of the 
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf 
and the fact that it is currently giving consideration to 
a  number  of  submissions  regarding  the  establishment 
of the outer limits of the continental shelf beyond 200 
nautical miles.
The  draft  resolution  recalls  the  responsibilities 
and  functions  entrusted  to  the  Secretary-General  by 
the  Convention  and  the  related  General  Assembly 
resolutions, including resolutions 49/28 and 52/26, and 
notes the increased number of requests to the Division 
for  the  additional  output  and  service  of  meetings, 
pursuant  to  resolution  69/292  and  in  relation  to  the 
support to be provided by the Division as the secretariat 
of  the  Regular  Process  for  Global  Reporting  and 
Assessment  of  the  State  of  the  Marine  Environment, 
Including  Socioeconomic  Aspects,  during  the  second 
cycle  of  the  Regular  Process  and  to  ensure  the 
allocation of appropriate resources to the Division for 
the  performance  of  its  activities,  under  the  approved 
budget of the Organization.
It also recognizes the importance of the trust funds 
established pursuant to resolution 55/7 to facilitate the 
participation  of  members  of  the  Commission  on  the 
Limitations  of  the  Continental  Shelf  from  developing 
States  in  the  meetings  of  the  Commission  and  in 
fulfilling  the  requirements  of  article  6  of  annex  II  to 
the  Convention,  noting  with  appreciation  the  recent 
contributions  made  to  them,  while  observing  with 
concern that the lack of funds in the voluntary trust fund 
for the purpose of defraying the cost of the participation 
of  the  members  of  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of 
Continental Shelf from developing States in the meetings 
of the Commission may prevent the Commission from 
implementing the decision of the twenty-sixth meeting 
of State parties that requested the Commission to meet 
for up to 26 weeks and may preclude the Commission 
from  advancing  its  work  as  a  result  of  the  potential 
lack  of  a  quorum  at  the  2017  session.  In  that  regard, 
we  urge  States,  international  financial  institutions, 
intergovernmental  organizations, 
donor  agencies, 
non-governmental  organizations  and  natural  and 
juridical  persons  to  contribute  to  the  aforementioned 
trust  fund.  We  express  our  appreciation  to  those  who 
have contributed.
In  conclusion,  following  10  days  of  intensive 
negotiations,  including  a  series  of  small-group  and 
bilateral  meetings,  delegations  were  able  to  reach 
consensus  on  each  paragraph  of  the  draft  resolution, 
which seeks to assist Member States and other entities 
in implementing the obligations geared towards, inter 
alia, the sustainable use of our oceans and seas. I am 
therefore  pleased  to  commit  the  draft  resolution  to 
the Assembly for its consideration. It is my hope that 
the same spirit of cooperation and understanding that 
characterized  the  negotiations  will  be  demonstrated 
by delegations and that draft resolution A/71/L.26 will 
be  adopted  by  consensus  when  the  time  for  adoption 
comes.
Mr. Otto (Palau): I have the honour to deliver this 
statement  on  behalf  of  the  12  members  of  the  Pacific 
small  island  developing  States,  namely,  the  Federated 
States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, Papua New 
Guinea, the Marshall Islands, Samoa, Solomon Islands, 
Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu and my own country, Palau, to 
introduce  the  draft  resolution  contained  in  document 
A/71/L.27,  entitled  “World  Tuna  Day”  under  agenda 
item  73  on  the  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea,  and  to 
move it to action. Owing to time constraints, a longer 
version of my statement will be circulated to the wider 
membership.
We  are  pleased  that  currently  93  countries  from 
all  regions  of  the  world  have  joined  us  in  sponsoring 
the  draft  resolution  to  declare  2  May  as  World  Tuna 
Day. We would therefore like to express our profound 
appreciation to all the delegations that have sponsored 
the draft resolution. We humbly invite other delegations 
to join in sponsorship before adoption today.
The  draft  resolution  for  World  Tuna  Day,  under 
consideration today, underscores the critical importance 
of  tuna  for  the  social  and  economic  welfare  of  many 
States, as those fish support some of the world’s largest 
and most valuable fisheries, as well as of the many people 
who rely on them for their livelihoods. World Tuna Day 
is  intended  to  create  global  awareness  regarding  the 
value and importance of tuna to the multitude of lives 
and livelihoods around the world and its contribution to 
the  attainment  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
under  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
16-41791
5/29
A/71/PV.54 
07/12/2016
as  well  as  the  critical  role  that  tuna  plays  in  marine 
ecosystems.
The global economic activity that tuna fisheries can 
directly  and  indirectly  generate  is  remarkable.  Every 
year,  at  least  2.5  million  tons  of  global  tuna  catch  is 
destined for the canning industry and globally around 
256 million cases are consumed, valued at $7.5 billion. 
Therefore,  ensuring  the  long-term  sustainability  of 
the  world’s  tuna  and  billfish  fisheries  is  intrinsically 
linked  with  providing  food  security,  vital  livelihoods 
and  economic  benefits  in  many  regions  of  the  world. 
In  my  own  region,  tuna  has  for  centuries  provided 
an  important  source  of  food  for  Pacific  Islanders  and 
employment,  as  well  as  much  intangible  cultural  and 
traditional value to our peoples.
Today,  tuna  fishing  is  also  an  important  source 
of  income,  and  for  some  of  our  members,  the  tuna 
resources  within  their  200-mile  exclusive  economic 
zones  represent 
their  only  significant  renewable 
resource  and  their  best  opportunity  for  sustainable 
economic  development.  In  addition  to  the  critical 
economic value of tuna, it plays an important role in the 
marine ecosystem. The declining tuna population and 
changes  in  their  food-web  dynamics  may  impair  the 
oceans’ capacity to generate basic ecosystem services, 
which are vital to human health, welfare and economic 
activities.
Despite 
their 
tuna 
importance, 
face  serious 
challenges to their long-term sustainability. There are 
more hooks and nets set in the oceans for tuna than any 
other group of fish. And as we have noted at the United 
Nations and in other forums, the issues surrounding tuna 
include the overcapacity of fishing fleets, the equitable 
allocation of fishing rights among fishing nations, the 
implementation of the precautionary approach and the 
ecosystem  approach,  and  efforts  to  combat  illegal, 
unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing. In order to 
have healthy populations of tuna in the future, we need 
to  strengthen  our  efforts  to  end  overfishing  and  IUU 
fishing,  and  also  to  ensure  that  the  gear  used  in  tuna 
fishing does not endanger other ocean life.
Those issues, among others, were the drivers for the 
parties to narrow the tuna fishing agreements in 2011 
and to designate 2 May as World Tuna Day. We were 
pleased to celebrate it with friends here at the United 
Nations  for  the  first  time  earlier  this  year.  Given  the 
work that is being undertaken on the implementation of 
the 2030 Agenda, especially Sustainable Development 
Goal  14  —  to  conserve  and  sustainably  use  the 
oceans  and  seas  and  marine  resources  for  sustainable 
development — it is an opportune time to underscore 
the  centrality  of  tuna  for  global  food-security  and 
sustainable-development aspirations, as well as to take 
the  opportunity  to  showcase  and  share  best  practices 
on sustainable tuna conservation, use and management. 
And we are pleased that such a day will now be marked 
by  the  world  as  well.  World  Tuna  Day  is  therefore 
necessary so as to protect such a magnificent species 
and  protect  our  oceans  and  seas  and  the  millions  of 
people who rely on them. We celebrate tuna now and 
look forward to doing so well into the future. We look 
forward to adopting the draft resolution by consensus 
today.
Allow  me  to  continue  with  general  remarks  on 
agenda item 73, entitled “Oceans and the law of the sea”. 
At the outset, we, the Pacific small island developing 
States,  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Thembile  Joyini  of 
South  Africa  and  Mr.  Andreas  Kravik  of  Norway  for 
their  able  leadership  in  bringing  the  negotiations  on 
the  draft  resolutions  to  their  successful  conclusion, 
and we are pleased to support the adoption of the draft 
resolutions on oceans and the law of the sea, sustainable 
fisheries and World Tuna Day.
We  attach  particular  importance  to  this  agenda 
item. We consider the ocean to be the lifeblood of our 
economies and societies. We are therefore keenly aware 
of  the  increasing  negative  impacts  on  the  health  of 
oceans, which is driven by human activity. Overfishing 
and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing; marine 
pollution, including from microplastics, the destruction 
of  marine  habitats  and  other 
to  marine 
biodiversity, as well as climate-change-driven impacts, 
such  as  ocean  acidification,  are  among  a  number  of 
serious threats to the health and resilience of our shared 
ocean.
threats 
Those  serious  and  increasing  impacts  are  not 
merely  threats  to  our  oceans,  but  constitute  a  serious 
challenge  to  our  sustainable  development  and  our 
ability to meet the aspirations encompassed in the 2030 
Agenda.  Healthy,  productive  and  resilient  oceans  and 
seas  are  critical  for,  inter  alia,  poverty  eradication, 
access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food, economic 
development and essential ecosystem services.
The Pacific small island developing States (SIDS) 
were  at  the  forefront  of  those  advocating  for  the 
inclusion in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
6/29 
16-41791
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.54
of  a  stand-alone  Goal  dedicated  to  the  conservation 
and  the  sustainable  use  of  our  oceans  and  seas.  We 
therefore welcome the inclusion of SDG 14 in the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. We look forward 
to  beginning  the  critical  work  of  implementing  that 
Goal in order to meet the targets on protecting marine 
ecosystems,  addressing  acidification,  ending  illegal, 
unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  and  increasing 
benefits  to  SIDS  and  the  least-developed-countries 
(LDCs).  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  follow-up  to 
the 2030 Agenda, including the first high-level United 
Nations Conference to Support the Implementation of 
Sustainable  Development  Goal  14.  We  congratulate 
the  co-facilitators  of  that  process,  the  Permanent 
Representatives of Portugal and Singapore, and we look 
forward to working closely with them so as to ensure a 
strong and successful conference.
We were not alone in reacting with deep concern to 
recent reports that marine biodiversity has undergone 
considerable decline over the past 40 years. Populations 
of marine vertebrates have been declining at a rate of 
49  per  cent,  with  some  declining  at  rates  near  75  per 
cent. Given the critical role that oceans and the health 
of the oceans play in our societies and our development, 
that news is stark indeed. That is especially true when 
it  is  coupled  with  the  increasing  adverse  impacts 
that  climate  change  and  carbon-dioxide  emissions 
are  having  on  our  oceans  and  seas.  We  are  therefore 
pleased that, in next year’s United Nations Open-ended 
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law 
of the Sea, we will bring focused attention to the issue 
of climate change and oceans.
In  a  similar  vein,  we  note  that  reports  addressed 
to  the  United  Nations  World  Ocean  Assessment  lend 
urgency  to  the  work  undertaken  by  the  Preparatory 
Committee  to  develop  a  legally  binding  instrument 
under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea on the conservation and sustainable use of marine 
biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction. We 
believe that progress is being made in that work, and 
we look forward to concluding a successful Preparatory 
Committee with the two sessions that we have scheduled 
for 2017.
of  the  marine  environment  from  harmful  effects  that 
might  arise  from  the  activities  in  the  area.  We  have 
stated on numerous occasions how important the work 
of the Authority is to the Pacific SIDS, as our exclusive 
economic zones amount to more than 30 million square 
kilometres and directly adjoin the lucrative Clipperton 
Fracture  Zone.  We  also  acknowledge  the  important 
contribution  of  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the 
Continental Shelf. We therefore welcome the steps taken 
to ensure that developing States, especially LDCs and 
SIDS, are able to fully participate in the deliberations 
of subcommissions if they wish.
The 
importance  of  healthy  fisheries 
to  our 
economies  and  livelihoods  cannot  be  overstated.  The 
Pacific has been a site of global leadership in investing 
in the management of fisheries and in the monitoring 
of control and surveillance activities. Nonetheless, that 
work  does  not  take  place  in  a  vacuum.  We  reiterate 
our  call  regarding  the  need  to  provide  accurate, 
complete and reliable data in order to support scientific 
stock  assessment  and  ecosystem  approaches  to  the 
management  of  fisheries.  We  also  emphasize,  as  we 
did at the Review Conference, that the need for target 
reference points in the management of fish stocks will 
help  enable  the  long-term  sustainable  exploitation  of 
such  stocks  and  that  the  obligation  to  ensure  that  a 
disproportionate  burden  of  conservation  action  is  not 
transferred  to  developing  countries,  including  SIDS. 
We  would  like  to  thank  the  Office  for  Ocean  Affairs 
and the Law of the Sea for their ongoing hard work and 
support,  especially  relating  to  capacity-building,  and 
their technical support and legal advice.
The President: I give the floor to the observer of 
the European Union.
Ms.  Adamson  (European  Union):  I  am  speaking 
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  and  its 
member  States.  The  candidate  countries,  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia 
and  Albania,  the  country  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, as well as the Republic of Moldova, align 
themselves with this statement.
As  we  continue  to  acknowledge  the  contributions 
from the International Seabed Authority to the ongoing 
capacity-building 
targeting  developing 
countries and look forward to further progress on the 
development of a comprehensive set of rules governing 
seabed mining so as to ensure the effective protection 
initiatives 
We  are  meeting  here  to  adopt  two  important 
draft  resolutions:  one  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the 
sea (A/71/L.26) and the other on sustainable fisheries 
(A/71/L.24).  The  EU  and  its  member  States  have 
participated  actively  in  the  consultations  preparing 
those  draft  resolutions  as  committed  parties  to  the 
16-41791
7/29
A/71/PV.54 
07/12/2016
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and its 
implementing agreements, including the Agreement for 
the Implementation of the Law of the Sea Convention 
relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management  of 
Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish 
Stocks.  We  believe  that  the  draft  resolutions  serve 
to  focus  the  attention  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  general  public  on  important  issues  in  the  marine 
domain, including fisheries.
We  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  for 
the  excellent  stewardship  demonstrated  by  both 
coordinators.  We  would  also  like  to  thank  all  of  the 
co-Chairs  and  facilitators  of  the  various  meetings 
that  fed  into  the  draft  resolution  preparation  process 
and  whose  work  facilitates  the  work  of  delegations. 
We  also  recognize  the  constructive  participation  of 
other delegations in the negotiations, which ensured a 
positive  outcome  in  both  cases,  with  the  inclusion  of 
numerous important and topical issues.
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea,  with  its  168  parties,  including  the  EU,  is  rightly 
considered,  including  by  the  EU  and  its  member 
States,  as  the  constitution  of  the  oceans,  reflecting 
also  customary  international  law  and  establishing  the 
overarching legal framework within which all activities 
in the oceans and seas must be carried out. We sincerely 
hope  that  the  goal  of  universal  participation  in  the 
Convention  will  one  day  be  met.  In  that  respect,  we 
welcome the accession of Azerbaijan to the Convention 
earlier this year.
The  EU  and  its  member  States  also  support  the 
need  to  enhance  ocean  governance  as  a  fundamental 
cornerstrone for preserving and protecting the marine 
environment and biodiversity, and ensuring sustainable 
development,  as  well  as  peaceful  relations  between 
States. We continue to subscribe to the vital importance 
of  preserving 
the  Convention. 
Nevertheless, we acknowledge the necessity of ensuring 
that  the  Convention  remains  relevant  and  is  able  to 
meet today’s challenges, as well as those of the future. 
That can be achieved through the development of new 
implementing agreements.
integrity  of 
the 
Consequently,  the  EU  and  its  member  States 
are  happy  to  acknowledge  the  progress  achieved  in 
the  first  two  sessions  of  the  Preparatory  Committee 
in  preparing  recommendations  on  an  international, 
legally binding instrument under the Convention on the 
Law of the Sea on the conservation and sustainable use 
of marine biological diversity of areas beyond national 
jurisdiction. That has enabled significant unpacking of 
the  issues  at  stake.  We  would  like  to  thank  the  Chair 
of the process, Ambassador Eden Charles of Trinidad 
and Tobago, for his sterling stewardship, as well as the 
other four facilitators of the various informal groups.
The  importance  of  oceans  and  their  resources  in 
the context of sustainable development was recognized 
in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We 
subscribe to the view that responsible decision-making 
at all levels aimed at conserving and sustainably using 
the  oceans,  seas  and  marine  resources  is  crucial  for 
achieving  sustainable  development.  Consequently,  we 
look  forward  to  the  conference  that  will  be  held  next 
June to support the implementation of Goal 14 on oceans, 
and we will participate actively in the work needed to 
prepare it. We consider that the proper implementation 
of  that  Goal  is  necessary  in  order  to  counter  the 
major  threats  that  the  marine  environment  continues 
to  face,  including  climate  change,  marine  debris, 
including  plastics  and  micro-plastics,  invasive  alien 
species, eutrophication and dead zones, anthropogenic 
underwater  noise,  overfishing  and  illegal,  unreported 
and  unregulated  fishing  —  all  of  which  contribute  to 
the declining health of the marine environment and the 
continued loss of marine biodiversity.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
recognize  that  climate  change  will  have  significant 
adverse  impacts  on  oceans  and  their  ecosystems, 
which  will  have  social  and  economic  consequences, 
particularly for developing countries. As signatories to 
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, we reiterate 
the call for parties to implement their obligations under 
that Agreement and further call on those States that are 
not yet party to the Agreement to become so, with a view 
to working together, in a coordinated manner, in order 
to tackle one of the major threats to oceans and life on 
Earth. Thus, we welcome that the eighteenth meeting, 
next  year,  of  the  Informal  Consultative  Process  will 
deal with the effects of climate change on oceans.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States  also 
continue to be firmly committed to the Regular Process 
for  Global  Reporting  and  Assessment  of  the  State  of 
the  Marine  Environment,  including  Socioeconomic 
Aspects.  We  consider  that  the  coming  second  cycle 
should  enhance  the  scientific  information  available 
to  managers  and  policymakers  so  as  to  improve  the 
quality of decision-making. We would like to thank all 
8/29 
16-41791
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.54
the scientists and other colleagues who have offered to 
work voluntarily on that important process.
Lastly,  on  draft  resolution  A/71/L.26,  entitled 
“Oceans and the law of the sea”, the European Union 
and  its  member  States  regret  that  the  oral  statement 
on 
the  programme  budget  implication  before  us 
was  submitted  so  late  in  the  process.  That  statement 
should  have  been  issued  in  a  timely  manner,  so  as  to 
allow Member States to consider it thoroughly before 
taking  action.  We  would  like  to  insist  that  agreement 
on  the  draft  resolution  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the 
sea is without prejudice to the discussion in the Fifth 
Committee on the revised estimates presented to us.
Turning  now  to  draft  resolution  A/71/L.24  on 
sustainable  fisheries,  the  European  Union  is  a  strong 
supporter  of  the  United  Nations  Agreement  for  the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish 
Stocks, which sets out principles for the conservation 
and management of highly migratory and straddling fish 
stocks and elaborates on the Convention’s fundamental 
principle of cooperation in order to ensure conservation 
and  promote  the  objective  of  the  optimum  utilization 
of  fisheries  resources  —  both  within  and  beyond  the 
exclusive  economic  zone.  Consequently,  we  consider 
that the resumed Review Conference, which took place 
in May, can be seen as an important tool to improve the 
effective implementation of that Agreement.
We  would  like  to  register  our  satisfaction  that  it 
was  possible  to  agree  on  recommendations  covering 
a  number  of  important  issues,  such  as  flag  State 
responsibility  and  due  diligence,  illegal,  unreported 
and  unregulated  fishing,  vessels  without  nationality, 
strengthening  the  role  and  effectiveness  of  regional 
fisheries-management bodies, and working conditions 
aboard  fishing  vessels.  We  thank  Professor  Fábio 
Hazin of Brazil for his able chairing of the Conference. 
We  also  welcome  the  entry  into  force  of  the  Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations 
Agreement  on  Port  State  Measures  to  Prevent,  Deter 
and  Eliminate  Illegal,  Unreported  and  Unregulated 
Fishing on 5 June, as we consider it to be an important 
tool  for  preventing,  deterring  and  eliminating  illegal, 
unreported and unregulated fishing.
The  European  Union  is  also  satisfied  with  the 
outcomes  of  the  review  of  bottom-fishing  measures, 
including  the  useful  workshop  that  was  held  in  the 
context of the draft resolution on sustainable fisheries. 
We  recognize  that  States,  individually  and  through 
regional  fisheries  bodies,  have  undertaken  necessary 
measures  to  implement  the  provisions  of  previous 
resolutions. However, we also note that implementation 
has  not  been  sufficient  in  all  cases  and  areas.  We 
believe  that  more  and  better  science,  as  well  as  more 
stringent implementation of measures, is necessary, if 
vulnerable  marine  ecosystems  —  including  deep-sea 
fish  stocks  —  are  to  be  protected  from  such  bottom-
fishing activities.
Lastly, the European Union and its member States 
would like to express their gratitude to the Secretariat 
and to the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of 
the Sea for their work and constant support throughout 
the year.
Mr.  Katota  (Zambia):  I  am  pleased  to  deliver  a 
statement  on  behalf  of  the  32  landlocked  developing 
countries  (LLDCs)  on  agenda  item  73  (a),  entitled, 
“Oceans and the law of the sea”, with particular focus 
on draft resolution A/71/L.26, which was coordinated 
by Mr. Ndembile of South Africa.
Oceans,  coastal  areas  and  seas  are  an  essential 
component  of  the  Earth’s  ecosystem  and  a  primary 
provider of economic and social services to humankind. 
Therefore,  the  importance  of  the  sustained  protection 
and  conservation  of  the  seas  and  oceans,  including 
their resources, for the survival of humankind cannot 
be  overstated.  The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  recognizes  the  importance  of  those 
resources  for 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) and, thus, emphasizes their 
conservation and their sustainable use.
the  attainment  of 
It is in that regard that we welcome all initiatives 
taken at all levels — including at the national, regional 
and international levels — to protect those resources in 
order  to  ensure  their  sustainability.  As  noted  in  draft 
resolution A/71/L.26, the early entry into force of the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  on  4  November 
2016 is a welcome development and its implementation 
is  even  more 
to  achieve 
sustainable development.
important  for  efforts 
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea  (UNCLOS)  gives  rights  to  landlocked  States  to 
utilize the oceans, seas and marine resources, and more 
than  half  of  the  32  landlocked  developing  countries 
are currently State parties to UNCLOS. According to 
16-41791
9/29
A/71/PV.54 
07/12/2016
article  69  of  the  Convention,  landlocked  States  have 
the  right  to  participate,  on  an  equitable  basis,  in  the 
exploitation of an appropriate part of the surplus of the 
living  resources  of  the  exclusive  economic  zones  of 
coastal States of the same subregion or region, taking 
into  account  the  relevant  economic  and  geographical 
circumstances of all the States concerned. In addition, 
landlocked  States  also  have  a  right  to  the  high  seas, 
to  lay  submarine  cables  and  pipelines,  to  construct 
artificial  islands  and  other  installations  permitted 
under  international  law,  to  fish,  to  conduct  scientific 
research  and  to  navigate  the  high  seas,  as  stated  in 
articles 87 and 90 of UNCLOS. Landlocked States have 
the right to sail ships flying their flag on the high seas, 
as indicated in articles 90 and 91.
However,  while  LLDCs  have  those  rights,  their 
utilization of those provisions remains quite minimal. 
Their  limited  participation  is  particularly  due  to 
financial  and  technical  resource  constraints,  lack  of 
awareness  and  ratification,  limited  technologies,  as 
well as limited access to the sea. Let me highlight some 
of  the  needs  of  those  countries,  which  are  also  well 
captured in the draft resolution being adopted today.
First  of  all,  there  is  a  need  for  capacity-building. 
The landlocked developing countries require capacity-
building so as to be able to understand the rights and 
obligations in the Convention and to fully implement it, 
thereby enabling them to benefit from the sustainable 
use  of  the  oceans  and  seas,  and  to  fully  participate 
in  the  protection  of  the  marine  environment  and  its 
conservation. They need technical support so as to be 
able to participate fully in global and regional forums 
on ocean affairs and the law of the sea. Secondly, the 
transfer of technology is essential in particular to build 
capacity in marine science research in order to enable 
the  LLDCs  to  participate.  Thirdly,  financial  support 
is necessary to support the participation of LLDCs in 
activities related to the implementation of UNCLOS.
The  LLDCS  therefore  call  on  partner  regional 
and  international  organizations  to  be  cognizant  of 
the  challenges  faced  by  the  LLDCs  in  implementing 
UNCLOS  and  other 
international 
agreements related to the use and conservation of the 
oceans  and  seas  and  in  safeguarding  their  legitimate 
rights  and  interests,  and  to  ensure  balance  in  norm-
setting.
regional  and 
We welcome the call made in resolution A/71/L.26 
for  the  Secretary-General  to  convene  the  twenty-
seventh Meeting of States Parties to the Convention in 
June 2017. As I mentioned earlier, the participation of 
the LLDCs is limited owing to the specific challenges 
that  they  face.  It  is  nevertheless  important  that  the 
Meeting  address  the  specific  challenges  of  LLDCs 
and  allocate  time  to  discuss  their  issues  and  identify 
recommendations  on  how  to  foster  their  participation 
in  the  utilization  and  protection  of  the  oceans  and 
seas  in  order  for  them  to  contribute  to  the  successful 
implementation of Sustainable Development Goal 14.
Mrs. Chigiyal (Micronesia): I have the honour to 
deliver this statement on behalf of the States members 
of the Pacific Islands Forum. We would like to thank 
Mr. Joyini of South Africa, Mr. Kravik of Norway and 
Mrs. Deiye of Nauru for bringing negotiations on the 
respective  resolutions  to  their  successful  conclusion. 
We look forward to their adoption.
We  welcome  the  continued  emphasis  on  the 
universal and unified character of the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). UNCLOS 
remains  of  vital  strategic  importance  as  the  basis  for 
national, regional and global action and cooperation in 
the marine sector and it should continue to be reflected 
as such in the oceans omnibus resolution (A/71/L.26). 
It connects to a number of important events that have 
happened this year, and I would like to highlight them 
and their interlinkages.
In  late  March  and  early  April,  we  had  the  first 
session  of  the  Preparatory  Committee  established 
by  General  Assembly  resolution  69/292  for 
the 
development  of  an  internationally  legally  binding 
instrument  under  UNCLOS  on  the  conservation  and 
sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas 
beyond  national  jurisdiction.  It  was  followed  by  the 
second  session  during  the  summer.  Our  discussions 
were productive and we made good progress thanks to 
the skilful leadership of Ambassador Eden Charles of 
Trinidad and Tobago in steering our discussions.
We are, however, dismayed at the lack of progress 
achieved  so  far  in  the  context  of  the  oceans  omnibus 
resolution, which would clearly have been an effectual 
statement. As many of us have been racing to meet the 
deadline to submit inputs by Monday, we will now need 
to study this wealth of information in order to prepare 
ourselves  for  the  next  session  of  the  Preparatory 
Committee,  which  will  start  in  March  2017.  We 
certainly hope to continue to make good progress as we 
are now at the halfway point in the preparatory process.
10/29 
16-41791
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.54
On 2 May, the Pacific countries celebrated World 
Tuna  Day  here  at  the  United  Nations.  Tuna  is  an 
important  part  of  our  life  in  the  Pacific.  It  provides 
employment,  food  security  and  many  other  benefits. 
In  fact,  many  people  in  our  region  have  a  spiritual 
connection  to  tuna.  It  is  therefore  only  logical  that 
the  United  Nations  would  recognize  the  importance 
of  the  Day,  and  we  are  looking  forward  to  adopting 
draft resolution A/71/L.27 later today. So far, over 90 
countries have sponsored the draft. We thank them for 
their support, and we invite everyone else that has not 
yet done so to join us.
In June, the United Nations Open-ended Informal 
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea 
examined marine debris, plastics and microplastics. The 
discussion was both timely and comprehensive; it looked 
at the scale of the problem and also at a comprehensive 
set  of  solutions,  from  prevention  to  removal.  We 
welcome  the  report  of  the  Chairs  (A/71/204)  on  the 
work of the Informal Consultative Process and its place 
within this year’s omnibus resolution. We also welcome 
the renewal of its mandate and that it will focus on the 
interaction of oceans and climate change next year.
In  August,  we  stressed  the  importance  of  the 
successful  implementation  of  the  second  cycle  of  the 
Regular Process for Global Reporting and Assessment 
of  the  State  of  the  Marine  Environment,  including 
Socioeconomic  Aspects.  It  is  essential  that  science 
underpin policymaking on oceans and fisheries issues. 
The process here at the United Nations for obtaining the 
best available science is the development of the World 
Ocean Assessment. We welcome the decisions taken on 
the scope and duration of the second cycle.
to  Support 
In  September,  we  finished  the  modalities  for 
the  United  Nations  Conference 
the 
Implementation  of  Sustainable  Development  Goal 
14,  which  will  be  co-hosted  by  Fiji  and  Sweden  in 
New York during the week of World Oceans Day next 
year.  We  welcome  the  appointment  of  the  Permanent 
Representatives of Portugal and Singapore to facilitate 
the preparations, and we look forward to working closely 
with them. The planned concise outcome document in 
the form of a call for action will set the tone of our work, 
but the real success of the Conference will depend on 
the  partnership  dialogues.  All  stakeholders,  States, 
intergovernmental  organizations,  the  private  sector 
and civil society are asked to contribute to this success 
and to further the agenda by committing themselves to 
fully implementing Goal 14.
We  will  all  need  to  strengthen  and  accelerate  the 
implementation  of  the  commitments  we  have  already 
undertaken  and  put  new  ones  on  the  table.  Healthy, 
productive and resilient oceans are the key to the future 
of  our  blue  planet.  Given  the  vastness  of  the  Pacific 
Ocean, we have always seen ourselves as custodians in 
protecting and sustainably using our oceans.
At  the  forty-seventh  Pacific  Islands  Forum  held 
earlier this year in my country, our leaders adopted the 
Pohnpei Ocean Statement: A Course to Sustainability. 
The theme reinforces the inseparable link between our 
oceans,  seas  and  the  Pacific  Island  peoples  and  their 
values, traditional practices and spiritual connections. 
In this regard, the Pacific Islands Forum will continue 
to advocate for healthy, productive and resilient oceans 
here at the United Nations. We see this as a contribution 
to our efforts to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.
In closing, I want to thank all who have contributed 
to and supported these processes.
Ms. Wilson (Australia): It gives me great pleasure 
to reflect on what has been a very busy year for oceans 
and law of the sea. As we have just heard from the Chair 
of the Pacific Islands Forum, the range of key meetings 
and events that she outlined represents just a summary 
of what we have achieved over the year.
Collectively,  we  made  positive  progress 
in 
discussions  on  a  legally  binding  instrument  on  the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity 
beyond national jurisdiction under the skilful guidance 
of Ambassador Eden Charles of Trinidad and Tobago, 
which has been acknowledged by others. The Informal 
Consultative  Process  discussed  the  extent  of  the 
challenges  posed  by  marine  debris,  plastics  and 
microplastics,  but  also,  what  was  more  important,  it 
explored  options  for  working  together  at  all  levels  to 
address these challenges.
in 
through 
In  fisheries,  we  considered  progress 
the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Fish  Stocks 
Agreement 
the  Review  Conference  and 
implementation  of  the  General  Assembly  bottom-
fishing  measures,  as  set  out  in  resolution  64/72  and 
resolution  66/68.  The  annual  oceans  omnibus  draft 
resolution  (A/71/L.26)  and  the  sustainable  fisheries 
draft resolution (A/71/L.24) provided vehicles to reflect 
on all these issues and on other developments in the law 
of the sea. We found the relevant discussions rich and 
productive,  chaired,  respectively,  by  the  very  capable 
16-41791
11/29
A/71/PV.54 
07/12/2016
Mr. Thembile Joyini of South Africa and Mr. Andreas 
Motzfeldt Kravik of Norway.
Australia  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor  both  draft 
resolutions,  given  our  particular  interest  as  an  island 
nation in the protection and sustainable use of the ocean 
and its resources. It welcomes the continued recognition 
of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
(UNCLOS) as setting out the legal framework within 
which  all  activities  in  the  oceans  and  seas  must  be 
carried out. UNCLOS is of central strategic importance 
as the basis for national, regional and global action and 
cooperation in the marine sector. In turn, it underpins 
trade between nations and supports economic growth. 
With over 160 States parties, UNCLOS is one of the most 
widely subscribed agreements in modern international 
legal and diplomatic history. It is vital that the integrity 
of  the  Convention  be  preserved,  and  it  is  appropriate 
that the oceans omnibus resolution should continue to 
reflect the universal and unified character of UNCLOS.
Separately, we thank States for supporting the text 
proposed  by  Australia  on  illicit  wildlife  trafficking 
in the context of the oceans omnibus resolution. This 
text  provides  further  recognition  of  the  serious  and 
growing  problem  of  illicit  wildlife  trafficking,  and  of 
the need for enhanced regional and global cooperation 
and coordination of the response. An effective response 
requires  coordinated  international  action,  and  we  are 
pleased  that  the  oceans  draft  resolution  highlights, 
in  this  regard,  the  relevance  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention  against  Transnational  Organized  Crime, 
the United Nations Convention against Corruption and 
the  Convention  on  International  Trade  in  Endangered 
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.
We  are  also  pleased  that  this  year’s  ocean’s  draft 
resolution includes a reference to the vital role played 
by coastal blue carbon ecosystems in climate adaptation 
and mitigation. Blue carbon ecosystems are some of the 
most  threatened  in  the  world,  and  there  is  an  urgent 
need to work together to both protect and restore them. 
To this end, Australia announced at the Paris Climate 
Change Conference in 2015 that we were establishing 
an International Partnership for Blue Carbon. In recent 
months,  we  have  been  delighted  to  welcome  new 
members:  France,  the  United  States,  the  United  Arab 
Emirates, Sierra Leone and the Nature Conservancy.
At  the  recent  Climate  Change  Conference  in 
Marrakech,  Morocco,  Australia  announced,  with 
France, a new plan of action for the International Coral 
Reef  Initiative  (ICRI).  Recognizing  the  impact  of  the 
recent  global  bleaching  event  on  the  world’s  coral 
reefs, including Australia’s own Great Barrier Reef, the 
plan gives ICRI an enhanced focus on climate change, 
including  the  role  that  coral  reefs  and  related  coastal 
blue carbon ecosystems can play in climate adaptation 
and mitigation.
We  look  forward  to  continuing  to  work  together 
to  ensure  the  health,  sustainability  and  security  of 
our oceans.
Mr.  Zahir  (Maldives):  As  a  low-lying  series  of 
atolls  that  are  both  reliant  on  the  ocean  and  directly 
threatened by changes to the marine environment, my 
country,  the  Maldives,  views  matters  relating  to  the 
oceans  and  seas  as  critically  important.  We  therefore 
greatly appreciate the attention and time being paid to 
the significant challenges faced by the world’s oceans 
and  seas  and  welcome  the  adoption  of  the  annual 
resolutions  under  this  agenda  item.  My  delegation 
further welcomes the Secretary-General’s reports under 
this  item  (A/71/74  and  A/71/351),  which  serve  as  an 
important catalogue of the debate and negotiations on 
this issue. We also recognize and thank the coordinators 
of draft resolution A/71/L.27 for their commitment in 
leading the informal discussions.
The ocean has sustained life on earth for billions of 
years and serves to balance all the delicate ecosystems 
on  our  planet.  It  is  nature’s  source  of  immeasurable 
wealth,  which  we  as  humans  have  only  just  begun  to 
explore.  It  is  not  only  an  asset,  but  a  necessity  to  the 
continuation  of  life  as  we  know  it.  This  is  precisely 
why we need to ensure that the oceans remain a source 
of  life  for  future  generations,  instead  of  evolving 
into  a  threat  to  their  existence  as  a  result  of  our  own 
thoughtless actions.
Given  the  interconnected  nature  of  our  oceans, 
human  actions  that  adversely  impact  the  oceans 
directly or indirectly affect us all, including those of us 
who do not cause or even contribute to these problems. 
Small island States, the major part of whose geography 
consists  of  ocean,  are  the  most  susceptible  to  falling 
victim to these adverse impacts.
As one of the biggest threats facing our generation, 
the  wide-ranging  and  often  irreversible  impacts  of 
climate change, are not only altering our atmosphere, 
but  ravaging  our  oceans  as  well.  With  the  aggregate 
increase  in  ocean  temperatures  throughout  the  world, 
thermal  stress  caused  by  events  such  as  El  Niño  has 
12/29 
16-41791
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.54
amplified,  causing  severe  coral  bleaching  across 
Maldivian  reefs,  compromising  marine  ecosystems 
and posing challenges to bait fisheries. Similarly, with 
the  increase  in  surface  temperatures,  the  thermocline 
layer  has  regressed,  leading  to  the  decline  of  surface 
skipjack tuna catches. Ocean acidification, also directly 
linked with greenhouse-gas emissions, has chemically 
changed marine environments, resulting in detrimental 
impacts  on  the  ecosystems,  whose  extent  remains  to 
be discovered.
The increase in water temperatures, coral bleaching 
and  ocean  acidification  and  the  deterioration  of  the 
marine environment have impacted not only fisheries, 
but tourism as well, with adverse consequences for the 
two  largest  economic  industries  in  the  Maldives.  The 
world  at  large  needs  to  enhance  efforts  to  mitigate 
the  adverse  impacts  of  climate  change  and  global 
warming,  in  the  interest  of  intragenerational  and 
intergenerational equity.
Another  significant  cross-border  issue  plaguing 
our  oceans  is  abandoned,  lost  or  otherwise  discarded 
fishing gear. It is estimated that there are over 640,000 
tons of abandoned fishing gear throughout the world’s 
oceans  and  that  they  will  take  hundreds  of  years  to 
disintegrate.  During  monsoon  seasons,  abandoned 
fish-aggregating  devices  and  ghost  nets  drift  into 
Maldivian  waters,  destroying  reefs  and  entangling 
cetaceans and other marine life. This poses a risk not 
only  to  the  marine  environment,  but  to  humans  as 
well,  owing  to  the  introduction  of  microplastics  into 
the  food  chain.  In  addition  to  mitigating  the  risks  to 
human  and  environmental  health,  there  is  also  an 
economic incentive for us to address this issue. A cost-
benefit analysis has demonstrated that the expense of 
retrieving such gear is minute compared with the loss 
of revenue incurred by failing to do so. We need to take 
collective  action  to  stop  contributing  to  this  problem, 
which impacts the world at large, and to start reversing 
the damage that has been done already.
Ocean  plastic  pollution  and  marine  littering  as 
a  result  of  incompetent  waste  management  create 
equally harmful risks for the global oceans and marine 
wildlife.  On  a  global  scale,  we  need  to  reduce  both 
the production and the consumption of plastic, and at 
the  same  time,  ensure  that  waste  management  plans 
are  improved  to  intercept  plastic  waste  and  utilize 
the  potential  economic  benefits  that  are  to  be  reaped 
from  recycling.  In  this  regard,  we  in  the  Maldives  
have already begun to address ocean plastic pollution 
through  a  partnership  between  Parley  for  the  Oceans 
and  a  local  non-governmental  organization  (NGO), 
Biodiversity Education and Awareness Maldives.
The  value  and  significance  of  the  oceans  is 
recognized best by small island States, as our relationship 
with the oceans transcends economic value. The strong 
social and cultural ties we have with the oceans form a 
part of our unique identity. Therefore, we Maldivians 
have embraced our role as custodian of the oceans and 
have  undertaken  numerous  measures  to  conserve  and 
sustainably use our oceans.
In 
line  with 
target  14.5  of 
the  Sustainable 
Development  Goal,  on  conservation  and  sustainable 
use  of  oceans  and  seas,  the  Maldives  has  designated 
42  marine  protected  areas  throughout  its  national 
waters,  totalling  more  than  24,494  hectares  of  reef 
area.  Furthermore, 
the  Environmental  Protection 
Agency  has  identified  274  environmentally  sensitive 
areas  based  on  their  biodiversity,  uniqueness  and  the 
economic benefits of preservation. However, to attain 
the goal of conserving 10 per cent of coastal and marine 
areas by 2020, we call upon other countries to enhance 
conservation  efforts  in  their  jurisdictions  as  well. 
The  UNESCO  biosphere  reserve  in  Baa  Atoll  in  the 
Maldives is an illustration of how the economic benefits 
of marine protected areas outweigh the restrictions in 
development activities.
Similarly,  with  regard  to  protecting  the  unique 
biodiversity  contained  within  coral  reef  ecosystems, 
the  Maldives  has  undertaken  extensive  efforts 
to  restore  coral  reefs  through  coral  propagation. 
This  methodology 
is  being  successfully  utilized 
by  tourist  resorts  and  NGOs.  Additionally,  a  coral 
reef  monitoring  framework,  involving  civilians  and 
scientific researchers, has been established to support 
the  national  coral  reef  monitoring  programme  and  to 
keep closer track of what is happening in our reefs. Not 
only do coral reefs present diverse ecological value, but 
our  main  industries  —  tourism  and  fisheries  —  rely 
on them.
The  Maldives  is  recognized  as  a  global  leader  in 
sustainable  fisheries.  It  utilizes  sustainable  fishing 
methods,  such  as  the  pole  and  line  fishing  and 
handline fishing, and educates the industry through the 
development  of  a  fisheries’  curriculum,  and  reducing 
the  exploitation  of  live  bait  species  through  a  live 
bait  fishery  management  plan.  We  have  established  a 
fisheries information system, which ensures traceability 
16-41791
13/29
A/71/PV.54 
07/12/2016
throughout  the  value  chain  and  is  among  one  of  the 
best traceability systems in the world. Strong policies 
have  also  been  developed  to  introduce  mariculture  in 
the Maldives with the goal of diversifying the fisheries 
sector and reducing stress on existing fish stocks.
lack 
However,  because  we 
the  capacity  and 
resources to monitor our territorial waters adequately, 
the Maldives continues to fall victim to illegal fishing 
throughout  our  exclusive  economic  zone.  This  has 
resulted in economic losses greater than $600 million 
and is a major setback in our efforts to protect fish stocks 
and  marine  environments.  It  is  becoming  abundantly 
clear that we, as small island States, with our inherent 
constraints in capacity and resources, cannot bear the 
burden of protecting the oceans alone. As the ocean is 
a  resource  that  connects  us  all,  this  is  a  global  issue 
for  which  the  responsibility  should  be  shared  by  the 
world.  We  all  need  to  become  the  guardians  of  our 
Earth’s oceans.
In this regard, the Maldives welcomes the United 
Nations Conference to Support the Implementation of 
Sustainable Development Goal 14, on conservation and 
sustainable use of the oceans, seas and marine resources, 
which  will  be  convened  in  New  York  next  year.  We 
believe  it  will  be  a  useful  platform,  which  will  bring 
all countries together to discuss how to implement the 
Goal, build partnerships and share mutually beneficial 
experiences  and  best  practices.  We  hope  that  it  will 
deliver a strong call for action as an outcome.
While  we  at  the  United  Nations  are  engaged  on 
many oceans issues, including such varied processes as 
governance, fisheries and the conservation of species, 
we  need  to  rethink  our  systems  of  engagement.  The 
oceans  and  their  resources  form  an  interconnected 
system, and our approaches towards their preservation 
must  reflect  that  reality.  We  need  to  stop  working 
in  silos  and  urgently  adopt  a  more  coordinated  and 
comprehensive response.
The  establishment  of  a  Preparatory  Committee 
on  an  international  legally  binding  instrument  on  the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity beyond areas of national jurisdiction presents 
us  with  a  unique  opportunity  to  address  gaps  in 
ocean  governance  and  protection.  We  must  utilize 
this  opportunity  and  work  together  constructively. 
Indeed, the process of establishing such an instrument 
on  biological  diversity  beyond  areas  of  national 
jurisdiction  may,  over  the  years  to  come,  lead  to  one 
of the most important legal regimes in this context. It 
is  our  sincere  hope  that  it  will  result  globally  in  the 
large-scale change that is required to give our oceans a 
fighting chance.
We  need  to  stop  poisoning  the  waters  on  which 
we  rely  on  for  food.  We  need  to  stop  exploiting  the 
ocean’s  resources  without  regard  for  the  long-term 
consequences, especially when it is being done illegally. 
We need to stop wiping out entire species which have 
thrived for millions of years. We need to stop polluting 
the Earth’s atmosphere in a way that could change the 
nature of the ocean and we need to preserve the wealth 
of our oceans for our future generations.
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  Healthy 
and  productive  oceans  for  our  present  and  future  are 
indispensable  for  the  achievement  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  Sustainable  Development  Goal 
14 — to conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and 
marine resources for sustainable development — further 
strengthens the responsibility of the General Assembly 
to ensure the effective implementation of commitments 
made for oceans and law of the sea.
The  United  Nations  Conference  to  Support  the 
Implementation of Sustainable Development Goal 14, to 
be held next June, provides us an opportunity to address 
the challenges facing the world’s oceans. Monaco, which 
supported the initiative of Fiji and Sweden, intends to 
substantially contribute to preparations therefor and to 
the Conference itself, in particular by sharing expertise 
on  issues  relating  to  ocean  acidification,  which  is  a 
consequence of climate change and affects marine life.
Ocean  acidification  is  indeed  a  phenomenon  that 
undermines  the  health  of  our  oceans  and  especially 
affects coastal areas. Since 2010, the Scientific Centre 
of  Monaco  and  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency’s  Environment  Laboratories,  which  are  based 
in Monaco, have organized with several partners, three 
workshops  focusing  on  the  socioeconomic  impacts 
of  ocean  acidification.  These  impacts  are  especially 
significant  on  fishing,  aquaculture, 
the 
culture  and  adaptation  to  climate  change  of  coastal 
communities. The fourth workshop will be held in the 
Principality of Monaco from 15 to 17 October 2017.
tourism, 
His Serene Highness Prince Albert II is a dedicated 
advocate  for  the  oceans  and  their  resources.  He  has 
been  unrelenting  in  his  personal  commitment  to 
ensuring  that  the  oceans  find  their  rightful  place  in 
the climate negotiations, as, until now, the oceans have 
14/29 
16-41791
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.54
occupied  a  relatively  marginal  place  in  international 
climate negotiations, which have focused on land-based 
carbon dioxide emissions by man, on the role of carbon 
dioxide capture by forests and the adaptation measures 
that  are  necessary  for  climate  change.  This  changed 
with the launch of the Ocean and Climate Platform of 
UNESCO’s  International  Oceanographic  Commission 
in 2015. The Platform has contributed to the integration 
of  the  major  role  of  oceans  in  the  climate  regulation 
within the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The  role  of  oceans  in  climate  regulation  also 
motivated Monaco to join the High Ambition Coalition. 
The Coalition enables our efforts to be further mobilized, 
not  just  during  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change,  but  also  within  all  the  relevant  frameworks, 
as  was  recently  seen  successfully  at  the  International 
Maritime  Organization  and  the  International  Civil 
Aviation Organization.
I  would  also  like  to  point  out  that  Monaco  is 
currently  hosting  a  scoping  meeting  for  the  special 
report on climate change and oceans and the cryosphere 
of  the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change, 
which  brings  together  103  experts  from  40  countries. 
The drafting of this special report, which Monaco was 
highly involved in, is a critical stage in the consideration 
of the oceans in the face of climate change. This report 
is expected to be completed by 2019.
Plastic  waste  in  our  oceans  is  another  significant 
problem whose magnitude demands that action be taken 
urgently.  It  is  terrifying  to  imagine  the  consequences 
of  oceans  harbouring  more  tons  of  plastic  waste  than 
fisheries  resources.  This  looming  disaster  prompted 
Prince Albert II to sign the statement of intent to launch 
the  international  coalition  to  reduce  plastic  wastes  in 
the sea during the United Nations Climate Conference 
held  in  Marrakech,  Morocco.  The  quantity  of  plastic 
waste  in  the  Mediterranean,  which  is,  unfortunately, 
one of the most polluted bodies of water, is estimated at 
$250 billion. To contribute to this awareness-raising, at 
the beginning of the year, Morocco banned single-use 
plastic  bags.  By  2020  disposable  plastic  utensils  will 
also be banned.
Mr.  Doualeh  (Djibouti),  Vice-President, 
the Chair.
As  was  announced  during 
the  Our  Ocean 
conference,  held  in  Washington,  D.C.,  in  September, 
Monaco  will  provide  a  financial  contribution  over 
took 
three years to microinitiatives aimed at reducing plastic 
waste  in  the  Mediterranean.  However,  our  efforts 
will  be  in  vain  without  the  support  of  the  industrial 
sector.  Consumers  have  a  decisive  role  to  play,  the 
choice  being  either  to  reduce  dependence  on  plastic, 
which  is  becoming  ever  thinner  and  more  resistant, 
or  to  consume  fish  with  plastic.  We  work  closely  in 
this area with numerous international institutions and 
non-governmental institutions. Earlier this year, Prince 
Albert II led a delegation to the World Congress of the 
International  Union  of  the  Conservation  of  Nature, 
where  over  100  motions  were  adopted,  including  on 
marine  protected  areas,  biodiversity,  management  of 
oceans and ecotourism.
instrument  on 
legally  binding 
This year, the Preparatory Committee established 
the 
to  develop  a 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  of  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction  began 
its  work.  Jointly  with  Costa  Rica,  Monaco  submitted 
a written contribution, prior to the second session, on 
the  process  of  establishing  area-based  management 
tools,  including  marine  protected  areas.  We  firmly 
believe  that  marine  protected  areas  are  a  lasting, 
viable, ecologically responsible and financially tailored 
solution to conserve fragile marine environments and 
to achieve our conservation goals.
Within  the  Mediterranean  framework,  beginning 
in 2013, Monaco committed, together with France and 
Tunisia,  to  an  initiative  which  is  aimed  at  supporting 
the establishment and management of marine protected 
areas by establishing an innovative trust fund. Morocco 
and Albania have since joined us, and the Union for the 
Mediterranean has extended its political support. The 
trust  fund  is  sustained  by  contributions  from  public 
and private donors, including international donors, and 
by foundations, businesses and sponsors. The aim is to 
extend  long-term  support  and  additional  funding  for 
specific  projects.  This  year  the  Principality  provided 
€500,000.
That  initiative  reflects  the  commitments  under 
the  Barcelona  Convention  for  the  Protection  of  the 
Marine  Environment  and  the  Coastal  Region  of  the 
Mediterranean  and  the  Aichi  goal  No.  11.  Initiatives 
launched  by 
the 
establishment  of  a  network  of  marine  protected  areas 
that  are  ecologically  representative  and  effectively 
managed.  To  do  so,  the  funds  will  be  leveraged  to 
improve already existing marine protected areas and to 
foster the creation of new ones. The provision of seed 
fund  should  allow 
trust 
this 
16-41791
15/29
A/71/PV.54 
07/12/2016
capital to Morocco and Tunisia was announced during 
the  Second  Forum  of  Marine  Protected  Areas  in  the 
Mediterranean, which was recently held in Tangier.
Monaco  is  the  headquarters  of  the  Agreement 
on  the  Conservation  of  Cetaceans  of  the  Black  Sea, 
Mediterranean  Sea  and  Neighbouring  Atlantic  Area, 
an  international  organization  that  recently  marked  its 
twentieth anniversary. The Agreement recently signed 
a memorandum of cooperation with the United Nations 
Environmental  Programme,  the  aim  of  which  is  to 
establish a regular dialogue with the secretariat of the 
Convention  for  Protection  of  the  Mediterranean  Sea 
against  Pollution.  Political  cooperation  and  contacts 
with  fisheries  and  human  activities  which  generate 
threats  to  cetaceans  will  also  be  strengthened.  The 
Agreement  is  also  confirmed  in  its  pilot  role  under 
the  ecosystem-based  approach  within  the  Barcelona 
Convention as regards cetacean populations and noise 
pollution,  which  have  become  major  concerns  for  the 
conservation of living marine resources.
We are also host to the International Hydrographic 
Organization  (IHO),  which  was  set  up  in  1921  in 
Monaco.  As  such,  I  would  like  to  draw  the  attention 
of  the  General  Assembly  to  the  priorities  of  that 
international  organization.  Unfortunately,  it  remains 
largely unknown to the wider public. Since 2001, IHO 
has enjoyed observer status in the General Assembly. 
The  promotion  of  safe  navigation  and  the  protection 
of the marine environment are two priorities for IHO, 
and its representatives regular participate in meetings 
in New York. The benefits of hydrography, bathymetry 
and seabed mapping are critical for trade and tourism, 
but 
this  has  not  been  sufficiently  underscored. 
Imagine,  85  per  cent  of  the  seabed  has  not  yet  been 
directly measured. That means that the surface of the 
planet Mars has been mapped to a greater extent than 
our oceans.
Therefore, our delegation has plans to improve the 
drafting of the appropriate paragraphs in the omnibus 
resolution on the oceans and law of the sea at the next 
session. As the 2005 Protocol that aims to strengthen 
the IHO Convention entered into force on 8 November, 
any  State  requesting  to  join  IHO  will  no  longer  have 
to  secure  the  approval  of  two  thirds  of  the  existing 
members and, if in practice no State’s request is denied, 
that  means  that  the  time  required  for  accession  to 
membership  will  be  reduced.  Until  now,  it  has  taken 
two to three years.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  warmly  thank  the 
facilitators of the two draft resolutions under discussion, 
which we are co-sponsoring. I would also like to thank 
the States which submitted draft resolution A/71/L.27, 
on World Tuna Day, which we are also co-sponsoring. 
The small island developing States, with which we work 
closely, invite Member States to respect a fair balance 
between conservation and sustainable use of our very 
valuable marine resources.
Mr.  Meza-Cuadra  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
My  delegation  would  like  to  begin  this  statement 
by  welcoming  the  various  reports  of  the  Secretary-
General both on the oceans and the law of the sea and 
on sustainable fisheries.
Today,  as  the  General  Assembly  considers  the 
draft resolutions relating to oceans and the law of the 
sea,  Peru  reaffirms  its  historic  commitment  to  the 
protection of the oceans and the conservation of fishery 
resources and other marine living resources. Peru is an 
extremely diverse country, and we recognize the great 
potential that this has for its sustainable development, 
for the maintenance of our ecosystems and for the well-
being  of  our  population,  as  can  be  seen  in  the  high 
priority that my country attaches to the implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  in 
particular Goal 14, “Conserve and sustainably use the 
oceans, seas and marine resources”.
My  country  welcomes  the  current  preparatory 
process for the United Nations Conferences to Support 
the 
Implementation  of  Sustainable  Development 
Goal  14,  and  we  reiterate  our  full  support  for  all  the 
General  Assembly  processes  relating  to  oceans  and 
the law of the sea. We also express our recognition for 
the priority given to this issue by the President of the 
General Assembly.
In  that  regard,  my  delegation  had  the  honour 
to  co-chair  the  seventeenth  meeting  of  the  United 
Nations  Open-ended  Informal  Consultative  Process 
on Oceans and the Law of the Sea, at which the areas 
of  concentration  were  marine  debris,  plastics  and 
microplastics. On that occasion, we were able to see that, 
in order to solve this problem, we need a comprehensive 
multisectoral  approach  that  does  not  just  include  the 
participation of Governments at various levels, but also 
that  of  international  organizations,  civil  society  and 
industry.  Peru  is  pleased  to  see  that  draft  resolution 
A/71/L.26,  ”Oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea”,  decides 
that  the  Informal  Consultative  Process  will  focus  its 
16/29 
16-41791
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.54
discussions at its eighteenth meeting on the theme “The 
effects of climate change on oceans”. We believe that, 
with the recent entry into force of the Paris Agreement 
on Climate Change, which Peru has signed and ratified, 
it is vital that the General Assembly address that issue.
Peruvian waters are some of the most productive on 
the planet, providing 20 per cent of pelagic production 
worldwide, and in that way we contribute to global food 
security.  We  recognize,  however,  the  fragile  nature 
of  the  oceans  and  the  various  factors  which  threaten 
them. That is why Peru was one of the first countries 
to  declare  the  need  to  protect  fishery  resources  and 
other  marine  living  resources.  In  that  regard,  my 
delegation,  together  with  others,  actively  promotes  in 
various forums the establishment of rules to eliminate 
fisheries  subsidies,  which  contribute  to  overfishing 
and overexploitation. They have negative effects on the 
sustainability of marine resources, trade, food security 
and in general on sustainable development. At the same 
time, the stated objective is consistent with target 14.6 
of the 2030 Agenda.
In  view  of  the  former,  my  delegation  wishes 
to  conclude  this  statement  by  reiterating  its  strong 
commitment  to  all  General  Assembly  processes  that 
relate to oceans and the law of the sea, in conformity 
with  our  historic  concern  about  the  protection  of  the 
oceans  and  our  position  as  a  biologically  extremely 
diverse  country  that  recognizes  the  great  potential 
that  such  diversity  represents  for  future  generations. 
In  that  regard,  we  express  our  support  for  the  draft 
resolutions on oceans and the law of the sea (A/71/L.26) 
and  on  sustainable  fisheries  (A/71/L.24),  and  we 
are  co-sponsoring  draft  resolution  A/71/L.27,  which 
designates World Tuna Day.
Mr.  Rattray  (Jamaica):  My  delegation  welcomes 
the opportunity to participate in the debate on agenda 
item  73,  “Oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea”,  including 
sub-item  (b)  on  sustainable  fisheries.  We  thank  the 
Secretary-General for his annual comprehensive report 
(A/71/74) on developments and issues related to ocean 
affairs and the law of the sea.
As  an  island  State,  our  fortunes  and  existence 
are  inextricably  tied  to  the  oceans,  and  we  therefore 
value and hold dear efforts aimed at their preservation 
and  protection.  For  that  reason,  we  had  hoped  to  see 
even  stronger  language  in  the  draft  resolution  on  the 
oceans and the law of the sea (A/71/L,26), in keeping 
with  the  collective  commitment  to  which  we  are  all 
held  accountable.  It  is  our  view  that  the  adoption  of 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  provides  an 
essential framework for us to advance our work in that 
regard. Through a dedicated focus on Goal 14 and its 
corresponding targets, we are provided an opportunity 
to  ensure  effective  management  and  conservation  of 
our maritime resources for sustainable development.
Jamaica is pleased to note the steady progress that 
is being made in various forums devoted to oceans and 
the law of the sea. We applaud the many efforts that have 
been  made  at  the  bilateral,  regional  and  multilateral 
levels with the convening of numerous workshops and 
meetings,  and  other  initiatives,  all  of  which  have  the 
common objective of ensuring that we remain faithful 
to our obligations in this critical field.
As host of the International Seabed Authority, we 
are committed to the work that is being undertaken to 
secure the resources in the Area for the benefit of all, 
as  well  as  to  preserve  and  protect  the  environmental 
integrity of the deep seabed. We take this opportunity 
to  reiterate  our  congratulations 
to  Mr.  Michael 
Lodge on his election as the Secretary-General of the 
International  Seabed  Authority,  during  the  twenty-
second session of the Authority, held earlier this year.
Jamaica has consistently underscored the need for 
cooperation and collaboration to ensure that developing 
countries, such as ours, are able to claim their share of 
the  global  commons.  That  is  a  fundamental  principle 
enshrined in the United Nations Convention on the Law 
of the Sea (UNCLOS). The inviolable and non-derogable 
nature of this principle is a fundamental underpinning 
of our continuing discourse on oceans and the law of 
the sea.
Our long association with this process, dating back 
to the adoption of UNCLOS, continues to inspire our 
belief that there is tremendous scope for even greater 
cooperation on issues relating to our seas and oceans. 
For that reason, we are heartened by the very positive 
and  congenial  atmosphere 
that  characterizes  our 
discussions  on  biodiversity  beyond  areas  of  national 
jurisdiction. We remain convinced that the successful 
conclusion of a new instrument on the protection and 
conservation of the marine resources in areas beyond 
national  jurisdiction  is  a  necessary  and  important 
complement to ensure effective ocean governance.
Given  the  significant  technological  and  scientific 
advances  that  have  been  made  since  the  adoption 
16-41791
17/29
A/71/PV.54 
07/12/2016
of  UNCLOS,  it  is  imperative  that  we  examine  and 
establish the requisite framework to effectively govern 
the  management  and  sustainable  use  of  our  marine 
resources.  Moreover,  we  believe  that  this  should 
be  done  in  a  fair  and  equitable  manner.  We  regard 
the  International  Seabed  Authority  as  an  essential 
institution  that  should  feature  in  any  regime  going 
forward.  What  the  discussion  on  biodiversity  beyond 
areas  of  national  jurisdiction  strives  to  accomplish 
is  best  addressed  within  the  context  of  what  the 
Authority currently provides. Its work to date, as well 
as  its  strategic  value  as  an  organization  that  brings 
together so many member States, makes the Authority 
the  most  suitable  institution  to  ensure  that  the  new 
instrument for the biodiversity beyond areas of national 
jurisdiction is provided with the structure required for 
effective implementation. For my delegation, therefore, 
it is of vital importance that we make use of existing 
mechanisms as opposed to creating new ones.
The  participation  of  developing  countries 
in 
the  deliberations  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  is 
central  to  any  meaningful  consideration  of  the  issue. 
While  we  all  have  a  vested  interest  and  stake  in  this 
important  matter,  many  of  our  countries  are  heavily 
dependent  on  the  oceans  and  their  resources  for  their 
very  survival.  Much  of  our  way  of  life  in  Jamaica, 
including our food and nutrition, the tourism industry 
and our recreational activities, hinge on ensuring that 
our  maritime  space  is  adequately  protected  and  its 
resources are sustainably used. It is worth noting that 
fish  is  the  second  most  important  protein  in  our  diet, 
next  only  to  poultry.  In  addition,  the  contribution  of 
tourism to Jamaica’s economy represents 30 per cent of 
our gross domestic product.
Consequently, threats to our marine environment, 
which include overfishing, pollution and the impact of 
climate change, represent a real danger to our economic 
viability.  According  to  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  2016  report, 
The  State  of  the  World’s  Fisheries  and  Aquaculture, 
global  total  capture  fishery  production  in  2014  was 
93.4 million tonnes, of which 81.5 million tonnes were 
from marine waters. The report notes that the world’s 
marine fish stocks have not improved overall, despite 
notable  progress  in  some  areas,  and  that  biologically 
sustainable  levels  of  fish  stocks  have  decreased  from 
90 per cent in 1974 to 68.6 per cent in 2013.
We wish to place on record our deep appreciation 
for the invaluable work done by the Division for Ocean 
Affairs and the Law of the Sea, the tireless efforts and 
unswerving  commitment  of  which  has  been  central 
to  our  achievements  to  date.  The  Division  merits 
our  continued  support  and  requires  commensurate 
resources to enable it to continue to function effectively.
The need for resources is also critical in the case of 
the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf. 
My  delegation  is  concerned  that  the  lack  of  adequate 
resources  has  limited  the  participation  of  members 
from  developing  countries  who  were  elected  to  serve 
on that body. Without broad-based representation, can 
we truly say that the Commission has indeed fulfilled 
its  mandate?  We  therefore  urge  countries  that  are  in 
a  position  to  do  so,  to  make  the  necessary  resources 
available to the Commission. We welcome the support 
that  has  been  provided  by  donor  countries  to  the 
voluntary  trust  fund  established  for  the  purpose  of 
facilitating the participation of experts from developing 
countries. However, as overall funding levels are still 
far from satisfactory, we encourage others to consider 
making contributions in that regard.
In many respects, oceans remain largely uncharted, 
with vast numbers of species yet to be discovered. We 
therefore have an obligation to ensure that our focus is 
not just on how we can increase our knowledge about 
what lies beneath the surface of the sea, but also about 
how to increase our resolve to conserve and sustainably 
use those resources. For my delegation, therefore, the 
high-level  United  Nations  Conference  to  Support  the 
Implementation of Sustainable Development Goal 14, to 
be held in June 2017, assumes even greater significance, 
as it will afford us the opportunity to collectively and 
unreservedly address issues critical to the protection of 
our oceans.
We are at a vital point in our efforts to conserve and 
preserve our oceans and seas but can do so only if we 
remain steadfast in our commitment to work together 
and support one another. We must not resile from that 
responsibility but confront it with the seriousness and 
urgency  that  it  requires.  Rest  assured  that  Jamaica 
stands ready to play its part in that regard.
Mr.  Gafoor  (Singapore):  Singapore  regards  the 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
(UNCLOS) as one of the most important international 
conventions  in  existence.  It  provides  the  overarching 
framework  for  governance  of  the  world’s  oceans. 
Ambassador  Tommy  Koh  of  Singapore,  who  was  the 
President of the third United Nations Conference on the 
18/29 
16-41791
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.54
Law of the Sea, from 1980 to 1982, rightly described 
the Convention as a constitution for the oceans. Over 
the past two decades, UNCLOS has provided the legal 
framework  for  all  activities  in  the  oceans  and  seas, 
including  international  cooperation.  In  that  regard, 
we  welcome  Azerbaijan’s  accession  to  UNCLOS.  We 
urge  those  countries  that  have  yet  become  parties  to 
UNCLOS to do so as soon as possible.
The  omnibus  draft  resolution  (A/71/L.26)  before 
us  addresses  a  wide  spectrum  of  activities  that  are 
carried out in the oceans and seas and impact the entire 
international  community.  The  various  initiatives  and 
meetings relating to the Oceans and the Law of the Sea 
made  for  a  full  agenda  for  this  calendar  year.  Those 
meetings  were  held  independently  of  each  other,  but 
it  is  critical  to  underline  the  interlinkages  between 
them. In our view, it is important to achieve and sustain 
coherence  within  and  across  the  different  processes, 
including  by  recognizing  the  place  of  UNCLOS  at 
their  core.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  wishes  to 
make  a  few  comments  on  biological  diversity  beyond 
areas of national jurisdiction; the International Seabed 
Authority  (ISA);  the  United  Nations  Open-ended 
Informal Consultative Process; and the Regular Process 
for Global Reporting.
jurisdiction, 
With  regard  to  biodiversity  beyond  areas  of 
national 
the  Preparatory  Committee 
had  two  fruitful  sessions,  in  which  my  delegation 
actively participated. We welcome the opportunity for 
Mrs. Rena Lee, a member of the Singapore delegation, 
to contribute as the facilitator for the informal working 
group on capacity-building and the transfer of marine 
technology.  UNCLOS  enshrines  a  delicate  balance  of 
interests. The discussions on biodiversity beyond areas 
of national jurisdiction need to recognize and respect 
that balance. We trust that the constructive attitudes of 
delegations  will  continue.  Singapore  will  continue  to 
move  forward  and  work  closely  with  other  parties  to 
ensure  that  we  can  collectively  make  progress  on  the 
basis of consensus.
With  regard  to  the  ISA,  Singapore  has  continued 
to participate actively in the work of the International 
Seabed  Authority,  including  as  a  member  of  the  ISA 
Council. Mrs. Rena Lee of Singapore was elected this 
year to serve on the Legal and Technical Commission 
of  the  ISA  for  the  period  2017-2020.  That  is  a  great 
honour for Singapore. It underscores our commitment 
to  contribute  constructively  to  the  work  of  the  ISA 
in  safeguarding  the  common  heritage  of  humankind. 
We  also  welcome  the  continued  progress  of  the  ISA 
in  establishing  rules,  regulations  and  procedures  for 
activities in the Area under Part XI of UNCLOS.
Singapore  welcomes  the  submission  of  the  initial 
working draft of the regulations for exploitation at the 
twenty-second session of the ISA. We have submitted 
our  comments  on  the  draft.  The  completion  of  that 
work is a matter of priority. We also note the progress 
being made on the general and systematic review of the 
manner in which the international regime of the Area 
has operated. We look forward to the submission of the 
final report on the review by 15 April 2017. We thank 
ISA Secretary-General Nii Odunton for his leadership 
over the years, and we look forward to working with the 
incoming Secretary-General, Mr. Michael Lodge.
My delegation also participated in the seventeenth 
meeting  of  the  United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal 
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea, 
established by the General Assembly, which addressed 
the topic of marine debris, plastics and microplastics. We 
welcome the opportunity to reflect on the science and 
the  challenge  posed  by  microplastics,  the  importance 
of  prioritizing  prevention,  and  the  importance  of  an 
integrated  approach  to  the  management  of  activities, 
including coordinated action among various competent 
sectoral authorities. Next year, the Informal Consultative 
Process will focus on another pertinent topic: the effects 
of  climate  change  on  oceans.  Singapore  ratified  the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change three months ago. 
We welcomed its entry into force on 4 November this 
year.  Climate  change  continues  to  pose  a  significant 
risk  to  many  countries,  especially  to  small  island 
developing States like Singapore. We look forward to 
the exchange of views that will take place at next year’s 
Informal Consultative Process.
With  regard  to  the  Regular  Process,  Singapore 
believes  that  its  work  on  issues  pertaining  to  oceans 
must  continue  to  be  informed  by  research  into  and 
information on the oceans and related human activities. 
UNCLOS establishes the legal framework within which 
all activities in the oceans and seas must be carried out. 
However, stakeholders often have a limited view of the 
ocean  that  is  focused  on  their  own  sectoral  interests. 
We therefore appreciate the Regular Process for Global 
Reporting  and  Assessment  of  the  State  of  the  Marine 
Environment, including Socioeconomic Aspects. It has 
an important role to play in aiding our understanding 
of the marine environment, including its economic and 
social  aspects.  The  first  cycle  of  the  Regular  Process 
16-41791
19/29
A/71/PV.54 
07/12/2016
has  been  successfully  completed.  The  first  cycle 
resulted in the ground-breaking First Global Integrated 
Marine  Assessment.  The  Assessment  gave  us  very 
valuable insights. We must now build upon them for the 
second cycle of the Regular Process from 2016 to 2020 
and keep the momentum going.
Another  area  in  which  we  will  need  to  keep 
the  momentum  going  is  with  regard  to  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  (SDG)  14  on  the  conservation  and 
sustainable use of the oceans, seas and marine resources 
for  sustainable  development.  In  that  regard,  I  wish  to 
commend  the  President  for  his  personal  commitment 
and  his  leadership  in  supporting  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Oceans  and  Seas  to  Support  the 
Implementation  of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  14. 
We in Singapore share and support his vision that the 
Conference will serve as a platform for all stakeholders 
to  come  together  and  galvanize  the  international 
community  into  action  to  support  the  implementation 
of  SDG  14.  The  outcome  document,  the  partnership 
dialogues  and  the  voluntary  commitments  to  be 
announced  at  the  Conference  in  June  2017  will  make 
an  important  contribution  to  the  implementation  of 
SDG 14. Singapore attaches the greatest importance to 
the Conference. We regard it as an important priority 
not only for Singapore but for the entire international 
community. We look forward to actively participating in 
the Conference and to working with the two co-Chairs, 
Fiji and Sweden, as well as to working closely with all 
members of the international community to achieve a 
successful outcome.
My delegation would like to take this opportunity 
to thank the Secretary-General for his comprehensive 
report  (A/71/74)  on  this  agenda  item.  We  also  thank 
Mr. Thembile Joyini of South Africa and Mr. Andreas 
Kravik  of  Norway  for  their  work  in  coordinating  the 
informal consultations on the omnibus draft resolution 
(A/71/L.26)  and  the  draft  resolution  on  sustainable 
fisheries (A/71/L.24), respectively. We would also like 
to  express  our  thanks  to  the  Director  and  staff  of  the 
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for 
their  invaluable  support  to  Member  States  during  the 
informal consultations.
Mr.  Dinger  (United  States  of  America):  My 
delegation  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor  draft  resolutions 
A/71/L.26  and  A/71/L.24,  entitled, 
respectively, 
“Oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea”  and  “Sustainable 
fisheries, including through the 1995 Agreement for the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish 
Stocks, and related instruments”.
As many of those present know, Secretary of State 
John  Kerry  is  a  passionate  advocate  for  the  ocean 
because he recognizes that life on the planet depends on 
a healthy ocean. The ocean provides food and income 
for  billions  of  people.  It  regulates  our  weather  and 
climate.  It  generates  over  half  the  oxygen  we  breathe 
and  it  absorbs  much  of  our  excess  carbon  dioxide, 
helping to slow down the impacts of climate change.
But  the  ocean  is  in  trouble.  Over  30  per  cent  of 
the  world’s  assessed  fish  stocks  are  overfished,  and 
almost  60  per  cent  more  are  already  being  harvested 
at the maximum sustainable level. We add millions of 
tons of plastic into the ocean every year. The acidity of 
marine waters has risen 30 per cent since the industrial 
revolution, weakening the shells of some sea creatures, 
and  the  ocean  has  absorbed  over  90  per  cent  of  the 
Earth’s  additional  heat  since  the  1970s,  driving  up 
ocean temperature and sea levels.
Secretary  Kerry  hosted  the  third  Our  Ocean 
conference  in  Washington,  D.C.,  last  September  to 
focus the world’s attention, once again, on the key ocean 
issues  of  our  time  —  sustainable  fisheries,  marine 
pollution,  climate-related  impacts  on  the  ocean  and 
marine-protected areas — building on the commitments 
of  the  first  Our  Ocean  conference  in  Washington  in 
2014  and  the  second  in  Valparaiso,  Chile,  in  October 
2015.  Participants  at  the  third  Our  Ocean  conference 
announced new commitments to protecting the ocean, 
valued at over $5.2 billion, and pledging to safeguard 
almost 4 million square kilometres of the ocean.
To  date,  participants  from  the  three  Our  Ocean 
conferences have committed $9.2 billion in initiatives 
to  protect  the  ocean  and  pledged  to  safeguard  nearly 
9.9 million square kilometres of ocean. By adding the 
new  Ross  Sea  region  marine-protected  area,  the  total 
protected area now comprises some 11.5 million square 
kilometres,  an  area  roughly  equal  to  the  size  of  the 
continent of Africa or about 20 per cent of the Earth’s 
land area.
We look forward to building on those successes at 
the  next  Our  Ocean  conference  in  Malta,  in  October 
2017, to be hosted by the European Union, as well as 
the conferences to be hosted by Indonesia in 2018 and 
Norway  in  2019.  We  are  also  pleased  that  the  2017 
20/29 
16-41791
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.54
meeting  of  the  Open-ended  Informal  Consultative 
Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea will address 
the effects of climate change on oceans.
to 
The ocean and our climate are inextricably linked. 
The ocean absorbs much of our excess carbon dioxide 
and heat, but the damage caused by this phenomenon 
is already undermining marine ecosystems and coastal 
communities.  Without  additional  action 
limit 
emissions of greenhouse gases and rising temperatures, 
seas could rise up to 2 to 3 feet by the end of the century. 
Even modest temperature rises could affect more than 
one  billion  people  living  in  areas  exposed  to  regular 
coastal  flooding  and  lead  to  more  intense  coastal 
storms. Many fish species are moving toward the poles 
in  search  of  cooler  waters,  putting  fishing  economies 
at risk and endangering the more than 3 billion people 
around  the  world  who  rely  on  seafood  for  protein. 
Our  coral  reefs  are  showing  signs  of  devastation  as 
coral previously thought to be pristine and thriving is 
bleaching and dying.
That  is  why  the  ambitious  goals  and  actions  that 
countries  agreed  to  in  Paris  last  year  are  imperative 
and provide us with a hopeful path forward. Next year’s 
Informal  Consultative  Process  meeting  will  give  us 
an  opportunity to examine and raise awareness about 
the  impacts  of  climate  change  on  the  ocean,  marine 
ecosystems  and  coastal  communities,  and  strengthen 
our resolve to fully implement the Paris Agreement.
We are also pleased that this year’s draft resolution 
on  sustainable  fisheries  has  strengthened  the  call  to 
Member  States,  both  individually  and  collectively, 
to  conserve  and  sustainably  use  fish  stocks,  in  line 
with  our  broader  efforts  to  promote  healthy  marine 
ecosystems. It has been a productive year at the United 
Nations  for  sustainable  fisheries.  We  are  glad  that 
the  new  draft  resolution  acknowledges  the  important 
outcome  of  the  resumed  Review  Conference  of  the 
United Nations on the Fish Stocks Agreement, at which 
delegations  consolidated  and  strengthened  numerous 
recommendations,  including  on  issues  related  to  the 
conservation and management of stocks and improving 
monitoring, control, surveillance and enforcement.
the  discussion  on 
the 
implementation  of  previous 
language 
concerning  bottom  fishing  on  vulnerable  marine 
ecosystems  and  the  long-term  sustainability  of  deep-
sea  fish  stocks.  There  is  widespread  recognition  that 
considerable  progress  has  been  made  in  managing 
We  also  appreciate 
resolution 
bottom  fishing  and  preventing  significant  adverse 
impacts  on  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems  over  the 
past  decade,  including  the  establishment  of  new 
regional fisheries management organizations (RFMOs) 
and  binding  conservation  measures.  The  United 
Nations  reviews  and  recommendations  were  essential 
elements  of  that  effort.  However,  the  draft  resolution 
also  emphasizes  that  such  progress  remains  uneven. 
Implementation  urgently  needs  to  be  strengthened  by 
States and RFMOs.
This year’s draft resolution on sustainable fisheries 
also  contains  important  new  or  revised  language  in 
other  priority  areas.  For  example,  delegations  agreed 
to revise certain references to the Doha and Hong Kong 
ministerial  mandates  in  the  draft  resolution  that  have 
become  outdated  in  order  to  reflect  that  members  of 
the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)  are  no  longer 
negotiating  under  the  Doha  Development  Agenda 
(DDA)  framework.  While  the  draft  resolution  on 
sustainable fisheries quotes paragraph 173 of resolution 
66/288, “The future we want”, including its references 
to the DDA and the Doha and Hong Kong ministerial 
mandates,  these  references  have  been  included  in  the 
fisheries resolution since 2012 and are maintained for 
historical accuracy only.
Those references in no way override or supersede 
the  WTO  Nairobi  Ministerial  Declaration,  which  was 
agreed by all members of the WTO in December 2015. 
At  the  WTO  Ministerial  Conference,  WTO  members 
could  not  agree  to  reaffirm  the  DDA.  As  a  result, 
WTO  members  are  no  longer  negotiating  under  the 
DDA  framework.  Therefore,  the  United  States  firmly 
considers that the remaining historical references to the 
DDA and Doha and Hong Kong ministerial mandates 
in  the  draft  resolution  on  sustainable  fisheries  have 
no  standing  and  do  not  serve  as  precedent  for  future 
negotiated  documents.  The  draft 
resolution  on 
sustainable  fisheries  also  welcomes  the  entry  into 
force  of  the  Port  State  Measures  Agreement,  a  key 
accomplishment  of  the  international  community  that 
will  help  strengthen  our  efforts  to  combat  illegal, 
unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing.
Consistent  with  the  emphasis  on  climate  and  the 
draft  resolution  on  oceans,  the  draft  resolution  on 
sustainable  fisheries  includes  important  language, 
calling  upon  States  and  RFMOs  to  appropriately 
consider climate change and ocean acidification when 
establishing  conservation  and  management  measures, 
as  well  as  strengthening  cooperation  to  exchange 
16-41791
21/29
A/71/PV.54 
07/12/2016
related  scientific  information  and  best  practices.  The 
draft resolution also recognizes the importance of work 
to rebuild stocks, combat IUU fishing and address ghost 
fishing by abandoning lost or discarded fishing gear.
Both  the  draft  resolution  on  sustainable  fisheries 
and the draft resolution on oceans this year recall the 
General  Assembly’s  decision  to  convene  the  United 
Nations  Conference  to  Support  the  Implementation 
of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  14,  to  be  held  in 
New  York  in  June  2017.  We  thank  Fiji  and  Sweden 
for  co-hosting  the  Conference  and  welcome  it  as  an 
opportunity  for  the  global  community  to  identify 
further cooperation and efforts needed to implement the 
Sustainable  Development  Goal  14  targets  to  conserve 
and  sustainably  use  the  oceans,  seas  and  marine 
resources for sustainable development.
The  United  States  would  like  to  thank  Director 
Gabriele Goettsche-Wanli and the staff of the Division 
for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  their 
expertise  and  support  on  both  draft  resolutions.  We 
would also like to thank Mr. Thembile Joyini of South 
Africa  for  his  coordination  of  the  draft  resolution  on 
oceans  and  Mr.  Andreas  Kravik  of  Norway  for  his 
coordination of the draft resolution on fisheries. Both 
did an outstanding job.
Finally, we would like to express our appreciation 
for  the  delegation’s  hard  work  and  cooperation  in 
crafting both draft resolutions. It is our hope that this 
spirit  of  cooperation  will  characterize  our  efforts  to 
address the numerous and complex issues that lie ahead 
for the ocean.
Mr. Morales López (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): 
The delegation of Colombia would like to respectfully 
begin  our  statement  by  expressing  our  sincere  thanks 
to  Mr.  Thembile  Elphus  Joyini  of  South  Africa  and 
Mr.  Andreas  Motzfeldt  Kravik  of  Norway  for  their 
tireless efforts as coordinators of the draft resolutions 
A/71/L.26  and  A/71/L.24,  entitled, 
respectively, 
“Oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea”  and  “Sustainable 
fisheries, including through the 1995 Agreement for the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish 
Stocks,  and  related  instruments”,  by  conducting  the 
discussions with skill, transparency and a constructive 
spirit,  which  reflected  the  diversity  that  was  present 
during  consultations  on  the  part  of  all  States  that 
participated in them.
Colombia  is  a  nation  with  enormous  marine 
diversity. Thanks to its biogeographic conditions, with 
coasts  on  both  the  Atlantic  and  Pacific  Oceans,  it  is 
considered to be a privileged country with an enormous 
variety of marine and coastal ecosystems, whose health 
depends not only on coherent and responsible national 
management but also on that of other countries abutting 
those oceans.
that  emphasize 
As a highly diverse country, Colombia is committed 
to  conserving,  protecting  and  sustainably  developing 
those  oceans  by  implementing  policies,  plans  and 
programmes 
issue’s  national, 
regional and global importance. The country also has a 
solid institutional framework in the coastal and marine 
areas,  which  is  guided  by  a  comprehensive  vision  in 
which  seas,  coasts  and  their  resources  become  key 
elements of the country’s activities.
the 
For 
that  reason,  Colombia  acknowledges 
the 
valuable  contribution  that  the  draft  resolution  on 
oceans and the law of the sea represents. However, the 
draft  resolution  is  based  on  the  1982  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), a judicial 
instrument  that  Colombia  has  not  ratified.  Therefore, 
the tenets of the draft resolution are not obligatory or 
enforceable  in  my  country,  except  for  those  towards 
which it has expressly shown its acceptance. Similarly, 
my country does not believe that the Convention is the 
only legal framework to regulate activities carried out in 
oceans. My delegation wishes to reiterate that Colombia 
is developing its activity in the marine environment in 
strict adherence to the international commitments that 
is has expressly adopted or accepted.
Finally,  as  we  have  already  expressed  on  various 
occasions,  the  draft  resolution  and  our  participation 
in  its  adoption  should  not  be  seen  or  interpreted 
as  implying  our  express  or  tacit  acceptance  of  the 
provisions  of  UNCLOS.  The  constructive  spirit  that 
guides our country with respect to the oceans and the 
law of the sea is founded on the firm conviction that all 
nations  have  a  commitment  to  protect  the  sea  and  its 
resources, based on the fact that a sustainable future for 
the world largely depends on them. Colombia is ready 
to cooperate with other nations in working to tackle the 
challenges of protecting the health of oceans.
Mr. Estreme (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): First 
of  all,  allow  me  to  thank  the  two  coordinators  for 
22/29 
16-41791
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.54
having conducted the negotiations on draft resolutions 
A/71/L.26  and  A/71/L.24,  before 
the  General 
Assembly today.
My  delegation  reiterates  that  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  is  one  of  the 
international 
instruments  with  major  economic, 
strategic  and  political  implications.  Its  provisions 
constitute a delicate balance of the rights and obligations 
of  States,  which  must  be  respected  by  all  Member 
States.  This  delicate  balance  should  be  preserved, 
including  when  addressing  new  challenges  pertaining 
to the law of the sea and in processes established within 
the  framework  of  the  General  Assembly,  particularly 
those pertaining to marine biodiversity of areas beyond 
national  jurisdiction  and  the  implementation  of  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The General Assembly decided to initiate a process 
to  establish  the  legal  framework  for  the  conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of 
areas beyond national jurisdiction, which contemplates 
the possibility of formulating a multilateral agreement 
under  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law 
of  the  Sea.  The  Preparatory  Committee  convened 
under resolution 69/292 should jointly and as a whole 
address  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  the 
marine  biological  diversity  of  areas  beyond  national 
jurisdiction,  in  particular  marine  genetic  resources, 
including  benefit-sharing,  conservation  measures, 
capacity-building and technology transfer, with a view 
to making recommendations to the General Assembly. 
Argentina  believes  that  it  is  necessary  to  agree  by 
consensus  on  the  scope  and  parameters  of  a  possible 
future agreement as an essential step before initiating a 
negotiation process.
With  regard  to  the  substance  of  the  matter,  my 
delegation would like to reiterate that due consideration 
must be given to what is at stake, namely, the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  biological  resources  of  areas 
beyond  national  jurisdiction,  and  that  the  Convention 
solemnly  declared  that  the  area  of  the  seabed  and 
ocean  floor  and  their  subsoil  beyond  the  limits  of 
national  jurisdiction,  as  well  as  their  resources,  were 
the  common  heritage  of  humankind,  the  exploration 
and exploitation of which should be carried out for the 
benefit of humankind. For Argentina, that principle is 
the basis for considering the issue and must be included 
in any future agreement.
Argentina  is  convinced  that  the  illicit  trade  in 
endangered species of wild flora and fauna, including 
by  sea,  requires  compliance  with  the  rules  of  the 
Convention  on  International  Trade  in  Endangered 
Species  of  Wild  Fauna  and  Flora  and  the  cooperation 
of  States  to  suppress  such  illicit  trade.  At  the  same 
time,  it  must  also  be  consistent  with  the  language 
of  the  Convention  so  as  to  avoid  confusion  among 
legal  institutions  and  the  applicable  remedies  under 
international law.
Argentina  would  like  to  thank  the  Commission 
on the Limits of the Continental Shelf for its arduous 
and ongoing work. With more extended sessions, some 
challenges have arisen. The draft resolution that we will 
adopt  again  provides  for  some  provisional  measures, 
to  address,  in  particular,  the  issues  of  workspace  and 
medical  coverage.  However,  it  is  still  necessary  to 
work  towards  ensuring  a  permanent  solution  to  the 
issues raised.
The function of the Commission is very important 
for  Member  States.  We  must  therefore  ensure  that 
it  be  provided  with  adequate  resources  and  needed 
conditions of service. We hope that, in the framework 
of the open-ended working group on the conditions of 
service  of  the  members  of  the  Commission,  Member 
States will continue to make efforts so that emerging 
challenges are addressed effectively and expeditiously. 
In this regard, the continued assistance of the Secretary-
General is highly relevant.
In  addition,  I  would  like  to  recall  that  the 
Commission’s  work  pertains  to  demarcating  the  limit 
already established in article 76, and not to the rights 
of coastal States. Paragraph 3, article 77, part VI, of the 
Convention provides that
“[t]he  rights  of  the  coastal  State  over  the 
continental  shelf  do  not  depend  on  occupation, 
effective or notional, or on any express proclamation.”
That  is  reflected  in  paragraph  80  of  draft  resolution 
A/71/L.26, on oceans and the law of the sea.
Argentina  welcomes  this  year  as  the  twentieth 
anniversary of the International Tribunal for the Law of 
the Sea and wishes to acknowledge the contributions to 
the development of international law, and of the law of 
the sea in particular, as well as the peaceful settlement 
of disputes. The Tribunal has a highly relevant job, as 
the  judicial  authority  created  by  the  Convention,  to 
work to resolve cases relating to different aspects of the 
16-41791
23/29
A/71/PV.54 
07/12/2016
law of the sea. Argentina has supported the work of the 
Tribunal since its establishment and is one of the State 
parties that have accepted its jurisdiction, to which we 
welcome  the  fact  that  it  has  been  established  as  the 
specialized Tribunal on the law of the sea.
Turning 
to  draft 
resolution  A/71/L.24,  on 
sustainable fisheries, my delegation must reiterate the 
need to avoid diverging from the rule with regard to any 
negotiation on the law of the sea originating from the 
Convention and move forward by consensus.
With regard to the protection of vulnerable marine 
ecosystems, it must be recalled that, in accordance with 
article 77 of the Convention, the sedentary resources of 
the continental shelf are subject to the sovereignty rights 
of the coastal States for the full extent of that maritime 
area.  Therefore,  the  conservation  and  management  of 
such resources is under the exclusive powers of coastal 
States,  which  have  the  responsibility  to  adopt  the 
necessary measures regarding such resources and their 
associated ecosystems that could be affected by fishing 
practices having a destructive impact, including bottom 
fishing in the high seas. In that regard, Argentina has 
adopted measures for the conservation of the sedentary 
resources and vulnerable marine ecosystems along the 
full extent of its continental shelf.
My country wishes to reiterate its concern about the 
trend  towards  attempts  to  legitimize  through  General 
Assembly  resolutions  efforts  by  regional  fisheries 
management  organizations  to  adopt  measures  beyond 
their spatial, material and personal scope of application. 
Argentina  objects  to  such  interpretations  of  General 
Assembly  resolutions.  Argentina  also  expresses  its 
concern  about  the  attempts  to  legitimize,  through 
pronouncements of the Assembly, actions of groups of 
States  that  seek  to  regulate  matters  pertaining  to  the 
marine  biological  diversity  of  zones  beyond  national 
jurisdiction, when there is no universally agreed legal 
framework allowing for such actions.
Finally, Argentina expresses its acknowledgement 
and  thanks  to  all  the  staff  of  the  Division  of  Ocean 
Affairs and the Law of the Sea for their professionalism 
and hopes that the measures to strengthen the resources 
to the Division provided for in the draft resolution on 
oceans and the law of the sea will be approved within the 
framework of the Fifth Committee in a timely manner.
is  a  country 
surrounded entirely by the sea. Every year, on the third 
Monday in July, the Japanese celebrate Marine Day, a 
(Japan):  Japan 
Mr.  Akahori 
national  holiday,  to  express  gratitude  to  the  blessings 
of the sea and pray for prosperity as a maritime nation. 
Since  ancient  times,  the  sea  has  blessed  us  with  food 
and continues to provide trade routes with all countries. 
Japan’s  activities  on  matters  related  to  the  ocean  and 
the law of the sea are based on this sense of gratitude.
Japan  is  happy  to  co-sponsor  draft  resolution
A/71/L.26, on the oceans and the law of the sea, along 
with  more  than  30  Member  States.  Open  and  stable 
seas  are  essential  for  the  peace  and  prosperity  of  the 
international community as a whole, and it is necessary 
to  maintain  and  promote  them.  The  promotion  of  the 
rule  of  law  at  sea  is  therefore  extremely  important. 
That  is  why  Prime  Minister  Abe  has  emphasized  the 
following three principles on the rule of law at sea.
First,  States  should  make  and  clarify  their  claims 
based  on  international  law.  Secondly,  States  should 
not  use  force  or  coercion  in  trying  to  advance  their 
claims. Thirdly, States should seek to settle disputes by 
peaceful means. The draft resolution includes the spirit 
of all these principles. By adopting the draft resolution, 
Member  States  can  express  their  collective  will  to 
uphold these principles.
Japan  welcomes  the  increasingly  important  role 
of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
in  the  peaceful  resolution  of  maritime  disputes.  We 
congratulate the Tribunal on its twentieth anniversary. 
We  sincerely  hope  that  the  Tribunal  will  contribute 
to  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  at  sea  through  the 
accumulation of important judgments. Japan’s support 
for  the  Tribunal’s  twentieth  anniversary  symposium 
in Hamburg this past October is a symbol of our high 
regard for it and its continued role. Japan is the largest 
assessed contributor to the Tribunal and will continue 
to  support  its  activities  by  providing  highly  qualified 
legal professionals.
the 
Japan 
appreciates 
legal  order  concerning 
International  Seabed 
Authority’s  steady  implementation  of  its  mandate 
to  build  a  maritime 
the 
international  seabed  area.  A  balanced  approach 
to  the  exploitation  of  the  deep  seabed  which  takes 
environmental  conservation  into  account  is  needed. 
Japan  will  continue  to  contribute  to  constructive 
discussions  on  formulating  an  exploitation  code  that 
strikes  a  reasonable  balance  between  exploitation 
and  the  environment.  Japan  will  also  continue  to  be 
actively engaged with the work of the Authority, whose 
importance  is  ever  increasing  in  terms  of  human  and 
24/29 
16-41791
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.54
financial  resources.  We  are  committed  to  proactively 
contributing to the development of a legal order for the 
deep seabed through the Authority.
Japan recognizes the important role played by the 
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf 
and  has  consistently  contributed  human  and  financial 
resources  to  support  its  activities.  We  decided  to 
nominate  Professor  Toshitsugu  Yamazaki  of 
the 
University  of  Tokyo  as  a  candidate  for  next  year’s 
elections to the Commission. Professor Yamazaki is one 
of  Japan’s  most  prominent  marine  geologists.  We  are 
confident that he will continue the tradition of Japanese 
members of the Commission, including current member 
Professor Urabe, of making a strong contribution to the 
Commission’s work.
We are contributing to enable the participation of 
members of the Commission from developing countries. 
For  that  purpose,  as  part  of  our  financial  support  to 
the  Commission,  we  have  contributed  approximately 
$56,000  this  year  to  the  Trust  Fund.  We  are  looking 
into further increasing that contribution next year. We 
hope that our contributions, together with those of all 
other  Member  States,  will  lead  to  the  continued  and 
rapid progress of the work of the Commission.
Convention on the Law of the Sea on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity 
beyond areas of national jurisdiction. Japan welcomes 
the two sessions of the Preparatory Committee that were 
held  this  year  for  that  purpose.  Japan  recognizes  the 
great  importance  of  the  conservation  and  sustainable 
use  of  marine  biological  diversity  beyond  areas  of 
national  jurisdiction,  and  will  continue  to  actively 
support the Preparatory Committee’s work to develop a 
well-balanced, international legally binding instrument 
that benefits the entire international community.
Finally, with regard to the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) that pertain to the ocean, we welcome the 
plans to hold the high-level United Nations Conference 
to Support the Implementation of SDG 14 in New York 
next year.
Before  concluding,  Japan  would  like  to  thank  the 
delegation  of  South  Africa  for  its  important  role  in 
facilitating  draft  resolution  A/71/L.26.  We  are  also 
grateful  to  all  Member  States  and  the  Secretariat  for 
their support during the informal consultations. Japan 
is  confident  that  this  same  spirit  of  cooperation  will 
continue  after  the  draft  resolution’s  adoption  in  the 
General Assembly.
The  world  unfortunately  continues  to  confront 
a  wide  range  of  non-traditional  maritime-security 
challenges.  As  a  country  that  benefits  from  maritime 
trade, Japan believes that it is vital to respond to piracy 
and armed robbery, which endanger sea lanes. We are 
a proud contributor to international anti-piracy efforts 
on this front.
Mrs.  Nguyen  Phuong  Nga  (Viet  Nam):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for the comprehensive reports contained in documents 
A/71/74 and A/71/74/Add.1, which provide information 
on  recent  developments  relating  to  oceans  and  the 
law  of  the  sea  and  emphasize  the  importance  of  the 
sustainable development of oceans and seas.
Japan  has  continuously  deployed  its  Self-Defense 
Forces in anti-piracy operations off the coast of Somalia 
and in the Gulf of Aden since 2009. Further, in Asia, we 
have contributed human and financial resources to the 
activities  of  the  Regional  Cooperation  Agreement  on 
Combating  Piracy  and  Armed  Robbery  against  Ships 
in  Asia,  which  celebrated  its  tenth  anniversary  this 
year.  Japan  has  provided  seamless  support  to  coastal 
States seeking to increase their capacity to strengthen 
maritime-law  enforcement.  This  support 
includes 
official  development  assistance,  defence-equipment 
cooperation  and  capacity-building  assistance  with  the 
goal  of  securing  the  rule  of  law.  We  hope  to  further 
enhance this assistance going forward.
resolution  69/292 
the 
international 
consultative  process 
legally  binding  instrument  under  the  United  Nations 
Last  year, 
launched 
to  develop  an 
We  would  also  like  to  express  our  appreciation 
for the enormous efforts of the General Assembly and 
its  subsidiary  organs,  especially  the  outcomes  of  the 
seventeenth  meeting  of United  Nations  Open-ended 
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law 
of the Sea and the twenty-sixth Meeting of States Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea. We encourage the General Assembly to take into 
account and support the recommendations contained in 
the reports of those meetings.
We welcome the outcomes of various meetings of the 
Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working Group to study 
issues relating to the conservation and sustainable use 
of marine biological diversity beyond areas of national 
jurisdiction  as  further  steps  towards  an  international 
legally  binding  instrument  under  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS).  Viet 
16-41791
25/29
A/71/PV.54 
07/12/2016
Nam appreciates the successful activities of the organs 
established  by  the  Convention,  including  the  twenty-
second  session  of  the  International  Seabed  Authority, 
and  the  collaborative  efforts  of  the  Commission  on 
the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  to  consider  the 
submissions  made  by  States  parties.  We  especially 
value  the  role,  contribution  and  jurisdiction  of  the 
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and other 
dispute-settlement  mechanisms  in  the  interpretation 
and application of UNCLOS.
After  more  than  30  years  since  its  creation  and 
more than 20 years since its entry into force, UNCLOS 
has been the most important legal document regulating 
all  activities  in  the  oceans  and  seas,  contributing 
to  peace  and  security  and  ensuring  safety,  security 
and  freedom  of  navigation  and  overflight  at  sea. 
UNCLOS  provides  a  comprehensive  legal  framework 
for  the  peaceful,  equitable,  sustainable  and  efficient 
management  and  use  of  marine  resources  for  the 
prosperity of humankind. It obliges the States parties, 
whether big or small, to fully implement its provisions 
in  good  faith  and  in  a  responsible  manner  so  that  the 
sovereignty, legitimate rights and interests of all States 
are respected. Moreover, the Convention has provided a 
comprehensive and efficient framework for the peaceful 
settlement of disputes.
As  a  State  party  to  the  Convention  and  a  coastal 
State  on  the  East  Sea,  Viet  Nam  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  peace,  stability  and  sustainable 
development  of  the  oceans  and  seas.  Viet  Nam  was 
among  the  first  countries  to  sign  and  ratify  the 
Convention  and  has  always  adhered  to  its  provisions, 
respected  the  legitimate  rights  and  interests  of  other 
nations and actively participated in activities within the 
framework of the Convention. Viet Nam encourages the 
General  Assembly  to  pay  due  attention  to  sustainable 
development  and  conservation  of  marine  diversity. 
Viet  Nam  urges  all  nations  to  respect  and  fulfil  their 
obligations  to  ensure  peace,  stability  and  sustainable 
development of the oceans, according to the Convention 
and international law.
The  ocean  is  an  invaluable  gift  of  nature  to 
humankind,  and  it  is  our  responsibility  to  preserve  it 
for  present  and  future  generations.  However,  recent 
complicated developments in some parts of the world, 
including the East Sea, are posing a threat to international 
peace,  security  and  sustainable  development.  We 
therefore  call  upon  all  parties  concerned  to  exercise 
self-restraint,  solve  disputes  by  peaceful  means  in 
accordance with international law, including UNCLOS, 
fully respect diplomatic and legal processes, implement 
the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South 
China Sea and expedite the completion of the code of 
conduct for the South China Sea.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  Viet 
Nam’s  commitment  to  the  objectives  and  purposes  of 
UNCLOS.  We  look  forward  to  the  high-level  United 
Nations Conference to Support the Implementation of 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  14:  Conserve  and 
sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources 
for  sustainable  development,  to  be  held  in  June  2017, 
and will work closely with Member States to make the 
Conference a great success.
Mr. Yelchenko (Ukraine): More than 25 years ago, 
as a young diplomat I spoke for the first time from this 
very rostrum on this agenda item. Today, I would like 
to  express  our  gratitude  to  the  Secretariat  and  to  the 
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for 
the work done during the intervening years, including 
the preparation of this year’s annual report on oceans 
and the law of the sea and its addendum (A/71/74).
The  issue  of  the  marine  environment  continues 
to be a matter of most serious concern due to climate 
change, marine debris, overfishing and illegal fishing. 
It is therefore important to keep working to fulfil our 
commitments  under 
the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, Goal 14 of which recognizes the importance of 
oceans and their resources. We welcome the sustainable 
fisheries draft resolution (A/71/L.24), which addresses 
the  problem  of  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
fisheries,  which  constitute  a  major  threat  to  marine 
biodiversity and ecosystems.
Ukraine  is  strongly  committed  to  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Seas (UNCLOS), 
the constitution of the oceans, which reflects customary 
international  law  and  establishes  the  overarching 
legal  framework  for  all  activities  in  oceans  and  seas. 
The  States  parties  to  UNCLOS  have  recognized  the 
desirability  of  establishing,  through  the  Convention, 
with  due  regard  for  the  sovereignty  of  all  States,  a 
legal  order  for  oceans  and  seas  that  will  facilitate 
international communication and promote the peaceful 
use  of  oceans  and  seas,  the  equitable  and  efficient 
utilization of their resources, the conservation of living 
resources and the study, protection and preservation of 
the marine environment.
26/29 
16-41791
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.54
Unfortunately,  today  this  universally  recognized 
legal  order  faces  great  challenges  in  Ukraine  and  its 
adjoining  maritime  areas.  In  view  of  the  occupation 
of  the  Autonomous  Republic  of  Crimea  and  the  city 
of  Sevastopol,  Ukraine’s  rights  as  a  coastal  State  in 
maritime zones adjacent to Crimea in the Black Sea and 
the Kerch Strait have been interfered with and usurped 
by the aggressor State. Ukraine is unable to carry out 
its international obligations under the relevant treaties 
and  conventional  instruments  in  the  maritime  areas 
appertaining  to  the  Crimean  peninsula,  including  the 
provision of the safety and security of navigation, the 
regulation  of  maritime  traffic,  the  protection  of  the 
marine environment and search and rescue.
As  a  result,  the  north-eastern  part  of  the  Black 
Sea has literally become a grey area for international 
shipping, which is evidenced by the increased number 
of  marine  casualties  and  incidents.  In  this  regard, 
it  is  worth  mentioning  that  at  the  recent,  ninety-
seventh  session  of  the  Maritime  Safety  Committee 
of  the  International  Maritime  Organization  (IMO),  a 
document  entitled  “Safety  and  security  of  navigation 
in the north-eastern part of the Black Sea”, submitted 
by  Ukraine  and  Georgia,  was  considered,  and  it  was 
agreed  that  monitoring  of  the  security  and  safety  of 
navigation in that part of the Black Sea should begin. 
Moreover, in September, Ukraine officially served the 
Russian  Federation  with  a  notification  of  arbitration 
and  a  statement  of  claim  instituting  ad  hoc  arbitral 
proceedings under UNCLOS to vindicate its rights as 
a  coastal  State  in  maritime  zones  adjacent  to  Crimea 
in the Black Sea, the Sea of Azov and the Kerch Strait.
We  would  like  to  echo  the  latest  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea, 
which emphasizes that the ability of States to maximize 
benefits from oceans and seas and develop a sustainable 
ocean-based  economy  depends  on  maintaining  and 
enhancing the security of maritime spaces. Given that, 
we condemn the incidents of piracy and armed robbery 
at sea, transnational organized crime and terrorism in 
the maritime domain, trafficking in persons, smuggling 
of  migrants, 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
fishing,  and  other  maritime  activities  that  threaten 
global stability, security and prosperity.
Although we are encouraged by the achievements 
of the international community in countering maritime 
piracy, Ukraine wishes to underscore that no sustainable 
results are possible without dealing with the root causes 
of  piracy  and  robbery  at  sea  and  bringing  to  justice 
the perpetrators of such acts and their organizers and 
facilitators  on  land.  We  express  our  growing  concern 
over the high number of incidents of piracy and armed 
robbery  at  sea  in  the  Gulf  of  Guinea.  At  the  same 
time,  we  are  glad  to  see  that  the  number  of  the  same 
incidents  at  sea  off  the  Somalian  coast  has  fallen  to 
its lowest level since 1995. We are proud that Ukraine 
actively contributed to this positive dynamic, including 
throughout  the  first  half  of  our  elected  term  in  the 
Security Council.
In  conclusion,  Ukraine  urges  coastal  States,  flag 
States and industry to do everything possible to ensure 
the safety and security of maritime shipping, especially 
in  high-risk  regions.  Ukraine  stands  ready  to  further 
cooperate  with  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations, the IMO and other relevant actors, with a view 
to  achieving  the  aforementioned  goal,  in  accordance 
with existing international obligations.
Mr.  Madimi  (India):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  thank  Mr.  Thembile  Joyini  of  South  Africa, 
Mr. Andreas Kravik of Norway and Mrs. Margo Deiye 
of Nauru for coordinating this year’s draft resolutions 
A/7/L.26,  A/71/L.24  and  A/71/L.27,  on  oceans  and 
the  law  of  the  sea,  sustainable  fisheries,  and  World 
Tuna  Day,  respectively,  under  sub-items  (a)  and  (b) 
of agenda item 73. We are in fact one of the sponsors 
of  the  draft  resolution  on  World  Tuna  Day,  and  we 
support  the  adoption  of  all  three  resolutions  by  the 
General Assembly.
India has a long maritime history. We have a long 
coastline — more than 7,500 kilometres — and we are 
located  on  the  world’s  major  maritime  trading  routes. 
Further, India has long been dedicated to multilateralism 
in  the  conduct  of  global  affairs.  We  were  one  of  the 
first  signatories  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), in 1982, having actively 
participated  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
leading up to the finalization of the Convention.
UNCLOS, 
together  with 
related  agreements, 
represents  a  major  achievement  in  the  codification 
and  progressive  development  of  international  law.  It 
enjoys the wide acceptance of 167 States parties and the 
European Union. The Convention, which is described 
as the constitution of the oceans and seas, provides the 
legal framework for the use of oceans and seas and their 
resources by establishing a delicate balance between the 
need for economic and social development, on the one 
hand, and the need to protect and preserve the marine 
16-41791
27/29
A/71/PV.54 
07/12/2016
environment  and  conserve  and  manage  its  resources, 
on the other.
The  oceans  cover  almost  three  quarters  of  the 
Earth. The States look to oceanic resources as a means 
to  economic  growth  and  social  advancement;  and 
development of an ocean-based economy is attracting 
more  attention  today.  It  is  in  this  context  that  India, 
in  its  interactions  with  other  States,  especially  the 
littoral States of the Indian Ocean, is underscoring the 
importance of cooperation in the blue economy.
to 
In over two decades of its operation, the Convention 
has  contributed  pre-eminently 
the  sustainable 
development of the oceans and seas and to the promotion 
of the economic and social advancement of all peoples 
of the world. This is reflected in the document entitled 
“The  future  we  want”  (resolution  66/288,  annex) 
echoing the Millennium Development Goals adopted in 
2000 and in “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development”, the outcome document 
of  the  2015  United  Nations  Sustainable  Development 
Summit (resolution 70/1).
Sustainable Development Goal 14, which contains 
some  10  targets,  recognizes  the  importance  and 
critical role of the oceans and seas in the achievement 
of  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  In  this  regard, 
we  appreciate  the  initiative  of  Fiji  and  Sweden  to 
organize the United Nations Conference to Support the 
Implementation of the Goal 14, in June 2017, coinciding 
with World Oceans Day.
We  must  however  be  cognizant  of  the  fact  that 
realizing  the  full  potential  of  the  oceans  and  seas 
depends  on  carrying  out  ocean-based  activities  in  a 
sustainable manner, in accordance with internationally 
agreed principles, in particular the principles contained 
in  the  Convention.  Our  oceans  face  huge  challenges, 
including the deterioration of the marine environment, 
biodiversity 
illegal  fishing 
practices  and  issues  relating  to  maritime  safety  and 
security,  including  the  acts  of  piracy  and  armed 
robbery at sea. We are happy to have actively engaged 
with the work of the Contact Group on Piracy off the 
Coast of Somalia, which has significantly contributed 
in controlling piracy in the western Indian Ocean.
loss,  climate  change, 
We thank the Secretary-General for his report and 
its  addendum  on  issues  concerning  oceans  and  the 
law  of  the  sea  (A/71/74  and  A/71/74/Add.1).  We  note 
that  the  report  outlines  the  contribution  of  oceans  to 
the environmental, social and economic dimensions of 
sustainable development, the manner in which UNCLOS 
addresses those dimensions, and the opportunities for, 
and challenges to, the enhanced integration of the three 
dimensions  of  sustainable  development  in  relation 
to oceans.
We welcome the report of the seventeenth meeting of 
the United Nations Open-ended Informal Consultative 
Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea (A/71/204), in 
which the deliberations focused on the topic of marine 
debris,  plastics  and  microplastics.  We  support  the 
continuation of the Process for the next two years, since 
it is a unique forum for comprehensive discussion by all 
the stakeholders on the topics of interest to the world, 
within the framework of the UNCLOS and chapter 17 
of the Agenda 21. We look forward to contributing to 
the  discussion  of  the  topics  of  the  effects  of  climate 
change on oceans and anthropogenic underwater noise.
We also welcome the report of the seventh meeting 
of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  of  the  Whole  on  the 
Regular Process for Global Reporting and Assessment 
of  the  State  of  the  Marine  Environment,  including 
Socioeconomic  Aspects 
(A/71/362).  Further,  we 
welcome the launching of the second cycle of the regular 
process of the global integrated marine assessment to 
evaluate trends and identify gaps in the oceans’ health, 
and establish a programme of work for the period 2017-
2020.
international 
Another area of significant interest and importance 
to my delegation and to the international community is 
conservation and the sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  beyond  areas  of  national  jurisdiction.  We 
appreciate  the  rich  discussion  and  exchange  of  views 
at  the  first  and  second  sessions  of  the  Preparatory 
Committee  on  an 
legally  binding 
instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of 
marine  biological  diversity  beyond  areas  of  national 
jurisdiction,  established  by  the  General  Assembly  in 
resolution 69/292. We look forward to the two sessions 
that  will  be  held  next  year  in  which  the  Preparatory 
Committee will make substantive recommendations to 
the General Assembly on the elements of a draft text for 
an  international  legally  binding  instrument  under  the 
UNCLOS.  We  appreciate  the  leadership  of  Mr.  Eden 
Charles  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  and  thank  him  for 
chairing  and  steering  the  Preparatory  Committee 
proceedings in a very able manner.
The  smooth 
established  under 
functioning  of 
the 
the  Convention,  namely, 
institutions 
the 
28/29 
16-41791
07/12/2016 
A/71/PV.54
the 
International  Seabed  Authority, 
International 
Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  the  Commission 
on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf,  hold  the  key 
to  the  proper  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  the 
Convention and to the realization of the desired benefits 
resulting from the use of the seas. We therefore support 
all efforts towards ensuring these institutions’ efficient 
and effective functioning and note with satisfaction the 
progress made by them in their respective areas.
Finally,  India,  as  a  responsible  partner  of  the 
international community and as a country with a vast 
coastline  and  numerous  islands,  has  a  long-standing 
and abiding interest in maritime and ocean affairs and 
assures its full cooperation in efforts aimed at ensuring 
the  proper  management  and  sustainable  use  of  the 
oceans and seas.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
16-41791
29/29
