United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
50th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 30 November 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.50
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
 In the absence of the President, Mr. Mnatsakanyan 
(Armenia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 35 (continued)
Question of Palestine
Report of the Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People 
(А/71/35)
Report of the Secretary-General (А/71/359)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/71/174)
Draft resolutions (A/71/L.18, A/71/L.19, 
A/71/L.20 and A/71/L.21)
Mrs.  Matar  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 
the  honour  to  deliver  a  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
Permanent Representative of the Kingdom of Bahrain 
to the United Nations.
On this occasion, His Majesty King Hamad bin Isa 
Al Khalifa of Bahrain has sent a letter of solidarity with 
the Palestinian people to the Committee on the Exercise 
of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, in 
which he writes:
“The  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  People  reflects  the  attention  that  the 
United  Nations  and  the  international  community 
attach  to  the  question  of  Palestine  and  their  solid 
commitment to meeting the legitimate aspirations 
of  Palestinians  and  to  granting  them  their  rights, 
including  the  right  to  self-determination  and  the 
right  to  establish  their  own  independent  State, 
similar to other peoples of the world.”
His Majesty also writes:
“The Kingdom of Bahrain has always stressed 
its  support  for  the  establishment  of  a  State  of 
Palestine  with  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  We  have 
always  called  on  the  international  community  to 
make  every  effort  to  grant  the  Palestinian  people 
their  inalienable  rights  and  to  achieve  a  just  and 
comprehensive peace, in accordance with relevant 
United  Nations  resolutions,  including  Security 
Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973),  1397 
(2002)  and  1515  (2003),  based  on  the  two-State 
solution,  the  Madrid  terms  of  reference  of  the 
peace  process  and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative.  All 
of  these  instruments  call  for  the  full  withdrawal 
of  Israel  from  Palestinian  territories,  including 
East  Jerusalem,  and  from  all  Arab  territories 
occupied since 1967. They also call for granting the 
Palestinian people their inalienable rights.”
I  would  like  to  extend  my  sincere  thanks  to 
the  Chair  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Fodé  Seck,  Permanent  Representative 
of Senegal to the United Nations, and to all members 
of  the  Committee  for  their  valuable  report  (A/71/35). 
I  would  also  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to  all 
members of the Committee for their ongoing efforts to 
ensure the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people 
and to allow Palestinians to put an end to the occupation 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-40731 (E)
*1640731*
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
and establish their own independent State on their land, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital.
Initiative, which is the only genuine solution that would 
lay the foundation for peace in the region.
The  Committee’s  report  reflects  the  deteriorating 
situation in the occupied Palestinian territory, including 
with  respect  to  the  situation  of  the  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms of the Palestinian people. Those 
rights  are  inalienable  and  fundamental,  according  to 
Security Council resolution 237 (1967). The outrageous 
deterioration of the situation in the occupied territories, 
as  detailed  in  the  report,  is  the  result  of  Israel’s 
annexation  and  settlement  policy  and  its  continued 
construction  of  the  separation  wall  in  the  West  Bank 
and around Jerusalem.
We  reiterate  our  thanks  to  the  Committee  and 
the  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  for 
their 
to 
activities  during  the  reporting  period,  as  detailed  in 
the  Committee’s  report.  Those  activities  include  the 
International Conference on the Question of Jerusalem, 
which  took  place  in  Jakarta  on  14  and  15  December, 
2015;  the  United  Nations  Civil  Society  Forum  on  the 
Question of Palestine, under the theme of “Civil society 
action in support of justice in Palestine and ending the 
occupation”, held in Jakarta on 16 December, 2015; the 
United  Nations  Round  Table  on  Legal  Aspects  of  the 
Question of Palestine, in Amman from 15 to 17 March; 
the  International  Conference  on  the  Question  of 
Jerusalem, in Dakar on 3 and 4 May; the United Nations 
Seminar  on  Assistance  to  the  Palestinian  People,  in 
Stockholm  on  19  and  20  May;  and  other  activities 
seeking to raise awareness of the just Palestinian cause. 
We would also like to thank the Department of Public 
Information  for  its  special  information  programme 
on  the  question  of  Palestine,  for  its  annual  training 
programme for Palestinian journalists, and for its call 
on  all  United  Nations  information  centres  to  carry 
out  activities  related  to  the  inalienable  rights  of  the 
Palestinian people.
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  reiterates 
its  firm 
position  in  support  of  the  Palestinian  question.  We 
must  strive  to  meet  the  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian 
people  to  achieve  a  comprehensive,  just  and  lasting 
peace  that  will  guarantee  the  legitimate  rights  of  the 
Palestinian people, including the establishment of their 
own independent State, with Jerusalem as its capital, on 
all territories that have been occupied since 1967. That 
must be done in a manner that will ensure the return 
of Palestinian refugees to their homeland, pursuant to 
international  terms  of  reference  and  the  Arab  Peace 
Ms.  Lodhi  (Pakistan):  We  commemorate  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People every year. Yet for far too long the Day has been 
a somber and grim reminder of the unending suffering 
of  the  Palestinian  people  at  the  hands  of  an  occupier 
that  has  shown  utter  disregard  for  the  principles  of 
international law and the morals of humanity.
The  resolution  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict 
is  essential  for  peace  and  stability  throughout  the 
Middle East. It is also essential to enable us to address 
some  of  the  drivers  of  extremism  and  terrorism.  It  is 
that  conflict  that  has  contributed  most  significantly 
to  the  anger  and  frustration  in  the  Arab  and  the 
Islamic  world.  The  continued  spread  of  illegal  Israeli 
settlements on Palestinian lands, the blockade of Gaza, 
the provocations around the holy Al-Aqsa Mosque and 
the continued imprisonment of Palestinians are all real 
and  present  obstacles  to  a  two-State  solution.  Those 
actions,  along  with  the  recent  proclamations  from 
Israel  that  a  two-State  solution  no  longer  needs  to  be 
pursued, reflect a willful defiance of the international 
consensus that the only viable option for durable peace 
lies  in  such  a  solution.  They  are  also  a  testimony  to 
the fact that the occupying Power is being emboldened 
by  the  lack  of  resolute  action  on  the  part  of  the 
international community.
The  5.2  million  Palestinian  refugees  who  were 
forcibly displaced from their homes nearly 70 years ago 
and denied their inalienable right to return represent a 
travesty  of  justice  and  morality.  Their  right  to  return 
is pivotal to the vision of a peaceful and stable Middle 
East.  The  expropriation  of  Palestinian  lands  and  the 
continued expansion of illegal settlements in occupied 
territories  are  other  egregious  Israeli  inequities  that 
constitute total defiance of its international obligations.
the  Israeli 
parliament  aims  at  providing  a  veneer  of  legality 
to 
land-grab.  The  demolition  of 
Palestinian  homes  and  expulsion  of  Palestinians  from 
their properties further compound the suffering of the 
people.  The  collective  punishment  meted  out  through 
the blockade of Gaza, now in its ninth year, continues to 
wreak havoc on the lives of the residents of the enclave. 
It  also  seriously  impedes  the  ability  of  the  United 
Nations  and  other  humanitarian  agencies  to  deliver 
much-needed  support  to  embattled  communities  as 
legalization  bill 
in 
The  so-called 
that  shameless 
2/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
A/71/PV.50
they try to rebuild shattered lives after the devastation 
caused by the Israeli aggression in 2014.
to the future of the next generation of Palestinians but 
to international peace and international security.
Through 
resolution  2535 
Through all this, the United Nations has remained 
seized  of  the  Palestinian  question.  Countless  United 
Nations resolutions testify to the political and diplomatic 
capital  spent  by  the  international  community  on  the 
Palestinian cause. And yet, none of it has been able to 
transform  the  grim  reality  of  daily  existence  for  the 
Palestinian people. 
its 
(XXIV)  B  of 
10  December  1969,  the  General  Assembly  expressed 
grave  concern  at  the  denial  of  basic  rights  to  the 
Palestinians  through  collective  punishment,  arbitrary 
detention,  curfews,  the  destruction  of  homes  and 
property, deportation and other repressive acts. Almost 
half a century later, sadly, the draft resolution that we 
will adopt tomorrow will speak to the same trials and 
tribulations. That lack of progress is an indictment not 
of the commitment of the many countries, including my 
own,  that  have  steadfastly  supported  the  Palestinian 
cause,  but  of  the  few  that  have  the  capacity  to  bring 
about  material  change  but  lack  the  will  to  do  so. 
Renewed  demands  for  the  recognition  of  the  State  of 
Palestine are a clarion call that must be heeded.
The inaction of the Security Council has not only 
undermined its own credibility, but has also weakened 
the ideals that the Organization espouses — the ideals 
of  human  dignity,  of  peaceful  coexistence  based  on 
the  sovereign  equality  of  all  nations,  and  of  the  right 
to  self-determination  of  all  peoples.  The  resumption 
of  negotiations 
forward.  The 
Security Council should live up to its obligations and 
responsibilities  and  summon  the  political  courage 
and  vision  to  adopt  a  resolution  with  parameters  and 
timelines to end the occupation. However, talks should 
be meaningful and results-oriented and not a means for 
providing  space  for  Israel  to  further  shrink  prospects 
for a contiguous State of Palestine.
the  only  way 
is 
Another dimension of conflict in the Middle East is 
the Israeli occupation of the Syrian Golan. The Israeli 
settlement  policy  and  illegal  practices  of  controlling 
resources  and  changing  the  demographic  composition 
and  legal  status  of  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  is  a 
violation  and  in  blatant  disregard  of  United  Nations 
resolutions.  Lasting  and  sustainable  peace  in  the 
Middle East requires bold decisions. Withdrawal of the 
occupation forces from all Arab lands, including from 
Lebanon and the Syrian Golan Heights, is vital not only 
In conclusion, let me reiterate Pakistan’s unwavering 
solidarity  with  the  people  of  Palestine,  which  has 
been  consistently  manifested  by  its  support  over  the 
decades.  We  call  for  an  end  to  the  constant  delays 
and  the  realization  of  the  legitimate  and  inalienable 
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people,  which  is  an  essential 
prerequisite  to  sustainable  peace  in  the  Middle  East. 
The construction of an architecture of global stability 
and prosperity at this seminal juncture of world history 
cannot be built on injustice and denial of the rights of 
the Palestinian people.
Mr.  Al  Harthy  (Oman)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf of the Sultanate of Oman, I would like to thank 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening 
this special meeting to consider the Palestinian question 
and the situation in the Middle East. I would also like 
to thank the representative of Senegal for his statement 
on  behalf  of  the  President  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People  (see  A/71/PV.49).  We  commend  him  for  the 
activities of the Committee.
The Israeli forces’ illegal expansionist practices in 
the West Bank and East Jerusalem and their breach of 
international law and norms through settlement activity 
and  the  building  of  a  separation  wall  are  flagrant 
violations  of  the  human  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people  living  in  the  occupied  territories,  as  well  as 
of  the  provisions  of  international  humanitarian  and 
human  rights  law.  My  country  therefore  calls  on  the 
international  community,  in  particular  the  Security 
Council, to fulfil its responsibility and compel Israel, 
the  occupying  Power,  to  cease  these  practices  and 
policies and its attempts to alter the demography on the 
ground in Palestine.
We  call  on  Israel  to  return  to  negotiations  to  end 
the occupation of the Palestinian territories and build 
the State of Palestine with East Jerusalem as its capital, 
pursuant  to  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions 
and the Arab Peace Initiative. We also call on Israel to 
withdraw from the Syrian Golan and other areas under 
Israeli occupation in south Lebanon.
My country wishes to stress that peace and stability 
can be achieved only through dialogue and negotiations. 
Our position was succinctly set forth in the statement 
of my country’s Minister for Foreign Affairs during the 
general debate at the start of the Assemb;y’s seventy-
16-40731
3/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
first  session  (see  A/71/PV.22).  We  call  for  serious 
negotiations that would preserve the rights of all parties 
to live within secure borders on the basis of two States, 
Israel and Palestine. We also call upon the international 
community to support all efforts aimed at achieving a 
noble goal that is shared by all peace-loving countries.
Mr.  Sevilla  Borja  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Fidel Castro — the eternal leader of the Cuban people, 
of  the  Latin  American  people  and  of  the  peoples  in 
the world who are seeking development, who has just 
entered  into  the  pantheon  of  immortality  —  spoke  a 
great truth in this very Hall in 1979: “the Palestinian 
question is the very crux of the problem of the Middle 
East” (A/34/PV.31, para. 22). In fact, if the international 
community  had  complied  with  General  Assembly 
resolution  181  (II),  of  29  November  1947  —  which, 
just  as  it  created  the  State  of  Israel,  should  also  have 
established the independent State of Palestine and done 
justice to the Palestinian people — the world would not 
have had to lament the indescribable tragedies that they 
have  experienced  and  are  living  today  in  the  Middle 
East region.
After  70  years,  the  Palestinian  people  are  still 
fighting for the right to self-determination, to exist as 
a nation and to establish a State, like all the rest of the 
peoples  of  the  Earth.  These  rights are  theirs  not  only 
because of the international community’s recognition, 
in  resolution  3236  (XXIX),  adopted  in  1974,  but  also 
because  of  the  millennial  history  that  precedes  this 
Palestinian population, descendants of the Canaanites 
and Philistines, more than 5,000 years ago.
On  the  occasion  of  the  annual  observation  of  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People, it is a priority to recall that after the 1948 war 
between the new State of Israel and the neighbouring 
Arab States, more than half of the native Palestinians 
were obliged to flee or were expelled from their land. By 
1949, there were already 725,000 Palestinian refugees. 
Following the war of 1967, the Palestinian exodus grew, 
with 500,000 additional refugees. 
Seventy years later, the increase in the number of 
displaced  persons  is  dramatic  and  inhumane.  There 
are  5.3  million  Palestinian  refugees  located  primarily 
in the Near East, who represent more than 40 per cent 
of  the  world’s  long-term  refugees.  That  percentage 
demonstrates a permanent violation of rights in which 
the people survive, a people whose situation is steadily 
deteriorating and who are being deprived even of their 
right to humanitarian assistance.
the 
This  Organization  has  heard 
testimonies 
of  senior  officials  of  United  Nations  bodies  on 
the  difficulties  that  they  are  having  in  providing 
humanitarian  assistance  to  the  Palestinian  refugees 
and  on  the  obstructions  by  the  Government  of  Israel 
to  the  humanitarian  aid  agencies  on  the  ground. 
Similar allegations have been received by the Security 
Council  with  respect  to  other  Governments  that  are 
also obstructing the work organized through numerous 
Council  resolutions  for  humanitarian  assistance  in 
Syria, the Sudan, South Sudan and Yemen.
My delegation reiterates once again that the lack of 
effective action by the Security Council, the indifference 
of  the  Powers  directly  involved  and  the  obstinacy  of 
extremist sectors in the State of Israel, encouraged by 
outside support, have generated unilateral policies that, 
as in the case of the Gaza Strip blockade, suffocate its 
people, stifle its economy and impede reconstruction. 
Meanwhile,  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory, 
thre  is  new  legislation  that  contains  discriminatory, 
anti-democratic  provisions  that  could  pose  a  serious 
threat  to  the  human  rights  of  Palestinian  citizens 
in  Israel  and  Palestinians  who  live  in  the  territory 
occupied in 1967. Such laws and draft laws seek, inter 
alia,  to  strip  Arab  citizens  of  their  land  and  exclude 
them from it, regulate their citizenship, undermine the 
ability of Arab citizens of Israel and their parliamentary 
representatives  to  take  part  in  the  political  life  of  the 
country,  penalize  political  expression  or  acts  that 
challenge  the  Jewish  or  Zionist  character  of  the  State 
and give priority to Jewish citizens when State resources 
are being allocated. According to a recent report of the 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, 
presented to the Special Committee on the Exercise of 
the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  the 
occupation imposes high costs on the economy of the 
occupied Palestinian territory.
The Security Council cannot continue to shirk its 
responsibility  or  ignore  the  support  of  the  majority 
of  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  for  the 
Palestinian cause. The Security Council must shoulder 
its responsibility and overcome its silence and paralysis 
on  the  issue.  A  serious  historic  responsibility  falls  to 
it,  particularly  to  some  of  its  permanent  members.  A 
definitive  response  that  rejects  the  policy  of  building 
settlements in the occupied Palestinian territory, which 
4/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
A/71/PV.50
is  threatening  the  two-State  solution,  as  outlined  by 
the Quartet in its July 2016 report, is the only path to 
lasting  peace.  It  takes  into  account  Israel’s  security 
needs  and  Palestinian  aspirations  of  sovereignty  and 
independence and could end the occupation that began 
in 1967.
Once again, we urge Israel — a State member of the 
international community that was born out of a decision 
by this Organization — to respect international law and 
the opinion of the community of nations, which, year 
after year, calls for an end to the policy of expansion 
and  the  building  of  settlements.  As  our  delegation 
has  previously  stated,  the  question  of  Palestine  is  an 
eminently  political  conflict  that  requires  a  political 
solution.  Its  basis  lies  in  the  right  of  the  Palestinian 
people to self-determination and depends on an overall 
solution to the problem of the Middle East. The region 
has  already  been  the  battleground  for  four  wars  and, 
now more than ever, the present conflict is one of the 
most serious threats to international peace and security.
The bilateral formula for the quest for peace is direct 
negotiations  between  Israelis  and  Palestinians.  Such 
negotiations have been supported by the international 
community but regrettably have not yielded any results 
or progress. Seventy years of waiting is quite enough. 
Unfortunately,  we  believe  that  this  path  has  been 
exhausted. That is why our delegation values and voices 
its  support  for  the  various  recent  initiatives  that  have 
emerged recently to promote the peace process between 
Israel and Palestine, such as the French and Egyptian 
initiative, and Russia’s more recent proposal to host a 
meeting of Israeli and Palestinian leaders.
This legally organized community has a duty and a 
debt to return the rights of the Palestinian people to them 
and finalize the establishment of an independent State 
of Palestine as a full Member of the United Nations, as 
was established in the 1947 partition plan (see resolution 
181 (II)). My delegation would like to firmly reiterate 
once again the support of the Government and people 
of  Ecuador  for  the  legitimate  right  of  the  Palestinian 
people to establish an independent State with the1967 
borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital. Next year, 
2017, should be the year the foreign occupation of the 
Palestinian territory comes to an end.
I will conclude with another quotation from Fidel 
Castro. He spoke these words in the General Assembly 
Hall — at this very rostrum — in 1979, as he made a 
statement on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned 
Countries:
“From the bottom of our heart, we repudiated 
the  merciless  persecution  and  genocide  that  the 
Nazis once visited on the Jews, but there is nothing 
in recent history that parallels it more closely than 
the  dispossession,  persecution  and  genocide  that 
imperialism  and  Zionism  are  currently  practicing 
against  the  Palestinian  people.  Pushed  off  their 
land,  expelled  from  their  own  country,  scattered 
throughout the world, persecuted and murdered, the 
heroic Palestinians are a vivid example of sacrifice 
and patriotism, living symbols of the most terrible 
crime of our era” (A/34/PV.31, para. 24).
Mr.  Thammavongsa  (Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic):  As  of  today,  the  question  of  Palestine  has 
been on the agenda of the United Nations for more than 
six  decades,  and  it  is  unfortunate  that  the  Palestinian 
people still have no glimmer of hope that their right to 
self-determination that will lead to the establishment of 
an independent State of Palestine will be realized. It is 
therefore time for the international community to take 
bold steps to create favourable conditions for the return 
by all parties concerned to dialogue and negotiations in 
order to resolve this protracted conflict and realize the 
two-State solution so that Palestine and Israel can live 
side by side in peace.
We  are  concerned  about  the  dire  humanitarian 
situation in the Gaza Strip following the war in 2014. 
At  their  current  rate,  efforts  to  address  humanitarian 
needs  and  rebuild  homes  to  improve  the  livelihoods 
of tens of thousands of Palestinian people affected by 
the  war  are  insufficient  due  to  the  blockade,  severe 
import restrictions and unfulfilled donor pledges. My 
delegation therefore calls for the lifting of the blockade 
and  urges  the  international  community  to  provide 
support  and  aid  to  Palestine  so  that  the  humanitarian 
assistance and reconstruction process can be expedited. 
In  addition,  the  continued  illegal  settlement  activities 
and  destruction  of  properties,  homes  and  economic 
institutions  in  the  occupied  territory  have  led  to  the 
further deterioration of the already grave socioeconomic 
situation that the Palestinian people are facing.
This  constitutes  a  breach  of  international  law, 
including  international  humanitarian  law  and  human 
rights  law,  and  acts  as  an  impediment  to  the  peace 
process  and  opportunities  for  negotiations.  Such 
acts  should  therefore  be  stopped  in  order  to  create  a 
16-40731
5/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
conducive  environment  for  the  parties  concerned  to 
return to the negotiating table and find a just and lasting 
solution to the long-overdue question of Palestine. This 
solution  must  be  based  on  United  Nations  resolutions 
and the Quartet road map, which envisage a sovereign, 
independent  and  viable  State  of  Palestine  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital, living side by side in peace with 
the  State  of  Israel,  within  secure  and  internationally 
recognized borders.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  has  long 
recognized the State of Palestine and wishes to reaffirm 
its  consistent  support  for  the  Palestinian  people  in 
attaining their long-delayed goal of a viable, peaceful 
and prosperous State of Palestine that is a full-fledged 
Member  of  the  United  Nations.  We  welcome  other 
countries’ decisions to recognize the State of Palestine 
and hope that more will do so in future. We believe that 
the more recognition there is for the State of Palestine, 
the more positive the contribution will be to expediting 
a peaceful solution to this long-overdue issue.
While waiting to see the full-fledged, independent 
State of Palestine, we take this opportunity to commend 
the  role  and  work  of  the  United  Nations  agencies, 
especially the United Nations Relief and Works Agency 
for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East,  for  their 
support  and  assistance  to  the  millions  of  Palestinian 
people in need during all these year,s despite multiple 
difficulties.  We  also  wish  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People every success in its noble endeavours to achieve 
a just, peaceful, comprehensive and lasting solution to 
the question of Palestine.
Mr. Al Musharakh (United Arab Emirates) (spoke 
in  Arabic):  At  the  outset,  my  delegation  and  I  would 
like to extend our sincere condolences to the people and 
the  Government  of  Cuba  at  the  passing  of  the  former 
President, His Excellency Mr. Fidel Castro.
a sovereign and independent State such as those other 
peoples of the world enjoy.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  expresses  its  concern 
with  regard  to  the  deteriorating  humanitarian  and 
security and social situation in the occupied Palestinian 
territory as well as to the escalation of violence and the 
absence of a solution that would uphold the Palestinians’ 
inalienable  rights,  despite  all  the  resolutions  of  and 
efforts  by  the  United  Nations,  its  agencies  and  other 
regional and international bodies to solve the Palestinian 
question.  The  tragedy  of  the  Palestinian  people  has 
continued  for  70  years.  The  United  Arab  Emirates 
believes that this international impotence will persist as 
long as Israel continues with its illegitimate and illegal 
practices and its aggressive policies designed to oppress 
the Palestinian people. Israel continues to destroy and 
demolish  Palestinian  property,  confiscate  Palestinian 
lands  and  forcibly  displace  Palestinians,  while  using 
excessive force against women and children.
In Gaza, Israel continues its inhumane embargo and 
blockade which has led to a deteriorating humanitarian 
situation  and  to  rising  unemployment.  Israel  persists 
in  its  expanding  its  settlements,  which  is  considered 
illegal and prohibited under international humanitarian 
law,  having  thus  disregarded  all  international  calls  to 
cease  these  activities.  These  activities  undermine  the 
two-State  solution  and  constitute  an  obstacle  to  the 
peace process in the Middle East.
In the light of this situation, settlers continue their 
violence  against  the  Palestinian  people,  while  Israel 
persists  in  its  exploitation  of  the  natural  resources 
of  occupied  Arab  territories,  including  the  Syrian 
Golan.  Israel  continues  to  take  illegal  measures  to 
change  the  character  of  Jerusalem.  It  persists  in  its 
systematic  attacks  against  Christian  and  Islamic  holy 
sites,  including  the  Al-Aqsa  Mosque,  in  violation  of 
international treaties.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  the  words  of 
His  Highness  Sheikh  Khalifa  Bin  Zayed  Al  Nahyan, 
President  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  in  his  letter 
addressed to the Chair of the Committee on the Exercise 
of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian people on 
the occasion of the International Day of Solidarity with 
the  Palestinian  People.  In  that  letter,  His  Highness 
addressed the support of the United Arab Emirates for 
the  people  and  the  Government  of  Palestine  as  they 
strive to achieve their legitimate aspirations to establish 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  strongly  condemns 
all  Israeli  violations  and  acts  of  oppression  that  run 
counter to international human rights and humanitarian 
law and the fourth Geneva Convention of 1949. We call 
on  Israel  to  cease  those  violations  and  demonstrate 
genuine  political  will  towards  achieving  a  true  peace 
in  the  region.  We  denounce  the  continued  Israeli 
occupation of Palestinian territories, as it threatens the 
stability and security of the region and plays into the 
hands of terrorist and extremist groups.
6/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
A/71/PV.50
It is high time for the international community to 
fulfil  its  legal,  political  and  material  responsibilities 
and  compel  Israel  to  immediately  cease  all  its  illegal 
practices.  We  call  on  the  international  community, 
the Quartet and the Security Council to act decisively 
and  immediately,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations and the provisions of international 
law,  to  end  the  suffering  of  the  Palestinian  people, 
take  all  necessary  measures  to  salvage  the  two-State 
solution  and  end  the  Israeli  occupation  of  all  Arab 
territories,  including  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan.  We 
stress the need for the establishment of an independent 
Palestinian  State  along  the  borders  of  4  June  1967, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital, in accordance with 
international resolutions, the Arab Peace Initiative and 
the Madrid Principles.
Mr.  Alhakim  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, my delegation and I would like to express our 
sincere condolences to the people and the Government 
of  Cuba  at  the  passing  of  the  former  President,  His 
Excellency Mr. Fidel Castro.
Today,  on  behalf  of  the  President  of  Iraq,  I 
would  like  to  deliver  this  statement  addressed  to  the 
Palestinian people:
“The International Day of Solidarity with the 
Palestinian  People  reflects  and  renews  the  global 
and  ongoing  responsibility  of  the  international 
community to address the Palestinian question as 
well as its commitment to upholding the Palestinian 
people’s legitimate rights in their just struggle for 
self-determination.  It  also  reflects  the  need  to 
end  the  unjust  Israeli  occupation  of  Palestinian 
territory  so  that  Palestinians  can  establish  their 
own  independent  State,  as  other  peoples  of  the 
world have done.
the  question  of  Palestine  and 
“The  Republic  of  Iraq  has  long  supported 
addressing 
its 
people’s  struggle  to  see  their  legitimate  rights 
fulfilled.  We  are  extremely  concerned  at  the 
humanitarian  suffering  of  the  Palestinian  people 
as  a  result  of  Israel’s  continued  disregard  for 
international resolutions and persistent, aggressive 
attacks  on  the  Gaza  Strip,  in  particular,  resulting 
in  disastrous  consequences  and  the  death  and 
injury of hundreds of civilians, including women, 
children  and  the  elderly.  Those  attacks  have  also 
destroyed  infrastructure,  schools  —  including 
schools administered by the United Nations Relief 
and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the 
Near East — and holy places.
“Israel also continues to play out its expansionist 
policy  by  building  settlements  in  the  heart  of 
Palestinian  cities  in  the  West  Bank,  including  in 
East Jerusalem. Those practices have perpetuated 
the  suffering  of  the  Palestinian  people,  who  have 
lost  all  hope  of  seeing  the  establishment  of  a 
comprehensive and just peace, given the continued 
Israeli  occupation  of  Palestinian  territories  since 
1967 and despite the passing of 24 years since the 
first  round  of  negotiations  between  Israelis  and 
Palestinians was undertaken.
“On this International Day, the Republic of Iraq 
stresses that a comprehensive and just solution to 
the Palestinian question is possible only through the 
establishment of an independent State of Palestine, 
a fully fledged State, along the lines of the 4 June 
1967  borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
in  accordance  with  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  the 
two-State  solution  and  international  resolutions, 
including the relevant United Nations resolutions.
“We  call  on  those  countries  that  have  yet  to 
recognize the State of Palestine, including European 
countries, to recognize the State of Palestine, as the 
Kingdom of Sweden has done. We call on them to 
support  the  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people 
to  realize  their  legitimate  rights,  given  that  such 
recognition would contribute to peace, security and 
stability in the Middle East.
“The  Republic  of  Iraq  strongly  condemns 
all  Israeli  attacks  on  Palestinian  territory.  We 
also  express  our  full  support  for  the  Palestinian 
Authority  and  our  solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
people.  We  call  on  Arab  countries  and 
the 
international  community  to  support  the  efforts  of 
the Palestinian National Authority in combating the 
negative  consequences  of  the  Israeli  occupation, 
especially  at  the  socioeconomic  level,  in  the 
occupied  territories  and  in  Jerusalem.  We  call  on 
them to work together to strengthen national unity 
and create a united front, with a view to defending 
the Palestinians’ legitimate rights.”
Mr. Elshandawily (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): The 
Israeli  occupation  of  Palestine  is  now  in  its  fiftieth 
year. Occupation is by definition temporary, but when 
an  occupation,  such  as  that  of  Palestine  by  Israel,  is 
moving steadily towards semi-permanent status, it fuels 
16-40731
7/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
the continuation of a conflict that is now the oldest and 
most dangerous in the Middle East. It erodes prospects 
for coexistence and mutual respect. As described by the 
Secretary-General, it has turned the region into a fertile 
ground for hatred and extremism.
the  Palestinian  people’s 
The  international  community  has  continuously 
advocated  for  a  solution  to  the  question  of  Palestine 
that  upholds 
legitimate 
right  to  self-determination  and  the  aspirations  of  the 
Palestinian and Israeli peoples to live in peace as equals 
in two independent States, side by side, on the basis of 
international resolutions, within the borders of 4 June 
1967. However, today, 23 years after the Oslo Accords, 
instead of witnessing the birth of a sovereign Palestinian 
State in accordance with resolutions and international 
legitimacy,  we  are  witnessing  the  establishment  of  a 
cozy State of illegal settlements — a cozy State inhabited 
by more than half a million settlers — expanding over 
Palestinian territories and enjoying the official support 
of  the  occupying  Power.  That  occupying  Power  has 
spared  no  effort  over  the  past  10  years  to  confiscate 
land,  demolish  homes  and  displace  Palestinians,  and 
has been supported by the inaction of the international 
community  and  the  passive  stances  of  influential 
international Powers that have the ability to stop such 
illegal actions.
Maintaining the status quo represents a pulling back 
from the objectives of the United Nations. It encourages 
further deterioration on the ground, the consequences 
of which are hard to predict. I would like to stress here 
that it is a false notion that what we are doing here at the 
United Nations is a foregone conclusion. Over a period 
of years, our meetings in the General Assembly on this 
agenda item and the resolutions we have adopted have 
been  the  only  way  to  officially  document  Palestinian 
rights  and  duties  within  the  United  Nations,  which 
should remain, with regard to any political accounting, 
the legal protector of the right of Palestinians to their 
independent  State  within  the  borders  of  June  1967 
and  with  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  Furthermore,  our 
meetings in the General Assembly and our adoption of 
such  resolutions  are  testimony  to  the  fact  that  Arabs 
and Palestinians should choose the path of peace.
I  would  therefore  like  to  thank  all  those  who 
continue to support international legitimacy by voting in 
favour of United Nations resolutions and ascribe blame 
to  all  those  that  voted  against  them.  I  would  ask  the 
latter group the following question: If they are against 
the principle of maintaining Palestinian rights through 
international,  United  Nations  resolutions,  what  is  the 
best  way  to  maintain,  restore  and  protect  their  rights 
from  erosion  caused  by  the  policy  of  maintaining  the 
status quo? It is clear that those parties are responsible 
for  the  delay  in  resolving  the  question  of  Palestine. 
Indeed,  it  is  the  lack  of  will  of  major  international 
Powers that is impeding a solution. Nevertheless, this 
situation should not make us forget the central role of 
the United Nations and its bodies, nor should it cause 
us to deviate from the path chartered by international 
legitimacy and the terms of references.
In  a  Arria  Formula  meeting  on  14  July  2016, 
members  of  the  Security  Council  heard  statements 
from  people  all  over  the  world,  including  from  the 
United States, Belgium and Israel itself. It was stressed 
once again at that meeting that the Israeli settlements 
were not just an obstacle to peace and to the two-State 
solution, but rather the core and crux of the crisis. The 
Palestinian cause is mainly the issue of a land that has 
been forcibly occupied. It is the cause of a people that 
has been stripped of its right to live in dignity.
Also  highlighted  at  that  meeting  was  something 
worth  recognizing  and  valuing,  namely,  the  Israeli 
voices  calling  for  peace.  Those  voices  are  aware  that 
it  is  impossible  for  the  occupation  to  continue,  or  for 
coexistence  to  be  viable,  in  the  light  of  attempts  to 
impose a status quo. It is impossible to achieve the goal 
of  peace  when  laws  are  applied  in  a  discriminatory 
manner. Those voices spoke out against the imposition 
of a policy of maintaining the status quo and abandoning 
the two-State solution. They are the voices of those who 
know that a people cannot live at the expense of another 
people. Thanks to what we heard, I am fully confident 
that the Israeli call within the United Nations for peace 
is an expression of the genuine desire of a significant, 
if not the largest, segment of the Israeli people. We, as 
Egyptians  and  Arabs,  are  resolved  to  cooperate  with 
that segment of the Israeli population and will continue 
to  work  towards  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace  in 
the region.
to 
resume  negotiations  between 
Egypt  remains  committed  to  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative and to encouraging efforts by the international 
community 
the 
Palestinians and the Israelis, particularly the efforts by 
France and Russia. Egypt is resolved to act bilaterally 
within a multilateral framework to enforce its vision for 
peace in the region. That vision, which was introduced 
37  years  ago  at  the  conclusion  of  the  peace  treaty 
between Egypt and Israel, can still be implemented if 
8/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
A/71/PV.50
we garner the necessary international will and if Israel 
opts for a just, comprehensive peace for itself and other 
countries of the region.
Ms.  Danish  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
On  behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi 
Arabia, I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
the President for making it possible for us to take part in 
today’s discussion of the Palestinian question. We will 
always support the legitimate claim of our brothers, the 
Palestinian people, to recover their inalienable rights.
On  this  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  People,  we  recall  the  tragedy  that  has 
befallen them and caused their long-standing suffering. 
Despite the fact that the Palestinian question is the crux 
of  the  Middle  East  conflict  and  that  there  have  been 
many initiatives — including the Arab Peace Initiative, 
which  my  country  launched  15  years  ago  —  the 
Palestinian people remain deprived of their right to live 
in dignity and to secure their freedom and right to self-
determination.
Israel  continues  to  be  in  breach  of  international 
law, pursues illegitimate and illegal policies, especially 
its  settlement  activities,  violates  the  sanctity  of  holy 
sites  and  blocks  peace  efforts.  We  therefore  call  on 
the  international  community  to  dissuade  Israel  from 
carrying out such coercive policies, which defy the will 
of the international community and hinder efforts aimed 
at reaching a successful conclusion to negotiations.
Ms. Young (Belize), Vice-President, took the Chair.
My  country  is  dedicated  to  a  lasting  peace.  The 
success of the peace process depends upon the complete 
and  final  withdrawal  of  Israel  from  the  Palestinian 
territories, the fulfilment of Palestinian people’s right 
to  self-determination  and  the  establishment  of  an 
independent  State  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital. 
We  should  put  an  end  to  the  tragedy  endured  by  the 
Palestinian people. My country supports the efforts by 
the  Palestinian  Authority,  under  President  Mahmoud 
Abbas,  as  well  as  international  efforts  to  protect  the 
Palestinian  people,  and  especially  to  preserve  the 
Islamic and Arab character of Jerusalem.
Mr. Al-Thani (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): I would like 
to thank the President for convening today’s meeting, 
and the Chair of the Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  for  the 
statement delivered on his behalf (see A/71/PV.49). We 
are also grateful to the Committee itself for its efforts. 
We  take  this  opportunity  to  affirm  the  indivisibility 
of  Palestinian  rights  and  to  welcome  the  special 
information  programme  on  the  question  of  Palestine 
sponsored by the Department of Public Information.
The Middle East faces many challenges as a result 
of  the  increasing  number  of  crises  and  conflicts  in 
the  region.  Those  crises  and  conflicts  are  negatively 
affecting the people of the region and are undermining 
their fundamental rights, well-being and development, 
with disastrous effects across the world. Stability and 
peace  must  therefore  be  achieved  in  the  region  by 
addressing the root causes of the crises, particularly the 
unsuccessful efforts to counter the grave violations of 
international law and resolutions and the failure to ensure 
equity and justice — a problem that must be addressed 
if we are to achieve a lasting, comprehensive peace by 
ending the Israeli occupation of Arab territories.
The  seven  decades  of  occupation  have  proved 
that  there  can  be  no  peace  or  stability  in  the  region 
by  imposing  a  fait  accompli.  We  therefore  welcome 
the initiative of the Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People to proclaim 
the  year  2017  as  the  International  Year  to  End  Israeli 
Occupation of Palestine, including East Jerusalem. The 
initiative  is  based  on  realistic  and  legal  grounds  that 
would defuse the tension between the two parties. 
We  reaffirm  our  condemnation  of  all  practices 
undertaken  by  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  against 
holy  sites,  Islamic  and  Christian,  in  Jerusalem,  as 
well as attempts to change the situation at the Al-Aqsa 
Mosque and to impose restrictions on Muslims entering 
that  site.  We  welcome  the  decision  of  the  UNESCO 
Executive  Board  on  occupied  Palestine.  in  October,  
and  the  separate  decision  of  the  World  Heritage 
Committee, which both proclaim Al-Ḥaram Al-Sharif 
to be an integral part of a world cultural heritage site 
with historic value that Israel is obligated to protect.
the 
General Assembly resolutions in that regard reflect 
the  commitment  of 
international  community 
to  compel  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  to  cease 
its  unilateral  activities  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory, including East Jerusalem, that seek to change 
the  demographic  character  of  the  city.  All  of  those 
resolutions  stress  the  illegality  of  Israeli  practices 
that  seek  to  impose  its  laws  and  legislation  on  East 
Jerusalem. The resolutions also confirm the invalidity 
of the Israeli occupation of the Syrian Golan and call on 
Israel to fully withdraw to the 1967 borders.
16-40731
9/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
It is time to reach a just, comprehensive and lasting 
solution  based  on  the  United  Nations  resolutions,  the 
Madrid terms of reference and the two-State solution, 
which seeks to create two States, Israel and Palestine, 
living side by side in peace and within the recognized 
and secure 1967 borders. Israel must therefore withdraw 
from land occupied by Palestinians in 1967 and ensure 
the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people,  particularly  their 
right  to  self-determination  and  to  the  establishment 
of  their  own  independent  State,  while  reaching  a  just 
solution  to  the  refugee  crisis,  pursuant  to  resolution 
194 (III), of 11 December 1948. Negotiations must be 
resumed,  in  keeping  with  the  relevant  mandates  and 
following a clear timetable, so as to bring about a just, 
comprehensive and lasting solution.
The  escalating  violence  on  the  ground  is  the 
result  of  the  illegal  Israeli  occupation,  the  use  of 
excessive force against the Palestinians and the crimes 
committed by Israeli settlers against Palestinians with 
full  impunity.  We  should  therefore  not  be  surprised 
that  Palestinians  are  protesting  all  those  measures, 
as they violate their rights and diminish any prospect 
of  the  establishment  of  their  own  independent  State. 
Accordingly, the international community must provide 
international  protection  for  the  Palestinian  people 
while  implementing  and  enforcing  Security  Council 
resolutions, in particular resolutions 605 (1987) and 904 
(1994), on the applicability to the occupied Palestinian 
territories  of  the  Geneva  Convention  relative  to  the 
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War.
The  continued,  unjust  blockade  of  the  Gaza 
Strip,  which  denies  the  people  of  Gaza  their  basic 
necessities,  together  with  the  restrictions  imposed 
on  the  entry  of  goods  and  services  to  the  Strip,  has 
had  disastrous  humanitarian  effects  and  impedes  the 
peace  process.  Qatar  is  aware  of  the  need  to  improve 
the humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip. We will 
therefore continue our humanitarian efforts and work to 
assist in the reconstruction of the Strip. In that respect, 
Qatar  recently  inaugurated  schools  in  the  Gaza  Strip 
named  for  His  Highness  Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad 
Al-Thani,  and  we  will  continue  our  efforts  towards 
Palestinian reconciliation.
community 
is 
The 
international 
currently 
focused  on  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs).  However,  the  policies  imposed  by  the 
occupying Power impede the ability of the Palestinian 
people to achieve the SDGs. According to a report of the 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, 
the Palestinian economy is suffering as a result of the 
Israeli  occupation.  There  should  be  a  comprehensive, 
lasting  and  evidence-based  mechanism  within  the 
United  Nations  system  to  determine  the  amount  of 
those economic losses.
In  conclusion,  the  State  of  Qatar  renews  its  full 
support  for  the  Palestinian  people  and  for  all  efforts 
aimed  at  achieving  a  lasting,  comprehensive  and  just 
peace in the Middle East.
Mr.  Wu  Haitao  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
question of Palestine, which is at the core of the situation 
in  the  Middle  East,  remains  an  issue  of  fundamental 
importance  for  peace  in  the  region.  The  international 
community should have a greater sense of urgency in 
resolving the Palestinian question, and concrete efforts 
should be made to promote a just and complete solution 
to  the  issue.  Such  a  solution  is  in  the  interests  of  the 
peoples of the Middle East, including Palestinians, and 
can help promote peace and stability in the world.
The Palestinian-Israeli peace talks are now deeply 
mired in an impasse, even as violent conflicts continue. 
The  humanitarian  situation  is  dire.  The  international 
community  must  not  just  let  the  Palestinian  people 
suffer, nor should it allow the Middle East peace process 
to stall. Concerted efforts should be made to resolve the 
Palestinian question. China calls upon the international 
community to make efforts in the following ways.
First, it should adhere to the path leading towards 
both  the  establishment  of  an  independent  Palestinian 
State  and 
the  peaceful  coexistence  of  Palestine 
and  Israel.  That  should  be  done  on  the  basis  of  the 
principle of land for peace, the two-State solution, the 
Arab Peace Initiative and the relevant United Nations 
resolutions.  The 
international  community  should 
promote  the  early  resumption  of  the  peace  talks  for 
real, concrete outcomes.
Secondly, the international community should urge 
Palestine and Israel to exercise restraint and put an end to 
violent conflicts. Israel should demonstrate its sincerity 
first  by  ceasing  the  construction  of  settlements  and 
the demolition of Palestinian homes in order to create 
conditions  for  the  resumption  of  peace  talks.  In  the 
meantime,  attention  should  be  given  to  the  legitimate 
security concerns of the countries of the region.
Thirdly, the international community should provide 
a guarantee for the Middle East peace process. It should 
explore a broader scope for peacebuilding efforts and 
10/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
A/71/PV.50
develop  more  effective  peace-promoting  mechanisms 
for  issues  relating  to  the  Middle  East.  The  General 
Assembly  should  urge  the  relevant  Member  States  to 
concretely  implement  Assembly  resolutions  regarding 
the Palestinian question. The Security Council should 
take swift action and actively respond to the legitimate 
concerns of Palestine and the Arab States.
Fourthly, the international community should press 
ahead  with  the  economic  reconstruction  of  Palestine 
and strengthen economic aid and support for it, in order 
to alleviate its humanitarian situation.
China  is  a  staunch  supporter  of  the  just  cause  of 
the Palestinian people. At the meeting commemorating 
the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian 
People yesterday (see A/AC.183/PV.380), President Xi 
Jinping sent a message that expressed China’s sympathy 
and  support  for  the  Palestinian  people.  President  Xi 
Jinping  emphasized  the  fact  that  China  supports  the 
establishment of an independent Palestinian State with 
full sovereignty on the basis of pre-1967 borders, with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  as  well  as  Palestine’s 
increased  participation  in  international  affairs  in  its 
capacity  as  a  State.  As  a  permanent  member  of  the 
Security  Council,  China  is  ready  to  work  with  the 
international community towards the early realization 
of  a  comprehensive,  just  and  lasting  peace  in  the 
Middle East.
At  present,  the  Middle  East  is  still  experiencing 
wars  and  conflicts  caused  by  intertwined  hotspot 
issues  and  the  spread  of  terrorism.  The  international 
community should work together for peace and stability 
in the region, which is in the interests of all parties.
First,  the  international  community  should  respect 
the  rights  of  the  countries  and  peoples  in  the  region 
to  choose  their  own  political  systems  and  pathways 
of development. It should encourage parties to resolve 
differences through inclusive political dialogue.
Secondly, in dealing with Middle East affairs, the 
international  community  should  uphold  the  purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
It  should  respect  the  independence,  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity  of  States  and  observe  widely 
recognized basic principles of international relations.
Thirdly,  the  international  community  should  help 
the  region  of  the  Middle  East  improve  the  well-being 
of its people, develop a culture of tolerance, strive for 
harmonious coexistence and address the root causes of 
regional turmoil.
Fourthly,  it  should  enhance  coordination,  tackle 
both symptoms and root causes, apply unified standards 
and  steadfastly  crack  down  on  regional  terrorist 
forces in order to prevent the development and spread 
of terrorism.
Together with the international community, China 
is  ready  to  make  its  contribution  to  finding  a  way 
out  of  the  difficult  situation  in  the  Middle  East,  thus 
enabling the early realization of peace and development 
in the region.
Mr.  Hilale  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  First  of 
all, I wish to thank the Committee on the Exercise of 
the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People and its 
Chair, Ambassador Fodé Seck, for the efforts to support 
the rights of the Palestinian people.
My  delegation  has  taken  note  of  the  report  of 
the  Committee  covering  the  period  from  October 
2015  to  October  2016  (A/71/35),  which  recounts  the 
deterioration of the humanitarian and security situation 
in the Palestinian territories, including East Jerusalem, 
which is a cause of concern. The report has considered 
and specified initiatives to relaunch the peace process. 
Those  are  initiatives  that  we  fully  support  in  order 
to  dispel  the  impasse  blocking  the  Palestinian  cause. 
Those initiatives would also help the Palestinian people 
to live in dignity and create an independent State within 
the  pre-1967  borders,  making  it  possible  for  them 
to  live  side  by  side  with  Israel  in  peace  and  security. 
My delegation has also taken note of the report of the 
Secretary-General (A/71/359).
its 
The marking of the International Day of Solidarity 
with the Palestinian People has been an opportunity for 
the  King  Mohamed  VI  to  pledge  to  the  Chair  of  the 
Committee on the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People — and through the Committee to the Palestinian 
people  and 
leadership,  headed  by  President 
Mahmoud  Abbas  —  the  full  and  ongoing  support  of 
the Kingdom of Morocco for the historic and legitimate 
rights of the Palestinian people, in particular the right 
to establish, within the borders of 4 June 1967, and with 
East Jerusalem as its capital, a viable, independent State 
living by side by side with Israel in peace and security 
and in accordance with the resolutions of international 
legitimacy. His Majesty has also specified that:
16-40731
11/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
the 
“Given  the  obstacles  that  are  impeding  the 
creation  of  a  Palestinian  State,  our  message 
today  —  in  view  of  the  uncertain  and  confused 
international  and  regional  situation  —  is  that  we 
must  heighten 
international  community’s 
awareness  with  respect  to  its  duty  towards  the 
Palestinian  people,  given  Palestinians’  ongoing 
and  increasing  suffering  due  to  the  intransigence 
of  the  other  party,  a  party  which  continues  its 
settlement activities and its aggressions in Al-Quds 
Al-Sharif  and  does  everything  to  undermine  the 
two-State solution.”
His Majesty King Mohammed VI, who chairs the 
Al-Quds  Committee,  is  following  with  deep  concern 
the  escalation  in  violence  and  the  practices  adopted 
by  Israel  in  Palestine,  especially  in  Jerusalem,  aimed 
at  destroying  the  legal  status  of  the  holy  city,  as 
set  forth  in  resolutions  of  international  legitimacy, 
which  consider  Jerusalem  to  be  an  integral  part  of 
the  Palestinian  territories  occupied  since  1967.  Those 
practices  —  including  recurring  acts  of  systematic 
aggression,  perpetrated  in  the  esplanades  of  Al-Aqsa 
mosque — seek to conflate the Palestinian cause with 
sectarian  conflict  and  to  make  Jerusalem  disintegrate 
in space and in time.
In  his  message,  His  Majesty  expressed  our 
commitment  to  support  peace,  security,  equity  and 
stability  in  Palestine.  We  will  spare  no  effort  to 
preserve the rights of the Palestinians in that city. We 
will defend the legal status of the city using political, 
legal  and  diplomatic  means.  We  will  do  everything 
possible  and  use  every  necessary  means  so  that  the 
Al-Quds  Fund  —  the  right  hand  of  the  Al-Quds 
Committee — succeeds in realizing the socioeconomic 
projects to strengthen the resilience of the Palestinians, 
to  enable  them  to  live  in  dignity  and  to  preserve  the 
heritage of that city, which is a symbol par excellence 
of coexistence and tolerance.
The only way to resolve the question of Palestine 
is to return to the negotiating table in good faith within 
a  specified  time  frame  with  a  view  to  achieving  the 
two-State  solution,  each  living  side  by  side  in  peace, 
security, harmony and cooperation.
Morocco  maintains  its  principled  position,  based 
on  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  with  regard  to  the 
achievement  of  peace  based  on  the  establishment  of 
an independent Palestinian State, with East Jerusalem 
as  its  capital,  within  the  borders  of  4  June  1967.  The 
Mr.  Uddin 
international  community 
international  community  is  therefore  called  on,  now 
more  than  ever,  to  revive  the  peace  process  within  a 
specific  time  frame  and  on  the  basis  of  international 
legitimacy.  Morocco  is  more  than  willing  to  engage 
positively  in  all  initiatives  that  will  push  forward  the 
peace process with a view to reaching a settlement that 
will ensure security and stability in the region.
(Bangladesh):  Bangladesh 
joins 
the 
its 
commitment  to  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people 
to  self-determination  and  independence.  Bangladesh 
supports the cause of an independent, viable and united 
Palestinian State on the basis of the pre-1967 borders, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital. On the International 
Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People, our Prime 
Minister Sheikh Hasina urged all concerned parties “to 
take  a  pragmatic  approach  and  work  together  for  the 
attainment  of  the  legitimate  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people”. 
in 
reaffirming 
We  appreciate  the  Secretary  General’s  report 
(A/71/359),  reflecting  his  abiding  commitment  to 
resuming  negotiations  on  the  Palestinian  question. 
We  believe  that  the  new  Secretary-General  will  also 
remain  seized  of  the  issue  of  restoring  the  political 
horizon  for  the  negotiations  to  take  off.  We  remain 
mindful of the Middle East Quartet’s efforts to assess 
the situation on the ground in order to move ahead with 
the peace process.
The  year  2017  will  mark  the  fiftieth  anniversary 
of  the  occupation  of  the  Palestinian  territories.  That 
should  be  an  occasion  for  mobilizing  the  necessary 
political  will  of  all  concerned  for  meaningful  peace 
initiatives. The immediate priority for the international 
community  should  be  to  send  out  a  clear  message  on 
putting  an  end  to  Israeli  settlement  activities  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories.  The  illegal  Israeli 
settlements  have  been  rightly  identified  as  the  main 
obstacle to a two-State solution.
The Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip is about to 
enter its tenth year. The humanitarian and socioeconomic 
situation  there  remains  an  urgent  matter  of  concern. 
We call upon the international community to impress 
upon Israel, the occupying Power, to halt its systematic 
violation of international humanitarian law and human 
rights principles. We reiterate that the implementation 
of the relevant United Nations resolutions, the Quartet’s 
road  map,  the  Arab  Peace  Plan  and  the  principle  of 
12/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
A/71/PV.50
land for peace remains critical to achieving a durable 
solution to the Palestinian question.
Bangladesh  supports  the  Palestinian  delegation’s 
interest in playing an enhanced role in the United Nations. 
We shall continue to support the work of the relevant 
United  Nations  entities  and  committees  in  promoting 
and protecting the rights of the Palestinian people.
Ms.  Stener  (Norway):  The  efforts  to  resolve 
the  conflict  by  establishing  two  States  living  side  by 
side  in  peace  and  security  remain  at  an  impasse.  We 
must strive to safeguard two decades of investment in 
building  the  foundations  for  the  two-State  solution. 
The parties need to increase their efforts to make that a 
reality. We know what steps are required. All unilateral 
actions  that  undermine  the  political  process  and  turn 
hope into confrontation must stop. The expansion and 
legalization  of  settlements  must  stop.  Violence  and 
incitement to violence must stop.
Norway,  as  the  Chair  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Liaison 
Committee  for  the  Coordination  of  the  International 
Assistance to Palestinians, the donor group for Palestine, 
sees some positive signs. The Committee’s meeting in 
New York on 19 September was the most constructive 
meeting in years. The Palestinian Authority and Israel 
reached  an  agreement  on  the  electricity  sector,  and 
important  progress  has  been  made  this  year  on  fiscal 
issues.  The  two  parties  agreed  on  key  infrastructure 
projects in Gaza. 
That way forward also warrants the full cooperation 
of the donors. The Palestinian Authority will not be able 
to close the current financial gap by itself. Continued 
budget support is needed, also to enable reform. Norway 
is actively working with the parties and the donors to 
follow  up  on  the  results  from  September.  When  the  
Ad Hoc Liaison Committee meets again in Brussels in 
the spring, we must make sure that the electricity-debt 
agreement  has  reached  its  implementation  phase,  and 
that  the  parties  have  made  serious  progress  on  water 
and energy.
The  Palestinian  Authority  needs  to  reform  and 
strengthen  its  political  institutions  and  governance 
structures.  The  West  Bank  and  Gaza  need  to  be 
reintegrated  into  one  authority  that  fully  respects  the 
parameters  of  the  security  agreements  between  Israel 
and the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
The  situation 
is  of  great  concern. 
Developing Gaza in an effective manner must remain 
in  Gaza 
a top priority. Reconstruction must be accelerated. The 
volume  of  imported  construction  material,  including 
cement, through the Gaza Reconstruction Mechanism 
needs  to  be  increased.  The  entry  of  construction 
materials  through  other  channels  is  undermining  the 
efforts  to  address  dual-use  and  security  problems  in 
Gaza.
The  mandate  and  purpose  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Liaison 
Committee  is  to  underpin  such  efforts  to  realize  the 
two-State  solution.  While  progress  on  the  economic 
files is no substitute for a political solution, the parties 
must continue their cooperation in order to advance the 
Palestinian institutions and economy in preparation for 
independence.
Mr. Sinirlioğlu (Turkey): I would like to start by 
extending our heartfelt condolences to the people and 
the Government of Cuba for the passing away of former 
President Fidel Castro, who was a legendary leader. 
At  the  outset,  let  me  emphasize  Turkey’s  strong 
and long-standing commitment to the establishment of 
a peaceful, stable and democratic environment that is 
respectful of human rights and fundamental freedoms 
in  the  Middle  East.  It  is  unfortunate  that  the  Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict  remains  the  core  challenge  to 
attaining that goal. As the Secretary-General has said, 
we should reaffirm our commitment to upholding the 
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  working  to  build 
a  future  of  peace,  justice,  security  and  dignity  for 
Palestinians and Israelis alike. 
land 
confiscation, 
The  historic  injustice,  continuing  occupation  and 
Israel’s practices in contravention of international law, 
particularly  the  systematic  expansion  of  settlements, 
erode  the  viability  of  a  two-State  solution.  House 
demolitions, 
administrative 
detentions,  denying  the  Palestinians’  fundamental 
rights, and attempts to undermine the status and sanctity 
of  Al-Haram  Al-Sharif  breed  desperation  and  anger 
among  the  Palestinians,  who  have  been  collectively 
punished  for  decades.  All  of  those  actions  combined 
weaken  the  possibility  of  peaceful  coexistence.  They 
fuel hatred, alienation and extremism in the region.
In  order  to  overcome  the  current  impasse,  the 
Palestinian people should be able to sit at the negotiating 
table as the State of Palestine on an equal standing with 
Israel.  In  that  regard,  the  recognition  of  the  State  of 
Palestine by more countries and its full integration into 
international institutions are vital. To reach a just and 
lasting peace, it is also crucial for the Palestinians to 
16-40731
13/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
voice their legitimate demands in unity. In that regard, 
Turkey continues to encourage the Palestinian groups 
to move towards reconciliation and national unity. 
In addition, empowering the Palestinian people and 
improving their living conditions through development 
assistance  and  investments  is  more  urgent  than  ever. 
Turkey  will  maintain  its  assistance  programmes,  in 
particular  those  addressing  the  ongoing  humanitarian 
catastrophe in Gaza and the development needs of the 
West Bank. 
international  community  should  uphold 
We  all  agree  that  prospects  for  lasting  peace  are 
fading away. The revitalization of the peace process is 
essential to granting lives of dignity to the Palestinian 
people  and  to  achieving  stability  in  the  region.  With 
the  Israeli  occupation  approaching  its  fiftieth  year, 
the 
its 
responsibility  and  renew  its  engagement  in  reaching 
a  negotiated  political  settlement  based  on  the  two-
State  solution,  in  accordance  with  international  law, 
the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions  and  the  Arab 
Peace  Initiative.  Turkey  will  not  cease  its  efforts  for 
a  just  and  lasting  settlement  of  the  Palestinian  issue, 
with the establishment of a sovereign and independent 
Palestinian State within the pre-1967 borders, and with 
East Jerusalem as its capital.
Mr. Bultrikov (Kazakhstan): Kazakhstan attaches 
great  importance  to  the  Middle  East  region  and 
consistently strives for a political solution to the Israeli-
Palestinian  issue.  We  are  seriously  concerned  by  the 
absence of real progress in the conflict, which impacts 
regional and international security. 
In  his  latest  report  entitled  “Assistance  to  the 
Palestinian  people”  (A/71/87),  the  Secretary-General 
points  out  the  negative  trends  on  the  ground,  which 
according  to  him  make  the  two-State  solution  more 
distant.    Kazakhstan  is  particularly  concerned  about 
the  gravity  of  the  Palestinian  situation  and  calls  for 
urgent action by the international community towards 
its  resolution  in  order  to  mitigate  the  suffering  of 
Palestinians  in  all  aspects  of  their  existence.  The 
little 
blockades  and  checkpoints 
scope  for  economic  survival,  are  worsening 
the 
socioeconomic  and  humanitarian  situation  of  the 
Palestinian population, causing relations to deteriorate 
and diminishing prospects for peace. 
in  Gaza,  with 
have denied the Palestinian people large parts of their 
territories. The separation wall is an issue of contention 
between the two sides. We see the two-State solution, 
with a return to the pre-1967 borders, as the only viable 
option  for  reaching  a  durable  peace  by  dialogue,  in 
keeping  with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
relevant Security Council resolutions. 
Other  mechanisms  and  initiatives  at  the  bilateral 
and multilateral levels, such as the road map for peace 
and the Arab Peace Initiative, should be harnessed. My 
delegation urges the Middle East Quartet to pursue its 
mediation efforts, and calls on Israeli and Palestinian 
leaders to demonstrate political responsibility towards 
the  long-sought  peace.  We  reiterate  Kazakhstan’s 
commitment to joining the multilateral effort to ensure 
peace and stability in the Middle East.
Mr. Elmajerbi (Libya) (spoke in Arabic): I would 
like to thank the Secretary-General for his report under 
this  agenda  item  (A/71/359)  and  the  Chairman  of  the 
Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights 
of  the  Palestinian  People  for  the  report  in  document 
A/71/35.
In  order  to  resolve  the  question  of  Palestine,  we 
must  first  end  the  Israeli  occupation  of  Palestine  and 
the Golan Heights. The international community has a 
responsibility to force the Israeli occupation authorities 
to  comply  with  United  Nations  resolutions  and  to 
respect  the  historic  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people, 
particularly their rights to return, to self-determination 
and to create a Palestinian State with East Jerusalem as 
its capital. 
The Israel occupation authorities now consistently 
flout  their  obligations  under  international  law.  There 
is no need for us to list all of Israel’s practices, which 
are  already  documented  by  the  United  Nations,  civil 
society  organizations  and  the  media.  However,  we 
recall  the  war  crimes  committed  against  Gaza  and  in 
Jerusalem.  The  frequent  and  excessive  use  of  force 
against  women  and  children,  the  practice  of  isolating 
Palestinian communities, settlement activities, crimes 
committed  against  Palestinians,  the  separation  wall, 
political  assassinations,  expulsions,  the  expropriation 
of land and the destruction of houses and holy places are 
all flagrant violations of human rights and international 
humanitarian law.
The settlement process and its rapid expansion in 
the occupied territories not only aggravate the conflict 
but  also  militate  against  all  peace  processes,  as  they 
Israel’s  oppression  of  the  Palestinian  people  and 
its  annexation  and  Judaization  policies  seek  to  erase 
the  Arab  identity  from  Jerusalem  and  are  carried 
14/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
A/71/PV.50
out  systematically  and  on  a  recurring  basis.  The 
occupation  authorities  pursue  their  violations  of  the 
legitimate  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  flout 
international resolutions, particularly those adopted by 
the Security Council. In this context, we commend the 
international community’s efforts to take all necessary 
measures  to  protect  the  Palestinian  people;  to  put  an 
end  to  settlement  activities,  which  are  changing  the 
situation  on  the  ground,  and  to  the  Israeli  occupation 
of Palestinian territories; and to recognize the State of 
Palestine as a full-fledged State Member of the United 
Nations.
The occupation authorities have imposed an unjust 
siege on the Gaza Strip since 2007. This is a form of 
collective punishment that threatens the lives of hundreds 
of thousands of Palestinians and violates international 
humanitarian law. It is a siege that has had a negative 
impact  on  the  daily  lives  of  the  inhabitants  of  Gaza, 
who  suffer  from  the  deterioration  of  infrastructure,  a 
lack of medication and medical equipment, electricity 
shortages, high unemployment and a lack of drinking 
water,  not  to  mention  the  military  agressions  that 
have  killed  or  wounded  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
Palestinians, including women, children and the elderly. 
The Israeli policy of expansion has not spared schools, 
especially those run by the United Nations Relief and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East, 
resulting in the displacement of thousands. 
My  country  condemns  the  Israeli  occupation  of 
the Syrian Golan and the activities carried out by the 
occupation forces against Syrian civilians in the Golan 
in an attempt to impose an Israeli identity on its Arab 
inhabitants. That constitutes a violation of international 
humanitarian  law  and  the  Geneva  Conventions.  We 
believe  that  the  necessary  steps  should  be  taken  to 
compel  Israel  to  end  its  activities  and  comply  with 
Security Council resolution 497 (1981).
Mr. Bouassila (Algeria) (spoke in Arabic): At the 
outset, I thank the members of the Committee on the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People  for  their  comprehensive  report  (A/71/35)  and 
welcome  the  important  recommendations  contained 
therein.  I  also  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
report on the matter (A/71/359).
the full rights of the Palestinian people on their lands, 
which  have  been  occupied  since  June  1967,  and  to 
establish  their  independent  State  with  East  Jerusalem 
as its capital. 
We  stress  that  the  inaction  of  the  internatinal 
community  and  its  inability  to  find  a  just  solution 
represent  an  utter  failure  of  the  contemporary  world 
order. The international community has made repeated 
calls  for  an  end  to  the  occupation,  including  through 
the General Assembly and the League of Arab States, 
but  the  Israeli  occupation  of  Palestinian  territories 
continues.  Israeli  policies  include  the  establishment 
of  the  apartheid  wall,  the  displacement  of  Palestinian 
civilians, the imposition of collective punishment and 
the ongoing blockade of Gaza, whose people there are 
suffering  the  impact  of  recent  brutal  aggressions  that 
constitute a complete violation of international law.
Israel’s 
lack  of  accountability  for 
its  brutal 
occupation allows it to pursue its daily violations of the 
human  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people,  including  the 
expansion of settlements and efforts to win acceptance 
for  them,  violence  by  settlers,  the  exploitation  of  the 
natural  resources  of  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  the 
miserable state of detainees and prisoners in detention 
centres and administrative detentions, the excessive use 
of force, extrajudicial killings, legislation proposing the 
deportation of Palestinian families and the demolition 
of  Palestinian  houses,  the  forced  displacement  of 
nomads  and  herder  communities  in  the  West  Bank 
and East Jerusalem, and the blockade of Gaza and the 
paucity of reconstruction there.
On  this  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian People, we recall that the Palestinian people 
have  the  right  to  protection  under  international  law 
and  that  Israel,  as  the  occupying  Power,  is  obliged  to 
allow  the  Palestinian  people  to  exercise  that  right  in 
full.  Israel’s  refusal  to  implement  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention  of  1949  in  the  Palestinian  territories  is  a 
flagrant act of defiance of the will of the internatinal 
community, and yet it acts without fear of punishment. 
Those injust Israeli practices and continuous violations, 
in addition to the settlement and Judaization of Al-Quds 
Al-Sharif,  are  the  main  obstacle  hindering  the  two-
State solution, as stated in the recent Quartet report. 
The General Assembly is meeting today to discuss 
the  Palestinian  question  at  a  time  when  the  prospects 
for a political solution seem to be growing ever more 
remote.  We  must  aim  for  a  solution  that  recognizes 
This ongoing situation and violations of the rights 
of the Palestinian people continue to serve as a reminder 
of  the  responsibility  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international community as a whole for the Palestinian 
16-40731
15/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
people,  who  have  been  living  under  occupation  for 
more  than  half  a  century.  This  Day  also  serves  as  a 
reminder  of  the  responsibility  of  the  United  Nations 
and the entire international community to provide them 
with the protection they deserve and to bring pressure 
to bear on Israel to end that occupation. My delegation 
welcomes  the  proposed  designation  of  2017  as  the 
international year to end the Israeli occupation.
In  conclusion,  Algeria  reiterates  its  firm  and 
principled position in support of the Palestinian people 
and  their  just  cause,  and  calls  on  the  international 
community and the United Nations to put an end to the 
occupying Power’s flagrant violations and to intensify 
their efforts to enable the Palestinian people to establish 
an independent State, with East Jerusalem as its capital, 
on the territories that have been occupied since 1967.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item. I should like to inform 
members  that  the  consideration  of  draft  resolutions 
A/71/L.18,  A/71/L.19,  A/71/L.20  and  A/71/L.21  will 
take  place  following  the  conclusion  of  the  debate  on 
agenda item 34.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 35.
Agenda item 34
The situation in the Middle East
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/71/328, 
A/71/328/Add.1 and A/71/359)
Draft resolutions (A/71/L.8 and A/71/L.22)
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative  of  Egypt  to  introduce  draft  resolutions 
A/71/L.8 and A/71/L.22.
Mr. Elshandawily (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): The 
world  is  witnessing  many  humanitarian  crises,  most 
of  them  in  the  Middle  East,  which  has  been  plagued 
by instability for many reasons. However, we must not 
forget that this instability arises historically from long 
decades of injustice meted out to Arab peoples under 
a  seemingly  indefinite  occupation.  Any  attempt  to 
use  the  crises  in  the  region  as  a  pretext  for  diverting 
attention from the Israeli occupation of Arab territories 
is  based  on  false  claims  that  contravene  the  most 
basic  humanitarian  principles  and  perpetuate  illegal, 
inhumane  situations.  Those  situations  will  continue 
to deteriorate as long as the occupation continues, and 
as  long  as  we  continue  to  condone  the  practices  and 
violations  it  inflicts  on  people  who  are  supposed  to 
be  able  to  enjoy  the  same  rights  as  any  other  peoples 
in  the  world,  especially  the  right  to  freedom,  self-
determination and a homeland.
In  line  with  the  international  rejection  of  Israel’s 
illegal  occupation  and  practices  in  the  occupied  Arab 
territories,  today  I  have  the  honour  to  introduce,  on 
behalf  of  the  sponsors,  two  draft  resolutions  under 
agenda item 34, “The situation in the Middle East”. 
Draft  resolution  A/71/L.22,  entitled  “Jerusalem”, 
stresses  that  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  are  the  main 
reference  points  for  the  issue,  and  that  any  measures 
taken by Israel, the occupying Power, to impose its laws 
or  administration  on  the  city  of  Jerusalem  are  illegal 
and therefore null and void.
The 
international  community  has  expressed 
its  grave  concern  about  Israel’s  continued  illegal 
settlement activities, including those regarding the so-
called E-1 plan and its construction of a separation wall 
in and around East Jerusalem that isolates the city from 
the rest of the occupied Palestinian territory. In view of 
our desire for peace, and in order to protect Jerusalem’s 
religious  character,  the  draft  resolution  takes  account 
of the legitimate concerns of both the Israelis and the 
Palestinians by emphasizing that a solution to the issue 
should ensure freedom of religion for all of the city’s 
inhabitants, as well as access to the city’s holy sites for 
people of all religions and nationalities. It also calls for 
respect for the historical status quo in the city, in word 
and practice, including in the Haram al-Sharif.
important  message  on  behalf  of 
Draft  resolution  A/71/L.8,  on  the  Syrian  Golan, 
sends  an 
the 
international community that despite the unprecedented 
humanitarian  crisis  and  conflict  going  on  in  Syria, 
the  world  must  not  forget  that  a  significant  part  of 
Syria’s  territory  is  still  under  occupation.  The  draft 
resolution stresses the fact that despite the 35 years that 
have  elapsed  since  the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution 497 (1981), Israel has yet to comply with its 
provisions. It also stresses the fact that the Regulations 
annexed to the 1907 Hague Convention and the Fourth 
Geneva  Convention  of  1949  continue  to  apply  to  the 
Syrian  territory  occupied  by  Israel  since  1967,  and 
declares  the  invalidity  of  Israel’s  decision  to  impose 
its  laws  on  the  Syrian  Golan  and  the  illegality  of  its 
settlements. The draft resolution also calls on Israel to 
16/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
A/71/PV.50
withdraw completely from the Syrian Golan to the line 
of 4 June 1967.
The peoples of our region continue to suffer from 
war  and  aggression  and  look  forward  to  achieving 
peace,  stability  and  coexistence.  As  the  resolutions 
of the General Assembly show, those goals cannot be 
achieved  without  serious  commitment  and  political 
will  on  the  part  of  Israel  to  fully  withdrawing  from 
all  occupied  Arab  and  Palestinian  territories,  in  line 
with the resolutions of the Assembly and the Security 
Council  and  on  the  basis  of  the  principle  of  land  for 
peace and the standards of international law.
On  behalf  of  Egypt  and  the  sponsors,  I  hope  that 
all  Member  States  will  support  the  draft  resolutions, 
and  I  urge  everyone  to  vote  in  their  favour  in  order 
to  demonstrate  our  solidarity  and  commitment  to  our 
international goals in upholding the noble purposes and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
Mr.  Mounzer  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  I  thank  the  delegation  of  the  Arab  Republic 
of  Egypt  for  introducing  draft  resolutions  A/71/L.8 
and  A/71/L.22,  entitled  “The  Syrian  Golan”  and 
“Jerusalem”, respectively. I would also like to thank the 
States that have voted in favour of the resolution on the 
Syrian Golan in the past.
Every  year,  the  General  Assembly  considers  an 
agenda  item  on  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East,  and 
has  done  so  since  its  twenty-fifth  session,  in  1970. 
Every  year,  the  Assembly  calls  on  Israel  to  end  its 
occupation  of  Arab  territories,  emphasizing  that  any 
measure  taken  by  Israel,  the  occupying  Power  in  the 
Arab  territories,  to  impose  its  laws  and  authority  on 
Jerusalem and the occupied Syrian Golan is unlawful, 
illegitimate  and  null  and  void.  The  Assembly’s 
resolutions  on  the  subject  consort  perfectly  with 
the  position  unanimously  expressed  by  the  Security 
Council  in  its  adoption  of  resolution  487  (1980),  on 
occupied Jerusalem, and resolution 497 (1981), on the 
Syrian  Golan.  They  rejected  the  Israeli  occupation’s 
provocative,  unilateral  decisions  to  annex  Jerusalem 
and the Golan and considered them null and void, with 
no legal consequences.
We are once again debating this agenda item today, 
50  years  after  Israel’s  occupation  of  Arab  territories 
and  in  the  face  of  severe  lethargy  on  the  part  of  the 
international  community  and  Israel’s  violation  of 
Palestine’s  holy  sites.  All  of  that  is  going  on  while 
Israel is escalating its acts of aggression and settlement 
activities  through,  for  example,  the  proposed  law  on 
settlement regularization, which is aimed at legitimizing 
those  colonies,  and  the  law  banning  amplification  of 
the call to prayer in Jerusalem.
Israel’s  occupation  of  the  Syrian  Golan  is  part 
of  that  sad  picture.  Israel  has  continued  to  refuse  to 
restore the Golan to Syria and to respect the resolutions 
of  international  law,  particularly  Security  Council 
resolution  497  (1981).  It  continues  to  confiscate  land 
in  the  occupied  Golan  and  to  pursue  its  settlement 
activities,  plundering  the  area’s  resources,  distorting 
historical realities, looting antiquities and laying mines. 
It  prevents  Syrian  citizens  from  pursuing  educational 
programmes  and  deprives  them  of  the  right  to  be 
identified as Syrian nationals and of the right to build 
hospitals in their own country.
I  cannot  fail  to  mention,  too,  Israel’s  policies 
of  terrorism,  repression,  arbitrary  detention,  sham 
hearings  and  sentences,  and  ongoing  aggressive, 
racist  policies  towards  our  brothers  in  the  occupied 
Syrian Golan. We recently saw Israel’s military court 
sentence one young Syrian, Amal Abu Saleh, to seven 
years and eight months in prison, and another, Bashira 
Mahmoud, to 22 months because they blocked the path 
of  an  ambulance  that  was  transporting  two  terrorists 
from the Al-Nusra Front and drove through the village 
of Majdal Shams in occupied Syria. Their sentences are 
a  demonstration  of  Israel’s  involvement  with  terrorist 
groups in Syria and its flagrant violations of Security 
Council  resolutions  related  to  the  fight  against  the 
terrorists of Da’esh and the Al-Nusra Front.
We  also  remind  the  international  community  of 
the situation of Syria’s Mandela — the freedom fighter 
Sedqi  Al-Maqet.  He  was  re-arrested  by  the  Israeli 
occupation  forces  in  March  2015,  after  27  years  in 
prison in Israel’s detention centres, because he exposed 
Israel’s cooperation with the terrorists of the Al-Nusra 
Front in the area of separation. We urge that pressure be 
put on Israel to free without delay Sedqi Al-Maqet, Iyad 
Al-Johari and Amal Abu Saleh. We also call for Bashira 
Mahmoud’s  sentence  to  be  revoked.  The  Government 
of  Syria  has  appealed  to  the  Secretary-General,  the 
Security  Council  and  other  relevant  entities  to  help 
achieve that humane goal. It seems that Mr. Mladenov 
is not aware of the serious situation of our citizens in 
the occupied Syrian Golan.
Since  those  events  in  Syria  began,  Israel,  the 
occupying Power, has added a new chapter to its record 
16-40731
17/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
of  aggressions  and  violations  of  the  separation  of 
forces agreement and of Security Council resolutions, 
including those related to the fight against terrorism. We 
have seen Israel’s support for armed terrorist groups in 
the area of separation, including the Al-Nusra Front and 
Da’esh, which are blacklisted by the Security Council. 
Israel  has  been  in  contact  with  both  groups  along 
the  ceasefire  line  and  has  facilitated  their  transit  and 
movement in the southern part of the area of separation 
and towards the north. Israel has clearly and blatantly 
provided  them  with  logistic  and  medical  support  and 
enabled them to return to Syrian territory so that they 
can continue their terrorist activities there. That is done 
openly  and  with  the  knowledge  of  the  Department  of 
Peacekeeping Operations, which has not lifted a finger 
to prevent it.
We  can  no  longer  tolerate  the  fact  that  the  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  cooperate  routinely 
and in solidarity with this occupying force, particularly 
after the statement issued on 17 April by Israel’s Head of 
Government at the provocative Cabinet meeting held by 
the occupying Power in the Golan, in which he said that 
“the Golan will always remain in Israel’s hands [and] 
Israel  will  never  withdraw  from  the  Golan  Heights”. 
We  have  heard  no  comment,  condemnation,  rejection 
or reservation expressed by the Secretary-General, the 
Secretariat or the Security Council in response to such 
provocations. 
However, the citizens of the occupied Syrian Golan 
are  standing  up  to  such  daily  declarations,  which 
clearly  and  blatantly  violate  international  law  and 
United Nations resolutions, remaining attached to their 
Syrian Arab nationality and their loyalty to Syria and 
opposed  to  such  practices  and  procedures  on  the  part 
of  Israel.  The  Syrian  Golan  is  an  integral  part  of  the 
Syrian  Arab  Republic.  Syrian  Arab  nationality  is  an 
unchanging criterion for us, passed down from father 
to  son.  Our  lands  are  property  sacred  to  the  children 
of Syria and we do not recognize any Israeli decision 
that aims to annex us to Israel. We categorically reject 
any resolutions or decisions of the Israeli Government 
designed to usurp our Syrian Arab identity.
Today 
the  Government  of 
the  Syrian  Arab 
Republic  reaffirms  that  Syria’s  sovereignty  over  the 
occupied Syrian Golan within the 1967 lines cannot be 
negotiated  or  bargained  over.  Syria’s  demands  in  the 
pursuit of peace are not painful concessions. The lands 
that have been usurped and violated must be returned 
to their legitimate owners. Sooner or later, the Israeli 
colonizers must leave our lands in the Golan. 
In that regard, the main question is, how long will 
Israel remain above the law, evade accountability and 
continue its bellicose practices? The General Assembly 
must take the necessary measures to contain Israel and 
compel it to end the occupation of the Arab territories 
and withdraw from them, in line with pre-1967 borders, 
instead of usurping that area. I call on States to support 
draft  resolutions  A/71/L.8,  on  the  Syrian  Golan,  and 
A/71/L.22, on Jerusalem. 
Ms.  AlDuraie  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, my delegation would like to express its support 
for the Secretary-General for his efforts to strengthen 
international peace and security and his close monitoring 
of  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East.  We  welcome  the 
report of the Secretary-General in documents A/71/328 
and Add.1 and support all international efforts aimed at 
laying the foundation for regional security and stability. 
We will continue to take part in all efforts that seek to 
strengthen international peace and security.
The  failed  peace  process  in  the  Middle  East  is  a 
major  challenge  for  the  international  community.  It 
reflects our paralysis in spite of the pressure that has 
been  exerted  on  Israel  for  more  than  60  years  in  an 
attempt  to  compel  it  to  stop  the  settlement  building 
and continued violations of the rights of Palestinians, 
who remain the target of systematic acts of aggression. 
My  country  offers  its  full  support  and  solidarity  to 
the  Palestinian  people  so  that  they  can  achieve  their 
aspirations  to  an  independent  Palestinian  State  with 
East  Jerusalem  as  it  capital,  in  line  with  4  June  1967 
borders,  the  principle  of  land  for  peace  and  the  Arab 
Peace Initiative.
We  again  call  on  the  international  community  to 
compel Israel to implement Security Council resolution 
497  (1981),  which  calls  on  Israel  to  withdraw  from 
the  occupied  Syrian  Golan.  We  support  all  measures 
undertaken by the fraternal Lebanese Republic aimed 
at  preserving  its  stability,  security,  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity.  We  stress  the  need  for  Israel  to 
cease its continued violations of Lebanon’s sovereignty, 
withdraw  from  all  occupied 
territory  and  fully 
implement Security Council resolution 1701 (2006). 
My  delegation  is  extremely  concerned  about  the 
ongoing  crisis  and  bloody  conflict  in  Syria,  which 
is  now  in  its  sixth  year.  We  are  concerned  about  the 
deteriorating humanitarian situation, the displacement 
18/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
A/71/PV.50
of 13 million Syrians inside and outside of the country 
and  the  death  of  more  than  300,000  people.  Syrian 
refugees make up the largest refugee community in the 
world. 
In that connection, we cannot ignore the situation in 
the city of Aleppo. Statistics show that the humanitarian 
situation  continues  to  worsen.  Two  hundred  and 
seventy-five thousand people are under siege in eastern 
Aleppo.  That  is  half  of  those  besieged  in  Syria,  for 
some  582,000  people  are  under  siege  throughout  the 
country.  In  that  regard,  once  again,  we  condemn  the 
deliberate  targeting  of  all  residential  areas,  as  well 
as  civilian  and  medical  infrastructure  across  Syria, 
including the indiscriminate use of barrels bombs and 
internationally prohibited weapons. We stress the need 
for  all  perpetrators  of  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity to be brought to justice. 
The State of Kuwait reiterates its support for United 
Nations  and  other  international  efforts  to  reach  a 
political solution in Syria, in line with Security Council 
resolution 2254 (2015), which sets a clear path to such 
a  solution  based  on  the  first  Geneva  Communiqué  of 
2012  (S/2012/523,  annex)  and  the  Vienna  statements 
regarding the establishment of a transitional governing 
body with full executive powers to meet the legitimate 
aspirations of the Syrian people to a life of freedom and 
dignity in a way that would preserve Syria’s stability, 
sovereignty and independence. 
In that regard, in an effort to alleviate the suffering 
of  the  Syrian  people,  in  2013,  2014  and  2015  my 
country hosted three international donor conferences in 
support of humanitarian efforts there. My country has 
pledged $1.3 billion, most of which has been disbursed 
to specialized agencies of the United Nations and other 
intergovernmental and non-governmental humanitarian 
organizations.  My  country  also  co-chaired  the  fourth 
conference of support for the humanitarian situation in 
Syria, which was held in London early this year.
The  State  of  Kuwait  supports  the  efforts  of  the 
Secretary-General  and  his  Special  Envoy  for  Yemen, 
Mr. Ismail Ould Cheikh Ahmed, to find a solution to the 
crisis in Yemen in order to reach a consensus that would 
restore  security  and  stability  in  Yemen  and  end  the 
bloodshed and the humanitarian suffering of the Yemeni 
people,  based  on  the  three  terms  of  reference  —  the 
outcome of the national dialogue, the Gulf initiative and 
its  implementation  mechanism  —  as  well  as  relevant 
including  resolution 
Security  Council  resolutions, 
2216 (2015). We reiterate our rejection of all unilateral 
measures,  including  those  announced  by  the  Houthis 
and  by  the  general  public,  to  establish  a  Government 
of Salvation. We know that the Government of Yemeni 
President  Abdrabuh  Mansour  Hadi  Mansour  is  the 
internationally recognized legitimate Government. 
Kuwait  reiterates  its  support  for  the  security  and 
stability of Yemen, which would preserve its sovereignty 
and  its  territorial  integrity.  We  are  committed  to  the 
Yemeni political process and seek to ensure its success 
in line with the Security Council resolutions. In April, 
Kuwait  hosted  the  Yemeni  peace  negotiations  under 
the auspices of the United Nations. We hope that those 
negotiations  will  resume  as  soon  as  possible  so  that 
the  various  Yemeni    parties  can  achieve  peace  and 
restore  stability  and  security  in  that  Arab  country,  in 
order to move forward on the path to development and 
reconstruction.
The  State  of  Kuwait  reiterates  its  support  to  the 
Iraqi  Government.  We  commend  Iraqi  achievements 
in  combating  terrorism  and  Da’esh.  We  support  all 
measures  taken  by  the  Government  to  preserve  the 
security,  stability  and  territorial  integrity  of  Iraq  in 
a  way  that  would  preserve  security  and  safety  of  all 
sectors of the fraternal Iraqi people.
With  regard  to  the  disturbing  situation  in  Libya, 
Kuwait  welcomes  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Presidency  Council  to  implement  the  Libyan 
Political Agreement. We hope that such an agreement 
will  help  the  Libyan  people  preserve  the  security, 
stability and independence of their country.
Mr.  Safronkov 
(Russian  Federation) 
the  situation 
(spoke 
in  Russian):  Unfortunately, 
in 
the 
Middle  East  region,  the  cradle  of  world  religions 
and  civilizations,  remains  tense.  The  clashes  on  the 
West  Bank  of  the  Jordan  River,  acts  of  terrorism  and 
outbreaks  of  violence  have  led  to  the  suffering  of 
Palestinian  civilians  and  the  Israelis.  The  situation  is 
worsening,  with  continued  violations  of  the  ceasefire 
around  the  Gaza  Strip.  Against  the  backdrop  of  the 
deteriorating  situation,  we  see    increasing  radicalism 
among  the  Palestinian  population,  especially  among 
youth, and extremist views are increasing on both sides. 
We strongly condemn any acts of violence, which whip 
up  an  already  difficult  atmosphere  in  the  region  and 
cause immense suffering to civilians, both in Israel and 
in the occupied Palestinian territories.
16-40731
19/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
We are also concerned about the unilateral activities 
of  Israel  aimed  at  creating  facts  on  the  ground.  The 
Israeli authorities, in spite of the stern condemnations 
by the international community, continue to build and 
expand settlements in the occupied territories, and at a 
rate that will enable them to reach a point of no return 
in the near future. We have noted with grave concern 
the  reports  that  a  draft  bill  is  under  consideration  by 
the  Knesset  that  would  establish  a  procedure  for  the 
legalization  of  outlying  settlements  and  the  various 
facilities  that  have  been  built  on  private  Palestinian 
land.  The  expropriation  of  land  in  the  West  Bank 
area  continues,  as  does  the  destruction  of  Palestinian 
homes.  We  are  convinced  that  all  of  those  activities 
only undermine the realization of a two-State solution 
aimed at solving the Palestinian problem. The Israelis, 
the  Palestinians  and  the  international  community  all 
agree that there is no alternative to a two-State solution.
The conflict zone will be stabilized only if there are 
opportunities for a renewal of substantive talks on the 
basis  of  generally  recognized  international  decisions. 
In order to overcome the deadlock in the peace process, 
the  body  approved  by  Security  Council,  namely,  the 
Middle East Quartet of international negotiators, should 
be  actively  engaged.  On  1  July  the  Quartet  issued  its 
report (S/2016/595, annex) on the situation with regard 
to the Palestine-Israel conflict settlement process, and 
it has become a landmark in the context of international 
efforts to find a Middle East settlement. 
The  report  not  only  gives  a  real  description  of 
Palestinian-Israeli activities, but also includes concrete 
recommendations aimed at safeguarding the prospects 
for a two-State solution. We are convinced that sincere 
implementation by the parties of those recommendations 
will contribute to taking the situation out of its current 
deadlock and to overcoming mutual distrust. However, 
quite  frankly,  we  must  recognize  that  the  provisions 
contained in the document are not being complied with. 
That is shown by our assessment of the situation in the 
Palestinian territories.
In the context of international efforts to find a way 
out of the deadlock in the Middle East peace process, 
Russia has been carrying out a consistent policy with 
all the interested parties. We support intensive contacts 
with  participants  in  the  conflict  and  with  regional 
States.  We  reaffirm  that  the  invitation  proffered  to 
President  Abbas  and  Prime  Minister  Netanyahu  still 
remains in effect. Under the auspices of the President 
of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, a meeting is 
to be held in Moscow to discuss optimal ways to find a 
way out of the deadlock in the peace process. We note 
that the Palestinian and Israeli leaders have repeatedly 
reaffirmed  their  fundamental  readiness  to  carry  out 
such an initiative.
We  call  for  the  speedy  restoration  of  Palestinian 
unity, based on the Palestine Liberation Organization’s 
political platform and the Arab Peace Initiative. With 
the  Palestinians  working  together,  it  will  be  much 
easier  to  fight  for  the  realization  of  their  legitimate 
aspirations to establish a sovereign, independent State, 
living  side  by  side  with  Israel  in  peace  and  security. 
We support the Palestinian leadership’s quest to form a 
national unity Government and to hold presidential and 
parliamentary elections.
We are seriously concerned about the situation in the 
Gaza Strip, where the humanitarian situation continues 
to be very serious. There is not enough drinking water, 
there  are  disruptions  in  electricity  supplies  and  the 
unemployment rate is among the highest in the world. 
All  of  that  contributes  to  radicalization  among  local 
residents, which is being used by extremists. We agree 
with  the  view  of  the  international  community  on  the 
need to lift the blockade on Gaza.
Because  of  the  difficult  humanitarian  situation 
faced  by  Palestinian  refugees,  the  Russian  Federation 
in  November  decided  to  provide  a  yearly  voluntary 
contribution to the budget of the United Nations Relief 
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East.
Next  year  marks  50  years  since  the  adoption  of 
Security  Council  resolution  242  (1967),  which  is  one 
of the main documents whose international legal basis 
is  generally  recognized  for  a  comprehensive  Middle 
East  settlement.  Unfortunately,  we  have  to  note  that, 
after  half  a  century,  this  outmoded,  chronic  conflict 
is  still  far  from  being  resolved,  and  the  prospects  for 
a  settlement  still  remain  vague.  The  relative  calm  of 
recent times in the Arab conflict should not mislead us. 
The situation remains tense and fraught with danger in 
the context of the conflagrations that are taking place in 
the Middle East region, which are fraught with the most 
serious consequences. But this anniversary of the most 
important Security Council decision on a Middle East 
settlement should and must become for us a stimulus to 
achieve progress in that most important area of world 
politics.
20/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
A/71/PV.50
Ms. Ibrahim (Maldives): On behalf of the Republic 
of the Maldives, I wish to express our deep appreciation 
to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports  under  this 
agenda item (A/71/328, A/71/328/Add.1 and A.71/359) 
and his good offices, and for the continuing efforts to  
find lasting solutions to the various conflicts that still 
plague the Middle East.
This debate is taking place at a timely juncture with 
regard  to  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East,  especially 
at  a  time  when  the  world  is  apprehensive  over  the 
grave humanitarian situation in Syria, particularly the 
escalating  violence  in  Aleppo.  The  Maldives  remains 
gravely  concerned  about  the  escalating  violence  and 
conflict in the region as a whole. The Middle East is the 
cradle of civilization and a centre of deep knowledge, 
tradition and culture, and peace in the region is crucial 
for its people and for the world as a whole.
Peace  is  both  an  enabler  and  a  by-product  of 
development, for there is no peace without development 
and no development without peace. The situation in the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory  illustrates  that  reality. 
The  Palestinian  people  continue  to  suffer  under  the 
Israeli occupation. With no end in sight to the conflict 
and the violence, basic necessities such as food, water, 
employment, working institutions and systems remain 
compromised.  Over  the  past  70  years,  generations 
have  grown  up  in  an  atmosphere  of  hatred,  fear  and 
violence. Nonetheless, the occupation of the Palestinian 
territories  and  the  incessant  violation  of  the  human 
rights of the Palestinian people continue unchecked.
The failure to realize the right to self-determination 
of the Palestinian people epitomizes the inability of the 
international community to work together to bring an 
end to the Palestinian conflict despite countless United 
Nations  resolutions,  the  Madrid  principles,  the  Oslo 
Accords, the Arab Peace Initiative and the Quartet road 
map,  which  strive  to  overcome  the  Israeli  occupation 
and apartheid system in place. The perpetual hostility 
and  conflict  in  occupied  Palestine  have  compromised 
peace and security in the region for decades. A solution 
is  necessary.  The  Maldives  reiterates  its  call  for  the 
full realization of the right to self-determination of the 
Palestinian people. The Maldives stands with Palestine 
in its quest to establish its own State alongside Israel on 
the basis of the pre-1967 borders, with East Jerusalem 
as its capital.
The Maldives notes with grave concern the events 
that  are  taking  place  in  Syria,  particularly  Aleppo, 
which  the  Under-Secretary-General  for  Humanitarian 
Affairs  characterized  as  “our  generation’s  shame”  in 
his briefing to the Security Council  (see S/PV.7795). 
For  years,  we  have  watched  the  violence  in  Syria 
escalate  and  the  death  toll  reach  into  the  thousands. 
It  is  now  into  the  hundreds  of  thousands,  with  even 
more people displaced and injured and nearly a million 
persons under siege. The Maldives is raising its voice 
at  the  United  Nations,  doing  all  it  can  to  support  the 
Syrian people — the Syrian men, women and children 
who are suffering endlessly. We call upon all parties to 
set politics aside and take the side of humankind.
While  Syria  is  being  destroyed,  the  conflict  is 
causing an unending web of violence and destabilization 
in the entire Middle East region. The vacuum created 
in many parts of the region has led to the birth of the 
so-called Islamic State, which uses the Islamic religion 
to falsely legitimize barbaric and relentless violations 
of humanitarian law. The Maldives condemns attempts 
to  attribute  any  terrorism  to  any  religion,  culture  or 
tradition. We condemn any such acts committed in the 
name  of  Islam.  We  condemn  terrorism  and  terrorist 
attacks in all their forms and dimensions.
In  today’s  interconnected  world,  the  effects  of 
conflict in the region cannot be contained, nor should 
they  be.  The  international  community  has  to  step  up, 
take  action  and  present  a  united  front  and  a  unified 
voice  against  terrorism,  against  violence  and  against 
oppression. We cannot stress enough the importance of 
political  compromise  and  the  productive  engagement 
of  the  international  community  to  resolve  the  many 
conflicts  in  the  Middle  East.  The  Maldives  looks  to 
the United Nations and the international community to 
make renewed efforts for a lasting solution in a region 
that has been mired in strife for far too long.
Mr.  Okamura  (Japan):  I  thank  the  President  for 
convening this important meeting. I would like to take 
this opportunity to congratulate the people of Palestine 
on  the  occasion  of  yesterday’s  International  Day  of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People.
Instability in the Middle East has had repercussions 
beyond the region, the most prominent manifestations 
being the waves of refugees and migrants and the spread 
of  violent  extremism.  The  international  community 
has dealt with those issues with mixed results at best. 
However, we must be aware that they are just symptoms 
of deeper issues that we should not lose sight of. 
16-40731
21/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
In the Security Council open debate on the situation 
in  the  Middle  East  in  July  (see  S/PV.7736),  Japan 
stressed  that  the  restoration  and  the  strengthening  of 
governance  must  be  promoted  in  order  to  create  an 
inclusive  and  tolerant  society  that  is  resilient  against 
extremism.  Those  efforts  cannot  be  completed 
overnight,  and  the  international  community  must  be 
united in making such efforts.
With regard to the question of Palestine, a number of 
resolutions will be adopted during the current session of 
the General Assembly. However, we should not consider 
that  that  represents  sufficient    international  effort  to 
bring about a peaceful solution to the issue. Now more 
than ever, we need actions that have a tangible impact 
on the ground. With regard to Palestine, it seems that 
we  have  actually  moved  away  from  achieving  a  two-
State solution.
Settlement activities by Israel continue in the West 
Bank  and  East  Jerusalem.  Settlement  activities  are  in 
violation of international law. Japan calls upon Israel to 
immediately freeze such activities. 
At the same time, we continue to see violence from 
both  sides,  with  varying  degrees  of  intensity.  Cases 
of  violence  indicate  that  a  one-State  reality  is  not  in 
the  interests  of  either  party,  in  view  of  the  persisting 
violence  and  turmoil.  I  would  like  to  call  upon  the 
leaders  of  both  sides  to  renew  their  commitment  to  a 
two-State  solution  and  to  take  concrete  steps  towards 
the resumption of peace negotiations.
Japan  stands  ready  to  cooperate  with  initiatives 
that  will  have  a  positive  impact  in  promoting  a  two-
State solution. We have also continued our own efforts 
to  create  an  environment  more  conducive  to  peace 
negotiations. One example is the Jericho Agro-Industrial 
Park, the flagship project of our Corridor for Peace and 
Prosperity initiative. We have continuously invested in 
the  Park,  which  is  a  medium-  to  long-term  project  to 
promote the sustainability of the Palestinian economy, 
in  cooperation  with  Israel,  Jordan  and  Palestine.  The 
project is approaching its tenth year, and now we have 
three  Palestinian  companies  operating  and  creating 
jobs. We envisage that in the coming years the products 
made in the Park will be exported through Jordan to the 
region and beyond. We believe that a more sustainable 
Palestinian economy will make the two-State solution 
more viable, and cooperation among the parties through 
the project enhances the spirit of coexistence.
Achieving  a  two-State  solution  means  achieving 
coexistence  between  Israel  and  Palestine.  In  order  to 
facilitate  confidence-building  between  the  two,  Japan 
has  been  inviting  future  leaders  in  various  fields 
from  both  sides  to  Japan  since  1997.  During  their 
stay in Japan, they have a chance to engage in various 
activities  together  and  exchange  views.  We  have  held 
that programme every year for about 20 years, and over 
200 people have participated so far. I had the chance to 
meet with one of the participants from the Israeli side. 
He appreciated his experience very much and told me 
that before the programme he had never had a chance to 
talk in depth with a Palestinian. We are looking forward 
to again welcoming five Israelis and five Palestinians 
next month.
There  is  no  easy  solution  to  the  question  of 
Palestine,  but  we  believe  that  even  when  the  political 
process is stagnant, there is something that we can do to 
create an environment more conducive to peace. Japan 
stands  ready  to  continue  its  efforts  together  with  the 
international community.
The Middle East today is awash with issues, many 
of  which  are  symptoms  of  deeper  problems.  While 
symptoms themselves are often quite difficult, we must 
keep in mind the necessity of embodying inclusiveness 
and coexistence in the region so as to achieve enduring 
peace.  If  the  parties  cannot  share  a  hope  for  such 
a  future,  it  is  very  difficult  for  them  to  sit  down  and 
negotiate. 
Japan  believes 
that  governance, 
inclusiveness 
and coexistence are the keys to bringing peace to that 
region of great diversity. We will continue to engage in 
the region with that perspective in mind.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item. 
Before  moving  on  to  the  voting,  I  would  like 
to  inform  members  that  action  on  draft  resolutions 
A/71/L.8  and  A/71/L.22  will  be  taken  after  we  take 
action  on  draft  resolutions  A/71/L.18,  A/71/L.19, 
A/71/L.20 and A/71/L.22, which were submitted under 
agenda item 35. 
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 34.
22/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
Agenda item 35 (continued)
Question of Palestine 
Draft resolutions (A/71/L.18, A/71/L.19, 
A/71/L.20 and A/71/L.21)
The Acting President: Before the Assembly takes 
action on the draft resolutions one by one, members are 
reminded that they will have an opportunity to explain 
their vote on all four draft resolutions before and after 
action is taken on all draft resolutions. 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat. 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I would like to inform 
the  Assembly  of  an  oral  revision  of  draft  resolution 
A/71/L.18,  which  the  the  sponsors  have  requested 
the  Secretariat  to  announce.  The  document  symbol 
in  footnote  7  of  this  draft  resolution,  which  reads 
“UNCTAD/APP/2016/1”, should read “TD/B/63/3”. 
The  Acting  President:  We  shall  now  proceed  to 
consider draft resolutions A/71/L.18, as orally revised, 
A/71/L.19, A/71/L.20 and A/71/L.21. 
Before  giving 
the 
floor 
in 
explanations  of  vote  before  the  voting,  may  I  remind 
delegations that explanations of vote are limited to 10 
minutes and should be made by delegations from their 
seats. 
to  delegations 
I now give the floor to the representative of Israel.
Ms.  Meitzad  (Israel):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
speaking of the deadly fires that raged in Israel for over 
a week, which were put out in the past few days. As a 
consequence  of  those  fires,  dozens  of  Israeli  citizens 
have been hospitalized and tens of thousands have been 
forced  to  evacuate  their  homes.  Fortunately,  no  lives 
were lost in that catastrophe, but hundreds of families 
watched their homes disintegrate in front of them and 
saw the places of their precious family moments go up 
in smoke.
Sadly, some, including Hamas, chose that moment 
of tragedy to celebrate the terrible human loss and even 
to  encourage  further  deliberate  acts  of  arson.  While 
the  fires  brought  out  such  appalling  and  heartless 
behaviour,  the  tragedy  also  brought  out  the  best  in 
humankind. Nations from around the world came to our 
aid when we needed them most. I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank those that have already supplied 
A/71/PV.50
crucial help, namely, Cyprus, Greece, Italy, the Russian 
Federation, Turkey, Croatia, France, Spain, Azerbaijan, 
Ukraine,  the  United  States  of  America,  the  United 
Kingdom, the Palestinian Authority and all other States 
that offered their assistance. Let me add that the sight of 
Israeli and Palestinian firefighters standing side by side 
to fight those fires is a symbol of hope for the future.
On 29 November 1947, the United Nations adopted 
resolution  181  (II),  known  as  the  partition  resolution, 
which recommended the creation of independent Arab 
and Jewish States living side by side. While the State of 
Israel accepted that resolution, the Arab world rejected 
it  and  launched  a  war  against  the  newly  established 
State.  Sixty-nine  years  later,  it  is  shameful  to  see 
how  that  important  date  has  become  an  annual  event 
dedicated to bashing Israel at the United Nations, and 
how some countries, many of which spoke here today 
and yesterday, have yet to accept the existence of Israel 
in the Middle East and abuse this Hall to spread baseless 
allegations against my country.
The Assembly is convened here today to vote on a 
series of draft resolutions that serve those who prefer 
to  promote  a  biased  narrative  that  does  not  serve 
either  side.  The  six  draft  resolutions  that  are  being 
considered here today not only fail to promote dialogue 
or  build  trust,  but  they  also  create  an  organizational 
infrastructure  that  abuses  United  Nations  funding  to 
allow  anti-Israel  activities  to  take  place  under  United 
Nations auspices.
At a time when the world is facing many devastating 
conflicts  and  humanitarian  disasters,  it  is  regrettable 
to  see  that  the  Assembly  is  meeting  once  again  to 
adopt  draft  resolutions  that  divert  precious  financial 
resources  to  wasteful  and  politicized  bodies  whose 
only purpose is to attack Israel. Those bodies include 
the  special  information  programme  on  the  question 
of  Palestine  and  the  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights 
of  the  Secretariat  —  the  only  Secretariat  bodies  that 
are  dedicated  solely  to  one  specific  conflict,  or  more 
precisely, to the public relations activities of one side 
to  the  conflict  —  as  well  as  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People, which is a hotbed of anti-Israel activity.
The Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable 
Rights of the Palestinian People is tasked with promoting 
the Palestinian political agenda at the United Nations. 
The  Committee  organizes  United  Nations  events  and 
international  conferences  specializing  in  presenting 
16-40731
23/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
false facts and half-truths and in promoting an agenda 
clearly directed against Israel. The Committee has also 
accredited a number of non-governmental organizations, 
some of which call for the boycott of Israel, and they do 
so as invited guests of the Committee at United Nations 
events held on United Nations premises.
That  outrageous  Committee  is  being  supported 
by  an  office  in  the  Secretariat,  namely,  the  Division 
for Palestinian Rights, which runs the United Nations 
anti-Israel  propaganda  programme,  mobilizing  the 
resources  of  the  Department  of  Political  Affairs  to 
promote  their  agenda.  Such  a  division  is  unparalleled 
in  this  institution.  There  is  no  other  office  in  the 
Secretariat that runs a propaganda programme against 
a  State  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  and  does  so 
using United Nations resources.
As  for  the  special  information  programme  on  the 
question  of  Palestine,  that  is  a  programme  led  by  the 
Department  of  Public  Information,  which  has  offered 
a  biased  and  misleading  narrative  about  our  region 
since  its  inception.  Circulating  prejudiced  materials 
under  the  banner  of  the  United  Nations  undermines 
this institution’s integrity and impartiality. Hence, it is 
crucial  to  make  sure  that  no  United  Nations  platform 
is  being  abused  in  order  to  disseminate  materials 
promoting anti-Israel messages, including social media 
platforms.
Unfortunately, 
the  recent  International  Media 
Seminar on Peace in the Middle East, organized by the 
Department  of  Public  Information,  which  took  place 
in  August  in  Pretoria,  was  an  unfortunate  reminder 
of the all-too-common distortion and manipulation of 
information  by  a  United  Nations  body.  As  is  evident 
from  the  seminar’s  discussions,  debates  and  panels, 
it  was  a  completely  one-sided  event,  presenting 
only  the  Palestinian  narrative.  Shamefully,  some  of 
the  speakers  expressed  open  sympathy  with  the  the 
boycott, divestment and sanctions movement, which is 
conducting  a  global  campaign  of  misinformation  and 
outright slander against Israel.
In the light of that information, it is quite baffling 
why the United Nations, which faces a severe budgetary 
deficit,  would  spend  approximately  $6.5  million  a 
year  on  those  bodies,  which  are  dedicated  solely  to 
promoting the Palestinian narrative. Those who vote in 
favour of these resolutions should ask themselves: Why 
is  the  United  Nations  giving  that  money  to  promote 
a  purely  anti-Israel  agenda  instead  of  allocating  it  to 
those who are in dire need of humanitarian assistance?
These outrageous and wasteful resolutions are not 
only  counterproductive,  but  they  also  become  more 
detached  from  reality  with  each  passing  year.  Since 
September  2015,  terror  attacks  against  Israelis  have 
claimed the lives of 42 citizens and injured more than 
600.  Yet  these  draft  resolutions  include  no  mention 
of  those  victims,  let  alone  take  a  stand  condemning 
the  incitement  that  fuelled  the  vile  acts  of  terror  that 
brought about their terrible fates. 
Furthermore, the draft resolutions under discussion 
do  not  mention  the  internationally  recognized  terror 
organization  Hamas  —  not  even  once.  That  is  an 
organization  that  fires  rockets  towards  Israel  and 
builds terror tunnels, in a clear threat to the safety and 
security of both Israeli citizens and the population of 
Gaza alike. 
The  list  can  go  on  and  on,  but  the  bottom  line  is 
very  clear:  selective  and  biased  resolutions  will  not 
bring  the  two  sides  together;  it  will  only  drive  them 
further apart.
Another concerning element of these resolutions is 
the shameful refusal to use the term “Temple Mount”. 
The  Temple  Mount,  what  we  call  “Har  Habayit”  in 
Hebrew, is the holiest site in the Jewish faith and a place 
sacred to all Abrahamic religions — Islam, Christianity 
and Judaism. Yet two of the draft resolutions that will 
be voted on here today omit any reference to the Jewish 
or  Christian  connection  to  the  Temple  Mount.  That 
deliberate  omission  represents  much  more  than  just 
words on paper. It is a testament to the persistent refusal 
of the Palestinians and their supporters to recognize the 
historical connection of the Jewish people to that holy 
site and to the city of Jerusalem.
The  bitter  reality  is  that  the  six  draft  resolutions 
offer  a  one-sided  account  of  the  situation  and  only 
perpetuate a zero-sum approach to the conflict. They 
send  a  message  that  the  only  way  to  support  the 
Palestinians  is  by  criticizing  Israel.  That  idea  is  in 
stark  contradiction  to  the  cooperation  we  witnessed 
just recently between the two sides in a time of stress. 
Let  no  one  delude  themselves:  supporting  these  draft 
resolutions  and  the  inherent  bias  against  Israel  at  the 
United Nations will not advance the cause of peace; it 
will  only  make  peace  harder  to  achieve.  I  call  on  all 
the Members that genuinely wish to assist in achieving 
a  durable  solution  for  Israel  and  the  Palestinians  to 
24/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
A/71/PV.50
take  a  stand  against  these  resolutions  and  take  steps 
to facilitate direct negotiations, without preconditions, 
between the parties.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 
speaker in explanation of vote before the voting. 
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolutions  A/71/L.18  as  orally  revised,  A/71/L.19, 
A/71/L.20 and A/71/L.21.
We  turn  first  to  draft  resolution  A/71/L.18,  as 
orally revised, entitled “Committee on the Exercise of 
the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of draft resolution A/71/L.18, 
the following countries have also become sponsors of 
the draft resolution, as orally revised: Bangladesh, the 
Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Malaysia, Mali and Viet Nam.
The Acting President: A recorded vote  has  been 
requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Azerbaijan,  Bahamas, 
Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belize,  Benin, 
Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of),  Brazil, 
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cabo 
Verde,  Cambodia,  Chad,  Chile,  China,  Comoros, 
Costa  Rica,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia, 
Fiji,  Gambia,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Malaysia, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Nepal,  Nicaragua,  Nigeria,  Oman,  Pakistan, 
Philippines, Qatar, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and 
the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal, 
Singapore,  Solomon  Islands,  South  Africa,  Sri 
Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Timor-Leste,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  United 
Arab  Emirates,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania, 
Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Australia,  Canada,  Guatemala,  Israel,  Marshall 
Islands,  Micronesia  (Federated  States  of),  Nauru, 
Palau, United States of America
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Armenia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon, 
Colombia,  Croatia,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, 
Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Norway,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay, 
Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic 
of  Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  San 
Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, 
Switzerland,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia, Togo, Tonga, Ukraine, United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Vanuatu
Draft  resolution  A/71/L.18  as  orally  revised,  was 
adopted  by  100  votes  to  9,  with  55  abstentions 
(resolution 71/20).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/71/L.19, entitled 
“Division for Palestinian Rights of the Secretariat”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that since the submission of draft resolution A/71/L.19, 
the  following  countries  have  also  become  sponsors: 
the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Brunei Darussalam, 
Malaysia, Mali and Viet Nam.
The Acting President: A recorded vote  has  been 
requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Azerbaijan,  Bahamas, 
Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belize,  Benin, 
Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of),  Brazil, 
16-40731
25/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cabo 
Verde,  Cambodia,  Chad,  Chile,  China,  Comoros, 
Costa  Rica,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia, 
Fiji,  Gambia,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, 
Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Malaysia,  Maldives, 
Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Morocco, 
Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, 
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Saint 
Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solomon Islands, 
South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian 
Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Trinidad and 
Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  United 
Arab  Emirates,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania, 
Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Australia,  Canada,  Guatemala,  Israel,  Marshall 
Islands,  Micronesia  (Federated  States  of),  Nauru, 
Palau, United States of America
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Armenia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon, 
Colombia,  Croatia,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Greece,  Honduras,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland, 
Italy,  Japan,  Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Montenegro, 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway,  Panama, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Poland, 
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, 
Romania, Russian Federation, San Marino, Serbia, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, 
Tonga, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, Vanuatu
Draft resolution A/71/L.19 was adopted by 98 votes 
to 9, with 57 abstentions (resolution 71/21).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/71/L.20, entitled 
“Special  information  programme  on  the  question  of 
Palestine  of  the  Department  of  Public  Information  of 
the Secretariat”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce that since the submission of draft resolution 
A/71/L.20,  the  following  countries  have  also  become 
sponsors:  Belarus,  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia, 
Brunei Darussalam, Malaysia and Mali.
like 
The Acting President: A recorded vote  has  been 
requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Bahamas, 
Azerbaijan, 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Austria, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational  State 
of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia,  Chad,  Chile,  China, 
Colombia,  Comoros,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Cuba, 
Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea, 
Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India, 
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, 
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malaysia, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, 
Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, Netherlands, New 
Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar, 
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
Russian  Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Saudi 
Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands,  South  Africa,  Spain, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-
Leste,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates, 
26/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
A/71/PV.50
United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay, 
Uzbekistan,  Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of), 
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Australia,  Canada, 
Islands, 
Micronesia  (Federated  States  of),  Palau,  United 
States of America
Israel,  Marshall 
Abstaining:
Cameroon,  Honduras,  Nauru,  Paraguay,  Togo, 
Tonga, Vanuatu
Draft  resolution  A/71/L.20  was  adopted  by  153 
votes to 7, with 7 abstentions (resolution 71/22).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/71/L.21, entitled 
“Peaceful settlement of the question of Palestine”. 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that since the submission of draft resolution A/71/L.21, 
the  following  countries  have  also  become  sponsors: 
Bangladesh, the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Brunei 
Darussalam, Malaysia, Mali and Vietnam.
The Acting President: A recorded vote  has  been 
requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, 
Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize,  Benin, 
Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and 
Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, 
Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia, 
Chad,  Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Costa 
Rica,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Denmark, 
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El 
Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, 
France,  Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic  of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan, 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Latvia, 
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta, 
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua, 
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar, 
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
Russian  Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Saudi 
Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands,  South  Africa,  Spain, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-
Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates, 
United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay, 
Uzbekistan,  Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of), 
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Israel,  Marshall 
Islands,  Micronesia 
Canada, 
(Federated States of), Nauru, Palau, United States 
of America
Abstaining:
Australia,  Cameroon,  Honduras,  Papua  New 
Guinea, Paraguay, Tonga, Vanuatu
Draft  resolution  A/71/L.21  was  adopted  by  153 
votes to 7, with 7 abstentions (resolution 71/23).
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
speakers in explanation of vote, I would like to remind 
delegations that explanations of vote are limited to 10 
minutes and should be made by delegations from their 
seats.
Mr.  Sandoval  Mendiolea  (Mexico)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): My delegation wishes to speak in explanation 
of vote concerning resolution 71/21, entitled “Division 
for Palestinian Rights of the Secretariat”. 
Mexico  recognizes  the  role  that  must  be  played 
by the Organization to raise awareness and support at 
the international level for the rights of the Palestinian 
people  and  the  urgency  of  achieving  a  peaceful 
settlement to the question of Palestine on the basis of 
international law and resolutions of the United Nations. 
Mexico nevertheless wishes to stress the importance of 
16-40731
27/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
making more efficient and rational use of the resources 
of the Division for Palestinian Rights of the Secretariat 
in carrying out its functions.
The  Government  of  Mexico  reiterates  its  support 
for  the  self-determination  of  the  Palestinian  people 
and  its  search  for  a  comprehensive,  just  and  lasting 
settlement  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  so  as  to 
realize the two-State solution that permits both parties 
to  live  within  secure  and  internationally  recognized 
borders.
Mr. Teo (Singapore): I have the honour to speak in 
explanation of vote following the adoption of resolutions 
71/20 through 71/23.
Singapore  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  71/20, 
entitled, “Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable 
Rights of the Palestinian People”, on the understanding 
that  the  reference  in  paragraph  2  to  the  achievement 
of  the  two-State  solution  on  the  basis  of  the  pre-1967 
borders should be interpreted in the same manner as set 
out in paragraph 1 of resolution 71/23, entitled, “Peaceful 
settlement of the question of Palestine”, namely, de by 
side in peace and security within recognized borders, 
based on the pre-1967 borders.
Mr.  Galbavý  (Slovakia):  I  am  speaking 
in 
explanation  of  vote  on  resolution  71/23,  entitled, 
“Peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine”.  I 
have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union (EU). 
The EU wishes to thank the Palestinian delegation 
for  the  successful  outcome  of  our  negotiations  on 
a  number  of  resolutions  on  which  action  was  taken 
by  the  General  Assembly.  As  an  outcome  of  those 
negotiations,  the  EU  confirms  its  consolidated  voting 
pattern on those resolutions.
At this time, we would like to place on record that, 
with  regard  to  all  resolutions  that  are  adopted  during 
the  seventy-first  session  of  the  General  Assembly, 
the  European  Union  and  its  member  States  consider 
that  whenever  the  term  “Palestinian  Government”  is 
mentioned,  this  refers  to  the  Palestinian  Authority. 
Furthermore, the use of the term “Palestine” in any of 
those resolutions cannot be construed as recognition of 
a State of Palestine, and its use is without prejudice to 
the individual positions of the Member States on that 
issue, and hence on the question of the validity of an 
accession  to  the  conventions  and  treaties  mentioned 
therein. We also point out that the European Union as 
a  whole  has  not  expressed  a  legal  qualification  with 
regard  to  the  term  “forced  displacement”,  which  is 
used in a number of draft resolutions submitted under 
agenda items 38 and 50.
Some  of  the  resolutions  adopted  today  also  refer 
to  the  holy  sites  in  Jerusalem.  The  EU  is  concerned 
about the worrying developments in that regard and the 
recurrent violent clashes at the Temple Mount/Al-Haram 
Al-Sharif.  The  EU  recalls  the  special  significance  of 
the  holy  sites  and  calls  for  upholding  the  status  quo 
put  in  place  in  1976  for  the  Temple  Mount/Al-Haram 
Al-Sharif  in  line  with  previous  understandings  and 
respect  to  Jordan’s  special  role.  The  EU  stresses  the 
need  for  language  on  the  holy  sites  of  Jerusalem  to 
reflect  their  importance  and  historical  significance 
for  the  three  monotheistic  religions  and  to  respect 
religious and cultural sensitivities The EU recalls that 
the terminology used in the resolutions does not imply 
a change of its sense with regard to the Temple Mount/
Al-Haram Al-Sharif/.
Mr.  Sanabria  de  Montiel  (Paraguay)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  My  delegation  would  like  to  make  an 
explanation of vote on resolutions 71/20 and 71/21. 
The  Republic  of  Paraguay  firmly  believes  that 
dialogue  and  direct  and  good-faith  negotiations 
between  the  parties  are  the  only  path  to  achieve  a 
final,  just  and  lasting  peace.  That  is  why  we  call  for 
the  resumption  of  the  negotiating  process  and  for  the 
international  community  to  support  such  efforts.  The 
Republic  of  Paraguay  reaffirms  the  need  to  achieve 
a  just  settlement  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, the 
relevant resolutions of the Security Council and other 
relevant  decisions  whereby  two  democratic  States, 
Israel and Palestine, live side by side within secure and 
internationally recognized borders.
The  Republic  of  Paraguay  believes  that  these 
resolutions will not contribute to the peaceful settlement 
of the conflict between the parties, and that is why it 
abstained in the voting.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 35.
28/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
A/71/PV.50
Agenda item 34 (continued)
Draft resolutions (A/71/L.8 and A/71/L.22)
The Acting President: Members are reminded that 
they will have an opportunity to explain their votes on 
the two draft resolutions before and after action is taken 
on each.
We turn first to draft resolution A/71/L.8, entitled 
“The Syrian Golan”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of draft resolution A/71/L.8, 
the following countries have become sponsors: Brunei 
Darussalam and Malaysia.
The Acting President: A recorded vote  has  been 
requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, 
Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State 
of), Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cabo 
Verde,  Cambodia,  Chad,  Chile,  China,  Colombia, 
Comoros,  Costa  Rica,  Cuba,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia, 
Gambia,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Malaysia, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico, 
Mongolia,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, 
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saint 
Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa, 
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Singapore,  Solomon 
Islands, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-
Leste,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Israel,  Marshall 
Canada, 
Islands,  Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Palau,  United  States  of 
America
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon, 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Greece,  Honduras,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland, 
Italy,  Japan,  Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Montenegro, Nauru, 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway,  Panama, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain, 
Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav Republic 
of Macedonia, Togo, Ukraine, United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Vanuatu
Draft resolution A/71/L.8 was adopted by 103 votes 
to 6, with 56 abstentions (resolution 71/24).
The  Acting  President:  We  now  turn  to  draft 
resolution A/71/L.22, entitled “Jerusalem”. 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution  A/71/L.22,  the  following  countries  have 
become sponsors: Plurinational State of Bolivia, Brunei 
Darussalam, Malaysia, Mali and Viet Nam.
like 
The Acting President: A recorded vote  has  been 
requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour: 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, 
Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize,  Benin, 
Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Bulgaria, Burundi, Cambodia, Chad, Chile, China, 
Colombia,  Comoros,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Cuba, 
Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican 
16-40731
29/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea, 
Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gambia, 
Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, 
Japan, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, 
Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand, 
Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman, 
Pakistan,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands,  South  Africa,  Spain, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-
Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates, 
United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay, 
Uzbekistan,  Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of), 
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Canada,  Israel,  Marshall 
Islands,  Micronesia 
(Federated States of), Nauru, Palau, United States 
of America
Abstaining:
Australia,  Cameroon,  Guatemala,  Honduras, 
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Vanuatu
Draft  resolution  A/71/L.22  was  adopted  by  149 
votes to 7, with 8 abstentions (resolution 71/25).
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
speakers in explanation of vote, I would like to remind 
delegations that explanations of vote are limited to 10 
minutes and should be made by delegations from their 
seats.
Mr.  Vieira  (Brazil)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  delegations  of 
Argentina and Brazil to explain our votes. 
As  we  have  done  in  previous  years  in  regard  to 
the resolution concerning the Syrian Golan, which the 
Assembly  has  just  adopted  (resolution  71/24),  Brazil 
and Argentina voted in favour of the resolution because 
we believe that its fundamental nature is related to the 
unlawfulness  of  the  acquisition  of  territory  by  force. 
Article  2,  paragraph  4  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations prohibits the threat or use of force against the 
territorial integrity of a State. 
At the same time, I would like to clarify the position 
of  our  delegations  with  regard  to  paragraph  6  of  the 
resolution.  Our  vote  does  not  prejudge  the  content  of 
that  paragraph,  in  particular  the  reference  to  the  line 
of 4 June 1967. Brazil and Argentina believe that it is 
important to advance in the search for a solution for the 
Israeli-Syrian track of the conflict in the Middle East 
in  order  to  end  the  occupation  of  the  Golan  Heights. 
Therefore, on behalf of the Governments of Brazil and 
Argentina, we again stress the importance of resuming 
negotiations to find a definitive solution to the situation 
in  the  Syrian  Golan,  in  accordance  with  Security 
Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and the 
principle of land for peace.
Mr.  Erdman  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  remains  profoundly  troubled  by  the 
submission of a disproportionate number of one-sided 
General  Assembly  resolutions  designed  to  condemn 
Israel. That one-sided approach damages the prospects 
for peace by undermining trust between parties and the 
kind of international support that is critical to achieving 
peace. All parties to the conflict have responsibilities 
for  ending  it,  and  we  are  disappointed  that  United 
Nations Members continually single out Israel without 
acknowledging  the  responsibilities  and  difficult  steps 
that must be taken on all sides. It is manifestly unjust 
that the United Nations, an institution founded on the 
idea  that  all  nations  should  be  treated  equally,  is  so 
often used by Member States to treat Israel unequally.
The  United  States  votes  against  one-sided 
resolutions  in  the  General  Assembly,  especially  those 
that renew the mandates of committees that use valuable 
United Nations resources, because we believe that they 
are  counterproductive  to  the  goal  of  achieving  peace 
that  we  all  share.  Of  these  annual  resolutions,  three 
United  Nations  bodies  in  particular  reflect  the  bias, 
redundancy and unnecessary cost of such resolutions: 
the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights 
of the Palestinian People, the Division for Palestinian 
Rights  and  the  Special  Committee  to  Investigate 
Israeli  Practices  Affecting  the  Human  Rights  of  the 
Palestinian  People  and  Other  Arabs  of  the  Occupied 
30/32
16-40731
30/11/2016 
A/71/PV.50
Territories. Those bodies waste limited United Nations 
resources, costing approximately $6.1 million in 2015, 
but they do nothing to contribute to peace in the region 
and they perpetuate the perception of a United Nations 
that unfairly focuses on Israel. 
The  United  States  remains  firmly  committed  to 
advancing a two-State solution. We continue to urge all 
sides to take steps to stop violence, improve conditions 
on the ground in the West Bank and Gaza, and move 
the diplomatic process forward. We strongly condemn 
all acts of violence and terrorism directed at unarmed 
civilians,  including  stabbings,  shootings,  arson  and 
vehicular attacks, as well as the statements glorifying 
them.
The  United  States  will  support  Israel’s  right 
to  defend  innocent  civilians  against  terrorism,  and 
we  mourn  any  loss  of  innocent  life.  It  is  critical  that 
every possible effort be made to show restraint and to 
de-escalate  tensions.  I  would  like  to  reiterate  that  the 
United  States  has  consistently  opposed  every  effort 
to  delegitimize  Israel  or  to  undermine  its  security  at 
the United Nations, and we will continue to do so with 
vigour. 
However, our continued opposition to the resolution 
on  Israeli  settlements  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory,  including  Jerusalem  and  occupied  Golan, 
should  not  be  understood  to  mean  that  we  support 
settlement  activity.  On  the  contrary,  we  view  Israeli 
settlement activity as illegitimate and corrosive to the 
cause of peace. Israeli settlement activity threatens the 
viability  of  a  two-State  solution.  It  also  moves  Israel 
ever closer to cementing a one-State reality of perpetual 
occupation,  which  is  fundamentally  inconsistent  with 
Israel’s future as a Jewish and democratic State. 
the  condemnation  of 
While  the  United  States  remains  firmly  opposed 
to  Israeli  settlement  activity,  that  does  not  justify  the 
repetitive and one-sided General Assembly resolutions 
facilitating 
Israel.  Those 
resolutions set back our collective efforts to advance a 
peaceful resolution of the conflict between the Israelis 
and  the  Palestinians.  In  addition,  they  damage  the 
institutional  credibility  of  the  United  Nations,  which 
should be a concern for us all.
Such one-sided resolutions will not advance peace. 
Only  hard  choices  made  in  the  context  of  bilateral 
negotiations will do that. The cause of peace would be 
well served by a more balanced approach by the General 
Assembly to the conflict.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of vote after the voting.
Mr.    Mounzer  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): My delegation would like to express its sincere 
appreciation  to  the  General  Assembly  for  adopting 
every year since 1981, when Israel decided to annex the 
Syrian Golan, a resolution on the matter. We thank the 
Assembly for adopting resolution 71/24, as well as the 
other  resolutions  on  the  question  of  Palestine  and  the 
situation in the Middle East. My country would like to 
thank all the delegations that decided to co-sponsor the 
resolution  on  the  Syrian  Golan,  as  well  as  those  who 
voted in favour of it.
The  majority  of  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations have continued to support the resolutions, which 
reflect their commitment to the purposes and principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations, in particular the 
rejection of foreign occupation and support for our full 
right  to  recover  all  our  land  occupied  by  Israel  since 
1967.  The  vote  in  favour  of  those  resolutions  sends  a 
clear international message to Israel, namely, that the 
killings,  the  expansion,  the  settlement  activities,  the 
imposition of a fait accompli and the annexation of land 
by  force  are  all  rejected.  Those  practices  run  counter 
to  international  principles,  including  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations and the Fourth Geneva Convention 
of  1949.  Therefore,  all  those  practices  will  always  be 
met with rejection by every party that seeks to uphold 
international law and rejects foreign occupation and the 
acquisition of lands taken by force.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the Observer State of Palestine.
Ms.  Abdelhady-Nasser  (Palestine):  On  behalf  of 
the delegation of the State of Palestine, I wish to express 
our  sincere  thanks  and  appreciation  to  all  Member 
States that voted in favour of the important resolutions 
that the Assembly has just adopted and that adhere in 
word and deed to the legal, political and humanitarian 
principles and rules enshrined therein.
The  General  Assembly’s  adoption  of 
these 
resolutions, once again by an overwhelming majority, is 
a reflection of the long-standing international consensus 
regarding  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  the 
fundamental requirements for achieving a just, lasting, 
comprehensive  and  peaceful  solution  to  the  question 
of  Palestine  in  all  its  aspects,  without  exception. 
Those  resolutions  are  also  a  clear  reaffirmation  of 
the international consensus on the two-State solution, 
16-40731
31/32
A/71/PV.50 
30/11/2016
based  on  the  1967  borders,  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant  Security  Council  and  General  Assembly 
resolutions, the Madrid principles and the Arab Peace 
Initiative — a solution that is now in grave peril owing 
to  the  violations,  destructive  actions  and  rejectionism 
of Israel, the occupying Power. Lastly, these resolutions 
answer  firmly,  clearly  and 
the  false 
assertions,  distortions  and  negative  discourse  that  we 
have heard in this Hall from the Israeli delegation.
thoroughly 
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  express  the  profound 
gratitude of the delegation of the State of Palestine, on 
behalf  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  their  leadership, 
for all of the compelling expressions of support to the 
Palestinian  people  and  solidarity  with  them  and  the 
just  cause  of  Palestine  in  recent  days  and  during  the 
many long years. We experience despair at this ongoing 
injustice,  as  we  mark  yet  another  Day  of  Solidarity 
and  as  we  approach  the  painful  anniversaries  of  the 
coming  year,  including,  inconceivably,  the  fiftieth 
year  of  Israel’s  illegal  foreign  occupation  of  our  land 
and oppression of our people and denial of our rights. 
The deep despair and hopelessness among our people 
is  increasing,  yet  the  support  and  solidarity  of  the 
international  community,  from  countries  and  peoples 
all around the world, help us to remain hopeful that we 
will indeed one day overcome the current injustice and 
realize our freedom and rights in our own independent 
and  sovereign  State  of  Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem 
as its capital, and finally achieve peace and coexistence 
between Palestine and Israel, despite the fact that that 
prospect seems very distant at this moment. We renew 
our thanks and appreciation to all delegations for their 
principled support.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 34.
Programme of work
The  Acting  Pesident:  I  would  like  to  consult 
members  regarding  an  extension  for  the  work  of  the 
Second Committee. 
Members  will  recall  that,  at  its  48th  plenary 
meeting,  on  21  November,  the  General  Assembly 
agreed  to  extend  the  work  of  the  Second  Committee 
to  Wednesday,  30  November.  However,  I  have  been 
informed  by  the  Chair  of  the  Second  Committee  that 
the  Committee  requests  an  additional  extension  of 
its  work  to  Friday,  9  December,  in  view  of  the  fact 
that  such  an  extension  will  be  needed  to  conclude 
negotiations on the draft resolution on the quadrennial 
comprehensive  policy  review  of  operational  activities 
for the development of the United Nations system.
May I therefore take it that the General Assembly 
agrees  to  extend  the  work  of  the  Second  Committee 
until Friday, 9 December 2016?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m.
32/32
16-40731
