United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
52nd plenary meeting
Tuesday, 6 December 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.52
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 11
Sport for development and peace
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/179)
The  President:  The  history  of  sport  traces  back 
to  ancient  civilizations.  Our  ancestors  played  sport 
to  impress  the  gods.  They  played  to  mark  the  arrival 
of  seasons  and  to  celebrate  peace  after  conflict.  By 
engaging  in  healthy  competition,  they  built  physical 
strength  and  fostered  community  spirit.  Indeed, 
the  ancient  Greek  tradition  of  the  Olympic  Truce,  a 
temporary  ceasefire  to  enable  athletes  and  spectators 
to travel and compete safely at games, was premised on 
the recognition of the importance of sport in building 
peace and goodwill.
Across  the  world,  sport  has  been  used  time  and 
again  to  advance  peace  and  reconciliation.  Who  can 
forget  the  iconic  image  of  Nelson  Mandela  holding 
up the 1995 Rugby World Cup and using that moment 
to  unite  the  people  of  South  Africa  in  the  wake  of 
apartheid?  To  this  day  —  whether  we  are  watching 
children  kicking  around  homemade  footballs,  or  our 
athletic heroes breaking records or the determined look 
of  Paralympians  competing  or  the  refugee  Olympic 
team entering the Rio de Janeiro stadium — sports have 
the power to transcend borders and inspire us all.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
recognizes  the  importance  of  sport  as  an  enabler  of 
sustainable development in peace through its promotion 
of tolerance and respect, the empowerment of women and 
young people, and its contribution to health, education 
and social inclusion. Sport is a tool for driving forward 
the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. 
We see its application in the Goals related to the health 
and  well-being  and  the  empowerment  of  women  and 
girls  and  the  achievement  of  peaceful  and  inclusive 
societies. We see it in helping to build the confidence, 
strength and capacities of young persons, persons with 
disabilities and minority communities.
The  General  Assembly’s  2013  decision  to  declare 
6  April  the  annual  International  Day  of  Sport  for 
Development and Peace elevated global awareness of the 
role of sport in peace and development. I congratulate 
the  Group  of  Friends  of  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace  for  its  work  in  that  regard,  and  for  promoting 
the importance of sport more broadly. I also commend 
the  United  Nations  Office  on  Sport  for  Development 
and Peace for its work to promote sport as a means for 
furthering  the  goals  of  the  United  Nations,  including 
through  the  United  Nations  Action  Plan  on  Sport  for 
Development and Peace.
The  Office’s  priority  areas  of  conflict  resolution, 
gender  equality,  the  development  of  Africa  and  the 
inclusion  of  persons  with  disabilities  and  youth 
development  are  particularly 
important.  Nelson 
Mandela said,
“Sport can create hope, where once there was only 
despair. It is more powerful than Governments in 
breaking down racial barriers. It laughs in the face 
of all types of discrimination.”
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-41516 (E)
*1641516*
A/71/PV.52 
06/12/2016
Today  we  celebrate  sport  for  its  role  in  driving 
sustainable  development,  for  promoting  goodwill  and 
understanding and for its push for a more peaceful, just, 
inclusive and sustainable world.
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  Today, 
as  the  General  Assembly  considers  agenda  item  11, 
on  sport  for  development  and  peace,  I  would  like  to 
take a moment to remember the victims of the recent 
plane  crash  that  plunged  Brazil  into  mourning  as  the 
Chapecoense  football  team  was  preparing  to  play  in 
its first Copa Sudamericana final. As pride gave way 
to  disarray  and  celebration  gave  way  to  sorrow,  the 
expressions of solidarity and sympathy that came from 
all continents are symbolic of the most noble sentiments 
that  sport  can  foster,  and  of  our  commitment  to  the 
universal language of sport and our gratitude to those 
who promote its values. The gesture of awarding that 
devastated team the cup is symbolic of the generosity 
of sport. We offer our Brazilian friends, who hosted the 
thirty-first Olympic games and the fifteenth Paralympic 
Games in Rio de Janeiro in August and September, our 
condolences during this terrible ordeal.
After  the  adoption  of  resolution  69/6,  in  2014, 
on  sport  as  a  means  to  promote  education,  health, 
development and peace, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development,  adopted  last  year,  designated  sport  as 
an  important  element  of  sustainable  development. 
The  political  declaration 
the  2030 
Agenda  recognized  the  growing  contribution  of  sport 
to  development  and  peace  through  the  tolerance  and 
respect it advocates, to the empowerment of women and 
girls, individuals and groups, and to the attainment of 
health, education and social inclusion objectives.
that  prefaced 
The  values  that  sport  upholds  can  be  seen  in  all 
aspects  of  our  lives  through  all  of  the  benefits  that  it 
provides  individuals  and  communities.  Our  collective 
efforts to promote sport in the Organization have been 
successful. In a world full of danger and violence, any 
initiative  that  calls  for  unity  and  social  cohesion  is 
precious. We must harness the full potential of sport for 
the three pillars of sustainable development.
Since 2008, the Special Adviser to the Secretary-
General  on  Sport 
for  Development  and  Peace, 
Mr.  Wilfried  Lemke,  has  consistently  revitalized  and 
strengthened  the  role  of  sport  in  the  Organization’s 
agenda.  As  his  mandate  comes 
to  an  end,  we 
wholeheartedly  thank  him,  along  with  the  Secretary-
General,  for  his  personal  commitment  to  this  issue 
and  for  having  promoted  the  culture  of  sport  at  the 
United Nations.
Promoting sport for development and peace, as we 
have been doing since 2010 as one of the co-Chairs of 
the  Group  of  Friends  of  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace, has convinced me of the extraordinary potential 
of  sport  to  bring  people  together,  narrow  differences 
and foster a culture of peace among the youth — which 
is  so  important  to  Mr.  Lemke.  I  would  also  like  to 
thank  him  for  his  generosity,  his  spontaneity  and  his 
perseverance. He embodies the values of sport and has 
made  youth  his  priority.  He  successfully  established 
Youth Leadership Camps. In those camps, the Special 
Adviser has prioritized equality among young boys and 
girls and restored dignity to persons with disabilities. 
We  are  therefore  extremely  grateful  to  the  Special 
Adviser  to  the  Secretary-General.  In  this  tribute, 
we  join  all  of  those  who  have  worked  by  his  side  in 
the  United  Nations  Office  on  Sport  for  Development 
and Peace.
The  draft  resolution  that  is  to  be  introduced  at  a 
later  date  (A/71/L.38)  calls  for  renewing  the  mandate 
of the Special Adviser to ensure that sport contributes 
to  achieving 
for  Sustainable 
Development  and  preserving  the  legacy  of  more  than 
10 years of work.
the  2030  Agenda 
Without  question,  the  role  of  sport  in  the  United 
Nations  agenda  has  benefited  fully  from  the  support 
of  the  International  Olympic  Committee  (IOC),  even 
before  it  was  granted  observer  status  by  the  General 
Assembly, in 2009. While the resolution on the Olympic 
Day  (resolution  49/29),  which  dates  from  the  forty-
ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  strengthened 
the links between the IOC and the United Nations, its 
formalization  is  due  to  the  leadership  of  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon,  IOC  President  Thomas  Bach 
and, before him, IOC President Rogge. We welcome the 
partnership and are grateful for its efforts.
Agenda 2030 is our road map. Monaco has teamed up 
with an innovative project centred on sport through the 
Sustainable Development Goals Fund in an inter-agency 
mechanism. The project will be launched in 2017 and 
will  involve  athletes,  teams  and  sports  institutions  in 
collaboration  with  United  Nations  agencies.  We  hope 
that  other  partners  will  join  that  promising  initiative. 
The Fund aims to convey the values of sport, namely, 
team spirit, a sense of community, tolerance, respect, 
commitment and the importance of a healthy lifestyle. 
2/13 
16-41516
06/12/2016 
A/71/PV.52
It  will  work  on  school  absenteeism,  exclusion  and 
reducing juvenile delinquency, while addressing sport 
and education holistically.
As  is  well  known,  sport  is  deeply  rooted  in 
Monegasque culture. Local and global sporting events 
aimed at the youth of the Principality and the greatest 
world champions are organized in Monaco throughout 
the  year.  As  such,  sport  forms  a  major  part  of  the 
Prince’s governmental policy.
As it does every year on the occasion of Universal 
Children’s Day, on 20 November, the non-governmental 
organization Children & Future organized the no-finish-
line  solidarity  race  where  participants  covered  the 
distance  from  the  Earth  to  the  Moon,  by  walking  or 
running, day and night for eight days. It is a symbolic 
distance  that  was  not  only  achieved,  but  surpassed, 
by  the  participants.  Through  their  participation  in 
the  eight-day  race,  participants  raised  €400,000  for 
Monaco’s  international  cooperation  and  development 
programmes.
Furthermore, the ninth Peace and Sport Forum took 
place in Monaco a few days ago, with 600 participants 
from  70  countries.  A  march  for  peace  preceded 
the  opening  of  the  Forum,  which  brought  together 
His  Serene  Highness  Prince  Albert  II  and  Founder 
President  Joël  Bouzou,  three  2015  Nobel  Peace  Prize 
laureates  from  Tunisia,  decision-makers  in  the  field 
of  sport  and  the  Forum’s  Champions  of  Peace,  who 
promote peace through sport and the public. The theme 
of the ninth edition was “Peace in action: changing the 
world through sport”. One of the five plenary meetings 
was  devoted  to  the  theme  “Diplomacy  through  sport: 
breaking  down  barriers”,  which  is  what  we  must  do 
here each day.
representations  and 
While highlighting the necessary cooperation among 
diplomatic 
intergovernmental 
organizations  involved  in  the  movement  for  peace 
through  sport,  the  Forum  provided  a  framework  for 
two  meetings:  the  Council  of  Europe  held  an  official 
seminar  on  its  Convention  on  the  Manipulation  of 
Sports Competitions, and UNESCO held a preparatory 
meeting  for  the  tenth  International  Conference  of 
Ministers and Senior Officials responsible for Physical 
Education and Sport, to be held from 5 to 7 July 2017 in 
Kazan, Russian Federation.
In addition to its social network campaign “White 
card for peace”, the Peace and Sport Forum developed 
a handbook of appropriate practices for outdoor sports 
some years ago. The aim of that manual is to make sport 
available to all, especially children who lack access to 
sports  facilities.  What  we  must  keep  in  mind,  above 
and beyond the extraordinary images transmitted to us 
from global events such as the Olympic Games and the 
many World Cups, including rugby and football, is the 
fact that a nice stadium is not necessary for practicing 
sport. Furthermore, we intend to share some innovative 
practices  by  inviting  the  Peace  and  Sport  Forum  and 
the United Nations next year to celebrate the upcoming 
International Day of Sport for Development and Peace, 
in April 2017.
In conclusion, it is unfortunate that the biennial draft 
resolution will not be adopted today, but I am confident 
that, with the participants’ goodwill in the negotiations, 
the draft resolution will soon be adopted by consensus 
by  the  General  Assembly  —  which  I  welcome.  It  is 
something that we must not fail to achieve.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  Russia  highly  values  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  strengthening  international  cooperation  in 
sport,  as  that  contributes  to  overcoming  inter-ethnic 
and  interreligious  strife,  while  strengthening  mutual 
understanding  among  nations  and  achieving  harmony 
among civilizations.
Sport has an enormous potential to unite. In today’s 
difficult  environment,  it  is  more  important  than  ever 
to  maintain  efforts  to  transform  sport  into  a  tool  for 
achieving  tolerance,  solidarity  and  multiculturalism 
and a driving force for comprehensive socioeconomic 
development.  Our  country  has  always  attached  the 
highest importance to those issues.
We have extensive experience in holding large-scale 
international sports competitions. In preparing for the 
Olympic and Paralympic Games in Sochi in 2014, Russia 
built  unique  sports  facilities  and  created  a  modern 
transportation and resort infrastructure. In addition to 
powerful socioeconomic effects, those Games became 
a  major  impulse  for  the  further  development  of  mass 
sports  in  our  country.  In  recent  years,  the  number  of 
those  who  regularly  participate  in  athletic  activities 
increased by nearly 35 per cent.
Today Russia faces an equally ambitious challenge 
in  preparing  for  and  hosting  the  football  World  Cup 
in  2018.  We  fought  openly  for  the  right  to  hold  that 
major  competition,  with  the  desire  to  promote  that 
most popular sport. We are doing everything to ensure 
that the championship will be held at the highest level 
16-41516
3/13
A/71/PV.52 
06/12/2016
possible. The scale of the task before us is greater than 
any other project ever carried out on Russian territory. 
A  comprehensive  programme  is  in  place  to  prepare 
for  the  championship,  which  currently  includes  the 
construction  of  269  sites.  In  addition  to  122  sports 
facilities,  such  as  stadiums  and  training  fields,  that 
also  includes  transportation  facilities  and  aviation, 
housing and energy infrastructure and hotel and health-
care infrastructure.
In  recent  years,  we  have  witnessed  a  dangerous 
trend of politics interfering in sports, turning it into an 
instrument  for  creating  negative  images  of  countries 
and  peoples.  Great  political  pressure  has  been  put  on 
the International Olympic Committee and international 
athletic  federations.  In  essence,  that  is  an  attack  on 
the  fundamental  principles  of  the  international  sport 
movement,  as  well  as  its  independence  and  integrity. 
For  instance,  in  the  run-up  to  the  Games  in  Sochi, 
we  experienced  the  full  force  of  the  anti-Russian 
propaganda  machine,  which  resulted  not  only  in 
baseless accusations, but in falsified information.
The  unprecedented  decision  to  ban  the  entire 
Russian Paralympic team from the Paralympic Games 
in Rio de Janeiro in 2016 was also extremely politicized 
and  cynical.  The  targeted  campaign  against  our 
athletes was the embodiment of double standards and 
the  principle  of  collective  responsibility.  No  specific 
evidence-based charges were ever advanced against our 
athletes. They were banned simply because they were 
part of the Russian team. As a result, they were not the 
only ones who suffered, but it was in essence a blow to 
the prestige of world sport in general, as well as to the 
Olympic and Paralympic Movements.
Russia 
is  open 
that  entails 
to  cooperation 
in  combating 
doping.  We  have  been  conducting  the  appropriate 
investigations  into  the  relevant  allegations  and  intend 
to ensure that our national anti-doping system achieves 
maximum effectiveness. We currently have in place a 
national  anti-doping  plan,  which  includes  tightening 
legislation 
including 
criminal responsibility, for the use and distribution of 
doping drugs, as well as for putting pressure on athletes 
to use such drugs. We also have an independent public 
anti-doping  commission.  In  order  to  ensure  the  full 
independence  of  our  anti-doping  structures,  we  are 
making  relevant  changes  to  the  Russian  anti-doping 
agency, including increasing its financing. That work is 
being carried out in active cooperation with the relevant 
International 
international  organizations  and 
responsibility, 
the 
Olympic  Committee.  We  are  also  instilling  a  public 
culture promoting the total rejection of doping in our 
country. Those major efforts will continue in Russia.
However,  there  is  also  obviously  a  pressing  need 
to  establish  whether  or  not  everything  is  indeed  so 
rosy  outside  Russia.  In  that  regard,  it  is  unacceptable 
to continue to ignore the information that has become 
public  knowledge  in  the  sport  world  that  anti-doping 
bodies  tacitly  approved  the  use  of  powerful  drugs 
by  athletes  who,  over  many  years,  have  won  major 
international championships and made tens of millions 
of  dollars.  The  claims  that  they  were  suffering  from 
serious illnesses contradicts common sense. All of that 
appears particularly hypocritical against the backdrop 
of the ban on our paralympic athletes simply based on 
suspicions.  That  can  hardly  be  seen  as  being  in  line 
with the principles of equality and fair play. We intend 
to discuss the matter further in United Nations forums. 
The  international  anti-doping  system  must  become 
transparent and ensure the unconditional equality of all 
athletes.  Overall,  there  is  a  need  to  develop  common 
international doping-control criteria. Not just athletes, 
but the public must have access to information related 
to doping testing.
Sport has been rightly called the universal language 
of  human  communication.  We  must  do  everything  to 
ensure  clean  sport  and  make  it  completely  open  and 
removed from politics, so that sport ideals and values 
can bring countries and peoples together.
(spoke 
(Cuba) 
Mrs.  Sánchez  Rodríguez 
in 
Spanish): We would like to express our gratitude for the 
report (A/71/179) submitted by the Secretary-General, 
which reviews the actions carried out during a two-year 
period in the United Nations system for the promotion 
of  sport  for  the  benefit  of  sustainable  development 
and  peace.  We  believe  that  the  initiatives  carried  out 
have been positive and again reflect the fact that sport 
constitutes an excellent tool for promoting integration, 
social inclusion and development.
Cuba has given popular sport development a place 
in the quality of life of the population; its practice is free 
for all citizens. Guaranteeing the enjoyment of sport as 
a constitutional right for all Cubans is one of the most 
relevant  achievements  of  the  Cuban  revolution  in  the 
area of human rights. Since the triumph of the Cuban 
revolution,  in  1959,  and  under  the  leadership  of  Fidel 
Castro Ruz, sport in our country stopped being exclusive 
and  became  a  right  for  all  people.  For  the  realization 
4/13 
16-41516
06/12/2016 
A/71/PV.52
of that right, we have established a pedagogical system 
that incorporates physical education as an integral part 
of a person’s education at all its stages. We are working 
to  achieve  sport  preparation  from  early  childhood, 
which allows us to foster the talents of those who stand 
out  as  future  athletes,  which  enhances  and  elevates 
the levels achieved by our country in the international 
sport arena.
For  years,  the  Cuban  sporting  movement,  headed 
by  the  Cuban  Olympic  Committee  and  the  National 
Institution of Sport, Physical Education and Recreation, 
has volunteered its impartial collaboration with various 
countries of the South through the exchange of coaches, 
instructors  and  trainers,  so  that,  in  their  modest  way 
and  within  the  framework  of  bilateral  agreements, 
it  could  transfer  innovative  sport-training  methods, 
thereby contributing to improving sporting results and 
the popular practice of sport, as well as developing great 
bonds of brotherhood and friendship among peoples.
We have also strengthened international cooperation 
by establishing for the countries of the South the Institute 
of  Sport  Medicine  and  the  Anti-Doping  Laboratory, 
with  the  goal  of  contributing  to  the  fight  against  the 
scourge of drugs, as well as the education and culture 
of athletes and trainers. Furthermore, Cuba founded the 
International School for Physical Education and Sport, 
which is dedicated to training professionals, whose key 
value  is  solidarity,  which  is  capable  of  transforming 
physical education and sport in their countries.
Cuba  reiterates  its  decisions  to  continue  sharing 
our  principal  richness:  the  human  capital  created  by 
the Cuban revolution and the best experiences that we 
have.  The  presence  of  Cuban  solidarity  in  the  world, 
with coaches and physical education teachers, sustains 
the  prestige  of  Cuban  sport.  Cuba  has  supported  the 
sporting  achievements  of  many  countries  and  will 
continue doing so to the greatest extent possible.
All of those goals, which have been achieved at the 
national level through cooperation, have been possible 
thanks to the will of the Government and the citizens 
of Cuba. Notwithstanding the efforts aimed at the full 
realization of that right, various obstacles have hampered 
progress during the more than 50 years of the genocidal 
policy  of  the  economic,  financial  and  commercial 
blockade  imposed  on  Cuba,  because  of  which  Cuban 
sporting institutions have been prevented from gaining 
access to United States market installations, equipment 
and sportswear.
At  the  same  time,  we  oppose  athletic  activity 
being  undertaken  solely  as  a  means  to  make  money 
and,  as  a  consequence,  we  denounce  the  theft  of 
sporting talents, of which developing countries are the 
victims. In that regard, we appeal for the fostering of 
international  cooperation  and  solidarity.  We  are  also 
promoting  projects  in  the  areas  of  education,  culture, 
sport and health, instead of spending billions of dollars 
on armaments. That money could do a lot for the right 
to development of billions of people in the world with 
relatively  few  resources;  it  simply  requires  sincere 
political will.
Finally,  Cuba  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the 
promotion  of  sport,  both  for  the  Cuban  people  and 
for  those  brotherly  nations  that  need  our  modest 
contribution and experience in that area.
Mr.  Stone  (Australia):  Australia  is  committed  to 
the principles of sport for development and peace and to 
the role that the United Nations can play in furthering 
those principles.
We  would  like  to  thank  Monaco  and  Tunisia 
for  co-chairing  the  Group  of  Friends  of  Sport  for 
Development  and  Peace  and  for  their  facilitation  of 
the related biennial draft resolution (A/71/L.38), which 
Australia is pleased to co-sponsor. We would also like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Special  Adviser 
to  the  Secretary-General  on  Sport  for  Development 
and  Peace,  Mr.  Wilfried  Lemke,  for  all  that  he  has 
done to promote the United Nations work on sport for 
development and peace over the past eight years.
Sport’s popularity, its capacity as a communication 
platform and its ability to connect people, both within 
and  between  communities,  make  it  a  tool  that  can 
be  used  to  meet  a  range  of  development  challenges, 
including 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
Australia is committed to delivering an effective sport-
for-development programme, one of four goals outlined 
in the Australian sport-diplomacy strategy launched in 
June  2015.  During  the  past  five  years,  the  Australian 
Government  has  committed  more  than  $50  million 
to  sport  for  development  programmes  in  the  Asia-
Pacific region.
Australia’s 
sport-for-development  programmes 
support  communities  at  the  grass-roots  level  through 
collaboration  between  Australian  sport  organizations 
and 
their  Asia-Pacific  counterparts.  The  sport-
for-development  programmes  focus  on  achieving 
positive  development  outcomes  by  addressing  risk 
16-41516
5/13
A/71/PV.52 
06/12/2016
factors  associated  with  non-communicable  diseases, 
particularly physical inactivity; supporting people with 
disabilities  through  inclusion  in  sport  by  challenging 
community  perceptions;  fostering  the  equality  of 
women  and  girls  by  showcasing  achievement  and 
challenging  gender  norms;  and 
improving  social 
cohesion by bringing people together.
Beyond  the  primary  goals  related  to  health, 
disability,  gender  and  peace,  Australian  sport-for-
development  programmes  make  a  strong  contribution 
to  related  sectors,  such  as  education,  leadership  and 
economic empowerment. Australia will continue to use 
its expertise in delivering inclusive community sports 
to make a positive impact in the region.
The  Pacific  Sports  Partnership  programme  works 
with 11 Australian sporting organizations across nine 
Pacific countries. In 2015-2016 the Pacific programmes 
engaged  more  than  350,000  people,  almost  half  of 
them  women  and  girls  and  more  than  3,000  of  them 
having  a  disability.  The  new  Asia  Sports  Partnership 
programme  works  with  18  countries,  and  strong 
participation  is  also  expected.  Australian  sport-for-
development programmes can contribute to improving 
health-related behaviour. One such example is the One 
Netball Pacific programme in Tonga and Samoa, where 
adult  sports  participants,  sports-development  officers 
and community members are working to increase their 
exercise  levels  and  improve  their  diets.  Our  sport-
for-development  programmes  are  also  contributing 
to  attitudinal  change  for,  and  about,  people  living 
with  disabilities,  with  sporting  participants  reporting 
that  they  receive  increased  respect  and  support  from 
communities and families.
Australia’s  table  tennis  programme  has  smashed 
down  barriers  and  assists  more  than  200  patients  in 
Kiribati’s only mental facility by promoting motivation, 
well-being and fitness through sport. Australian-funded 
activities are also a platform for harnessing community 
support around gender-equality issues, such as violence 
against  women.  The  Asia  and  Pacific  programmes 
highlight  women’s  abilities  and  achievements  and 
normalize  young  people’s  experience  of  women  in 
positions of power. Since June 2014, Australia’s sport-
for-development programmes have also increased their 
focus on social cohesion and peacebuilding, including 
in the aftermath of natural disasters, such as Cyclone 
Pam in Vanuatu and Cyclone Winston in Fiji. Australia 
helped to launch the Just Play Emergency programme in 
Fiji, bringing vital information to children about water 
and sanitation and allowing them to feel safe through the 
simple act of playing football together. Building on that 
success, new programmes in Asia support resilience in 
Sri Lanka through netball, access to quality inclusive 
sport  in  Afghanistan  through  cricket  and  community 
recovery through badminton in Nepal.
Mr. Amer (Israel): Israel is proud to be one of the 
sponsors of draft resolution A/71/L.38, which focuses 
on  the  transformative  and  unifying  power  of  sport. 
Sport can help build more inclusive societies, promote 
development and foster a future of peaceful coexistence. 
Sport also serves as a powerful tool to advance gender 
equality and empower women and girls.
As the report (A/71/179) of the Secretary-General 
shows,  sport  initiatives  have  a  positive  social  impact 
and  can  raise  awareness  of  environmental  issues 
and  disease  prevention,  promote  inclusiveness  for 
people  with  disabilities  and  improve  education  levels 
in schools.
This year we will mark the 120th anniversary of the 
revival of the Olympic Games. The goal of the Olympic 
Movement is to contribute to building a peaceful and 
better world. Sadly, that has not always been the case. 
During  the  1972  Olympic  Games  in  Munich,  on  the 
night of 5 September, eight armed terrorists from the 
Palestinian terrorist group Black September murdered 
11 members of the Israeli delegation. This year, after 44 
years,  the  International  Olympic  Committee  held  the 
first  memorial  service  for  the  victims  of  the  Munich 
massacre.  During  the  memorial,  the  President  of  the 
International Olympic Committee, Thomas Bach, said:
“We commemorate them because this was an attack 
not only on our fellow Olympians, but also an assault 
on the values that the Olympic Village stands for. 
It was an attack on the universal power of sport to 
unite all of humanity in peace and solidarity”.
That  tragic  event  is  a  warning  for  posterity  that 
sport  should  not  be  used  as  a  vehicle  for  incitement 
and hatred. We have a shared responsibility to keep the 
memory  of  the  Munich  massacre  alive  and  to  protect 
the peaceful message and sanctity of sports.
Nowhere  is  the  unifying  power  of  sport  more 
evident  than  on  Israel’s  national  sports  teams,  where 
Muslims,  Jews  and  Christians  all  wear  the  same 
uniform.  Whether  they  win  together  or  lose  together, 
they  always  keep  the  team  spirit.  One  sport  initiative 
6/13 
16-41516
06/12/2016 
A/71/PV.52
that  has  made  a  lasting  social  impact  is  Mamanet, 
the  Israeli  Mothers’  Cachibol  League.  Founded  by 
an  Israeli  mother,  Mamanet  brings  together  mothers 
from all ages, religions and backgrounds to play ball. 
Mamanet  leaves  no  mother  behind.  It  is  not  about 
who  can  score  the  most  points  or  who  is  the  fastest, 
but  rather  about  empowering  women  by  giving  them 
a  sense  of  belonging  to  a  unique  community  with 
shared goals. Mamanet shows how mothers can serve 
as  powerful  role  models  within  their  families  and 
communities by promoting good sportsmanship, team 
work and commitment to physical health. Mamanet is 
more than just a sport league; it is also a platform for 
advancing social causes and community initiatives. Its 
unique model is quickly spreading, and Austria, Italy, 
Greece, Cyprus and the United States of America have 
already adopted it.
A unique sports project, headed by the Shimon Peres 
Peace Centre in Israel, is another example of how sport 
can  act  as  a  catalyst  for  peaceful  coexistence.  Every 
year,  the  Twinned  Peace  Sport  School  project  brings 
together  about  2,000  Israeli  and  Palestinian  children 
to play sport in mixed teams. Those sport programmes 
not only develop the children’s physical fitness, but also 
foster mutual understanding and teach them tolerance, 
sportsmanship and teamwork. In the process, they can 
heal  wounds,  mend  fences  and  overcome  differences. 
The founder of that programme, Israel’s late President 
Shimon Peres, once said,
“I  think  peace  should  be  done  not  only  among 
Governments but among people”.
By  protecting  and  promoting  the  fundamental 
values of equality and mutual respect and by overcoming 
adversity through sport, we can create a more peaceful 
and inclusive future for generations to come.
Ms.  Al-Saleh  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to extend the condolences of Qatar 
to  the  Government  of  Brazil  over  the  tragic  air  crash 
involving Brazilian athletes.
I  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
for  his  efforts  and  for  the  holding  of  this  meeting  to 
discuss agenda item 11, entitled “Sport for development 
and  peace”.  I  also  thank  Mr.  Lemke,  United  Nations 
Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on Sport for 
Development  and  Peace,  for  his  strenuous  efforts  in 
supporting sport as a means of development and peace.
Numerous  General  Assembly  resolutions  have 
touched  on  building  a  better,  more  peaceful  world 
through sport and the Olympic ideals. The importance 
of  sport  has  been  acknowledged  as  a  means  to  foster 
education, health, development and peace. I would like 
to take this opportunity to shed light on my country’s 
experience,  which  reflects  our  firm  belief  in  the 
important  role  of  sport  in  fostering  dialogue  among 
cultures and in promoting peace and development.
Qatar’s Ministry for Youth and Sport deepens the 
concepts of health, education and peace through sport-
oriented youth centres, sport unions and clubs, and the 
Olympic Committee helps pupils to undertake physical 
activities. The State of Qatar is a member of the Group 
of  Friends  of  Sport  for  Peace  and  Development.  It 
co-chaired  that  Group  with  Costa  Rica  in  Geneva 
in  2013.  As  part  of  the  Qatar  National  Vision  2030, 
and  in  order  to  carry  out  the  initiative  to  create  a 
psychologically  and  physically  active  society,  in  2012 
we  designated  2  February  as  our  annual  Sports  Day. 
That day is an official holiday in the State of Qatar and a 
part of a pioneering and unique international initiative. 
The  purpose  of  that  initiative  was  to  consecrate  the 
concept of societal sport and increase participation in 
various activities. That day is the best way to increase 
society’s participation in sports, enabling all members 
of  our  society  to  engage  in  activities  that  make  them 
happier,  strengthen  public  health  and  promote  sports 
culture.
The  document  entitled  “Transforming  our  world: 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” states 
that  sport  is  an  important  empowering  element  of 
sustainable  development  and  peace.  It  encourages 
tolerance  and  respect  and  helps  women  and  young 
people to participate in society and achieve their goals 
in the fields of health, education and social integration. 
In the light of our interest in sport at the regional and 
international  levels,  we  have  hosted  major  sporting 
events,  such  as  the  2006  Asian  Games,  as  well  as 
the  world  athletic  championships  for  persons  with 
disabilities.  Qatar  has  become  an  important  centre 
for  hosting  various  regional  and  international  athletic 
events  and  tournaments,  because  it  believes  in  the 
important  role  played  by  sport  in  building  bridges 
and  integrating  societies  in  their  quest  to  achieve  the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
The  High  Commission  on  Heritage  plays  a 
significant  role  in  preparing  for  the  2022  Football 
World Cup, so that that occasion will be one of the most 
16-41516
7/13
A/71/PV.52 
06/12/2016
salient and successful in promoting the values of peace, 
development and understanding among our peoples. It 
will be the first time that the championship is hosted in 
the  Middle  East  region.  That  will  assist  in  promoting 
growth in the region by encouraging capacity-building 
and  the  participation  of  young  people  and  will  be  an 
important  forum  for  fostering  understanding  and 
dialogue  among  cultures.  With  a  view  to  promoting 
the hosting of major sporting events, Qatar, along with 
the  Permanent  Missions  of  Germany,  the  Republic  of 
Korea, the Russian Federation and Tunisia to the United 
Nations,  and  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Sport, 
Development  and  Peace,  organized  a  high-level  event 
at United Nations Headquarters on 16 February to shed 
light on the importance of hosting major sporting events 
as a means of fostering socioeconomic, environmental 
and sustainable development.
Participants  focused  on  the  socioeconomic  and 
developmental  role  of  hosting  major  sporting  events 
and on lessons learned, as well as on the constructive 
impact  on  local  communities,  which  benefit  from  the 
opportunities such events offer. Participants emphasized 
the  constructive  role  played  by  major  sporting  events 
in  developing  the  capacity  of  young  people,  women 
and persons with disabilities with different languages, 
religions and cultures. The State of Qatar reiterates its 
determination to continue its efforts to invest in sport 
so  as  to  pave  the  way  for  an  environment  conducive 
to  understanding  and 
to  strengthen  cooperation, 
solidarity  and  peace  at  the  national,  regional  and 
international levels.
Mr. Pong (Singapore): Before I begin my statement, 
my  delegation  would  like  to  extend  our  deepest 
sympathy  to  our  Brazilian  colleagues,  families  and 
supporters of and others involved with the Chapecoense 
Football Club. Please accept our condolences.
Singapore  looks  forward  to  the  adoption  of  the 
draft resolution entitled “Sport as a means to promote 
education, health, development and peace” (A/71/L.38). 
We  welcome  the  ideals  represented  in  the  draft 
resolution,  and  we  would  like  to  thank  Monaco  and 
Tunisia for facilitating the text.
Sport is a potent force for positive change in society. 
It brings people together and inspires the human spirit. 
It  transcends  differences  in  cultures,  nationalities 
and  socioeconomic  backgrounds,  and  it  contributes 
significantly to peace and sustainable development. The 
Olympic Truce — first established in the eighth century 
B.C.E. — has demonstrated time and again how sport 
can bridge divided communities, support reconciliation 
and  foster  peace.  More  recently,  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  recognizes 
the  growing 
contribution of sport to the achievement of development 
and  peace  in  its  promotion  of  tolerance  and  respect 
and  the  empowerment  of  women  and  young  people, 
individuals and communities, as well as its contribution 
to health, education and social-inclusion objectives.
In  Singapore  we  hope 
to  engender  greater 
inclusiveness, acceptance and understanding of persons 
with disabilities through sport. We launched a disability 
sports master plan last year to ensure a more inclusive, 
sporting  Singapore,  where  everyone,  regardless  of 
ability, can take part and even excel in sport. The master 
plan  will  harness  the  potential  of  sport  by  making  it 
easier  for  those  with  disabilities  to  lead  an  active 
lifestyle. It seeks to improve access and opportunities 
for persons with disabilities to participate in sport and 
to  develop  and  grow  the  pool  of  sports  professionals 
and  educators  with  expertise  in  disability  sports  and 
increase public awareness and support for our athletes. 
It  is  a  concrete  step  that  Singapore  is  taking  towards 
building  a  more  inclusive  society.  The  master  plan  is 
already yielding some results.
At the recent Rio Paralympic Games, Singapore was 
represented by 13 athletes across six sports, our largest-
ever  contingent.  Our  athletes  also  achieved  our  best-
ever result of two gold and one bronze medals. Swimmer 
Yip  Pin  Xiu  won  her  second  and  third  Paralympic 
gold medals in Rio, breaking two world records in the 
process.  Fellow  swimmer  Theresa  Goh  won  her  first-
ever  Paralympic  medal  after  four  Paralympic  Games. 
Like Joseph Schooling, who won Singapore’s first-ever 
Olympic gold medal at the Rio Olympic Games, their 
stories of perseverance and striving for excellence have 
made them sporting heroes among many Singaporeans, 
and these extraordinary individuals will inspire a new 
generation of budding athletes to fulfil their aspirations 
on a major sporting stage.
Mr. El Haycen (Mauritania), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
As part of our contribution to promoting a culture 
of  sport  in  the  region,  Singapore  hosted  the  eighth 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Para 
Games  last  December.  That  was  the  first  time  that 
Singapore  hosted  the  Games,  which  included  about 
1,400 athletes from 11 countries competing in 336 events 
8/13 
16-41516
06/12/2016 
A/71/PV.52
in  15  sports.  The  ASEAN  Para  Games  celebrate  the 
triumph of the human spirit over all odds and exemplify 
the  Paralympic  values  of  determination,  inspiration, 
courage  and  equality.  That  was  also  reflected  in  the 
theme  of  the  Games,  “Celebrate  the  Extraordinary”, 
that is, to celebrate the tremendous courage and spirit of 
the para athletes, who have overcome great challenges, 
not just in leading active lives but in excelling in their 
respective sports.
As we continue to uphold the spirit of the Olympic 
Truce  and  implement  the  2030  Agenda,  Singapore 
firmly  believes  that  sport  is  an  enduring  source  of 
inspiration  for  us  to  aim  higher  and  do  better  in  our 
efforts  to  build  a  more  inclusive,  sustainable  and 
prosperous future for our people.
Mr.  Prasad  (India):  India  welcomed  resolution 
70/4,  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful  and  better  world 
through sport and the Olympic ideal” and adopted by 
the  General  Assembly  on  26  October  2015.  We  also 
welcome the designation of 6 April as the International 
Day of Sport for Development and Peace.
The  valuable  contribution  of  sport  in  promoting 
education, sustainable development, peace, cooperation, 
solidarity,  fairness,  social  inclusion  and  health  at  the 
local,  regional  and  international  levels  is  undeniable. 
In  that  context,  the  ancient  Greek  tradition  of  the 
Olympic Truce underlines the recognition that sport is 
a valuable tool for consolidating peace and solidarity, 
as well as tolerance and understanding among peoples 
and nations.
While sporting events have on occasion been used 
for  political  ends,  including  for  propaganda,  boycott 
and the like, on the whole sporting competitions have 
overwhelmingly  served  to  bring  people  and  nations 
together and uplift the human spirit collectively.
In  a  country  such  as  India,  our  national  teams 
in  popular  sports  such  as  cricket  and  hockey  reflect 
the  diversity  of  our  population,  with  players  who 
speak  different  languages,  profess  different  faiths 
and  come  from  different  urban  or  rural  backgrounds 
playing  together  as  one.  India’s  sports  policy  focuses 
on  the  broad-basing  of  sports  and  on  upgrading  and 
developing  sports  infrastructure,  supporting  national 
sport federations, creating incentives to promote sport 
and enhance the participation of women, ethnic groups 
and  rural  youth,  and  promoting  sport-mindedness 
among  the  public  at  large.  That  focus  aims  to  draw 
more and more youth from both cities and rural areas 
towards sports and thereby provide a platform for their 
potential to advance social and developmental goals.
is 
A  number  of  non-governmental  organizations 
(NGOs), in association with local Government bodies, 
have launched a series of innovative programmes aimed 
at social development through sports. Those initiatives, 
a few of which we have profiled, have focused on specific 
areas,  including  education  and  poverty  eradication. 
One  example 
the  Mumbai-based  NGO  Magic 
Bus,  which  has  been  running  a  series  of  adolescent-
mentoring  programmes  to  help  young  persons  from 
weak  socioeconomic  backgrounds  to  break  out  of  the 
cycle of poverty. The programme has used sports in its 
weekly curriculum to change behaviours in the fields of 
education, health and gender. Magic Bus has been able 
to reach more than 370,000 children across four Indian 
states since its inception in the year 2000.
Another  example 
is 
the  NGO  India  Ability 
Foundation,  which  has  chosen  to  work  in  the  area  of 
youth  with  physical  disabilities  in  the  Indian  state  of 
Rajasthan.  The  Foundation’s  IMAGE  programme 
began in 2005 and aims to drive home the importance 
of  education  and  health  for  disabled  children.  In  the 
first  phase,  the  programme  focused  on  developing 
cooperation  and  friendship  among  both  disabled 
and  non-disabled  children  by  setting  up  common 
sports  clubs.  In  the  second  phase  of  the  programme, 
the  Foundation  has  trained  a  combined  group  of 
such  youngsters  to  deliver  social  impact  messages 
on  the  importance  of  education  and  health  through  a 
curriculum based on sports and games.
that  context,  we  welcome 
the  Olympic 
Movement  and 
the 
Summer,  Winter,  Youth  and  Paralympic  Games  give 
to  the  task  of  involving  youth  in  the  development  of 
their physical and mental energies and building bridges 
across  the  world.  We  congratulate  Brazil  for  hosting 
the  Rio  Olympic  Games  and  the  Paralympics,  which 
took  the  Games  to  a  new  continent  for  the  first  time 
and advanced the Olympic Movement. By providing a 
number of examples of competitors helping each other 
and rising above the competition, the Games reiterated 
that sportsmanship can build bridges among people of 
different nationalities, religions, ethnicities, languages 
and cultures.
the  significant 
In 
impetus 
that 
While  India  is  still  working  to  improve  its 
performance  in  many  of  the  Olympic  disciplines,  the 
recent  Rio  Olympics  provided  a  fresh  crop  of  young 
16-41516
9/13
A/71/PV.52 
06/12/2016
athletes, many of them women, who endeared themselves 
with their courageous performance on the world stage, 
despite the odds that they have had to face in life. From 
India’s perspective, the two biggest stars of the recently 
concluded Rio Olympics of 2016 were two young sports 
women:  wrestler  Sakshi  Malik,  who  won  a  bronze  in 
her weight category, and Dipa Karmakar, who became 
the first Indian gymnast to enter the Olympics finals. 
Each  in  her  own  way  conveyed  the  exciting  story  of 
women’s empowerment in India.
Sakshi Malik, who hails from the northern state of 
Haryana, embodies the determination of women from 
the rural areas of the state to pursue their dreams, while 
overcoming  a  deeply  conservative  and  patriarchal 
rural  society.  Sport  is  seen  by  women  in  that  state, 
which  has  one  of  India’s  most  negative  sex  ratios,  as 
a vehicle to rewrite social norms, and Sakshi Malik is 
a  representative  of  that  effort.  Similarly,  the  triumph 
of the young gymnast Dipa Karmakar, from the border 
state of Tripura, highlights the determination of young 
women  from  rural  pockets  of  India  to  participate  in 
sport despite the lack of opportunities and facilities for 
women,  as  well  as  the  ingrained  conservative  social 
values. Their exploits, along with the march of India’s 
women’s  badminton  star  Pusarla  Venkata  Sindhu  to 
the finals of the women’s badminton competition, were 
the  principal  highlights  of  India’s  participation  in  the 
Olympics.  Their  stories  and  exploits  in  the  Olympics 
have resonated across India, making the Rio Olympics 
both a stage and a booster for women’s empowerment 
in India.
Sport is a reflection of society. The degeneration of 
values in society — violence, corruption, hooliganism, 
deception  and  drug  abuse  —  have  also  been  noticed 
in  sport.  Concerted  vigilance  and  resolute  action  are 
needed  to  prevent  the  intrusion  of  those  ills  and  to 
protect the noble ideals and spirit behind the Olympic 
Games and other sports.
Sport promotes happiness and joy and, at the same 
time, teaches the qualities of self-discipline, patience, 
training,  skills  development,  cooperation,  excellence 
and  respect  for  one’s  opponents  among  the  players, 
as  well  as  among  those  who  follow  sports.  A  wider 
pursuit of sporting activities in society helps the cause 
of peace and development. It must be our endeavour to 
promote sports and a culture of sport in our countries as 
a means of building peace, friendship, cooperation and 
understanding among peoples.
Mr. Tuy (Cambodia): I appreciate the comprehensive 
report (A/71/179) submitted by the Secretary-General. 
Cambodia  welcomes  the  recognition  of  sport  as  a 
momentous  tool  for  development  and  peace.  The 
importance of sport was reaffirmed in the 2005 World 
Summit outcome document and in the 2010 Millennium 
Development  Goals,  particularly  in  the  recognition 
of  6  April  as  the  International  Day  of  Sport  for 
Development and Peace.
From  a  multidimensional  perspective,  Cambodia 
finds  that  sport  plays  a  simple  and  straightforward 
role towards a solution for the achievement of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. The international 
community can see that the relevance of sport in each 
of  the  17  Sustainable  Devlopment  Goals  (SDGs)  can 
be  shown  in  areas  such  as  lessons  learned  and  best 
practices in sport for development and peace.
Of the several roles that it plays in the promotion 
of  education,  health  and  development,  sport  can  play 
an  even  bigger  role  in  bringing  peace  to  conflicting 
communities  and  peoples,  and  possibly  between 
countries  in  conflict.  That  is  because  of  its  universal 
language,  which  can  bring  together  and  bond  peoples 
and countries, regardless of their cultural and political 
differences, economic status or religious belief.
The  growing  contribution  of  sport  has  produced 
good results in various countries with aboriginal peoples 
or young people with disabilities, as well as in conflict 
and  post-conflict  areas,  and  even  in  specific  cases, 
such  as  preventing  teenage  pregnancy.  Almost  all  the 
Sustainable Development Goals can be reached if our 
wholehearted  efforts  and  support  for  mainstreaming 
sport for development and peace could be linked to the 
SDGs.  The  Secretary-General’s  report  clearly  spells 
out these initial steps, policies and programmes.
The 1960s were considered a golden era for sport 
in  Cambodia.  Unfortunately,  almost  three  decades  of 
civil war and internal conflict reduced the country to 
ruin,  including  in  the  domain  of  sports.  Since  1998, 
however,  thanks  to  the  win-win  policy  introduced  by 
Prime  Minister  Samdech  Techo  Hun  Sen,  peace  has 
been fully restored throughout the country, the Royal 
Government of Cambodia has done its utmost to foster 
the  country’s  development  in  every  area,  and  sport 
has  started  to  re-emerge.  Our  Ministry  of  Education, 
Youth and Sports and our National Olympic Committee 
have strengthened and expanded sports infrastructure 
at every level. Sport has been introduced into primary 
10/13 
16-41516
06/12/2016 
A/71/PV.52
and secondary schools, while playing fields have been 
renovated  and  upgraded,  instructors  trained,  sports 
clubs equipped and federation, school and community 
clubs developed.
Cambodia  has  also  hosted  many 
regional 
competitions,  such  as  the  football  and  taekwondo 
championships  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations, to name only two. We also had the honour this 
year of hosting the 2016 Angkor Wat international half 
marathon charity race, which was held for the twenty-
first  time  on  4  December  at  the  Angkor  Wat  temple 
complex in Siem Reap province. Runners from all over 
the world, including some with disabilities, participated 
in support of a ban on the manufacture and inhumane 
use of anti-personnel mines.
Taking a step further in the area of sports, Cambodia 
will host the biennial Southeast Asian Games in 2023, 
and we are building the multi-million-dollar Morodok 
Techo national sports complex for them. In October and 
November of this year, in preparation for the Southeast 
Asian  Games,  Cambodia  hosted  its  first  national 
Games,  bringing  together  thousands  of  athletes  from 
across the country. Cambodia has taken part in various 
regional and international competitions, including the 
Southeast Asian Games and the Asian Summer, Winter, 
Indoor  and  Beach  Games.  Furthermore,  this  year 
the  National  Olympic  Committee  of  Cambodia  sent 
athletes  to  participate  in  the  2016  Summer  Olympics 
in  Rio  de  Janeiro  from  5  to  21  August,  marking  our 
sixth consecutive appearance at the Summer Olympics, 
although as Kampuchea we also took part in the Games 
in 1956, 1964 and 1972.
individual  countries, 
In conclusion, Cambodia stands ready to cooperate 
with 
regional  groups  and 
stakeholders and international organizations in order to 
maximize the potential of sport in relation to the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Mr.  Araújo  Prado  (Brazil):  On  behalf  of  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Brazil,  who  are  also 
represented  here  by  Senators  Gladson  Cameli,  Sérgio 
Petecão  and  José  Medeiros,  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  express  our  gratitude  for  the  wave  of 
solidarity  across  the  globe  in  the  wake  of  the  tragic 
accident  that  recently  befell  the  Chapecoense  team 
members,  journalists  and  others.  The  demonstrations 
of support have helped greatly to easing the grief of the 
victims’ family members and the country as a whole. 
This  solidarity,  and  the  success  of  the  Olympic  and 
Paralympic Games held this year in Rio, have once again 
illustrated  sport’s  potential  for  promoting  empathy, 
peace  and  development.  We  thank  all  Member  States 
and  the  United  Nations  system  for  their  condolences 
and support, which is much appreciated.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In 
accordance with resolution 64/3, of 19 October 2009, I 
now give the floor to the observer of the International 
Olympic Committee.
Mr. Pescante (International Olympic Committee): 
On  behalf  of  the  International  Olympic  Committee 
(IOC), I would first like to thank the Secretary-General 
for  his  comprehensive  biennial  report  (A/71/179), 
which outlines the many ways that sport is contributing 
to  sustainable  development.  We  would  also 
like 
to  pay  special  tribute  to  Mr.  Wilfried  Lemke,  his 
Special Adviser on Sport for Development and Peace, 
whose  efforts  have  been  central  to  our  shared  tasks. 
The  recognition  of  sport  as  an  important  enabler  in 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals has been 
a milestone in our common path. The sports world is 
ready to be a key partner in the implementation of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Only a few months ago, the Olympic Games in Rio 
demonstrated the power of sport when a country that is 
deeply divided, socially, economically and politically, 
came  together  in  a  splendid  moment  of  unity.  The 
Games in Rio also sent a message of society’s potential 
for achieving peace, tolerance and respect. The athletes 
of  the  first-ever  refugee  Olympic  team  represented 
solidarity and hope for the millions of refugees around 
the  world.  They  showed  the  world  that,  even  after 
facing  unimaginable  tragedies  and  suffering,  anyone 
can  contribute  to  society  through  talent,  skill  and, 
most important, the strength of the human spirit. The 
Games  sent  a  signal  to  the  international  community 
that  refugees  can  enrich  society  just  as  they  do  our 
Olympic family. The Assembly should rest assured that 
the IOC’s support to the refugees remains ongoing.
Sport  can  also  be  a  powerful  tool  for  promoting 
gender  equality.  In  that  regard,  while  we  must  still 
continue to strive for progress, we are moving closer to 
50 per cent female participation in the Olympic Games. 
In  Rio  de  Janeiro  we  saw  more  women  compete  than 
ever before, accounting for 45 per cent of the athletes. 
Of course, gender parity at the Olympic Games alone is 
not enough. Therefore, one of the legacies of the recent 
Games is our joint initiative with the United Nations to 
16-41516
11/13
A/71/PV.52 
06/12/2016
support 2,500 girls across Rio de Janeiro state by using 
sports programmes to empower them to become future 
leaders in their communities.
A year ago in Paris, before 1,000 mayors from around 
the globe, the President of the IOC emphasized that the 
Olympic Games could be a catalyst for the sustainable 
development  of  cities.  Beyond  sustainability,  in  our 
host-city contracts, we have made a clear commitment 
to increasing the protection of several aspects of human 
rights in the organization of the Games.
Making sport accessible to all also remains a major 
priority for us and is the basis of our new programme 
for building safe spaces for sport around the world. This 
initiative  is  designed  to  provide  children  with  equal 
opportunities for playing sports in a safe environment 
and to place sport at the core of public policy.
With  regard  to  the  importance  of  sport  for 
peacebuilding,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  General 
Assembly for its work and for its adoption last year of 
resolution  70/4,  the  Olympic  Truce  resolution,  ahead 
of  the  Rio  Games.  A  new  consultation  process  for  an 
Olympic Truce draft resolution in the context of the 2018 
Winter  Olympic  Games,  to  be  held  in  Pyeongchang, 
will start in the coming months, and we hope that the 
Assembly will support it once again.
However,  sport  can  succeed  only  if  its  autonomy 
and neutrality are respected and if there is harmonious 
collaboration,  synergy  and  mutual  respect  among 
international institutions, public authorities and sports 
organizations. At the same time, we are ready to address 
some of the many challenges we face, which also means 
combating doping, complying with the basic principles 
of good governance and increasing transparency.
In conclusion, I would like to express special thanks 
to all the members and co-Chairs of the Group of Friends 
of  Sport  for  their  important  support.  Lastly,  I  would 
like to reiterate to all of the countries represented here 
in the Assembly the IOC’s commitment to cooperation, 
and  our  determination  to  ensure,  through  all  possible 
means,  that  the  draft  resolution  to  be  adopted  during 
this session (A/71/L.35) will bring positive results and 
generate  increased  synergies  and  further  recognition 
for sport in the service of human beings.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on this item. The 
General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 11.
Agenda item 130
Investigation into the conditions and circumstances 
resulting in the tragic death of Dag Hammarskjöld 
and of the members of the party accompanying him
Draft resolution (A/71/L.25)
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I should 
like to inform members that action on draft resolution 
A/71/L.25  will  be  postponed  to  a  later  date  to  allow 
time for a review of its programme budget implications 
by the Fifth Committee.
I now give the floor to the representative of Sweden 
to introduce draft resolution A/71/L.25.
Mr. Skoog (Sweden): I am proud to introduce today, 
on  behalf  of  all  of  the  sponsors,  the  draft  resolution 
contained  in  document  A/71/L.25,  concerning  the 
investigation  into  the  conditions  and  circumstances 
resulting in the tragic death of Dag Hammarskjöld and 
of  the  members  of  the  party  accompanying  him.  We 
are very grateful to all the delegations that have joined 
us in that endeavour, and I would like to thank all the 
sponsors for their support.
In  these  turbulent  times,  our  need  for  moral  and 
political  leadership  is  greater  than  ever.  The  role  and 
function  of  the  Secretary-General  provide  a  unique 
platform  from  which  to  exercise  such  authority.  Dag 
Hammarskjöld,  the  second  Secretary-General  of  the 
United  Nations,  understood  how  to  use  that  platform 
for better ends. More than ever, we need to recall the 
dedication with which he fought for the independence 
of  his  Office,  tirelessly  defended  the  ideals  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations and loyally promoted the 
integrity of the Organization.
the  Secretary-General 
More than 50 years later, we still do not know the 
exact circumstances surrounding Mr. Hammarskjöld’s 
death,  in  Ndola  on  17  September  1961.  Last  year,  the 
General  Assembly,  by  consensus,  adopted  resolution 
70/11,  asking 
to  pursue 
the  pending  requests  for  information  made  by  the 
Independent  Panel  of  Experts  established  pursuant 
to  resolution  69/246.  This  summer,  as  a  result  of  the 
Secretary-General’s  efforts  and  the  cooperation  of 
Member States, new documents came to light regarding 
the  circumstances  of  Mr.  Hammarskjöld’s  death.  The 
authenticity of the documents still has to be determined, 
as  does  their  relevance  to  any  further  investigations. 
Since it is our shared responsibility to pursue the full 
12/13 
16-41516
06/12/2016 
A/71/PV.52
truth in this matter, it is clear that the need for additional 
follow-up remains.
In  the  light  of  what  I  have  just  said,  and  in  firm 
support  of  the  Secretary-General’s  recommendations 
on the way forward, Sweden, together with its partners, 
introduces  draft  resolution  A/71/L.25  before 
the 
Assembly today. It has six operational elements, the most 
important of which is contained in paragraph 1. It asks 
the Secretary-General to appoint an eminent person to 
review the potential new information — including any 
that may be available from Member States — in order 
to assess its probative value, determine the scope that 
any  further  inquiry  or  investigation  should  take  and, 
if  possible,  draw  conclusions  from  the  investigations 
the  draft  resolution 
already  conducted.  Because 
includes  a  small  programme  budget 
implication, 
we  will  take  action  on  it  once  the  Fifth  Committee 
has  considered  the  matter,  later  in  December.  In  the 
meantime, the list of sponsors will remain open, and we 
encourage all Member States to join us and our partners 
in this endeavour.
Time  is  of  the  essence,  since  with  every  passing 
year the door is closing further on finding the truth. But 
our efforts must continue. We owe it to the families of 
those who perished that night, to the United Nations as 
an Organization and to all here who strive to continue 
to work in Mr. Hammarskjöld’s spirit.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 130.
The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.
16-41516
13/13
