United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
27th plenary meeting
Thursday, 13 October 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.27
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Tribute to the memory of His Majesty King 
Bhumibol Adulyadej, the late King of Thailand
The President: It is my sad duty to pay tribute to the 
memory of the late King of Thailand, His Majesty King 
Bhumibol  Adulyadej,  who  passed  away  on  Thursday, 
13 October 2016. On behalf of the General Assembly, I 
request the representative of the Kingdom of Thailand 
to  convey  our  condolences  to  the  royal  family,  the 
Government and the people of Thailand.
May  I  now  invite  representatives  to  stand  and 
observe a minute of silence in tribute to the memory of 
the late King.
The members of the General Assembly observed a 
minute of silence.
The  President:  A  formal  tribute  in  the  General 
to 
later  date, 
Assembly  will  be  convened  at  a 
be announced.
Agenda item 113
Appointment of the Secretary-General of the 
United Nations
Letter from the President of the 
Security Council to the President of the General 
Assembly (A/71/531)
Draft resolution (A/71/L.4)
The President: I now call on the President of the 
Security Council, who will report to the Assembly on 
the work undertaken by the Council on the appointment 
of the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian):  It  is  an  honour  for  me,  in  my  capacity  as 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of 
October, to address the General Assembly in order to 
convey  the  recommendation  of  the  Security  Council 
for  the  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General  of  the 
United Nations.
At its 7782nd meeting, held in private on 6 October, 
the Security Council adopted by acclamation resolution 
2311  (2016)  concerning 
the  recommendation  for 
the  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General  of  the 
United Nations.
I  shall  now  read  out  the  text  of  the  resolution. 
Resolution 2311 (2016) reads as follows:
“The Security Council,
“Having  considered 
recommendation  for 
Secretary-General of the United Nations,
the  question  of 
the  appointment  of 
the 
the 
“Recommends  to  the  General  Assembly  that 
Mr.  António  Guterres  be  appointed  Secretary-
General of the United Nations for a term of office 
from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2021.”
In  the  joint  letter  of  the  President  of  the  Security 
Council  and  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
dated  15  December  2015,  the  Council  pledged  to 
conclude  its  part  in  the  selection  process  in  a  timely 
manner, so that the newly appointed Secretary-General 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-32309 (E)
*1632309*
A/71/PV.27 
13/10/2016
would have sufficient time to prepare for the job. The 
Council is pleased that, by adopting its recommendation 
for the appointment on 6 October, the Council met that 
objective.  The  Security  Council  believes  that  early 
action  on  the  appointment  by  the  General  Assembly 
would provide the new Secretary-General with enough 
time to prepare for performing his duties.
On  behalf  of  the  Security  Council,  I  would  like 
to  express  appreciation  to  all  Member  States  that 
nominated candidates as part of the selection process. I 
would also like to express appreciation to the candidates 
who have actively participated in the process. During 
the informal meetings with each of them, the Council 
had the opportunity to evaluate their high professional 
skills and commitment to the purposes and principles 
of the United Nations.
The  Security  Council  adopted  resolution  2311 
(2016) by acclamation. Accordingly, the members of the 
Security Council expressed their unconditional support 
for Mr. António Guterres, who, if appointed today, will 
head our common Organization.
In 
connection  with 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  thank  you,  Sir,  for 
having convened this meeting expeditiously following 
the recommendation made to the General Assembly by 
the Security Council.
The  President: 
the 
recommendation of the Security Council, the General 
Assembly  has  before  it  a  draft  resolution  issued  as 
document A/71/L.4. The draft was prepared following 
extensive  consultations  between  me,  special  advisers 
on  my  behalf,  and  the  United  Nations  membership. 
Throughout those consultations, a number of consistent 
priorities held by Member States emerged, and in that 
context,  I  want  to  thank  all  of  them  for  their  inputs, 
which were fundamental in the preparation of the text.
During  the  drafting  process,  I  was  conscious  of 
the need to reflect the historic advances that had been 
made in the process of the selection and appointment of 
the Secretary-General, in line with resolutions 69/321 
and 70/305. That included the acknowledgement of the 
transparent and inclusive process that was undertaken, 
from  the  informal  dialogues,  which  were  conducted 
between  the  General  Assembly  and  each  of  the 
candidates,  to  the  unprecedented  level  of  cooperation 
between  the  Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the Security Council.
The main task was to reflect, within the framework 
of the draft resolution on the appointment, the committed 
support  for  the  process  that  was  undertaken  and  the 
expectations of Member States. With the reaffirmation 
of  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  reference  to 
Chapter XV of the Charter of the United Nations and 
the recognition of resolutions 69/321 and 70/305 as the 
cornerstones  of  the  process,  I  am  confident  that  the 
text  before  the  Assembly  fully  reflects  the  views  of 
Member States.
After  the  extensive  consultations  that  I  have  had 
with  the  membership,  it  is  my  understanding  that  the 
General Assembly wishes to proceed with the adoption 
of draft resolution A/71/L.4 by acclamation.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  adopt  by  acclamation  draft  resolution 
A/71/L.4?
Draft 
acclamation (resolution 71/4).
The President: I now request the Chief of Protocol 
escort 
the  Secretary-General-designate,  His 
to 
Excellency Mr. António Guterres, to the platform.
resolution  A/71/L.4  was  adopted  by 
The  Chief  of  Protocol  escorted  the  Secretary-
General-designate,  Mr.  António  Guterres, 
to 
the platform.
The  President:  I  have  the  honour  to  announce 
that  His  Excellency  Mr.  António  Guterres  has  been 
appointed  by  acclamation  Secretary-General  of  the 
United  Nations  for  a  term  of  office  beginning  on 
1 January 2017 and ending on 31 December 2021.
Today is indeed a momentous day. Since 1946, this 
is  only  the  ninth  time  that  the  General  Assembly  has 
taken  action  on  the  appointment  of  a  new  Secretary-
General. It is inherently a decision of deep consequence, 
as the entire membership agrees to the appointment of 
an individual to lead the United Nations. The process 
undertaken so as to arrive at today’s decision has been 
a historic one.
It was shaped from the outset through committed 
engagement on the part of the General Assembly. For 
the first time in the history of the United Nations, the 
selection  and  appointment  process  for  the  Secretary-
General  has  been  guided  by 
the  principles  of 
transparency and inclusivity. The process began with the 
first-ever joint call from the Presidents of the General 
Assembly  and  Security  Council  formally  soliciting 
2/11 
16-32309
13/10/2016 
A/71/PV.27
candidates for the job. From the outset, it acknowledged 
the importance of geographic and gender balance and 
explicitly invited the candidacies of women.
It  was  a  process  that  specifically  sought  out 
candidates  who  embody  a  firm  commitment 
to 
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  exemplify  the  highest  standards  of 
efficiency, competence and integrity, and have shown 
proven  leadership  and  managerial  abilities,  extensive 
experience 
relations  and  strong 
diplomatic communication and multilingual skills.
international 
in 
And  throughout  it  all,  the  process  emphasized 
the  need  to  secure  the  best  possible  candidate  for  the 
role. Thirteen candidates of the highest standards were 
presented for consideration, seven of them women. From 
the  moment  of  the  presentation  of  their  nominations, 
their  candidatures  were  subject  to  full  public  view 
with  the  joint  circulation  of  letters,  the  establishment 
of  a  dedicated  website  and  the  presentation  of  each 
candidate’s vision for the Organization. All candidates 
were  given  and  took  the  opportunity  to  participate  in 
informal dialogues with the United Nations membership, 
a  process  deeply  enriched  by  the  engagement  of  civil 
society and the wider global public.
Throughout the process, a number of key messages 
began  to  resonate  from  Member  States  —  the  desire 
to  continue  to  see  an  independent  and  courageous 
Secretary-General who will make full use of the powers 
provided for him in the Charter of the United Nations; 
a person who is committed to ensuring that the United 
Nations both embraces and exemplifies gender equality 
at  all  levels;  a  person  with  the  deftness  and  skills  to 
innovate  and  adapt  the  Organization’s  structures, 
capacities,  culture  and  capabilities  to  respond  to 
today’s  major  challenges;  and  the  acknowledgment  of 
the  importance  of  geographic  and  gender  balance  in 
senior posts.
I  congratulate  Mr.  Guterres  on  having  emerged 
as  the  best  candidate  from  such  a  historic,  rigorous 
and  comprehensive  process.  Mr.  Guterres  embodies 
the  highest  standards  of  competence,  integrity  and 
leadership needed for the position, and he brings with 
him vast experience from his time as the Prime Minister 
of Portugal and the United Nations High Commissioner 
for Refugees. His dedication to the ideals and common 
values  of  the  United  Nations  is  beyond  doubt.  I  am 
confident  that  Mr.  Guterres  will  serve  the  global 
community  with  dedication  as  a  moral  authority  and 
be the voice of our collective conscience and humanity 
throughout his term.
I assure Mr. Guterres of my full support throughout 
the  seventy-first  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  will  do  everything  within  my  power  to  facilitate 
a  smooth  transition  process.  I  am  pleased  to  say 
that  he  has  accepted  my  invitation  to  meet  with  the 
General  Assembly  on  19  October  in  order  to  begin 
a  dialogue  on  critical,  priority  and  emerging  issues 
for  the  Organization.  Once  again,  congratulations  to 
Mr. Guterres.
It  is  now  my  honour  to  give  the  floor  to  the 
Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon.
The  Secretary-General:  Before  turning  to  our 
agenda item, I would like to offer my deep condolences 
to the royal family, the Government and the people of 
Thailand on the passing of His Majesty King Bhumibol 
Adulyadej. His Majesty King Adulyadej was revered by 
the people of Thailand as a unifying national leader. He 
was also highly respected internationally. At this time 
of sorrow and loss, I hope that Thailand will continue to 
honour King Adulyadej’s legacy of commitment to the 
universal values and respect for human rights.
Above  all,  to  the  Secretary-General-designate,  I 
offer my best wishes and congratulations.
I  commend  the  Member  States  not  only  for  their 
choice  of  Secretary-General  but  also  for  the  way  in 
which  they  went  about  making  that  choice.  The  first-
ever  public  hearings  on  the  selection  of  a  Secretary-
General opened the process to the world. Several highly 
qualified women and men were given a unique platform 
from which to share their vision and answer questions 
from the diplomatic community and civil society. Those 
new  steps  established  a  new  benchmark  for  openness 
and engagement.
Secretary-General-designate  Guterres 
is  well 
known  to  all  of  us  in  the  Hall,  but  he  is  perhaps  the 
best known where it counts most — on the front lines 
of  armed  conflict  and  humanitarian  suffering.  For 
the past decade, the work of the United Nations High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  other  humanitarian 
actors has provided a lifeline for millions upon millions 
of people forced from their homes. They also received 
something  else  —  compassion.  The  same  solidarity 
was at the heart of the High Commissioner’s effective 
advocacy around the globe.
16-32309
3/11
A/71/PV.27 
13/10/2016
Mr. Guterres also brings deeds and solid political 
experience,  including  his  two  terms  of  service  as 
Prime Minister of Portugal. His political instincts are 
those  of  the  United  Nations  —  cooperation  for  the 
common  good  and  shared  responsibility  for  people 
and  the  planet.  He  recognizes  the  crucial  importance 
of  women’s  empowerment  from  peace-negotiations 
tables to the halls of this house. As an active participant 
in  the  Senior  Management  Group  and  the  Chief 
Executives  Board,  he  understands  the  inner  workings 
of our Organization. I have long valued his advice and 
admired his spirit of service. He is a wonderful choice 
to steer this Organization as we build on the progress 
of the past decade, while addressing the insecurity and 
uncertainties of today’s world.
The Secretary-General-designate has often shared 
his  feelings  on  the  privilege  of  being  a  part  of  the 
United  Nations.  Despite  all  the  challenges,  he  said, 
“This is still the best place in the world to work”. After 
10 years, I could not agree more. Today’s ceremony is 
also poignant for me, since it takes place 10 years after 
the  day  of  my  own  election  in  2006.  As  I  prepare  to 
hand over the baton of leadership, I know that Member 
States, the outstanding women and men of the United 
Nations  and  the  people  of  the  world  are  all  looking 
forward to his tenure with confidence and excitement.
I congratulate him and wish him great success.
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for 
his statement.
It  is  now  my  honour  to  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of the Niger, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of African States.
Mr. Wafy (Niger): I have the honour to speak on 
behalf of the Group of African States on this important 
occasion  of  the  appointment  of  the  next  Secretary-
General, under agenda item 113.
The  African  Group  welcomes  the  commitment  to 
remaining  faithful  to  the  General  Assembly’s  call  for 
increased transparency and inclusivity in the selection 
and  appointment  of  the  next  Secretary-General,  in 
accordance with article 97 of the Charter of the United 
Nations. It therefore fully endorses the approach taken 
in adopting the President’s text by acclamation, which, 
among other things, appoints Mr. António Guterres as 
Secretary-General  for  a  term  of  office  beginning  on 
1 January 2017 and ending on 31 December 2021.
extends 
The  African  Group 
its  heartiest 
congratulations 
to  Mr.  António  Guterres  on  his 
designation  to  take  the  helm  of  the  United  Nations, 
bringing  on  board  a  wealth  of  experience  in  global 
affairs,  and  it  further  assures  him  of  the  African 
Group’s full support and commitment in the discharge 
of  his  mandate.  The  African  Group  is  particularly 
encouraged  by  the  transparency  and  inclusivity  that 
guided  the  selection  process,  which  re-enforced  the 
legitimacy  of  the  General  Assembly  and,  indeed,  the 
nomination of Mr. Guterres. Our deepest gratitude goes 
out to His Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, President 
of the General Assembly at its seventieth session, for his 
exemplary leadership throughout the selection process, 
as well as to you, Mr. President, for leading the process 
to its logical conclusion.
I cannot conclude without seizing this opportunity 
to commend, on behalf of the African Group, Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  laudable  achievements, 
albeit under very difficult circumstances. Particularly 
notable  are  his  enduring  legacies  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement 
on Climate Change.
In conclusion, the African Group looks forward to 
the upcoming informal meeting of the General Assembly 
plenary  with  the  Secretary-General-designate,  to  be 
held on 19 October, as a unique opportunity to further 
engage on issues of priority and interest to the African 
Group  and  more  broadly,  on  how  to  make  the  United 
Nations fit for purpose.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Kuwait, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Asia-Pacific States.
Mr.  Alotaibi  (Kuwait):  I  have  the  honour  and 
privilege  today  to  address  the  General  Assembly 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Asia-Pacific  States  on  the 
occasion  of  the  adoption  of  resolution  71/4,  which 
endorses  the  Security  Council  recommendation  to 
appoint  Mr.  António  Guterres  as  the  ninth  Secretary-
General for five years beginning 1 January 2017.
I  would  like  to  begin  by  taking  this  opportunity 
to  thank  our  current  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon,  who  over  the  past  10  years  has  served  the 
United Nations with dignity and humility. We are proud 
that Mr. Ban is from our region. He has inspired global 
development for the future by pushing for advancements 
in the areas of women’s empowerment, gender equality, 
human  rights  and  climate  change.  His  tireless  efforts 
4/11 
16-32309
13/10/2016 
A/71/PV.27
resulted, inter alia, in the Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change,  which  will  enter  into  force  on  4  November. 
Also highly commendable was his drive to ensure that 
the work of the Millennium Development Goals would 
not  be  lost.  He  promoted  the  post-2015  development 
agenda, which includes the assurance that no one will 
be left behind, by encouraging Member States to adopt 
the Sustainable Development Goals to help protect the 
planet for future generations.
We would like to thank him for his many years of 
service to the Organization, and we wish him well in all 
of his future endeavours. We reconfirm our commitment 
and  support  for  him  as  he  continues  to  serve  out  his 
remaining 78 days in office.In this occasion, we would 
also  like  to  take  the  opportunity  to  thank  Mrs.  Ban 
Soon-taek,  who  has  steadfastly  stood  by  her  husband 
during  his  10  years  as  Secretary-General  and  played 
an active role by travelling around the world with him 
to  advocate  the  ideals  of  the  United  Nations.  She  has 
helped  to  organize  and  has  actively  participated  in 
numerous events to fund humanitarian activities, such 
as  the  United  Nations  International  Bazaar.  She  also 
worked to advance the rights of children, women and 
senior citizens by bringing attention to issues such as 
autism  and  violence  against  women,  and  for  that,  we 
truly thank her.
I am pleased and honoured, on behalf of the Asia-
Pacific  Group,  to  extend  our  sincere  congratulations 
to Mr. António Guterres on his election as Secretary-
General. Mr. Guterres’ election signals an era of change 
at the United Nations in the procedure for the selection 
of  the  Secretary-General,  which  this  year  involved 
public hearings, informal dialogue, a global town hall 
meeting and meetings with all United Nations regional 
groups. Never has the selection process been more open 
and transparent.
Throughout the six straw polls taken by the Security 
Council,  Mr.  Guterres  was  a  clear  favourite  for  the 
position. Moreover, Mr. Guterres’ extensive knowledge 
and  expertise,  clearly  reflected  in  the  interactive 
dialogue  held  with  him  in  the  General  Assembly, 
enabled  him  to  gain  unanimous  support  from  its 
Members. Mr. Guterres has presented a clear vision for 
the role of the United Nations that provides all Member 
States with renewed hope for the future. He brings to 
the position a wealth of knowledge, professional skill, 
vision, experience and wisdom as a veteran politician 
and leader, showing leadership abilities that will serve 
him well in the role of Secretary-General.
The  Asia-Pacific  Group  welcomes  Secretary-
General  designate  António  Guterres  and  wishes  him 
success in fulfilling that central role at an exceedingly 
critical  time  in  the  history  of  the  United  Nations. 
Mr. Guterres’ undeniable commitment is the stronghold 
of  the  platform  and  the  priorities  that  he  envisions. 
The States members of the Asia-Pacific Group pledge 
their  firm  support  to  him  in  encountering  the  new 
and  emerging  challenges  that  lie  ahead.  That  unified 
support  embodies  the  confidence  of  knowing  that  the 
Secretary-General-designate  is  well  suited  to  head 
our Organization.
We  all  aspire  to  put  an  end  to  the  prolonged 
conflicts transpiring in certain parts of our world, which 
constitute  threats  to  international  peace  and  security. 
We stand with the Secretary-General-designate in his 
coming  efforts  to  mediate  those  grave  disputes.  We 
believe that his leadership, together with our collective 
efforts encompassing the principles and purposes of the 
Charter of the United Nations as an integral tool, will 
assist in attaining a peaceful solution and reconciliation.
We remain confident that, in the light of the need 
to  promote  development  and  growth,  the  Secretary-
General-designate  will  persevere  in  achieving  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  with  high  hopes  for 
their ultimate realization. His statesmanship and years 
of  diplomacy  will  foster  further  strengthening  of  the 
structure  of  the  United  Nations.  While  reinforcing 
multilateralism,  Mr.  Guterres  will,  we  trust,  engage 
in  the  ongoing  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  as 
revitalization will ensure the Organization’s resilience 
in tackling the various challenges faced.
extremism, 
xenophobia, 
racism,  religious  intolerance  and  their  ramifications 
have  led  to  daunting  concerns  worldwide.  They  are 
among  the  foremost  issues  on  which  the  Secretary-
General-designate needs to raise awareness and counter 
the resulting threats through international cooperation.
As Mr. Guterres assumes the position of Secretary-
General, I wish to quote Sir Isaac Newton, one of the 
most  historically  influential  people,  with  the  hope 
that it will serve him well in his effort to pacify social 
tensions,  “We  build  too  many  walls  and  not  enough 
bridges”.  We,  the  States  members  of  the  Asia-Pacific 
Group, trust that he will confront relevant issues with 
resolute  determination.  It  is  our  hope  that,  under  his 
leadership, we, as nations united, will build the bridges 
Terrorism, 
violent 
16-32309
5/11
A/71/PV.27 
13/10/2016
needed to pave the way to a peaceful, prosperous and 
just world.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Georgia, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Eastern European States.
Mr.  Imnadze  (Georgia):  I  am  honoured  to  make 
this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Eastern 
European States. It is my great pleasure to congratulate 
His Excellency Mr. António Guterres on his successful 
completion of the journey to become the next Secretary-
General. His outstanding experience in top positions at 
both  the  national  and  the  international  levels  and  his 
vision  of  effective  multilateralism  reassure  us  of  his 
masterly stewardship of the Organization in the years 
to come. We rely on his courage and wisdom to make 
an important and lasting contribution to our common
“quest  for  a  peaceful,  inclusive  and  sustainably 
developed  world,  in  which  international  law  and 
the  dignity  and  worth  of  the  human  person  are 
fully pursued”,
as he stated in his vision statement of 12 April before 
the General Assembly.
The selection of Mr. Guterres as Secretary-General 
is  even  more  important  owing  to  the  transparent  and 
inclusive process in which he and the other candidates 
took part for the first time in the history of the United 
Nations.  We  acknowledge  the  highly  professional 
performance  on  the  part  of  each  candidate,  including 
those from the Eastern European Group.
strengthening 
We  further  look  forward  to  building  upon  the 
success  achieved  through  the  ground-breaking  work 
on  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly,  as 
reflected  in  resolutions  69/321  and  70/305,  in  terms 
of 
the  Assembly’s  accountability, 
transparency  and  institutional  memory.  We  remain 
committed  to  exploring  ways  of  further  improving 
the  process,  including  by  further  promoting  gender 
equality  and  regional  balance  in  selecting  candidates 
for positions as high-ranking United Nations officials.
The  leadership  of  the  Secretary-General  will  be 
pivotal  as  we  strive  to  implement  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development and address the question 
of climate change. His role as the top United Nations 
diplomat  will  be  crucial  in  tackling  the  looming 
humanitarian  crises  in  the  world  and  in  negotiating 
solutions for countries emerging from conflict, as well 
as protracted conflicts and sustaining peace.
As the leader serving 7 billion persons around the 
globe,  his  determination  to  foster  respect  for  human 
rights  will  be  decisive.  We  fully  support  the  holistic 
approach  of  connecting  the  dots  so  as  to  overcome 
the  challenges  among  the  three  pillars  of  the  United 
Nations,  namely,  peace  and  security,  sustainable 
development and human rights, by developing policies 
to further enhance the role and relevance of the United 
Nations.
We  thank  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his tireless work and dedication. 
The  Secretary-General  designate,  Mr.  António 
Guterres,  will  be  able  to  count  on  unsparing  support 
and cooperation on the part of our regional Group.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Chile, who will speak on behalf of the 
Group of Latin American and Caribbean States.
to 
Mr. Barros Melet (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): On 
behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean 
States,  I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  and  extend  our 
warmest  congratulations 
the  newly  appointed 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  António  Guterres.  His  stature 
and  diplomatic  competence,  together  with  his  broad 
experience  in  many  areas,  make  him  an  eminently 
suitable  person  for  this  demanding  key  position, 
at  a  time  when  the  international  community  has 
taken  the  historical  commitment  to  free  the  human 
race  from  poverty,  as  set  out  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
His  10-year  experience  as  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Refugees has become more relevant 
than ever, as we face large movements of refugees and 
migrants, one of our most pressing challenges. We are 
confident  that  Mr.  Guterres  will  undertake  his  role 
in  a  manner  based  on  independence  and  committed 
leadership,  thus  instilling  the  highest  standards  of 
integrity  within  the  United  Nations  system,  while 
promoting unity and understanding in seeking the best 
global solutions. We are also confident that Mr. Guterres 
will  introduce  a  renewed  impetus  for  promoting  the 
maintenance of international peace and security.
to  continuing 
The  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  Group  looks 
forward 
its  close  and  cooperative 
relationship with the United Nations in various fields, 
including development, the Sustainable Developments 
Goals, 
security, 
decolonization, human rights and democracy.
change, 
climate 
peace 
and 
6/11 
16-32309
13/10/2016 
A/71/PV.27
Our  Group  extends  its  appreciation  to  all  of  the 
candidates  that  participated  in  the  selection  process, 
including in the interactive dialogues with the General 
Assembly,  contributing  to  the  process’  transparency 
and openness. The Group also highlights the role played 
by the General Assembly in that process, in accordance 
with the Charter of the United Nations and resolutions 
69/321  and  70/305,  and  further  stresses  the  need  to 
ensure the implementation of the provisions, inter alia, 
on the fair and equal distribution of senior posts, based 
on gender and geographical balance.
Finally,  I  wish  to  convey  our  Group’s  deepest 
appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
continuous  efforts  and  contribution  to  the  success  of 
the United Nations, under his decade-long leadership. 
We  look  forward  to  his  ongoing  leadership  until  the 
conclusion of his term.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, who will speak on behalf of the 
Group of Western European and other States.
Mr. Rycroft  (United  Kingdom):  On  behalf  of  the 
Group  of  Western  European  and  other  States,  it  is  an 
honour and a privilege to address the Assembly as we 
welcome the appointment of Mr. António Guterres as 
the  next  Secretary-General.  Today,  Mr.  Guterres,  the 
former Prime Minister of Portugal and former United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees,  has  been 
selected  to  serve  as  the  Head  of  the  Organization. 
We  offer  him  our  warmest  congratulations  and  look 
forward to working with him from January.
From his first day in office, we pledge to provide 
our fullest support to Mr. Guterres, and we commit to 
assisting him in upholding the purposes and principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations. We look to him to 
manage the Secretariat efficiently and effectively and 
to advance much-needed reforms so as to enhance the 
ability of the United Nations to face the challenges of 
the century, and we express our utmost confidence in his 
experience, ability and skills to lead this Organization 
over the coming years.
In doing so, we also express our deep gratitude to 
the outgoing Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, as 
he concludes his second term at the end of the year. We 
applaud his leadership on the Sustainable Development 
Goals,  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  on 
human rights and on so many other issues over the past 
10 years, and we look to him to continue his vital work 
until the end of his tenure.
We  also  pay  tribute  to  the  Assembly  for  the  role 
it  has  played  in  improving  the  selection  process.  The 
enhancements set out in resolutions 69/321 and 70/305, 
in particular, have brought unprecedented transparency, 
effectiveness  and  inclusivity  to  the  selection  of  the 
Secretary-General.  Moreover,  we  welcome  the  fact 
that  it  was  possible  to  conclude  the  process  quickly, 
effectively  and  consensually  in  the  Security  Council, 
enabling a smooth transition for Mr. Guterres as well 
as sufficient time for him to prepare for his new role. 
Together,  the  Assembly  has  set  a  new  standard  for 
the  process  and  should  continue  to  encourage  more 
transparency and equitability in the future.
In  closing,  we  offer  our  congratulations  again  to 
Mr. Guterres and look forward to his leadership.  His 
tenure  comes  at  a  time  when  the  challenges  to  this 
Organisation  and  the  multilateral  system  as  a  whole 
are becoming even more complex. Peace and security 
crises  are  having  significant  humanitarian,  human 
rights  and  development  impacts  around  the  world.  A 
strong  United  Nations  is  needed  more  than  ever,  and 
today  we  have  chosen  a  strong  Secretary-General  to 
lead it.
It  now  falls  to  us,  the  Member  States,  to  support 
Mr.  Guterres  and  to  cooperate  closely  with  him  on 
decisions that can maintain, strengthen and solidify the 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  addressing  the  greatest 
global challenges.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of the host country.
Ms.  Power  (United  States  of  America):  As  the 
proud  host  country  of  the  United  Nations,  the  United 
States  joins  all  the  other  delegations  in  this  Hall  in 
welcoming the appointment of António Guterres as the 
next Secretary-General.
Let  me  start  by  saying  a  word  about  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon, who over the past 10 years has 
shown that progress can be made by setting ambitious 
goals  and  mobilizing  Member  States  to  meet  them. 
Secretary-General Ban was instrumental in driving the 
momentum and the concrete commitments necessary to 
achieve both the historic Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change and the Sustainable Development Goals. They 
are  achievements  that  —  if  implemented  by  Member 
States  —  will  improve  people’s  lives  for  decades  to 
16-32309
7/11
A/71/PV.27 
13/10/2016
come.  The  United  States  is  profoundly  grateful  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  for  his  leadership  and  his 
service to our peoples and to our planet.
The  selection  of  António  Guterres  as  the  ninth 
Secretary-General  is  an  extraordinary  outcome  that 
matches  the  world’s  growing  demands  for  a  strong 
United  Nations.  It  is  all  the  more  extraordinary 
because — let us be honest — all too often at the United 
Nations, narrow agendas keep us divided and prevent 
us  from  taking  constructive  action.  I  would  like  to 
highlight three ways in which this appointment and the 
process that gave rise to it exceeded expectations. This 
should inspire us all going forward.
First,  given  the  well-known  divisions  in  the 
Security Council, many feared that the Council would 
fail to reach consensus on the next Secretary-General. 
I confess that I harboured some of those doubts myself, 
wondering  if  I  should  avoid  making  Christmas  plans 
with  my  family  in  case  the  process  dragged  on  and  I 
would end up spending Christmas Day on our forty-ninth 
Security  Council  straw  poll.  Others  thought  —  given 
the polarization of the Council — that we would agree 
on  a  recommendation  to  the  General  Assembly,  but 
that  we  would  necessarily  have  to  settle  for  a  lowest-
common-denominator candidate, someone who would 
avoid taking stands on the world’s most pressing issues.
We  have  the  privilege  today  of  appointing  a 
supremely  qualified  candidate  as  Secretary-General, 
but also one who has a passion for using that office as 
an independent force to prevent conflict and to alleviate 
human  suffering.  The  countries  of  the  world  —  here 
reflecting, I believe, the longings and the urgent needs 
of our citizens — are calling on the United Nations, and 
by  extension,  the  Secretary-General,  to  do  more  than 
this institution has ever done before.
For the United Nations to succeed, we are asking 
Mr.  Guterres  to  serve  as  a  peacemaker,  looking  for 
ways  to  end  the  brutal  conflicts  in  places  like  Syria, 
Yemen, and South Sudan. We are asking him to serve as 
a  reformer,  streamlining  the  bureaucracy,  eliminating 
redundancies  and  making  sure  that  peacekeepers 
are  willing  and  able  to  protect  civilians  at  risk.  And 
we  are  asking  him  to  serve  as  an  advocate,  rallying 
the  world  to  respond  to  humanitarian  and  man-made 
catastrophes,  and  defending  the  human  rights  of  all 
people,  regardless  of  their  race,  creed,  nationality, 
sexual orientation or gender identity. As challenging as 
those roles may be, we are confident that Mr. Guterres 
can fill them with distinction.
Secondly, there were fears that the decision-making 
process for such a critical position would again end up 
being narrow, exclusive and shrouded in secrecy. Even 
though  fewer  people  smoke  cigarettes  in  2016,  the 
image of a few countries huddled in smoke-filled rooms 
pervaded. But this year, at long last, the process evolved. 
For the first time, those vying for the job had to defend 
their visions for a more secure, just and humane future in 
informal dialogues that the entire world could watch in 
real time. And those conversations mattered — there is 
no question that the dialogues in the General Assembly 
and  elsewhere  shaped  perceptions  and 
informed 
the  thinking  of  the  Council  and  the  broader  United 
Nations membership from the outset. I thank all of the 
exceptional  candidates  who  participated  in  that  more 
inclusive,  more  transparent  process,  and  the  United 
States  thanks  all  Member  States  that  contributed  to 
making that process so much stronger.
Of course, some envisaged that change would look 
a little different in the end. Hopes were high that this 
election  process  would  deliver  the  first-ever  woman 
Secretary-General.  As  the  only  woman  Permanent 
Representative serving in the current Security Council 
and as one of only 37 women Permanent Representatives 
out  of  the  193  Permanent  Representatives  in  the 
Organization,  I  joined  others  in  encouraging  a  level 
playing field for women. And we should consider that 
until this year, only three women were ever voted upon 
by the Security Council as candidates — three women 
over the course of 70 years. This time, seven out of the 
13 candidates voted upon by the Security Council were 
women. So, over twice as many women were considered 
in 2016 as in all of the previous years together.
While being a woman is not among Mr. Guterres’s 
many qualifications, he has pledged gender parity at all 
levels of the United Nations, with clear benchmarks and 
time frames. That builds upon Mr. Guterres’s progress 
towards achieving gender parity in the workplace as the 
United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  and 
back when he was the Portuguese Prime Minister.
Thirdly  and  finally,  there  was  scepticism  that  we 
could  find  in  a  single  candidate  a  person  who  could 
simultaneously  get  Heads  of  State  on  the  phone  to 
mobilize  coalitions  and  be  a  person  of  the  people, 
someone who really appreciated — indeed, felt — the 
pain  of  the  vulnerable.  And  vulnerable  people  do  not 
8/11 
16-32309
13/10/2016 
A/71/PV.27
just want the United Nations to do and be better; they 
need the Organization and for us to be and do better.
that I stand before the Assembly today; those feelings 
are now joined by a profound sense of responsibility.
In Mr. Guterres, we have selected a candidate who 
brings both head and heart to the job. Former staff of 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Refugees (UNHCR) have described Mr. Guterres as 
so impatient to find out the facts of a crisis that he never 
hesitated to call staff in the field, no matter what their 
rank  or  their  place  in  the  hierarchy.  He  always  asked 
how  UNHCR  headquarters  could  serve  their  needs, 
rather  than  the  other  way  around.  When  he  saw  that 
UNHCR teams in the field were starved for resources, 
he  shifted  funds  to  help  refugees  in  need,  instead  of 
adding  jobs  in  Geneva.  And  he  got  out  from  behind 
his desk. Mr. Guterres travelled to the refugee camps 
and  witnessed  for  himself  the  current  crises  and  the 
pain and suffering of the displaced, even spending the 
night in tents in the refugee camps. We have selected 
a candidate who is prepared to cut past the jargon and 
the acronyms and the sterile briefings, and get real. He 
knows that the only measure of our work here is whether 
we are or are not helping and supporting real people.
In  closing,  in  1953,  the  first  Secretary-General, 
Trygve  Lie,  who  was  heavily  criticized  by  both  the 
Soviet  and  the  United  States  Governments,  was  so 
frustrated  by  the  limits  of  his  office  that  his  parting 
advice  to  his  successor  was,  “Welcome  to  the  most 
impossible  job  on  this  Earth”.  The  job  has  not  grown 
easier with time, but it has arguably become even more 
important.
I  wish  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
and  Mrs.  Ban  again  for  their  tireless,  tremendous 
service  and  for  their  sacrifice.  I  thank  the  Secretary-
General  designate,  Mr.  Guterres,  for  taking  on  this 
monumental  responsibility.  We  hope  that  the  unity 
that we see today can be sustained, the inclusivity and 
transparency of the process extended and the passion of 
the Secretary-General-designate and that of Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  embodied  in  the  daily  work  of 
the Organization. We look forward to a partnership that 
pays dividends to the people out there who count on us.
The  President:  I  now  invite  His  Excellency 
Mr. António Guterres, Secretary-General-designate, to 
make a statement.
Mr. Guterres: When I heard the Security Council’s 
decision to recommend me to the General Assembly, my 
feelings could be described by just two words: gratitude 
and humility. It is with the same gratitude and humility 
I am grateful, first of all, to the General Assembly 
and  the  Security  Council  for  entrusting  me  with  the 
position of Secretary-General of the United Nations in a 
remarkable demonstration of consensus and unity. I am 
also grateful for the transparency and openness of the 
selection process and to the many competent, thoughtful 
and dedicated candidates who came forward. I believe 
that the new selection process has meant that the true 
winner today is the credibility of the United Nations. 
The  process  has  also  made  it  very  clear  to  me  that, 
having been chosen by all Member States, I must be at 
the service of them all equally and with no agenda but 
the one enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
I want to express my deep gratitude for the generous 
and kind words of the speakers who preceded me, but I 
must say that I am fully aware of the challenges that the 
United  Nations  faces  and  the  limitations  surrounding 
the  Secretary-General.  The  dramatic  problems  of 
today’s  complex  world  can  only  inspire  a  humble 
approach — one in which the Secretary-General alone 
neither  has  all  the  answers,  nor  seeks  to  impose  his 
own views and in which the Secretary-General makes 
his  good  offices  available,  working  as  a  convener,  a 
mediator, a bridge-builder and an honest broker to help 
find solutions that benefit everyone involved.
Over  the  past  10  years,  I  have  witnessed  at  first 
hand  the  suffering  of  the  most  vulnerable  people  on 
Earth.  I  have  visited  war  zones  and  refugee  camps 
where one might legitimately ask: what has happened 
to the dignity and worth of the human person, referred 
to in the second preambular paragraph of the Charter? 
What has made us immune to the plight of those who 
are  most  socially  and  economically  underprivileged? 
All  of  that  makes  me  feel  the  acute  responsibility  to 
make human dignity the core of my work and, I trust, 
the core of our common work.
It  also  underscores  the  importance  of  gender 
equality.  I  have  long  been  aware  of  the  hurdles  that 
women  face  in  society,  the  family  and  the  workplace 
just  because  of  their  gender.  I  have  witnessed  the 
violence to which they are subjected during conflict or 
while  fleeing  violence,  just  because  they  are  women. 
I  have  tried  to  address  that  problem  through  every 
public office that I have ever held. The protection and 
empowerment of women and gender parity within the 
16-32309
9/11
A/71/PV.27 
13/10/2016
Organization  are  and  will  continue  to  be  a  priority 
commitment for me.
I  have  faith  in  the  United  Nations  —  a  reform-
minded  United  Nations  —  because  I  believe  in  the 
universal  values  that  it  stands  for,  namely,  peace, 
justice, human dignity, tolerance and solidarity. Based 
on those values, I believe that diversity in all its forms 
is a tremendous asset, not a threat, and that in societies 
that  are  more  and  more  multi-ethnic,  multicultural 
and multireligious, diversity can bring us together and 
should not drive us apart. We must make sure that we 
are able to break the alliance between all those terrorist 
groups  or  violent  extremists,  on  one  side,  and  the 
expressions of populism and xenophobia, on the other. 
They  reinforce  one  another,  and  we  must  be  able  to 
fight both of them with determination.
(spoke in French)
Without  peace,  life  is  devoid  of  all  its  meaning. 
Without  peace,  we  cannot  ensure  the  sustainable 
development and respect for human rights that, in turn, 
underpin peace. Unfortunately, peace today is largely 
lacking in our world.
Because  of  its  global  reach  and  the  principles 
enshrined  in  the  Charter,  the  United  Nations  has  the 
moral obligation and universal right to use diplomacy 
to  achieve  peace  as  its  primary  responsibility.  That 
diplomacy  must  be  able  to  promote  diversity  and  the 
representative  character  of  the  United  Nations;  it 
must facilitate a forum for dialogue in a public space 
open to all, so that we can learn to work together and 
better know and listen to one another; and it must be 
able  to  ease  tensions  and  arrive  at  peaceful  solutions 
to  conflicts  that  prevent  so  many  human  beings  from 
leading their lives in a manner worthy of that word.
When I studied history in high school — and I must 
say that I studied with passion — almost all wars ended 
with  victors.  But  today’s  conflicts  know  only  losers. 
Wars  seem  endless;  they  are  becoming  increasingly 
complex  and  interconnected,  and  fuel  hatred  and 
terrorism.  At  the  same  time,  the  suffering  that  they 
cause is morally intolerable, and security is threatened 
everywhere.  It  is  our  collective  responsibility  to  end 
that state of affairs.
I  am  well  aware  that  among  us  there  are  various 
views  and  sometimes  competing  legitimate  interests 
that  create  division  and  make  our  unified  efforts 
towards peace difficult. But the threats to our collective 
security,  the  nature  of  our  societies  and  the  survival 
of the planet as we know it are such that our common 
interest  must  prevail  against  all  that  divides  us.  Let 
us unite for the sake of peace. That is the most urgent 
demand  of  the  citizens  of  the  world  that  we  are  here 
to serve.
(spoke in Spanish)
I  would  like  to  convey  my  appreciation  for  the 
tireless efforts of the peacekeepers who, deployed far 
from their homes, defend the principles of the United 
Nations. I also would like to call on all Member States 
and  structures  of  the  Organization  for  their  support 
in  not  allowing  repugnant  behaviour  to  damage  the 
reputation of the heroic efforts carried out in the service 
of the United Nations. It is within the United Nations and 
under its blue flag that the world can meet together and 
build  peace,  with  determination,  creativity,  solidarity 
and compassion.
(spoke in English)
Allow me, before finishing, to salute the Secretary-
General,  Ban  Ki-moon.  I  had  the  honour  of  working 
with  him  throughout  many  years  and  have  witnessed 
his  unfailing  dedication  to  the  cause  of  international 
public service. I will do my utmost to honour Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon’s legacy. What he has achieved, in particular 
in  relation 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change, is absolutely remarkable, and I will do my best 
to support the efforts necessary to fully implement what 
has been accomplished thus far, thanks to his guidance 
and leadership.
to 
I  also  want  to  express  my  admiration  for  the 
dedication  and  commitment  of  the  United  Nations 
staff. Having been a staff member for over a decade, I 
am thrilled with the prospect of becoming a colleague 
once again.
(spoke in French)
The  dream  of  the  founders  of  the  United  Nations 
has  yet  to  be  fulfilled.  Much  has  been  accomplished, 
but the road ahead remains long. We must embark on 
that road together, we, the people, in our various roles, 
because  the  goal  is  within  reach  —  the  well-being 
of humankind.
The  President: 
Secretary-
General-designate for his statement, and I request the 
Chief of Protocol to escort him to room GA-200.
the 
I 
thank 
10/11 
16-32309
13/10/2016 
A/71/PV.27
The  Secretary-General-designate  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
The President: Before proceeding further, I would 
like to inform members that the oath of office ceremony 
will  take  place  at  a  later  date,  to  be  announced.  I 
would also like to inform members that the Secretary-
General-designate  will  be  in  the  West  Foyer  in  10 
minutes to receive felicitations.
We  have  thus  concluded  our  consideration  of 
agenda item 113.
The meeting rose at 11.15 a.m.
16-32309
11/11
