United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
37th plenary meeting
Monday, 31 October 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.37
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Tribute to the memory of His Highness Sheikh 
Khalifa bin Hamad Al-Thani, former Amir of the 
State of Qatar
The President: We were informed last week of the 
passing  of  His  Highness  Sheikh  Khalifa  bin  Hamad 
Al-Thani,  the  former  Amir  of  the  State  of  Qatar.  The 
former  Amir  was  a  visionary  leader  who  oversaw  his 
country’s  independence  and  led  it  to  prosperity  and 
the  rapid  development  of  its  economy.  This  is  a  time 
of  grief  for  the  royal  family  and  the  Government  and 
the  people  of  Qatar.  I  would  like  to  convey  to  them 
our deepest condolences and to invite the Assembly to 
join me in observing a minute of silence in honour of 
His Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Hamad Al-Thani, the 
former Amir of the State of Qatar.
The members of the General Assembly observed a 
minute of silence.
Agenda item 72
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (A/71/342)
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/71/346 and 
A/71/349)
The  President:  It  is  my  pleasure  to  welcome 
Judge  Silvia  Alejandra  Fernández  de  Gurmendi, 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  to  the 
General Assembly.
  It  has  been  18  years  since  countries  from  every 
region  of  our  world  came  together  in  Rome.  Bearing 
in  mind  the  millions  of  children,  women  and  men 
who  have  been  victims  of  unimaginable  atrocities 
that  deeply  shock  the  conscience  of  humankind,  and 
recognizing that such grave crimes threaten the peace, 
security and well-being of the world, they resolved, for 
the sake of present and future generations, to establish 
the International Criminal Court, with jurisdiction over 
the most serious crimes of concern to the international 
community, in order to put an end to impunity for the 
perpetrators of such crimes and thereby to contribute to 
their prevention.
In the nearly two decades that have passed since then, 
conscience of the international community continues to 
be shocked by the atrocities being perpetrated against 
innocent  victims  every  day.  It  is  therefore  imperative 
that we draw on the spirit that led to the establishment 
of the Court, in order to strengthen, not diminish, our 
resolve  to  end  impunity  for  the  perpetrators  of  those 
crimes.  I  particularly  encourage  States  parties  to 
continue to work to promote the effective functioning 
of the Court and the universality of the Rome Statute. 
This  is  a  time  when  we  should  reflect  on  the 
Court’s important place in the international system in 
promoting the rule of law and protecting human rights. 
And  we  should  remember  that,  whatever  our  status 
may be in relation to the Court, we are all united in the 
shared belief that some crimes are so serious that they 
call on our collective conscience to act to put an end to 
impunity for those who perpetrate them. Their victims 
deserve and demand nothing less from us all.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-35110 (E)
*1635110*
A/71/PV.37 
31/10/2016
It is now my honour to invite Judge Fernández de 
Gurmendi to take the floor.
Judge  Fernández  de  Gurmendi  (International 
Criminal  Court):  It  is  an  honour  to  be  here  today  to 
present the annual report of the International Criminal 
Court (ICC) (see A/71/342) to the General Assembly.
(spoke in Spanish)
I would like to take this opportunity to respectfully 
greet  the  Spanish-speaking  delegations  here  before 
continuing my briefing in the two working languages 
of the Court, French and English.
(spoke in English)
This reporting period has been a very busy year for 
the  ICC,  with  unprecedented  judicial  activity.  A  new 
chapter opened for the Court with its transition to its 
new,  purpose-built  permanent  premises,  and  we  were 
honoured  to  have  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
speak at the opening ceremony in April.
I  would  like  to  begin  my  briefing  by  expressing 
my  deep  gratitude  to  Mr.  Ban  for  his  unwavering, 
principled and strong support of the Court throughout 
his term as Secretary-General. I also greatly appreciate 
his  dedicated  service  to  the  international  community 
and  his  enormous  efforts  in  furtherance  of  peace, 
justice, tolerance, the rule of law and the protection of 
human rights. I would also like to take this opportunity 
to  warmly  congratulate  Mr  António  Guterres  on  his 
appointment as the next Secretary-General. The Court 
looks forward to working with him.
As  always,  the  Court  greatly  appreciates  the 
cooperation it receives from the United Nations. This 
cooperation  ranges  from  logistical  assistance  in  the 
field  to  administrative  and  personnel  arrangements, 
judicial assistance and the provision of services such as 
those relating to security, satellite communications and 
the use of conference facilities. In accordance with its 
Relationship  Agreement  with  the  United  Nations,  the 
Court  reimburses  the  Organization  for  the  assistance 
it receives.
Earlier this year, the Court was pleased to conclude 
a  memorandum  of  understanding  with  the  United 
Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization 
Mission in the Central African Republic, in line with 
previous  memorandums  concluded  with  other  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  missions  in  order  to  facilitate 
modalities  for  cooperation.  The  memorandum  of 
understanding  provides  for  assistance  for  all  parties 
and participants in the judicial proceedings.
The  past  year  has  been  very  eventful  in  terms  of 
judicial  developments  at  the  ICC.  Three  judgements 
were issued since my last report (see A/70/PV.48). Two 
trials were held in their entirety, two are ongoing and 
another  is  set  to  start  soon.  Following  convictions, 
reparations proceedings are under way in four cases.
In  the  situation  in  the  Central  African  Republic, 
Mr.  Jean-Pierre  Bemba  Gombo  was  convicted  in  the 
first  instance  for  failure  to  punish  or  prevent  crimes 
committed by his subordinates. He was sentenced to an 
18-year term of imprisonment for rape as a war crime 
and a crime against humanity, to be served concurrently 
with  a  16-year  sentence  in  relation  to  murder  as  a 
war  crime  and  a  crime  against  humanity,  and  to  the 
war  crime  of  pillaging.  The  Trial  Chamber  stressed 
that  the  especially  grave  nature  and  consequences 
of  sexual  crimes,  particularly  against  children,  was 
acknowledged by the States parties in the Rome Statute. 
The Trial Chamber further found that the instances of 
rape  were  exceedingly  grave  with  regard  to  both  the 
cultural context and the lasting damage to the victims, 
their  families  and  communities.  Both  the  judgment 
on  conviction  and  the  sentence  are  currently  being 
appealed  before  the  Appeals  Chamber.  Reparations 
proceedings have begun.
The  Court  held  its  first  trial  in  relation  to  the 
situation  in  Mali,  which  lasted  only  three  days,  after 
the  accused  admitted  his  guilt.  Mr.  Ahmad  Al-Faqi 
Al-Mahdi,  who  used  to  be  a  prominent  figure  of  a 
splinter group of Al-Qaida, pleaded guilty to the war 
crime of attacking protected objects, in relation to the 
destruction of 10 buildings of a religious and historical 
character  in  Timbuktu,  Mali.  He  was  sentenced  to 
nine years of imprisonment, and that sentence has now 
become final since it was not appealed.
In rendering its sentence, the Trial Chamber held 
that  crimes  against  property  are  generally  of  lesser 
gravity  than  crimes  against  persons.  However,  the 
crime  for  which  Mr.  Al-Mahdi  was  convicted  was 
of  significant  gravity,  taking  into  consideration  the 
symbolic  and  emotional  value  of  the  buildings,  their 
religious  character  and  the  discriminatory  religious 
motive invoked for the destruction.
From  September  2015  to  April  2016,  the  Court 
held  its  first  trial  on  charges  of  offences  against  the 
administration of justice in the Bemba et al. case. On 
2/28 
16-35110
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.37
19 October, the Trial Chamber found the five accused 
guilty  of  various  offences  against  the  administration 
of  justice,  including  corruptly  influencing  witnesses. 
Penalties will be pronounced at a subsequent date. The 
verdict is not yet final.
We  have  also  commenced  the  first  trial  in  the 
situation in Côte d’Ivoire, against Mr. Laurent Gbagbo 
and  Mr.  Charles  Blé  Goudé.  The  two  accused  are 
charged  with  the  crimes  against  humanity  of  murder, 
rape,  persecution  and  other  inhuman  acts  allegedly 
committed  during  post-election  violence  between 
December 2010 and April 2011.
In  the  situation  in  Uganda,  Pre-Trial  Chamber 
II  confirmed  a  total  of  70  charges  of  war  crimes  and 
crimes against humanity against Mr. Dominic Ongwen 
of  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army,  in  relation  to  alleged 
acts  of  murder,  rape,  sexual  slavery,  torture,  use  of 
child soldiers and other crimes. The trial is set to start 
on  6  December.  That  is  a  significant  development 
because more than 10 years have elapsed since arrest 
warrants were issued against Mr. Ongwen, Mr. Joseph 
Kony and others.
In another new development for the Court, for the 
first time we have sent convicted persons to serve their 
sentences  in  one  of  our  States  parties.  Mr.  Thomas 
Lubanga  Dyilo  and  Mr.  Germain  Katanga  both 
expressed  preference  to  serve  their  sentences  in  their 
home country, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
and that was made possible through the conclusion of 
ad hoc agreements with that country for that purpose, 
for which we are grateful.
Mr. Katanga’s sentence was concluded during the 
reporting period, after a panel of the Appeals Chamber 
decided to reduce it following a mandatory review after 
two  thirds  of  the  sentence  were  served.  The  judges 
concluded that there were several factors that favoured 
reducing  the  sentence,  including  Mr.  Katanga’s  early 
and continuing willingness to cooperate with the Court 
in its investigations and prosecutions, the fact that he 
had repeatedly and publicly taken responsibility for the 
crimes for which he was convicted and his expression of 
regret for the harm caused to the victims by his actions.
On  27  January,  Pre-Trial  Chamber  I  granted  the 
request of the Prosecutor to open an investigation into 
the situation in Georgia, in relation to crimes against 
humanity and war crimes allegedly committed between 
1 July and 10 October 2008. The Chamber recalled that 
its decision had the purpose of ensuring judicial control 
over  the  Prosecutor’s  proprio  motu  power  to  open  an 
investigation,  in  the  absence  of  a  referral  by  a  State 
party or by the Security Council.
The  Chamber’s  decision  makes  it  clear  that  the 
authorization  is  not  limited  to  any  specific  incidents 
or  alleged  crimes,  but  that  it  is  precisely  the  purpose 
of the investigation to determine which crimes, if any, 
may be prosecuted. Any future prosecution of specific 
individuals would again be subject to judicial control 
of the Pre-Trial Chamber, both at the stage of issuing 
arrest  warrants  or  summons  and  at  the  confirmation 
of charges.
The process that preceded the Pre-Trial Chamber’s 
decision provided an early opportunity to give a voice to 
victims in the Court’s proceedings. In accordance with 
the Rome Statute, the Chamber took into consideration 
representations on behalf of more than 6,000 victims in 
relation to the proposed investigation. The submission 
of these representations was facilitated through a field 
mission  undertaken  by  victim-participation  experts 
from the Registry of the Court.
The  Court  has  continued  its  work  in  relation  to 
its  unique  mandate  to  order  reparations  to  victims 
following  convictions  in  the  Lubanga  and  Katanga
cases, and it has initiated the reparations proceedings 
in  the  Bemba  and  Al-Mahdi  cases.  At  the  same  time, 
the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims  has  continued  activities 
under  its  assistance  mandate,  which  is  separate  from 
the judicial proceedings before the Court.
Together  with  its  locally  based  implementing 
partners,  the  Trust  Fund  has  been  assisting  victims 
in  northern  Uganda  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo.  It  is  now  also  planning  expansion  of  its 
assistance  activities  to  four  other  situations  before 
the  Court,  and  the  Board  of  Directors  has  approved 
an initial budget for this purpose. The Trust Fund for 
Victims plays a key role in implementing the principles 
of  reparative  justice  enshrined  in  the  Rome  Statute, 
but to do so effectively, it needs resources. I call upon 
all States and other donors to support the Trust Fund, 
so that it may expand and sustain assistance mandate 
programmes  and  maintain  and  increase  the  financial 
reserve  to  complement  the  payment  of  Court-ordered 
reparations awards.
(spoke in French)
In 
total,  10  situations  are  currently  under 
investigation  by  the  Court,  of  which  5  were  referred 
16-35110
3/28
A/71/PV.37 
31/10/2016
the  Prosecutor  by 
the  Government  of  Gabon  concerning 
to 
the  States  concerned.  On 
21  September,  the  Prosecutor  received  a  new  referral 
from 
the 
situation  unfolding  in  that  country  since  May  2016. 
The  Prosecutor  is  currently  conducting  a  preliminary 
examination  to  determine  whether  the  criteria  for 
opening an investigation under the Rome Statute have 
been met. The Prosecutor is also conducting nine other 
preliminary  examinations  on  situations  unfolding  on 
various continents.
The  assistance  and  cooperation  of  States  remain 
crucial  to  the  Court’s  ability  to  fulfil  its  mandate. 
In  accordance  with  the  Rome  Statute,  States  parties 
are  obligated  to  cooperate  fully  with  the  Court’s 
investigations  and  prosecutions.  Furthermore, 
the 
Security Council resolutions referring the situations in 
Darfur, in the Sudan, and Libya to the Prosecutor have 
imposed an obligation on the two States in question to 
cooperate fully with the Court in the context of those 
situationsand  have  urged  all  other  States  to  do  the 
same.The cooperation of all States, whether or not they 
are parties to the Rome Statute, is essential to enable 
impartialand effective investigations. Access to crime 
scenes and all relevant evidence, victims and witnesses 
is crucial for the judicial process.
The Court greatly appreciates the numerous States 
that  provide  active  support.  We  endeavour  to  nurture 
these  relations  through  various  initiatives,  including 
cooperation seminars and workshops. There are many 
priority  areas  for  the  Court,  but  I  would  particularly 
like to highlight the continued need for the relocation 
of  witnesses  under  threat,  assistance  with  financial 
investigations and the arrest and transfer of suspects. It 
is of great concern that requests for arrest and transfer 
issued by the Court remain outstanding with respect to 
13 individuals, some of which have not been carried out 
for over 10 years.
Improving  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of 
the  Court’s  operations  remains  my  main  priority  as 
President of this institution. All organs of the Court have 
embarked  upon  reforms  to  improve  its  performance. 
Efforts  made  in  this  regard,  including  the  collective 
efforts of judges to expedite judicial proceedings, have 
already  begun  to  produce  concrete  results  in  recent 
proceedings.
I have just returned from the second judges’ retreat, 
where we took our reforms further this time by tackling 
issues relating to trials as well as the legal representation 
of  victims.  Once  again,  by  analysing  and  comparing 
our  experiences,  we  have  identified  common  ground 
and best practices. I am confident that the results will 
soon become visible. In addition, in the context of the 
overarching effort to improve effectiveness, the Court 
has made significant progress in developing qualitative 
and quantitative indicators to measure performance. A 
report on this progress will be submitted in the coming 
days to the Assembly of States Parties.
We  have  also  seen  recent  developments  that 
are  not  the  work  of  the  Court  but  do  contribute  to 
strengthening  an  effective  system  of  justice  based 
on  the  Rome  Statute.  In  this  respect,  I  welcome  the 
establishment  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
Bar  Association  by  the  defence  counsel  and  the  legal 
representatives  of  victims  —  an  association  with 
the  aim  of  reinforcing  the  independence  of  counsel, 
strengthening  the  equality  of  arms  and  enhancing 
the  quality  of  justice  of  the  Court.  I  fully  agree  with 
these objectives. Professional counsel and an effective 
defence are essential to a fair and efficient system of 
justice.  In  this  respect,  I  urge  all  States  to  respond 
favourably to requests for cooperation emanating from 
defence teams participating in ICC proceedings.
Since  my  last  report,  we  have  welcomed  a  new 
member to the family of ICC States parties. I reiterate 
here  my  warmest  congratulations  to  the  Republic  of 
El  Salvador  for  its  historic  decision  to  join  the  Rome 
Statute, which is a decision in favour of justice, peace 
and global solidarity. I was delighted to facilitate the 
process personally by participating in detailed technical 
discussions on the Rome Statute with the Salvadorian 
parliamentarians.
I  also  welcome  the  accession  of  Samoa  to  the 
Agreement  on  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court,  bringing 
total 
number of parties to the Agreement to 75. I encourage 
all remaining States parties and other interested States 
to consider ratifying this Agreement.
the 
Finally, since my last report, six States have ratified 
the  Kampala  Amendments  to  article  8  of  the  Rome 
Statue. Eight States have ratified the Amendments on 
the crime of aggression, bringing the total number of 
ratifications for both Amendments to 32.
On 26 June 2017, the Amendments on the crime of 
aggression  will  have  entered  into  force  for  30  States. 
The  Court  will  have  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of 
aggression  once  a  decision  is  taken  by  a  two-thirds 
4/28 
16-35110
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.37
majority  of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  after 
1 January 2017 to grant it.
(spoke in English)
I would now like to refer to the recent announcements 
of  withdrawals  from  the  Rome  Statute,  the  founding 
Treaty of the Court. In this regard, I wish to reaffirm 
the importance of the continued commitment of States 
and  the  international  community  to  investigating  and 
prosecuting the most serious crimes and to protecting 
victims  across  the  world.  The  past  two  decades  have 
witnessed  huge  progress  in  the  consolidation  of 
international criminal justice as a fundamental part of 
the international community’s response to conflict and 
mass atrocities.
In 1998, the ICC was created by countries with the 
support of civil society from all continents to investigate 
and prosecute perpetrators of genocide, crimes against 
humanity  and  war  crimes,  by  whomever  committed. 
Over  the  years,  additional  States  have  continued  to 
join  the  Court  and  contributed  to  its  effectiveness  by 
cooperating  with  its  activities.  In  creating  the  Court 
as  a  permanent  and  independent  judicial  institution, 
States  recognize  the  link  between  justice,  peace 
and  sustainable  development  and  reaffirmed  their 
commitment to fighting impunity.
Most  recently,  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  in  particular  Sustainable  Development 
Goal  16,  demonstrates  that  connection.  The  ICC  can 
contribute to the goal of providing access to justice for 
all  and  building  effective,  accountable  and  inclusive 
institutions.  The  Court  was  not  created  to  replace  or 
compete with States; on the contrary, States have the 
duty and indeed the right to investigate and prosecute 
these crimes themselves in the first place. The role of 
the Court is to provide justice only when States fail to 
do so.
Since its creation, the Court has made significant 
achievements  in  addressing  crimes  of  concern  to  the 
international  community  as  a  whole,  such  as  the  use 
of  child  soldiers,  sexual  violence  in  conflict,  attacks 
on  civilians  and  the  destruction  of  cultural  property. 
Crucially, the creation of the ICC has given a voice to 
victims by allowing them to participate in the Court’s 
proceedings  and  request  reparations.  The  Trust  Fund 
for  Victims  associated  with  the  Court  has  already 
assisted more than 300,000 victims with physical and 
psychological rehabilitation as well as material support.
The Court is doing its work and has embarked on 
a  number  of  important  reforms  to  enhance  the  speed 
and  quality  of  prosecutions  and  judicial  proceedings. 
The  important  results  achieved  this  year  are  a  clear 
demonstration of the Court’s commitment to delivering 
high-quality justice. 
The work of the Court continues. In order to bring 
perpetrators  of  crimes  to  justice  and  protect  victims 
across the world equally, it is essential that support for 
the Court remain strong and that States’ participation 
in the Rome Statute be maintained and enlarged.
The  President:  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
International Criminal Court for her briefing.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the 
European Union.
Mr. Vale de Almeida (European Union): I have the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) 
and  its  28  member  States.  The  candidate  countries 
Montenegro,  Albania  and  Serbia;  the  country  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidate  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  and  Ukraine  and 
Georgia align themselves with this statement.
We  would  like  to  thank  President  Fernández  de 
Gurmendi  for  her  presence  here  in  New  York  and 
for  her  comprehensive  briefing.  We  also  thank  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) for its annual report 
to  the  United  Nations  (see  A/71/342),  covering  the 
period from August 2015 to July 2016, detailing what is 
described as a particularly busy year for the ICC.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
consider the fight against impunity for the most serious 
crimes to be critical for creating a fair and just society 
by holding the perpetrators accountable and ensuring 
justice for the victims. We also believe that peace and 
justice are complementary and not mutually exclusive. 
We are strong supporters of the International Criminal 
Court,  which  is  a  key  institution  for  helping  victims 
dealing with the most serious kinds of crimes to achieve 
justice when they cannot do so at the national level.
All  perpetrators  of  such  crimes  must  be  held 
accountable for their actions, and a key element of the 
Rome  Statute  is  its  equal  application.  In  that  regard, 
the  establishment  of  the  ICC  has  given  millions  of 
victims  of  atrocity  crimes  new  hope  that  justice  will 
be  done.  States  from  all  over  the  world  have  worked 
together to make this possible. Our strong policy in this 
respect has a firm institutional foundation in European 
16-35110
5/28
A/71/PV.37 
31/10/2016
Union  legislation,  which  is  adjusted  to  the  Court’s 
evolving activity.
community.  We  will  continue  to  work  tirelessly  to 
make the Rome Statute truly universal.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
therefore  regret  the  decisions  by  the  Republic  of 
South Africa and Burundi to withdraw from the Rome 
Statute. We also note with concern that the Gambia has 
announced its intention to withdraw. We join Mr. Sidiki 
Kaba, President of the Assembly of the States Parties to 
the Rome Statute, in inviting these States to reconsider 
their position. What was right in 1998 is still right. The 
world  needs  the  ICC,  and  the  ICC  needs  the  support 
of  every  country.  We  would  like  to  continue  our 
engagement with these countries and with all our other 
partners in determining how we can all continue to act 
constructively in furthering the important work of the 
International Criminal Court.
The primary responsibility for bringing offenders 
to justice lies with States themselves. Complementarity 
is a core principle of the Rome Statute. In order to make 
it  operational,  all  States  parties  have  to  prepare  and 
adopt effective national legislation so as to implement 
the  Rome  Statute  in  their  national  systems.  Through 
various  assistance 
instruments  and  projects,  we 
support  initiatives  that  focus  on  encouraging  States 
to cooperate in the fight against impunity for atrocity 
crimes,  including  through  improved  ways  to  provide 
mutual legal assistance.
investigation  by 
With  23  cases  in  10  situations  at  different  stages 
of  their  proceedings,  11  situations  under  preliminary 
examination  and  one  new 
the 
Prosecutor, the ICC is once again facing an increasing 
workload this year. It is worth noting that the Court is 
now conducting preliminary examinations and situation 
investigations  in  most  regions  of  the  world  —  Latin 
America, Asia, Africa and Europe. It remains a hope 
for justice and accountability in situations that would 
otherwise be hopeless.
A number of States have demonstrated their trust in 
that hope by submitting situations to the ICC. We note 
the  important  judicial  developments  as  the  Court  has 
fulfilled its mandate, as reflected in this year’s report. 
In the context of the Court’s increasing workload, we 
underline how important it is to ensure that it functions 
efficiently and effectively.
The  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which 
continues to be one of the main challenges facing the 
ICC,  is  essential  to  ensuring  accountability  for  the 
most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to  the  international 
encourage 
On 3 March, El Salvador deposited its instrument 
of accession to the Statute. We hope that El Salvador’s 
decision  will 
ratification  processes 
elsewhere in the world. We also note that the threshold 
of 30 ratifications of the Kampala Amendments on the 
crime of aggression, as provided for in resolution RC/
Res.6 of the Review Conference of the Rome Statute, 
adopted in 11 June 2010, has been met this year. During 
the  reporting  period,  the  EU  continued  to  engage  in 
promoting the universality of the Rome Statute and the 
Agreement on Privileges and Immunities, as well as a 
better understanding of the Court’s mandate.
Another  continuing  fundamental  challenge  is  the 
need  to  ensure  that  States  parties  cooperate  with  the 
ICC and that they do so in accordance with the Security 
Council  resolutions  that  refer  situations  to  the  Court. 
We  note  with  concern  instances  of  non-cooperation, 
including those that have been referred to the Security 
Council. We welcome the response of the President of 
the Security Council in December 2015 that decisions 
of the Court concerning non-cooperation were brought 
to the attention of Council members, and we encourage 
the Council to find ways to improve the implementation 
of  the  obligations  created  by  its  two  referrals  of  the 
situations in Darfur and in Libya.
Non-cooperation  with  the  Court  stifles  the  ICC’s 
capacity  to  deliver  justice.  We  call  on  all  States  to 
take  consistent  action  to  encourage  appropriate  and 
full cooperation with the Court, including the prompt 
execution  of  arrest  warrants.  We  also  reiterate  how 
crucial it is to ensure that all States refrain from helping 
to  shelter  or  hide  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious 
crimes, and that they take the necessary steps to bring 
those perpetrators to justice in order to end impunity.
We  welcome  the  efforts  of  States,  international 
organizations  and  civil  society  to  increase  their 
cooperation  with  the  ICC  and  their  assistance  to  it. 
We particularly commend the ongoing United Nations 
cooperation  with  the  Court,  which  is  detailed  in  the 
report, both at Headquarters and within United Nations 
specialized institutions and field missions. 
Our common goal continues to be the same — to 
further  strengthen  the  Court  so  that  it  can  fulfil  its 
mandate  effectively.  There  are  States  parties  to  the 
ICC  all  over  the  world,  and  they  share  ownership  of 
the  Rome  Statute.  We  will  continue  to  encourage  the 
6/28 
16-35110
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.37
widest possible participation in the Statute, support the 
independence  of  the  Court  and  promote  cooperation 
with it.
Ms.  Beckles  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  I  have  the 
honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
14  States  members  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM).
At  the  outset,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
unequivocal  commitment  to  upholding  the  purposes 
and  principles  on  which  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  was  founded.  We  also  wish  to  express 
our gratitude to the Secretary-General for the reports 
contained 
in  documents  A/71/342,  A/71/346  and 
A/71/349,  which  provide  useful  information  on  the 
Court’s activities in 2015 and 2016.
CARICOM remains fully committed to supporting 
the Court and its primary objective of helping to put an 
end to impunity for the most serious crimes of concern 
to the international community, as well as contributing 
to the prevention of such crimes, as listed under article 
5  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  ICC.  Within  our  own 
region, the late Arthur N. R. Robinson, former Prime 
Minister and President of Trinidad and Tobago, has been 
credited as one of the forefathers of the ICC through his 
pioneering work leading to the Court’s establishment.
Notwithstanding  its  many  challenges,  the  ICC 
continues  to  be  a  beacon  of  hope  to  the  victims  of 
crimes within its jurisdiction who are seeking justice. 
They  include  thousands  of  women  and  children,  who 
are  often  most  affected  by  the  actions  of  criminals 
who show blatant disregard for the sanctity of human 
life  by  violating  international  humanitarian  law  and 
international  human  rights.  In  that  regard,  we  are 
particularly  pleased  to  note  that  the  Trust  Fund  for 
Victims  provided  more  than  300,000  people  with 
psychological  and  physical  rehabilitation  as  well  as 
material  support.  We  therefore  recognize  the  ICC’s 
importance in promoting the rule of law, encouraging 
respect  for  human  rights,  and  achieving  sustainable 
peace  and  the  further  development  of  nations,  in 
accordance  with  international  law  and  the  purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
CARICOM  contends  that  the  success  of  the 
Court  is  intrinsically  linked  to  the  universality  of 
the  Rome  Statute.  We  are  therefore  convinced  that 
increased  cooperation  would  improve  the  Court’s 
ability to effectively discharge the mandate entrusted 
to it by the States parties. In that regard, we reiterate 
our  commitment  to  promoting  the  universality  of  the 
Statute and urge all States that have not yet done so to 
take the necessary steps to ratify and fully implement 
it with a view to promoting its universality.
We  welcome  the  most  recent  ratifications  of  the 
amendments  on  the  crime  of  aggression,  which  have 
brought the total to 32. CARICOM recalls the decision 
made  in  2010  at  the  Kampala  Review  Conference  of 
the Rome Statute under which the Court will be able to 
exercise jurisdiction over the crime of aggression once 
30  States  had  ratified  the  amendments,  subject  to  a 
decision by the Assembly of States Parties to activate it. 
We therefore look forward to the Assembly’s decision 
in that regard, which will be taken in 2017.
Cooperation  with  the  Court  remains  at  the  heart 
of the Rome Statute and is the duty not only of States 
parties but of all States Members of the United Nations, 
especially in cases referred to the Court by the Security 
Council. In the light of the concerns of some who see 
the  ICC’s  criminal  jurisdiction  as  a  possible  threat 
to  national  sovereignty,  we  would  like  to  recall  that, 
under  the  principle  of  complementarity  enshrined  in 
the  Rome  Statute,  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  is  invoked 
only when States are unable or unwilling to prosecute 
those deemed guilty of grave crimes of concern to the 
international community. No individual or State should 
fear the ICC, since it is a court of last resort.
Pursuant to the report of the Secretary-General on 
that  subject,  we  would  also  like  to  recall  that,  while 
the  Security  Council’s  ability  to  refer  a  situation  to 
the  Court  is  crucial  to  promoting  accountability,  it  is 
also  essential  to  conduct  active  follow-up  of  referrals 
to  ensure  cooperation  —  that  is,  to  obtain  the  arrest 
and surrender of individuals — so that effective justice 
can  be  delivered.  We  fully  agree  with  the  report’s 
contention  that  perceived  inaction  on  the  part  of  the 
Council  risks  undermining  both  its  own  credibility 
and  that  of  the  Court.  CARICOM  remains  deeply 
concerned  about  some  States’  failure  to  honour  their 
legally binding obligations to cooperate with the Court 
in the execution of outstanding arrest warrants. Those 
who fail to cooperate with the Court’s efforts to bring 
criminals  to  justice  are  contributing  to  a  culture  of 
impunity that not only undermines the rule of law but 
is also an affront to the victims of grave crimes.
CARICOM  commends 
to 
ensure that justice prevails and that criminals are not 
allowed  to  continue  their  activity  with  impunity.  We 
the  Court’s  efforts 
16-35110
7/28
A/71/PV.37 
31/10/2016
continue to be satisfied with the steadfast commitment 
and hard work of Ms. Fatou Bensouda, the Prosecutor, 
who  continues  to  discharge  her  mandate  in  a  manner 
consistent with the provisions of the Rome Statute. We 
take  note  of  the  preliminary  examinations  conducted 
in  11  countries  and  the  newly  opened  investigation 
following the Court’s judicial authorization.
Mr. Pecsteen de Buytswerve (Belgium), Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
However,  CARICOM  remains  concerned  about 
the  Court’s  unprecedented  workload,  with  four  cases 
simultaneously  in  the  trial  stage  and  several  others 
at  other  stages  of  their  proceedings.  To  mitigate  the 
situation, we reiterate our call for the ICC to be provided 
with the resources that it needs to properly discharge its 
mandate. CARICOM also urges States parties that have 
not yet done so to pay their outstanding contributions, 
so  as  to  ensure  that  the  Court  can  discharge  its 
responsibilities  effectively  and  efficiently.  We  also 
encourage  States  to  make  voluntary  contributions  to 
the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims  with  a  view  to  ensuring 
adequate reparations. Given article 115 (b) of the Rome 
Statute  and  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  ICC,  CARICOM  would  like 
to  recall  here  that  expenses  associated  with  Security 
Council  referrals  should  be  reimbursed  with  United 
Nations funds. To that end, we once again reiterate our 
call for the United Nations to honour its obligation to 
meet the costs associated with referrals by the Security 
Council to the ICC.
In  closing,  I  wish  to  express  the  unequivocal 
support of Trinidad and Tobago for the ICC and for the 
promotion of the universality of the Rome Statute.
Mr. Petersen (Denmark): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the five Nordic countries: Finland, Iceland, 
Norway, Sweden and my own country, Denmark.
Let me start by thanking the International Criminal 
Court (ICC) for its annual report to the United Nations 
(see  A/71/342).  I  would  also  like  to  thank  Judge 
Fernández de Gurmendi, President of the Court, for her 
thorough presentation of the main issues in the report. 
The Nordic countries would like to express our sincere 
appreciation to the Court for its significant contribution 
to the fight against impunity worldwide.
It  is  evident  that  the  caseload  of  the  Court  has 
continued to increase. I will now give a few statistics 
in that regard. 
conducted 
preliminary 
During  the  reporting  period,  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor 
examination 
activities  in  11  situations  in  Asia,  Africa,  the  Middle 
East,  Europe  and  Latin  America,  and  opened  a  new 
investigation  into  the  situation  in  Georgia,  following 
judicial authorization by the Court. In total, the Court is 
currently seized of 23 cases and 10 country situations. 
Those numbers and the geographical scope of cases are 
unprecedented in the history of the Court. That shows 
that  the  ICC  is  truly  a  global  criminal  court.  During 
the  reporting  period,  the  Court  also  rendered  its  first 
conviction for counts of sexual violence and command 
responsibility,  which  is  an  important  achievement  in 
the quest to bring justice to victims of those atrocious 
crimes. We therefore commend the President, the Chief 
Prosecutor,  their  staff  and  the  entire  Court  for  the 
dedicated and professional manner in which they carry 
out their work.
Holding  to  account  perpetrators  and  ensuring 
justice for victims of the most serious crimes of concern 
to  the  international  community  are  principles  shared 
by  States  in  all  parts  of  the  world.  The  International 
Criminal  Court  is  an  essential  means  not  only  for 
promoting  respect  for  international  humanitarian  law 
and  human  rights  law,  but  also  for  advancing  post-
conflict  peacebuilding  and  reconciliation  with  a  view 
to achieving sustainable development and peace. 
We wish to stress the importance of full cooperation 
by States. It is a cause for concern that the number of 
outstanding  arrest  warrants  remains  high.  Requests 
for  arrest  and  surrender  issued  by  the  Court  remain 
outstanding against 13 individuals. States parties have 
a legal obligation under the Rome Statute to cooperate 
fully  with  the  Court.  We  therefore  strongly  urge  all 
States to cooperate fully and effectively with the Court, 
in line with the applicable Security Council resolutions.
The  Court’s  promise  of  justice  for  the  victims 
goes together with the reach of its jurisdiction, which 
depends,  first  and  foremost,  on  how  universally  the 
Rome Statute has been ratified. While being fully within 
the  provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute,  recent  decisions 
and  notifications  by  States  parties  to  withdraw  from 
the  Rome  Statute  are  deeply  regrettable.  The  Nordic 
countries  continue  to  stand  ready  for  a  constructive 
discussion about concerns that some States parties may 
have within the framework and fundamental principles 
of the Rome Statute.
8/28 
16-35110
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.37
States  have 
responsibility 
the  primary 
to 
investigate and prosecute crimes, as the ICC is a court 
of  last  resort.  However,  States  affected  by  genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity  and  war  crimes  might  at 
times need capacity support so as to be able to initiate 
investigations  and  conduct  criminal  proceedings.  The 
Nordic countries emphasize the value of States parties 
assisting  each  other  in  developing  such  capacity.  We 
remain committed to strong international cooperation 
in  that  area  –  cooperation  that  engages  international, 
regional and national actors in the justice sector, as well 
as civil society, so as to further the implementation of 
the principle of complementarity. We stress that States 
parties  may  also  benefit  from  the  knowledge  and 
expertise of the Court. 
One  concrete  example  of  our  complementarity 
engagement is provided by the Justice Rapid Response 
facility,  which  is  a  support  mechanism  for  providing 
States  and  organizations  with  rapidly  deployable 
criminal-justice professionals trained for international 
investigations.
We  welcome  the  ongoing  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC  as  described  in 
the  report.  Cooperation  between  the  Court  and  the 
Security Council should be further enhanced, which is 
particularly true in cases of non-cooperation with the 
ICC. Cases referred to the Court by the Security Council 
also need strengthened follow-up. The Syrian situation 
is reaching a horrible magnitude, and we deeply regret 
that the Council has been unable to refer it to the ICC. 
We strongly urge the Council to continue efforts to refer 
that situation to the Court. Without stronger and more 
committed action by the Council and States parties, the 
situation  will  not  improve.  All  those  responsible  for 
war crimes and other serious international crimes must 
be held accountable.
In the meantime, the quest for universal adherence 
to and implementation of the Rome Statute should also 
be  intensified.  Justice  must  be  ensured  for  victims  of 
mass atrocities in Iraq. We therefore repeat our call upon 
Iraq to accede to the Rome Statute. We also stress the 
need for all States parties, as well as non-States parties 
that have not yet done so to ratify and fully observe the 
Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the ICC 
as a matter of priority.
The  full  realization  of  the  rights  of  victims  is 
an  important  aspect  of  the  continuing  success  and 
relevance  of  the  Court.  We  commend  the  important 
work  of  the  ICC  Trust  Fund  for  Victims,  which  has 
supported  more  than  300,000  victims  in  northern 
Uganda  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo. 
We encourage States and other actors to contribute to 
the Trust Fund. The Nordic countries also welcome the 
ambitions  of  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  to  further 
enhance  the  efficiency  of  the  Court.  We  especially 
welcome the Prosecutor’s policies aimed at addressing 
crimes  against  those  most  vulnerable  in  important 
areas  such  as  sexual  and  gender-based  crimes,  and  at 
prosecuting crimes against children.
During the reporting period, the Court also moved 
into its new, permanent premises in The Hague, funded 
by  the  States  parties.  The  completion  of  the  new, 
purpose-built building of the Court is a major milestone 
for the ICC as a permanent international institution. We 
hope that the Court will make the most effective use of 
the  new  premises  so  as  to  achieve  justice  for  victims 
and  contribute  to  the  prevention  of  core  international 
crimes. In order for the Court to do so and be able to 
carry  out  its  tasks  in  the  most  efficient  way,  it  also 
needs to be properly funded. The Court´s budget will 
be  dealt  with  in  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  later 
this  month,  but  we  wish  to  underline  the  worldwide 
activities of the Court, as reflected in the report. It is 
our common responsibility to ensure that the Court has 
sufficient resources to carry out its important mandate 
in a time of strongly increasing demand.
Let  me  conclude  by  renewing  our  pledge  that  the 
Nordic countries will remain staunch supporters of the 
ICC. We are committed to continuing to work for the 
Court’s effectiveness, independence and integrity.
Ms.  Bird  (Australia):  The  world  needs 
the 
International  Criminal  Court.  The  Court  embodies 
States  parties’  commitment  to  hold  to  account  those 
most  responsible  for  the  crimes  that  shock  us  most, 
namely,  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  and  war 
crimes. It embodies a commitment that when States are 
unwilling or unable to investigate and prosecute those 
crimes,  the  international  community  will  step  in  and 
provide justice for the victims. It entails a commitment 
to contribute to the prevention of those crimes.
The  ICC  is  only  as  strong  as  the  commitment 
of  the  States  on  whose  cooperation  and  support  the 
Court relies. We underline our expectation that States 
will  fulfil  their  obligations  to  cooperate  with  the 
Court,  whether  those  obligations  derive  from  being  a 
party  to  the  Rome  Statute  or  from  resolutions  of  the 
16-35110
9/28
A/71/PV.37 
31/10/2016
Security  Council.  Support  from  the  United  Nations 
is  also  crucial.  We  welcome  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon’s ongoing support for the Court and express 
our  expectation  that  the  incoming  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Guterres, will follow in his footsteps.
The support of the Security Council is particularly 
important, especially in the case of Council referrals. 
It  is  essential  that  such  referrals  be  accompanied  by 
the Council’s clear demonstration of ongoing political 
support in order to maximize States’ cooperation with 
the  Court  and  minimize  any  possible  perception  that 
the  ICC  is  subject  to  the  Council’s  shifting  political 
dynamics.  That  accords  with  Australia’s  vision  of  a 
Security  Council  that  demonstrates  real  leadership  in 
ending impunity for serious international crimes.
The  ICC’s  mandate  is  inherently  political.  Its  job 
is  to  hold  to  account  those  most  responsible,  who  all 
too often are among the most powerful. We accept the 
reality  that  the  ICC’s  mandate  is  likely  to  mean  that 
it will always have more than its fair share of critics. 
Nonetheless, we do not shy away from acknowledging 
the fact that as this debate takes place today, the Court 
faces more challenges than ever before. Nor do we wish 
to ignore the need to work with those States that have 
raised concerns. While we recognize that membership 
in  an  international  treaty  is  a  sovereign  decision,  we 
take the opportunity to encourage those States parties 
that have indicated that they intend to withdraw from 
the  Rome  Statute  to  reconsider  their  decision.  As  we 
have said before and as we have demonstrated with our 
actions,  Australia  is  committed  to  working  together 
with  all  States  parties  to  ensure  that  the  Court  is  the 
strongest  possible  institution  that  we  can  make  it,  so 
that  we  can  ensure  that  the  ICC’s  vital  mandate  can 
be fulfilled.
Australia  is  convinced  that  while  timing  can  be 
important,  holding  to  account  those  most  responsible 
for  serious  international  crimes  is  crucial  to  the 
establishment  of  inclusive  and  lasting  peace.  History 
has demonstrated time and again just how difficult it is 
to prevent cycles of violence in the absence of justice. 
We must heed that lesson. The ICC, as a court of last 
resort, has a critical role to play in that regard. 
Australia once again calls on States that have not 
done so to ratify the Rome Statute in order to send a 
clear  and  universal  message  to  would-be  perpetrators 
that  Rome  Statute  crimes  will  not  be  tolerated.  For 
our  part,  Australia  remains  deeply  committed  to 
supporting the Court and doing what we can to advance 
our  common  cause  of  ending  impunity  for  those  who 
commit  the  most  serious  international  crimes  that 
shock the conscience of humankind.
Mr.  Lauber  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 
First of all, I would like to thank the President of the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Judge  Silvia 
Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  for  presenting  the  Court’s 
report  (see  A/71/342)  this  morning  and  commend  her 
and her team for the excellent work that they have been 
doing in the Court, which is at the heart of any progress 
that we have seen.
The  ICC  was  created  for  the  victims  of  the 
most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to  the  international 
community as a whole. It works neither for the benefit 
of certain States or regions nor to their detriment. The 
ICC  is  the  centrepiece  of  the  fight  against  impunity. 
While States continue to bear the primary responsibility 
for  prosecuting  criminals,  the  Court  intervenes  when 
the  national  authorities  are  unable  or  unwilling  to 
prosecute those responsible for the most serious crimes 
of concern to the international community. The Court 
contributes to ensuring justice to victims when no other 
tribunal will do so.
It is true that the Rome Statute system is a voluntary 
system. It is the sovereign right of every State to join 
or  not  join  in  that  system.  That  decision,  like  any 
other, bears consequences. Here, the consequences are 
borne  not  by  the  political  leaders  of  the  world  but  by 
those affected by conflicts, war crimes, crimes against 
humanity and genocide. The decisions of South Africa, 
Burundi and the Gambia to withdraw from the Rome 
Statute  therefore  send  a  troubling  signal.  If  anything, 
the  multiplication  of  horrendous  crimes  around  the 
globe should prompt us all to engage more thoroughly 
in the fight against impunity and certainly not to reduce 
that commitment.
Much  of  the  criticism  against  the  ICC  does  not 
originate  from  the  purported  flaws  of  the  institution. 
In fact, quite the contrary is true. The Court is rejected 
by  some  because  it  does,  in  fact,  execute  its  mandate 
successfully. In the past year, success has come in the 
form  of  key  judgments  that  have  provided  justice  for 
victims, ensured the accountability of perpetrators and 
affirmed  the  rule  of  law.  In  The  Prosecutor  v.  Jean-
Pierre  Bemba  Gombo  case,  for  instance,  the  Court 
highlighted that superiors are responsible for the actions 
of  their  subordinates.  In  The  Prosecutor  v.  Ahmad  Al 
10/28 
16-35110
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.37
Faqi  Al  Mahdi,  it  underlined  that  the  destruction  of 
cultural heritage will be punished. Just a few days ago, 
the Court gave the green light for symbolic collective 
reparations for the victims relating to the case of The 
Prosecutor v. Thomas Lubanga Dyilo.
The ICC can sanction and prevent not only crimes, 
but  also  wars,  which  is  one  of  the  main  goals  of  the 
United  Nations.  The  amendment  to  the  Rome  Statute 
on  the  crime  of  aggression  has  now  been  ratified  by 
more  than  30  States  parties.  The  Court’s  jurisdiction 
over such crimes can be activated by the Assembly of 
States  Parties  starting  next  year.  Having  ratified  the 
amendment  last  year,  Switzerland  calls  on  all  other 
States parties to do the same. 
Almost two thirds of all of the States represented 
in  the  General  Assembly  have  adhered  to  the  Rome 
Statute, and we specifically call on them to uphold the 
key principles that serve as a precondition to the work 
of the ICC. First, States parties need to strictly respect 
the independence of the ICC. Politics have no place in 
a  court,  either  at  the  national  or  at  the  international 
level.  Secondly,  States  parties  need  to  continue  to 
insist that even the highest officials of a State can be 
subject to prosecution before the ICC. Those who plan 
and  order  the  commission  of  serious  crimes  bear  the 
greatest responsibility for them. Finally, States parties 
need  to  cooperate  fully  with  the  ICC,  especially  in 
the execution of requests by the Prosecutor and arrest 
warrants. States are the limbs of the the international 
criminal justice system.
Switzerland deplores the lack of action on the part 
of  the  Security  Council  in  relation  to  the  complete 
impunity prevailing in Syria. In 2014, draft resolution 
S/2014/348,  aimed  at  referring  that  situation  to  the 
ICC,  was  not  adopted  despite  the  approval  of  13 
Council  members  and  the  sponsorship  of  65  States. 
Today,  we  continue  to  witness  the  repeated  and 
systematic commission of serious crimes by all parties 
to  the  conflict,  including  the  bombing  of  hospitals, 
humanitarian  convoys  and  besieged  cities  in  which 
civilians  live  under  horrendous  circumstances.  My 
delegation  therefore  renews  its  call  on  the  Security 
Council to refer the situation in Syria to the ICC. The 
right to veto should never be used in situations involving 
international crimes, whether in Syria or elsewhere.
We  welcome  that  the  United  Nations  and  the 
ICC  have  established  a  close  and  mutually  beneficial 
working  relationship  on  many  other  levels.  That 
relationship  encompasses  numerous  United  Nations 
entities, including the Department of Political Affairs, 
the  Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations  and  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme,  as  well  as 
representatives on the ground in Mali and in the Central 
African Republic. We also support cooperation between 
the  ICC  and  United  Nations  commissions  of  inquiry, 
groups  and  panels,  as  well  as  joint  efforts  aimed  at 
strengthening  capacities 
jurisdictions, 
so that  they can  deal  with  the  most  serious crimes of 
international concern. If we want to end impunity, we 
must make it an imperative goal to turn complementarity 
into a reality.
in  national 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  recalls  that  the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, proclaimed that 
the  ICC  heralded  an  era  of  accountability  based  on 
the  experience  that  there  can  be  no  sustainable  peace 
without  justice.  He  has  devoted  himself  to  making 
accountability a reality, and we thank him for that. We 
encourage  the  Secretary-General-designate  to  pursue 
that  same  commitment,  because  much  remains  to  be 
done, and we all have a role to play.
Mr. Mikanagi (Japan): At the outset, I would like 
to thank President Silvia Fernández de Gurmendi of the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) for her dedication 
and  leadership,  as  well  as  for  her  presentation  of  the 
comprehensive  report  on  the  work  of  the  Court  (see 
A/71/342). 
Japan’s core policy towards the ICC is to enable it 
to function effectively and sustainably with the support 
of the international community. Japan is proud of being 
the  largest  financial  contributor  to  the  Court.  We  are 
also dedicated to supporting the ICC through capable 
human  resources, 
judges,  and  became 
the  first  country  to  participate  in  the  ICC  Junior 
Professional  Officers  programme  this  year.  We  hope 
that the programme will enable many junior officers to 
gain experience and knowledge at the ICC, while also 
contributing to its work.
including 
Japan  believes  that  the  ICC  has  made  steady 
progress  in  the  judicial  field.  The  Court  has  been 
exercising its jurisdiction with regard to 10 situations, 
and  10  preliminary  examinations  are  ongoing. 
Nevertheless, we are cognizant of the fact that financial 
and human resources are limited, and we believe that 
they  should  be  used  efficiently.  With  that  in  mind, 
the  Japanese  Ambassador  to  the  Netherlands,  Hiroshi 
Inomata, has been working with Chile as co-chair of the 
16-35110
11/28
A/71/PV.37 
31/10/2016
Study Group on Governance to enhance the efficiency 
of  the  Court.  We  believe  that  such  exercises  carried 
out  by  States  parties  can  help  mitigate  the  Court’s 
unprecedented workload.
It  is  vital  for  the  ICC  to  have  the  cooperation  of 
the  States  parties.  That  is  clearly  one  of  the  biggest 
challenges that the Court is currently facing. This year, 
Japan, together with Australia, the Czech Republic, Peru 
and  Senegal  and  in  close  consultation  with  interested 
parties,  prepared  a  toolkit  to  assist  States  parties  by 
providing possible actions that can be taken when they 
foresee possible incidents of non-cooperation. We hope 
that the toolkit will be useful to everyone and that it will 
prevent future non-cooperation issues. Cooperation is 
also crucial when the Security Council refers situations 
to  the  Court.  The  ICC  can  function  more  effectively 
when the Security Council follows up on such situations 
in  close  cooperation  with  the  Court  and  the  States 
concerned.  While  there  is  no  clear-cut  answer  to  that 
issue, my delegation is happy to contribute to further 
dialogue on the matter.
Japan strongly believes that more countries should 
join the ICC to ensure that it effectively promotes the 
rule  of  law  throughout  the  world,  In  the  long-run, 
the  ICC  should  aim  at  becoming  a  truly  universal 
criminal  court,  so  that  it  can  gain  strong  support  for 
its work. In that regard, we are concerned about recent 
decisions  that  were  taken  by  some  African  States  to 
withdraw from the ICC. In order to gain the support and 
cooperation of a greater number of States in carrying 
out its activities, the ICC and its States parties should 
listen to the concerns expressed by the wider audience 
and make efforts to enhance its universality.
In  closing,  I  wish  to  express  Japan’s  sincere 
appreciation for the work that the ICC has accomplished 
to date. We hope that it will continue to work diligently 
in  the  fight  against  impunity  while  consolidating  its 
credibility,  both  inside  and  outside  the  Rome  Statute 
system.  Japan  pledges  to  strengthen  its  contributions 
to the ICC and to continue to enhance respect for the 
rule of law.
Ms.  Owen  (United  States  of  America):  I  thank 
the 
President  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi  of 
International Criminal Court (ICC) for her presentation 
of the Court’s report on its activities (see A/70/342) and 
for her continued leadership as President of the Court.
The  United  States  has  long  viewed  the  end  of 
impunity for mass atrocities as both a moral imperative 
and  a  stabilizing  force  in  international  affairs.  To 
that end, we continue to work with bilateral partners, 
regional  organizations  and  the  United  Nations  on  a 
case-by-case  basis  and  in  a  manner  consistent  with 
United States policy and law, and with the International 
Criminal Court, to identify practical ways to advance 
accountability for the worst crimes known to humanity. 
As  is  so  often  the  case,  the  past  year  has  seen  both 
remarkable  progress  and  deeply  frustrating  setbacks 
in that regard, reinforcing how important it is that the 
international community strive to find ways to intensify 
its  collaboration  in  support  of  justice  and  reflect  and 
take stock of its common efforts.
As reflected in the Court’s report, there have been 
a  number  of  successes  at  the  Court  with  regard  to 
accountability, demonstrating the many ways in which 
it  and  other  courts  like  it  can  have  an  impact.  The 
United States welcomed the conviction in September of 
Ahmad Al-Faqi Al-Mahdi for destroying mausoleums 
and shrines in Timbuktu — a verdict that emphasized 
the seriousness with which the international community 
views the purposeful destruction of cultural property. 
We  welcome  the  upcoming  opening  of  the  trial  of 
Dominic Ongwen, who will be the first commander of 
the Lord’s Resistance Army to face charges for his role 
in that vicious armed group’s crimes against civilians. 
And  most  recently,  Jean-Pierre  Bemba  Gombo’s 
conviction  in  March  for  war  crimes  was  followed 
just two weeks ago by a verdict finding him and four 
associates guilty of offenses against the administration 
of justice, thereby showing the importance of ensuring 
the integrity of accountability proceedings.
Given  recent  developments,  it  seems  appropriate 
to  note  that  all  of  those  landmark  actions  occurred 
in  situations  in  which  the  ICC  acted  at  the  request 
of  a  national  Government  that  was  unable  itself  to 
investigate, bring charges and help vindicate the rights 
of victims. We welcome the report of continued work 
by  peacekeeping  missions  authorized  by  the  Security 
Council to support appropriate national efforts to pursue 
justice  and  accountability,  as  well  as  the  continued 
work by UN-Women, the Special Representative of the 
Secretary-General on Sexual Violence in Conflict and 
the Office of the Prosecutor of the ICC to ensure that 
sexual and gender-based violence receives the attention 
and the focused effort towards accountability that it too 
rarely receives.
We  have  seen  a  number  of  countries  take  the 
positive  step  of  leading  the  pursuit  of  justice  within 
12/28 
16-35110
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.37
their  domestic  systems,  with  support  from 
the 
international  community,  including  the  completion 
in  Senegal  of  proceedings  against  Hissène  Habré  for 
crimes  committed  during  his  tenure  as  President  of 
Chad,  and  the  establishment  by  the  Government  of 
Kosovo  of  the  Kosovo  Specialist  Chambers  in  that 
country’s judiciary, which will examine allegations of 
serious crimes committed from 1998 to 2000.
Similarly, we support the prompt establishment of 
the Hybrid Court for South Sudan, which we hope can 
be an effective measure for ending the cycle of impunity 
in  that  country  and  provide  a  measure  of  justice  to 
the  victims  of  the  brutal  conflict  there.  Finally,  the 
Central African Republic has welcomed the ICC as an 
essential  ally  in  the  fight  against  impunity,  working 
alongside Central African Republic’s domestic efforts 
to establish a special criminal court focused on atrocity 
crimes — a process that we urge them to complete as 
quickly as possible, given the importance of providing 
accountability  and  bolstering  capacity  at  the  national 
level, even where the ICC is already involved.
As  we  reflect  on  recent  events,  we  should  think 
about the ways in which such efforts, both within and 
without  the  ICC,  have  meaningfully  and  positively 
contributed to breaking cycles of conflict and impunity. 
Yet, while many of those developments are encouraging, 
we remain alarmed by the continuing suffering in far 
too many situations elsewhere in the world, where the 
victims of mass atrocities still have not seen a sufficient 
response to calls for justice. We must remain vigilant 
and  steady  in  our  march  toward  a  world  increasingly 
intolerant of impunity.
Clearly, there remains much to be done in our work 
together to prevent mass atrocities and bring to justice 
those who commit crimes against humanity, war crimes 
and genocide. The ICC cannot grapple with every mass 
atrocity  situation  in  the  world,  and  even  where  it  is 
involved, the Court will be able to address at most only 
a  small  handful  of  cases.  Given  that  reality  and  the 
limited resources and increasing demands that it faces, 
it will be important for the ICC to ensure that its choices 
are guided by justice, rigour, fairness and care. In that 
connection, the international community should strive 
to ensure that the Court is able to remain focused on its 
core  mandate:  to  address  war  crimes,  crimes  against 
humanity and genocide.
We  note  in  that  regard  that  the  United  States 
continues  to  have  serious  concerns  about  the  Rome 
Statute amendments on the crime of aggression adopted 
in 2010 at Kampala. We believe that it is in the interest 
of  both  peace  and  justice  to  ensure  that  any  decision 
to activate the Court’s jurisdiction over that crime be 
preceded  by  concrete  steps  to  provide  greater  clarity 
regarding  certain  critical  issues,  including  regarding 
what conduct and which States would be covered by the 
amendments. We continue to believe that a decision to 
activate the amendments without clarification of those 
issues  will  further  chill  the  willingness  of  States  to 
take  action  aimed  at  stopping  the  very  atrocities  that 
prompted  the  Court’s  creation,  and  will  compound 
the challenges already facing the Court by enmeshing 
it  in  disputes  of  a  far  more  political  character  than  it 
currently  faces.  On  that  and  other  issues  of  justice 
and  accountability,  we  look  forward  to  continuing  to 
pursue  partnership  and  seek  common  ground  with 
Governments and civil society, wherever possible.
Mr.  Van  Bohemen  (New  Zealand):  I  begin  by 
thanking  my  friend  and  colleague,  Judge  Silvia 
Fernández  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
for presenting the report on the work of the Court (see 
A/71/342)  and  for  her  ongoing  service  to  the  Court. 
We  welcome  the  opportunity  for  continued  dialogue 
to  discuss  the  Court’s  contribution  to  international 
criminal  justice  and  its  relationship  with  the  United 
Nations.  New  Zealand  has  been  a  long-standing 
supporter  of  efforts  to  break  the  cycle  of  impunity 
for  the  most  serious  international  crimes,  regardless 
of where they occur. For that reason, New Zealand is 
and remains a strong supporter of the Court and of the 
universality of the Rome Statute.
New  Zealand  has  also  been  ready  to  express 
its  concerns  when  we  have  felt  that  the  Court  could 
perform better in managing some of the issues facing it. 
As we reflect on the past year, we note that there have 
been some positive milestones for the Court, to which 
I will return later. But first, we should not shy away in 
our  annual  debate  this  year  from  the  very  significant 
recent developments that confront us.
Members  will  be  aware  that  New  Zealand  has 
consistently  underlined  that  the  Court  and  the  States 
parties  must  be  more  open  to  constructive  dialogue 
and engagement among the Court, Member States, the 
United  Nations  and  regional  organizations,  including 
the African Union. That is why we welcomed the recent 
efforts undertaken by His Excellency Mr. Sidiki Kaba, 
President of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome 
16-35110
13/28
A/71/PV.37 
31/10/2016
Statute of the ICC, and Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda of 
the Court in that regard.
goal  will  include  cooperation  and  mechanisms  at  the 
national, regional and international levels. 
We have long encouraged better engagement with 
the African Union and African States on issues that we 
understand are of real concern to them and which, 
in  our  view,  merit  careful  consideration.  African 
States have played an essential role in the Court since 
its  inception  and  have  been,  through  their  referrals, 
actively engaged with the Court. So that is the context in 
which we must record our disappointment that Burundi, 
South Africa and the Gambia have taken the decision 
to withdraw from the Rome Statute. In our view, those 
decisions are regrettable. We hope that in the time that 
remains  before  those  decisions  take  effect,  there  is 
room for meaningful dialogue on a potential resolution 
of the issue and for working out a pathway back to full 
membership in the Court. That will necessarily involve 
a  willingness  to  explore  the  issues  through  genuine 
engagement. Those issues are inherently difficult and 
require a commitment by all sides to listen carefully to 
each others’ perspectives, which will be an important 
prerequisite to any progress.
At the same time we must not panic. It was always 
likely  that  there  would  be  teething  problems  with  the 
Court,  the  need  for  which  had  been  debated  for  over 
50  years,  and  especially  at  a  time  when  the  world  is 
experiencing  some  of  the  most  difficult  political 
tensions since the end of the Cold War. We need to take 
the  challenges  seriously  and  recognize  the  political 
realities in which the Court operates.
The Court was the creation of a diplomatic process, 
and  we  will  need  a  diplomatic  process  to  address  the 
challenges that it is now facing. The task is to do that 
in a way that preserves the integrity of and support for 
the  Court,  which  will  be  essential  for  its  growth  and 
ongoing  viability  in  the  international  criminal-justice 
framework.  It  also  requires  from  the  States  parties 
more  meaningful  engagement  than  we  have  seen 
to  date  to  acknowledge  and  address  the  underlying 
concerns. We particularly urge other States parties to 
continue the discussions at and around the Assembly of 
States Parties.
New Zealand remains committed to working with 
all States parties to create the conditions necessary for 
such a dialogue to take place — a dialogue that is open, 
honest, respectful and focused on our common goal of 
ending impunity. We are conscious that achieving that 
We also want, of course, to acknowledge the more 
positive developments that have occurred over the past 
year.  We  welcome  the  move  to  the  new  purpose-built 
premises,  the  thirtieth  ratification  of  the  Kampala 
amendments  on  the  crime  of  aggression  and  the  first 
conviction  for  the  war  crime  of  the  destruction  of 
cultural property in Mali.
But as we have explained earlier, we cannot ignore 
the  challenges  ahead,  nor  can  we  expect  them  to  be 
resolved  quickly.  It  remains  imperative  to  continue 
to  strengthen 
the  practical  working  relationships 
between the Court and the United Nations at all levels. 
In  particular,  we  encourage  greater  cooperation, 
coordination  and  information-sharing  with  United 
Nations  sanctions  committees.  Targeted  sanctions  are 
an important tool for addressing threats to international 
peace and security, including the commission of serious 
international crimes.
As a member of the Security Council, New Zealand 
emphasizes that the relationship between the Court and 
the  Security  Council  remains  as  important  as  ever. 
As  previously  expressed  by  my  delegation,  when  the 
Council  refers  a  situation  to  the  Court,  it  should  do 
so  with  a  clear  commitment  to  follow  up.  We  believe 
that it is not just a question of providing the Court with 
the  necessary  support  and  resources  for  the  referrals 
that  the  Council  makes,  including  in  relation  to  the 
Court’s findings of non-cooperation, but of upholding 
the  binding  nature  of  Chapter  VII  resolutions.  The 
failure to take action calls into question the authority 
of the Council and its resolutions. Equally, as we have 
previously  said,  the  Council  must  be  scrupulously 
careful to avoid using referrals as a political tool in the 
midst of a conflict. That only politicizes the Court and 
can prolong both conflicts and impunity.
Our  experience  on  the  Council  over  the  past  22 
months  has  only  reinforced  our  view  that  a  robust 
international  accountability  framework  is  essential. 
The existence of the Court sends a clear message that 
the  crimes  specified  in  the  Rome  Statute  will  not  be 
tolerated and will not go unpunished. We believe that 
that objective is common to all of us. For our part, New 
Zealand  remains  committed  to  working  with  others 
to  strengthen  the  Court’s  effectiveness  in  fulfilling 
its mandate.
14/28 
16-35110
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.37
Mr. Racovita (Romania): The Romanian delegation 
would  like  to  thank  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC) for the twelfth annual report on its activities (see 
A/71/342), submitted to the United Nations.
the  fact  that  a  significant  number  of  situations  under 
investigation  at  the  ICC  were  submitted  by  national 
authorities themselves, thereby illustrating confidence 
in the institution.
at  the  outset,  let  me  reiterate  Romania’s  full 
commitment  toand  support  for  the  Court  as  the 
fundamental  pillar  of  international  criminal  justice. 
The International Criminal Court plays a vital part in 
preventing the most serious crimes of global concern, 
prosecuting  the  alleged  perpetrators  of  those  crimes 
and securing the rule of law at the international level.
As  highlighted  in  the  report,  the  Court  faced  a 
heavy workload over the past year, illustrated, inter alia, 
by the need to handle four cases simultaneously at trial 
and several other cases at various stages of proceedings, 
by the opening of a new investigation on the situation 
in Georgia and by the handing down of sentences this 
year for crimes within its jurisdiction. We welcome the 
move  to  the  new  permanent  premises,  which  marks 
an important milestone for the International Criminal 
Court as a permanent international institution.
With  regard  to  universality,  we  commend  El 
Salvador for depositing its instrument of accession to 
the Rome Statute, thereby raising the number of States 
parties to 124. We continue to encourage all States to 
become  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute.  The  Romanian 
delegation equally welcomes the fulfilment of one of the 
conditions  necessary  for  the  activation  of  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction with regard to the crime of aggression, as 
more than 30 States have already ratified the relevant 
Kampala amendment.
We  express  our  deep  concern  with  respect  to  the 
announced  decisions  or  intentions  to  withdraw  from 
the  Rome  Statute  expressed  by  several  States  parties. 
While  fully  acknowledging  that  withdrawal  from  an 
international treaty is a sovereign right, we encourage 
those States to reconsider their position, to continue to 
be part of the Rome Statute system and to work together 
towards reaching its goal of fighting impunity, which 
is  vital  to  making  reconciliation  and  lasting  peace 
possible.  Giving  up  the  Statute  of  Rome  system  can 
only  give  the  wrong  message  to  civil  society,  and  to 
the  victims  in  particular,  that  accountability  counts 
less.  That  certainly  is  the  wrong  message,  a  message 
that  we  wanted  to  correct  when  we  all  were  engaged 
in negotiating the Rome Statute. The very rationale of 
this ambitious project is just as present now, if not more 
so, as it was then. We must equally take into account 
regards 
Along with the challenge affecting universality, the 
International  Criminal  Court  still  faces  the  challenge 
of  cooperation.  Non-cooperation  as 
the 
execution  of  arrest  warrants  undermines  the  capacity 
of the Court to deliver justice and affects the credibility 
of  the  justice  act.  Each  State  should  be  aware  of  the 
significant  role  played  in  the  materialization  of  the 
international judicial act, in accordance with the legal 
obligations  stemming  from  the  Rome  Statute  and/or 
Security Council resolutions.
Romania  remains  an  active  supporter  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  and  works  constantly 
to  promote  its  activity.  In  March  2016,  the  Court 
organized,  in  Bucharest,  with  the  support  of  the 
Romanian  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  a  high-level 
regional seminar on strengthening cooperation with the 
ICC. The event was organized with the financial support 
of the European Commission. The aim of the high-level 
seminar was to foster cooperation between the ICC and 
countries  belonging  to  the  Eastern  European  Group 
of  States.  It  covered  a  number  of  important  issues, 
including witness protection, State cooperation during 
ICC investigations, national capacity-building, various 
types  of  voluntary  agreements  and  implementing 
legislation, as well as the benefits of joining the Rome 
Statute system. The event brought together Government 
representatives from around 20 countries belonging to 
the  Eastern  European  Group  of  States,  including  the 
Ministers of Justice from Romania and Georgia, along 
with  officials  from  regional  organizations  and  from 
the ICC.
At  the  end  of  the  meeting  in  Bucharest,  a  set  of 
recommendations  was  adopted  in  order  to  promote 
cooperation  with  the  ICC,  highlighting  the  most 
relevant issues related to effective cooperation between 
the ICC and Central and Eastern European States and 
reflecting the continued commitment within the region 
to promoting the work of the Court and its values.
In conclusion, I would like to underline again the 
need  for  strong,  wide  and  consolidated  support  from 
States  and  from  the  international  community  for  the 
ICC. When we stand together, that unique and essential 
institution can achieve the goals of peace and justice.
16-35110
15/28
A/71/PV.37 
31/10/2016
The  Romanian  delegation  fully  aligns  itself  with 
the  statement  delivered  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union and its member States.
Mr.  Cardi  (Italy):  Let  me  thank  the  President  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Judge  Silvia 
Fernández de Gurmendi, for her thoughtful presentation 
of this year’s report of the Court (see A/71/342) to the 
General  Assembly,  which  shows  the  increase  in  the 
volume  of  work  facing  the  Court  and  the  increased 
effectiveness of its proceedings.
Italy  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by 
the  observer  of  the  European  Union.  I  would  like  to 
emphasize only a few points in my national capacity.
First of all, we share the positions of concern and 
regret  expressed  by  the  Secretary-General  and  by  the 
President of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome 
Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  Minister 
Sidiki  Kaba  of  Senegal,  on  the  recent  decisions  or 
announcements  of  intention  to  withdraw  from  the 
Statute. The Rome Statute represents a cornerstone in 
the fight against impunity and the establishment of an 
age of accountability. As the Government of Botswana, 
inter  alia,  stated,  as  the  only  permanent  international 
criminal tribunal, the ICC is an important and unique 
institution 
justice 
system.  It  took  over  50  years,  as  we  know,  for  the 
international community to come together in Rome in 
1998 and finalize that ambitious treaty, inspired by the 
fundamental  principles  of  international  justice,  which 
must be preserved.
international  criminal 
in 
the 
Secondly,  in  my  role  as  Vice-President  of  the 
Assembly  of  States  Parties  to  the  ICC  Statute,  I  am 
also  proud  to  work  side  by  side  with  the  President  of 
the Assembly of States Parties in his effort to pursue 
dialogue  while  preserving  the  important  principles 
embodied  in  the  Rome  Statute.  Any  issue  pertaining 
to  the  functioning  of  the  Rome  Statute  system  can 
be addressed in the Assembly of States Parties as the 
proper  and  appropriate  platform  for  States  parties  to 
address any concerns that they may have regarding the 
implementation of the Statute itself. We have been, we 
are and we remain open to dialogue.
Of course, our focus must remain on the victims. For 
that reason, it is very important that the international 
community  increase  its  efforts  to  uphold  the  concept 
of complementarity. The International Criminal Court 
is a court of last resort. What we would like to see is 
a  stronger  capacity  at  the  national  level  to  prosecute 
crimes  and  defend  the  victims.  That  can  be  done  by 
enhancing the role of various United Nations bodies and 
willing Member States in providing technical assistance 
to  strengthen  national  judicial  systems,  especially  in 
countries transitioning from war or conflict.
Together,  we  must  make  further  progress  in  the 
fight  against  impunity,  for  example,  as  the  Court  has 
shown already with regard to crimes committed by the 
Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham or Daesh, including 
by  supporting  efforts  to  prosecute  crimes  against 
women  and  children,  atrocities  against  members  of 
protected groups and minorities, and crimes involving 
the destruction of the cultural heritage, and, hopefully, 
by  promoting  the  opening  of  new  avenues  for  the 
prosecution of traffickers of human beings.
Italy  therefore  joins  other  States  in  calling  on  all 
States parties to remain committed to the Rome Statute 
and  on  all  States  to  contribute  to  the  prevention  and 
punishment of crimes against humanity.
Mr. Barros Melet (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): We 
would first like to thank the President of the International 
Criminal  Court,  Judge  Silvia  Alejandra  Fernández  de 
Gurmendi,  for  presenting  the  comprehensive  report 
on  the  Court’s  activities  (see  A/71/342)  covering  the 
period  from  1  August  2015  to  31  July  2016,  which 
shows,  among  other  things,  the  significant  increase 
in  the  Court’s  workload.  We  acknowledge  the  First 
Vice-President,  Judge  Joyce  Aluoch,  and  the  Second 
Vice-President,  Judge  Kuniko  Ozaki,  as  well  as  the 
Prosecutor, Ms. Fatou Bensouda.
The  International  Criminal  Court  has  become 
the  most  advanced  example  of  the  development  of 
institutions  devoted  to  international  criminal  justice. 
From the viewpoint of the protection of human rights, 
the creation of the Criminal Court is a decided advance 
in efforts to combat impunity and a clear signal that its 
States parties have a commitment to the international 
community, which they must honour in order to meet 
its objectives.
thirty-second  State 
On  23  September,  Chile  deposited  its  instrument 
of ratification of the Kampala amendments, becoming 
the 
to  do  so.  Nevertheless, 
much  remains  to  be  done,  which  is  why  my  country 
is  working  to  ensure  that,  after  1  January  2017, 
the  necessary  decisions  are  taken  to  activate  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  over  crimes  of  aggression. 
In  addition,  at  home,  the  Government  has  supported 
the  relevant  legal  changes  so  as  to  include  the  crime 
16/28 
16-35110
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.37
of  aggression  in  Chilean  criminal  law  and  extend  the 
war crimes mentioned in the Kampala amendments to 
non-international conflicts.
We  reiterate  the  importance  of  ensuring  that  the 
Court  has  the  necessary  material  and  human  means 
and resources to fulfil its mandate. In that connection, 
Chile  believes  that,  when  the  Security  Council  refers 
a  situation 
the  International  Criminal  Court, 
the  General  Assembly  must  make  the  necessary 
arrangements to give the Court the financial resources 
needed to deal with such referrals.
to 
We are also convinced of the need for the Security 
Council to monitor the cases that it refers to the Court 
and,  in  that  connection,  to  pay  special  attention  to 
situations created by the lack of cooperation by States 
or  the  difficulties  that  may  arise  as  a  result.  The 
International Criminal Court will not be able to advance 
its  crucial  work  to  combat  impunity  without  proper 
cooperation,  which  is  needed  so  that  the  perpetrators 
of  crimes  within  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  can  be  held 
accountable for their actions. We appeal to all States to 
cooperate fully with the Court.
We  shall  not  let  up  in  our  efforts  to  achieve  the 
universality  and  full  application  of  the  Rome  Statute. 
We appeal to the States that are not yet parties to the 
Statute to ratify or accede to it. We welcome El Salvador 
as a new State party, which brings the number of States 
parties  to  this  international  treaty  to  124.  We  also 
appeal for greater cooperation between the Court and 
States, and in particular those that may be experiencing 
difficulties  in  that  regard,  so  that  they  can  face,  in  a 
timely manner and in accordance with the norms of the 
Rome  Statute,  any  difficulty  that  they  may  encounter 
in meeting the obligations established therein. We also 
emphasize  the  importance  of  States  parties  ratifying 
the  Kampala  amendments  concerning  the  crime  of 
aggression and article 8 of the Rome Statute.
With  regard  to  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims,  we 
acknowledge  the  important  work  that  has  allowed 
for  ongoing  assistance  to  over  300,000  victims  in  the 
reporting  period,  through  the  provision  of  physical 
and psychological rehabilitation services and material 
support  for 
the 
Court’s jurisdiction.
the  survivors  of  crimes  within 
I reiterate my country’s support for the International 
Criminal  Court  and  our  desire  to  ensure  that  it  has 
the  necessary  means  to  achieve  its  objectives  and 
that  all  the  members  of  the  international  community 
recognize  it  as  a  solid  and  legitimate  institution  in 
combating impunity.
Mr.  Grant  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Canada’s  continuing 
support  for  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the 
pivotal  role  that  it  plays  in  ensuring  accountability 
for  those  responsible  for  the  commission  of  the  most 
serious crimes of international concern.
We  must  not  forget  the  thousands  of  children, 
women and men who have been victims of unimaginable 
atrocities. As members of the international community, 
we  have  a  collective  duty  to  those  victims  to  support 
efforts to ensure that the perpetrators of those crimes 
are  held  to  account.  It  is  the  duty  of  every  State  to 
prosecute  within  its  jurisdiction  those  responsible  for 
serious international crimes. If States are unwilling or 
unable to do so, international mechanisms may fill the 
gaps and serve as courts of last resort. 
seeks 
to  engage 
As  such  a  court  of  last  resort,  the  International 
Criminal  Court 
to  complement  —  not 
replace  —  national  courts,  but,  in  turn,  it  challenges 
States 
in  effective  and  meaningful 
investigations  and  prosecutions  in  providing  justice 
to  victims.  A  majority  of  Member  States  are  already 
States parties to the Rome Statute of the International 
Criminal  Court.  However,  we  remain  some  distance 
from  achieving  the  full  universalization  of  the  Rome 
Statute.  Canada  calls  upon  those  States  that  have  not 
yet done so to consider acceding to the Rome Statute.
its  mandate  without 
It is well known that the Court cannot effectively 
accomplish 
the  necessary 
cooperation  from  States  parties  and  others.  Over  the 
past  year  we  have  witnessed  both  accomplishments 
and challenges in the sphere of cooperation. The recent 
historic  guilty  plea  and  conviction  of  Mr.  Al-Mahdi 
for war crimes related to the destruction of UNESCO-
protected  shrines  in  Timbuktu  would  not  have  been 
possible without the cooperation of the Niger and Mali. 
We welcome their cooperation as a concrete example of 
the commitment of those two States to justice.
(spoke in English)
We  remain  troubled,  however,  by  instances  of 
non-cooperation,  particularly  by  States  parties  to  the 
Rome Statute. The fact that arrest warrants issued years 
ago — including those issued pursuant to referral to the 
Court  by  the  Security  Council  —  remain  unexecuted 
should  be  disturbing  to  all  of  us  as  members  of  the 
16-35110
17/28
A/71/PV.37 
31/10/2016
international  community.  We  encourage  all  States  to 
abide by their international commitments.
Canada  is  troubled  by  the  recent  decisions  of 
Burundi  and  South  Africa  to  withdraw  from  the 
International Criminal Court and by the announcement 
by  the  Gambia  of  its  intention  to  withdraw.  We  urge 
those  three  countries  to  reconsider  their  actions. 
African  States  played  an  important  role  in  both  the 
establishment and the development of the Court. Today 
their steadfast support is more important than ever in 
the fight against impunity. 
Canada is of the view that the Assembly of States 
Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  is  the  most  appropriate 
venue for States parties to raise any concerns they have 
regarding  the  implementation  of  the  Statute.  It  is  our 
hope that States parties will use the upcoming session 
of  the  Assembly  in  The  Hague  as  an  opportunity  for 
constructive discussion in that regard.
As Secretary-General Kofi Annan said in Rome in 
1998, the establishment of the Court is a gift of hope 
to  future  generations  and  a  giant  step  forward  in  the 
march towards universal human rights and the rule of 
law. Building on the legacy of Nuremburg and following 
the  lead  of  the  ad  hoc  tribunals  for  Rwanda  and  the 
former Yugoslavia, a permanent international criminal 
court  took  concrete  form  with  the  Rome  Conference. 
The International Criminal Court is the culmination of 
the  international  community’s  dedication  to  fighting 
impunity and giving a voice to the victims of atrocity 
crimes. 
politicization  or  micromanagement.  The  Court  and 
the  Assembly  must  continue  to  constructively  work 
together  to  achieve  our  common  goal  of  establishing, 
maintaining  and  strengthening  the  framework  of  a 
permanent, independent judicial institution that has the 
respect and confidence of the international community.
Mr. Imnadze (Georgia): Georgia aligns itself with 
the  statement  made  by  the  observer  of  the  European 
Union.  In  my  national  capacity.  I  would  like  to  make 
the following statement.
At  the  outset,  let  me  thank  the  President  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC),  Ms.  Silvia 
Fernández de Gurmendi, for the report on the activities 
of  the  Court  (see  A/71/342)  and  her  remarks  on  the 
future of international criminal justice. We also thank 
the  President  of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  to 
the  Rome  Statute,  Mr.  Sidiki  Kaba,  for  his  role  and 
leadership in this critical period.
The  report  before  us  covers  several  important 
milestones,  including  the  groundbreaking  case  in 
prosecuting  crimes  of  sexual  violence  in  conflict 
through the international justice system. We welcome 
the  decision  of  El  Salvador  to  accede  to  the  Rome 
Statute, thereby becoming the one hundred and twenty-
fourth State party. At the end of the reporting period, 
the amendment to article 8 and the amendments on the 
crime of aggression had both been ratified or accepted 
by 30 States. Georgia has also ratified both amendments 
and looks forward to the decision of the Assembly of 
States Parties on the issue of their activation.
The  Rome  Statute  embodies  the  lessons  we  have 
painfully  learned  from  history:  that  individuals  must 
be held to account to deter future crimes, that no one is 
above the law, that it is in the interests of all to ensure that 
those responsible for the gravest crimes are punished, 
and  that  fair  and  legitimate  criminal  accountability 
processes  can  help  to  lay  the  groundwork  for  lasting 
peace. As States parties, we have committed ourselves 
to those ideals.
Georgia fully subscribes to the notion that without 
the rule of law, impunity reigns and neither justice nor 
peace  can  be  achieved.  The  prevention  of  the  gravest 
crimes,  which,  as  the  preamble  to  the  Rome  Statute 
states,  threaten  the  peace,  security  and  well-being 
of  the  world,  is  vital  to  upholding  the  rule  of  law  at 
the  international  level,  based  on  the  principles  of 
international law and the common values of humankind 
that the Court and the United Nations share.
Looking forward, Canada expects that the upcoming 
fifteenth session of the Assembly of States Parties will 
be  fruitful  and  will  allow  us  to  move  forward  with 
strengthening  the  Court’s  role.  We  expect  there  to  be 
discussions on the administrative issues of budget and 
governance. In that respect, we underline the important 
role  of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  in  providing 
oversight and guidance on these matters as prescribed 
by  the  Rome  Statute,  without,  however,  unnecessary 
Regrettably,  our  generation  continues  to  witness 
heinous crimes of unspeakable scale and gravity. The 
establishment  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  set 
a new justice paradigm. In that sense, the value of the 
Court’s work for humankind is high in terms not only 
of  the  punishment  of  perpetrators  of  genocide,  war 
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity,  but  also  of  the 
prevention  of  the  future  occurrence  of  such  acts.  We 
believe that accountability is important not simply for 
18/28 
16-35110
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.37
the sake of the past, but in particular to build a future 
free of violence by avoiding the recurrence of conflicts 
and  the  repetition  of  violence,  as  well  as  by  ensuring 
justice for the victims of mass atrocity crimes.
In  that  context,  we  regret  the  recent  decisions 
of  some  States  to  leave  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court. 
We would like to encourage the States not yet parties 
to  consider  joining  the  Rome  Statute  to  strengthen 
the  effectiveness  and  credibility  of  the  Court,  as 
well  as  to  provide  further  support  for  international 
criminal justice.
Georgia  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the  work 
undertaken by the Court in accordance with its mandate. 
Effective and comprehensive cooperation and assistance 
by States are indispensable for the Court to carry out 
its  activities  successfully,  more  so  given  the  Court’s 
complementary role to national criminal jurisdictions.
Georgia has been cooperating with the Court ever 
since  the  ICC  Prosecutor  announced  the  start  of  the 
preliminary  examination  of  the  2008  war  in  Georgia, 
on 14 August 2008. As an enabling factor for the full-
fledged cooperation with the ICC, Georgia has put in 
place  adequate  implementing  legislation  of  the  Rome 
Statute at the national level. I would like to highlight 
some  of  the  key  aspects  of  the  ongoing  cooperation 
with the ICC.
My  country  has  been  a  victim  of  international 
crimes since the 1990s — and notably in August 2008, 
when  thousands  of  civilians  were  targeted  in  another 
wave of ethnic cleansing and other heinous acts. At the 
national  level,  Georgia  has  carried  out  investigations 
on an unprecedented scale. In particular, the Georgian 
investigation  team  interrogated  over  7,000  witnesses, 
obtained over 200 forensic expert opinions and carried 
out  crime-scene  inspections  in  over  30  inhabited 
areas.  Where  the  evidence  was  inaccessible  owing 
to  the  Russian  occupation  of  areas  of  Georgian 
territory  —  which  were  fenced  off  with  artificial 
barriers, including razor wire — the crime scenes were 
examined through satellite imagery.
However, despite our continuous efforts, our ability 
to carry out additional necessary investigative measures 
in the Abkhazia and Tskhinvali regions at this stage is 
hampered  by  the  illegal  foreign  occupation.  In  such 
circumstances, the request of Prosecutor Bensouda and 
the subsequent decision of the Pre-Trial Chamber dated 
27 January to authorize proprio motu investigation into 
all crimes under the Rome Statute committed during the 
2008 international armed conflict between the Russian 
Federation  and  Georgia  have  been  recognized  as  an 
important step in acknowledging the ordeal suffered by 
the victims, as well as in combating impunity for the 
crimes committed between 1 July and 10 October 2008. 
Georgia further noted the Pre-Trial Chamber’s decision 
to be legally sound and in line with international law. 
We hope that, as Prosecutor Bensouda emphasized 
in  February  2016,  the  investigation  “will  lead  to 
establishing the truth and bringing justice to the victims 
... who suffered so terribly during the conflict.”
According to the Chamber,
“an  international  armed  conflict  existed  between 
Georgia  and  the  Russian  Federation  between 
1  July  and  10  October  2008.  The  existence 
of  such  international  armed  conflict  is  rather 
uncontroversial  as  concerns  the  period  of  armed 
hostilities  between  Georgian  and  Russian  armed 
forces  between  8  and  12  August  2008  and  the 
period of Russian occupation of parts of Georgian 
territory,  in  particular  the  ‘buffer  zone’,  until  at 
least  10  October  2008.  In  addition,  the  Chamber 
considers,  at  this  stage,  that  there  is  sufficient 
indication  that  the  Russian  Federation  exercised 
overall  control  over  the  South  Ossetian  forces, 
meaning  that  also  the  period  before  the  direct 
intervention  of  Russian  forces  may  be  seen  as  an 
international armed conflict”.
The  Chamber  further  notes  that  the  consistent 
pattern  of  deliberate  killing,  beating  and  threatening 
civilians,  detention,  looting  properties  and  systematic 
destruction  of  Georgian  houses  and  other  acts  were 
committed  “with  a  view  to  forcibly  expelling  ethnic 
Georgians  from  the  territory  of  South  Ossetia  in 
furtherance  of  the  overall  objective  to  change  the 
ethnic  composition  of  the  territory”  and  severing  any 
remaining links with other parts of Georgia.
The  Chamber  also  noted,  based  on  the  available 
information,    that  during  the  2008  armed  conflictthe 
crimes committed against ethnic Georgians
“resulted  in  51-113  killings,  the  destruction  of 
over 5,000 dwellings and the forced displacement 
of  13,400-18,500  persons  constituting,  in  the 
estimation  of  the  Prosecutor,  a  75  per  cent 
decrease in the ethnically Georgian population in 
South Ossetia.”
16-35110
19/28
A/71/PV.37 
31/10/2016
At  this  stage  of  cooperation  with  the  Court,  a 
special agreement on cooperation has been concluded 
between the Government of Georgia and the Office of 
the Prosecutor. The document establishes mechanisms 
to operationalize and enhance cooperation between the 
parties and to facilitate the expeditious conduct by the 
Office of the Prosecutor of the ICC of the investigations 
and  prosecutions  within  the  territory  of  Georgia.  We 
are ready to continue cooperation with the Court in the 
framework of the above mentioned agreement.
Mr. Węckowicz (Poland): Poland aligns itself with 
the statement made by the observer of European Union. 
We  would  like  to  make  the  following  remarks  in  our 
national capacity.
First,  we  would  like  to  thank  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  for  the  twelfth  annual  report 
on  its  activities  (see  A/71/342).  We  thank  President 
Fernández de Gurmendi for giving us a comprehensive 
briefing of the main issues concerning the ICC over the 
past year. 
As  highlighted  in  the  report,  the  Court  faced  an 
unprecedented workload, with four trials taking place 
simultaneously.  At  the  same  time,  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor  has  been  conducting  investigations  into  a 
significant number of situations. Such a caseload is a 
clear indication of the importance of the Court, as well 
as of the worldwide demand for justice.
the 
significant 
Poland 
recognizes 
judicial 
developments  during  the  reporting  period,  including 
the  first  case  involving  both  command  responsibility 
and the first conviction for sexual violence, and the case 
involving  the  first  conviction  for  destroying  religious 
monuments.  Those  rulings  send  a  strong  signal  that 
such crimes will be prosecuted. Unfortunately, over the 
same period, new crimes of the same or similar nature 
and  many  other  grave  crimes  are  reported  to  have 
been committed.
There  is  a  widespread  expectation  that  such 
atrocious  crimes  cannot  go  unpunished.  The  ICC 
has  a  crucial  role  in  upholding  that  expectation  and 
in  fulfilling  the  hopes  of  victims  all  over  the  world. 
However,  we  must  remember  that,  in  line  with  the 
principle of complementarity, the primary responsibility 
for preventing the most serious crimes rests with States 
parties. 
Poland remains committed to the idea of ensuring 
that  mass  atrocities  are  addressed  and  further  crimes 
are  prevented,  and  continues  to  support  the  system 
of  international  criminal  justice.  As  the  ICC  is  the 
cornerstone  of  that  system,  we  encourage  all  States 
to  become  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute.  The  broadest 
possible participation in the work of ICC should help to 
put an end to the most serious crimes under international 
law, no matter where they are committed.
We  place  a  high  value  on  the  African  States’ 
participation  in  the  discussion  on  the  international 
system  of  justice.  The  fact  that  African  countries 
make  up  the  biggest  United  Nations  regional  group 
among  the  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  shows 
their commitment to the fight against the most serious 
crimes of international law. In that context, however, it 
was with regret that we learned about the decision of 
some countries to withdraw from the Rome Statute. We 
hope that they will reconsider their position.
The  continual  enhancement  of 
the  Court’s 
effectiveness  is  vital  in  the  process  of  fighting 
impunity  for  the  gravest  crimes  under  international 
law. Cooperation with the Court is essential in order to 
suppress the grave crimes threatening peace, security 
and well-being of the world — that being the paramount 
consideration of the ICC and among the prime concerns 
of the Security Council and the United Nations at large.
Poland  reiterates  its  support  for  the  ICC  as  a 
court  capable  of  instituting  effective  proceedings, 
thereby  helping  to  maintain  peace  around  the  world, 
whose  jurisdiction  is  widely  recognized.  Stability, 
along  with  the  efficient  use  of  resources,  is  crucial 
for  dispensing  justice  expeditiously.  The  Court’s  new 
permanent  premises  should  allow  for  progress  in  that 
respect.  For  the  thousands  of  people  across  the  globe 
who  have  suffered  as  a  result  of  massive  crimes,  that 
building  stands  as  a  symbol  and  a  promise  of  long-
awaited  justice.  We  have  to  do  everything  we  can  to 
make sure that their hopes are not dashed. We should 
spare  no  effort  to  continue  supporting  the  Court  in 
fulfilling  its  mandate  and  to  protect  its  independence 
and impartiality.
Mr.  Mohamed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Sudan  would  like  to  reaffirm  its  dedication  to  the 
principles  underlying 
the  United  Nations.  Those 
principles  have  as  their  objective  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  the  strengthening  of 
sustainable  development  and  the  protection  of  human 
rights  through  international  cooperation  and  dialogue 
in order to enhance cordiality in international relations 
20/28 
16-35110
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.37
and  contribute  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes. 
To that end, the Charter of the United Nations includes 
provisions  that  require  respect  for  the  sovereignty  of 
States  and  non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs 
of  States  so  as  to  ensure  their  political  independence 
and  territorial  integrity.  International  justice  must  be 
viewed  as  a  way  to  overcome  economic,  social  and 
political  differences  and  prevent  the  use  of  force  in 
international relations.
The  fight  against  impunity  is  a  noble  objective, 
which  should  not  be  the  subject  of  differences  of 
opinion.  It  is  the  concern,  first  and  foremost,  of 
national judicial bodies, within the extent of their legal 
powers.  Attempts  to  politicize  international  justice 
are a platform for narrow interests and go against the 
objectives  agreed  to  by  the  international  community 
in  order  to  achieve  justice  and  succesfully  fulfil  the 
purposes and principles of the Charter. Such attempts 
violate international law and lead to increased tensions 
within 
instead  of 
strengthening peace, as advocated by the Charter.
international  community, 
the 
At  a  time  when  we  are  deliberating  on  the  report 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (see  A/71/342),  it 
is  relevant  to  note  that  relations  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC) 
should take into account the independent nature of the 
two bodies and that there is no organic or structural link 
between the two entities. It is therefore very perturbing 
to  see  attempts  by  some  States  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute to prevail upon the General Assembly to usurp 
the prerogatives of the ICC, and vice versa.
My  country  has  already  expressed  its  position 
in  that  regard  (see  A/70/PV.95)  and  denounced  the 
trends reflected in the draft resolution (A/70/L.47) on 
the  ICC  report.  The  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution 
intend  to  propose  a  new  paragraph  containing  vague 
interpretations that do not reflect the spirit of Vienna 
Conventions  and  Optional  Protocols,  and  which  we 
denounce.  The  Sudan  consistently  maintained  this 
position during the informal consultations on the draft 
resolution. We would like to state that we uphold that 
position and to call upon States to agree to the existing 
provisions and to reject any vague interpretations.
public  opinion  to  describe  the  Court  as  being  run  by 
the  big  Powers,  whose  aim  it  is  to  target  developing 
countries.
A number of questions demand answers. Where is 
the justice for the crimes committed in other parts of 
the  world,  and  why  is  the  ICC  turning  a  blind  eye  to 
those atrocities? Is the ICC not a world court charged 
with  combating  impunity  everywhere?  Where  are  the 
guiding  principles  of  neutrality,  independence  and 
integrity  when  it  comes  to  dispensing  justice?  These 
are difficult issues for which we have sought answers 
from  the  ICC,  but  in  vain.  The  conduct  of  the  Court, 
however,  provides  us  with  a  response.  The  ICC  is 
focusing  on  one  thing,  and  that  is  targeting  Africans 
and African States.
The relationship between the ICC and the Security 
Council  is  a  flagrant  form  of  politicization.  There 
should  not  be  any  link  between  the  Security  Council 
and the ICC. The Council, in fact, has the prerogative 
of  bringing  some  countries  before  the  Court  while  it 
spares others. This is a relationship that clearly reflects 
the existence of conflict between the interests of justice 
and political interests.
We are not the only ones to express our profound 
concern  regarding  the  negative  impact  of  voluntary 
contributions  to  the  budget  of  the  Court.  These  are 
contributions that harm the integrity and independence 
of  the  ICC.  Nor  are  we  the  only  ones  to  express 
our  concern  about  the  ambiguity  that  has  been 
compromising  the  spirit  of  integrity  embodied  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations. This is an ambiguity that 
has been described by an ICC official as being positive. 
This same ambiguity has led one a European Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  to  say  that  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court cannot apply to his own State.
The  actions  of  certain  States  that  are  using  the 
ICC  as  an  instrument  for  foreign  policy  are  cause 
for  concern.  Such  States  are  funding  the  ICC  in  the 
framework of the voluntary contribution system. Fifty 
per cent of the ICC annual budget is provided by such 
States, despite the fact that the Court is meant to be an 
independent body, including in terms of its finances.
The  practices  of  the  ICC  clearly  reflect  its 
transformation  into  a  tool  for  international  disputes 
and a mechanism for politicization. The Court focuses 
exclusively on Africa and is targeting African leaders 
and symbols, something which has compelled African 
This has given rise to a form of conflict between 
justice  and  peace.  We  certainly  recall  a  remark  by  a 
former  Prosecutor  of  the  Court,  who  said  that  he  had 
no interest in the efforts made by States to bring about 
peace. This was included in a legal report of the Court.
16-35110
21/28
A/71/PV.37 
31/10/2016
Today  we  are  witnessing,  particularly  from  the 
African  perspective,  structural  obstacles  within  the 
Court,  which  has  become  a  politicized  body  with 
double  standards.  We  expect  these  obstacles  and  that 
politicization, which stain the reputation of the ICC, to 
be eliminated in the near future. We hope that the Court 
will be able to exercise its authority with full regard for 
the principle of transparency.
The  Court  has  been  reaping  what  it  sows.  Yet 
justice  is  a  noble  principle,  which  should  not  be 
subjected  to  political  calculations.  The  International 
Court of Justice, with its record of peaceful settlement 
of disputes between States, has been in existence since 
1946. Instead of imposing jurisdiction over countries, 
that  Court,  pursuant  to  Article  36  of  its  Statute, 
exercises its jurisdiction only when States parties refer 
cases to it. Those who favour the International Criminal 
Court  express  their  concern  and  disappointment  over 
the  position  taken  by  African  States  and  other  States 
throughout the world. The population of those countries 
is more than 60 per cent of world’s population. 
We  pose  the  following  question:  In  the  14  years 
since  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute,  what  is  the 
number of cases in which the ICC has taken a decision? 
Over  14  years,  just  three.  Another  question  arises: 
What are the expenditures of the Court in order to deal 
with  these  matters?  Well,  here  we  are  talking  about 
millions of euros in expenditures. For one case, it can 
be $1.5 million. How can we call this justice? How can 
such a court combat impunity, I ask? Add to all of that 
the fact that the cases in which the Court has taken a 
decision have all been African cases.
The  Secretary-General’s  reports  (A/71/346  and 
A/71/349)  should  respect  the  relationship  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  International  Criminal 
Court  without  providing  any  vague  explanations.  My 
delegation  expresses  its  concern  over  the  interference 
of  the  international  community  in  the  prerogatives  of 
the Secretary-General and its dictating to officials the 
manner in which the reports should be submitted and 
how they should carry out their obligations.
In conclusion, my country reaffirms its dedication 
to  combating  impunity  and  in  favour  of  justice.  As 
for  the  two  bodies  which  are  competent  to  deal  with 
justice,  we  refuse  any  cooperation  with  the  ICC,  to 
whose Statute we are not a party. We have no obligation 
to that body pursuant to the Vienna Convention.
Mr.  Ruda  Santolaria  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
My delegation reaffirms Peru’s commitment to the fight 
against international impunity and to the International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC),  which,  in  accordance  with 
the  principle  of  complementarity,  is  the  institution  in 
the  best  position  to  prevent  the  most  serious  crimes 
from  going  unpunished.  In  that  context,  we  welcome 
with  interest  the  report  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  on  its  activities  in  the  2015-2016  judicial  year 
(see  A/71/342),  which  has  just  been  submitted  to 
the  General  Assembly  in  accordance  with  article  6 
of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United 
Nations and the International Criminal Court and with 
paragraph 28 of resolution 70/264.
Likewise, Peru reiterates its recognition of the work 
of  the  Court,  which  is  unfolding  in  strict  compliance 
with  the  provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  is  not 
influenced  by  any  other  type  of  consideration.  This 
is  reflected  in  the  unprecedented  caseload  currently 
on the ICC docket, which consists of 23 cases and 10 
situations. 
Among the judicial developments of the past year, 
my delegation wishes to emphasize that the Court has 
confirmed the first war crime indictment in relation to 
the destruction of historic monuments and buildings of 
a  cultural  character,  among  other  things.  In  addition, 
we welcome the fact that the Court has moved into its 
own headquarters on a permanent basis.
Despite  these  advances,  Peru  recognizes  that 
international  criminal  justice  continues  to  be  an 
aspiration, and that the International Criminal Court, as 
a young judicial institution on the international scene, 
needs greater support and a higher level of cooperation. 
Such support should come not only from States parties 
to the Rome Statute, but from all States Members of the 
United  Nations.  Likewise,  we  hope  that  we  will  have 
fruitful debates at the current session and that they will 
lead  to  a  draft  resolution  that  reflects  the  interests  of 
the  international  community  as  a  whole  in  the  fight 
against international impunity.
Recognizing,  on  the  other  hand,  that  the  Court 
can  continue  to  improve  its  efficiency,  Peru  supports 
the  adoption  of  measures  of  a  practical  nature,  in 
conformity  with  the  Rome  Statute,  to  streamline 
procedures and improve the effectiveness of the Court, 
including  the  proposed  amendments,  provided  that 
they do not undermine due process or the rights of the 
parties and the victims.
22/28 
16-35110
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.37
My  delegation  wishes  to  reiterate  the  need  for 
further  progress  towards  a  comprehensive  reform 
of  the  Security  Council,  particularly  with  regard  to 
its  working  methods  and  the  use  of  the  veto.  That  is 
especially relevant given the imperative of preventing 
heinous crimes. When a State has been unable to meet 
its  sovereign  responsibility  to  protect  its  population, 
we  have  observed  that  the  international  community 
has  been  unable  to  adequately  respond  and  the 
Security Council has been unable to meet its primary 
responsibility  of  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security. Therefore, Peru supports the French initiative 
and  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency 
Group  initiative  on  the  code  of  conduct  regarding 
Security  Council  action  against  genocide,  crimes 
against humanity or war crimes.
As  to  the  relationship  between  the  ICC  and  the 
Security  Council,  my  delegation  wishes  to  emphasize 
that,  for  the  first  time,  the  Council,  through  its 
presidency, has responded to letters of the International 
Criminal  Court  on  situations  referred  by  that  organ. 
Nevertheless, it is clear that much remains to be done 
with regard to strengthening this relationship.
In  another  vein,  Peru  —  which  belongs  to  the 
informal  ministerial  network  for  the  International 
Criminal  Court  —  attaches  the  greatest  importance 
to  the  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute.  Therefore, 
out of concern at recent developments that may affect 
such  universality,  we  take  this  opportunity  to  call  on 
States that have not yet done so to consider ratifying the 
Statute, preferably in its 2010 version.
Peru  is  a  peaceful  and  stable  country  that  has 
overcome  serious  internal  conflicts  in  its  history. 
That was possible thanks to the application of genuine 
accountability  mechanisms,  which  are  the  best  way 
of  preventing  the  recurrence  of  serious  human  rights 
violations.  We  therefore  encourage  States’  efforts  in 
promoting  the  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute  and 
strengthening  national  jurisdictions,  which  is  also 
directly  related  to  implementing  the  2030  Agenda, 
specifically  Sustainable  Development  Goal  16.  That 
Goal is an important platform for better incorporating 
matters  related 
the 
framework of the rule of law and for accessing justice 
at the national and international levels.
international 
to 
justice 
into 
Mrs. Pino Rivero (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): The 
Cuban delegation takes note of the report (see A/71/342) 
of the International Criminal Court (ICC), which was 
presented  by  Ms.  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  and 
it  wishes  to  express  before  the  General  Assembly  its 
commitment  to  the  fight  against  impunity  for  crimes 
that affect the international community.
The  current  international  state  of  affairs  and  the 
events  that  have  taken  place  over  the  past  few  years 
clearly  demonstrate  the  need  for  an  autonomous 
international  judicial  body  that  can  lead  the  fight 
against impunity for the most serious crimes. However, 
in  the  light  of  article  16  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  the 
ample  powers  bestowed  upon  the  Security  Council 
in  relation  to  the  work  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  the  Court  is  far  from  being  an  independent 
institution. Apart from undermining the essence of the 
organ’s jurisdiction, that issue violates the principle of 
independence  of  judicial  bodies  and  the  transparency 
and  impartiality  of  the  administration  of  justice.  The 
referrals  made  to  the  Court  by  the  Security  Council 
confirm that negative trend, to which our country has 
referred on various occasions.
In 
the  Security  Council’s  referral  processes 
international law is constantly violated and developing 
countries are attacked in the name of a supposed fight 
against impunity. It is for that reason that Cuba reiterates 
its  support  for  the  establishment  of  an  international 
criminal  jurisdiction  that  is  impartial,  non-selective, 
effective,  fair,  complementary  to  national  justice 
systems and genuinely independent, and therefore free 
from subjugation to political interests that might erode 
its essence.
Unfortunately,  issues  related  to  those  topics  were 
not  settled  at  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome 
Statute, held in Kampala from 31 May to 11 June 2010, 
and the Court, as an international criminal jurisdiction, 
continues to be subjected to decisions of the Security 
Council that are unlawful, anti-democratic, abusive and 
in breach of international law. The Council continues 
to  offer  total  impunity  to  those  really  responsible  for 
crimes against the international community.
It  is  unfortunate  that  various  Security  Council 
resolutions stipulate that crimes committed by forces of 
to certain Powers members of the Security Council that 
are not parties to the Statute of Rome remain exempt 
from any investigation. Such standards are offensive to 
the international community; they are evidence of the 
political  double  standard  with  which  the  the  Council 
operates, and they violate the principles governing the 
work of the International Criminal Court.
16-35110
23/28
A/71/PV.37 
31/10/2016
The Cuban delegation reiterates that the International 
Criminla Court cannot ignore international treaties and 
the  principles  of  international  law.  The  Court  must 
respect the legal principle concerning the consent of a 
State to be bound by a treaty, as provided for in article 
11 of part II of the Vienna Convention on the Law of 
Treaties of 23 May 1969. 
Cuba  wishes  to  reiterate  its  serious  concern 
regarding  the  precedent  set  by  the  decisions  of  the 
Court to initiate judicial proceedings against nationals 
of States non-parties to the Rome Statute that have not 
even accepted the jurisdiction of the Court, pursuant to 
article 12 of its Statute. 
As  rightly  noted  in  the  report,  the  Rome  Statute 
was never meant to replace national courts. We should 
not lose sight of the fact that the International Criminal 
Court  must  remain 
the  political 
organs of the United Nations and always function in a 
complementary way to national criminal courts.
independent  of 
For 50 years the people of Cuba have been victims 
of every form of aggression. Harassment and aggression 
have  caused  thousands  of  deaths  and  injuries  in  our 
country;  hundreds  of  families  have  lost  children, 
parents and siblings and there have been innumerable 
material, economic and financial losses. However, the 
definition of the crime of aggression arrived at during 
the  Kampala  Conference  is  far  from  encompassing 
some  of  the  elements  mentioned  here.  The  definition 
of  the  crime  of  aggression  should  cover  all  forms  of 
aggression that occur in international relations among 
States.  It  should  not  be  limited  to  the  use  of  armed 
force,  but  should  also  include  aggression  that  affects 
sovereignty, 
territorial 
the  political 
independence of States.
integrity  and 
The  International  Criminal  Court  must  report  to 
the  General  Assembly  on  its  activities  in  accordance 
with the Relationship Agreement. Although Cuba is not 
a party to the Criminal Court, it is willing to continue 
to actively participate in negotiation processes related 
to the Court, and especially on the draft resolution on 
the  report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  which 
the  General  Assembly  adopts  every  year,  which  must 
reflect  the  positions  of  both  States  parties  and  States 
non-parties to the Court.
Cuba  reaffirms  its  will  to  fight  impunity  and 
maintains  its  commitment  to  international  criminal 
justice, to the principles of transparency, independence 
and impartiality and to the unrestricted application of 
and respect for international law.
Ms.  Yparraguirre  (Philippines):  My  delegation 
would  like  to  thank  President  Silvia  Fernández  de 
Gurmendi for her comprehensive report to the General 
Assembly.
The  Philippines  reaffirms  its  commitment  to 
fighting  impunity,  to  ensuring  that  perpetrators  are 
held  accountable  for  their  crimes  and  to  seeing  that 
criminal  justice  is  delivered.  For  peace  and  security 
would  not  be  possible  without  justice.  Without  peace 
based on justice, the achievement of our 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development will be compromised.
Ensuring that individuals are held accountable for 
international crimes has been a defining achievement 
of international law. That is the legacy of Nuremberg, 
after the Second World War, when it was decided that:
“Crimes  against  international  law  are  committed 
by  men,  not  by  abstract  entities,  and  only  by 
punishing individuals who commit such crimes can 
the provisions of international law be enforced.”
Over  the  70  years  since  the  United  Nations  was 
founded  in  San  Francisco,  the  prayer  of  our  founding 
fathers  and  mothers  remains  a  beacon  of  hope  and 
commitment to save us — and those after us — from 
the scourge of war, which twice in their lifetime brought 
untold sorrow to all humankind.
Among its many achievements, the United Nations 
counts  the  rule  of  international  law  at  the  apex.  In 
international  criminal  justice,  the  United  Nations, 
through  the  International  Law  Commission  and  the 
initiative of Trinidad and Tobago in 1989, recognized 
the  undeniable  clamour  for  a  permanent  international 
criminal  court,  which  culminated  in  the  diplomatic 
conference  and  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  in 
1998, its entry into force in 2002, and the election of 
the first bench of judges in 2003.
Just as Nuremberg pointed to individuals as authors 
of untold sorrow and injustice to multitudes, so must we 
recognize individuals who contribute to the collective 
work of delivering international justice, a vocation that 
is certainly difficult, sometimes thankless and possibly 
dangerous. Indeed, it is people individually, rather than 
collectively,  who  make  justice  work:  members  of  the 
Secretariat  across  the  United  Nations  family  who  are 
involved  in  the  delivery  of  justice;  the  judges  of  the 
Court,  the  Prosecutor  and  their  respective  staffs;  the 
24/28 
16-35110
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.37
President  of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  and  his 
team and the lawyers, civil society advocates, witnesses 
and the victims — they are all unique individuals, but 
together  they  contribute  in  varying,  but  none  the  less 
valuable,  degrees  to  the  common  goal  of  delivering 
international criminal justice.
Our goal is universality. We join the call for many 
more countries to ratify or accede to the Rome Statute, 
particularly from our Asia-Pacific region. We welcome 
the accession of El Salvador as the newest State party to 
the Rome Statute. States parties or not, we should help 
each other to protect human rights and build domestic 
capacities,  including  through  assistance  with  human 
resource  development  such  as  the  training  of  judges, 
prosecutors, the police and the military.
The  five  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council  should  refrain  from  using  their  veto  in 
situations  involving  mass  atrocity  crimes  that  are 
under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court.  For  that  reason,  the  Philippines  supported  the 
code  of  conduct  regarding  Security  Council  action 
against  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  or  war 
crimes, elaborated in the context of the Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  Group.  We  also  call  on 
the  Security  Council  to  take  the  necessary  follow-up 
measures regarding situations that it has referred to the 
Court, so as to uphold the credibility of both institutions 
and ensure accountability.
The  Philippines  pays  close  attention 
to 
the 
increasingly heavy workload of the Court: its pending 
judicial  proceedings,  situations  and  preliminary 
examinations.  It  is  our  hope,  however,  that  the 
International  Criminal  Court  will  continue  to  deliver 
on its mandate with the utmost dedication, impartiality, 
efficiency and integrity.
Mr.  Wenaweser 
thank 
President  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi  for  the 
presentation of the report of the International Criminal 
Court (see A/71/342), which illustrates the impressive 
progress the Court has made in the reporting period. 
(Liechtenstein):  We 
We regret the recent decisions of South Africa and 
Burundi to leave the Court. South Africa in particular 
was instrumental in the drafting of the Rome Statute, 
and without its contribution, the Court would not have 
been  established.  We  hope  that  its  role  as  a  leader  in 
matters  pertaining  to  human  rights  and  justice  will 
cause the Government to reconsider its decision.
The decisions to withdraw come at a moment when 
the Court has made significant progress in its judicial 
work  and  is  regarded  as  a  body  that  will  dispense 
justice  all  around  the  world  —  from  Africa,  where 
the  largest  part  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
community  has  its  home,  to  other  parts  of  the  world, 
including places like Syria, where the Court does not 
yet have jurisdiction. In our quest for universality, any 
country  leaving  the  Court  is  naturally  an  unwelcome 
development.
At the same time, now is also a moment to pause 
and reflect on the historic significance of the institution 
and to rally around it in support. We are encouraged to 
see that policymakers, civil society and Governments 
all around the world have been doing just that, including 
this morning in the debate. 
The Rome Statute is without any question one of the 
biggest  achievements  in  the  history  of  treaty-making 
and codification of international law. Even States that 
have not yet decided to join it turn to its provisions, in 
particular with respect to the definition of crimes. And 
with all the difficulties the Court has had to overcome, 
the Rome Statute itself has demonstrated its value and 
worth since its entry into force. In today’s climate, we 
would probably have difficulty even setting up a process 
to  negotiate  a  treaty  for  an  independent  international 
court  with  jurisdiction  over  the  most  serious  crimes 
under international law; we certainly would not be able 
to  agree  on  an  outcome.  The  achievement  reflected 
in the Rome Statute is unique, and today provides an 
opportunity to stand up for it. 
The mere existence of the Court has given hope and 
voice to victims on every continent and will continue 
to  do  so.  A  court  with  the  mandate  to  adjudicate  the 
most serious crimes under international law and to do 
so  with  a  policy  of  seeking  accountability  for  those 
with the largest share of responsibility is bound to come 
under political pressure. And that is why we are asking 
those States that have joined it — almost two thirds of 
the United Nations membership — to stand up for it.
That  is  not  to  say  that  everything  is  perfect; 
discussions  are  needed  to  make  the  Court  a  better 
institution. We have consistently engaged in a critical 
analysis  of  its  performance  in  a  manner  that  is  open 
and productive at the same time. Its proceedings can be, 
and  must  become,  more  efficient  and  more  effective. 
We understand that others have their own concerns and 
we  will  continue  engaging  with  them  in  that  regard. 
16-35110
25/28
A/71/PV.37 
31/10/2016
And certainly, at such a critical juncture, engagement is 
more important than ever. We are prepared for it, on the 
understanding  that  the  integrity  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
and  of  its  key  provisions  in  particular,  provides  the 
context in which those discussions will take place.
Without  universality,  the  reality  remains  that  the 
ability of the International Criminal Court to provide 
justice  for  victims  in  many  countries  is  subject  to 
the  political  will  of  the  Security  Council  —  usually 
with  no  result.  Nowhere  has  the  Security  Council’s 
inability to provide accountability been more apparent 
than  in  Syria,  where  the  most  serious  crimes  under 
international law have been committed in a widespread 
and often systematic manner and are well documented. 
The proposal to refer the situation to the International 
Criminal  Court  was  vetoed  in  2014,  and  the  Council 
has been silent ever since on the issue of accountability 
for crimes in Syria and has been paralysed with regard 
to  all  other  aspects.  We  look  forward  to  working 
with  those  that  are  willing  to  commit  to  making  the 
Court  a  more  universal  institution,  especially  at  this 
difficult juncture.
While business as usual is certainly not the order 
of  the  day,  it  is  important  that  the  work  of  the  Court 
continue. And crucial developments have indeed taken 
place  in  the  reporting  period.  Eight  additional  States 
have ratified the Kampala amendments on the crime of 
aggression,  bringing  the  total  number  of  ratifications 
to 32. That means that the threshold of 30 ratifications 
required for activation has been reached. States parties 
are therefore able to activate the jurisdiction of the Court 
over  this  crime  in  2017.  The  decision  will  make  the 
most serious forms of the illegal use of force justiciable 
before an international court for the first time since the 
Nuremberg trials, whose seventieth anniversary we are 
commemorating this year. The Court will thereby help 
to enforce a key provision of the Charter of the United 
Nations: the prohibition of the illegal use of force. 
We  are  committed  to  working  closely  with  all 
States  parties  —  those  that  have  ratified  and  those 
that have yet to do so — towards a smooth and simple 
activation decision in a year’s time. We also continue 
our outreach to States to further increase the group of 
ratifiers and to engage with States that are interested in 
ratifying and implementing the Kampala amendments.
We encourage States that are interested in joining 
the ICC to ratify the Rome Statute in its 2010 version 
with the Kampala amendments, just as El Salvador has 
done during the reporting period.
Mr. Emilou (Cyprus): At the outset, I would like to 
express my warm appreciation to President Fernández 
de  Gurmendi  for  her  comprehensive  presentation  of 
the report covering the period from 1 August 2015 to 
31 July 2016 (see A/71/342).
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered earlier by the observer of the European Union 
and  would  like  to  deliver  additional  remarks  in  its 
national capacity, focusing on the goal of universality 
of the Rome Statute.
It is our firm belief that the International Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  significantly  contributes  to  the  overall 
goal of the United Nations to work towards a more just 
and peaceful world, serving, in this way, the purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. 
As  reflected  in  the  report,  the  Court  had  another 
very  full  year  in  terms  of  judicial  proceedings, 
investigations, 
and 
institutional developments. The Court, as it continues 
at  full  speed,  is  currently  seized  of  23  cases  and  10 
situations in different parts of the world, and a larger 
number of crimes under the Rome Statute.
examinations 
preliminary 
On 27 September, the Court delivered its judgment 
in  the  Ahmad  Al-Faqi  Al-Mahdi  case.  The  Trial 
Chamber  unanimously  found  Mr.  Al-Mahdi  guilty 
as  a  co-perpetrator  of  the  war  crime  consisting  in 
intentionally  directing  attacks  against  religious  and 
historic buildings in Timbuktu, Mali, in June and July 
2012.  It  was  the  first  time  that  the  Court  dealt  with 
the intentional destruction of cultural property in the 
context of a conflict, which is defined as a war crime 
under  article  8  of  the  Rome  Statute.  In  its  reasoning, 
the  Court  reflected  some  of  the  longest-standing 
and  most  firmly  established  principles  governing 
the  conduct  of  hostilities.  It  echoed  in  substance  the 
Regulations concerning the Laws and Customs of War 
on  Land  —  the  Hague  Regulations,  annexed  to  the 
1907 Hague Convention — the 1954 Hague Convention 
for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of 
Armed  Conflict,  and  the  Protocols  Additional  to  the 
Geneva  Conventions  of  1949.  The  cooperation  and 
support of States and organizations such as UNESCO 
was  crucial  in  bringing  the  Al-Mahdi  case  before 
the ICC.
26/28 
16-35110
31/10/2016 
A/71/PV.37
The destruction of cultural heritage in any country 
constitutes a collective loss for humankind as a whole. 
Protecting  cultural  property  benefits  particularly  the 
country  and  continent  concerned.  The  recent  ICC 
judgment  therefore  underlines  that  the  international 
community  remains  vigilant  in  holding  accountable 
those responsible for such war crimes. 
That brings me to my next point, that cooperation 
is the cornerstone of the Court’s effective functioning. 
We are pleased to note that during the reporting period, 
the United Nations continued to work closely with the 
Court to further strengthen cooperation and ensure the 
effective implementation of the Relationship Agreement. 
We moreover support the further strengthening of that 
relationship by means of practical steps, such as those 
set out in previous reports of the Court to the Assembly 
of States Parties on the status of ongoing cooperation 
between  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the 
United Nations. Furthermore, cooperation with States 
parties  and  non-parties  remains  a  key  element  in  the 
wider effort.
Although, in the Al-Mahdi case the Court was able 
to address the destruction of cultural property in Mali, 
in  other  instances  it  has  not  been  able  to  deal  with 
similar situations that may have taken place or are still 
taking  place.  While  the  Court  has  a  global  mandate, 
it  does  not  have  universal  participation.  It  may  be 
recognized that the universal ratification of the Rome 
Statute  remains  the  only  realistic  way  of  effectively 
addressing 
jurisdictional  gaps,  and  consequently 
current challenges and shortcomings, and it is crucial 
to the application of the principle of equality before the 
law and for the effective deterrence of the most serious 
crimes under international law.
In that respect, we warmly welcome the accession 
of  the  El  Salvador  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  take  this 
opportunity to call upon all non-party States to ratify 
the  Statute.  The  large  number  of  ratifications  shows 
a  commitment  by  a  majority  of  countries  to  ensure 
accountability  for  international  crimes.  During  the 
reporting  period,  the  Republic  of  Cyprus,  along  with 
Denmark  ——  as  co-focal  points  of  the  Assembly  of 
States  Parties  for  achieving  the  universality  and  full 
implementation  of  the  Rome  Statute  —–  continued 
to  promote  the  collective  goal  of  achieving  universal 
adherence  to  the  Statute  through  various  events  and 
initiatives. We are currently in the process of preparing 
a social media campaign to promote the Rome Statute.
At  this  important  juncture,  let  us  not  forget  that 
before its creation, the ICC was thought by many to be a 
mission impossible. Ever since, and as illustrated by the 
Al-Mahdi decision, it has been tangibly contributing to 
the advancement of international justice. Yet right now 
the  Court  faces  its  biggest  challenge  to  date.  At  this 
critical juncture and as the Court continues to be the 
indispensable court of last resort, it is more than ever 
incumbent on us, as Member States, to work tirelessly 
to maintain its deserved global recognition and further 
strengthen and support it.
We are deeply perturbed by the decision of South 
Africa, one of first signatories of the Statute, and that 
of  Burundi  to  withdraw  from  the  Rome  Statute.  We 
are  similarly  perturbed  by  the  stated  intention  of  the 
Gambia to withdraw. Although withdrawing from the 
Statute  is  a  sovereign  act  of  the  State  concerned,  we 
strongly  call  on  all  three  countries  to  reconsider  and 
to share their concerns before the Assembly of States 
Parties, in accordance with the Statute. We call on all 
countries that have concerns to utilize the Assembly of 
States  Parties  as  the  appropriate  forum  for  dialogue, 
while  respecting  the  independence  and  impartiality 
of the Court. Together, we have a common interest in 
fighting impunity for grave crimes against humanity.
We are of the view that to abandon the Court is to 
assist in thwarting the reach of international justice. We 
all have a duty to history, present and future, as well as 
to the victims of heinous international crimes — a duty 
that  we  must  fulfil  by  protecting  and  supporting  the 
Court  and  helping  it  to  overcome  current  challenges. 
In that context, my delegation would like to take this 
opportunity  to  reiterate  its  commitment  to  the  Court 
and  to  reaffirm  the  unfailing  support  it  has  extended 
to  the  Court  since  its  inception.  We  also  extend  an 
open and eager invitation to engage in a constructive 
dialogue with all Member States that have concerns.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  mentioning  another 
milestone  development  with  respect  to  international 
criminal law. During the reporting period, the threshold 
of 30 ratifications of the Kampala amendments to the 
Rome Statute on the crime of aggression was reached. 
Currently,  32  States  have  ratified  the  amendment. 
Given  that  development,  after  1  January  2017  States 
parties  will  be  able  to  take  a  decision  to  activate 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  ICC  over  this  specific  crime, 
thereby completing the coherence of the Rome Statute 
as  conceived  in  1998.  We  look  forward  to  even  more 
ratifications  in  the  coming  months,  as  that  will  pave 
16-35110
27/28
A/71/PV.37 
31/10/2016
the  way  for  a  more  impressive  activation  as  soon  as 
possible after 1 January 2017.
We continue to act on all fronts in the hope that we 
will be able to consolidate and reinforce international 
criminal  justice,  rather  than  deconstruct  the  Rome 
Statute system.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
28/28 
16-35110
