United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
22nd plenary meeting
Saturday, 24 September 2016, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.22
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In the absence of the President, Ms. Young (Belize), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
Organization  and  its  organs  up  to  the  expectations  of 
Member States.
The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Yousuf  bin  Alawi  bin  Abdallah,  Minister 
Responsible  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Sultanate 
of Oman.
Mr.  Abdallah  (Oman)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  would 
like  to  begin  my  statement  by  congratulating  the 
President and his country, the Republic of Fiji, on his 
election  to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-first  session.  I  am  confident  that  his  wisdom 
and competence will enable him to steer the work of the 
Assembly to a successful conclusion. I would also like to 
assure him that my delegation stands ready to cooperate 
with him in achieving our desired goals. Nor should I 
miss this opportunity to express our appreciation to his 
predecessor, Mr. Mogens Lykketoft of the Kingdom of 
Denmark, for his effectiveness in conducting the work 
of the Assembly at its seventieth session, which was key 
to  ensuring  that  agreements  were  reached  on  several 
international issues.
I would also like to put on record our appreciation 
for  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon’s  tireless  efforts 
over the past 10 years to serve the shared interests of 
the international community and bring the work of the 
Since its establishment in 1945, the United Nations 
has  attained  a  position  of  esteem  in  international 
relations. In that regard, we would like to express our 
appreciation  to  the  Organization’s  founding  States, 
especially  the  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council,  for  their  efforts  to  maintain  international 
peace and security despite the challenges they continue 
to face. They have made the Organization a safe haven 
in which States can settle their disputes and differences 
by  peaceful  means,  based  on  the  provisions  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international  law, 
which  uphold  the  principles  of  mutual  respect,  good-
neighbourliness, non-interference in the internal affairs 
of States and peaceful coexistence.
We  would  be  remiss  if  we  failed  to  point  out 
that  the  world  has  seen  many  successes  and  positive 
developments,  politically, 
socially,  economically, 
scientifically  and  technically,  which  today  have  made 
us  closer  and  more  interdependent  than  ever  before. 
However, we are still dealing with many challenges and 
tragedies that humankind can never forget, challenges 
that should motivate us all to work harder in support of 
international peace and security.
We  in  the  Sultanate  of  Oman  continue  to  believe 
that there is a solution for every problem as long as our 
interests converge, the necessary political will is there 
and we act in a concerted way. That is because by their 
nature people are inclined to love peace, understanding 
and  peaceful  coexistence,  which  serve  the  interests 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29823 (E)
*1629823*
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
of all parties based on the golden rule that we should 
do  unto  others  as  we  would  do  unto  ourselves.  My 
country is therefore among the States that have adopted 
a  policy  of  dialogue,  negotiation  and  conciliation  in 
order  to  settle  disputes  by  peaceful  means,  based  on 
the provisions of Chapter VI of the Charter and on the 
standards and traditions of our human heritage. Thanks 
to  the  peaceful  diplomatic  approach  of  His  Majesty 
Sultan Qaboos Bin Said of Oman, we have succeeded 
in establishing friendly relations and cooperation with 
countries all over the world that we are keen to maintain 
and develop in every area for the interests and for the 
good of the Sultanate and other countries.
We should also take this opportunity to emphasize 
the centrality of the Palestinian question for stability in 
the  Middle  East.  If  we  cannot  reach  a  comprehensive 
and just solution to the issue, it is difficult to imagine 
the possibility of establishing normal relations between 
the  States  and  peoples  of  the  region  in  a  way  that 
can  foster  mutual  trust  and  coexistence.  Despite  the 
efforts of the international community and the various 
initiatives  to  help  the  Palestinians  and  the  Israelis  to 
reach an agreement on a road map that would look after 
the interest of both parties, all efforts failed to achieve 
the desired outcome. Therefore, we would like to renew 
our  call  to  the  international  community  to  intensify 
efforts through a new perspective that would enable the 
concerned  parties  to  reach  a  comprehensive  and  just 
settlement that would end the long conflict.
We would also like to express our appreciation to 
the  United  Nations  and  to  the  Special  Envoys  of  the 
Secretary-General  for  their  efforts  to  reach  peaceful 
settlements to crises in a number of States in the Middle 
East, especially the Syrian Arab Republic, the Republic 
of Yemen and Libya. However, we should note that the 
situations in those States have suffered serious setbacks, 
which threaten international peace and security.
We  believe  in  the  importance  of  adhering  to  the 
principle  of  dialogue  in  order  to  resolve  disputes  by 
peaceful  means.  Since  the  onset  of  the  crises  in  the 
three  aforementioned  States,  the  Sultanate  of  Oman 
has sought to reconcile points of view with the parties 
concerned and to encourage them to reject differences 
and  resume  negotiation.  The  Sultanate  has  hosted 
several  meetings  towards  that  end,  in  coordination 
with  the  United  Nations.  In  that  respect,  we  cannot 
fail to pay tribute to the laudable efforts of the State of 
Kuwait for hosting the Yemen peace negotiations. We 
laud, in particular, the efforts exerted by His Highness 
Amir  Sheikh  Sabah  Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah  to 
bridge the gap in the views of Yemeni parties. The goal 
has been to achieve a win-win solution to the conflict 
through peaceful negotiations.
In closing, we must emphasize the need for the spirit 
of joint international action, which makes it incumbent 
upon all of us to rid ourselves of the negative aspects 
of  the  past  and  concentrate  on  the  positive  elements 
of the future. Our goal should be to develop relations, 
enhance cooperation, deepen interests between States 
and  peoples,  and  settle  differences  through  dialogue 
that  is  based  on  the  principles  and  provisions  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international  legal 
principles. By doing so, the United Nations will remain 
the beacon of peace for all States.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Shaikh  Khalid  Bin  Ahmed  Al-Khalifa,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Bahrain.
Mr.  Al-Khalifa  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the outset, I am pleased to extend to Mr. Thomson, and 
through him to the friendly country of Fiji, my sincere 
congratulations on his election to the presidency of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  I  wish 
him  sustained  success  in  the  discharge  of  the  noble 
tasks with which he has been entrusted. I also wish to 
express our appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Mogens 
Lykketoft  for  his  outstanding  contribution  and  his 
efficient  and  highly  professional  management  of  the 
work of the General Assembly at the seventieth session.
We commend the extraordinary efforts exerted by 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon during his two terms 
with a view to achieving the goals of the international 
Organization in establishing the foundations of peace 
and security in the world. We share the hope he expressed 
in his statement at the beginning of the general debate 
(see  A/71/PV.8)  that the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  will  enter  into  force  by  the  end  of  this  year. 
We also endorse his proposal for the establishment of 
a high-level panel to find practical solutions that will 
improve  decision-making  mechanisms  at  the  United 
Nations. We support the continued pursuit of the great 
achievements  that  took  place  in  all  domains,  notably 
in  the  fields  of  education  and  health,  during  the  past 
decade.  I  seize  this  opportunity  to  express  to  the 
Secretary-General our thanks and appreciation for all 
that he has accomplished at the helm of the Organization 
and to wish him every success in his future endeavours 
in the service of his own country and the world at large.
2/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
The theme of this general debate, “The Sustainable 
Development  Goals:  a  universal  push  to  transform 
our world”, testifies to our collective will and earnest 
desire  to  achieve  those  Goals.  Under  the  leadership 
of  His  Majesty  King  Hamad  bin  Isa  Al  Khalifa,  my 
country attaches great importance to the Goals and has 
already  started  to  implement  them,  as  is  documented 
in international reports. My country will persevere in 
its commitment, consistent with its ambitious national 
plans  and  programmes,  fully  convinced  that  the 
achievement of the Goals promises a bright future for 
its citizens.
A few days ago, the United Nations held an important 
demonstration of its relationship with the Kingdom of 
Bahrain, namely, the Sustainable Development Award 
ceremony  hosted  by  Bahrain  on  23  September  on  the 
margins  of  the  General  Assembly.  There,  His  Royal 
Highness  Prince  Khalifa  bin  Salman  Al  Khalifa’s 
Sustainable  Development  Award  was  presented  to 
Professor  Anna  Tibaijuka,  former  Executive  Director 
of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme 
(UN-Habitat),  a  deserving  laureate.  The  presentation 
underlines 
the  Kingdom’s  vision  of  sustainable 
development as a value that it not only seeks to achieve 
but also one that it seeks to promote by supporting all 
endeavours aimed at realizing it throughout the world.
The  achievements  of  Bahraini  women  at  the 
international  level  —  notably  by  being  elected  to 
membership  of  the  Commission  on  the  Status  of 
Women  and  the  Executive  Board  of  UN-Women  and 
the fact that Bahrain received first place internationally 
for the highest growth rate of women’s participation in 
economic activities, as documented in a report of the 
International Labour Organization this year — testify 
to  the  close  cooperation  between  the  Kingdom  of 
Bahrain and the United Nations and the keen interest 
of my country, represented by the Supreme Council for 
Women  under  the  leadership  of  Her  Royal  Highness 
Princess Sabika Bint Ibrahim Al-Khalifa, in enhancing 
the  empowerment  of  Bahraini  women  nationally  and 
internationally  and  accelerating  their  participation  in 
all Government and community sectors as a principal 
component  that  has  contributed,  and  will  continue  to 
contribute,  to  the  process  of  community  development 
and progress.
“Development  that  does  not  have  the  citizen  as 
its  target  is  futile  and  undesirable”.  Those  were  the 
words  of  His  Majesty  the  King  at  the  launch  of  the 
Bahrain Economic Vision 2030, clearly affirming that 
the well-being, happiness and stability of our citizens 
are  the  main  pillars  of  development  in  all  fields  and 
that  the  Government’s  efforts  to  achieve  the  global 
development  goals  are  in  parallel  with  its  national 
economic  vision.  The  Government’s  action  plan  and 
its  United  Nations  Development  Programme  country 
programme  document  both  stress  that  Bahrain  will 
continue to guarantee to all citizens, men and women 
alike,  the  enjoyment  of  all  their  constitutional  rights. 
We shall steadfastly pursue our approach to progress, 
prosperity  and  advancement,  despite  all  political  and 
economic challenges and any attempt to divert us from 
our national task.
Development goes hand in hand with the security 
and  stability  of  the  individual  citizen  and  of  society 
at large. Neither can be achieved in isolation from the 
other,  without  a  stable  and  secure  State,  with  good 
governance  and  solid  and  effective  institutions.  Such 
is  the  road  map  that  should  be  followed  in  all  States 
generally  and  in  the  Middle  East  in  particular,  where 
the  enormous  challenges  have  been  considered  grave 
threats to international peace and security. It is for that 
reason that protection of the foundations of the nation 
State in our own countries and preventing their collapse 
in other countries is the basis for sustaining security, 
development  and  prosperity.  It  deserves  to  become 
the major objective of all actors and groupings of the 
international  community,  without  double  standards 
or  hidden  agendas.  When  united  regionally  and 
internationally, we are capable of addressing all those 
challenges, particularly terrorism.
We  should  jointly  commit  ourselves,  without 
hesitation  and  in  full  determination,  to  eradicating 
all the underlying causes of terrorism, cutting off the 
sources  of  financing  to  terrorists  and  resolutely  and 
vigorously protecting our societies from the discourse 
of  hate  and  extremism.  In  that  regard,  we  assert  that 
anti-terrorism  measures  will  not  be  effective  through 
legislation and laws that contravene the Charter of the 
United Nations and the principles of international law. 
The approach taken by the United States Congress in 
passing  the  Justice  against  the  Sponsors  of  Terrorism 
Act  jeopardizes  international  relations  based  on  the 
principle  of  the  equal  sovereignty  of  States  and  their 
sovereign immunity. It constitutes a dangerous precedent 
in relations between nations and threatens the stability 
of  the  international  system,  which  in  turn  adversely 
affects international efforts to combat terrorism.
16-29823
3/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
The  question  of  displaced  persons  and  refugees 
is among the serious issues generated by the situation 
prevailing  in  some  countries  in  our  region.  It  is 
negatively  impacting  development  efforts  and,  if  not 
resolved,  will  lead  to  more  instability  not  just  in  the 
region,  but  throughout  the  world.  The  Syrian  crisis, 
in  all  its  phases  and  developments,  constitutes  the 
greatest human tragedy of our contemporary world. In 
a country that just a few years ago welcomed thousands 
of  refugees,  the  Syrian  population  today  is  unable  to 
live in peace and security on its own land. More than 
half of the Syrian people live as refugees or internally 
displaced persons, while the situation deteriorates day 
after  day,  creating  a  vacuum  exploited  by  terrorist 
organizations to consolidate their position and threaten 
the  entire  region.  We  must,  as  an  ethical  and  human 
imperative, address those threats, and the international 
community must act in unison to confront the problem 
from all angles.
We appreciate the efforts of the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia,  the  State  of  Kuwait,  the  Hashemite  Kingdom 
of  Jordan,  the  Lebanese  Republic  and  the  Republic 
of  Turkey  to  mitigate  the  humanitarian  predicament 
of  Syrians.  We  invite  the  international  community 
to  aid  the  efforts  of  our  countries.  We  commend  the 
United  Nations  for  its  efforts  in  that  respect,  which 
recently culminated in the high-level plenary meeting 
on  addressing  large  movements  of  refugees  and 
migrants and the adoption of the New York Declaration 
for  Refugees  and  Migrants  (resolution  71/1,  annex). 
Follow-up  actions  to  implement  the  provisions  of  the 
Declaration will undoubtedly have a positive impact.
The Kingdom of Bahrain has consistently supported 
the aspirations of the Syrian people to build, in accord 
with their own will, a civil State with a national fabric 
rich  in  cultural  and  human  heritage  and  diverse  in 
its  various  components,  with  a  view  to  restoring  the 
spirit of love and tolerance. We call on all States with 
leverage in the Syrian crisis, notably the United States 
and  the  Russian  Federation,  to  join  efforts  to  achieve 
a  political  solution  to  the  crisis  along  the  lines  of  the 
Geneva  communiqué  and  Security  Council  resolution 
2254 (2015). Furthermore, it is imperative to implement 
Security  Council 
(2014),  which 
stipulates the direct, unfettered and immediate delivery 
of humanitarian assistance to the entire Syrian territory, 
thereby  saving  that  beloved  country  and  its  people 
from a tragedy we all want to see ended, avoiding the 
collapse of the remaining State institutions, preserving 
resolution  2165 
Syria’s  territorial  integrity,  eradicating  all  terrorist 
organizations at large in the country and putting an end 
to  the  regional  meddling,  whether  direct  or  by  proxy, 
that hinders the peaceful settlement of the crisis.
In the same vein, we encourage all efforts in Iraq 
to overcome the problems facing the reconstruction of 
the State and its institutions and the fulfilment of the 
will of the Iraqi people through the participation of all 
political factions, without external pressure. We stress 
the need for perseverance in the efforts to re-establish 
State  authority  over  the  entire  national  territory  by 
ousting  the  terrorist  organizations  and  to  combat  the 
criminal and inhumane practices of extremist militias 
against Iraqis and their neighbours under the pretext of 
fighting terrorism.
We  look  forward  to  the  day  when  we  shall  see 
an  independent  Palestinian  State,  living  in  peace  and 
security,  side  by  side  with  the  State  of  Israel.  I  have 
no  doubt  whatsoever  that  the  people  of  the  region, 
both Arabs and Israelis, are eager to see this day and 
look forward to a just and comprehensive peace. That 
hope remains contingent on Israel’s admission that its 
security  and  stability  cannot  be  ensured  unless  the 
same holds true for the Palestinian people. Israel needs 
to be serious about achieving a just and durable peace in 
the region, with Palestinians and Israelis alike feeling 
that they are safe and that their future and the future of 
their children are also safe. An end must be put to the 
practices that hinder the long-awaited peace, notably the 
violations against the sanctity of Al-Aqsa mosque that 
offend the feelings of Muslims all over the world. All 
illegal settlements in the occupied Palestinian territory 
should  be  dismantled.  Recognition  must  be  given  to 
the  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  an  independent 
State,  within  the  4  June  1967  boundaries,  with  East 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  consistent  with  international 
law and instruments and the relevant resolutions of the 
United  Nations.  Israel  should  respond  positively  and 
in  an  open  spirit  to  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  which 
is still valid and on the table. We continue to embrace 
the Initiative and shall not back down, as it offers the 
correct  and  appropriate  approach  to  laying  down  the 
foundation  of  peace  in  the  region  and  to  promoting 
cooperation among its nations and States.
With  respect  to  the  situation  in  the  Republic  of 
Yemen,  the  commitment  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain, 
a  member  of  the  Arab  coalition  to  restore  legitimacy 
in  Yemen,  will  remain  steadfast.  Bahrain  has  spared 
no  resources  or  blood  to  achieve  this  noble  goal,  and 
4/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
we  shall  continue  on  that  path,  no  matter  how  great 
the  sacrifices,  until  the  time  when  the  legitimate 
Government  under  the  leadership  of  His  Excellency 
President  Abdrabuh  Mansour  Hadi  Mansour  is  in  a 
position to take control of the entire territory of Yemen.
We underline the humanitarian role played by the 
coalition  forces  and  their  determination  not  to  target 
civilians.  We  demand  that  the  coup  d’état  forces  and 
their supporters, whose ambition is to take control of the 
institutions of the State, immediately cease committing 
any  negative  actions  that  hinder  stability.  We  do  not 
stand  against  any  Yemeni  party,  but  we  do  stand  by 
Yemen and the Yemeni people in their fight against all 
who try to harm Yemen or control it from outside. We 
will continue this support until a political settlement is 
reached and a peaceful solution that puts an end to the 
suffering of the Yemeni people is implemented.
Such  a  solution  must  safeguard  the  security, 
stability and unity of the Yemeni people in accordance 
with  international  terms  of  reference,  notably  the 
Gulf  Cooperation  Council  (GCC)  initiative  and  its 
implementation  mechanism, 
the 
National  Dialogue  Conference  and  resolution  2216 
(2015). We commend the efforts exerted by Mr. Ismail 
Ould Cheikh Ahmed, the Secretary-General’s Special 
Envoy for Yemen, and by the State of Kuwait to help 
find a settlement to the crisis.
the  outcome  of 
With respect to Libya, that brotherly Arab country 
badly needs all parties to show solidarity, work together 
to get through the present difficult stage and overcome 
the challenges that the country faces. Those challenges 
are obstructing the people’s aspirations to live in peace 
and  enjoy  the  stability  of  a  unified  State  with  robust 
modern institutions. We welcome the formation of the 
Government of National Accord and stress the need to 
provide it with the necessary support in order for the 
Libyan House of Representatives to build the necessary 
confidence  that  will  enable  it  to  lead  the  country, 
discharge  its  duties  and  responsibilities  and  rid  the 
country of terrorist organizations by eradicating them.
With  respect  to  the  issue  of  the  Western  Sahara, 
the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  underlines  the  need  to  find 
a  political  settlement  on  the  basis  of  the  Moroccan 
initiative for self-government and the relevant Security 
Council resolutions, so that the territorial integrity of 
Morocco may be guaranteed and that the security and 
stability in the region may be enhanced. We welcome 
the  return  of  Morocco  to  the  African  Union  and  the 
resumption of its vital role on the continent.
With regard to the Islamic Republic of Iran, we in 
the GCC and all Arab countries have spared no effort to 
build the best relations possible with that neighbouring 
country  on  the  basis  of  good-neighbourliness  and 
respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  States,  consistent  with 
the  practices  and  principles  of  international  relations 
between  States.  We  have  not  hesitated  for  an  instant 
to build bridges and seek to improve relations with it. 
However, despite all these efforts and sincere wishes, 
there has never been a serious response from Iran. The 
efforts we undertook ended either in an impasse or with 
a creation of new problems and crises that obligated us 
to return to square one.
We  still  hear  the  same  irresponsible  sectarian 
discourse  from  Iran  and  have  witnessed  the  damage 
done  to  our  bilateral  and  multilateral  relations.  In 
the  most  recent  incident,  Iranian  officials  made  false 
allegations  against  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia, 
which  is  a  country  that  plays  a  laudable  role  in 
efficiently providing hospitality, safety, protection and 
care for large numbers of pilgrims during the seasons 
of Hajj and Umrah. No one can deny or minimize the 
importance of those efforts.
We  continue  to  face  Iran’s  attempts  to  jeopardize 
our  security  and  social  peace  through  the  support  it 
provides  to  groups  and  militias  under  its  authority, 
such  as  the  terrorists  of  Hizbullah  and  the  Iranian 
Revolutionary  Guard  Corps.  Iran  also  continues  to 
occupy three Emirati islands in the Arabian Gulf and 
refuses mediation for a peaceful settlement.
The  situation  is  clear,  and  there  is  no  way  that  it 
will change if Iran does not undertake a comprehensive 
change in its foreign policies, put an end to its hostile 
policies  and  show  an  open  attitude  towards  our 
countries. Doing those things would undoubtedly pave 
the  way  for  the  region  to  enter  a  new  era  of  stability 
and development.
The Kingdom of Bahrain reaffirms the need to join 
efforts  aimed  at  establishing  a  zone  free  of  weapons 
of  mass  destruction,  notably  nuclear  weapons,  in  the 
Middle East, including the Arabian Gulf region, while 
stressing  the  right  of  countries  to  use  nuclear  power 
for  peaceful  purposes.  Nuclear  power  was  created 
only  to  serve  human  beings  and  to  improve  their 
lives,  not  to  harm  them  or  be  used  as  lethal  weapons 
16-29823
5/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
that  might  obliterate  entire  cities  and  kill  millions  of 
innocent people.
We  have  before  us  an  opportunity  to  overcome 
the challenges facing us and maintain the strength and 
cohesion  of  our  nations  and  peoples.  We  belong  to  a 
region that has made tremendous human contributions 
and  great  civilizational  achievements.  Our  region 
has  contributed  effectively  to  all  that  we  witness  and 
live out today by way of the human progress we have 
contributed to in various fields of endeavour, including 
the  sciences.  All  of  that  was  possible  only  because 
those who lived in the region did so in an atmosphere of 
full security and harmony, without divisions based on 
ethnic, ideological or religious differences. We should 
remember that fact as we work to build the future we 
seek  for  our  countries  and  future  generations  with 
a  view  to  making  important  contributions  to  human 
civilization that we can be proud of.
I  would  repeat  here  a  few  words  by  His  Majesty 
King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa:
“The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  and  its  people 
epitomize  the  principles  of  friendship,  tolerance, 
mutual respect and openness to the world. We are 
proud  of  our  diversity  and  our  solid  belief  that 
every individual has the right to enjoy a safe and 
decent life.”
Those words, characteristic of the Kingdom of Bahrain 
and its citizens, clearly reflect the spirit of the region 
and the aspirations of its people.
I would like to conclude by saying that the Kingdom 
of Bahrain, with its leadership and enlightened people 
eager  to  embrace  the  love  and  peace  of  the  world 
and  all  its  peoples,  will  remain  faithful  to  the  lofty 
human values and principles on which we have prided 
ourselves since time immemorial. As we confront the 
challenges to the Kingdom’s safety and achievements, 
we shall hold fast to these values, while remembering 
that they illuminate our path towards a safe and stable 
society  in  which  everyone  enjoys  security,  prosperity 
and progress.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms.  Sushma  Swaraj,  Minister  for  External  Affairs  of 
the Republic of India.
Ms.  Swaraj  (India)  (spoke  in  Hindi;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  On  behalf 
of India and on my own behalf, I congratulate Mr. Peter 
Thomson  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-first session. I would also like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for his service to the United Nations, the 
largest peace movement in history.
A year has passed since I stood here at this hallowed 
rostrum  to  address  the  members  of  the  international 
community (see A/70/PV.22). Since then, many things 
have changed in the world around us — some for the 
better, some for the worse, and many that have been a 
cause for great concern. There can be no better platform 
to  ponder  our  actions  and  our  achievements  over  the 
past year. We must remember that we will be defined 
not just by our actions but, equally, by our inaction.
A number of issues have been debated in the General 
Assembly, from the necessity of global partnerships in 
sharing new vaccines and promoting access to affordable 
drugs  to  counter  antimicrobial  resistance  to  the  need 
for faster implementation of the Sendai Framework for 
Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, from the challenges 
of ensuring well-ordered mobility of productive human 
resources  to  the  necessity  of  adequate  consultations 
with 
troop-contributing  countries  before  framing 
mandates for United Nations peacekeeping operations. 
However,  since  my  time  is  limited,  I  would  therefore 
focus on only some of the most pressing issues facing 
the international community.
The  true  challenges  of  our  time  are  to  end  the 
curse  of  harsh  poverty,  which  still  lurks  in  so  many 
corners  of  our  world,  to  ensure  that  the  fruits  of 
growing  prosperity  reach  those  who  need  it  most,  to 
take forward the mission of gender equality and protect 
women where progress on gender issues has lapsed, and 
to ensure peace across borders, not least because there 
can be no prosperity without peace.
I congratulate the President of the General Assembly 
for  giving  priority  to  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals (SDGs) by making them central to the theme of 
the seventy-first session of the General Assembly. I am 
happy that the 17 Goals adopted by the Assembly are 
in line with the development vision of my Government, 
which  has  been  geared  in  recent  years  towards  the 
achievement of these very objectives.
Under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan campaign — the 
Clean India mission — more than 400,000 toilets have 
been constructed in over 200,000 schools. Similarly, in 
terms of gender equality, the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao 
campaign — Educate the Girl Child, Save the Girl Child 
programme — has become a nationwide movement led 
6/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
by  women.  The  Make  in  India  initiative  is  receiving 
international acclaim. Under the Pradhan Mantri Jan-
Dhan  Yojana  initiative,  the  largest  financial  inclusion 
programme the world has ever seen, nearly 250 million 
bank accounts have been opened for the poor. Digital 
India  is  transforming  the  country.  Under  the  Skill 
India  Initiative,  a  number  of  programmes  have  been 
undertaken  to  enable  young  people  to  take  advantage 
of  the  demographic  dividend.  Those  initiatives  have 
added a new dimension to India’s growth story, making 
it the fastest-growing major economy in the world at a 
time of slow global growth.
We are all aware that one sixth of humankind lives 
in  India.  Accordingly,  global  success  in  realizing  the 
SDGs  depends  on  the  success  achieved  in  India.  We 
are  committed  to  the  wholehearted  implementation 
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development as a 
national effort. We have decided to dedicate one day in 
each session of our Parliament to discussions relating 
solely to the SDGs, which will enable us to consistently 
monitor the progress made on them and give us good 
results.  However,  for  the  successful  implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
in  a  globalized  world,  national  efforts  need  to  be 
supplemented by international cooperation.
Climate change is yet another serious challenge we 
are having to confront. There are enough resources on 
this  planet  to  fulfil  everyone’s  needs,  but  not  enough 
to satisfy anyone’s greed, for greed is limitless. In that 
context, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has championed 
a  new  concept,  namely,  climate  justice.  If  we  respect 
nature,  nature  will  respect  and  nurture  us  and  future 
generations. However, if we exploit nature mindlessly 
then  we  must  be  mindful  that  nature  will  unleash  its 
fury upon us. In different parts of the world, we have 
already seen nature drift towards the unnatural — from 
torrential  rains  to  excessive  heat,  from  tsunamis  to 
storms and cloudbursts.
We  must  curb  reckless  consumption  and  adopt 
lifestyles in harmony with nature. Yoga, the storehouse 
of  India’s  ancient  wisdom,  epitomizes  a  sustainable 
lifestyle.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express  our  gratitude  for  the  unprecedented  global 
response  to  the  International  Day  of  Yoga,  which  has 
been celebrated for the past two years.
In  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities 
and  respective  capabilities  has  been  acknowledged 
and  accepted.  That  makes  it  clear  that,  while  our 
responsibility is common, our obligations are different. 
Developed nations must discharge their responsibility 
in the search for the common good through finance and 
technology transfer.
India has launched an ambitious domestic effort to 
transform our energy mix and attain 40 per cent energy 
from  non-fossil  fuel  sources  by  2030.  The  massive 
investments  required  entail  a  predictable  and  stable 
environment, towards which we are actively working. 
Additionally,  our  ground-breaking  initiative  for  an 
International Solar Energy Alliance is intended to make 
efficient solar technology available for all.
I  assure  the  General  Assembly  that  India  will 
continue  to  play  a  leading  role  in  combating  climate 
change.  We  have  carefully  chosen  the  date  to  submit 
our  instrument  of  ratification  of  the  Paris  Agreement 
on  Climate  Change,  which  will  be  2  October,  the 
anniversary  of  the  birth  of  Mahatma  Gandhi,  who 
epitomized  a  lifestyle  with  the  smallest  possible 
carbon footprint.
Let me now turn to a subject of critical importance, 
and  which  deeply  concerns  every  member  of  the 
Assembly.  This  month  we  marked 
the  fifteenth 
anniversary of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attack 
on this city. Tragically, less than 15 days ago, another 
attempt  at  killing  innocents  was  made  in  an  act  of 
terror  on  this  same  city.  We,  who  have  suffered  in 
Uri,  Kashmir,  recently,  understand  the  pain  inflicted 
by  the  same  forces.  The  world  has  been  battling  this 
scourge  for  a  very  long  time.  However,  despite  the 
blood  and  tears  of  innocent  victims,  attacks  this  year 
alone in Kabul, Dhaka, Istanbul, Mogadishu, Brussels, 
Bangkok, Paris, Pathankot and Uri, as well as the daily 
barbaric  tragedies  in  Syria  and  Iraq,  remind  us  that 
these malevolent forces have yet to be defeated.
We must acknowledge that terrorism is undoubtedly 
the greatest of all violations of human rights. We must 
accept  this  fact  as  a  first  principle.  Terrorism  targets 
the  innocent  and  kills  indiscriminately.  Having  gone 
far beyond affecting individuals or nations, it is a crime 
against humanity itself. But it is important to ask: who 
is behind this and who benefits from it? Terrorists do 
not own banks or weapons factories, so let us ask the 
question of who finances these terrorists, who arms them 
and  who  provides  them  sanctuary.  Similar  questions 
were asked by the Vice-President of Afghanistan from 
this rostrum a few days ago (see A/71/PV.11).
16-29823
7/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
History  proves  that  those  who  plant  the  seeds  of 
extremist ideology reap a bitter harvest. The contagion 
of  evil  seen  in  small  terrorist  groups  has  grown  into 
a  hydra-headed  monster  backed  by 
technological 
sophistication  that  threatens  the  peace  and  harmony 
of  our  world.  We  will  not  be  able  to  win  the  fight 
against  terrorism  by  making  specious  distinctions 
between the problems of one group and the problems of 
others — between terrorists who attack some and those 
who attack others. We do not know who will be the next 
victim of Frankenstein’s monster.
If  we  want  to  defeat  terrorism,  therefore,  there  is 
only one way, that is, to unite despite our differences, 
add  steel  to  our  resolve  and  inject  urgency  into  our 
response.  We  need  to  forget  our  prejudices  and  join 
hands  to  draw  up  an  effective  strategy  against  terror. 
That is not an impossible task, provided that we have 
the  will.  We  can  do  it,  and  we  must  do  it;  otherwise, 
future generations will forever hold us to account. And 
if any nation refuses to join the global strategy, then we 
must isolate it. That is my simple demand.
There are nations in our midst that still speak the 
language  of  terrorism.  They  nurture  it,  peddle  it  and 
export it. Sheltering terrorists has become the calling 
card  of  such  nations.  We  must  identify  those  nations 
and hold them to account. The nations in which United 
Nations-designated  terrorists  roam  freely  and  which 
lead  demonstrations  and  deliver 
their  poisonous 
sermons  of  hate  with  impunity  are  as  culpable  as  the 
very terrorists whom they harbour. There should be no 
place for such countries in the community of nations.
On 21 September, the Prime Minister of Pakistan 
used  this  rostrum  to  make  baseless  allegations  about 
human  rights  violations  in  my  country  (see  A/71/
PV.11).  I  can  say  only  that  those  accusing  others  of 
human rights violations would do well to look within 
and  see  what  egregious  abuses  they  are  perpetrating 
in  their  own  countries,  including  in  Baluchistan.  The 
brutality against the Baluch people represents the worst 
form of State oppression.
The Prime Minister of Pakistan also said that India 
had come up with preconditions for talks that he found 
unacceptable. What preconditions was he talking about? 
Did we impose any preconditions before extending an 
invitation  to  him  to  attend  our  Government’s  oath-
taking  ceremony?  Did  we  impose  any  preconditions 
when I went to Islamabad for the Heart of Asia-Istanbul 
Process  and  agreed  to  commence  the  comprehensive 
bilateral  dialogue  with  Pakistan?  Did  we  impose  any 
preconditions  when  Prime  Minister  Modi  travelled 
from Kabul to Lahore? What preconditions? What are 
we talking about?
We took the initiative to resolve issues not on the 
basis of conditions, but on the basis of friendship. That 
is the truth. We have in fact attempted to establish an 
unprecedented paradigm of friendship in the past two 
years. We conveyed Eid greetings to the Prime Minister 
of  Pakistan,  wished  success  to  his  cricket  team  and 
extended  good  wishes  for  his  health  and  well-being. 
Did any of that come with preconditions attached?
And what did we get in return? Pathankot, Bahadur 
Ali and Uri? Are we imposing preconditions or are the 
Pakistanis now going in a different direction? Bahadur 
Ali  is  a  terrorist  in  our  custody  whose  confession  is 
proof  of  Pakistan’s  complicity  in  cross-border  terror. 
But  when  confronted  with  such  evidence,  Pakistan 
continues to deny it. Pakistan persists in the belief that 
such  attacks  will  enable  it  to  acquire  the  territory  it 
covets. My firm advice to Pakistan is to abandon that 
dream.  Let  me  state  unequivocally  that  Jammu  and 
Kashmir  is  an  integral  part  of  India  and  will  always 
remain  so.  That  is  why  Pakistan  should  abandon 
that dream.
As I said at the outset, we will be judged by both 
our  action  and  our  inaction.  What  goals  have  we 
achieved and what objectives remain unfulfilled? The 
first  pending  task  for  the  Assembly  is  the  adoption 
of  the  comprehensive  convention  on  international 
terrorism,  which  was  proposed  by  India  in  1996.  In 
2016,  despite  the  fact  that  two  decades  have  elapsed, 
we have yet to conclude an agreement. As a result, we 
are unable to develop a standard under which terrorists 
shall be prosecuted or extradited. I therefore appeal to 
the General Assembly that it act with fresh resolve and 
urgency to adopt that critical convention.
The  second  pending  task  is  Security  Council 
reform. Just as we need a more contemporary approach 
to  combating  terrorism,  we  also  need  a  less  outdated 
Security  Council,  which  currently  reflects  the  world 
order of a bygone era. The vast majority of nations share 
the  belief  that  the  United  Nations  should  not  remain 
frozen  in  1945,  which  serves  only  the  interests  of  a 
few. Whether it is a question of institutions or issues, 
we must come to terms with present-day realities and 
the challenges we have before us. An expansion in the 
permanent  and  non-permanent  Council  categories  of 
8/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
membership in order to reflect contemporary realities 
is  therefore  an  urgent  necessity.  We  must  move 
forward  substantively  through  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations towards a text-based negotiation.
If both of the long-pending issues that I mentioned 
are addressed during the presidency of Mr. Thomson, 
then  the  success  of  the  seventy-first  session  will 
be assured.
The twenty-first century has begun in the shadow 
of turmoil, but we can turn it into a golden age in the 
history  of  civilization  through  united  and  concerted 
efforts.  But  we  must  remember  that  what  happens 
tomorrow will depend on what we do today.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Vivian Balakrishnan, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Singapore.
Mr.  Balakrishnan  (Singapore):  It  is  a  special 
honour  for  me  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on 
behalf  of  Singapore,  a  tiny  island  city-State  that  is 
sometimes referred to as a tiny red dot.
The  United  Nations  is  essential  for  our  survival 
and prosperity, as it is in particular for all small States. 
We  are  usually  on  the  receiving  end  of  the  decisions 
and  actions  of  large  Powers.  Fortunately,  the  General 
Assembly  affirms  the  principle  that  all  nations,  large 
or  small,  rich  or  poor,  have  an  equal  stake  and  an 
equal  right  to  participate  in  shaping  the  discourse  on 
global issues.
and 
electoral 
The  year  2016  has  been  a  year  of  increased 
uncertainty  and  volatility.  We  have  seen  sluggish 
growth and poor job creation in the major economies, 
which have been accompanied by growing xenophobia 
and  disillusionment  with  mainstream  politics.  We 
have  witnessed  rising  nationalism,  populism  and 
the  political 
protectionism,  which  have  clouded 
discourse 
outcomes 
everywhere. The conflicts in Syria, Yemen and Libya 
continue unabated, with serious repercussions beyond 
the  region,  including  causing  unprecedented  flows 
of  refugees.  Terrorism  remains  a  clear  and  present 
threat  to  international  peace  and  security,  which  has 
been  amplified  by  social  media,  and  has  been  used 
so skilfully by the Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham 
(ISIS) and other terrorist groups to spread radical ideas 
and promote violent extremism.
confounded 
In  fact,  we  know  that  more  than  1,000  men  and 
women,  including  some  Singaporeans,  have  gone  to 
the  Middle  East  to  fight  for  ISIS.  Those  people  have 
been  indoctrinated  with  extremist  ideology,  trained 
with combat skills and killed people — and everyone 
knows  that  it  is  always  easier  to  kill  the  second  time 
around. They will further pose a significant risk as they 
seek to promote violence at home, overthrow legitimate 
Governments  and  establish  a  caliphate  in  South-East 
Asia. Singapore is committed to working with its friends 
and partners to address the threat of violent extremism 
and  terrorism  by  exchanging  intelligence  and  sharing 
our own experience with deradicalization programmes.
While  that  is  taking  place,  we  also  recall  the 
Ebola  virus  epidemic  in  2014  and  the  current  zika 
infections. They are stark reminders that global health 
remains a concern. We all need to work with the World 
Health Organization to keep our countries safe, while 
remaining open, connected and functioning.
In an uncertain world, small States like Singapore 
will have to work that much harder just to stay afloat. 
Small boats on a rough sea are much more likely to be 
tossed and overturned than a large tanker with heavy 
ballast. For our survival and our prosperity, small States 
have to stay open and connected to the world. But, by 
definition,  our  very  openness  makes  us  vulnerable  to 
external shocks and threats. Small States like ours do 
not have the option of retreating inwards or opting out 
of the global system.
It  is  a  reality  that  the  world  will  become  more 
and more interdependent. In such an environment, no 
country can succeed on its own, even if a country is not 
an island State like mine. To achieve global security and 
prosperity, we need to work with one another to seek 
win-win outcomes. I realize that, inevitably, there will 
be  competition  and  rivalry  between  States,  especially 
among the major Powers. But I want to make this point: 
relations between States need not be a zero-sum game. 
All countries benefit when there is peace and stability, 
and  that  is  essential  for  building  partnerships  and 
economic cooperation everywhere.
Three  elements  are  crucial  for 
the  survival 
and  prosperity  of  small  States:  first,  a  rules-based 
multilateral  world  order;  secondly, 
international 
partnership  and  cooperation;  and,  thirdly,  sustainable 
development. Allow me to elaborate.
South-East  Asia,  the  region  where  I  come  from, 
has  also  become  a  fertile  recruiting  ground  for  ISIS. 
On the first point, a rules-based multilateral system 
enables  all  States  to  deal  with  each  other  in  a  fair, 
16-29823
9/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
transparent and predictable manner. The United Nations 
represents an international world order based on rules, 
norms and principles. We emphatically reject the notion 
that might is right. That is why small States are often the 
strongest proponents of the United Nations. For us, the 
United  Nations  represents  a  rules-based  international 
order, and we believe that is a precondition for our very 
existence as independent, sovereign States.
The  second  essential  element  is  international 
partnership  and  cooperation.  Some  of 
the  most 
significant  challenges  of  our  time  are  transnational 
in  nature.  Examples  include  global  economic  growth, 
climate change, epidemics and terrorism. Therein lies 
the importance of the United Nations.
The  recent  successful  conclusion  of  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  last  November  was  a 
good example of how countries around the world could 
come  together  to  solve  a  problem  posed  to  the  global 
commons.  That  the  Paris  Agreement  will  likely  enter 
into force less than seven months after it was opened for 
signature is a confidence-booster for the United Nations 
system.  Singapore  is  proud  to  have  played  its  part  by 
actively participating in negotiations and to have been 
part of the early wave of countries that deposited their 
instruments  of  ratification  at  the  high-level  event  on 
the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change on 21 September this year.
A  collective  voice  for  small  States  speaks  louder, 
and our collective action has been an effective catalyst 
for  change  at  the  United  Nations  and  globally.  I  am 
pleased  to  note  that,  under  the  chairmanships  of 
Grenada,  Nauru  and  now  Maldives,  the  Alliance  of 
Small  Island  States  played  a  catalytic  role  during  the 
climate-change  negotiations.  Similarly,  the  Forum 
of Small States brings together 107 member States to 
exchange ideas and support each other in our common 
concerns. The Global Governance Group, also known 
as  the  3-G,  provides  a  platform  for  approximately  30 
small  and  medium-sized  countries  to  exchange  views 
on global governance and contribute to the discussions 
of  the  Group  of  20  (G-20).  The  3-G  has  helped  to 
channel the views of a broad range of countries to the 
G-20  presidency,  thereby  making  the  G-20  process 
more inclusive.
The  third  important  element  for  the  survival  and 
prosperity of small States is sustainable development. 
Singapore believes that there are two key prerequisites 
for the successful implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development.
The first prerequisite is the rule of law. I made the 
point  earlier  that,  at  the  international  level,  a  rules-
based system is essential for all States, especially small 
States,  in  order  for  us  to  cooperate  and  to  safeguard 
our rights. But a commitment to the rule of law at the 
domestic  level  is  equally  important.  Without  good 
governance,  transparency,  strong  institutions  and  a 
clear  legal  framework,  development  can  neither  be 
sustainable nor benefit ordinary people.
The second prerequisite in that context is international 
partnerships.  The  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs) can be achieved only through collaboration and 
partnership.  Multilateral  processes,  such  as  the  third 
United Nations Conference on Housing and Sustainable 
Urban Development (Habitat III), to be held in Ecuador 
in  October,  are  important  avenues  to  help  advance 
the  SDGs,  especially  SDG  11.  The  draft  new  urban 
agenda to be adopted by the Habitat III Conference will 
highlight the link between urbanization and sustainable 
development  and  provide  a  framework  for  cities  and 
Governments around the world to collaborate and find 
sustainable solutions.
Another important issue that requires cooperation 
involves  the  sustainable  management  of  our  forests, 
the  prevention  of  land  degradation  and  the  loss  of 
biodiversity form. This issue is addressed by SDG 15 
in the 2030 Agenda. In South-East Asia, transboundary 
haze from forest and peatland fires started by human 
beings have impaired the health of millions of people, 
compromised the safety of aircraft navigation, damaged 
our regional economies and accelerated climate change. 
The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) 
adopted  a  road  map  to  achieve  what  we  hope  will  be 
a  haze-free  ASEAN  by  2020.  We  need  to  strengthen 
partnerships  among  Governments,  the  private  sector, 
civil-society  organizations  and  other 
important 
stakeholders with a view to addressing the root of the 
problem.  That  is  a  long-term  challenge  that  requires 
sustained attention and continued collaboration among 
countries in our region and beyond.
Developing  countries  need  international  support 
and  assistance  in  implementing  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development. Singapore is fully committed 
to  helping  other  developing  countries  build  capacity 
and enhance human capital, and I declare this on behalf 
10/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
of a country that has only human resources and human 
capital to offer.
Since 1992, the Singapore Cooperation Programme 
has  provided  training  to  more  than  100,000  officials 
from  other  developing  countries.  Last  year,  in  a 
statement made at the United Nations Summit for the 
adoption  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda,  we 
launched  from  this  rostrum  (see  A/70/PV.10)  a  new 
sustainable development programme through which we 
are working with such United Nations agencies as the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme,  UN-Water 
and UN-Habitat to support fellow developing countries 
in  implementing  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  Singapore  has  also  tailored  training 
programmes for small island developing States in areas 
including sustainable development, climate change and 
public governance.
Small States make up more than half of the States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations.  To  quote  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon’s  statement  at  the  twentieth 
anniversary of the Forum of Small States, in 2012,
“Being small does not mean the absence of big 
ideas”.
The  Secretary-General  has  been  a  strong 
supporter  of  small  States,  and  we  thank  him  for 
his leadership and support. I think we should also 
recognize the important contributions he has made 
to  sustainable  development  and  climate  change 
during his two terms as Secretary-General.
In conclusion, let me say that small States, despite 
our  size,  have  made  significant  contributions  to  the 
international  community.  We  have  helped  to  build 
consensus  and  find  solutions  to  key  global  issues, 
including climate change. Small States can play an even 
greater  role,  provided  we  work  together.  Ultimately, 
small  States  need  the  United  Nations  to  create  the 
framework for building partnerships, promoting mutual 
development and pursuing peace and security within a 
rules-based multilateral system.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Luis  Filipe  Lopes  Tavares,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs, Communities and Defence of the Republic of 
Cabo Verde.
Mr.  Lopes  Tavares  (Cabo  Verde)  (spoke 
in 
Portuguese; English text provided by the delegation): It 
is with great pleasure that we participate in this session 
of the General Assembly under the wise presidency of 
Mr. Peter Thomson, at a time when we are facing great 
challenges  and  witnessing  humankind’s  legitimate 
desires and aspirations for a world of greater justice and 
solidarity. We are particularly proud and pleased to see 
a  representative  from  a  small  island  developing  State 
conducting  the  work  of  the  Assembly.  We  wish  him 
every success during his term in office and assure him 
of the full cooperation and readiness of the delegation 
of Cabo Verde.
We  also  express  our  gratitude  to  his  predecessor, 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  for  his  excellent  work  and 
congratulate him on his tireless efforts and dedication, 
as  well  as  the  transparent  and  inclusive  manner  in 
which he conducted the process of hearing candidates 
for  the  position  of  Secretary-General.  We  are  certain 
that, under his guidance, the steps taken in the process 
of  reform  that  is  under  way  in  the  Organization  were 
important ones.
On  behalf  of  the  Government  of  Cabo  Verde,  we 
would  also  like  to  applaud  and  thank  His  Excellency 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  as  we  approach  the 
end of his two terms in office. We are grateful for his 
work and efforts aimed at building international peace 
and  security,  seeking  relationships  based  on  greater 
solidarity, brotherhood and fairness, combating poverty 
and  pursuing  balanced  and  sustainable  development 
for all. As a small island developing State, Cabo Verde 
greatly appreciated his dedication to building a better 
world,  in  particular  his  contribution  in  successfully 
organizing  and  holding 
International 
Conference  on  Small  Island  Developing  States,  held 
in  Samoa,  and  for  bringing  about  the  adoption  of  the 
2030 Agenda for Sutainable Development and the Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change. With regard to the Paris 
Agreement, Cabo Verde is pleased with the number of 
States that have ratified it since April.
third 
the 
As a small island State, Cabo Verde bases its foreign 
policy  on  the  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations and is certain that multilateralism 
is  the  most  appropriate  way  to  approach  issues  on 
the  international  agenda.  Cabo  Verde  advocates  for, 
and  gives  priority  to,  the  consensus  to  keep  pursuing 
international  peace  and  security,  promoting  and 
fostering dialogue in conflict resolution and defending 
international  law  as  indispensable  elements  for  the 
advancement of humankind.
We  note  with  concern 
that  armed  conflicts 
are  proliferating  in  general,  but  more  particularly 
16-29823
11/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
in  Africa  and  the  Middle  East.  We  have  seen  the 
resurgence of instability in several areas of the world, 
the  unprecedented  humanitarian  crisis  leading  to  the 
high number of refugees, irregular migrations, massive 
violations of human rights, poverty and lack of social 
cohesion, the widening of the inequality between rich 
and  poorer  nations,  increasing  acts  of  terrorism  and 
atrocities  and  the  growth  of  transnational  crime,  in 
particular  drug  trafficking.  All  of  those  phenomena, 
which  we  have  been  closely  observing  and  cannot 
ignore, call for and compel us to act collectively.
The  conflicts  and  sources  of  tension  that  persist 
on the African continent continue to be a concern for 
us,  particularly  the  situations  in  Libya,  South  Sudan, 
Somalia  and  Mali.  Cabo  Verde  supports  the  African 
Union  in  the  search  for  solutions  to  those  problems 
affecting the peace and security of our sister nations. 
Also  with  respect  to  our  continent,  we  welcome 
Morocco’s recent decision to rejoin the African Union. 
We hope that the reasons that compelled its withdrawal 
will  be  resolved  in  the  framework  of  strengthened 
regional cooperation among the members of the Arab 
Maghreb  Union,  thereby  contributing  to  stability  and 
security in the Sahel region.
With  respect  to  the  Middle  East,  Cabo  Verde 
understands the urgency of finding solutions to existing 
conflicts  and  encourages  the  pursuit  of  negotiations 
as the sole means to that end. We wish to specifically 
refer  to  the  need  to  resume  negotiations  leading  to  a 
lasting peace that would allow both States — Israel and 
Palestine — to live side by side in peace and security. 
In addition, we encourage the continuation of efforts to 
seek a negotiated solution in Syria that would put an end 
to the conflict and the suffering of the Syrian people.
Terrorism is a phenomenon that affects all countries 
and all regions of the planet either directly or indirectly, 
and  no  one  can  remain  indifferent  to  the  immense 
suffering and violence it brings to entire populations. 
As a global problem, it is one of the most serious threats 
to  international  peace  and  security,  and  it  therefore 
requires  a  global  response.  No  country  —  large  or 
small, rich or poor — is in a position to fight it alone 
or effectively.
and  combating  this  threat.  Accordingly,  Cabo  Verde 
welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  Plan  of  Action  to 
Prevent  Violent  Extremism,  launched  in  January,  as 
well  as  the  results  of  the  fifth  review  of  the  United 
Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy.
Taking into account the iniquities and inequalities 
that exist everywhere in some form, it is the understanding 
of  my  Government  that  such  a  scenario  compels  us 
to  join  forces  in  our  efforts  for  the  promotion  and 
protection of human rights. The Universal Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  and  the  Optional  Protocols  thereto 
constitute  the  basis  for  building  more  peaceful,  just 
and  inclusive  societies,  with  fundamental  rights  and 
freedoms at the core of their development. In addition, 
we consider the role of institutions advocating in favour 
of human rights and civil society to be indispensable in 
promoting the rights inherent to human beings.
As  was  highlighted  in  the  high-level  thematic 
debate  on  human  rights  last  July,  under  the  theme 
“Human rights at the centre of the global agenda”, the 
challenges  associated  with  climate  change,  terrorism, 
violent  extremism,  conflicts  and  humanitarian  crises 
require not only coordinated actions on all levels, but 
also the continuous fostering of good governance and 
the rule of law.
Massive  violations  of  those  rights  and  the  denial 
of  civil,  political,  social  and  cultural  rights  hinder 
the  full  achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, particularly the protection of and the enjoyment 
of  rights  by  the  most  vulnerable  populations.  We  are 
also convinced that the right to development constitutes 
a basic principle for social cohesion and the reduction 
of  social  inequalities  within  and  among  nations. 
As  we  celebrate  the  thirty-first  anniversary  of  the 
Vienna  Declaration  on  the  Right  to  Development,  it 
is  important  that  the  principles  established  therein  be 
observed and fulfilled. With respect to protecting the 
most  vulnerable,  Cabo  Verde  welcomes  the  Political 
Declaration adopted at the high-level meeting on HIV/
AIDS (resolution 70/266) in June, which advocates for 
access to treatment, particularly for the most vulnerable, 
based  on  the  principle  of  non-discrimination  and 
non-stigmatization.
Cabo  Verde  condemns,  without  reservations,  acts 
of terrorism in any form or manifestation. We reaffirm 
our willingness and readiness to cooperate with other 
States,  as  well  as  with  the  United  Nations  system,  to 
implement  recommendations  aimed  at  preventing 
Cabo  Verde  recognizes  and  is  concerned  with 
the  humanitarian  crisis  resulting  from 
large 
number  of  refugees  and  migrants  and  welcomes  the 
organization and adoption of the New York Declaration 
for  Refugees  and  Migrants  (resolution  71/1,  annex) 
the 
12/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
during the high-level meeting on migrants and refugees 
on  19  September.  We  believe  that  a  significant  part 
of  the  current  difficulties  may  be  overcome  through 
the  effective  implementation  of  the  planned  global 
compacts on responsibility-sharing for refugees and on 
safe, regular and orderly migration, which are expected 
to  be  adopted  next  year.  Furthermore,  we  call  for  the 
correct implementation of the international conventions 
related to that issue and stress the need to fight against 
the root causes of such phenomena.
The  theme  chosen  for  this  General  Assembly 
session,  “The  Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a 
universal push to transform our world”, could not have 
been  more  appropriate.  The  choice  was  judicious  and 
pertinent. It was judicious because a significant portion 
of  the  work  and  attention  of  the  United  Nations  upto 
2030  will  indeed  focus  on  the  achievement  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  and  it  was  pertinent 
because, one year after the historic adoption of the 2030 
Agenda, we have the opportunity to express our points 
of view on how we intend to achieve the Goals that we 
established  and  overcome  the  challenges  that  persist 
and  that  could  jeopardize  the  global  commitment  to 
leave no one behind.
For  us,  the  fulfilment  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development implies enhancing the means 
of  implementation,  particularly  financing,  technology 
transfer, 
in 
international  trade.  Furthermore,  we  will  need  to 
develop  the  capacity  to  implement  and  follow  up  on 
a system to monitor national and regional policies, of 
which the United Nations system must be aware.
and  participation 
capacity-building 
The devastating consequences of natural disasters 
resulting from climate change, which have a significant 
impact  on  the  poorest  and  most  vulnerable  countries, 
remind  us  of  the  urgency  of  implementing  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  and  the  importance 
of  implementing  the  recommendations  of  the  Sendai 
Framework  for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction  2015-2030. 
Developing  a 
low-carbon  economy  and  creating 
resiliency  and  capacity  to  adapt  are  no  longer  just 
an  option  for  many.  They  have  become  essential 
requirements 
sustainable  economy, 
particularly in island and archipelago countries, whose 
survival is being threatened by climate change.
to  build  a 
Despite 
the 
the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda, its ambitious nature 
offers  a  unique  opportunity  to  promote  international 
challenges 
inherent 
in 
solidarity and cooperation at an unprecedented level in 
the  history  of  humankind.  It  is  therefore  against  that 
backdrop that the United Nations system will be called 
upon to work as a unified front, avoiding duplication, 
increasing the monitoring and application of capacity at 
the national and regional levels, identifying emerging 
challenges, offering solutions that are not one-size-fits-
all,  and  respecting  the  idiosyncrasies  and  specific 
contexts of each country.
I cannot conclude without noting that Cabo Verde, 
as a small island State, is striving for the development 
of  a  sustainable  and  dynamic  economy  with  a  robust 
private sector and strengthened regulatory institutions. 
In  order  to  build  a  resilient  economy  that  is  in  line 
with  the  2030  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  the 
Government that I am honoured to be a part of plans to 
develop strategic partnerships so as to reduce risks and 
minimize weaknesses. However, the challenge facing a 
small and vulnerable country such as Cabo Verde goes 
beyond our national capacity to mobilize technical and 
financial resources and calls for more coordinated and 
predictable support from the international community 
in general and the United Nations system in particular.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Frederick  Mitchell,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
and Immigration of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas.
Mr.  Mitchell  (Bahamas):  Next  year  at  this  time, 
general elections will have been held in the Bahamas. 
That means that this is the last time that I will address 
the  General  Assembly  in  the  present  term.  For  me,  it 
has been a special privilege — one that I have cherished 
since I first stepped up to this rostrum back in 2002. 
I  wanted  to  do  something  special  this  year,  which  is 
why I have the honour of having with me some of my 
constituents from the Bahamas, and in particular some 
of the religious and civic leaders of the community of 
Fox Hill, which I represent: Reverend J. Carl Rahming 
and  Mrs.  Rahming,  Bishop  Carrington  Pinder  and 
Mrs. Pinder, Reverend Hartman Nixon and Mrs. Nixon, 
Reverend Daniel Hall and Mrs. Hall, Reverend Warren 
Anderson  and  Mrs.  Anderson  and  Reverend  Sherelle 
Saunders. I also recognize the opposition’s spokesman 
on  foreign  affairs, 
the  Shadow  Minister  Hubert 
Chipman MP and his wife.
the  policy  of 
the 
Bahamas that there should be, insofar as is possible, a 
multi-partisan consensus on foreign affairs so that there 
is a seamless transfer of ideas and policies among the 
the  Government  of 
is 
It 
16-29823
13/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
parties. Furthermore, the civic leaders are here because 
I  wanted  to  show  them  that,  contrary  to  a  prevailing 
narrative, foreign affairs is not some esoteric academic 
discipline,  but  is  a  real-life  exercise  connected  to  the 
real lives of the people in my constituency and to all the 
ordinary people around the world. I am glad that they 
are here.
Jack  Lew,  the  Treasury  Secretary  of  the  United 
States, talked in a recent television interview about the 
value  of  starting  a  bank  account,  the  value  of  saving 
and  the  importance  of  the  involvement  of  ordinary 
people in the economy of his country. It was a telling 
message.  But  throughout  the  Caribbean  —  where  the 
tradition has been to provide a child at birth with a bank 
account  as  a  gift  at  the  christening  —  it  has  become 
very  difficult  for  a  child,  not  to  mention  an  adult,  to 
open a bank account, so much so that many argue that 
there is a disincentive to joining the financial system.
Indeed, not only is that a problem in the Caribbean, 
but  a  British  Minister  told  me  about  how  one  of  the 
leading  politicians  in  his  country  could  not  open  an 
account  for  his  12-year-old  daughter  because  she  is 
what  is  called  a  politically  exposed  person.  That  is 
obviously wrong. The problem is that the overregulation 
imposed on countries by the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development  has  led  to  negative 
unintended consequences. Suddenly, being a politician 
or  in  a  politician’s  family  is  to  run  the  risk  of  being 
refused  normal  banking  services  around  the  world 
because the risks are too high. That is wrong.
(CARICOM) 
I  started  my  remarks  with  that  concern  in  order 
to  bring  home  starkly  what  all  countries  from  the 
Caribbean  Community 
region  have 
described  as  the  dangers  of  de-risking.  What  I  have 
described  is  a  part  of  that  whole  cloth.  Banks  in  the 
developed world, principally in the United States, are 
in  some  cases  refusing  to  cash  the  checks  of  some 
Caribbean banks because they say the risk of policing 
the CARICOM banks on the issue of compliance with 
the new rules is too high and the business that banks 
get from such transactions is too low. So, such services 
have been stripped away across the Caribbean.
This is the same Bahamas and Caribbean that tens 
of millions of people from the United States and Europe 
visit every year. The visitors expect that all the modern 
conveniences and services will be available when they 
land to dip their toes in the water and sun themselves 
on the beach. The Caribbean islands that are described 
in their tourist brochures as paradises are being treated 
by the developed country banks as if they are Sodom 
and Gomorrah thanks to the new financial rules. The 
financial regulators use pejorative expressions like “tax 
havens” and impose unfair rules and sanctions on those 
societies,  which  may  prevent  valuable  remittances 
being sent to people back home or prevent the payment 
of the school fees of Bahamian and CARICOM students 
abroad.  While  such  destruction  is  being  wrought  on 
those  same  small  countries,  they  are  being  asked  and 
lobbied to vote for one cause or another in the interest of 
the developed countries. But what many of our leaders 
and peoples are asking is, “Where is the quid pro quo 
in all of this?”
No CARICOM country, including the Bahamas, is 
shielding  anyone  involved  in  unlawful  behaviour.  All 
applicable agreements are adhered to and are complied 
with  in  connection  with  money-laundering  and  the 
unlawful evasion of taxes. The attacks on the Bahamas 
and  the  CARICOM  region  are  inaccurate  and  unjust. 
The  recent  attacks  in  the  press  about  the  Bahamas 
financial services sector are simply reprehensible and 
represent  violations  of  international  norms.  We  reject 
them. Normally, one does not seek to make a moral case 
in this forum. But there is a dubious moral equivalence 
that is being argued by the developed countries. They 
argue  that,  even  though  they  have  laws  regarding  the 
protection of privacy and private property from illegal 
seizure  by  the  State,  even  though  our  countries  are 
independent and free to do as they wish, the fact that 
our  countries  serve  as  bankers  for  those  seeking  to 
take advantage of tax competition is somehow immoral 
because  it  robs  the  developed  world  of  legitimate 
revenue. But that is simply not true.
The  evidence  is  that  the  wealth  accumulated  in 
offshore sectors goes back to the developed countries 
and  the  offshore  sectors  are  therefore  of  benefit  to 
the  developed  world.  We  can  present  another  moral 
argument.  If  the  societies  of  the  Caribbean  collapse 
because of overregulation by other countries, then the 
result of the destruction of millions of families would 
be the greater moral wrong. If one then argues that it 
is  immoral  to  evade  one’s  responsibility  to  pay  taxes 
at  home  —  we  agree  —  we  argue  that  you  have  a 
moral responsibility to understand that overregulating, 
changing  the  goalposts,  not  creating  a  level  playing 
field in the financial services sector and de-risking can 
bring  about  an  immoral  result.  That  problem  must  be 
14/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
solved  by  those  who  imposed  the  regulations.  It  is  a 
moral imperative.
The Bahamas has been pleased to join the United 
States  of  America  and  others  in  the  Safe  Ocean 
Network,  a  global  initiative  aimed  at  all  aspects  of 
the  fight  against  illegal  fishing,  including  detection, 
enforcement  and  prosecution.  On  last  Wednesday, 
I  had  the  privilege  of  depositing  our  instruments  of 
accession  to  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization 
of  the  United  Nations  Agreement  on  Port  State 
Measures  to  Prevent,  Deter  and  Eliminate  Illegal, 
Unreported  and  Unregulated  Fishing.  The  desire  for 
the  safe  governance  of  the  oceans  has  also  informed 
the decision of the Bahamas to seek another term on the 
Council  of  the  International  Maritime  Organization, 
where  we  have  established  a  reputation  for  upholding 
the highest standards of maritime safety, security and 
environmental  protection.  I  ask  for  the  support  of 
Member  States  for  the  re-election  of  the  Bahamas  to 
that Council.
We  need  a  broadening  and  modernization  of 
the  development-financing  indicators  used  to  assess 
development  level  and  development  needs.  We  have 
stated,  and  continue  to  argue,  that  gross  domestic 
product per capita should not be the primary determinant 
that  determines  whether  a  country  qualifies  for 
international  economic  assistance  or  concessional 
access to development financing.
As  a  demonstration  of  the  importance  that  the 
Bahamas  attaches  to  the  advancement  of  women, 
Ms.  Marion  Bethel  was  nominated  for  a  seat  on  the 
Committee  on  the  Elimination  of  Discrimination 
Against Women (CEDAW) and was elected in May. We 
believe  that  Ms.  Bethel  will  contribute  to  CEDAW’s 
efforts to advance women’s empowerment and gender 
equality. We expect that her experiences on that body 
will  increase  knowledge  in  the  Bahamas  relative  the 
advancement of women.
A more vexing problem is how to ensure that young 
males in our society do not fall behind. In all areas of 
academics, young males struggle to survive and keep 
up  and  prepare  for  participation  in  our  societies.  The 
Government  has  turned  its  attention  now  to  remedial 
measures to ensure that they do not fall further behind. 
I am proud to say that there are two young males from 
the Abaco Islands who have joined us as the winners of a 
student contest that enabled them to win an opportunity 
to see this event. They are joined by a young female. 
We are proud to see them here. There is a larger fight 
for the integration of all young men and women into the 
formal economy. Young people are the future, and we 
have to ensure that they understand and see that those 
processes are included in the general economy.
I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  the  Bahamas  is 
seeking election for membership in the Human Rights 
Council for the term 2019 to 2021. I ask for the support 
of all Member States for the Bahamas to be elected to 
that Council.
Each  day,  our  country  of  400,000  people  faces 
incursions  from  Haiti  and  Cuba  by  people  seeking  a 
better way of life. Those incursions are unsustainable 
and  expensive  to  police  and  prevent.  That  is  why  we 
are working with Cuba and Haiti on that sensitive and 
vexing issue, as well as with the United States, which 
is  the  destination  of  choice.  That  is  also  all  the  more 
reason why attention must be paid to closer and more 
normal relations between the United States and Cuba. 
We  will  also  support  the  continued  call  for  an  end  to 
the economic embargo on Cuba when the vote comes 
before the United Nations shortly. Our country is really 
pleased that elections will be held in Haiti next month. 
The  Bahamas  has  pledged  to  provide  observers  to 
those elections.
We wish to thank the outgoing Secretary-General, 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his leadership, vision and tireless 
efforts. We thank him for his service and wish him well 
in the future.
We  are  in  the  midst  of  the  United  Nations 
International  Decade  for  People  of  African  Descent. 
The  CARICOM  region  and  the  Bahamas  are  largely 
an  African  diaspora.  During  the  decade,  we  have 
seen  a  man  of  African  descent  become  the  head  of 
the most powerful country in the world. Thousands of 
Bahamians and people across the Caribbean took pride 
in  that  example  of  success.  We  wish  him  well  as  he 
leaves office.
There was a picture of a little black boy in the Oval 
Office of the United States. In the picture, the President 
is bending down and allowing that boy to touch his hair. 
The little boy, it seemed, wanted to be sure that someone 
like him with hair like his was actually the President 
of  the  United  States.  That  is  the  background  against 
which people of African descent encounter negativity 
all  around  the  world.  Thousands  of  little  black  boys 
and girls in the Bahamas have taken the success of the 
President of the United States as an affirmation of hope.
16-29823
15/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
The  wave  of  shootings  by  police  officers  in  the 
United States must not be allowed to damage that image 
of that country. We think that it is imperative for our 
closest  neighbour,  the  United  States,  to  understand 
that in the International Decade for People of African 
Descent it must do the right thing.
liberal  democracies.  They  feature 
The  President  of  the  United  States  affirmed  that 
he  believes  in  a  liberal  democracy.  We  support  that 
position.  All  of  the  CARICOM  countries,  including 
the Bahamas, are shining examples, without exception, 
of 
ideological 
pluralism,  capitalist  economies,  multiparty  States, 
regular  elections,  independent  judiciaries  with  low 
levels  of  institutional  corruption  and  regular  public 
consultations  on  policies.  This  world  body,  then,  has 
a stake in ensuring that the societies of the CARICOM 
region survive. Michael Manley, the late national hero 
of  Jamaica,  made  that  point  in  this  very  forum  many 
decades ago.
Three successive Popes — John Paul II, Benedict 
and  Francis  —  have  all  decreed  that  capitalism  must 
operate  with  a  moral  conscience.  Our  countries  all 
operate  within  that  milieu.  The  Christian  values  of 
tolerance and respect for the sanctity of the individual 
and the rule of law remain firm. The millions of tourists 
who visit the region can attest to that fact.
I end where I began, on de-risking and the issues 
of  climate  change.  With  so  many  positive  attributes, 
why does it appear that so much is being done to ignore 
and undermine the success of our societies, which are 
shining examples of what the world says that it desires? 
It  is  morally  perplexing  and  legally  indefensible.  We 
are small, and we have no armies to deploy to impose 
a  result.  We  cannot  force  results.  To  paraphrase  an 
American judge, we have only our voice and with that 
voice we say today: the moral cry for help is the moral 
demand  for  rescue.  The  United  Nations  is  where  we 
have a level playing field. It is the appropriate forum to 
make our case. That is so whether the issue is banking, 
financial 
sustainable 
development, financing for development, migration or 
simply survival.
services, 
climate 
change, 
Scripture tells us: “Blessed are the poor in spirit, 
for  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven  is  theirs”.  It  also  says, 
“Whatever  you  did  for  the  least  of  these,  you  did  for 
me.”  Therefore,  as  a  representative  of  “the  least  of 
these”, we use our moral voice today to say that now, 
more than ever, we need the United Nations.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  upon  His 
Excellency Mr. Osman Mohammed Saleh, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the State of Eritrea.
Mr. Saleh (Eritrea): This year, the people of Eritrea 
have been celebrating the silver jubilee of their country’s 
independence in 1991. During the difficult years of the 
war  for  independence,  very  few  people  believed  that 
Eritreans  and  their  leadership  were  capable  of  that 
historic achievement, as the odds were overwhelmingly 
stacked against them.
Unlike  in  other  liberation  struggles,  it  was  both 
super-Powers  —  the  United  States  and  the  Soviet 
Union, and not just one or the other — that sought to 
crush  by  armed  force  Eritrea’s  aspirations  for  self-
determination.  Nevertheless,  the  Eritrean  people  and 
their  liberation  movement  —  the  Eritrean  People’s 
Liberation  Front,  the  predecessor  of  today’s  People’s 
Front  for  Democracy  and  Justice  —  believed  in  the 
justness of their cause and in their own determination 
and capability to win the war fair and square and prevail 
in the unequal battle.
The  post-independence  struggle  to  build  a  nation 
has  also  been  complex  and  difficult.  We  have  been 
compelled  to  commit  precious  human  and  economic 
resources to defend ourselves against wars of aggression 
and subversion. We have suffered the occupation of our 
sovereign territory in violation of international law and 
a binding international arbitration ruling. We have been 
subjected  to  incessant  hostility,  sanctions,  economic, 
financial  and  diplomatic  pressures,  as  well  as  armed 
attacks and psychological warfare.
that  actively  encouraged 
Our  people,  particularly  our  youth,  were  targeted 
through  policies 
their 
migration, leading to much suffering and loss of life at 
the hands of human traffickers. The inevitable outcome 
of those policies was then presented as evidence against 
Eritrea. No less an authority than President Obama of 
the United States stated publicly that he had “renewed 
sanctions  on  some  of  the  worst  abusers,  including... 
Eritrea”. And he added, “We are partnering with groups 
that help women and children escape from the grip of 
their abusers”. The objective was regime change, as a 
prelude to bringing Eritrea to its knees.
In  the  face  of  that  concerted  onslaught,  few  gave 
Eritrea  a  fighting  chance.  We  were  routinely  written 
off,  and  our  imminent  collapse  was  predicted  with 
regularity.  However,  once  again,  resilient  Eritrea  and 
Eritreans  at  home  and  abroad  were  able  to  forge  the 
16/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
capability  to  resist  the  onslaught  on  their  nation  and 
protect their hard-won freedom through their patriotism, 
cohesion,  sheer  determination  and  sacrifices.  After  a 
difficult decade and a half, Eritrea is now on the rise.
The  majority  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals have been achieved. The economy is rebounding. 
Infrastructure is being built. Favourable conditions are 
being created to provide youth with ample opportunities 
for  quality  education,  vocational  skills,  decent  living 
conditions  and  active  political  participation.  The 
country’s  regional  and  international  engagement  is 
growing.  The  counter-productive  policy  of  isolating 
Eritrea  is  slowly  but  surely  failing.  The  pressures, 
coercion and hostility that Eritrea has faced are by no 
means  exceptional  or  distinctive.  In  our  region,  the 
Horn of Africa, they are but one element of a misguided 
policy pursued for over a quarter of a century that has 
fuelled violence, conflict, instability and fragmentation, 
as well as extremism and terrorism.
Throughout the world there are many nations that 
cherish dignity and independent decision-making, that 
uphold  the  sovereign  equality  of  nations,  that  seek 
to  chart  political  and  economic  paths  suited  to  their 
conditions, and that seek to benefit from their human 
and  natural  resources.  They  have  faced  the  wrath 
of  those  who  wish  to  cling  to  their  domination  and 
privileges,  and  resort  to  all  manner  of  coercion  and 
subversion, including sanctions, blockades and armed 
interventions.  Unsustainable  policies  of  greed  and 
pillage and the reckless resort to unilateral pressure and 
force  in  order  to  secure  unilateral  advantage,  instead 
of  seeking  common  ground  and  mutual  interests, 
are  leading  the  world  down  an  extremely  dangerous 
path.  The  very  survival  of  the  planet  and  humankind 
is  in  grave  danger  owing  to  unsustainable  systems 
of  production  and  consumption  and  the  attendant 
large-scale wastage. In that context, Eritrea wishes to 
point out that the pending decision by the United States 
to  adopt  legislation  that  nullifies  national  sovereign 
immunity  constitutes  a  violation  of  international  law 
and  a  dangerous  precedent  with  grave  implications. 
Although  the  challenges  and  dangers  we  face  are 
grave  and  stark,  our  world  is  still  full  of  possibilities 
and opportunities.
people are making their voices heard and their actions 
felt  by  mobilizing,  organizing  and  fighting  against 
domination  by  a  privileged  few.  They  are  fighting 
for a more equal and just world. Calls for the respect 
of  international  law  and  norms  and  for  the  overhaul 
and  revitalization  of  the  United  Nations  and  global 
financial  institutions  —  with  a  view  of  making  them 
more representative and democratic — are widespread, 
insistent  and  often  backed  by  concrete  initiatives  and 
concerted actions.
In  our  region,  the  Horn  of  Africa,  the  past  two 
decades  have  generally  been  a  period  of  missed 
opportunities, zero-sum games and repeated conflicts 
and setbacks. Even today, the situation remains fraught 
with risk and danger. Yet, recent developments indicate 
the  possibility  of  a  new  beginning  and  a  relaunching 
of 
the  1990s  vision  of  a  peaceful,  progressive, 
economically dynamic and cooperative Horn of Africa.
Eritrea  has  often  spoken  of  the  hostilities  and 
injustices  that  it  has  suffered,  the  difficulties  it  has 
faced  and  the  valiant  struggles  of  its  people.  That  is 
an  experience  that  it  shares  with  many  other  peoples 
and  nations.  That  experience  informs  our  country’s 
views and policies. Yet, Eritrea does not dwell on the 
past. Rather, it prefers to look to the future. It is keen 
on  building  on  its  encouraging  achievements,  so  as 
to transform its economy and society and achieve the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  by  relying  mainly  on 
the  energy,  skills  and  initiative  of  its  people  and  the 
judicious use of its natural resources. 
It is also determined to work actively, constructively 
and  in  collaboration  with  its  neighbours  for  peace, 
stability and prosperity in the Horn of Africa and Red 
Sea  regions.  It  seeks  to  foster  relations  of  solidarity 
and  mutual  support  with  all  nations,  peoples  and 
organizations  that  fight  for  a  world  free  from  the 
scourges  of  war  and  poverty  and  for  the  respect  of 
human  dignity.  To  conclude,  Eritrea  is  resolved  to 
engage with all nations in modesty and self-confidence.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Wilfred  Elrington,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
and Foreign Trade of Belize.
The  global  balance  of  power  and  wealth  is 
changing. It features new sources of growth, dynamism 
and innovation — not only in the celebrated emerging 
economies,  but  also  in  many  other  countries.  In  both 
industrialized  and  developing  nations,  ordinary 
Mr. Elrington (Belize): Allow me at the outset to 
congratulate the President of the General Assembly on 
his  election  to  preside  over  the  seventy-first  session 
of  the  Assembly.  I  wish  to  assure  him  of  Belize’s 
fullest support.
16-29823
17/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
Thirty-five  years  ago,  Belize  became  a  State 
Member of the United Nations. Membership confirmed 
our independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, 
and  our  place  among  equals  in  the  community  of 
nations.  Regrettably,  however,  membership  has  not 
been  able  to  resolve  the  territorial  claim  laid  on  our 
country some 80 years ago by Guatemala.
Our track record since our independence confirms 
that  Belize  holds  sacrosanct  the  dignity  of  human 
beings,  the  principles  of  justice,  equality,  inclusivity 
and the rule of law. Belizeans are inherently altruistic 
and  compassionate.  In  the  nascent  years  of  our 
independence,  when  civil  war  ravaged  our  Central 
American  region,  Belize  was  the  beacon  of  hope 
and  sanctuary  of  choice  for  thousands  of  refugees, 
including Guatemalans, desperately seeking to escape 
the  scourges  of  war,  poverty  and  oppression.  Belize 
welcomed  thousands  of  refugees,  amounting  to  well 
in excess of 30 per cent of our population at the time. 
Indeed,  even  to  this  day,  the  flow  of  migrants  into 
our  country  continues  unabated.  Belize  is  a  nation  of 
migrants living in unity, peace and harmony.
Our diversity, national identity and pride have long 
been a source of strength for our people. We have never 
cowered in the face of the repeated threats to our security 
by our neighbour, Guatemala. We remain steadfast in 
our resolve to protect and preserve our sovereignty and 
territorial  integrity.  Though  many  perils  lurk  along 
our forested borders and in our maritime and riverine 
territories, we have been protecting and patrolling our 
borders with determination, so as to ensure the safety 
and  security  of  our  beloved  homeland.  At  the  same 
time,  our  untiring  diplomats  have  striven  mightily  to 
resolve  the  long-standing  territorial  dispute,  which  is 
our paramount foreign-policy concern, by using all the 
diplomatic channels and means at their disposal.
though  not  unpredictably, 
there 
have  been  hostile  incidents  between  the  civilian  and 
military  personnel  of  both  Belize  and  Guatemala  on 
our southern border on the Sarstoon River. Guatemalan 
naval personnel have repeatedly impeded the peaceful 
ingress and egress of civilian and military Belizeans on 
the  river,  wrongfully  claiming  that  the  river  is  theirs. 
However,  as  the  northern  side  of  the  river  is  clearly 
Belizean  territory,  the  unimpeded  use  and  enjoyment 
of that side of the river is the right of every Belizean 
citizen.  Belize  has  therefore  promptly  and  properly 
protested  each  attempt  to  impede  our  citizens  from 
using  the  river.  Additionally,  we  have  engaged  our 
Regrettably, 
Guatemalan  counterparts  in  dialogue  under  the  good 
offices of the Secretary General of the Organization of 
American States with a view of putting a speedy end to 
that potentially perilous practice.
At the same time, the situation along our western 
border has also been vexing. Continuous illegal entry 
by  armed  trespassers  from  Guatemala  have  persisted 
despite  the  valiant  efforts  of  our  border  patrol  to 
deter  them.  The  trespassers  engage  with  impunity, 
day  and  night,  in  gold  panning,  hunting  for  wild 
game  and  birds,  pillaging  Mayan  temples,  logging 
illegally  and  cultivating  crops,  including  marijuana, 
for  commercial  purpose.  In  the  process,  our  priceless 
forest  is  being  decimated,  our  potable  and  sea  waters 
are being compromised, and our coral reefs are being 
choked to death by sediments that run off the denuded 
mountainsides after each torrential downpour. 
Fully  cognizant  of  the  devastating  environmental 
impact that such practices are having in neighbouring 
countries  and  further  afield,  Belize  cannot  afford  to 
let the same thing happen to us. From time to time, in 
the course of attempting to apprehend the trespassers, 
firearms have been used by Belize security personnel 
and  by  the  trespassers,  who  are  invariably  armed. 
Indeed,  between  September  2014  and  March  2016, 
a  Belizean  Tourism  Police  officer  was  killed  and  a 
Belize  Defence  Force  sergeant  was  ambushed  and 
shot, though not fatally, by trespassers entering Belize 
from Guatemala.
Tragically, and much to Belize’s regret, on 20 April 
2016  a  Guatemalan  minor  was  fatally  shot  and  his 
father  and  brother  injured  when  they  came  in  contact 
with a Belizean patrol in one of our protected national 
parks in the dead of night. The Belize Police forthwith 
began  an  investigation.  Moreover,  officials  of  the 
Organization  of  American  States  (OAS),  stationed  in 
the  Adjacency  Zone  between  Belize  and  Guatemala, 
immediately commenced their own investigation. And, 
at  the  specific  behest  of  Guatemala,  Belize  requested 
the Secretary General of the Organization of American 
States 
independent 
investigation  into  the  incident.  The  Organization  of 
American  States  commissioned  two  senior  eminently 
qualified 
special 
investigation,  with  the  full  knowledge  and  approval 
of  the  Guatemalan  Government.  At  the  time  of  their 
appointment,  Guatemala  expressed  no  reservations 
as  to  their  competence,  suitability  or  otherwise,  to 
undertake that investigation. Last August, the Special 
launch  an  official  special 
that 
to 
specialists 
to  undertake 
18/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
Commission  delivered  its  findings  to  the  Secretary 
General of the Organization of American States.
The  report  discloses  that  the  deceased  had  been 
detained by security personnel in Belize a mere month 
prior  to  the  incident.  At  the  time  of  his  detention,  he 
was  illegally  carrying  a  .22-calibre  rifle  and  was 
in  illegal  possession  of  wild  game.  He  was  neither 
mistreated,  arrested  nor  prosecuted  by  the  Belizean 
authorities. Instead, he was promptly sent back safely 
to  his  country.  The  report  further  discloses  that  the 
deceased,  his  brother,  also  a  minor,  and  their  father 
were  knowingly  and  unlawfully  well  within  Belizean 
territory on the night of the incident, and that none of 
the  wounds  inflicted  was  caused  by  weapons  carried 
by personnel of the Belize Defence Force. The wounds 
were  inflicted  by  small-calibre  firearms  carried  on 
the  night  of  the  incident  by  two  members  of  a  local 
conservation-oriented  non-governmental  organization 
that  was  part  of  the  Belize  patrol.  Shots  were  fired 
by  both  groups,  the  Guatemalans  and  the  Belizean 
joint patrol, on that ill-fated night. And, the following 
morning,  elements  of  the  Guatemalan  Army,  along 
with  civilians  from  a  nearby  Guatemalan  village, 
entered  Belizean  territory  illegally,  visited  the  site, 
contaminated  the  scene  and  withdrew  and  withheld 
evidentiary  material  that  could  have  been  useful  to 
the investigation.
In  the  wake  of  the  incident,  Guatemala  launched 
a  fanatical  public-relations  campaign  against  Belize, 
falsely  alleging  that  the  Belize  Defence  Force  was 
responsible for the death of the minor. In addition, the 
Guatemalan President publicly announced the massing 
of troops along our western and southern borders.
However,  the  report  of  the  Special  Independent 
Commission  chronicles  what  really  took  place  on  the 
night of the incident. The objective, impartial findings 
of fact established the correctness of Belize’s position 
from the start, and the wholly erroneous nature of the 
allegations levelled against our country by Guatemala. 
The  report  completely  absolves  Belize  of  any  and  all 
blame for the incident. It makes manifest the wrongness 
of  Guatemala’s  accusation  against  Belize  and  against 
the personnel of our Belize Defence Force. Guatemala 
has  since  then  publicly  rejected  the  Commission’s 
report.  However,  it  is  certainly  irresponsible,  if  not 
reprehensible and utterly unacceptable, that Guatemala 
should now seek to reject the results of a process that 
it had specifically requested and agreed to and which 
was  conducted  by  OAS-appointed  independent  third-
country professionals with impeccable credentials and 
with no axe to grind. Moreover, the wanton threat of the 
use of force by a nation against its neighbour is wholly 
uncalled for, recklessly dangerous and in clear violation 
of the Charter of the United Nations and can in no way 
be countenanced.
Belize’s only wish is to live in peace and harmony 
with  all  its  neighbours,  including  Guatemala.  We 
fully appreciate that with each passing day, with more 
and  more  Guatemalans  trespassing  into  our  country, 
despoiling  our  natural  resources  and  engaging  in 
illegal  and  destructive  activities,  the  potential  for 
violent incidents and conflicts has become increasingly 
probable and problematic. That situation makes a prompt 
and  peaceful  end  to  the  anachronistic  and  unfounded 
territorial claim on our country an urgent imperative.
Belize  acknowledges  the  centrality  of  the  United 
Nations in the multilateral order and as a uniting force 
for  championing  the  common  good.  Its  leadership 
likewise  remains  central  to  international  peace  and 
security,  to  development  and  to  the  rule  of  law.  The 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  is  truly  a 
historical  milestone  for  the  entire  world.  The  essence 
of sustainable development is entrenched in the Belize 
Constitution.  Our  economic  development  has  fully 
embraced the indivisibility of social and environmental 
policies. From the early 1990s, Belize began to put in 
place  development  plans  for  its  fledgling  industries 
that are consistent with a progressive legal regime for 
environmental protection.
to 
and 
environmental  developments,  Belize  is  incrementally 
providing  free  public  education  at  the  primary  and 
secondary  levels.  It  has  established  a  Maya  Land 
Rights  Commission  so  as  to  implement  measures  for 
the  identification  and  protection  of  rights  arising 
from  Mayan  customary  land  tenure.  It  is  rolling  out 
a  national  health-insurance  policy,  and  work  is  in 
progress  to  advance  national  efforts  towards  gender 
equality and equity.
Complementary 
those 
economic 
The  national  debate  on  social  issues  recently 
took  a  turn  that  could  set  a  precedent.  A  High  Court 
ruling  held  that  Section  53  of  our  Criminal  Code, 
which  criminalizes  consensual  sexual  acts  between 
same-sex  partners,  is  unconstitutional.  The  ruling 
also expands the definition of “sex” to include sexual 
orientation.  However,  in  response  to  the  request  of  a 
not  inconsiderable  segment  of  our  population,  our 
16-29823
19/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
Government has launched a limited appeal against the 
judgment, challenging only the expanded definition of 
“sex” by the High Court.
In  April,  Belize  was  among  the  first  countries  to 
sign and ratify the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. 
We  also  commend  the  United  States  of  America  and 
China for their leadership for doing so as well. Belize 
fully supports efforts, under the auspices of the United 
Nations,  to  design  a  new  international  treaty  for  the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  in  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction,  and 
welcomes the decision to convene a high-level United 
Nations  conference  to  support  the  implementation  of 
Sustainable Development Goal 14 in June 2017.
In 
that  spirit  of 
inclusiveness,  Belize  urges 
that  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  be  accorded 
meaningful  participation  in  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations. The Taiwanese Government has been working 
assiduously  to  promote  international  cooperation  and 
development,  in  line  with  the  spirit  and  principles  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  It  has  also  fully 
embraced  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  We 
urge the international community to welcome Taiwan’s 
meaningful participation in the mechanisms, meetings 
and  activities  of 
the  United  Nations  specialized 
agencies, including the World Health Organization, the 
International Civil Aviation Organization and the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
Setbacks  in  the  global  economy  and  externalities 
resulting  from 
institutional  policies,  both  public 
and  private,  to  safeguard  against  financial  and  other 
security risks, as well as the adverse impacts of climate 
change, have all conspired against Belize’s sustainable 
development  trajectory.  Today,  we  are  rebuilding  our 
country  in  the  aftermath  of  Hurricane  Earl,  which  in 
less than eight hours resulted in the loss of some 5.5 per 
cent of our gross domestic product.
Belize fully endorses the views and sentiments that 
all other delegations have expressed in their pleas for 
urgent relief from the deleterious consequences of the 
decisions  by  global  banks  to  withdraw  correspondent 
banking relationships from our financial institutions.
Belize  celebrated  its  thirty-fifth  anniversary  of 
independence  on  the  same  day  as  the  International 
Day  of  Peace.  Peace  and  stability  in  our  hemisphere 
are  critical  to  the  development  and  well-being  of  the 
peoples  of  the  Americas.  For  that  reason,  Belize 
remains concerned about the status of the controversy 
to 
between Guyana and Venezuela. We urge the Secretary-
General  to  urgently  exercise  his  authority  under  the 
1966  Agreement  to  resolve  the  controversy  over  the 
frontier between Venezuela and British Guiana in order 
to arrive at a choice of options that would definitively 
settle the border controversy.
Belize  strictly  adheres 
the  principle  of 
non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  sovereign 
States.  In  that  regard,  we  stand  in  solidarity  with  the 
Government and the people of Venezuela in their efforts 
to resolve their domestic issues in accordance with their 
laws and Constitution. We also remain very concerned 
about the unabated cholera epidemic in Haiti, and urge 
the United Nations to take all necessary steps to help 
the Haitian people end that terrible scourge, occasioned 
by  agents  of  the  United  Nations.  Belize  welcomes 
the  tremendous  progress  already  made  in  the  peace 
process in Colombia, which we fully support. We look 
forward  to  an  early  and  successful  implementation  of 
the  agreement.  We  also  commend  the  progress  made 
in the bilateral relations between Cuba and the United 
States. Belize reiterates its call for an early end to the 
economic embargo against Cuba.
We  join  others  in  calling  for  an  early  end  to  the 
tragic conflicts in Syria and Libya, which are an affront 
to  humanity.  We  adhere  fully  to  the  right  of  peoples 
to  self-determination,  and  reiterate  our  solidarity 
with  the  struggle  for  liberation  and  independence 
of  our  Sahrawi  brothers  and  sisters.  Belize  remains 
disheartened,  although  not  discouraged,  by 
the 
intractable  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict.  We  believe 
that  the  only  just  solution  to  that  conflict  is  one  that 
results in two sovereign and independent States, living 
side  by  side  in  peace  and  security  within  secure  and 
recognized borders.
We  stand  in  solidarity  with  South  Korea  in  the 
face  of  North  Korea’s  irresponsible  experiments  with 
nuclear and missile programmes, including the conduct 
of  nuclear  tests,  in  violation  of  Security  Council 
resolutions.  We  join  the  international  community  in 
condemning  those  actions,  which  pose  a  clear  and 
present  danger  not  only  to  South  Korea,  but  to  the 
entire world.
While  we  are  heartened  by  the  indefatigable 
efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  other  philanthropic 
organizations and individuals to alleviate the suffering 
of migrants and other displaced persons worldwide, it is 
evident that much more needs to be done. We in Belize 
20/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
pledge to do all in our power and within our means to 
discharge our obligations to all suffering persons who 
seek our succour.
In a country as small as Belize, in a world as big as 
ours, we are all citizens of planet Earth, big or small. The 
policies that we devise at any level must be reflective of 
that reality. It is up to us leaders, working together and 
shouldering  our  respective  sovereign  responsibilities, 
to ensure that every nation, large and small, and every 
individual,  man,  woman  or  child,  shall  have  a  say  in 
our noble endeavours to achieve a more just, equitable 
and secure world. Our task is clear. Its attainment is not 
impossible,  but  neither  is  it  without  difficulty.  Let  us 
get it done. Belize stands ready to do its part.
In conclusion, as Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
is beginning to prepare to leave office at the end of 10 
sterling years of service to the United Nations and to 
the world as a whole, Belize takes this opportunity to 
thank him and to wish him every success in his post-
Secretary-General life. We also take this opportunity to 
thank the United States President, Barack Obama, as he 
too prepares to leave office later this year. We wish him 
every success in his post-presidential life.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms. Niermala Badrising, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Suriname.
Ms.  Badrising  (Suriname):  On  behalf  of  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Desiré  Delano  Bouterse,  President  of 
the Republic of Suriname, I extend to the President of 
the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  Thomson,  congratulations 
on his election to preside over the General Assembly at 
its seventy-first session. His wealth of experience will 
undoubtedly  contribute  to  the  successful  discharge  of 
his important duties.
I would like to pay tribute to outgoing Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  accomplishments  in 
leading  the  Organization  over  the  past  10  years  and 
for his continuous endeavours to reorganize the United 
Nations. We especially applaud his efforts to promote 
sustainable  development  and  his  commitment  to  the 
betterment of the livelihood of vulnerable groups and 
to the advancement of women. The Government and the 
people of the Republic of Suriname wish the Secretary-
General much success in his future, new challenges.
As  we  continue  our  deliberations  and 
take 
decisions on pertinent issues with respect to the global 
agenda, the world is facing grave financial, economic, 
environmental  and  political  crises.  That  situation 
is  in  contrast  to  what  is  needed  for  the  sustainable 
development  of  all  nations,  namely,  peace,  political 
stability, democracy and universal access to our planet’s 
resources.
At the same time, we are concerned by the multitude 
of challenges and threats that the world now faces in the 
political,  security,  economic  and  social  realms.  They 
include the global recession and economic slowdown, 
which have caused decreasing growth and productivity; 
worsening  inequalities  that  are  causing  increased 
violence,  political  instability  and  social  deterioration; 
transnational  organized  crime  and  terrorism;  and 
digital and technological innovation.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
places  human  beings  at  the  centre  of  development. 
The  implementation  of  the  ambitious  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  gives  us  the  opportunity  to  fight 
for  a  just  world  order  in  order  to  achieve  peace, 
equitable  power  relations  in  the  world,  and  political 
and social stability, as well as an equal distribution of 
wealth and opportunities for all. That would imply that 
eventually the eradication of poverty and the promotion 
of economic growth could be attained.
Nevertheless,  there  is  a  wide  gap  between  what 
we  promise  our  peoples  in  international  and  regional 
forums and what is actually achieved. Suriname believes 
that we must build peaceful and inclusive societies with 
equal  opportunities  for  all.  It  is  therefore  essential 
that  our  social  and  economic  order  be  structurally 
reformed  and  that  we  focus  on  advancing  innovation 
and  new  technologies,  human  knowledge,  capacities 
and  skills.  That  is  needed  in  order  ultimately  to  find 
a solution that will create opportunities to accumulate 
knowledge, increase employment and social protection, 
enhance social inclusion and protect the environment, 
all of which will eventually lead to sustainable growth 
and stability.
It  is  not  by  chance  that  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development also deals with migration, nor 
is it a coincidence that we have been discussing migration 
as  a  top  priority  of  the  international  community.  The 
movement of people across international borders — be 
it as migrants, refugees or asylum-seekers — continues 
to  be  one  of  the  most  important  issues  on  the  global 
policy agenda, for it has enormous economic, social and 
cultural  implications.  As  far  as  refugees  and  asylum-
seekers  are  concerned,  Suriname  holds  the  view  that 
16-29823
21/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
international  norms,  values  and  principles  must  be 
upheld and that human rights must be respected.
the dangers of rising sea levels, Suriname’s sustainable 
development efforts are under serious threat.
importance 
to 
Suriname  attaches  great 
their  national  sovereignty  and 
the 
principles  of  international  law,  under  which  we  have 
committed both to refrain from unilateral interference 
in  the  domestic  affairs  of  other  countries  and  to 
respect 
territorial 
integrity.  That  is  also  essential  for  securing  peace, 
international  security  and  lasting  prosperity  for  all 
nations,  regions  and  peoples.  We  believe  that  the 
only  way  to  create  a  culture  of  peace  and  justice  is 
through  dialogue,  consensus-building  and  negotiated 
resolutions to conflicts. Long-lasting political stability 
requires that democracy and democratic principles be 
respected;  democratic  traditions  must  be  upheld,  and 
the legitimacy of democratically elected Governments 
must be recognized for the duration of their tenure.
A long-standing issue on our international agenda 
is  the  struggle  of  the  Palestinian  people.  Suriname 
supports  the  two-State  solution  for  both  the  Israeli 
and Palestinian peoples in order to attain the political 
stability  needed  for  their  development.  In  our  region 
of the world, South America, we welcome the historic 
peace agreement that is to be signed today between the 
Government  of  Colombia  and  the  Fuerzas  Armadas 
Revolucionarias de Colombia. It upholds the principles 
of coexistence, cooperation and respect, and reinforces 
our hemisphere as a zone of peace, as declared in 2014 
during  the  third  Summit  of  the  Community  of  Latin 
American and Caribbean States. We also welcome the 
ongoing process to restore diplomatic relations between 
Cuba  and  the  United  States  of  America,  which  will 
contribute to further enhancing peace, stability, unity 
and development in the Americas. We will continue to 
support the call by the international community to have 
the  United  States  lift  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo against Cuba.
Global  temperatures  and  sea  levels  are  rising, 
ice  caps  are  melting,  and  greenhouse-gas  emissions 
are  not  yet  diminishing.  With  a  forest  cover  of 
well  over  90  per  cent  and  a  deforestation  rate  of 
merely  0.02  per  cent,  Suriname  is  one  of  the  few 
carbon-negative  countries  in  the  world.  Its  relatively 
small size and population — a surface area of 163,000 
square kilometres and a population of 550,000 — make 
it  particularly  vulnerable  to  global  environmental 
challenges and external economic shocks. In addition, 
as a country with a low-lying coastal zone and with the 
majority of its population and fertile soils at risk from 
Nevertheless, we are still prepared to contribute to 
reducing  greenhouse  gases  and  to  implementing  even 
more ambitious policies. However, we cannot do that on 
our own, and we therefore call upon the international 
community not only to develop technical and financial 
support  mechanisms  within 
financial 
frameworks,  but  also  to  make  new  and  additional 
financing  available  in  order  to  support  developing 
countries  like  ours.  That  will  allow  us  to  implement 
essential 
and  programmes, 
compensate for losses and damages, develop technology 
and safeguard food production and food security.
adaptation  policies 
existing 
The  consequences  of 
the  global  economic 
slowdown  are  being  felt  throughout  the  world,  and 
Suriname has not been spared. Faced with a drop in the 
international prices of the commodities that we export, 
last  year  we  were  forced  to  implement  an  adjustment 
and reform programme that has imposed difficult but 
necessary adjustment measures. In order to ensure that 
the adjustment runs smoothly and to secure technical 
assistance for our reform programme, the Government 
of  Suriname  signed  a  stand-by  arrangement  with  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  early  in  2016.  In  the 
light of the positive results achieved in a short period 
of time, we reiterate our intention to continue to work 
in close collaboration with the Fund, with the goal of 
securing  macroeconomic  stability  and  carrying  out 
the  institutional  and  legal  reforms  needed  to  restore 
economic growth and social stability.
We are confident that with international commodity 
prices on a steady path of recovery and with the grants 
and soft loans that we have been able to acquire through 
our  friendly  bilateral  relationships  and  multilateral 
partners,  as  well  as  through  international  financial 
institutions such as the Caribbean Development Bank, 
the Inter-American Development Bank and the Islamic 
Development  Bank,  my  country’s  development  path 
will be back on track within the next two years.
We  therefore  thank  all  of  those  who  have  offered 
their assistance in recent years, and we also welcome 
foreign investors who wish to participate in our future 
development. Suriname is a country with many natural 
resources  and  excellent  opportunities  for  outsourced 
production processes. We recognize that we will have to 
exploit our resources commercially if we are to sustain 
our  economic  growth,  and  diversify  our  economy, 
22/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
which  will  include  a  shift  from  complete  dependence 
on minerals and developing new sectors, such as agro-
industry and tourism.
In  order 
to  achieve  sustainable  development, 
world peace and stability for our nations and peoples, 
joint and consensual endeavours are required, as well 
as  greater  cooperation  and  dialogue.  The  relevance 
of  multilateralism  has  proved  to  be  essential  for  our 
coordinated actions. Suriname recognizes the eminent 
role  that  the  United  Nations  plays  in  ensuring  lasting 
development and peace, and we pledge our unwavering 
commitment to the work of the Organization.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Denis Moses, Minister for Foreign and CARICOM 
Affairs of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago.
Mr. Moses (Trinidad and Tobago): I am honoured 
to  have  been  given  once  again  the  opportunity  to 
address the Assembly, which is composed of States that 
are tasked with charting the way forward on a range of 
issues that impact our collective development and well-
being.
Allow  me  first  to  extend  congratulations  to  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  on  behalf  of  the 
Government and the people of the Republic of Trinidad 
and Tobago, on his election to lead the Assembly at its 
seventy-first session. His election comes almost one year 
after the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development,  in  which  the  international  community 
committed to changing its approach to development to 
one  that  is  people-centred,  planet-focused,  grounded 
in  the  principle  of  sustainability,  and  which  endorses 
a  balanced  approach  across  the  economic,  political 
and  social  aspects  of  development.  The  election  of  a 
representative of a small island developing State to the 
presidency of this body is symbolic of the imperative 
for universal action and the contribution that must be 
made  by  all  Members,  regardless  of  size,  economy, 
religion or demography, so as to ensure a trajectory of 
sustainable  growth  and  development  for  humankind 
and life on earth.
Allow  me  to  also  express  our  gratitude  to  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  of  Denmark, 
who  as  President  of  the  Assembly  at  its  seventieth 
session further advanced the Office’s high standard of 
transparency and accountability. Under his stewardship, 
notable progress was made towards the revitalization of 
the General Assembly, and its members fully identified 
the priorities for which action is deemed imperative to 
ensuring our common journey to 2030.
The scope of the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  covers  the  multitudinous 
threats  to  our  collective  well-being  and  the  longevity 
of our civilization. From the existential hazard caused 
by unmitigated climate change to the insidious threats 
of  violence,  extremism  and  terrorism,  to  the  crises 
of  forced  displacement  and  the  spread  of  infectious 
diseases  and  illnesses,  such  as  Ebola,  chikungunya 
and zika, it is clear that the challenges of our time far 
exceed  the  limits  of  geography  and  demography  and 
therefore diminish the efficacy of unilateral responses. 
However, as grave as the threats we collectively face, 
what  is  even  more  compelling  is  the  opportunity 
presented  to  our  United  Nations  to  chart  the  course 
of  meaningful  and  universal  growth  and  prosperity 
by  deepening  our  partnership  and  cooperation.  Such 
an  approach  will  allow  for  a  reversal  of  the  current 
patterns of inequality and insecurity and transform our 
collective circumstances into those that will redound to 
the benefit of all humanity.
The  pathway  to  that  transformation  lies  in  the 
creation of meaningful and innovative partnerships to 
facilitate the full and universal implementation of the 
SDGs. The leadership imperative of our time requires 
that we strike an appropriate balance between national 
interest and the global good and, accordingly, that we 
adopt a deeply cooperative and constructive approach to 
carving out a future of prosperity for our and succeeding 
generations. I am therefore grateful for the opportunity 
to address the Assembly yet again and, in this general 
debate  on  the  aptly  selected  theme,  “The  Sustainable 
Development Goals: a universal push to transform our 
world”, to share the perspectives of the Government of 
Trinidad and Tobago, a small island developing State, as 
a responsible and committed partner in the multilateral 
pursuit of a sustainable future.
A  little  more  than  a  year  ago  in  this  very  Hall, 
Trinidad and Tobago joined other members in adopting 
the ambitious and inclusive 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development,  and  thereby  heralded  a  new  phase  of 
enhanced multilateralism in pursuit of a common goal. 
This groundbreaking Agenda, bolstered by a renewed 
spirit  of  global  solidarity,  compels  each  of  us  to  join 
together  in  international  cooperation  and  partnership 
to profoundly improve the lives of our fellow humans 
without discrimination or prejudice.
16-29823
23/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
Having  adopted  the  Agenda,  we  are  all  now 
tasked  with  determining  the  best  way  forward  for  its 
operationalization  and  implementation,  according  to 
our respective domestic circumstances. As evidence of 
its  unreserved  commitment  to  the  achievement  of  the 
overarching objective of the 2030 Agenda and the full 
implementation  of  the  SDGs,  the  Government  of  the 
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago is placing the principles 
enshrined in the Agenda at the nucleus of its National 
Development  Plan  for  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Vision 
2030. Our Vision 2030 national plan, currently in the 
final stages of elaboration, aligns with the Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  recognizes 
that the 2030 Agenda is a transformative plan of action 
for people, the planet and prosperity through peace and 
partnership. Accordingly, the Government of Trinidad 
and  Tobago  is  committed  to  its  full  implementation 
through 
the  principles  of 
sustainability throughout its policy spectrum.
the  mainstreaming  of 
The 
thrust  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for  global 
transformation, with no one left behind, calls for action 
to enhance the quality of life of all segments of society, 
including  the  systematically  marginalized  groups. 
Among them are women, girls and the differently abled, 
who have historically been denied the equitable access 
to  opportunity  and  mobility  that  would  have  ensured 
their  participation  in  society  as  equal  partners  with 
men and enhanced not only their own quality of life and 
happiness, but also that of their families, communities 
and  society  as  a  whole.  It  is  deeply  regrettable  that 
women  and  girls  and  the  differently  abled  continue 
to be denied fundamental human rights and freedoms 
in  many  parts  of  the  world.  Women  do  not  receive 
equal pay for equal work, and they are systematically 
prevented  from  obtaining  an  education  and  reaching 
their full potential as human beings and as citizens.
Trinidad and Tobago remains committed to raising 
the  standard  of  living  and  welfare  of  all  members  of 
the  national  community,  the  enhancement  of  the 
educational  system,  improving  the  delivery  of  health 
care  and  providing  a  higher  level  of  accessibility  and 
support to persons with disabilities. That commitment 
has been a long-standing position of the Government of 
Trinidad and Tobago, which has enacted several laws, 
policies and other measures to promote and strengthen 
the role of women and girls in society and their overall 
contribution to national development.
One of the defining challenges of our time is that 
of  addressing  the  issue  of  climate  change  and  global 
temperature  increase.  Notwithstanding  the  minuscule 
contribution to absolute global carbon emissions of small 
island developing States such as Trinidad and Tobago, 
unmitigated  climate  change  represents  an  existential 
threat  for  us.  The  future  viability  and  existence  of 
our  island  State  is  dependent  on  the  urgency  and 
ambitiousness  of  the  global  response  to  reversing  the 
already unsustainable trend of the global temperature 
increase.  Consequently,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  joins 
the  international  community  in  endorsing  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  as  a  sign  of  hope  for 
the  future.  We  especially  wish  to  emphasize  that  the 
Agreement prioritizes the need for global action on the 
critical issue of climate change, an approach which, for 
us, is absolutely imperative if we are to have a chance 
of averting its most dangerous effects.
The adoption of the Paris Agreement signalled to 
the world that, in the words of Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon, “the spirit of multilateralism is strong”. That 
spirit  must  continue  to  see  us  through  to  early  entry 
into  force  and  implementation  of  the  Agreement.  In 
keeping  with  that  sentiment,  Trinidad  and  Tobago 
joined 174 other Member States in becoming a signatory 
of the Paris Agreement in April. Trinidad and Tobago 
recognizes that the conversation surrounding the Paris 
Agreement  is  now  focused  on  building  momentum 
towards  its  early  entry  into  force.  To  that  end,  the 
Trinidad and Tobago Government is actively addressing 
the issue of ratification.
looks  forward 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  also 
to 
deliberations  at  the  upcoming  twenty-second  session 
of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,  to  be 
held in Marrakech, Morocco, and to working towards 
the  full  and  effective  implementation  of  the  Paris 
Agreement  and  supporting  international  cooperation 
on the mitigation, adaptation and compliance on a scale 
that will ensure that the increase in the average global 
temperature is limited to 1.5°C.
Although the economy of Trinidad and Tobago is 
largely dependent on the hydrocarbon and petrochemical 
industries,  we  are  committed  to  the  processes  under 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change.  Accordingly,  the  Government  has  instituted 
incentives to encourage investment and job creation in 
renewable and clean technologies in the transportation 
and industrial sectors. The Government has aggressively 
pursued  a  national  economic  diversification  strategy, 
a  strategy  which  will  also  strengthen  Trinidad  and 
24/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
Tobago’s  resilience  to  exogenous  shocks  in  global 
markets.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  continues  to  explore 
innovative  measures  to  bolster  its  economic  stability 
and  its  capacity  to  remain  properly  integrated  in  the 
global financial and trade architecture.
in 
relations 
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
recognizes  that  national  development  efforts  need  to 
be  supported  by  an  enabling  international  economic 
environment  through  international  business  activities 
and  finance,  international  development  cooperation 
and international trade. However, the issue of financial 
institutions  terminating  or  restricting  correspondent 
banking 
the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM)  region  has  destabilized  the  financial 
sectors  of  our  member  States  and  has  disrupted  the 
region’s growth and economic progress. The cessation 
of  correspondent  banking  relations  by  international 
banks,  despite  CARICOM  compliance  with 
the 
recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force on 
Money Laundering and the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development’s  Global  Forum  on 
Taxation,  undermines  our  efforts  to  truly  build  a 
global  partnership  that  will  achieve  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals. The Government of Trinidad and 
Tobago  therefore  joins  its  partners  in  the  Caribbean 
community in calling for international banks to engage 
in collaboration with affected member States to restore 
normal financial relationships between domestic banks 
and international markets.
The 2030 Agenda also recognizes that sustainable 
development  can  be  realized  only  in  a  peaceful, 
secure  and  stable  environment  free  of  war  and 
conflict.  Transnational  organized  crime  and  violence, 
piracy,  trafficking  in  persons,  cybercrime  and  illicit 
trafficking  in  small  arms  and  light  weapons  pose  a 
daunting  challenge  to  the  security  of  all  States,  but 
especially small island developing States (SIDS). It is 
the experience of Trinidad and Tobago, as a small island 
developing State, and of the Caribbean Community as 
a  whole,  that  those  challenges  undermine  our  efforts 
to  achieve  sustainable  development,  threatening  the 
livelihoods  of  our  people  and  the  rule  of  law.  Such 
threats  can  have  the  potential  to  affect  regional  and 
international peace and security.
Consequently,  at  the  international  level,  Trinidad 
and Tobago, together with CARICOM, fully subscribes 
to the Arms Trade Treaty, with the aim of preventing 
armed  violence  in  the  region  and  freeing  many  from 
the  deadly  tyranny  associated  with  a  prevalence  of 
unregulated small arms and light weapons. Since 2010, 
Trinidad and Tobago has also introduced and sponsored 
General  Assembly 
resolution  68/33,  on  women, 
disarmament,  non-proliferation  and  arms  control, 
encouraging women’s participation in all disarmament, 
non-proliferation  and  arms-control  decision-making 
processes at the local, regional and national levels.
the 
and 
Ensuring 
security,  health 
social 
development  of  our  people  continues  to  be  a  major 
priority  for  Trinidad  and  Tobago.  Like  many  others, 
our  country  has  not  escaped  the  effects  of  the  illicit 
drug  trade  and  its  associated  ills.  We  have  come  to 
realize that in the context of sustainable development, 
our people’s continued development cannot be divorced 
from  the  proliferation  of  that  illicit  trade  and  its 
concomitant problems. It is widely acknowledged that 
the  world  drug  problem  and  the  illicit  drug  economy 
have  the  ability  to  destabilize  vulnerable  States  in 
many different ways. In order to deal with the problem, 
the  Government  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  is  using  its 
national  development  agenda  to  launch  initiatives  to 
mitigate  the  socioeconomic  conditions  that  are  both 
the cause and result of the problems related to drug use 
and  trafficking.  The  initiatives  are  fully  aligned  with 
our  overall  policy  direction  and  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
It seems fitting that I am addressing the Assembly 
on  26  September,  the  International  Day  for  the  Total 
Elimination of Nuclear Weapons. Trinidad and Tobago 
would  like  to  stress  that  using  the  nuclear  option 
would have severe humanitarian and other devastating 
consequences for the peoples of the world. We therefore 
reiterate our call for denuclearizing every region of the 
world,  and  we  are  proud  to  belong  to  the  region  that 
enshrined  the  world’s  first  nuclear-weapon-free  zone 
under the Treaty of Tlatelolco.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  believes  firmly  that  the  use 
or threat of use of nuclear weapons constitutes a crime 
against humanity and a violation of international law, 
including  international  humanitarian  law  and  the 
Charter of the United Nations. We lament the fact that, 
46 years after the entry into force of the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the international 
community  is  still  unable  to  undertake  good-faith 
negotiations on nuclear disarmament. Mutually assured 
destruction, which is inevitable with the use of nuclear 
weapons,  cannot  be  a  way  of  settling  disputes  when 
both  the  combatants  and  several  hundred  millions 
of  people  outside  the  theatre  of  war  would  assuredly 
16-29823
25/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
perish.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  therefore  continues  to 
firmly  support  the  call  for  taking  effective  measures 
including  commencing 
on  nuclear  disarmament, 
negotiations  on  an 
for 
prohibiting and eliminating nuclear weapons.
international 
instrument 
Trinidad and Tobago is deeply concerned about the 
growing  number  of  violent  extremist  acts  across  the 
world and the threat that they pose to our shared values 
of democracy, peace, tolerance and respect for human 
dignity.  While  it  is  important  to  deal  with  violent 
extremism from a security perspective, we should not 
overlook  or  dismiss  the  correlation  between  violent 
extremism  and  development.  We  remain  concerned 
about the global trend whereby young people fall victim 
to recruitment by extremist groups, through both online 
recruitment  and  other  forms  of  proselytization.  To 
address the problem, we share the view that in order to 
be as effective as possible, counter-terrorism strategies 
should  include  the  creation  of  enabling  environments 
that  support  the  empowerment  of  young  people. 
That  inclusive  approach  can  help  to  involve  them  in 
advocating  for  the  goals  of  our  collective  aspirations, 
thereby reducing the allure of extremist groups.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  is  committed  to  building  an 
effective  global  framework  for  a  strategic  collective 
security architecture that addresses the negative social, 
economic  and  psychological  conditions  that  give  rise 
to  violent  extremism,  including  poverty,  violations  of 
human  rights  and  weak  governance.  That  framework 
must also be supported by a robust international legal 
system  that  enables  everyone  to  live  freely  and  in 
dignity,  without  fear  of  persecution,  and  that  affords 
everyone equal protection before the law, in word and 
in  fact.  A  robust  framework  of  international  law  can 
protect all individuals from acts of violence, war crimes, 
crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity.
As  a  country  that  was  in  the  vanguard  of  the 
efforts  to  establish  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC), through the pioneering work of the late Arthur 
Robinson,  former  Prime  Minister  and  President  of 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  remains 
resolute in its commitment to supporting the mandate 
of the ICC and its primary objective — helping to put 
an end to impunity for perpetrators of the most serious 
crimes of concern to the international community and 
helping  to  prevent  such  heinous  crimes.  Trinidad  and 
Tobago recognizes the importance and legitimacy of the 
ICC in promoting the rule of law, encouraging respect 
for human rights and achieving sustainable peace and 
the further development of nations, in accordance with 
international law and the purposes and principles of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  For  those  reasons,  we 
urge those countries that have not yet submitted to the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  to  do  so  sooner  rather  than 
later, so that it can appropriately and completely fulfil 
its mandate as a universal court.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  is  located  in  a  region  that 
is  highly  vulnerable  to  the  current  unprecedented 
rate  of  loss  of  marine  biodiversity  and  the  impact  of 
unsustainable  practices  on  the  marine  environment, 
particularly in relation to activities conducted in marine 
ecosystems  beyond  areas  of  national  jurisdiction.  As 
such,  the  Government  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  looks 
forward  to  the  adoption,  under  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS),  of  an 
international legally binding instrument on the issue of 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity 
beyond areas of national jurisdiction. We are of the view 
that  a  new  implementing  agreement  under  UNCLOS 
should  lay  a  foundation  for  achieving  sustainable 
development  and 
the  protection  and  sustainable 
management of the common heritage of humankind for 
the benefit of present and future generations.
On  the  occasion  of  the  adoption  of  the  2030 
Agenda last year (see A/70/PV.4), Trinidad and Tobago 
stated  that  one  of  the  cornerstones  of  the  integrated 
sustainable development agenda is the development of 
a  multilateral  system  strategically  poised  to  facilitate 
the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals 
partnerships. 
Partnerships undertaken by Governments, international 
organizations, civil society, the private sector and others 
provide a vehicle for mobilizing and sharing knowledge, 
expertise, financial resources and technology in order 
to support the efforts of developing countries to realize 
sustainable development.
through  multi-stakeholder 
However,  middle-income  developing  countries 
continue to grapple with a situation that renders them 
ineligible  for  international  development  assistance 
by  virtue  of  their  status,  while  also  coping  with  the 
vulnerabilities of being a small island developing State. 
That  is  indeed  a  problem  when  we  consider  that  our 
country’s  middle-income  status,  based  solely  on  per 
capita  income,  denies  Trinidad  and  Tobago  access 
to  international  development  assistance  that  could 
bolster  our  efforts  to  accelerate  our  sustainable  and 
social  development.  That  is  the  common  experience 
of  the  Caribbean  Community,  and  indeed  of  the 
26/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
majority  of  SIDS.  We  firmly  believe  that  the  United 
Nations  development  system  should  be  driven  by  a 
multidimensional  approach  to  development  assistance 
that  is  better  tailored  to  national  priorities  and 
specific needs.
If the States Members of the United Nations firmly 
believe  that  there  can  be  no  sustainable  development 
without peace — and if we all have intentions to keep 
our promise that no one will be left behind — then the 
international  community  must  find  a  solution  to  the 
protracted conflicts, tensions and humanitarian crises 
occurring across the world.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  continues  to  be  deeply 
concerned  about  the  lack  of  credible  progress  in  the 
Israel-Palestine  conflict.  Recognizing  the  rights  of 
the  Palestinian  people  as  well  as  those  of  Israel,  our 
Government has consistently expressed its support for 
a negotiated settlement involving a two-State solution.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  is  also  concerned  about  the 
ongoing border dispute between Guyana and Venezuela. 
Given that the two countries have historically maintained 
a friendly and cooperative relationship, we believe that 
they  should  both  engage  constructively  in  working 
towards a peaceful settlement, in accordance with the 
principles and purposes of the United Nations Charter.
The  international  community  is  pleased  that  the 
normalization  of  relations  between  the  United  States 
and Cuba is making progress. The memory of the first 
historical  visit  by  a  sitting  United  States  President  to 
Havana  since  the  1959  Cuban  revolution  will  remain 
in the minds of the people of Cuba and the world for 
generations, and Trinidad and Tobago continues to be 
optimistic that the growing relationship between both 
countries  will  continue  in  good  faith,  and  that  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
on  Cuba,  which  significantly  challenges  its  ability  to 
achieve sustainable development, will be lifted soon.
Since  the  adoption  of  the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome (resolution 60/1), not much has been done to 
move  the  process  of  reforming  the  Security  Council 
forward.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  remains  concerned 
about the fact that the intergovernmental negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform  have  seen  little  progress 
since  2008.  We  therefore  urge  all  Member  States  to 
work  collaboratively,  in  the  spirit  of  compromise  and 
for  the  benefit  of  all  States,  to  achieve  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  so  as  to  enable  it  to  better  address 
current  realities,  thereby  improving  the  functioning 
and effectiveness of the United Nations.
On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  I  wish  to  express  our  deepest 
appreciation  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 
whose term as the eighth Secretary-General comes to 
a  close  at  the  end  of  this  year.  Mr.  Ban  has  initiated 
many sweeping changes and reforms at the Secretariat 
designed  to  make  the  Organization  an  ever  more 
dynamic  body  capable  of  responding  to  the  emerging 
needs  and  challenges  facing  its  diverse  membership. 
At  a  time  of  escalating  international  terrorism  and 
the  increasingly  urgent  need  for  decisive  action  on 
climate change, as well as of criticisms of the efficacy 
of the United Nations and its peacekeeping operations, 
his  outstanding  efforts  and  leadership  have  been 
instrumental  in  shaping  the  future  of  multilateralism. 
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  the  Paris  Agreement  are  just  two 
examples  of  an  exceptional  record  of  achievements, 
not  to  mention  his  groundbreaking  initiative  earlier 
this year to convene the first ever World Humanitarian 
Summit,  in  collaboration  with  the  Government  of 
Turkey, in the beautiful city of Istanbul.
Mr.  Rahming  (Bahamas),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
As  the  United  Nations  continues  its  search  for 
a  successor,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  is  of  the  view  that 
the next Secretary-General must be held to the highest 
possible  standards  of  efficiency,  competence  and 
integrity, with proven leadership and diplomatic skills. 
It is the responsibility of the next Secretary-General to 
help  realize  the  extraordinary  expectations  embodied 
in  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  to  address 
the  burgeoning  challenges  of  the  forced  migration  of 
refugees  and  violent  extremism,  and  to  transform  the 
United Nations into a global institution that is effective, 
relevant and fit for purpose.
The  universal  push  to  achieve  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and  transform  our  world  is  the 
responsibility  of  every  State  Member  of  the  United 
Nations. In that regard, Trinidad and Tobago reaffirms 
its  commitment  to  the  Charter  and  its  principles.  We 
will continue to work closely with our family of nations 
in  the  pursuit  of  international  peace  and  security, 
human  rights  and  sustainable  development  for  every 
single  human  being.  While  we  may  look  different, 
speak different languages and face different challenges, 
16-29823
27/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
humankind shares a common beginning and a common 
future. In the words of former Secretary-General Kofi 
Annan,
“beneath  the  surface  of  States  and  nations,  ideas 
and  language,  lies  the  fate  of  individual  human 
beings  in  need.  Answering  their  needs  will  be 
the  mission  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  century 
to come”.
Together, let our answer resonate for generations.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Augustine  Philip  Mahiga,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs,  East  Africa,  Regional  and  International 
Cooperation of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Mr. Mahiga (United Republic of Tanzania): First 
and foremost, I would like to convey to the Assembly 
greetings  from  Mr.  John  Pombe  Joseph  Magufuli, 
President  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  who, 
owing  to  pressing  engagements  at  home,  including 
dealing  with  the  aftermath  of  the  recent  devastating 
earthquake in north-western Tanzania, could not attend 
today’s meeting. He reaffirms Tanzania’s commitment 
to  the  United  Nations  and  its  ideals,  and  wishes  the 
Assembly success in its deliberations.
On  behalf  of  the  people  and  the  Government 
of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  I  would  like  to 
congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  to  lead  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  My 
delegation wishes him and his team a successful tenure 
as  they  preside  over  our  collective  global  agenda. 
Tanzania pledges its support and cooperation to him in 
discharging  his  duties  and  responsibilities.  We  would 
also  like  to  commend  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Mogens 
Lykketoft, President of the Assembly at its seventieth 
session, for his tireless efforts in sustaining momentum 
for the implementation of the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs).
I would like to assure the Assembly of Tanzania’s 
continued  support  to  our  shared  commitment  to 
addressing  the  myriad  challenges  facing  the  world, 
including, but not limited to, poverty, injustice, climate 
change and violent extremism. The United Republic of 
Tanzania is counting on the leadership of the President 
in mobilizing the world to implement the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development. Now that the framework 
for the global indicators is in place, the onus is on us 
to ensure effective implementation of the Agenda. We 
welcome  the  theme  that  the  Member  States  adopted 
for  this  session  of  the  Assembly  —  “The  Sustainable 
Development Goals: a universal push to transform our 
world”.  We  recognize  that  it  is  an  ambitious  agenda 
and  that  much  is  at  stake.  We  know  that  national 
efforts  must  be  stepped  up  if  we  are  to  make  the 
Agenda implementable.
We  in  Tanzania  have  integrated  the  SDGs  into 
our  national  development  plans  and  strategies,  and 
in  collaboration  with  a  broad  range  of  stakeholders, 
we  have  taken  various  steps  to  ensure  effective 
implementation  at  the  national  level.  Our  second 
national  five-year  development  plan,  launched  in 
June, whose theme is “Nurturing industrialization for 
economic transformation and human development”, as 
well as our new 2016-2020 poverty reduction strategy 
for  Zanzibar,  are  informed  by  the  outcomes  of  both 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
the African Union’s Agenda 2063. They are the basic 
frameworks  in  our  efforts  to  improve  the  welfare  of 
Tanzanians and ensure that no one is left behind.
In  spite  of  our  national  efforts,  and  a  significant 
drive to mobilize domestic resources for implementing 
the 2030 Agenda and Agenda 2063, we have learned that 
on our own we cannot realize those ambitious goals in a 
timely manner. Individual and collective efforts at the 
local, national and international levels are imperative. 
We  have  an  international  and  regional  obligation  to 
discharge  our  commitments  in  keeping  with  Goal 
17  of  the  SDGs,  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  on 
financing for development and the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change.
Gender  equality  and  women’s  empowerment, 
as  fundamental  human  rights,  have  now  become  an 
acceptable and enduring theme in humankind’s pursuit 
of  equality  and  justice,  a  scale  for  measuring  social 
progress and an important goal in realizing sustainable 
development.  Women’s  political 
economic 
participation  in  leadership  roles  and  decision-making 
strengthens  democracy  and  equality  and  gives  vigour 
to the economy. That is the essence of Goal 5.
and 
Moreover,  while  women’s  empowerment  and 
full  participation  in  society  are  important  goals 
in  themselves,  they  are  vital  to  reducing  poverty, 
achieving  universal  education,  improving  maternal 
and  child  health  and  fulfilling  other  development 
goals.  Economic  development  is  also  a  strategic  tool 
for  expanding  women’s  political  participation  and 
leadership.  Without  a  capacity  to  generate  their  own 
28/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
incomes, women face considerable barriers to reaching 
higher  levels  of  education  and  obtaining  health  care 
and  the  autonomy  needed  to  participate  in  politics. 
Collectively and universally, they represent more than 
half  of  the  human  resources  and  potential  skills  and 
talents available to humankind in our societies.
Tanzania  is  committed  to  promoting  women’s 
empowerment  at  all  levels.  We  are  striving  to  bring 
more women into the formal sector through capacity-
building programmes and advocacy. We have removed 
discriminatory  laws  and  policies  with  the  aim  of 
empowering women, including by reforming our land 
laws  to  entitle  all  to  inheritance  and  equal  access 
to  land.  Tanzania  has  continued  to  act  to  improve 
women’s  representation  in  decision-making  bodies. 
The 2010 general elections saw 126 women elected, and 
by 2015 that number had increased to 142, amounting 
to 36.9 per cent of all parliamentarians in the country. It 
was during the 2015 elections that President Magufuli 
chose  the  first-ever  female  Vice-President  of  the 
United Republic of Tanzania, who also happens to be 
the person participating in the United Nations initiative 
for  the  empowerment  of  women.  That  reaffirms 
my  country’s  determination  to  see  more  women 
in  key  decision-making  positions  and  to  continue 
scaling  up  such  initiatives  to  empower  women  in 
Tanzania.  The  process  is  also  increasingly  owned  by 
women themselves.
Goal  16  of  the  SDGs  recognizes  that  corruption 
undermines  efforts  to  combat  poverty  and  gender 
inequality.  It  denies  access  and  acts  as  a  tax  on 
poor  families  in  their  access  to  their  rights  to  public 
services.  That  is  why  the  Government  of  Tanzania 
has  waged  a  war  on  corruption  by  mainstreaming 
transparency,  accountability  and  effectiveness  in  the 
delivery  of  services  by  public  institutions.  We  have 
instituted mechanisms to promote ethical standards and 
ensure that those holding public office recognize that 
their  primary  responsibility  is  to  provide  quality  and 
timely  service  to  the  public.  We  have  complemented 
those  efforts  by  enhancing  public  awareness  of  the 
evils  of  corruption.  But  national  efforts  to  curb 
corruption  cannot  yield  sustainable  results  without 
support from the international community. Developed 
countries  must  hold  their  investors  and  multinational 
companies  accountable  by  ensuring  that  they  pay  the 
taxes they owe. In order to contribute to financing our 
development,  they  must  also  be  ready  to  return  the 
assets  and  funds  that  some  unscrupulous  leaders  and 
individuals steal from developing countries and hide in 
overseas accounts.
We all know that young people are very important 
to a nation’s development. They are not only the leaders 
of  tomorrow,  they  are  also  the  partners  of  today. 
Ignoring  them  can  lead  to  catastrophe,  as  they  are 
easily lured into harmful activities that are detrimental 
to society, such as drug trafficking and joining radical 
extremist groups and terrorist cells. Since young people 
form  a  large  percentage  of  our  population,  we  are 
taking measures to empower that crucial group, which 
we believe will champion our efforts to implement the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. To that end, 
we have established a youth development fund that by 
March of this year had already lent a total of 1.6 billion 
Tanzanian shillings to 284 youth groups. We therefore 
call  on  our  development  partners  to  complement  our 
efforts in the same cause.
One of the priorities of the Government of Tanzania 
is achieving inclusive and quality education for all. We 
believe that education is one of the most powerful and 
proven vehicles for attaining sustainable development, 
and we are working tirelessly to ensure that all girls and 
boys receive a free primary and secondary education. 
The  Government  has  reformed  its  curriculum  to 
improve  its  provision  of  a  quality  education  capable 
of  addressing  the  needs  of  the  twenty-first  century. 
In  addition,  we  are  directing  our  education  policy 
and strategy in order to reach specific vulnerable and 
marginalized populations, including girls, women and 
those with disabilities.
When  he  took  office,  President  Magafuli  made 
primary and secondary education free for all children. 
The  Government  has  set  aside  more  than  263  billion 
Tanzanian shillings to cover the full cost of guaranteeing 
free primary and secondary education for all, thereby 
demonstrating its commitment to providing free, quality 
education to the people. The objective is to ensure that 
we  meet  target  4.1  of  Sustainable  Development  Goal 
4,  which  requires  States  to  ensure  that  “all  girls  and 
boys complete free, equitable and quality primary and 
secondary education”.
Climate  change  is  poised  to  undermine  national 
efforts to reduce poverty. The losses of human, natural, 
financial,  social  and  physical  capital  caused  by  the 
adverse effects of climate change are of great concern to 
Tanzania as it strives to attain sustainable development. 
That is why we have made climate-change adaptation a 
16-29823
29/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
national priority. Based on the effects of climate change, 
we have prepared a national adaptation programme of 
action  and  subsequent  national  adaptation  plans  for 
Tanzania,  aimed  at  identifying  immediate  and  long-
term actions for addressing climate change through our 
national climate-change strategy.
It is our hope that the Green Climate Fund and other 
funds  will  provide  the  financial  resources  needed  to 
address adaptation requirements, as their unavailability 
limits 
the  delivery  of  national  obligations.  Our 
modest  estimates  show  that  we  need  approximately 
$500  million  annually  to  address  the  already  vivid 
impacts  of  climate  change.  It  is  therefore  important 
for  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change to enhance efforts to address barriers 
to financial resources from such funds. That will allow 
developing  countries,  particularly  those  that  are  least 
developed, to access the necessary resources urgently 
and without conditionality.
its 
The  adoption  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  was  truly  historic.  At  the  time  of  ratifying 
the  Agreement,  Tanzania  submitted 
intended 
nationally  determined  contributions  (INDCs)  on  both 
adaptation and mitigation under the Paris Agreement, 
and  was  among  the  first  countries  to  do  so.  That 
was  a  demonstration  of  our  firm  commitment  to 
fulfilling  our  obligations  on  the  protection  of  the 
planet  and  humankind  in  general.  Our  INDCs  cover 
both  adaptation  and  mitigation  in  the  context  of  our 
national  development  vision.  With  over  48  million 
hectares  of  forested  land,  which  is  more  than  54  per 
cent  of  our  land  mass,  Tanzania  is  already  making  a 
great contribution to the global community in terms of 
carbon sink. However, it concerns us that our nationally 
determined  contributions  as  a  global  community  are 
not adding up to the collective numbers that will make 
the  world  safe  for  humankind.  Those  countries  with 
more  responsibility  and  capacity  must  take  the  lead 
by reducing their emissions, since otherwise the Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change will have very limited 
effect, if any at all.
be  among  the  priorities  on  his  agenda.  In  the  clear 
knowledge  that  corruption  is  a  barrier  to  fighting 
this  menace,  we  are  determined  to  tackle  both  evils 
concurrently.  Our  resolve  will  remain  unshaken,  and 
the  Government  will  continue  to  strengthen  control 
over the trade in and use of drugs. We need international 
cooperation in fighting these international crimes.
The  horrific  terrorist  attacks  in  1998  on  the 
American Embassy in Dar-es-Salaam is a tragedy our 
people cannot forget. The increasing speed with which 
attacks  by  terrorists  and  other  radical  groups  have 
spread around the world has caused the loss of life of 
thousands  of  innocent  people  and  the  destruction  of 
property.  Such  acts  continue  to  undermine  national, 
regional and global efforts to reduce poverty and achieve 
sustainable development. Tanzania is cooperating with 
the  international  community  to  address  this  global 
threat and has taken several practical steps, including 
enacting  the  Prevention  of  Terrorism  Act  of  2002, 
the  Prevention  of  Terrorism  Regulations  of  2014,  the 
Money  Laundering  Act  of  2006  and  the  Amendment 
to Money Laundering Regulations of 2013. A Financial 
Intelligence  Unit  in  the  Ministry  of  Finance  has  also 
been put in place to combat the financing of terrorism. 
Furthermore, 
the  Government  has  established  a 
national counter-terrorism strategy, which coordinates 
the  counter-terrorism  efforts  of  our  agencies.  It  is 
becoming increasingly evident that Tanzania, and East 
Africa  as  a  whole,  form  part  of  the  global  terrorist 
agenda and strategy.
While  strengthening  our  legal  framework  and 
capacities  to  confront  this  menace,  we  continue  to 
enhance  international  cooperation  in  dealing  with 
terrorism.  If  we  do  not  take  stern  measures  now,  we 
risk denying our achievement of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development.  International  terrorism  has 
a  grand  strategy  that  intends  to  envelop  and  shackle 
not only East Africa but West Africa and North Africa 
too, before marching towards Southern Africa. This is 
a serious threat that must be collectively acknowledged 
and tackled by the international community.
Tanzania  has  not  been  spared  by  the  world  drug 
problem.  Illicit  drugs  trafficked  from  other  regions 
are crossing our borders, and some of them remain in 
our  communities.  During  his  inaugural  speech  at  the 
current  session  of  Parliament,  my  President  made  a 
strong commitment to fighting illicit drug dealers and 
traffickers.  In  addressing  the  issue  of  international 
criminality,  bringing  major  dealers  to  justice  will 
On  the  subject  of  regional  conflicts  in  Africa, 
Tanzania  is  concerned  about  the  ongoing  conflict  in 
Burundi and its impact, including loss of life, damage 
to property and the displacement of persons. Tanazania 
has been one of the host countries for the refugees that 
flee Burundi sporadically. It is currently hosting more 
than  165  Burundian  refugees  who  left  because  of  the 
most recent conflict.
30/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
The  East  African  Community  member  States 
are  working  hard  to  ensure  the  return  of  peace  to 
Burundi.  We  believe  that,  under  the  able  leadership 
of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kaguta  Yoweri  Museveni, 
President of Uganda, as a mediator and His Excellency 
Mr.  Benjamin  William  Mkapa,  former  President  of 
Tanzania, as a facilitator, the peace process, which is 
now back on track, will regain its former vigour so that 
it becomes as inclusive as possible and succeeds sooner 
rather than later.
Tanzania  joins  the  international  community  in 
condemning  the  recent  resumption  of  conflict  in 
South  Sudan.  The  situation  has  derailed  the  progress 
we  had  made  towards  settlement  of  the  conflict  and 
the  reunification  of  the  Sudan  People’s  Liberation 
Movement, in which Tanzania and South Africa played 
a significant role. We call upon the parties to the conflict 
in  South  Sudan  to  continue  working  together  in  the 
Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD)-
led efforts to bring about peace. We hope the positive 
effects of the August 2015 IGAD peace agreement will 
continue  to  prevail  and  enable  the  peace  process  to 
move forward swiftly and successfully.
As the current Chair of the East African Community, 
Tanzania  convened  an  Extraordinary  Summit  earlier 
this  month  to  address  the  ongoing  political  impasse 
and security crises in both Burundi and South Sudan. 
It is my hope that both countries will put their national 
interests, particularly those of their people, first and end 
the conflicts. We invite the international community to 
take an interest in these issues, while leaving leadership 
to the East African Community. These conflicts must 
continue to be of concern not only to Africa but to the 
rest  of  the  world,  as  they  impact  upon  international 
peace and security.
The  Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly 
have  adopted  numerous  resolutions  on  Palestine  and 
Western  Sahara  that  demand  attention  and  action. 
The non-implementation of these decisions erodes the 
credibility of the Organization. As States Members of 
the  United  Nations,  we  must  ensure  that  we  put  into 
practice that which we deliberate and agree upon.
Unilateral  sanctions  and  embargoes  imposed  on 
countries  are  a  hindrance  to  development  and  affect 
innocent civilians. While we welcome the resumption 
of  bilateral  relations  between  the  United  States  and 
Cuba, we continue to reiterate our position in favour of 
the  total  elimination  of  embargoes  for  the  betterment 
of  the  peoples  of  both  countries.  The  early  lifting  of 
sanctions  and  embargoes  will  strengthen  relations  for 
the  mutual  benefit  of  both  parties,  the  United  States 
and Cuba.
We  are  currently  witnessing  a  new  process  for 
selecting  the  next  Secretary-General.  We  welcome 
the hearings of the General Assembly on all aspirants. 
The  process  has  shown  that  it  is  possible  for  the  new 
Secretary-General  to  be  selected  transparently  and 
democratically by all Member States. Furthermore, my 
delegation is of the view that the Security Council should 
submit  more  than  one  name  to  the  General  Assembly 
for  voting.  In  addition,  Tanzania  wishes  to  reaffirm 
the  decision  of  the  African  Union  Summit  during  its 
twenty-seventh ordinary session, held in July, that the 
selection  of  the  Secretary-General  should  respect  the 
principle of geographical rotation and take into account 
gender balance. The selection of the Secretary-General 
in  2016  will  send  a  clear  signal  that  the  permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council  are  also  ready 
and  willing  to  embark  upon  a  reform  of  the  Security 
Council.  That  process  will  enhance  the  credibility  of 
the United Nations and begin the long-overdue reforms 
of the Security Council and the General Assembly.
In  conclusion,  Tanzania  wishes  to  pay  particular 
tribute  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  his 
team,  who  will  be  ending  their  tenure  at  the  end  of 
2016. Under the stewardship of Mr. Ban Ki-moon, who 
led  the  Organization  by  example,  we  have  been  able 
to  address  in  all  honesty  global  issues  ranging  from 
climate change to development and peace and security. 
If other issues have lagged behind, he has at least put 
them  on  the  agenda  of  the  United  Nations.  We  look 
forward to the new Secretary-General picking up where 
Ban Ki-moon leaves off.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Valentin  Rybakov,  Deputy  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Belarus.
Mr. Rybakov (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): A year 
ago,  world  leaders  gave  the  green  light  to  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. The document is 
now  our  common  guide  for  the  next  15  years.  In  the 
history  of  the  Organization,  there  have  been  similar 
grand  initiatives.  Unfortunately,  some  of  them  have 
remained confined to paper, such as the idea 40 years 
ago of establishing a new world economic order. I very 
much hope that a similar fate does not befall the current 
Agenda. Yet such fears do exist. The main problem is 
16-29823
31/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
that  the  world  lacks  systemic  stability,  which  means 
that there is no confidence in what will come tomorrow, 
and  there  is  no  confidence  that  the  world  is  evolving 
in accordance with rational order and common sense. 
Wars, conflicts and increasing transnational challenges 
give rise to a feeling of chaos, a chaos that exists side 
by  side  with  unprecedented  interconnectedness  and 
scientific  and  technological  progress.  In  other  words, 
we are living in conditions of contradictory realities.
 How has chaos become a serious contender with 
positive a globalization progress? I think there are three 
answers  to  that  question  —  political,  economic  and 
social.  From  a  political  point  of  view,  problems  have 
arisen because the so-called winners of the Cold War 
did not want to integrate the losers into their system. 
Furthermore, as was the case with the First World War, 
the victors tried to impose their will on the vanquished 
and to unilaterally carry out sweeping global changes 
that  affected  everyone,  not  just  themselves.  That 
attempt  was  unsuccessful.  It  could  not  have  been 
otherwise. It is probably true that history does teach us 
something here. The consequences of that attempt were 
terrible — the destruction of States, festering conflicts, 
mega-terrorism, large movements of people in the form 
of migration. As a result, in terms of politics, the world 
is  now  in  a  period  of  transition.  However,  we  do  not 
know what we are moving towards.
We must also consider the economic factor. In that 
context, there has always been a conflict between the 
State  and  the  market  —  at  least  since  the  time  of  the 
Industrial Revolution. Balanced and healthy competition 
is  unquestionably  useful  for  economic  progress  and 
reducing  poverty  and  inequality.  However,  in  recent 
decades the balance has been disturbed. The market has 
gained the upper hand and the State has been relegated 
to second place. That has happened because it was the 
objective pursued by so-called corporate capital, which 
has dominated life in leading developed countries. And 
what has that free market given us? The minority — the 
true advocate of corporate capital — has achieved even 
greater  wealth.  For  everybody  else  corporate  capital 
has meant nothing but suffering and problems.
It  is  also  important  that  the  market  has  seriously 
exacerbated  the  environmental  challenges  that  the 
world faces. The market is not concerned with anything 
except  profit.  What  does  the  market  care  about  the 
environment?
Problems  of  a  social  nature  are  probably  not 
so  obvious  to  the  general  public.  At  the  same  time, 
they  are  no  less  serious  and  no  less  dangerous  than 
the  challenges  we  face  in  the  political  and  economic 
spheres. We are seeing growing social and cultural gaps 
in the world, and problems of identity loom large. As 
a result we are spending more and more time arguing 
about  essentially  spiritual  matters.  Without  question, 
there  are  understandable  reasons  for  the  advent  of  a 
counterculture in various countries half a century ago. 
There is also an explanation for how that phenomenon 
has  changed  social  relations  in  the  West,  particularly 
in  the  areas  of  morals,  moral  values  and  the  family. 
However, there is something that makes no sense and 
that is why such changes should affect the rest of the 
world. Why should those who have accepted the changes 
impose them on others whose historical contexts were 
different and whose societies therefore had no reason to 
adopt similar changes?
Understanding  the  reasons  for  the  advent  of  an 
unstable world that is full of contradictions is certainly 
important.  That  is  the  first  step  towards  action. 
Therefore, what do we have to do to change the negative 
global  context?  In  political  terms,  we  have  to  have  a 
clear understanding of where we want to go from the 
current  period  of  transition.  What  is  the  new  world 
order  that  we  are  endeavouring  to  create?  Of  course, 
that is easier said than done. In that context, I cannot 
help but quote the outstanding thinker Immanuel Kant 
who said that
“building a just and peaceful international system 
is  the  most  difficult  of  all  tasks  and  a  perfect 
solution is impossible”.
We all have ideas about how to change the world, 
but  those  ideas  are  different  and  we  will  all  have  to 
sacrifice  something  if  we  want  to  enact  a  change  for 
the  better.  The  result  will  reflect  the  lowest  common 
denominator, but that is inevitable. I am not going to try 
to predict what the reality of this new world order will 
be  in  terms  of  its  form  and  content.  I  would  just  like 
to focus attention on three principles that we think are 
essential to building that world order.
First,  the  new  system  should  be  State-driven. 
States remain, as they have been, the main players in 
international  life.  Where  States  are  non-existent  or 
weak, anarchy, chaos and violence reign. Secondly, the 
new world order should be inclusive. That means that all 
States, without exception, should have a voice — a real 
32/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
trends,  notably 
in  connection  with 
voice, not just one for the sake of appearances. Thirdly, 
I am deeply convinced that the new system cannot be 
imposed; it needs to be cultivated. Only then would it be 
considered fair by both politicians and ordinary people.
In  terms  of  the  economy,  we  have  been  seeing 
positive 
the 
re-establishment of a balance between the State and the 
market. The financial and economic crisis of the past 
decade  demonstrated  the  failure  of  free-market  ideas. 
As  a  result,  around  the  world  we  have  been  seeing 
the  re-establishment  and  strengthening  of  the  State 
role in economic affairs. It is important for that trend 
to continue. Belarus has in the past consistently been 
committed  to  the  idea  of  a  strong  State,  especially  in 
economic matters, and we plan to continue that policy 
in  the  future.  It  is  the  will  of  the  Belarusian  people, 
which was clearly expressed in June at the Belarusian 
People’s Assembly.
In the context of economics, another important trend 
is towards regional integration. To some extent, regional 
blocs  have  begun  to  play  an  independent  role  —  one 
which until recently had been the prerogative of States. 
Since  that  seems  to  be  the  trend,  there  is  a  pressing 
need to establish cooperation mechanisms for regional 
processes similar to those we have established for States. 
Belarus holds that theme very close to heart. Belarus, as 
an active participant in a number of regional integration 
processes, remains very committed thereto. We have a 
vested interest in strengthening those processes and are 
deeply convinced that cooperation with other regional 
initiatives will facilitate that task. Our approach could 
be  summed  up  as  “integrating  integration”.  To  assist 
in implementing that concept, we shall soon convene a 
conference on this issue in Minsk, with the support of 
the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe.
Finally,  on  the  need  for  action  in  social  and 
cultural  areas,  let  us  begin  with  a  very  simple  fact. 
We  are  all  different  as  a  result  of  a  host  of  different 
factors — geography, climate, wars, epidemics, religions 
and many others. Those factors have made us who we 
are.  Tradition  and  culture  cannot  be  changed.  They 
have the power to unite. In a given territory they unite 
the  people  who  died  there,  the  people  who  are  living 
there now and the people who have not yet been born. 
It is therefore obvious that imposing our preferences on 
each other is a mistaken and pointless endeavour.
What  we  need  in  this  situation  is  dialogue,  both 
dialogue  to  understand  one  another  and  dialogue  that 
is  a  goal  in  itself.  Dialogue  should  be  an  ongoing 
process that helps to find common ground among the 
different social and cultural approaches and that yields 
a positive result.
Let  us  consider  the  concept  of  the  family  as  an 
example.  We  in  Belarus  are  committed  to  the  values 
of  a  traditional  family,  while  in  other  countries  there 
may  be  a  recognition  of  a  variety  of  types  of  family. 
We think that the individual is part of a family. Others, 
however,  may  assume  that  the  family  belongs  to  the 
individual. We do not need to demonstrate to each other 
the  rightness  of  our  particular  approach.  Instead,  we 
should understand why we hold different positions. Can 
our different approaches lead to some kind of positive 
result? I think they can.
The  Republic  of  Belarus  sees  an  opportunity  for 
addressing such approaches at the meeting of the United 
Nations  Commission  on  Narcotic  Drugs  scheduled 
for  March  2017,  at  which  a  draft  resolution  will  be 
proposed on the role of the family in preventing illicit 
drug trafficking. We all have an interest in an effective 
fight against that challenge. We need to think together 
about how the family may be able to help in that area, 
despite the fact that we may understand the concept of 
family differently.
If Member States really want to achieve the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  they  need  to 
restore  world  stability  and  overcome  the  growing 
chaos. I am convinced that this is possible, and that the 
United  Nations,  with  its  wealth  of  expertise,  has  the 
potential to help States in that endeavour. In any case, 
it is important that the United Nations work on practical 
implementation  of  the  Agenda  rather  than  immerse 
itself  in  the  usual  optimization,  synchronization  and 
report-writing.  It  is  important  to  recognize  that  the 
Secretariat  has  not  always  worked  in  harmony  with 
Member States. We hope that situation will change for 
the better under the new Head of our Organization.
The  new  Agenda  for  the  United  Nations,  like  the 
current global context, poses significant challenges for 
us. Looking at the prospects for their implementation, I 
call on everyone to be guided by the words of the second 
Secretary-General, Mr. Dag Hammarskjöld, who said,
“Never measure the height of a mountain until you 
have reached the top. Then you will see how low it 
was.”
16-29823
33/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Caleb Otto, chair of the delegation of the Republic 
of Palau.
Mr.  Otto  (Palau):  On  behalf  of  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Tommy  Esang  Remengesau  Jr.,  the  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Palau,  I  have  the  honour  to  make  the 
following  remarks  at  the  seventy-first  session  of  the 
General Assembly.
At the outset, Palau would like to congratulate His 
Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson on his election to lead 
our work at the seventy-first session. We are confident 
that he will rise to the many challenges and make the 
Pacific islands proud. We pledge him our support. We 
also wish to take this opportunity to express our sincere 
gratitude  to  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  for  his  sterling 
leadership during the past year. His presidency will be 
known for championing participation and transparency.
We  join  other  Pacific  nations  in  extending  our 
heartiest  congratulations  to  Fiji  on  bringing  home  to 
the  Pacific  islands  from  Rio  de  Janeiro  the  first-ever 
Olympic  gold  medal.  We  would  also  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to commend and thank the people of Brazil 
for successfully hosting the thirty-first Olympiad. Palau 
believes in the power of sport as an important enabler 
of sustainable development, and we contributed to the 
idea  of  sport  being  included  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  as  expressed  in  paragraph 
37 of that document. The power of sport to uplift the 
human spirit was demonstrated when a team composed 
of  refugees  was  allowed  to  compete  in  the  Olympic 
Games in Rio. We congratulate the refugee team, Brazil 
and sport for walking the talk about inclusiveness.
A year ago, as we began our address to the General 
Assembly (see A/70/PV.28), we stated that we lived in 
perilously  challenging  yet  still  hopeful  times.  As  we 
meet  today,  the  perils  of  climate  change  and  global 
conflicts  still  exist.  Other  challenges,  such  as  those 
posed by the flow of migrants and refugees, as well as 
by terrorism and violent extremism, have become more 
prominent,  bringing  with  them  psychosocial  damage 
and  despair.  Addressing  antimicrobial 
resistance 
and  nuclear  testing  issues  have  also  become  matters 
of urgency.
Amid  those  challenges  we  still  have  bases  for 
holding onto hope. The high-level plenary meeting on 
addressing large movements of refugees and migrants, 
held recently, gave us an opportunity to explore ways to 
address the issue, and we eagerly await the report from 
that meeting.
We  commend  Ambassador  Gómez  Camacho  of 
Mexico for his excellent work on the Political Declaration 
of the high-level meeting of the General Assembly on 
antimicrobial resistance (resolution 71/3). We trust that 
the  Declaration  will  galvanize  much-needed  action 
throughout United Nations agencies and on the ground 
in all States Members of the United Nations.
Palau  joins  the  family  of  nations  condemning  the 
nuclear  testing  conducted  by  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea. We are concerned with the peace and 
long-term stability of the Pacific region. The proximity 
of  Palau  to  the  launching  site  places  us  at  particular 
risk. In addition, we call on Member States that have 
not yet ratified the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons to do so in order for us to move one 
step closer to total nuclear disarmament.
The  impact  of  climate  change  in  terms  of  sea-
level  rise,  ocean  acidification  and  the  frequency  and 
intensity  of  storms  continues  to  pose  an  existential 
threat  to  Palau  and  other  small  island  developing 
States. Palau participated actively in the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  processes 
and was one of the countries that strongly advocated for 
making Goal 13 of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) a stand-alone goal on climate change. Palau is 
proud to have been the second, following Fiji, of the 60 
nations to have ratified the Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change,  bringing  the  total  number  of  ratifications 
to  approximately  48  per  cent  of  the  membership, 
with  55  per  cent  of  Member  States  required  for  the 
Agreement  to  enter  into  force.  We  are  encouraged  by 
the 130 nations that have signed the Agreement and are 
confident  that  by  end  of  the  year  the  Agreement  will 
begin to work for all of us.
In  addition,  we  are  hopeful 
that  a  Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for  climate 
change  and  security  will  be  appointed.  Such  an 
appointment  will  provide  an  effective  working  link 
between the Secretary-General, the General Assembly 
and the Security Council on matters dealing with peace 
and security arising from climate change.
It is imperative that no effort be spared to ensure 
that  global  temperature  rise  remains  under  1.5°C. 
Furthermore,  access  to  financial  and  technological 
resources  must  be  made  available  to  small  island 
developing States and all those who need it most.
34/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
Fourteen  years  is  a  short  period  within  which  to 
achieve  the  17  goals  of  2030  Agenda,  which  is  why 
we  agree  with  the  sense  of  urgency  expressed  in  the 
word “push” in the theme for the seventy-first session 
of the United Nations: “The Sustainable Development 
Goals: a universal push to transform our world”. There 
is  an  urgent  need  to  transform  our  world  in  the  face 
of  severe  climate  change  impacts,  global  conflicts 
resulting  in  the  unprecedented  migration  of  refugees 
and poverty exacerbated by huge gaps in resource use 
and  ownership.  There  is  a  need  to  push  —  either  to 
jump-start or go further than we have gone already. A 
push is indeed necessary as we have already lost a year 
of implementation.
In Palau we are in the process of integrating the 17 
Goals  into  our  national  and  sectoral  plans  so  that  we 
can implement the 2030 Agenda in a holistic manner. 
As part of that effort, we have taken an initiative that 
for us represents a concrete path towards achievement 
of the SDGs: the National Marine Sanctuary, which we 
began to implement in 2015.
The  National  Marine  Sanctuary  sets  aside  as  a 
no-take zone 80 per cent of our total exclusive economic 
zone — an area of over half a million square kilometres 
of  our  ocean.  The  Palau  National  Marine  Sanctuary 
is  an  initiative  based  on  a  traditional  practice  of 
conservation called Bul, which imposes a moratorium 
on  the  exploitation  of  diminishing  resources  in  order 
to  allow  them  to  replenish  themselves.  The  National 
Marine  Sanctuary  will  therefore  allow  our  ocean  to 
regain  its  health,  replenish  its  fish  stocks  and  make 
progress in the rejuvenation of the biodiversity within it. 
By strengthening the ocean-based activities of diving, 
snorkeling, kayaking, swimming and catch-and-release 
sport fishing, the Sanctuary will boost Palau tourism, 
which  is  the  main  engine  of  our  economy.  More 
important, it will allow us to pass on a healthy ocean 
and its heritage to our children and the generations to 
follow.
In  addition  to  facilitating  the  achievement  of 
Goals  13  and  14,  the  increased  income  from  tourism 
will allow us to provide basic services, such water and 
sanitation, and to ensure food security. It will allow us 
to address the other Goals, including the eradication of 
extreme poverty, the improvement of health, including 
addressing  the  predominance  of  non-communicable 
diseases,  the  strengthening  of  education,  building 
stronger 
improved 
information and communication technology to facilitate 
community 
resilience 
and 
stronger and more effective disaster resilience. We will 
also be able to address the special needs of children, the 
elderly  and  persons  with  disabilities,  including  those 
with mental illnesses. One of the important outcomes 
we want from the 2030 Agenda is the promotion of the 
mental health and well-being for all citizens of Palau.
is 
The  success  of 
the  Palau  National  Marine 
Sanctuary  will  depend  to  a  great  extent  upon  what 
happens  in  the  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction, 
since  fish  stocks  and  the  health  of  biodiversity  do 
not  have  specific  boundaries.  Palau 
therefore 
grateful  that,  in  accordance  with  resolution  69/292,  a 
new  implementing  agreement  is  under  consideration 
through Preparatory Committee negotiations designed 
to  come  up  with  a  comprehensive  global  regime  to 
better address the conservation and sustainable use of 
the marine biological diversity in areas beyond national 
jurisdiction.  We  are  hopeful  that  the  two  Preparatory 
Committees  will  continue  to  make  positive  progress 
towards  a  strong  implementing  agreement.  It  would 
contribute greatly to the successful achievement of the 
objectives of the Palau National Marine Sanctuary.
Genuine and durable partnerships are also critical 
to the success of the Sanctuary initiative. Conducting 
the  monitoring  and  surveillance  of  such  a  vast  area 
is  very  challenging  when  we  are  so  constrained  in 
our  financial,  technological  and  human  resources. 
This  underpins  the  importance  of  Goal  17  and  the 
significance  of  genuine  and  durable  partnerships  so 
strongly advocated for in the Small Island Developing 
States  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action,  also  known 
as  the  Samoa  Pathway.  In  that  context,  we  also  wish 
to  recommend  that  all  of  us  consider  partnering  with 
God in our work: He is the only faithful, genuine and 
durable partner.
Palau  has  been  fortunate  to  have  many  friends 
and development partners that have assisted us in our 
National  Marine  Sanctuary  initiative,  our  renewable 
energy  efforts  and  our  sustainable  development 
activities. In that regard, we wish to acknowledge with 
gratitude the strong partnerships that we have enjoyed 
with  the  United  States  of  America,  Japan,  Australia, 
New  Zealand,  the  European  Union,  Italy,  India  and 
Taiwan.  We  are  especially  grateful  for  the  assistance 
they have already given us for the Marine Sanctuary, 
on climate change and in other areas of development.
The  Republic  of  China  —  Taiwan  —  provided 
assistance  that  helped  us  to  achieve  our  Millennium 
16-29823
35/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
Development Goals, and we look forward to continued 
support  from  it  towards  our  achievement  of  the  2030 
Agenda. We urge the United Nations system to involve 
Taiwan  in  the  processes  for  implementing  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  We  will  need  all 
the  resources  we  can  garner,  and  it  will  require  the 
participation  of  every  global  citizen  to  have  the  push 
we  need  to  be  successful.  The  mantra  “no  one  left 
behind”  must  refer  not  only  to  benefits,  but  also  to 
the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda.  The  Agenda 
was universal in its development and is universal in its 
transformational goals. It must also be universal in its 
implementation.  Finally,  Taiwan  possesses  technical 
capacity  in  many  areas  which  can  be  shared  with  the 
world.  It  should  therefore  participate  in  international 
meetings,  mechanisms  and  frameworks,  such  as 
the  World  Health  Organization,  the  International 
Civil  Aviation  Organization  and  various  economic 
partnerships, inter alia.
When we talk about participating in and benefiting 
from  the  2030  Agenda,  we  think  of  enablers  of 
achievement.  Accordingly,  in  addition  to  applauding 
the  re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  between 
the  United  States  and  Cuba,  we  would  advocate  for 
lifting the embargo so Cuba can have the resources it 
requires  to  meet  its  developmental  goals.  In  addition, 
we join others in advocating for an amenable resolution 
to the problem in West Papua through meaningful and 
constructive dialogue.
Mr. Bhattarai (Nepal), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Before  I  conclude,  I  would  be  remiss  if  I  did  not 
express, on behalf of Palau, our profound appreciation 
for  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon.  He  is  the  first 
Secretary-General  to  visit  the  Pacific,  and  he  never 
wavered  in  his  desire  to  ensure  that  the  existential 
threats to the most vulnerable small island developing 
States were addressed. Under his stewardship, among 
other  things,  we  achieved  the  Paris  Agreement,  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  We  wish 
him and his family well in their future endeavours.
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon often said,
“We are the first generation that can end poverty 
and the last that can end climate change.”
We agree and salute him for the 2030 Agenda and Paris 
Agreement,  which,  if  implemented  effectively,  will 
help end poverty and climate change, respectively. Our 
resolve  to  leave  no  one  behind  should  be  about  those 
who  need  help  and  about  those  who  can  offer  help. 
Addressing  climate  change  and  achieving  the  2030 
Agenda requires political will, resolve, commitment of 
resources and goodwill. There is no room for political 
barriers.
I  am  reminded  of  what  the  Secretary-General 
said  in  his  statement  at  the  opening  of  the  seventy-
first session of the General Assembly. On the topic of 
barriers, he said,
“Far  too  often,  I  have  seen  widely  supported 
proposals  blocked  ...  by  a  few  or  sometimes  even 
just  one  country  ...  Time  and  again,  I  have  seen 
essential action and good ideas blocked ...
“Is it fair, in this complicated twenty-first century, 
for  any  one  country,  or  a  few  countries,  to  yield 
such  disproportionate  power  and  hold  the  world 
hostage on so many important issues?
“The  global  public  is  right  to  ask  whether  this  is 
how  an  Organization  in  which  we  have  invested 
so  much  hope  and  so  many  aspirations  should 
function”. (A/71/PV.8, pp. 3-4).
In that vein, Palau supports Security Council reform, 
including  expansion  of  the  permanent  membership 
to include two seats for Africa and one seat for small 
island developing States. Our generation will either rise 
to meet the challenges or be condemned to face regrets 
from future generations. We can make the choice. Palau 
has shown the choice it has already made.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
Ms.  Marie-Louise  Potter,  Head  of  the  Delegation 
of Seychelles.
Ms.  Potter 
(Seychelles):  Allow  me 
to  add 
Seychelles’  voice  to  those  who  have  congratulated 
Ambassador Peter Thomson on his election as President 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-first session. I 
also thank Mr. Mogens Lykketoft for his commitment 
and  strong  leadership  as  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventieth session.
Humankind  finds  itself  on  the  cusp  of  achieving 
the immeasurable in terms of making a true difference 
to all peoples of the world. As we embark upon this new 
collaborative journey, our sustained momentum could 
be a catalyst for positive change. We need an institution 
that is not afraid of change and is able to address the 
challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century.  Such  terms  as 
36/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
inclusiveness, compromise and equality should resonate 
throughout  the  Organization.  On  this  note,  allow  me 
to reiterate Seychelles’ calls for fair reform within this 
Hall, while renewing our commitment to the ideals of 
the Charter of the United Nations.
transformation, 
The  chosen  theme  for  this  year’s  Assembly,  “The 
Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a  universal  push 
to  transform  our  world”,  reminds  us  of  the  urgency 
of  the  present  moment.  Within  the  context  of  change 
and 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  played  a  significant  and  crucial  role, 
which  was  to  herald  a  much-needed  call  for  nations 
to  improve  the  livelihoods  of  society’s  weak  and 
marginalized  by  addressing  poverty  in  its  many 
forms,  while  also  promoting  human  rights  and 
environmental sustainability.
Seychelles  is  proud  to  have  achieved  most  of  the 
targets  set  out  in  the  MDGs  and  remains  eager  to 
fulfil  its  responsibility  to  sustain  the  momentum  in 
implementing 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs).  Yes,  we  recognize  that  progress  has  been 
made  both  nationally  and  internationally,  but  we  also 
recognize that much still needs to be done.
In  Seychelles  that  recognition  is  reflected  by  our 
push  to  integrate  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development and the African Union Agenda 2063 into 
our national development strategy. However, I believe 
that  the  path  to  transformation  is  not  one  that  can  be 
travelled  alone.  SDG  17,  which  focuses  on  global 
partnership for sustainable development, reaffirms this 
point.
For  real  change  to  occur,  the  world  will  need  to 
stand together in ensuring that strong action is backed 
by  the  adequate  financial  support  that  is  needed  for 
overall achievement of the Goals, including giving due 
consideration to the special conditions that small States 
and small island developing States are faced with. The 
implementation of a vulnerability index in development 
frameworks  would  enable  a  fairer  measurement  of 
economies  and  serve  as  a  more  appropriate  reference 
tool  for  financial  support 
traditionally 
emphasized per capita gross domestic product.
than 
the 
Goal 14 in particular plays a pertinent role in our 
peoples’ lives. The conservation and sustainable use of 
the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable 
development  has  become  pivotal  to  the  survival  of 
small-island economies.
As a champion of the Blue Economy initiative, which 
is  directed  at  reinforcing  marine-related  activities  for 
sustainability purposes, Seychelles recognizes that our 
oceans present an abundance of untapped opportunities 
for  sustained  growth.  It  is  therefore  imperative  to 
highlight that the Blue Economy concept and SDG 14 
are synonymous with the global action to harness the 
power of the oceans as a tool for transformation. It is 
important in this endeavour that we shift the paradigm 
and  view  the  world  in  innovative  ways.  In  relation  to 
the Blue Economy, the “blue bonds” initiative and the 
debt-swap  agreement  serve  as  tangible  examples  of 
Seychelles’ contribution to the debate.
One of the elements underpinning the Blue Economy 
approach is action to address climate change. Because 
Seychelles is an island nation heavily dependent upon 
the  environment  for  its  survival,  climate  change  and 
its  adverse  effects  occupy  a  permanent  place  in  the 
minds of our people. We are exposed to its devastating 
consequences  not  as  mere  bystanders,  but  through 
first-hand  experience,  which  affects  our  families  and 
threatens  our  livelihoods.  Addressing  the  impacts  of 
climate  change  is  therefore  an  essential  part  of  the 
discussion, as it involves the very future of our country. 
With this in mind, Seychelles is compelled to put itself 
at the forefront of the fight against climate change, for 
it is a battle that we cannot afford to lose. In this vein, 
the historic Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which 
Seychelles  was  among  the  first  20  States  to  ratify, 
has  been  an  encouraging  sign  of  the  international 
community’s renewed political will to push for positive 
change.
The  security  of  our  oceans  forms  yet  another 
integral  part  of  the  drive  towards  human  progress. 
Illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  imperils 
this  progress  not  only  by  endangering  our  marine 
ecosystems,  but  also  by  harming  food  security  and 
jeopardizing  the  livelihoods  of  millions  of  people 
worldwide. Seychelles therefore renews its commitment 
to ensuring that such violations do not go unanswered. 
Furthermore,  although  we  have  seen 
tremendous 
gains in the long battle fought against piracy, we need 
to  remain  vigilant  and  strengthen  our  own  efforts  to 
reduce  piracy-related  activities  in  our  oceans.  To  that 
end,  the  work  undertaken  through  such  initiatives  as 
the Contact Group for Piracy off the Coast of Somalia, 
which Seychelles currently chairs, is essential for our 
continued success.
16-29823
37/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
Seychelles  fully  supports  all  international  efforts 
aimed at seeking a diplomatic and political solution to 
the ongoing crisis in Syria, which continues to rage at the 
expense of the innocent. We deeply hope that a solution 
is found to further contribute to mitigating the spread 
of extremism and ideologies of hate, which continues to 
wreak  devastating  consequences  on  various  countries 
throughout the world.
The World Humanitarian Summit in Turkey and the 
recent high-level plenary meeting on addressing large 
movements  of  refugees  and  migrants  hosted  by  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  serve  to  highlight 
the scale of the challenges facing the global community. 
Such  challenges  also  solicit  deeper  reflection  on  the 
plight of the more than 60 million people in the world 
who are displaced as a result of conflicts and natural 
disasters linked to climate change. Seychelles calls upon 
the international community for renewed collaboration 
among  States  and  stronger  moral  resolve,  as  together 
we endeavour to address the global humanitarian crisis 
that is weighing heavily on the heart of humankind.
Seychelles welcomes the normalization of relations 
between the United States and Cuba, and we reiterate 
our hope to see an end to the painful economic embargo 
on a sister island nation.
Lastly,  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
our utmost appreciation for the dynamism, hard work 
and  devotion  of  our  outgoing  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon during his term in office. He leaves behind a 
strong legacy of determination to create a more peaceful 
and  equal  future  for  the  world.  Furthermore,  his 
championing of the cause of small islands will remain 
engraved in our collective memory. We are certain that 
his contributions to improving society will continue to 
have positive repercussions and that the new Secretary-
General will follow in his righteous path.
In conclusion, I am hopeful for the future we believe 
in  and  that  the  inherent  goodness  of  humankind  will 
lead us to do what is right. At this critical time we have 
a shared responsibility to cast aside our differences and 
focus  on  what  unites  us  rather  than  what  divides  us. 
I  hope  that  together  we  can  commence  our  universal 
push to transform our world, not only for ourselves but 
for generations to come.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Ib Petersen, Chair of the Delegation of Denmark.
Mr. Petersen (Denmark): At the outset, Denmark 
wishes  to  warmly  welcome  and  congratulate  the 
President of the General Assembly at its seventy-first 
session,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  of  Fiji.  It 
was an honour for Denmark to assume the presidency 
of the Assembly at its seventieth session, and we thank 
His Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft for his excellent 
work.  We  wish  President  Thomson  every  success  in 
leading our crucial work in the year ahead.
We  live  in  volatile  times.  It  is  therefore  up  to  all 
of us to strengthen international cooperation and make 
it  more  effective.  We  must  do  so  in  order  to  foster  a 
peaceful,  sustainable  and  rights-based  international 
society  built  on  the  ambitious  common  goals  that  we 
have adopted this fall.
While  the  challenges  facing  the  United  Nations 
today may seem daunting, our recent record does give 
cause for optimism. The adoption of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, the successful conclusion 
of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  as  well 
as  the  first-ever  World  Humanitarian  Summit,  have 
demonstrated  our  ability  to  come  together  to  address 
today’s global challenges. However, our task now is to 
turn our shared agenda into real change that will benefit 
people around the world. With a new Secretary-General 
coming  into  office,  this  will  be  a  pivotal  year  for  the 
United Nations.
Denmark has always believed that global challenges 
must be addressed through effective collective efforts, 
with  a  sharp  focus  on  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  the 
individual  human  being.  Denmark  has  a  vision  for 
action that is based on three core elements — dignity, 
development and dialogue. Those elements characterize 
our approach to the work of the United Nations and will 
guide our candidacy for the Human Rights Council for 
the 2019-2021 term.
Around the world, many people are denied a life of 
dignity.  Armed  conflicts  and  violent  extremism  have 
led  to  human  rights  abuses  and  violations  in  several 
parts of the world. Syria, Iraq and the Sahel region are 
experiencing some of the most serious and urgent crises 
facing  us  today.  In  many  other  places,  violence  and 
instability are causing immeasurable human suffering. 
Millions of people are subject to oppression, slavery and 
trafficking by the dark forces of the Islamic State in Iraq 
and the Levant (ISIL) and other extremist groups, which 
requires a strong and determined collective response.
38/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
In  Mali,  Denmark  actively  contributes  to  the 
promotion  of  peace  and  stability.  We  donate  to 
the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in Mali and are engaged in long-
term  development  cooperation  with  the  country.  In 
Syria  and  Iraq,  Denmark  contributes  significantly  to 
the  fight  against  ISIL,  including  through  support  for 
local  communities  in  the  aftermath  of  conflict.  We 
must  ensure  that  military  achievements  against  ISIL 
are  followed  up  with  determined  and  coordinated 
efforts to sustain peace. Without such efforts, we will 
not succeed. This autumn, Denmark will launch a new 
three-year  regional  stabilization  programme  for  Syria 
and Iraq. The main focus will be to support immediate 
stabilization  efforts  in  areas  of  Iraq  that  have  been 
liberated from ISIL.
Our  common  security  also  depends  on  nations 
adhering to the norms and rules laid out by the United 
Nations, whether in the General Assembly, the Security 
Council  or  other  organs  and  agencies.  All  countries 
must abide by their obligations under international law, 
including on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
In that regard, Denmark condemns the recent nuclear 
tests  conducted  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  and  urges  the  international  community  to 
respond in a strong and unified manner.
In the past week the world came together to address 
the mounting challenge of millions of people forced to 
flee  from  their  homes  due  to  armed  conflict,  natural 
disasters  or  poverty.  A  staggering  65  million  people 
were  displaced  in  2015,  requiring  a  determined  and 
effective response from the United Nations. Denmark 
welcomes the New York Declaration for Refugees and 
Migrants  (resolution  71/1),  adopted  last  week,  which 
underlinines the principle of shared responsibility and 
the  importance  of  addressing  the  fundamental  causes 
of migration. Denmark is among the largest per capita 
humanitarian donors in the world, and we will continue 
to  do  our  part.  Poverty  and  a  lack  of  opportunity  are 
among  the  underlying  factors  leading  to  conflict  and 
instability; they are also key factors in driving people 
from their homes.
Delivery  on  sustainable  development  and  the 
eradication of extreme poverty are vital avenues towards 
a  free,  peaceful,  prosperous  world  and  in  addressing 
the  fundamental  causes  of  migration.  Denmark’s 
development  cooperation  is  a  concrete  testament  to 
our commitment to the United Nations and to assisting 
the world’s poorest and most vulnerable people. Since 
1978 — for almost four decades — Denmark has been 
meeting the target of providing 0.7 per cent of its gross 
national  income  to  official  development  assistance. 
We  strongly  urge  many  more  countries  to  meet  the 
same goal.
A pre-eminent challenge on the path to sustainable 
development is climate change. We must all take up the 
challenge of turning the commitments set forth in the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change into action, to bring 
about immense and positive change for the planet and 
for people. All of those present in this Hall can count on 
Denmark to be at the forefront in that endeavour — in 
terms  of  follow-up  both  at  home  and  internationally. 
The  Danish  Government  will  put  forward  a  motion 
for  ratification  of  the  Paris  Agreement  in  the  Danish 
Parliament on 5 October.
The Sustainable Development Goals can be achieved 
only if cooperation is integrated across different fields 
and  sectors.  The  United  Nations  development  system 
must be reformed and made truly fit for purpose. The 
United  Nations  system  must  completely  rethink  its 
operational  approach.  The  silo  mentality  and  internal 
competition for resources must become phenomena of 
the past.
Denmark 
firmly  believes 
that  we  need  a 
significantly  strengthened  focus  on  the  role  of  young 
people. The 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development 
is  essentially  an  agenda  for  future  generations. 
Accordingly,  the  engagement  of  the  world’s  young 
people  in  its  implementation  is  indispensable.  Young 
people possess enormous potential and must be involved 
in the work ahead.
We  also  need  civil  society,  academia  and  the 
private  sector  to  support  policy  implementation  and 
provide  innovative  solutions  and  know-how.  We  need 
to engage in fruitful public-private partnerships to push 
implementation even further.
Governments can play an important role in further 
encouraging private business and investors to contribute 
to  implementation  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals. That is why the Prime Minister of Denmark last 
week announced a new Sustainable Development Goals 
investment fund. The goal is to raise capital from private 
investors and reach a capital base of up to $750 million. 
Investments  will  be  made  across  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  —  to  improve  energy,  climate 
mitigation,  industry,  infrastructure,  food  production 
16-29823
39/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
and health care in order to generate sustainable growth, 
jobs and tax revenue in developing countries.
showcased at the Conference, providing inspiration for 
women and men all over the world.
In  addition,  we  need  global  free  trade  as  an 
essential  element  in  fostering  long-term  development 
and economic growth. Denmark is actively advocating 
for  creating  better  market  access  for  developing 
countries and improving business conditions, including 
at the World Trade Organization. In short, if goods pass 
borders, it is less likely that soldiers will.
The effectiveness of the United Nations system, and 
indeed our ability to turn the promise of the Sustainable 
Development Goals into reality, begins and ends with 
the  willingness  of  Member  States  to  work  together. 
Addressing  global  challenges  through  dialogue  is  the 
raison  d’être  of  the  United  Nations,  and  it  resonates 
with  Danish  political  tradition.  That  is  why,  from  the 
beginning,  we  have  been  deeply  engaged  in  building 
up the Organization. This is also true in very concrete 
terms,  as  the  Trusteeship  Council  Chamber,  located 
next  to  this  General  Assembly  Hall,  was  designed 
by  the  Danish  architect  Finn  Juhl,  whose  design  was 
precisely intended to foster dialogue among delegates, 
thereby  promoting  the  democratic  mission  of  the 
United Nations. In all modesty, we think he succeeded 
quite well.
More than 50 years of partnerships in international 
development  with  an  approach  based  on  dialogue  has 
taught us the value of partnership in ensuring progress. 
As just one example, Denmark has for decades been a 
strong supporter of national human rights institutions 
and  commissions,  ombudsmen  and  other  independent 
human  rights  bodies,  from  the  Middle  East  to  Africa 
and Eurasia.
Gender equality and the empowerment of women, 
key requirements for the achievement of the Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  are  a  cornerstone  of  our  foreign 
policy.  Studies  show  that,  when  a  girl  receives  just 
one additional year of education, she can increase her 
earnings  by  up  to  20  per  cent.  That  is  important,  not 
only for her but also for her family, her community and 
her country.
Denmark was extremely proud to host the Women 
Deliver 2016 Global Conference in Copenhagen, earlier 
this  year.  The  Conference  was  a  testimony  to  the 
importance Denmark places on ensuring women’s and 
girls’ full and equal enjoyment of all human rights. A 
plethora of programmes, initiatives and strategies were 
At  home  and  abroad,  Denmark  promotes  the 
human  rights  and  values  of  indigenous  peoples.  We 
stand  for  their  right  to  control  and  influence  their 
own  development  paths  and  determine  matters 
regarding  their  own  economic,  social,  political  and 
cultural situation.
Denmark  is  one  of  the  strongest  voices  in  the 
global  fight  against  torture.  For  decades  we  have 
ensured the successful adoption of General Assembly 
resolutions that further the work on the elimination of 
torture,  as  laid  out  in  the  Convention  against  Torture 
and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or 
Punishment.  Implementation,  however,  is  key.  That 
is  why  we  —  together  with  Chile,  Ghana,  Indonesia 
and  Morocco  —  have 
the  Convention 
against Torture initiative. Our goal is to work towards 
universal ratification and better implementation of the 
Convention by 2024.
launched 
As  the  people’s  Organization,  the  United  Nations 
needs  to  do  better  to  foster  trust,  transparency  and 
efficiency.  I  am  proud  that  during  Mr.  Lykketoft’s 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  important  steps 
were taken to increase transparency in the work of the 
Office of the President as well in the selection process 
for  the  next  Secretary-General.  If  the  United  Nations 
is to remain a relevant and legitimate organization for 
peace, development and human rights, we must continue 
on  the  path  of  increased  openness  and  transparency. 
That is in the shared interest of all Member States.
In  conclusion,  allow  me,  on  behalf  of 
the 
Government  of  Denmark,  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  also  pay  tribute  to  the  Secretary-General,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon.  Denmark  salutes  the 
progressive  leadership  and  determination  that  the 
Secretary-General  has  displayed  through  a  difficult 
and  very  challenging  period  in  the  history  of  the 
United Nations. He has tirelessly led the way to finding 
viable  solutions  to  global  challenges,  in  particular 
climate  change,  which  has  been  a  journey  that  led  us 
from  Bali  to  Copenhagen  and,  finally,  to  Paris,  and 
which resulted, last December, in an ambitious global 
agreement to fight climate change. Denmark reiterates 
its  appreciation  for  the  progressive  leadership  and 
determination of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.
It is of the utmost importance that the new Secretary-
General show the same determination as his predecessor 
40/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
in  forcefully  addressing  the  challenges  posed  to  the 
millions  of  displaced  persons,  refugees  and  migrants 
across the world, while ensuring the implementation of 
the 2030 Agenda and undertaking the necessary crucial 
reforms of the United Nations. As we strive to reform 
the  Organization,  Denmark  will  stand  by  the  side  of 
the next Secretary-General and continue to support and 
take active and constructive part in the critical work of 
the United Nations going forward.
The  Acting  President: 
on 
Mr.  Kokou  Kpayedo,  Chair  of  the  Delegation  of  the 
Togolese Republic.
call 
I 
now 
Mr.  Kpayedo  (Togo)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
the  honour  to  deliver  to  the  General  Assembly  a 
message from the His Excellency Mr. Faure Essozimna 
Gnassingbé, President of the Togolese Republic.
“It is with a feeling of shared joy that we take 
part  in  the  seventy-first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly dedicated to the theme “The Sustainable 
Development Goals: a universal push to transform 
our  world”.  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  express 
my  congratulations  to  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  on  his 
election as President of the General Assembly at its 
seventy-first session.
“I  also  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon,  who  has  worked  tirelessly 
to strengthen the work of our Organization during 
the  past  decade.  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  was  able  to 
successfully guide the United Nations in the process 
towards the design and adoption of a new framework 
that  will  lead  the  Organization  and  the  people  of 
the planet for the next 15 years. I am speaking of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and 
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
“A  year  ago,  we  adopted  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  with  the  aim  of 
transforming  the  world.  Since  then,  we  have 
together  begun  the  process  of  implementing  the 
2030 Agenda to build a more prosperous, inclusive 
and  secure  world.  I  am  therefore  happy  to  see 
the  relevance  of  the  central  theme  submitted  to 
Member States, because the realization of the SDGs 
definitely requires a new impetus of our countries 
individually  and  collectively  and  a 
resolute 
commitment by the entire international community.
the  High-level  Political  Forum  on 
Sustainable Development, held under the auspices 
“At 
of the Economic and Social Council in July, Togo, 
a  pilot  country  for  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, offered to participate in an exercise on the 
advancement of the integration of the SDGs into the 
strategies  and  national  development  programmes. 
On that occasion, we were able to show progress in 
the implementation of our SDG road map, and we 
were also able to share the significant progress we 
have made in the implementation of key actions to 
leave no one behind.
“Specifically, our country has made significant 
progress  in  economic  growth,  the  reduction  of 
poverty and the promotion of peaceful democracy, 
and remains determined to do everything we can to 
ensure genuine, inclusive and sustainable growth. 
Because  of 
launched, 
with  national  financing  and  the  assistance  of 
United  Nations  Development  Programme, 
the 
implementation  of  an  emergency  community 
development  programme 
to  help  significantly 
improve the living conditions of the most vulnerable 
populations in our society.
that  determination,  we 
“Moreover,  the  encouragement  we  received 
in the progress in the area of human development, 
such  as  recognition  by  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations of the Togolese 
programme on the fighting hunger and malnutrition, 
inspires  our  enthusiasm  to  intensify  investment 
in  development  favouring  the  most  vulnerable 
sectors.  We  also  welcome  the  fact  that  the  SDGs 
confirm the validity of strategic initiatives that we 
have been implementing in recent years, at the level 
of infrastructure and economic diversification and 
in  the  improvement  of  the  business  climate  and 
the  promotion  of  young  people’s  and  women’s 
entrepreneurship. Actions are under way to begin 
the  adoption  process  by  the  end  of  the  year  of 
the  implementation  of  our  national  sustainable 
development plan, which seamlessly integrates the 
SDGs  and  will  follow  on  our  accelerated  growth 
strategy and the promotion of employment for the 
2013-2017 period.
“Recognizing that accountability for the results 
and mutual learning processes among countries are 
determinants for speeding up our progress towards 
the achievement of the SDGs, Togo will participate 
in  the  voluntary  review  to  take  place  at  the  next 
high-level political segment on the implementation 
of  the  SDGs.  We  therefore  take  this  opportunity 
16-29823
41/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
before  the  Assembly  to  thank  all  entities  of  the 
United  Nations  system  that  have  helped  us  in 
this exercise.
“It  is  our  conviction  that  the  SDGs  should 
make it possible to transform the world by giving 
priority to the most vulnerable groups — women, 
young people and children, populations threatened 
by conflicts and disasters, migrants and refugees. 
The need to look out for the fortunes of our peoples 
who had been left behind will assume a whole new 
dimension as we celebrate the thirtieth anniversary 
of  the  Declaration  on  the  Right  to  Development. 
Making  development  for  the  most  vulnerable  a 
priority  is  becoming  increasingly  crucial  in  the 
current  context,  which  is  marked  by  multiple  and 
pressing  challenges  of  persistent  poverty  and 
unemployment and threats to human security linked 
to climate change, disease, conflict and terrorism.
“On actions for the protection of the environment, 
Togo  is  facing  major  climate  challenges,  such 
as  coastal  erosion,  flooding,  desertification  and 
unpredictable rainy seasons. I take this opportunity 
at  the  Assembly  to  renew  our  firm  commitment 
to  the  Paris  Agreement.  My  country  signed  the 
Agreement  and  will  do  everything  it  can  to  aid 
in  concluding  the  ratification  process  by  the  end 
of 2016. We are also doing everything possible to 
implement  it.  We  welcome  the  ratification  of  the 
Agreement,  which  is  so  important  for  the  future 
and survival of our planet.
“The  era  we  live  in  is  also  marked  by 
a  resurgence  of  new  health  challenges 
that 
compromise  the  progress  we  have  realized  in 
human and economic terms. Since we are aware of 
that reality, in my position as a coordinator of the 
Ebola  Virus  Disease  Outbreak  Response  Plan  in 
West Africa, I would like to thank all partners and 
organizations that made it possible for us to contain 
and even eliminate this epidemic.
“Continuing in the area of health, I would like 
to pay tribute to all the organizations and Member 
States that contributed to reducing the incidence of 
HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis.  Despite  the 
progress, we must not lower our guard because new 
health threats are on the horizon — diseases that in 
the past were under control but might resurge. We 
need  to  reinforce  our  health  systems  and  policies 
in order to eradicate diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, 
better  fight  maternal  and  infant  mortality  and 
protect our world against antimicrobial resistance.
“No  development  programme  will  be  able  to 
succeed and be sustainable if the national context 
in which it is to be implemented is not imbued with 
peace  and  cohesion.  That  is  why  my  Government 
has deployed so many efforts to eradicate poverty 
and  hunger,  which  are  considered  to  be  the  root 
causes  of  insecurity  and  terrorism.  Furthermore, 
we are working towards strengthening democracy 
and  the  rule  of  law  by  implementing  political 
and  institutional  reforms  that  are  consistent  with 
the  realities  in  our  countries.  In  that  regard,  the 
recently  created  the  Togolese  High  Commission 
for  Reconciliation  and  Strengthening  National 
Unity  organized  a  workshop  in  July  to  reflect  on 
and exchange views among all components of the 
Togolese  nation  with  regard  to  establishing  the 
bases for reforms that have not yet taken effect.
“We are also working to step up democracy at 
the local level in order to provide a better chance 
for  the  success  of  our  development  strategy  to 
reduce  regional  disparity.  In  order  to  do  that,  an 
accelerated  plan  of  action  and  decentralization  is 
also being implemented and should lead in the near 
future to local elections.
“In  the  area  of  the  protection  and  promotion 
of human rights, we are determined to strengthen 
our  achievements  in  order  to  better  guarantee 
fundamental freedoms. We also plan to make better 
use of our term in the Human Rights Council for 
the  2016-2018  period.  In  that  regard,  my  country, 
which  has  undertaken  a  number  of  reforms  in 
accordance  with  the  recommendations  resulting 
from  the  first  cycle  of  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review,  is  preparing  for  the  second  cycle  of  the 
Universal  Periodic  Review,  which  will  take  place 
from 31 October to 11 November.
“The  noble  objectives 
that  our  countries 
have set for themselves, in particular in the areas 
of  sustainable  development  and  the  protection 
of  the  climate  for  future  generations,  cannot  be 
achieved unless peace and security are guaranteed 
throughout  the  world.  In  that  regard,  despite  the 
efforts that have been made under the auspices of 
our  Organization  and  regional  institutions,  peace 
and  security  continue  to  be  threatened  or  put  at 
risk in certain regions. In Africa, Togo very much 
42/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
hopes that the efforts made by the United Nations 
and  regional  African  organizations  will  help  to 
bring peace to South Sudan and Libya, to cite but 
two  countries.  In  that  regard,  Togo  welcomes  the 
fruitful discussions that took place in the African 
Union Peace and Security Council several days ago 
regarding South Sudan’s future, and calls upon the 
parties involved to spare no effort in strengthening 
the country’s foundations. Elsewhere in the world, 
my  country  calls  upon  all  parties  involved  in  the 
Syrian conflict to work in good faith to ensure that 
the Syrian people, crippled by a long conflict that 
has destabilized the whole region, can once again 
find peace, security and stability.
“As  we  all  know,  the  Syrian  and  the  Libyan 
crises  in  particular  are  fuelling  the  scourge  of 
terrorism,  from  which  no  region  in  the  world 
is  currently  spared.  I  would  like  to  once  again 
remember  the  countless  victims  of  terrorism  and 
to express Togo’s solidarity with the countries and 
populations that have recently fallen victim to the 
scourge.  An  effective  counter-terrorism  strategy 
requires  States  to  continue  working  together  by 
further strengthening the cooperation among their 
relevant  technical  units.  The  wealthiest  countries 
must  also  agree  to  support  more  than  they  do 
already  States  like  Togo  that  do  not  have  the 
necessary resources to effectively fight terrorism.
“In the light of the increasing risks and threats 
in our world today, our top priority must be to equip 
ourselves with the means to effectively and swiftly 
address  the  varying  challenges  that  are  affecting 
the  well-being  of  our  populations  and  limiting 
our economic development. Security threats are a 
huge risk for our agenda of transforming the world 
and require us to intensify our efforts to promote 
international  peace  and  security.  To  meet  that 
requirement,  my  country  will  host  the  African 
Union Extraordinary Summit of Heads of State and 
Government on Maritime Security and Safety and 
Development in Africa from 10 to 15 October. The 
Summit’s aim is to agree on a joint declaration that 
can better prevent and address maritime insecurity 
and promote sustainable and inclusive development 
of the blue economy in line with the SDGs and the 
Paris  Agreement.  I  wish  to  once  again  take  this 
opportunity  to  extend  an  invitation  to  Member 
States to take part in the high-level Summit, which 
will involve all stakeholders from my country.
“Seventy  years  after  its  creation,  the  United 
Nations has greatly contributed to progress in the 
world by promoting peace, sustainable development 
and human rights. It has been able to bring about 
such change by reforming some of its own organs 
in  order  to  take  into  account  the  world’s  shifting 
circumstances,  which  Togo  welcomes.  However, 
our Organization, which continues to work towards 
the rooting of democracy in its Member States, has 
found  it  difficult  to  reform  the  Security  Council. 
Its  current  composition  does  not  reflect  real 
development in the world. My country believes that 
it is high time for Member States, and particularly 
for the five permanent members of the Council, to 
resolve to undertake a reform of the organ, which 
is the only way to avoid the frequent deadlock that 
prevents the Council from taking action and rapidly 
solving  crises  and  conflicts.  At  a  time  when  the 
international  community  is  resolutely  committed 
to  pursuing  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development for the benefit of all, any further delay 
in  the  process  of  reforming  the  Security  Council 
can only be harmful to the fulfilment of the SDGs.
“Addressing  all  of  those  challenges  calls  for 
effective and inclusive mobilization with the means 
to  bring  about  the  necessary  changes  for  a  better 
world.  More  specifically,  a  transformation  of  the 
African economy is key to eliminating poverty and 
hunger, providing young people with a future and 
curbing  economic  migrants.  Such  transformation 
is  also  the  best  protection  against  terrorism  and 
the  world’s  growing  insecurity  and  is  essential  in 
giving  fresh  impetus  to  growth  and  in  reducing 
pressure  on  the  environment.  Transforming  the 
African  economy  will  help  to  solve  the  world’s 
challenges,  but  we  must  stay  in  line  with  the 
Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  and  be  mobilized 
for 
through  various 
mechanisms, in accordance with Agenda 2063: The 
Africa We Want.
investments 
subsequent 
“Our  collective  ambition  is  the  well-being  of 
everyone, which means that no one should be left 
behind. In that regard, efforts need to be undertaken 
that  favour  Africa,  which  is  home  to  the  greatest 
number  of  poor  countries,  in  order  to  ensure  its 
inclusion  in  the  world  economy.  Moreover,  the 
African  continent  remains  an  important  lever  for 
transforming the world in the SDG era, as it offers 
huge  potential  for  a  profound  transformation  of 
16-29823
43/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
our world, with a youth population full of vitality, 
dynamic demographic growth, a wealth of natural 
resources, ingenuity and resilient men and women. 
In  order  to  benefit  from  Africa’s  potential,  we 
must  remove  the  obstacles  that  impede  its  social 
and economic development as soon as possible, in 
order to reap the positive benefits at a global level, 
including  in  the  areas  of  climate,  peace,  security, 
health and the right to development.
reasons  for  hope,  as  Member  States  have  been  very 
principled in their remarks, sticking to the ideals of the 
Organization  and  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations and respecting the work 
in all pillars of the United Nations, whether it be peace 
and security, development or human rights. The general 
debate has been a great tribute to internationalism and 
multilateralism in a day and age when those concepts 
are being tested.
“In  the  hope  of  an  innovative  United  Nations 
partnership that can transform the world, starting 
with Africa, I welcome the commitment shown by 
the international community in its adoption of the 
SDGs. I remain convinced that the current session 
of the General Assembly will allow us to capitalize 
on  the  commitment  to  strengthen  our  collective 
working capacity between now and 2030, so as to 
bring about a world that is more secure, prosperous 
and equal, and which demonstrates solidarity and 
respects  human  rights,  in  response  to  the  deep-
seated aspirations of our peoples.”
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker  in  the  general  debate.  Before  proceeding  to 
statements by Member States in the exercise of the right 
of reply, we shall now hear two closing statements on 
the occasion of the conclusion of our debate.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jan 
Eliasson,  Deputy  Secretary-General,  to  make  closing 
remarks on behalf of the Secretary-General.
The Deputy Secretary-General: I thank you, Sir, 
for giving me this opportunity to make a few informal 
remarks at the end of the general debate on behalf of 
the  Secretary-General,  who  is  currently  in  Bogotá 
celebrating the peace agreement in Colombia.
I  wish  to  commend  Member  States  for  the  high 
quality  of  their  statements  during  the  general  debate, 
the  high  level  of  attendance  and  the  seriousness  with 
which they have described the current situation in the 
world,  from  their  different  perspectives.  I  have  not 
spent as much time as I would have liked to in the Hall, 
but I have enjoyed every minute of it when I was able to 
be here, and we have naturally read all the statements 
made. I commend members for the work they have done 
in preparing for this year’s general debate.
This  is  the  time  of  year  when,  here  at  the  United 
Nations,  we  take  the  world’s  temperature,  which 
is  currently  running  quite  high.  But  I  also  see  many 
We  therefore  need  to  understand  that,  in  order  to 
achieve  what  we  want,  our  work  in  the  Organization 
must be ongoing and tireless. If we can show enough 
skill  and  diligence  to  create  satisfactory  international 
solutions  to  today’s  problems,  we  will  increasingly 
find that these international solutions and formulas are 
also in the national interest of Member States. We must 
therefore  remove  the  often  artificial  line  between  the 
concepts of international and national. I know that the 
President  will  mention  some  of  the  highlights  of  the 
debate  in  his  summary,  but  let  me  just  mention  very 
briefly  how  much  the  Secretary-General  and  I  have 
deeply appreciated the Assembly’s strong emphasis.
First of all, on the Sustainable Development Goals, 
the  Assembly’s  great  achievement  accomplished  in 
September  last  year,  or  rather  in  the  three  and  a  half 
years leading up to their adoption. I think it is a historic 
achievement.  Member  States  have  laid  the  foundation 
for a new direction in development. When one adds up 
the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction, the 
Addis Ababa Action Agenda, the New York Declaration 
for  Refugees  and  Migrants  (resolution  71/1)  and  the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change, it is a remarkable 
chance  for  there  to  be  a  new  development  path  for 
Member States and other actors worldwide to follow.
In  addition,  I  know  that  the  Secretary-General 
particularly appreciated the Assembly’s strong emphasis 
on climate change issues. As is well known, his role in 
on those issues has been active and instrumental, but it 
would never have happened unless Member States had 
come to the conclusion that we must shift course in the 
interest of future generations, the planet and our life on 
it. There might be a plan B in life, but there certainly 
is no planet B.
think 
that 
I  also 
the  high-level  meeting  on 
refugees  and  migration  coloured  this  year’s  general 
debate.  Solidarity  with  refugees  and  the  problems  for 
countries of origin, countries of transit and countries of 
destination came to the fore, and we mobilized around 
44/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
the  xenophobia  that  sometimes  is  visible  in  today’s 
world.
We have to make sure that we see the advantages 
of  people  moving  across  borders,  although  we  know 
that  sometimes  such  movements  signal  tremendous 
challenges.  However,  the  New  York  Declaration,  of 
19 September 2016, together with the leaders’ summit 
on refugees led by President Obama, has given a new 
structure  to  the  work  on  refugees  and  migration  that 
will be very useful. Above all, I hope that we will make 
sure that the Organization sends a signal that everybody 
is  of  equal  value  and  that  we  need  to  work  in  such  a 
way as to prevent xenophobic tendencies, which are so 
strong in today’s world, from prevailing.
With  respect  to  conflicts,  I  could  go  on  forever, 
but  I  will  mention  only  Syria  —  the  horror  of  Syria, 
the  nightmare  of  Syria  — and  both  the  need  to  move 
towards  stopping  the  horrific  fighting  —  the  many 
strong  statements  made  in  that  regard  impressed 
us — and the need for us to then do the humanitarian 
work  that  the  United  Nations  wants  to  do  once  the 
fighting  is  reduced  in  intensity.  That  would,  in  turn, 
lead  to  the  possibility  of  starting  a  political  process, 
the prospects for which look pretty sombre today. But 
we cannot abandon this perspective. The suffering has 
gone on far too long. The dangers for the region and the 
world are enormous. We must mobilize to stop this war.
Next, I would also like to commend the new efforts 
by both the General Assembly and the Security Council 
to  accept  the  notion  and  concept  of  sustaining  peace, 
that peace is something that we need to think about, in 
terms of both prevention — reducing violence — and 
post-conflict  work.  In  that  regard,  I  think  that  in  our 
hands lies great potential, together with the Sustainable 
Development Goals, to cross the border lines between 
peace, security, development and human rights. It is a 
great challenge for the United Nations, and I hope that 
we all accept and adopt it.
The  last  point  is  simply  to  express,  on  behalf  of 
the Secretary-General, his gratitude to the members of 
the General Assembly for the very generous and warm 
comments  about  his  10-year  term.  He  has  been  hard 
at  work  for  all  these  10  years.  Although  I  have  done 
only  half  that  number,  I  understand  the  tremendous 
pressure he has been under. But the comments made on 
his role in different areas, not least in climate change, 
have  warmed  his  heart.  I  am  certain  of  that.  I  will 
convey  members’  comments  on  his  accomplishments 
to  him.  Above  all,  I  want  to  convey  to  him  the  spirit 
in which all members have contributed to a very good 
general debate. This is also my own last general debate. 
Once  again,  I  thank  the  President  for  giving  me  this 
opportunity to present remarks in this informal way at 
the end of the debate.
The  Acting  President:  I 
Secretary-General for his statement.
thank 
the  Deputy 
It is now my honour to deliver this closing statement 
on behalf of the President of the General Assembly, His 
Excellency  Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  who,  as  we  speak,  is 
participating  in  the  signing  of  the  Colombian  peace 
deal in Colombia today.
“The general debate of the General Assembly 
provides  us  with  a  portrait  of  the  current  state  of 
our  world,  painted  for  us  by  the  Heads  of  State, 
Heads of Government and Ministers of the States 
Members of the United Nations. Over the past six 
days, we have heard from members of the Assembly 
about their priorities and concerns as well as their 
hopes  for  peace,  human  rights  and  sustainable 
development.  Leaders  recalled  and  reaffirmed 
the  spirit  and  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  confirmed  their  faith  in  the 
central role of the United Nations in international 
cooperation. They also addressed many of today’s 
critical global issues.
implementation  of 
“In  line  with  the  theme  of  the  seventy-first 
session, many leaders expressed their commitment 
to 
the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development. We began with a moving 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  moment, 
which reminded us of how transformative the SDGs 
will be and how urgently action is now required to 
implement  them.  I  am  greatly  encouraged  by  the 
fact  that  so  many  Member  States  have  already 
embedded the SDGs into their plans and policies. 
The  task  at  hand  is  implementation  of  the  SDGs, 
and I was encouraged by the many side events last 
week that emphasized the need for action.
“Wednesday’s parallel meeting on antimicrobial 
resistance  stressed  the  urgent  need  for  a  global 
response to address that critical issue, the impact 
of  which  threatens  millions  of  lives  and  progress 
across the SDGs.
“I  reiterate  my  call  to  Member  States  to  see 
the  SDGs  included  in  the  education  curriculums 
16-29823
45/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
of every country around the world. It is the young 
people  of  the  world  who  must  know  the  SDGs  in 
all their universal and integrated dimensions, since 
they will be the inheritors of the 2030 Agenda.
“Action on climate change is of course essential. 
I congratulate the Secretary-General on the success 
of  his  Paris  Agreement  ratification  ceremony  last 
week.  I  note  that  we  now  need  ratifications  from 
parties  to  the  Agreement  covering  only  a  further 
7.5 per cent of global greenhouse-gas emissions to 
see the Agreement enter into force. I am confident 
we will see this happen prior to the twenty-second 
session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change,  in  Morocco.  I  urge  all  members  not  just 
to  ratify  the  agreement  promptly,  but  to  scale  up 
the level of ambition in reducing emissions in order 
to  limit  the  temperature  increase  to  1.5°C  above 
pre-industrial  levels,  and  to  mobilize  the  climate 
finance  required  to  support  vulnerable  countries 
like the small island developing States and others.
“Looking ahead, I am glad that many leaders 
identified  the  forthcoming  third  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Housing  and  Sustainable  Urban 
Development, in Ecuador next month, and the SDG 
14  conference  on  oceans,  to  take  place  in  June 
2017,  as  additional  major  opportunities  to  drive 
SDG implementation.
“The  plight  of  refugees,  internally  displaced 
persons  and  migrants  across  our  world  was  a 
focus  of  last  week’s  deliberations.  The  adoption 
of  the  New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and 
Migrants  (resolution  71/1)  at  last  Monday’s  high-
level summit was an important step forward. The 
summit launched a process that I will take forward 
during  this  session  with  a  view  to  adopting  two 
global  compacts  on  migrants  and  on  refugees  in 
2018.
“The current global humanitarian and refugee 
crisis has its roots in a number of ongoing conflicts 
in  our  world  and  has  been  exacerbated  by  the 
impacts of climate change. I joined the Secretary-
General  and  Member  States  in  condemning  the 
unacceptable  attacks  on  a  United  Nations  aid 
convoy  in  Aleppo  and  in  calling  for  a  renewed 
effort on the part of global and regional powers to 
find a peaceful political solution.
“Many Member States called for a resumption 
of the Middle East peace process in order to find 
a  lasting  solution.  They  also  stressed  the  need  to 
solve other conflicts and to address the spread of 
violent extremism and terrorism.
“In  relation  to  United  Nations  capacities  in 
maintaining 
international  peace  and  security, 
many  recalled  the  historic  endorsement  by  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  of 
the  concept  of  sustaining  peace,  while  several 
Member  States  made  reference  to  the  importance 
of  women’s  participation  in  peace  processes  and 
of implementing commitments following the 2015 
review  of  resolution  1325  (2000),  on  women  and 
peace and security.
“Numerous  speakers  stressed  the  pressing 
need  for  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  while 
many others highlighted the critical importance of 
advancing disarmament. Those calls will no doubt 
be  echoed  in  today’s  high-level  plenary  meeting 
at  United  Nations  Headquarters  to  commemorate 
and  promote  the  International  Day  for  the  Total 
Elimination of Nuclear Weapons.
“In  the  area  of  human  rights,  Member  States 
renewed their call for the promotion and protection 
of  all  human  rights  and  for  dedicated  efforts 
towards  the  empowerment  of  women  and  girls. 
Member  States  emphasized  the  interrelationship 
between  human  rights,  peace  and  sustainable 
development. Such linkages were also highlighted 
in the context of last Thursday’s high-level meeting 
commemorating  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the 
Declaration  on  the  Right  to  Development.  Some 
members  also  recalled  the  challenges  related  to 
intolerance  and  xenophobia  and  the  continuing 
need to tackle all forms of discrimination.
“Last  week  we  witnessed  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon’s  final  address  in  a  general  debate. 
His statement was a testimony both to the work he 
has done these past nine years and to the scale of 
the challenges his successor will face. The selection 
and appointment of that successor were addressed 
by  almost  every  Member  State.  This  is  a  matter 
that I will manage with great care over the coming 
months, in line with the principles of transparency 
and  accountability  and  with  a  view  to  ensuring  a 
smooth transition. 
46/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
“This  is  but  a  synopsis  of  the  many  issues 
raised 
these  past  six  days.  Member  States’ 
engagement, and that of the many stakeholders that 
have joined us this week, demonstrates once again 
the  unique  nature  of  the  general  debate.  It  is  the 
embodiment of the equality of nations and provides 
Member States with an opportunity to advance our 
collective pursuit of solutions to global challenges 
through dialogue and cooperation.
“At  the  same  time,  I  am  concerned  that  the 
standard  of  decorum  during  the  general  debate 
appears  to  be  slipping,  with  high  levels  of  noise 
in  the  Hall  and  its  surrounds;  with  the  allocated 
speaking time often ignored; with low attendance 
by delegations as the debate progresses; and with 
the  proliferation  of  mandated  and  other  events 
happening simultaneously with the general debate. 
I  will  therefore  encourage  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the 
General  Assembly  to  consider  that  matter  during 
the seventy-first session.
“To  conclude,  let  me  express  my  sincere 
appreciation  to  all  of  the  staff  of  the  United 
Nations — the Department for General Assembly 
and  Conference  Management,  the  interpreters, 
security  officers,  protocol,  maintenance  staff  and 
others  —  for  their  professionalism  throughout. 
Allow  me  to  thank  Member  States  for  their  kind 
words  of  personal  congratulations  and  support. 
I  look  forward  to  representing  each  and  every 
one  to  the  best  of  my  ability  during  the  seventy-
first session.”
Several delegations have asked to speak in exercise 
of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  representatives 
that statements in the exercise of the right of reply are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Horoi  (Solomon  Islands):  Solomon  Islands 
would  like  to  exercise  its  right  of  reply  to  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Indonesia  on 
24  September,  regarding  the  ongoing  human  rights 
violations of the Melanesian people in West Papua (see 
A/71/PV.21).
Solomon 
right  of 
reply  regarding  the  efforts  made  by  the  Indonesian 
Government  to  establish  human  rights  monitoring 
mechanisms  and  other  avenues  to  ensure  that  human 
Islands  notes 
Indonesia’s 
rights violations in West Papua are addressed. We note 
that Indonesia ratified the Convention against Torture 
and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or 
Punishment in 1998, but to date it has not been able to 
harmonize the law to include the definition of torture, 
let alone to criminalize and punish torture. Moreover, 
Indonesia  has  not  submitted  its  periodic  report  to  the 
Committee against Torture since 2008.
The  Solomon  Islands  delegation  receives  reports 
from  respective  sources  of  fellow  States  Members 
of  the  United  Nations  and  moral  leaders  from  civil 
society, illustrating a lack of protection of the human 
rights of the Melanesian people of West Papua. In that 
regard, Solomon Islands therefore invites Indonesia to 
substantiate  its  allegations  that  the  Solomon  Islands, 
together with the five other Pacific Island delegations, 
have used false and fabricated information by allowing 
United  Nations  Special  Rapporteurs  mandated  by  the 
Human Rights Council to visit West Papua and Papua. 
Our concern has to do with the increasing loss of 
lives  at  the  hands  of  Indonesia  authorities.  We  may 
argue and concede that mistakes are made and that lives 
are lost as a consequence, but how can we, as members 
of  this  body  —  the  defender  of  human  rights  and  the 
body of reference in ethical and moral values — turn 
a  blind  eye  to  the  deaths  of  more  than  500,000  West 
Papuans over the course of the past 50 years?
As  an  island  country  in  the  region  that  Indonesia 
claims  to  be  a  part  of,  Solomon  Islands  cannot  stand 
behind the argument of sovereignty and integrity of any 
country and watch such atrocities take place. It is our 
moral and ethical duty, as members of this gathering, 
to bring this unfortunate reality to the fore and to find 
a way together to stop the loss of lives and protect the 
rights of all human beings, be they Melanesians, West 
Papuans or any other. 
Furthermore, we come together to agree on certain 
rights and hold each other accountable to those rights. 
Article 3 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
stipulates that “[e]veryone has the right to life, liberty 
and  security  of  person”.  Indonesia  has  ratified  the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights, 
which is also a binding legal instrument. Article 9 of 
the Covenant reinforces the right to liberty and security 
of  person.  Article  3  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights  entails  a  responsibility  to  protect  all 
populations  from  mass  atrocities,  crimes  and  human 
rights violations. 
16-29823
47/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
In essence, we uphold the argument of sovereignty 
and  national  integrity.  We,  as  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations, should also hold other Member States 
accountable under article 3 of the Universal Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  and  article  9  of  the  International 
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
further 
clarified 
Indonesia  has 
the  many 
development challenges faced by the Solomon Islands. 
Such is the case with the five other Pacific Island States 
that were mentioned by the representative of Indonesia 
in  his  right  of  reply.  Earlier  in  this  meeting,  the 
representative  of  Palau  indicated  that  our  challenges 
are difficult ones and we know full well that we alone 
cannot and will not be able to resolve them. That is why 
we highlight those challenges before this body. 
In  a  similar  vein,  we  highlight  the  human  rights 
violations in West Papua because we realize that neither 
we nor Indonesia can resolve that matter alone. We are 
of  the  position  that  the  matter  needs  to  be  brought  to 
the attention of a United Nations body. It needs to be 
done  urgently  as  lives  are  being  lost,  in  all  impunity. 
All  lives  matter.  West  Papuan  lives  matter.  Solomon 
Islands  wishes  to  reiterate  its  willingness  to  engage 
constructively  with  Indonesia  on  the  matter  of  West 
Papua.  In  fact,  our  Pacific  regional  and  subregional 
bodies have indicated their willingness to discuss these 
matters with Indonesia, as we are all concerned about 
the increasing loss of life in West Papua.
Over the past 20 years, our Pacific island countries 
have  expressed  the  need  for  dialogue  with  Indonesia 
over human rights violations. Over the past 18 months, 
the  regional  and  subregional  organizations  of  the 
Pacific  island  countries  have  made  three  attempts  to 
engage constructively with Indonesia. Indonesia’s lack 
of  will  to  engage  will  not  dampen  the  commitment 
of  Solomon  Islands,  together  with  six  other  Pacific 
Island  countries,  to  pursue  dialogue  and  constructive 
engagement,  which  are  the  only  means  of  resolving 
this  matter.  We  understand  that  through  constructive 
engagement and dialogue we can realize the Articles of 
the Charter of the United Nations and the subsequent 
international human rights instruments that Indonesia 
has ratified.
In  closing,  the  Solomon  Islands  welcomes  the 
opportunity to highlight this case before the Assembly 
so that, together as a family of nations, we can — and 
we  must  —  address  the  human  rights  violations  and 
loss of lives in West Papua. It impinges on us, as States 
Members of the United Nations, to cast aside all barriers 
so that further lives are not lost in West Papua. We are 
here  to  enable  the  divine  purpose  of  the  universe  to 
unfold, for life is sacred.
Ms. Lodhi (Pakistan): The Pakistan delegation is 
obliged to respond to the statement made by the Foreign 
Minister of India earlier today.
Her  statement  is  a  litany  of  falsehoods  about  my 
country and a travesty of facts and history that reflects 
only the deceit and hostility of her Government towards 
Pakistan.  We  reject  all  the  baseless  allegations  made 
in  that  statement.  These  allegations  are  designed 
principally  to  deflect  global  attention  away  from  the 
brutalities  being  perpetrated  by  India’s  occupation 
force of over half a million troops against innocent and 
unarmed Kashmiri children, women and men in Indian-
occupied Jammu and Kashmir. Their call for freedom 
has been met with characteristic Indian brutality.
During  the  past  two  and  a  half  months,  over  100 
innocent  Kashmiris  —  including  infants,  children, 
women and men — have been killed, hundreds blinded 
and  thousands  injured  by  Indian  bullets  and  pellets. 
This is the worst form of State terrorism — a war crime 
that India has continued to perpetrate in the situation of 
foreign occupation in Jammu and Kashmir for the past 
many decades. Pakistan demands a full and impartial 
investigation  of  these  Indian  atrocities  and  massive 
human rights violations in Kashmir. We ask that India 
accept the investigation proposed by the Office of the 
United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  and 
allow it unfettered access for this purpose.
Jammu and Kashmir never was and never can be an 
integral part of India. It is disputed territory, the final 
status of which has yet to be determined in accordance 
with  several  resolutions  of  the  Security  Council.  The 
right  of  the  Kashmiri  people  to  self-determination 
has  been  recognized  and  promised  to  them  by  the 
Security  Council,  India  and  Pakistan.  For  70  years 
India,  through  force  and  fraud,  has  prevented  the 
Kashmiris from exercising this right and from holding 
the United Nations-supervised plebiscite set to enable 
the Kashmiris to determine their political destiny. The 
struggle of the Kashmiri people for self-determination 
is a legitimate one, and they have the right to receive 
the  moral  and  political  support  of  the  international 
community.
The  attack  on  the  Indian  army  base  in  Uri, 
particularly  its  timing,  has  all  the  hallmarks  of  an 
48/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
operation  designed  to  divert  attention  from  India’s 
atrocities  in  occupied  Jammu  and  Kashmir.  The 
international  community  is  well  aware  that  several 
similar incidents have been staged in the past to serve 
India’s  tactical  and  propaganda  objectives.  India  is 
utilizing  the  Uri  incident  to  blame  Pakistan  for  the 
current  Kashmiri  uprising  and  to  divert  attention 
from  its  brutal  occupation.  India’s  Government  is 
delusional if it believes that it can isolate any country. 
It is India itself which, because of its war crimes and 
warmongering  in  Kashmir  and  elsewhere,  is  likely  to 
be isolated within the international community.
It  is  India  that  has  long  been  a  sponsor  and 
practitioner of State terrorism. Over the course of the 
past half-century, India has sponsored and perpetrated 
terrorism  and  aggression  against  all  its  neighbours, 
creating terrorist groups, destabilizing and blockading 
neighbours to do its strategic bidding, and sponsoring 
subversion,  sabotage  and  terrorism  in  various  parts 
of  my  country.  The  recently  captured  Indian  spy, 
intelligence  officer  Kulbhushan  Yadav,  has  confessed 
to  India’s  support  of  such  terrorist  and  subversive 
activities,  particularly  in  the  province  of  Balochistan 
and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas. Indeed, 
it  was  Kulbhushan  who  was  financing,  arming  and 
supporting  individuals  and  entities  listed  under  the 
United  Nations  sanctions  regime.  India’s  policy  of 
interference  in  Pakistan,  especially  its  attempt  to 
destabilize Balochistan, is now a matter of record. This 
is a blatant violation of the principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations.
Instead  of  aiming  to  destabilize  Pakistan,  the 
Indian  Government  would  do  well  to  address  India’s 
own  vast  internal  problems  and  the  dozen  or  so 
insurgencies  occurring  in  its  own  country.  For  the 
Indian Foreign Minister to claim that her country has 
imposed no preconditions for talks with Pakistan is yet 
another  falsehood.  It  was  India  that  suspended  talks 
with Pakistan more than a year ago. It is India that has 
refused  to  resume  them  despite  repeated  offers  from 
Pakistan and advice from the international community. 
The  latest  offer  for  talks  was  made  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Pakistan from the rostrum of the General 
Assembly.
Let us be clear that talks are no favour to Pakistan. 
They  are  in  the  interests  of  both  Pakistan  and  India, 
and the people of both countries. Let me reiterate that 
Pakistan  is  ready  and  willing  for  serious  and  result-
oriented talks with India, with regard in particular to 
resolve the outstanding dispute of Jammu and Kashmir, 
which is imperative for durable peace in our region.
Ms.  Gambhir  (India):  In  yet  another  attempt 
to  divert  our  attention  from  her  country’s  continued 
sponsorship  of  terorrism,  today  we  have  heard  the 
Permanent Representative of Pakistan make a fanciful 
and  misleading  presentation  on  the  situation  in  the 
Indian State of Jammu and Kashmir. At the same time, 
we did not see any attempt by her to answer questions 
that  have  been  posed  repeatedly  by  the  international 
community to Pakistan.
Can the representative of Pakistan clarify how it is 
that terror sanctuaries and safe havens in her country 
continue to flourish despite the Pakistan Army’s much-
vaunted  counter-terrorism  operations  and  the  billions 
of  dollars  of  international  counter-terrorism  aid  it 
receives?  Can  the  representative  of  Pakistan  confirm 
that  her  country  does  not  use  terrorist  proxies  and 
export  terrorism  as  a  matter  of  State  policy?  Can  the 
representative of Pakistan deny that Pakistan, in 2004, 
assured that it would not allow any territories under its 
control to be used for terror attacks against India? Can 
the  representative  of  Pakistan  deny  that  Pakistan  has 
failed to honour the aforementioned assurance, which 
was given at the highest level?
We have heard today the views of a dysfunctional State 
that inflicts atrocity after atrocity upon its own people 
while  preaching  the  values  of  tolerance,  democracy 
and  human  rights.  We  reject  these  sermons  entirely. 
On the other hand, will the representative of Pakistan 
deny  that  the  armed  forces  of  her  country  committed 
one  of  the  most  extensive  and  heinous  genocides  in 
human  history  in  1971?  Will  the  representative  of 
Pakistan  deny  that  her  country’s  armed  forces  have 
repeatedly used air strikes and artillery against its own 
people? Will the representative of Pakistan explain why 
Pakistani civil society is being silenced by the plethora 
of heavily armed militias that go by such names such as 
“Jaish”, meaning “army”; “Lashkar”, meaning “army; 
“Sipah”,  meaning  “soldiers”;  and  “Harkat”,  meaning 
“armed movement”?
Finally,  it  appears  that  the  Representative  of 
Pakistan  did  not  hear  clearly  what  our  Minister  of 
External  Affairs  stated  during  her  address  earlier 
today: “The State of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral 
part of India and will always remain so”. We hope that 
the message is loud and clear.
16-29823
49/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
Mr. Skinner-Klée (Guatemala) (spoke in Spanish): 
We  would  like  to  exercise  our  right  of  reply  to  the 
statement delivered by the Foreign Minister of Belize in 
reference to the territorial, maritime and island dispute 
with my country and recent occurrences in the context 
of  a  150-year-old  conflict.  We  listened  carefully  but 
in  disbelief  to  the  Foreign  Minister’s  remarks,  which 
contained untrue statements.
is  a 
Guatemala 
founding  Member  of 
First,  we  reiterate  our  commitment  to  peace  and 
to  a  permanent  and  definitive  resolution  before  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  of  a  territorial  dispute 
that  both  countries  inherited.  As  was  stated  in  this 
forum by the President of the Republic of Guatemala, 
Mr. Jimmy Morales (see A/71/PV.15), we hope to enjoy 
a  privileged  relationship  with  Belize  and  an  ongoing 
dialogue with a view to resolving our shared problems.
the 
Organization,  and  throughout  its  membership  has 
never  resorted  to  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of  force, 
just  as  we  have  never  committed  any  act  against  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  To  the  contrary,  we  have  sought  a  peaceful 
resolution, in accordance with the principles of justice 
and  international  law,  to  the  dispute  that  we  have 
enduredfor more than a century and half. For more than 
120 years, Guatemala has done the impossible to reach a 
peaceful and mutually beneficial resolution — through 
direct negotiations, mediation and good offices, among 
other measures — to the issue of its usurped territory. 
However,  the  colonizing  Power  took  advantage  of 
our  good  faith  by  unilaterally  granting  independence 
to  Belize  in  1981,  which  once  again  was  contrary  to 
agreements made.
the 
abuse 
Notwithstanding 
and  plundering 
Guatemala  has  suffered,  we  recognized  the  right  to 
self-determination  of  the  people  of  Belize  and  their 
independence,  but  we  maintained  our 
legitimate 
claim to our historic rights over part of their territory. 
Guatemala has always sought through peaceful means 
a  just,  honourable  and  lasting  peace  in  the  name  of 
the  rights  that  were  taken  from  us  by  invasion,  force 
and deceit. We recognize the existence of the State of 
Belize, but we have not renounced our rights, just as we 
have not resorted to violent acts against authorities or 
citizens of our brother country.
Today  we  are  witnessing  another  kind  of 
violence — deplorable behaviour that contravenes the 
bonds of friendship that should govern relations among 
Despite 
the  purposes  and  principles  of 
nations,  as  prescribed  by  Article  1  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations.  This  is  an  obligation  that  should 
be fulfilled in good faith in order to reach a peaceful 
resolution  to  our  territorial,  maritime  and  island 
dispute, as also provided for in Article 2 of the Charter.
the 
Charter,  over  the  past  decade  the  lives  of  defenceless 
Guatemalan  farmers  have  been  taken  by  Belizean 
arms; their only mistake was to come upon areas under 
Belizean  administration.  These  are  people  who  never 
posed a threat to the security of Belize. Such grave acts 
of  irrationality  and  provocation  are  unjustifiable  and 
constitute hostile acts that violate the most basic rules of 
coexistence, and a moral delinquency that jeopardizes 
intentional peace and security, causing outrage among 
a  people  who  long  for  peace  and  call  for  justice  and 
decent treatment.
These  violent  deaths  —  including  the  latest,  a 
14-year-old boy who died at the hands of irregular armed 
forces  accompanying  the  so-called  Belize  Defence 
Force— have all gone unpunished. These are barbaric 
acts that are fundamentally hostile and contradict both 
the  spirit  of  the  Charter  and  the  inevitable  need  to 
promote harmonious and mutually beneficial relations. 
Moreover, they demonstrate irrational behaviour that is 
not legally justifiable.
The expert report to which the Foreign Minister of 
Belize referred does not exonerate Belize, but indicates 
that  the  shots  leading  to  the  death  of  the  boy,  Julio 
René Alvarado, were from .22 and .12 calibre weapons. 
Members of the Belizean non-governmental organization 
Friends for Conservation and Development, which was 
in  a  joint  patrol  under  the  command  of  the  so-called 
Belize Defence Force, were carrying those same types 
of weapons. Although Guatemala did not object to the 
credentials of the experts, it rejects the content of the 
report due to the inconsistencies presented and the fact 
that there is no documentation of scientific support and 
its only backing is the statements of people who were 
directly involved in the tragic events of the fateful night 
of 20 April. This is precisely why such statements have 
no merit whatsoever.
It  is  irresponsible  to  claim  that  elements  of  the 
Guatemalan  Armed  Forces  helped  certain  citizens  to 
illegally  enter  Belize  at  the  place  where  the  incident 
occurred  so  as  to  destroy  evidence  that  would  have 
been  helpful  to  the  investigation.  Furthermore,  it 
shows that Belize did not guard the crime scene, much 
50/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
less  the  chain  of  custody  of  the  evidence.  Belize  was 
responsible  for  such  tasks,  given  that  the  incidents 
took  place  in  territory  administered  by  that  country, 
thereby  naturally  compromising  the  investigation  and 
its results. Whether or not the boy had been detained, 
the excessive use of force by the joint patrol of Belize 
was no more justified than the six bullet wounds in the 
boy’s  back  or  the  two  lethal  shots  in  the  back  of  his 
neck.  Similarly,  none  of  the  deaths  of  10  Guatemalan 
farmers in the Adjacency Zone administered by Belize 
was in any way justifiable.
Regarding 
the  policeman  Daniel  Conorquie, 
who  died  in  2014  in  the  archaeological  site  known  as 
Caracol,  and  the  injuries  suffered  by  Staff  Sergeant 
Richard  Lambey  in  2016,  these  acts  were  committed 
by people that entered into Belize from Guatemala. As 
affirmed by Foreign Minister Elrington, that does not 
mean  or  prove  that  the  people  who  perpetrated  such 
acts are citizens of my country; this is information that 
still has to be investigated.
Guatemala  has  been  patient  and  conciliatory.  For 
more than 150 years, we have had to tolerate the threat, 
seizure and treachery of the imperialist Power, to which 
must be added the present violence and false accusation 
by those who are playing the victim when really they 
are the aggressors. The unauthorized presence of people 
does not and never will justify the disproportionate and 
lethal use of weapons, for any reason whatsoever.
We regret having to resort to this forum for the first 
time to denounce insidious behaviour that obscures the 
reality  of  the  situation.  We  will  continue  to  seek  in 
good faith a solution to our rights in a civilized manner, 
guided by the pressing need to find practical solutions 
to our shared problems. We will be unrelenting in our 
efforts  to  find  a  fair  solution  to  this  historic  dispute, 
just  as  we  refuse  to  abandon  our  citizens.  Rather,  we 
will  continue  our  pursuit  of  an  understanding  with  a 
view to promoting the common good and the privilege 
of living in peace and harmony.
In  that  regard,  Guatemala  will  shortly  adhere  to 
the  Protocol  to  the  Special  Agreement  that  governs 
the  simultaneous  negotiations,  thereby  reaffirming 
our  resolve  to  submit  our  territorial,  maritime  and 
island dispute to the International Court of Justice, the 
supreme  body  that  can  and  must  resolve  this  age-old 
problem so as to avoid further violent acts that will only 
harm both nations.
Mr. Yazdani (Iran): I am obliged to take the floor 
in exercise of the right of reply.
The Foreign Minister of the United Arab Emirates, 
in  his  address  to  the  General  Assembly  on  Saturday 
(see  A/71/PV.21),  reported  a  number  of  baseless  and 
absurd  fabrications  against  my  Government.  Those 
same  targeted  accusations  have  also  been  levelled  by 
the same and other United Arab Emirates officials on 
other  occasions,  but  no  effort  has  ever  been  made  to 
substantiate  them  or  to  provide  any  proof  to  support 
them.  They  are  flatly  wrong  in  their  thinking  that 
repetition  may  make  a  claim  credible.  Conversely, 
repetition makes baseless claims tedious and repulsive.
It  is  absurd  and  hypocritical  for  the  official  of  a 
country  whose  jet  fighters  are  bombing  innocent 
civilians in Yemen to accuse Iran of interfering in the 
domestic  affairs  of  other  countries.  It  is  also  farcical 
to  witness  a  regime  that,  along  with  certain  other 
accomplices,  has  been  exporting  a  host  of  extremist 
takfiri ideologies for decades, as well as funding and 
arming terrorists in Iraq, Syria and many other places, 
take  the  floor  just  to  accuse  Iran  of  attempting  to 
destabilize the region.
The  Emirates  official  once  again  assaulted  Iran’s 
territorial  integrity  by  repeating  a  baseless  claim  to 
Iran’s three islands in the Persian Gulf. We have always 
rejected that falsehood and reiterated that those islands 
have been and continue to be part of Iranian territory. 
No claim, no matter how many times it is repeated, will 
be able in any way to dent or undermine our resolve to 
refute such claims.
increasing 
concerning 
Moreover,  taken  together  with  the  American  and 
Israeli  representatives’  statements  in  the  Assembly, 
we  may  better  understand  the  remark  in  the  Israeli 
statement 
understanding 
between  the  Israeli  regime  and  certain  regimes  in 
the  region.  In  that  light,  we  can  understand  that  the 
focus  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  statement  on  Iran 
and  Iran’s  three  islands  is  not  a  pure  coincidence.  A 
review of those two statements clearly shows how the 
two  respective  regimes  have  come  together  and  how 
the United Arab Emirates and a few of its partners in 
the Persian Gulf are now uniting with the Israelis — a 
coalition that could only be tantamount to betraying the 
Palestinian people.
The United Arab Emirates official also referred to 
the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  (JCPOA)  or, 
as he put it, the so-called nuclear agreement. We know 
16-29823
51/53
A/71/PV.22 
24/09/2016
that the United Arab Emirates and some of its partners 
in the Persian Gulf region did everything in their power 
to impede the road to that deal, to no avail. We know 
that  after  the  fruition  of  the  JCPOA,  they  escalated 
their  provocation  against  Iran  to  compensate  for  the 
détente  that  the  deal  brought  about.  It  is  unfortunate 
that our efforts to reduce tension in the region are not 
reciprocated  by  them  and  that  they  continue  to  incite 
more tension in the region.
Allow me to also refer briefly to the statement made 
today by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bahrain, 
who  also  repeated  the  false  claim  of  Iran’s  so-called 
intervention in Bahrain’s domestic affairs, which is an 
obvious lie. Suffice it to remind him of the report of the 
Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry, set up by 
the  Bahraini  Government.  The  Commission’s  report, 
known as the Bassiouni report, reads in part:
“The evidence presented to the Commission in 
relation to the involvement of the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran  in  the  internal  affairs  of  Bahrain  does 
not  establish  a  discernible  link  between  specific 
incidents that occurred in Bahrain...and the Islamic 
Republic of Iran”.
He also referred at length to the Mina disaster of 
September  2015  and  levelled  criticism  against  Iran, 
which we reject. With regard to that incident, while the 
precious  lives  of  approximately  500  Iranian  pilgrims 
perished in the disaster, we rightly expected the Saudis 
to adopt a responsible approach, which has never been 
the  case  up  to  now.  We  note  with  concern  that  no 
findings from the local investigations of the tragedy, if 
any, have yet to be released. Our legitimate request for 
a thorough, transparent and independent investigation 
into  the  causes  of  the  tragedy,  through  a  committee 
in  which  the  representatives  of  the  affected  countries 
could  participate,  has  so  far  fallen  on  deaf  ears.  We 
note that the flawed management of the hajj pilgrimage 
has caused numerous deadly accidents. Therefore, we 
believe that effective action should be taken to redress 
the situation.
A few speakers also used false and incorrect terms 
to  denote  the  Persian  Gulf.  We  remind  them  that  the 
traditional  term  “Persian  Gulf”  has  been  the  correct 
appellation for that body of water since 500 years before 
Christ and will remain so forever. It is a standardized 
geographic  term,  recognized  by  the  international 
community, including the United Nations, and should 
not  be  tinkered  with  due  to  political  projects  or  the 
daily wishes of this or that ruler.
Last  but  not  least,  we  have  always  endeavoured 
towards  the  removal  of  tension  in  our  region  and 
developing  friendly  and  good-neighbourly  relations 
with  our  neighbours,  including  those  in  the  Persian 
Gulf. We once more reiterate our interest in, and call for, 
dialogue with a view to dispelling misunderstandings 
and  restoring  friendly  relations  that  our  people  have 
mostly enjoyed throughout history.
Ms.  Rakhmatia  (Indonesia):  I  am  compelled  to 
take the floor again in exercise of our right of reply, due 
to the response of the delegation of Solomon Islands.
The remarks delivered earlier by the representative 
of  Solomon  Islands  show  the  use  of  allegations  of 
human  rights  violations  to  support  the  separatist 
movement,  and  only  reaffirm  the  persistent  violation 
of  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  by  blatantly  interfering  in  the  affairs, 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  other  nations. 
It  also  demonstrates  that  country’s  representatives’ 
continuing  ignorance  of  the  facts  on  the  ground  and 
how  they  have  fallen  into  the  trap  of  believing  trash 
information peddled by separatist groups.
Mr. Munir (Pakistan): We have been forced to take 
the  floor  again  to  respond  to  the  Indian  delegation’s 
continued desire to express falsehoods and fabrications. 
We reject all delusional and false claims and assertions 
by  the  representative  of  India.  Irrespective  of  how 
many times one repeats a lie, it can never replace the 
truth. The Indian representative seems to have become 
a victim of her own lies and propaganda.
The facts of the matter have not changed. Jammu 
and  Kashmir  remains  an  internationally  recognized 
disputed territory. It is a travesty of justice and morality 
to stand here in the General Assembly Hall and make 
claims  that  are  against  the  principles  of  international 
law.  Indian  State-sponsored  terrorism  continues  in 
occupied  Jammu  and  Kashmir.  Indian  occupation 
forces  are  decimating  the  fundamental  human  rights 
of  the  hapless  Kashmiris  and  committing  a  crime 
against humanity. Indian involvement in sabotage and 
subversive activities in Pakistan is a well-documented 
fact.  Pakistan’s  commitment  to  fighting  terrorism  is 
recognized internationally.
Lastly, I would reiterate that it seems India has not 
heard the voice of the innocent Kashmiri people. They 
52/53 
16-29823
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.22
do not want to live under occupation. They have been 
saying that for 70 years, but India only tries to repress 
that  unanimous  voice.  I  hope  India  will  wake  up  to 
the reality.
Ms.  Gambhir  (India):  We  have  patiently  listened 
to our colleague from Pakistan. He has chosen yet again 
to stay silent on the tough questions. That is what we 
have come to expect from Pakistan — deception, deceit 
and denial. The world still awaits their response.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the general debate.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 8?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  I  wish  to  announce  that 
this  is  the  last  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly 
for  Ms.  Emma  Pioche,  Conference  Officer  in  the 
Department  for  General  Assembly  and  Conference 
Management.  Ms.  Pioche,  seen  by  all  and  known  to 
many, has worked at the United Nations for 36 years, a 
majority of which have been associated with the work 
of  the  General  Assembly  plenary.  Her  contribution  to 
the  smooth  running  of  Assembly  meetings  has  been 
truly significant, and I would like the Assembly to give 
her  a  round  of  applause  in  appreciation.  We  wish  her 
all the best.
The meeting rose at 2.35 p.m.
16-29823
53/53
