United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
47th plenary meeting
Thursday, 17 November 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.47
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Zamora Rivas 
(El Salvador), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 36
The situation in Afghanistan
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/616)
Draft resolution (A/71/L.13)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  give 
the floor to the representative of Germany to introduce 
draft resolution A/71/L.13.
Mr. Thoms (Germany): Germany aligns itself with 
the  statement  to  be  delivered  by  the  observer  of  the 
European Union later today in this debate.
Let  me  start  by  expressing  our  gratitude  to  all 
Member  States  for  their  constructive  cooperation  in 
preparing  this  year’s  draft  resolution  entitled  “The 
situation 
in  Afghanistan”  (A/71/L.13).  The  draft 
resolution  remains  a  vivid  expression  of  support  for 
Afghanistan  and  its  people  by  the  entire  membership 
of  the  United  Nations.  For  the  first  time  in  years,  we 
have  managed  to  considerably  streamline  the  text, 
restructure  some  chapters  and  add  others.  We  now 
have a draft resolution that reflects the relations of the 
international  community  with  Afghanistan  in  a  more 
concise yet comprehensive way.
The  greatest  concern  expressed 
the  draft 
resolution refers to the still-difficult security situation 
in 
in Afghanistan. We deeply deplore the high number of 
civilian lives lost due to cowardly terrorist attacks and 
incessant  fighting.  The  recent  attack  on  the  German 
Consulate  in  Mazar-e-Sharif  is  but  one  of  many  in  a 
long list of incidents. Our thoughts are with those who 
perished and were injured in that horrific attack. I would 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  explicitly  thank  our 
NATO partners and the Afghan National Defence and 
Security Forces for the courageous help they provided 
to fend off the terrorist attackers and protect our staff. 
In that context, I would like to welcome the outcome of 
the  NATO  Summit,  held  in  Warsaw,  where  important 
contributions  and  further  training  for  the  Afghan 
National Defence and Security Forces were pledged.
More than 800,000 Afghan refugees have returned 
to Afghanistan from neighbouring countries during the 
course of this year. This poses a great challenge for the 
Afghan  Government  and  the  receiving  communities. 
This  year,  we  have  introduced  a  new  chapter  on 
refugees  to  the  draft  resolution  in  order  to  highlight 
this  important  humanitarian  problem.  I  would  like 
to  commend  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  the  International 
Organization  for  Migration  for  their  assistance  to  the 
returning  refugees  and  call  upon  all  Member  States 
to  support  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  in  its 
efforts  to  ensure  a  sustainable  reintegration  of  those 
returning refugees.
At the same time, many Afghans are still arriving 
in  Europe —  young,  educated  citizens  who  are  badly 
needed for the reconstruction and economic development 
of Afghanistan. Halting and reversing that trend is in 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-38971 (E)
*1638971*
A/71/PV.47 
17/11/2016
the interest of all of us, but especially of Afghanistan 
itself. The Afghan Government has to provide its people 
with  the  prospect  of  a  future  in  their  own  country. 
We  therefore  strongly  encourage  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan  to  make  further  progress  on  its  reform 
agenda.  At  the  Conference  on  Afghanistan,  held  in 
October  in  Brussels,  the  international  community 
demonstrated  its  support  politically  and  financially 
in  an  unparalleled  way.  Now  it  is  up  to  the  Afghan 
Government to do its part.
The  implementation  of  political  and  economic 
reforms and the fight against corruption are of crucial 
importance.  We  welcome  the  establishment  of  the 
national  High  Council  on  Governance,  Justice  and 
Anti-Corruption  and  the  Anti-Corruption  Criminal 
Justice  Centre  and  look  forward  to  them  becoming 
fully  operational.  Moreover,  as  reflected  in  the  draft 
resolution,  preserving  and  consolidating  gains  in  the 
protection and promotion of human rights and the equal 
participation  of  all  members  of  society,  especially 
women, in all spheres of Afghan life remains critical.
We also noted that the list of regional development 
and  cooperation  initiatives  and  projects  mentioned  in 
this year’s draft resolution has increased substantially. 
Germany  wholeheartedly  encourages  greater  regional 
cooperation.  We  sincerely  hope  that  regional  States 
and organizations will assume greater responsibility in 
our joint efforts to support Afghanistan in the future. 
That also applies to an Afghan peace and reconciliation 
process,  which  remains  the  only  way  to  long-term 
stability in Afghanistan.
remain  committed 
In  conclusion,  let  me  assure  the  Assembly  that 
Germany  will 
to  supporting 
Afghanistan. We will continue our financial assistance 
and our support for the Afghan National Defence and 
Security  Forces  in  the  years  ahead,  in  line  with  our 
Brussels and Warsaw commitments.
Mr. Saikal (Afghanistan): It was 70 years ago, two 
days  from  today,  that  Afghanistan’s  flag  was  raised 
on  the  grounds  of  the  United  Nations  as  its  fifty-
second  Member.  Today,  I  am  pleased  to  stand  before 
the  Assembly  on  behalf  of  a  great  nation  with  the 
world’s support behind us for the unanimous adoption 
of draft resolution A/71/L.13, entitled “The situation in 
Afghanistan”. Allow me to thank all Member States for 
their support for the draft resolution.
I would like to express my gratitude to Ambassador 
Harald Braun, Counsellor Peter Neven and the rest of 
the team at the Permanent Mission of Germany for so 
ably  leading  negotiations  on  the  draft  resolution.  We 
are also thankful to the delegations who took part in the 
negotiations  in  a  constructive  spirit,  as  an  expression 
of their solidarity with and support for Afghanistan. In 
addition, I wish to thank the Member States that have 
sponsored  the  draft  resolution,  which  signifies  their 
continued support for a stable Afghanistan.
of 
resilience 
story 
Afghanistan’s 
and 
accomplishments  against  all  odds  —  despite  our 
ongoing struggle against illegalities and stagnation, in 
particular those crafted and imposed on us by regional 
orchestrators  of  violent  extremism  and  terrorism  —
should  be  a  source  of  hope  and  inspiration  for  those 
who  champion  the  shared  values  of  a  democratic  and 
free  society,  based  on  the  rule  of  law,  human  rights 
and  dignity  for  all.  However,  in  the  current  scenario 
of  violent  extremism  and  radicalism  threatening  our 
global  order,  unanimous  international  consensus  and 
support for Afghanistan are needed in the fight against 
global terrorism. We hope that through this resolution, 
Member States will be guided in addressing key issues 
facing Afghanistan.
To say that Afghanistan has achieved unprecedented 
progress  in  the  past  fifteen  years  while  faced  with 
enormous  challenges 
is  not  an  overstatement.  I 
witnessed this yet again during my visit to Kabul last 
week,  finding  a  more  vibrant  and  cleaner  city  with 
major improvements in waste management. Almost all 
Member States have been involved in some form in the 
reconstruction  and  development  of  Afghanistan  since 
2001.  The  giant  leap  forward  in  almost  all  sectors  of 
society  would  not  have  been  possible  without  their 
contribution.  The  Government  and  the  people  of 
Afghanistan  are  truly  grateful  for  this  support,  and 
we  look  forward  to  continuing  our  joint  partnership 
for prosperity and peace. We will do so on the basis of 
mutual commitments, under the Self-Reliance through 
Mutual Accountability Framework and the Afghanistan 
National  Peace  and  Development  Framework  agreed 
upon at the recently concluded Brussels Conference.
The outcome of last month’s Brussels Conference 
on Afghanistan was truly a milestone, as it revitalized 
the  essence  of  our  partnership  with  the  international 
community. The National Unity Government’s progress 
report on the benchmarks of the comprehensive reform 
agenda  laid  out  our  efforts  towards  a  democratic 
State.  We  will 
focused  on 
institutions,  developing  self-
strengthening  State 
remain  consistently 
2/29 
16-38971
17/11/2016 
A/71/PV.47
reliance,  and  crafting  social  services  to  serve  our 
people.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that  we  consolidate 
these  gains  as  Afghanistan  completes  its  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  embarks  on  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals.
attacked  the  German  Consulate  in  the  northern  city 
of  Mazar-e-Sharif,  where  six  civilians  were  killed 
and over a hundred injured. The recent attacks are the 
latest attempts by the terrorist handlers to undermine 
our stability.
Notwithstanding the transformational effects of our 
gains for the country, we have faced continued threats 
from violent extremism and terrorism. In 2016 we have 
witnessed  new  security  challenges  that  impinge  upon 
various levels of national, regional and global stability. 
Currently, multiple conflicts plague many nations with 
painful stories of suffering, displacement and exodus of 
refugees in search of safety. Foreign terrorist fighters 
are  on  the  move,  taking  advantage  of  negative  State 
rivalries and operating across regions to establish new 
footholds in various countries.
In Afghanistan, we have paid a heavy price at the 
forefront of the global struggle against terrorism. The 
year  2016  was  one  of  the  bloodiest  in  terms  of  both 
civilian  and  military  casualties.  We  faced  a  thinly 
disguised, undeclared war, when a neighbouring State, 
contrary to the Charter of the United Nations and the 
principle of good-neighbourly relations, used the proxy 
Taliban,  including  the  Haqqani  network,  Al-Qaida, 
Da’esh, and others, to orchestrate and conduct attacks 
with  the  aim  of  overrunning  a  number  of  provincial 
capitals and stoking the flames of disunity among the 
Afghans.  Those  who  seek  solace  in  their  intentions 
to  keep  Afghanistan  bleeding  must  remember  that 
such  actions  would  bleed  them  too  and  warrant 
international isolation.
The  export  of  foreign  terrorist  fighters,  including 
Da’esh  in  parts  of  Afghanistan,  remains  a  serious 
concern. Lately, they have sought to expand their brutal 
presence  into  northern  Afghanistan,  often  operating 
in tandem with the Taliban and other affiliate groups. 
Nevertheless,  I  am  pleased  to  report  that,  against 
enormous  odds,  our  national  security  forces  have 
heroically  confronted  this  myriad  of  interconnected 
extremist  groups  trained  elsewhere  and  exported  to 
Afghanistan. They have thwarted terrorist militia plans 
for the capture and control of territory in different parts 
of the country, repulsing successive attacks in various 
provinces, including Kunduz and Helmand.
Terrorist  militias  continue 
to  sustain  heavy 
losses,  whereupon  they  resort  to  desperate  attacks 
on  soft  targets,  including  aid  agencies,  educational 
institutions  and  civilian  premises.  Last  week  they 
In order to make our security forces more sustainable 
and  provide  them  with  everything  needed  to  face  the 
ever-evolving  terrorist  tactics,  we  require  continued 
support  from  the  international  community.  We  note 
with  gratitude  the  outcomes  of  the  NATO  Warsaw 
Summit, on the basis of which partner countries pledged 
new  commitments  for  training,  equipping,  financing 
and further enhancing the operational capacity of our 
security  forces  until  the  end  of  2020.  We  very  much 
welcome the decision to maintain the Resolute Support 
Mission beyond 2016. The pledges of renewed support 
have instilled renewed confidence in our armed forces.
A joint international response to combat terrorism 
can  succeed  only  if  the  world  addresses  the  key 
enablers  of 
terrorism.  Without  foreign  planning, 
safe  havens,  provision  of  training  and  weapons  and 
logistical  support,  groups  like  the  Taliban  would  not 
have the same destructive reach and could be addressed 
from  within  the  democratic  political  system  of  our 
country.  The  fact  that  rogue  elements  within  certain 
State  structures  facilitate  violent  extremist  activities 
is  hugely  problematic  and  contrary  to  the  relevant 
counter-terrorism  and  sanctions  regime  resolutions 
of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  resolutions  1373 
(2001), 1624 (2005), 2178 (2014), 2253 (2015) and 2255 
(2015).
A renewed three-tier approach to the United Nations 
counter-terrorism strategy is needed. At the level of our 
debates, we ought to address the question of the impact 
on  the  growth  of  terrorism  of  negative  State  rivalries 
and  State  use  of  violence  in  the  pursuit  of  political 
objectives. At the operational level, we need to enrich 
existing resolutions or adopt new resolutions to target 
the drivers of such policies within State structures. At 
the implementation level, the effective enforcement of 
the counter-terrorism resolutions and sanctions regimes 
equally on the Taliban, Al-Qaida and Da’esh, as well as 
on  Member  States  that  provide  political  and  military 
support to them, can have a significant impact on war 
and peace in Afghanistan.
President Ghani has asked for the timely inclusion 
of  select  Taliban  leaders  in  the  sanctions  list.  We 
welcome  the  recent  visit  of  the  Sanctions  Committee 
16-38971
3/29
A/71/PV.47 
17/11/2016
to  Afghanistan,  where  relevant  issues  were  discussed 
with the senior leadership. We urge all Member States, 
in  particular  countries  accommodating  terrorists,  to 
actively strengthen mechanisms within State structures 
for  the  proper  implementation  of  these  resolutions. 
There is an urgent need for increased and meaningful 
interaction  between 
the  United  Nations  counter-
terrorism bodies and Afghan security agencies.
The  National  Unity  Government  has  made 
unremitting  efforts  to  advance  the  cause  of  durable 
peace. This has been a key issue for both President Ghani 
and  Chief  Executive  Abdullah.  We  are  determined  to 
bring peace to Afghanistan, with or without the support 
of those who have thus far failed to proactively support 
this  process.  The  recently  signed  peace  agreement 
between the Afghan Government and the leadership of 
Hizb-e Islami marks our strong commitment to peace 
and the fact that we are willing to take hard decisions 
for it.
The  implementation  process  has  already  begun 
with  the  cessation  of  active  hostilities  between  our 
national security forces and those loyal to this group, 
when  circumstances  permit.  We  hope  this  agreement 
can serve as a model for those Taliban who are ready 
to give up violence and embrace peace. We believe that 
the Quadrilateral Coordination Group — comprised of 
Afghanistan, Pakistan, China and the United States of 
America — can still be a useful platform to facilitate 
dialogue with the Taliban. Yet achieving any degree of 
progress  requires  clear  and  decisive  action  to  honour 
commitments  within  the  framework  of  the  Group’s 
road map.
The  National  Unity  Government’s  efforts 
to 
promote  regional  economic  cooperation  through  the 
pursuit  of  common  regional  objectives  and  existing 
processes,  organizations  and  programmes  are  moving 
forward.  Some  of  the  recently  concluded  or  currently 
ongoing  regional  projects  are  the  Chabahar  Port,  the 
Lapiz Lazuli Corridor, the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-
Pakistan-India  Natural  Gas  Pipeline  Project  and  the 
Central  Asia-South  Asia  power  project,  as  well  as 
the  railway  line  between  China  and  Afghanistan. 
The  Afghan-led  Regional  Economic  Cooperation 
Conference  on  Afghanistan  and  the  Heart  of  Asia-
Istanbul Process are working to strengthen connectivity 
and increase trade and transit for the benefit of regional 
prosperity.  The  region  sees  in  Afghanistan  a  country 
that  is  located  in  the  heart  of  Asia  with  the  potential 
to develop as a key player in strengthening economic 
ties and cultivating regional connections. Once again, 
we would like to reiterate that we are willing to work 
with  all  neighbouring  countries  to  achieve  a  shared 
prosperous future for all.
Good  governance  has  paved  the  way  for  notable 
strides  across  social  indicators.  We  have  created  a 
culture  of  free  speech  and  tolerance  for  alternative 
opinions. The 2016 World Press Freedom Index ranks 
Afghanistan  fourth  best  among  the  13  countries  of 
South and Central Asia.
Afghanistan  is  committed  to  the  implementation 
of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), on women 
and  peace  and  security,  based  on  our  eight-year  plan 
of  action.  Women’s  empowerment  has  created  a  more 
equal  society,  with  women  taking  key  roles  in  State 
institutions  and  various  professional  fields.  Multiple 
women’s  protection  centres  for  survivors  of  domestic 
violence  and  children’s  protection  units  to  prevent 
recruitment  of  children  in  the  armed  forces  are 
functional. Respect for rule of law and promotion and 
protection  of  human  rights  for  all  are  key  values  in 
strengthening the development of our nation.
As  a  country  firmly  committed  to  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  Afghanistan 
is  a 
candidate for the Human Rights Council for the 2018-
2020 term. We look to the support of Member States for 
our candidacy. We can state with confidence that a vote 
for Afghanistan will be a vote to strengthen the human 
rights architecture worldwide.
By  strengthening  the  national  consensus  for  a 
viable  approach  to  reform  our  electoral  institutions, 
we  are  enhancing  the  credibility  and  transparency 
of  our  future  elections  and  the  democratic  process 
in  Afghanistan.  Recently,  the  Selection  Committee 
presented  a  list  of  candidates  to  the  President  from 
which a select group will be appointed to serve as new 
commissioners in the electoral bodies. Last week, the 
leadership of the National Unity Government convened 
a  consultative  meeting  with  a  broad  spectrum  of 
prominent  personalities  to  exchange  views  on  issues 
related  to  holding  future  elections.  Those  meetings 
demonstrate our efforts to enhance national unity and 
political stability.
The 
this  week, 
fight  against  corruption 
remains  our 
priority.  Earlier 
the  Anti-Corruption 
Criminal  Justice  Centre  for  the  first  time  held  two 
trials  that  were  open  to  the  public  and  monitored  by 
representatives of civil society, the media and national 
4/29 
16-38971
17/11/2016 
A/71/PV.47
and international observers. That further signifies the 
Government’s  commitment  to  prosecuting  corruption 
cases among senior officials. In our efforts to promote 
good  governance  at  all  levels,  we  have  also  pursued 
merit-based  appointments  to  achieve  more  effective, 
transparent and accountable institutions that are able to 
serve our people.
Countering the menace of the narcotics trade and 
breaking  down  the  nexus  of  criminality  and  drugs 
remain  crucial  objectives  for  us.  Increased  insecurity 
leads to a rise in opium production. In that regard, we 
are aiming to counter the challenge of illegal narcotics 
money, which is fuelling extremist activities, through 
our comprehensive Afghan National Drug Action Plan 
with the support of our international partners.
Due  to  a  shrinking  economy  and  increasing 
insecurity,  Afghanistan  is  still  one  of  the  largest 
source countries of refugees. That, along with 485,000 
internally  displaced  persons  in  2016,  remains  a  cause 
of  concern.  In  recent  months,  we  have  witnessed  the 
return of around half a million refugees from Pakistan. 
We  urge  the  Pakistani  Government  to  have  a  more 
meaningful  dialogue  with  us  on  that  issue.  Given  the 
magnitude of the problem, we invite the international 
community to support the Office for the Coordination 
of  Humanitarian  Affairs  flash  appeal  to  provide  for 
the  immediate  needs  of  this  population.  Currently, 
the  Government  is  working  on  a  long-term  vision  for 
the returnees.
The joint sacrifices made by Afghanistan and our 
international partners over the past 15 years have brought 
a  profound  change  in  the  lives  of  ordinary  Afghans. 
Together, we have created a situation whereby Afghans 
look  to  the  future  with  a  great  degree  of  confidence, 
knowing their country will never again be taken back 
to  the  past,  when  tyranny,  extremist  ideology  and 
darkness prevailed over justice, democracy and rule of 
law. Today’s Afghanistan is among the most pluralistic 
societies  in  our  region,  and  slowly  but  surely,  we  are 
regaining  our  historic  place  as  a  hub  of  connectivity, 
flow of people and exchange of innovative ideas among 
diverse cultures and backgrounds.
the vision of a self-reliant and prosperous Afghanistan, 
one that serves its people and the world. As we move 
forward,  we  hope  that  we  can  continue  to  count  on 
international  support,  in  solidarity  with  the  heroic 
people of my country.
Mr.  Mahmadaminov  (Tajikistan):  Tajikistan  is 
pleased to be a sponsor of draft resolution A/71/L.13, 
which  we  hope  will  be  adopted  by  consensus,  as  in 
previous  years.  We  express  our  sincere  appreciation 
to the delegation of Germany for facilitating the draft 
resolution. It is encouraging that all States Members of 
the United Nations share the common view with regard 
to the importance of peace and stability in Afghanistan 
and  of  its  key  role  in  the  promotion  of  regional 
cooperation  and  integration.  There  is  no  doubt  that 
peace  and  stability  and  socioeconomic  rehabilitation 
in  Afghanistan  are  crucial  for  the  development  and 
prosperity of the entire region.
Tajikistan supports the efforts of Afghanistan and 
its  people  to  strengthen  and  reinforce  the  progress  in 
tackling  the  issues  of  the  transition  period,  including 
national dialogue and reconciliation. Tajikistan calls for 
the acceleration of targeted assistance to Afghanistan in 
economic  rehabilitation,  the  implementation  of  social 
programmes and the creation of jobs in the country.
the 
through  connecting 
The involvement of Afghanistan in the process of 
multifaceted  regional  cooperation  contributes  to  the 
success of the efforts of the international community. 
Tajikistan  has  been  engaged  in  the  rehabilitation 
of  social  and  economic  spheres  and  infrastructure 
in  Afghanistan 
transport 
arteries  of  our  countries  to  create  an  energy  bridge, 
the  Central  Asia  South  Asia  Electricity  Transmission 
and  Trade  Project  (CASA-1000),  providing  essential 
commodities and training specialists. The construction 
of  the  CASA-1000  electricity  transmission  line  has 
been  launched  recently.  CASA-1000,  which  will  be 
implemented jointly with the Kyrgyzstan, Afghanistan 
and  Pakistan  and  development  partners,  will  provide 
an energy connection between Central Asia and South 
Asia and will contribute to the further development of 
both regions.
Looking ahead, we are confident in our ability to 
continue to solidify the gains made in a wide array of 
spheres.  Nevertheless,  we  also  realize  the  road  ahead 
is not devoid of difficulties. In that light, we urge our 
friends  and  international  partners  to  stay  the  course 
with fortitude and determination in the quest to realize 
Another  important  direction  of  our  efforts  is 
towards  the  creation  of  a  favourable  environment  for 
the  wide  use  of  the  transit  potential  in  Central  Asian 
countries,  including  Afghanistan.  In  this  context, 
Tajikistan  believes  that  the  establishment  of  a  legal 
basis  and  the  necessary  infrastructure  for  the  free 
16-38971
5/29
A/71/PV.47 
17/11/2016
movement  of  goods,  services  and  investment  in  the 
region are crucial. We therefore consider it important 
to  sign  the  relevant  documents  on  the  utilization  and 
construction of regional framework projects, including 
the  Trade  and  Transit  Agreement  between  Tajikistan, 
Afghanistan  and  Pakistan  and  the  construction  of  the 
Tajikistan-Afghanistan-Turkmenistan railway.
By  implementing  national  and  regional  projects 
on  energy,  transport  and  the  establishment  of  free 
economic  zones  on  the  border  with  Afghanistan, 
Tajikistan is helping to engage Afghanistan in regional 
economic integration. These projects are aimed at job 
creation, poverty eradication and ensuring a favourable 
environment  for  development.  The  Government  of 
Tajikistan will continue its efforts to further strengthen 
cooperation  with  the  Government  of  Afghanistan 
and  with  international  partners  to  support  peace, 
stability  and  socioeconomic  development 
in  our 
neighbouring country.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  give 
the floor to the observer of the European Union.
Mr. Vale de Almeida (European Union): I have the 
honour  of  speaking  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union 
(EU)  and  its  member  States.  The  following  countries 
align  themselves  with  this  statement:  the  candidate 
countries the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 
Montenegro,  Serbia  and  Albania;  the  country  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidate Bosnia and Herzegovina; as well as Ukraine, 
the Republic of Moldova, Armenia and Georgia.
I would like to thank the Permanent Representative 
of  Afghanistan  for  his  statement.  I  also  thank  all 
delegations that have participated in the consultations 
on  draft  resolution  A/71/L.13,  and  particularly  the 
German team for so ably facilitating the negotiations. 
We  are  looking  forward  to  once  again  adopting  the 
draft resolution by consensus.
Afghanistan  has  made  considerable  political, 
security,  economic  and  developmental  progress  over 
the  past  decade.  The  General  Assembly  resolution 
highlights  many  of  those  advances,  for  which  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  and  the  Afghan  people 
deserve much credit. Nevertheless, the gains made are 
fragile and major challenges remain.
Last  month, 
the  Brussels  Conference  on 
Afghanistan  was  successfully  concluded.  The  EU 
and  its  member  States  would  like  to  thank  the  high-
level  representatives  of  the  75  partner  countries 
and  26  international  organizations  —  including  the 
representatives of a number of United Nations system 
organizations,  particularly  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  —  who  all  came  to  Brussels  and  helped  to 
make the Conference a success. 
First,  it  was  a  success  in  financial  terms:  the 
international  community  pledged  $15.2  billion  in 
support of Afghanistan’s development priorities for the 
period  2017-2020.  Showing  its  sustained  commitment 
towards  Afghanistan,  the  European  Union  as  a  whole 
pledged €5 billion. These figures surpassed expectations 
and show the continued engagement of the international 
community  in  Afghanistan,  which  is  based  on  the 
driving principle of mutual accountability between the 
Afghan Government and international donors.
Secondly, the Brussels Conference was a political 
success, as it gave a clear sign of support to the National 
Unity  Government  to  continue  its  reform  path.  That 
includes  electoral  reforms,  administrative  reform, 
economy and governance, human rights and the rights 
of women and children and the fight against corruption. 
To  that  end,  cooperation  among  all  Afghan  political 
actors is essential.
The  Brussels  Conference  side  event,  under  the 
theme “Empowered Women, Prosperous Afghanistan”, 
signalled the strong priority attached to the protection 
and  empowerment  of  women  by 
the  Afghan 
Government, the EU and the international community. 
The European Union welcomes the commitment of the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  to  achieving  the  full  and 
equal participation of women in political life and in all 
Afghan institutions. We encourage the Government of 
Afghanistan to increase efforts to finance and put into 
action the national action plan for the implementation 
of  Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000).  We  must 
protect  the  gains  made  by  Afghan  women,  as  their 
continued  active  involvement  at  all  levels  of  Afghan 
society  and  in  the  negotiations  on  the  future  of  their 
country remains a priority for the European Union.
We  also  welcome  the  commitment  of  the  Afghan 
Government  to  fully  implementing  the  action  plan  to 
end  and  prevent  the  recruitment  and  use  of  children 
and the road map towards compliance, and the progress 
made.  We  encourage  the  Government  of  Afghanistan 
to  continue  its  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
towards  full  implementation,  with  the  support  of  the 
country task force on monitoring and reporting.
6/29 
16-38971
17/11/2016 
A/71/PV.47
investments  and 
On behalf of the European Union and its member 
States, I would like to reiterate that joint State-building 
and  development  efforts 
in  Afghanistan  can  be 
sustained only if they are based on reinforced regional 
cooperation.  Significant 
further 
cooperation  are  needed  to  improve  connectivity  in 
the  region  and  unlock  growth  potential  that  would 
benefit Afghanistan and the region as a whole. Besides 
economic  development, 
security  and  migration 
issues  are  also  to  be  dealt  with  through  a  regional 
approach, and a basis for common regional support for 
Afghanistan must be found. The Brussels Conference 
on  Afghanistan  confirmed  a  strong  interest  from  the 
international  community  in  supporting  Afghanistan 
and its neighbouring countries in this endeavour.
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  undeterred 
willingness of the Afghan Government to engage with 
all armed groups in a political process. The only way 
to find a durable end to the conflict in Afghanistan is 
through a lasting political settlement. In order to reach 
a peace settlement, the EU remains fully committed to 
supporting  an  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-owned  peace 
process  that  represents  all  Afghan  citizens  and  their 
legitimate  interests,  preserves  Afghanistan’s  unity, 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  and  upholds  the 
equal  rights  of  all  Afghans  under  the  Constitution 
of  Afghanistan.  The  EU  welcomes  all  initiatives  to 
create  a  environment  conducive  to  such  a  process, 
particularly  the  efforts  undertaken  by  the  Afghan 
Government, and calls on all parties to engage in such 
a process.
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  adoption  of 
the  Afghanistan  National  Peace  and  Development 
Framework  and  the  Self-Reliance  through  Mutual 
Accountability  Framework.  Those  Frameworks  pave 
the way for much-needed tangible progress in terms of 
poverty  reduction  and  the  provision  of  basic  services 
and  public  goods  to  Afghan  citizens.  To  that  end, 
specific  actions  and  inclusive  reform  approaches  are 
required in sectors such as agriculture, infrastructure, 
and rural and urban development, as envisioned in the 
new national priority programmes.
the  priority 
the  Afghan 
Government gives to tackling corruption, which remains 
a  major  obstacle  to  development  and  stability.  In  that 
connection,  we  welcome  the  establishment  of  a  High 
Council  on  Governance,  Justice  and  Anti-Corruption, 
the  Anti-Corruption  Criminal  Justice  Centre  and  the 
National Procurement Commission. 
We  welcome 
that 
We  also  welcome  the  efforts  carried  out  by 
the  Government,  together  with  donors  and  United 
Nations  agencies  and  coordinated  by  the  United 
Nations Mine Action Service, in demining the Afghan 
territory.  During  the  past  decade,  the  EU  contributed 
over  €60  million  to  mine  action  in  Afghanistan. 
We  encourage  the  Government,  in  partnership  with 
the  international  community,  to  continue  pursuing 
the  goal  of  a  mine-free  Afghanistan.  Such  a  goal  is 
instrumental  for  achieving,  inter  alia,  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals.
The EU is alarmed by the high number of civilian 
casualties  in  Afghanistan,  which  are  at  record  levels. 
Improving  security  remains  fundamental  for  stability 
and  development 
in  Afghanistan.  Therefore,  we 
welcome the commitments made at the NATO Warsaw 
Summit  in  July  in  support  of  the  Afghan  National 
Defence and Security Forces.
The  past  months  have  also  seen  a  new  spike  in 
migration from Afghanistan, while the country is also 
confronted  with  an  increasing  number  of  returnees, 
particularly from the neighbouring countries of Iran and 
Pakistan, but also from Europe and elsewhere. Support 
to sustainable reintegration of returnees is a key area 
of joint commitment under the New York Declaration 
for  Refugees  and  Migrants  (resolution  71/1),  adopted 
on 19 September. The Sustainable Development Goals 
support the promotion of safe, responsible and orderly 
migration  on  the  basis  of  well-managed  migration 
policies. Therefore, we strongly encourage the Afghan 
Government to show leadership in addressing the needs 
of displaced people who are returning to Afghanistan. 
important 
challenges linked to migration, the European Union and 
Afghanistan recently made a joint commitment, called 
“The Joint Way Forward”, to stepping up cooperation in 
addressing and preventing irregular migration, in full 
respect for international law, including the principle of 
non-refoulement.
to  address  some  of 
Wishing 
the 
However, the EU remains convinced that the best 
way to fight irregular migration is to provide Afghans, 
especially  younger  generations,  with  better  jobs  and 
economic  prospects  through  increased  economic  and 
financial  stability  in  Afghanistan.  Our  development 
cooperation  will  support  that  aspect  with  specific 
measures. We welcome the recent agreement between 
the Afghan Government and the International Monetary 
Fund on the Extended Credit Facility arrangement, which 
16-38971
7/29
A/71/PV.47 
17/11/2016
will participate in improving macroeconomic stability 
and management in the country. The economic report 
provided  for  the  Brussels  Conference  demonstrated 
that the fiscal and economic policies put in place by the 
Afghan Government are increasingly successful.
Finally,  insecurity  and  instability  are  also  fuelled 
by  the  illicit  cultivation,  production  and  trafficking 
of  narcotics,  which  remain  an  important  concern  for 
the  European  Union,  because  they  can  have  severe 
consequences  for  Afghanistan  —  high  consumption 
rates within the population that fuel the illicit economy, 
the  corruption  of  institutions  and  the  financing  of 
international terrorism. We encourage the Government 
of  Afghanistan  to  continue  to  pursue  a  balanced  and 
integrated  approach  within  the  framework  of  its 
National  Drug  Action  Plan,  with  the  full  support  of 
the international community and in close cooperation 
with  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime 
and  relevant  regional  frameworks,  such  as  the  Paris 
Pact initiative.
strongly 
committed 
to 
It  is  important  that  the  international  community 
remain 
accompanying 
Afghanistan towards long-term progress and stability. 
The  European  Union  will  continue  to  support  the 
transformation  process 
the 
emergence of a fully self-reliant, peaceful, democratic 
and prosperous society for the benefit of all Afghans.
to  promote 
in  order 
Ms. Sison (United States of America): I would like 
to start by thanking Germany for leading negotiations 
on this year’s draft resolution (A/71/L.13). I would also 
like  to  thank  Afghanistan  and  all  other  nations  that 
constructively engaged on the text.
The  United  States  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor  this 
year’s draft resolution on the situation in Afghanistan. 
The draft recognizes that while Afghanistan continues 
to  face  grave  security,  political  and  development 
challenges, the commitment of the Afghan Government 
and the international community to building a secure, 
prosperous  and  democratic  Afghanistan 
firm 
and unyielding.
is 
The past year has not been an easy one. The Taliban 
and  other  armed  groups  have  conducted  attacks  on 
provincial capitals, university students and diplomatic 
missions,  including  last  week’s  attack  on  the  German 
Consulate  in  Mazar-e-Sharif  and  on  the  Resolute 
Support  Mission  base  in  Bagram.  They  have  targeted 
citizens,  government  leaders,  humanitarian  workers 
and  international  partners  in  a  cynical  but  ultimately 
unsuccessful  effort  to  discourage  those  who  seek  to 
build a better life for all Afghans. In the face of such 
acts, we commend the bravery of the Afghan security 
forces,  which  are  effectively  responding  to  Taliban 
attacks and denying them major population centres and 
critical infrastructure. 
The United States continues to believe that the only 
way to end the conflict, enable a responsible drawdown 
of  international  troops  and  establish  the  conditions 
for  stability  in  Afghanistan  is  through  a  peace  and 
reconciliation process between the Aghan Government 
and the Taliban. The United States reaffirms its support 
for  the  security  and  development  of  Aghanistan. 
We  joined  allies  and  partners  in  demonstrating  our 
strong,  continued  support  for  Afghanistan  and  the 
Afghan  National  Defence  and  Security  Forces  at 
the  NATO  Warsaw  Summit  in  July  with  pledges  of 
renewed assistance through 2020 and a commitment to 
sustaining  NATO’s  training,  advisory  and  assistance 
Resolute Support Mission beyond 2016.
In October, the international community reaffirmed 
its  partnership  with  the  Afghan  Government  through 
mutual  commitments  of  financial  assistance  and 
accountability  measures  under 
the  Self-Reliance 
through  Mutual  Accountability  Framework.  We  also 
recognize  the  importance  of  stability  and  security  in 
Afghanistan for the stability and security in the region. 
We  encourage  Afghanistan’s  friends  and  neighbours 
to  support  the  Afghan  Government  and  its  efforts  to 
bring  peace,  stability  and  prosperity  to  Afghanistan, 
and  we  welcome  regional  development  initiatives  and 
other  efforts  to  advance  regional  cooperation  and 
economic integration.
As the international community has demonstrated 
a  commitment  to  Afghanistan’s  future,  we  look  to 
Afghanistan’s  Government  to  continue  its  efforts  to 
combat  corruption,  protect  human  rights,  establish 
effective  State  services  and  prepare  the  legal  and 
administrative  framework  necessary  for  democratic 
national  elections.  In  this  regard,  we  welcome  the 
commitments made by the Afghan Government under 
the  Self-Reliance 
through  Mutual  Accountability 
Framework.  We  stand  ready  to  work  with  President 
Ghani,  Chief  Executive  Abdullah, 
the  Afghan 
Government and the Afghan people to advance security, 
political  stability,  electoral  reform  and  accountable 
governance in the coming years.
8/29 
16-38971
17/11/2016 
A/71/PV.47
Mr.  Liu  Jieyi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  China 
supports the adoption by consensus of draft resolution 
А/71/L.13, on the situation in Afghanistan.
Afghanistan is in the early stages of its transformation 
decade,  and  China  commends  the  positive  results  of 
the  Afghan  National  Unity  Government’s  dedicated 
efforts  to  promote  socioeconomic  development  and 
reconciliation.  Afghanistan  still  faces  fundamental 
challenges in the political, economic and security areas. 
A united, stable, friendly and developing Afghanistan is 
in the common interest of the international community 
and the countries in the region. It is the hope of China 
that the international community will pay close attention 
to  the  Afghanistan  issue,  while  continuing  to  provide 
support  and  assistance  so  as  to  help  Afghanistan  to 
achieve stability and development.
First, we must help Afghanistan to embark on the 
road to self-owned development. Afghan affairs should 
ultimately be handled by the Afghan people themselves. 
The  international  community  should  pay  continued 
attention  to  Afghanistan  and  do  all  it  can  to  help  the 
Afghan  Government  and  people,  while  judiciously 
respecting  that  country’s  sovereignty,  independence 
and territorial integrity and respecting the right of the 
Afghan people to independently choose their political 
system  and  development  road.  China  commends  the 
formulation by the National Unity Government of the 
National Peace and Development Framework. It is our 
hope  that  the  political  factions  in  Afghanistan  will 
resolve  their  differences  through  dialogue  and  work 
together  for  the  noble  cause  of  national  development 
on  the  basis  of  the  Framework.  The  international 
community  should  help 
the  Afghan  Government 
enhance its capacity-building in the light of the Afghan 
development strategy and its specific needs
Secondly, we must steadfastly promote the Afghan 
reconciliation process. Advancing the Afghan-led and 
Afghan-owned  inclusive  reconciliation  process  is  the 
only  way  to  achieve  lasting  peace  and  development 
in  the  country.  The  parties  concerned  in  Afghanistan 
should  give  priority  to  the  long-term  interests  of  the 
country and its people and play an active part in political 
reconciliation.  The  international  community  should 
provide impetus to the peace and reconciliation process 
in  Afghanistan.  China  supports  the  continued  work 
by  the  four-party  coordination  group  of  Afghanistan, 
Pakistan,  China  and  the  United  States,  pursuant 
to  United  Nations  resolutions,  to  assist  the  Afghan 
Government to achieving early talks with the Taliban.
Thirdly,  we  must  help  Afghanistan  improve  its 
security  environment.  The  Afghan  National  Defence 
and Security Forces shoulder the primary responsibility 
for maintaining peace, stability and security there. The 
international community should help the Forces build 
up  their  capacity  and  strengthen  the  country’s  ability 
to  take  over  its  own  national  defence  and  to  counter 
and  effectively  combat  terrorism,  transnational  crime 
and  drug 
trafficking.  Draft  resolution  А/71/L.13 
acknowledges  the  important  contributions  made  by 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization  (SCO)  and 
other  organizations  in  the  region  to  the  maintenance 
of  Afghan  security  and  stability.  It  is  our  hope  that 
the  countries  of  the  region  will  continue  to  promote 
security cooperation with Afghanistan so as to provide 
the security environment for the national development 
of the country.
development.  The 
Fourthly, we must assist Afghanistan in promoting 
socioeconomic 
international 
community  should  fulfil  its  commitment  to  helping 
Afghanistan  in  its  recovery  and  capacity-building 
endeavours so that it will be able to achieve sustainable 
economic development. Afghanistan enjoys geopolitical 
and resource advantages, and its prospects for regional 
economic  cooperation  are  good.  Draft  resolution 
А/71/L.13 clearly sets out how the One Belt, One Road 
initiative will be of great importance to Afghanistan’s 
economic  development  and  regional  cooperation.  We 
take  discussing,  building  and  sharing  together  as  the 
building principle of the One Belt, One Road initiative; 
the spirits of the Silk Road of peaceful cooperation, open 
inclusiveness, mutual learning, and win-win objective 
based on mutual benefits as our guidance; and forging 
communities of common destinies and interests as our 
goal for cooperation. It is our hope that the countries 
concerned  will  be  fully  mobilized,  pursuant  to  the 
draft resolution,  to jointly move forward the One Belt, 
One  Road  initiative  to  strengthen  regional  economic 
cooperation  and 
interconnectivity,  provide  secure 
environment  for  the  One  Belt,  One  Road  initiative 
and  project  implementation,  and  help  Afghanistan  to 
integrate into regional development.
As  a  good  neighbour  and  friend  of  Afghanistan, 
China has always supported that country in its worthy 
endeavours  towards  reconstruction  and  development. 
China  will  continue 
in 
strengthening  its  security  capacity-building  and  in 
combating  terrorism  within  the  country,  and  we  will 
also  assist  the  SCO  in  its  efforts  towards  that  end. 
to  support  Afghanistan 
16-38971
9/29
A/71/PV.47 
17/11/2016
We  fully  support  the  integration  of  Afghanistan  into 
regional  cooperation.  We  will  work  with  Afghanistan 
to  implement  the  China-Afghan  Memorandum  of 
Understanding and the One Belt, One Road initiative, 
and strengthen our cooperation in the areas of economic, 
trade, energy and infrastructure development.
civilian casualties tells us, and Australia is concerned 
about  this  year’s  extremely  high  numbers  of  civilian 
casualties,  which  have  had  a  devastating  impact  on 
families and communities. Ordinary Afghans deserve 
better.  Much  also  remains  to  be  accomplished  in  the 
area of human rights.
China  stands  ready  to  join  with  the  international 
community 
to 
facilitate  the  early  achievement  of  peace,  stability 
and development in Afghanistan .
in  making  an  unremitting  effort 
Mr.  Yardley  (Australia):  This  year  has  seen  both 
opportunities and significant challenges for Afghanistan 
and  the  international  community  that  stands  with  it. 
We saw efforts towards an Afghan-led peace process, 
action towards elections for Afghans to exercise their 
democratic  rights,  and  successful  meetings  that  have 
secured  a  way  forward  for  international  support  for 
Afghanistan.  Security,  governance,  and  the  reform 
agenda remain key priorities.
The  National  Unity  Government,  under 
the 
leadership  of  President  Ghani  and  Chief  Executive 
Abdullah,  has  proved  resilient  even 
in  difficult 
circumstances.  The  Afghan  people  expect  upcoming 
elections to be held in a timely manner. We encourage 
the  Government 
to  meet 
those  expectations.  We  commend  the  advances  made 
so  far,  as  well  as  the  broader  progress  on  economic 
and  judicial  reform,  and  we  urge  for  perseverance  in 
continuing that trend. 
to  continue  working 
We  welcome  the  increasing  focus  on  expanding 
regional  cooperation  in  this  year’s  draft  resolution 
(A/71/L.13),  and  we  are  grateful  that  Afghanistan’s 
neighbours  have  affirmed 
to 
supporting  Afghanistan  in  the  future.  We  look  to 
those  regional  partners  to  fund  and  resource  their 
commitments accordingly.
their  commitments 
There can be no doubt about the challenges that lie 
ahead,  but  security  and  stability  in  Afghanistan  can 
be restored only through peace processes. We urge all 
the  parties  concerned,  including  the  Taliban,  to  seek 
further  progress  towards  peace  in  2017.  Insecurity 
and  conflict  continue  to  pervade  every  aspect  of  life 
and  governance  in  Afghanistan.  Law  and  order,  and 
effective  policing,  are  key  to  securing  public  trust. 
The  Afghan  National  Defence  and  Security  Forces 
have fought bravely and resolutely, but the insurgency 
remains defiant. The Afghan population still bears the 
brunt  of  this  war,  as  the  United  Nations  reporting  on 
At  major  international  meetings  in  Warsaw  and 
Brussels,  the  international  community’s  support  for 
Afghanistan’s security and development was affirmed, 
and  Australia  has  joined  its  international  partners  in 
recommitting to Afghanistan’s future through security 
sector  sustainment,  the  continuation  of  our  fourth 
largest  bilateral  aid  programme  and  the  extension  of 
our $80 million annual aid commitment until 2020. We 
continue to deploy Australian Defence Force personnel 
to 
the  NATO-led  Resolute  Support  Mission.  By 
providing  coordination,  assistance  and  reporting,  the 
contribution of the United Nations Assistance Mission 
in Afghanistan to the country and its people has been 
profound. We applaud its leadership and dedicated staff 
and thank them for their service.
Australia 
to 
remains  committed 
supporting 
Afghanistan in close partnership with a responsive and 
accountable  Afghan  Government.  We  would  like  to 
thank  our  partners  for  their  constructive  approach  to 
developing today’s draft resolution, and Germany and 
Afghanistan  for  their  key  roles  in  particular.  We  are 
pleased to once again be a sponsor of the resolution and 
look forward to its adoption today by consensus.
Mr.  Safronkov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): We are grateful to the German coordinators 
for their hard work in preparing the Assembly’s annual 
resolution on Afghanistan.
Afghanistan’s  complex  situation  continues 
to 
be  a  major  focus  for  the  international  community. 
The  increase  in  the  number  of  civilian  casualties  is  a 
serious concern. The spread of the influence of the so-
called Islamic State is particularly worrying, including 
its  efforts  to  absorb  other  armed  opposition  groups 
in  northern  parts  of  the  country  and  other  regions. 
We  believe  it  is  important  to  prevent  militants  from 
crossing into Afghanistan.
Russia  will  support  the  adoption  today  of  draft 
resolution A/71/L.13 by consensus. However, we note 
that  the  text  did  not  properly  characterize  Taliban 
and  Al-Qaida  operatives  in  Afghanistan  as  terrorists, 
despite the fact that the terrorist threat in the country 
has only grown in recent months. We believe that the 
10/29 
16-38971
17/11/2016 
A/71/PV.47
widely  used  term  “violent  extremism”  does  not  do 
justice  to  what  is  happening  in  Afghanistan  or  to  the 
actions of the Taliban, Al-Qaida and the Islamic State. 
The  only  correct  way  to  describe  their  evil  deeds 
is terrorism.
We  can  only  be  concerned  about  the  fourfold 
increase  in  the  land  area  devoted  to  drug  crops  in 
Afghanistan’s  previously  relatively  well-off  northern 
provinces,  noted  in  the  recent  Afghanistan  Opium 
Survey  2016  report  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on 
Drugs  and  Crime  (UNODC).  That  report  also  gives 
an  unbiased  indication  of  the  sharp,  tenfold  drop  in 
the volume of drug crops destroyed. We are all aware 
that the United Nations classifies the spread of Afghan 
opium as a threat to international peace and stability. 
In  that  context,  we  should  recall  that  beyond  the  risk 
it represents, drug production provides terrorists with 
significant financial support. They receive as much as 
40 per cent of their revenue from the drug trade, and 
the situation is only getting worse, bringing suffering 
both to Afghanistan itself and to many other countries. 
We  support  the  efforts  of  the  Afghan  authorities  to 
ramp up the fight against drug trafficking, and we urge 
the  foreign  military  presence  and  international  donor 
community to help them with this.
training 
to  conduct  free 
For its part, Russia is making a major contribution 
to the efforts to combat the production and distribution 
of  drugs  originating  in  Afghanistan.  In  particular, 
a  project  of  the  regional  UNODC  programme  for 
Afghanistan  and  its  neighbours  is  under  way.  We 
continue 
in  specialized 
Russian  higher-education  institutions  for  Afghan  law 
enforcement  agency  personnel,  including  narcotics 
squads.  A  joint  project  training  anti-drug  personnel 
from  Afghanistan,  Pakistan  and  the  Central  Asian 
countries — which until 2014 was carried out under the 
auspices of the NATO-Russia Council and was ended 
not by us but by NATO — is now being implemented 
by the Russian Federation jointly with UNODC, which 
is coordinating the project.
We  support  the  Afghan  Government’s  policies 
aimed at achieving national reconciliation. We are ready 
to help in promoting the negotiation process, including 
showing flexibility on questions related to the possible 
softening of the sanctions regime of Security Council 
resolution  1988  (2011)  vis-à-vis  the  Taliban  if  it  does 
not run counter to the national interests of the Afghan 
Government. 
Unfortunately, so far attempts to reconcile with the 
Taliban have not had positive results. We believe that 
the  primary  responsibility  for  the  currently  evolving 
situation with regard to security and the training of the 
Afghan security forces lies with the NATO States, which 
to date have not reached their stated objectives. Many of 
the other tasks that the International Security Assistance 
Force — which has now left Afghanistan — was dealing 
with also remain unresolved.
For  our  part,  we  are  ready  to  continue  to  work 
together  in  the  future  with  Afghanistan  through 
structures that have proved their efficacy, particularly 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization 
(SCO). 
Afghanistan’s cooperation with the Collective Security 
Treaty Organization (CSTO) also has good potential for 
improving  our  joint  counter-terrorism  and  anti-drug 
efforts.  The  constructive  roles  of  the  CSTO  and  SCO 
are clearly reflected in today’s draft resolution.
Ms.  Zahir  (Maldives):  My  delegation  wishes  to 
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive 
report on the situation in Afghanistan (A/71/616).
The Maldives notes with concern the mixed trends 
evident  in  recent  developments  in  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan. On the one hand, there has been progress 
on  the  political  front,  with  several  key  positions 
filled  and,  with  the  assistance  of  the  United  Nations, 
clear  steps  taken  to  ensure  the  successful  holding  in 
October of legislative and local elections. The Afghan 
Government  has  remained  committed  to  improving 
the  human  rights  situation,  particularly  with  regard 
to women and children. It has followed through on its 
words with concrete actions, and its continued efforts 
in that area are encouraging.
We  are,  however,  faced  with  the  bleak  truth  that, 
over  the  past  12  months,  the  situation  in  Afghanistan 
has  been  marked  by  critical  and  worrying  incidents, 
especially on the security front. The number of attacks 
by the Taliban and other armed groups is at its highest 
level  since  2001,  and  casualties  among  both  security 
forces and civilians have increased. This comes as the 
Afghan  Government’s  efforts  to  engage  the  Taliban 
in  talks  have  stalled  amid  uncertainty  and  internal 
leadership struggles within the Taliban. More troubling 
is the death toll of civilians and the effect these problems 
have on innocent people.
The persistent long-term weakness of Afghanistan’s 
social, political, and economic institutions has proved 
to be a fertile breeding ground for successive cycles of 
16-38971
11/29
A/71/PV.47 
17/11/2016
conflict. That cycle must be broken if a lasting solution 
is  to  be  found,  and  conditions  on  the  ground  that  are 
conducive  to  peace  must  be  created.  Among  other 
things,  therefore,  the  international  community  has  an 
important  role  to  play  in  giving  support  to  the  peace 
and reconciliation process, capacity-building measures, 
anti-corruption initiatives, development assistance and 
the  strengthening  of  civil  society.  By  fostering  trust, 
resilience and cohesion across society, the root drivers 
of conflict can be dealt with and the Afghan people can 
realize their long-held aspirations.
The situation in Afghanistan continues to have an 
impact  that  extends  far  beyond  its  borders.  We  need 
look  no  further  for  proof  of  that  than  at  the  simple 
fact that this item has been on the General Assembly’s 
agenda since its thirty-fifth session. Despite dramatic 
changes  in  the  specific  nature  of  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan over the past 36 years, it has remained of 
sufficient  concern  to  the  international  community  to 
have been considered by the Assembly in all but two of 
its sessions since 1980. We must therefore redouble our 
efforts to promote a culture of peace and cooperation 
in Afghanistan. In particular, as the Secretary-General 
notes in his report, the support of the countries of the 
region is essential in the longer term, both to boost the 
country’s economy and to address issues of peace and 
security.  The  Maldives  welcomes  the  possibility  of 
cooperation and collective efforts with regional partners 
for  peace  and  security  and  for  enhanced  economic 
cooperation  and  connectivity,  including  through  the 
South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation.
Recent  events  have  made  it  clear  that  much 
remains to be done if lasting peace is to be achieved in 
Afghanistan. At the core of that process are the Afghan 
people themselves, but they should not and cannot be 
alone in their efforts. The Maldives believes that it is 
only  with  the  broadest  possible  base  of  support  that 
peace can take firm root in Afghanistan, and it is the 
duty  of  the  international  community  to  support  the 
Afghan people in building a peaceful, prosperous and 
democratic nation.
Mr.  Van  Bohemen  (New  Zealand):  New  Zealand 
welcomes  the  forthcoming  adoption  later  today  of 
draft  resolution  A/71/L.13,  which  provides  a  clear 
reaffirmation  of 
international  community’s 
ongoing commitment to supporting peace and stability 
in Afghanistan.
the 
After more than 15 years of international assistance, 
it  is  wonderful  that  many  States  recommitted  to 
continuing  their  support  for  Afghanistan  until  2020 
at  the  Warsaw  and  Brussels  conferences  earlier  this 
year. They did so based on a shared recognition that an 
unstable  Afghanistan  means  instability  for  the  region 
and  for  the  wider  international  community,  and  that 
Afghanistan’s  stability  will  continue  to  require  the 
support  of  regional  and  international  partners  for  the 
foreseeable future.
However, despite the progress that has been made 
over  the  past  year,  Afghanistan  continues  to  struggle 
to make meaningful strides in tackling the key drivers 
of  instability.  The  National  Unity  Government  is  still 
hampered  by  uncertainty  and  infighting.  The  Afghan 
Parliament’s  recent  dismissal  of  seven  ministers  for 
what  appear  to  be  minor  administrative  failings  is 
cause for concern. We hope those actions do not further 
compromise the Government’s stability or its ability to 
tackle the many challenges the country faces.
After  we  saw  some  reasons  for  optimism  at  the 
end  of  last  year,  the  peace  and  reconciliation  process 
with  the  Taliban  appears  to  have  stalled.  The  Taliban 
continues  to  hold  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  at 
arm’s  length  while  it  wages  an  increasingly  bloody 
war  on  the  Government  and  the  people  and  on  the 
international  presence  in  the  country.  New  Zealand 
would  like  to  express  its  condolences  for  the  recent 
attacks  on  German,  American  and  Afghan  security 
officials  that  killed  and  injured  dozens.  Such  attacks, 
and the broader Taliban war, continue to be funded by 
profits  from  narcotics  trafficking  and  illicit  mining. 
Concerns have also been mounting about an impending 
humanitarian  crisis  in  eastern  Afghanistan,  with  the 
expected return of 1.5 million refugees from Pakistan 
in the coming months.
The  investment  of  the  international  community 
in  Afghanistan  will  be  effective  only  if  we  make 
strategic use of all the tools at our disposal to support 
peace,  stability  and  security.  Failure  to  do  so  would 
be to the detriment not only of Afghanistan but of the 
region and the international community more broadly. 
Beyond 
its  bilateral  commitments,  New  Zealand 
has  done  its  part  —  as  Chair  of  the  Security  Council 
Committee  established  pursuant  to  resolution  1988 
(2011), on sanctions,  and of the Council’s Committee 
pursuant  to  resolutions  1267  (1999),  1989  (2011)  and 
2253  (2015)  concerning  ISIL  (Da’esh),  Al-Qaida  and 
individuals,  groups,  undertakings  and 
associated 
12/29 
16-38971
17/11/2016 
A/71/PV.47
entities — to explore what more can be done through 
those mechanisms to support those goals.
I  just  returned  earlier  this  week  from  a  visit  to 
Afghanistan to discuss how the sanctions regimes could 
be utilized more effectively. I welcomed the commitment 
expressed  by  many  Afghan  interlocutors,  including 
President Ghani, to making greater use of the Taliban 
sanctions regime as a tool for supporting the peace and 
reconciliation  process.  I  hope  those  discussions  will 
lead to concrete steps, including further listing of the 
Taliban leadership and its supporters who benefit from 
ongoing criminality through narcotics trafficking and 
illicit mining. I also hope that we will see greater use 
of  the  exemption  procedures  in  the  sanctions  regime 
for  listed  persons  who  are  genuinely  engaged  in  the 
peace process.
New  Zealand  welcomes  the  peace  agreement 
reached  between 
the  Afghan  Government  and 
Gulbuddin Hekmatyar of Hezb-i-Islami. We hope it can 
serve  as  an  example  for  broader  peace  agreements  in 
future. It will be appropriate for the ISIL and Al-Qaida 
Sanctions  Committee  to  give  swift  consideration  to 
delisting  Gulbuddin  Hekmatyar  once  a  request  is 
received from the Afghan Government. 
However,  for  all  of  those  efforts  to  succeed, 
Afghanistan’s commitment must be matched by others 
in the region, particularly its immediate neighbours. We 
welcome the focus on enhancing regional cooperation 
in  today’s  draft  resolution.  The  very  nature  of  the 
challenges  that  Afghanistan  faces  demands  this.  The 
cross-border financial flows that fund insurgency and 
terrorism in Afghanistan, and the movement of foreign 
terrorist fighters, cannot be addressed by Afghanistan 
alone. That requires a collective effort, not least because 
it will bring a collective benefit. It should be clear to all 
that a destabilized Afghanistan is in no one’s interests.
Mr. Begeç (Turkey): At the outset, I would like to 
thank the Permanent Representative of Afghanistan for 
his statement.
today’s  draft  resolution  on 
We  welcome  the  successful  completion  of  the 
consultations  on 
the 
situation  in  Afghanistan  (A/71/L.13).  It  not  only 
underscores  the  progress  achieved  in  Afghanistan  so 
far, but also provides guidelines for the future efforts 
and  responsibilities  of  both  Afghanistan  and  the 
international  community.  We  look  forward  to  once 
again seeing the resolution adopted by consensus, and 
we are pleased to be one of its sponsors.
During  the  past  14  years,  Afghanistan  has  gone 
through  a  remarkable  transition  process  and  achieved 
considerable  progress  in  many  fields.  We  welcome 
the  dedication  and  determination  of  the  Afghan 
Government,  the  security  forces  and  the  people  in 
making  genuine  efforts  to  overcome  all  kinds  of 
challenges.  However, 
those  accomplishments  are 
still  reversible.  The  security  situation  is  fragile,  and 
Afghanistan  is  still  at  a  critical  juncture.  Therefore, 
the  international  community’s  continuing  support  to 
the  security  and  development  efforts  of  the  Afghan 
Government during the transformation decade is vital. 
We  should  bear  in  mind  that  Afghanistan  eventually 
needs to build its own capacity for the most part. In the 
meantime, we must extend all the help we can to assist 
the work of achieving a secure, stable and prosperous 
future for Afghanistan.
We  welcome 
The  stability  of  Afghanistan,  and  subsequently 
that  of  the  region,  will  depend  on  improved  security. 
Lasting peace in Afghanistan can be achieved only if 
the  peace  and  reconciliation  process  is  successfully 
concluded. With this in mind, we welcome the recent 
peace  agreement  between  the  representatives  of  the 
Afghan Government and Hezb-i Islami.
encourage 
the  Afghan 
Government’s  efforts  to  bring  the  reforms  to  life. 
We  believe 
implementation 
will  consolidate  the  political  and  social  cohesion 
in  the  country.  Turkey  will  continue  to  support  the 
Afghan Government as it implements its security and 
development agenda as long as our help is needed. We 
will continue our bilateral assistance in the security and 
development areas, and we will contribute to NATO’s 
efforts  as  a  framework  nation  within  the  Resolute 
Support Mission.
and 
that 
their  successful 
Turkey’s  official  development  assistance 
to 
Afghanistan  between  2002  and  2015  exceeded 
$962 million, representing its single largest development 
programme  ever  undertaken.  We  mainly  focus  on 
projects in the fields of education, health, infrastructure 
and  capacity-building  for  government  institutions. 
Furthermore,  at 
the  recent  Brussels  Conference 
on  Afghanistan,  Turkey  pledged  $150  million  for 
2018-2020,  which  will  be  used  on  a  project  basis  in 
coordination  with  the  Afghan  authorities.  We  believe 
that  a  genuine  dialogue  among  the  countries  of  the 
region  is  particularly  important  and  necessary.  In 
that regard, Turkey will also continue to contribute to 
16-38971
13/29
A/71/PV.47 
17/11/2016
Afghanistan through multilateral platforms, such as the 
Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  underline  that  the 
Afghan people deserve a better future. The international 
community’s  continued  commitment  will  strengthen 
their  hopes  in  that  regard.  It  is  our  joint  duty  to  help 
Afghanistan to reach that goal.
Mr.  Bessho  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  express  my 
gratitude for being able to take part in this important 
debate  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan,  and  I  wish  to 
extend my sincere appreciation to Ambassador Harald 
Braun  of  Germany  and  his  colleagues  for  skilfully 
guiding  consultations  on  draft  resolution  A/71/L.13, 
entitled  “The  Situation 
in  Afghanistan”,  which 
we support.
Improved 
security 
is 
Unfortunately,  I  must  begin  my  statement  by 
expressing  deep  concern  about  the  security  situation 
in Afghanistan. The United Nations has reported that 
there  were  2,324  security  incidents  in  October  and 
14  terrorist  attacks  in  Kabul.  Both  reflect  a  growing 
trend.  The  international  community  has  reiterated  its 
commitment  to  providing  sustained  financial  support 
to  the  Afghan  National  Defence  and  Security  Forces. 
Last  month  in  Brussels,  Japan  pledged  to  continue  to 
provide $130 million in security assistance per year for 
the next four years. We are aware of the ongoing efforts 
of  those  Forces  to  overcome  security  challenges,  and 
we do see some improvements. However, the situation 
on the ground overall is still deteriorating.
the  most 
important 
prerequisite for Afghanistan’s development. It is crucial 
that  we  see  progress  on  an  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-
owned peace process, together with significant security 
improvements.  Japan  calls  upon  President  Ghani  and 
Chief Executive Abdullah to cooperate closely in order 
to  strengthen  the  National  Unity  Government  and 
achieve reconciliation. The threat of violent extremism 
is  undermining 
stability  of 
Afghanistan. Undoubtedly, violent extremism is rooted 
in  and  exacerbated  by  weak  governance.  In  addition 
to international assistance, efforts by the Government 
on  national  reconciliation,  administrative  reform  and 
fiscal  consolidation  are  essential.  The  Self-Reliance 
through  Mutual  Accountability  Framework  for  2017-
2018 sets out clear targets for the Afghan Government, 
which we strongly urge it to achieve.
socioeconomic 
the 
Based  on  the  principle  of  mutual  accountability, 
Japan pledged at the Brussels Conference on Afghanistan 
to  continue  assistance  of  up  to  ¥40  billion  per  year 
for the next four years, starting in 2017. The Brussels 
Conference and today’s resolution demonstrate strong 
support  for  Afghanistan.  But  our  work  does  not  end 
here. We must focus on implementing our commitments. 
Our ultimate test will be whether Afghanistan achieves 
self-reliance to the point where donors no longer need 
to announce multi-year pledges.
Today’s 
resolution  contains  many 
initiatives 
highlighted  by  the  Government  and  neighbouring 
countries.  Regional  cooperation  and  connectivity 
will  provide  a  stronger  foundation  for  economic 
growth in Afghanistan. We eagerly await news on the 
implementation of those initiatives and commitments, 
and  look  forward  to  welcoming  progress  in  our 
resolution next year. 
In conclusion, let me say that Japan is committed 
to continuing to assist Afghanistan on its path towards 
self-reliance  and  mutually  beneficial  relations  with 
its neighbours.
Mr.  Bonser  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French):  Allow 
me  to  express  my  appreciation  for  the  opportunity 
to  address  the  General  Assembly.  Canada  thanks 
Germany  for  facilitating  the  draft  resolution  on  the 
the  situation  in  Afghanistan  (A/71/L.13),  and  for 
responding successfully to requests made last year for 
a more streamlined and succint resolution.
Allow  me  to  proudly  state  that  Canada  remains 
steadfast  in  its  desire  for  peace  and  security  in 
Afghanistan  and  throughout  the  world.  Canada  is 
committed to helping the Afghans create a sustainable 
future  and  a  country  that  is  well  governed,  respects 
human  rights  and  is  in  control  of  its  own  destiny. 
Canada  does  not  want  to  see  Afghanistan  be  a  haven 
for terrorism.
(spoke in English)
Those  are 
the  reasons  why  Canada  pledged 
$465  million  in  security  support  and  development 
assistance  to  Afghanistan  at  the  Warsaw  NATO 
Summit  in  July  2016  for  the  2017-2020  period, 
comprising $195 million for security and $270 million 
for development assistance.
Canada  fully  supports  an  Afghan-led  peace  and 
reconciliation  process  and  thanks  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan for its efforts to date, despite formidable 
challenges  over  the  past  year.  We  also  welcome  the 
constructive role neighbouring countries are offering to 
14/29 
16-38971
17/11/2016 
A/71/PV.47
play towards greater regional cooperation and peace and 
reconciliation in Afghanistan. We note with particular 
appreciation the important role regional actors can play 
and have played, alongside the Afghan Government and 
international organizations, in ensuring the safety and 
dignity of Afghan refugees. We welcome a continuation 
of  that  support  for  those  who  are  most  vulnerable, 
particularly women and girls.
It is important to emphasize that peace and security 
cannot be achieved without the active and substantive 
participation  of  all  members  of  society,  including 
women and girls. In that regard, we are pleased to see 
the following elements in the annual resolution on the 
situation in Afghanistan: commitments to achieving the 
full and equal participation of women in all spheres of 
Afghan life, acknowledgement of the vital role women 
play in the peace process, recognition of child protection 
and  social  development  needs,  and  the  importance 
placed on the rule of law and respect for human rights, 
including the rights of women and children in ongoing 
security  sector  reforms.  Canada,  for  its  part,  will 
continue  to  focus  on  our  Women’s  and  Girls’  Rights 
First approach in all of our health, education and human 
rights programming in Afghanistan.
Canada  supports  draft  resolution  A/71/L.13.  We 
stand with the Afghan people as they strive for a more 
secure  and  prosperous  future  and  will  continue  to 
support them in their pursuit of peace.
Mr.  Ružička  (Slovakia):  I  would  like  to  thank 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan  for  his 
statement. We all appreciate the work of the delegations 
that  have  contributed  to  the  text  of  the  annual  draft 
resolution  (A/71/L.13).  We  especially  appreciate  the 
effort  by  our  German  colleagues,  who  once  again 
facilitated negotiations in a highly professional manner.
Slovakia would like to align itself with the statement 
delivered earlier on behalf of the European Union (EU).
Six  weeks  ago,  leaders  of  both  Afghanistan 
and  the  international  community  met  in  Brussels 
at  the  conference  co-organized  by  the  EU  and  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan.  That  was  the  biggest 
international event held in Brussels during the Slovak 
presidency  of  the  Council  of  the  European  Union. 
The  Conference  has  been  widely  and  justly  praised 
as  successful.  In  terms  of  participation,  75  countries 
and  25  organizations  expressed  their  commitment 
to  supporting  the  people  of  Afghanistan.  In  terms  of 
financial  assistance,  $15.2  billion  have  been  pledged 
to  further  the  development  of  Afghanistan.  And  in 
terms  of  political  vision,  the  leaders  of  Afghanistan 
continue to work together in a constructive manner to 
maintain  an  inclusive  political  process.  Those  results 
have provided a solid foundation for the Afghan-led and 
Afghan-owned reform processes in the country. 
Given  the  momentum,  progress  in  the  peace 
restoration  and  reconciliation  process  in  Afghanistan 
is  more  important  than  ever  before.  We  encourage 
the  Administration  in  Kabul  to  further  engage  in  all 
activities  related  to  the  stabilization  of  Afghanistan, 
including  providing 
security,  good 
governance, transparency in decision-making, and the 
improvement  of  the  current  living  conditions  of  the 
Afghan  people,  with  special  regard  for  the  younger 
generations, women and girls.
safety  and 
Afghanistan,  which  receives  a  contribution  of 
€300,000 a year from Slovakia, continues to be one of 
three priority countries on which our development aid is 
concentrated. Furthermore, at the Brussels Conference, 
the  Minister  for  Foreign  and  European  Affairs  of  the 
Slovak  Republic,  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák,  announced  a 
one-off contribution of €500,000.
We  focus  our  assistance  strategy  primarily  on 
three priority areas: education, agriculture and health 
care.  It  is  not  by  chance  that  we  focus  our  policy  on 
those  areas,  since  we  firmly  believe  that  making 
tangible improvements in the quality of people’s lives 
contributes to the sustainable nature of development. 
Education is the integral and essential part of any 
development effort. The Slovak contribution is aimed at 
finalizing the construction of two schools, which will 
then  be  handed  to  the  Afghan  Government.  We  hope 
that  they  will  provide  employment  for  many  teachers 
and  places  of  study  for  hundreds  of  children.  We  are 
also putting our investment in education to good use by 
providing scholarships for foreign students.
In the area of agriculture, we would like to assist 
our partners in Afghanistan to fulfil their potential by 
producing enough food for internal consumption and, 
as was the case in the past, by profiting from the export 
of surplus production. 
Finally,  Slovak  assistance  focuses  on  access  to 
health care because, as enshrined in Goal 3 of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, ensuring healthy 
lives  and  promoting  well-being  for  all  at  all  ages  is 
essential to sustainable development.
16-38971
15/29
A/71/PV.47 
17/11/2016
Slovakia  is  proud  to  deliver  on  its  pledges,  since 
we  are  fully  aware  that  at  least  75  donors  can  make 
a  difference.  Our  efforts  will  not  materialize  without 
the  able  and  inclusive  leadership  of  our  Afghan 
partners.  We  are  looking  forward  to  working  with 
the Administration in Kabul. We are ready to further 
coordinate  our  activities  with  global  stakeholders 
and  regional  partners.  Here  in  New  York,  I  am 
personally  happy  to  continue  in  a  constructive  and 
productive dialogue with my colleague, the Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan,  His  Excellency 
Ambassador Mahmoud Saikal.
Mr.  Akbaruddin  (India):  It  is  often  said  that  the 
United  Nations  is  about  acting  together  to  defend  the 
dignity  intrinsic  to  all  human  beings  by  fostering 
sustainable peace, and that the objective at the United 
Nations is to work together in solidarity to assist other 
members of the human family in need. If that is indeed 
the  case,  then  today’s  annual  debate  on  the  situation 
in  Afghanistan  affords  us  an  opportunity  to  engage 
in introspection and take stock of whether our actions 
towards  a  valued  Member  State  and  its  brave  people 
conform to the lofty values and goals that we cherish 
and profess.
It is usual to begin statements on Afghanistan by 
highlighting the number of civilians, including women 
and children, who are killed in numerous attacks every 
day. There are, however, innumerable inspiring stories 
of common men and women of Afghanistan attempting 
to make a difference in the most trying circumstances. 
Those  stories  get  overtaken  by  news  of  death  and 
destruction. How many of us know that well-endowed 
Afghan lifters picked up eight medals in an international 
powerlifting championship held earlier this year? How 
many of us have heard of the innovation of two young 
Afghan brothers, Massoud and Mahmud Hassani, who 
have designed a low-cost drone, called Mine Kafon, to 
detect and destroy mines in their country? How many 
sports enthusiasts among us can point out that the only 
country to beat the eventual winners of the World T-20 
Cricket Championship this year was Afghanistan?
Such  stories  of  common  Afghans  trying  to  excel 
and bring joy and succour to their fellow countrymen 
and women are not reflected in numbers and percentage 
points. Each month, as the percentage of children killed 
and  of  attacks  on  civilians  and  schools  increases,  we 
witness  the  silencing  of  many  who,  had  they  lived, 
could  have  transformed  the  future  of  Afghanistan. 
We are therefore alarmed at the expansion of the war 
theatre  in  Afghanistan  and  the  significant  increase 
in  the  number  of  casualties  suffered  by  the  Afghan 
National Defence and Security Forces in recent months. 
We offer our sincere condolences to those affected by 
the loss of lives and destruction of property in several 
terrorist attacks in Afghanistan, in which hundreds of 
innocent people were killed and maimed, including the 
recent attacks on the United States airbase in Bagram 
and the German Consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif.
The commitments made at the Brussels Conference 
reflect  the  international  community’s  willingness  to 
pursue and broaden engagement with Afghanistan, per 
the needs of the Afghan people. At the Conference, India 
committed  a  sum  of  $1  billion  for  capacity-building 
in  education,  health,  agriculture,  skill  development, 
empowerment of women, energy, infrastructure and the 
strengthening of democratic institutions.
individuals 
Even  as  we  collectively  make  efforts  to  rebuild 
institutions, infrastructure and networks in Afghanistan 
through  cooperative  endeavours,  there  are  those  who 
aim  to  destroy  and  undermine  what  is  being  rebuilt. 
Groups  and 
that  perpetrate  violence 
against the people and the Government of Afghanistan 
operate from shadowlands entirely outside the fabric of 
international law. They must not be allowed safe havens 
and  sanctuaries  in  Afghanistan’s  neighbourhood.  Our 
collective  efforts  on  that  front  will  go  a  long  way  in 
promoting sustainable peace in Afghanistan.
Draft  resolution  A/71/L.13,  to  be  adopted  today, 
has very encouraging language on regional cooperation 
and  connectivity.  India  believes  in  and  is  committed 
to  working  with  Afghanistan  and  regional  countries 
on restoring a central role for Afghanistan as the land 
bridge of our region. It is with that goal in mind that 
India  chose  Amritsar  as  the  city  to  host  the  Heart  of 
Asia Ministerial Conference next month. Amritsar sits 
on one of Asia’s oldest and longest major routes, dating 
back to the second century B.C.E. Five centuries ago, 
the modern version of this road was built from Kabul 
to  Kolkata  by  the  Indo-Afghan  King  Sher  Shah  Suri. 
Even  today,  that  same  road  could  become  a  major 
artery  running  through  India,  across  Pakistan  and  on 
to  Afghanistan.  Those  with  narrow  mindsets  need  to 
open  their  hearts  and  allow  arterial  roads  to  be  used 
for Afghan trade to and from everywhere in the region.
The  security  challenges  faced  by  the  Afghan 
people  and  Government  have  not  receded.  We  note 
that  Afghanistan,  along  with  the  Resolute  Support 
16/29 
16-38971
17/11/2016 
A/71/PV.47
Mission, continues to make efforts to combat terrorism. 
However,  the  shadowy  supporters  of  some  of  the 
terrorist organizations — like the Taliban, the Haqqani 
Network,  the  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  the  Sham, 
and  Al-Qaida  and  its  designated  affiliates,  such  as 
Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and the Jaysh Muhammad — have 
not been deterred, as is reflected in the upward trend in 
the casualty tolls.
The  United  Nations  must  do  more  to  send  the 
right message. The inconsistent implementation of the 
sanctions  imposed  on  some  of  these  terrorist  outfits 
eats  away  at  the  authority  of  the  United  Nations  and 
needs to be addressed. The leader of the Taliban — a 
proscribed entity — must be designated as a terrorist 
individual.  The  international  community  is  impatient 
for action. Earlier this week, Afghan President Ashraf 
Ghani  himself  asked  a  delegation  of  the  Security 
Council  Sanctions  Committee  to  include  that  person, 
and others like him, in the list of terrorists. Unless the 
Security Council and its subordinate bodies are part of 
a  cohesive  response  to  global  terrorism,  they  run  the 
risk of becoming marginalized from the safeguarding 
of the most fundamental security priorities of Member 
States whose fabric is being torn asunder by terrorists.
Afghanistan’s  National  Unity  Government  has 
India’s  full  support  for  strengthening  its  defence 
capabilities. We believe that the international community 
should  stand  by  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Afghanistan  in  these  difficult  times.  We  believe  that 
the  path  to  reconciliation  in  Afghanistan  should  be 
through an Afghan-led and Afghan-owned process, in 
accordance with the internationally accepted red lines, 
reflecting the aspirations of the people of Afghanistan. 
At the same time, peace and the peace process cannot 
be indefinitely postponed. An immediate cessation of 
violence is necessary, and the international community 
must redouble its efforts for the peace and reconciliation 
process to deliver results and to do so quickly. We have 
to  preserve  and  consolidate  the  gains  made  by  the 
people of Afghanistan in the past decade and a half.
  We  applaud  the  role  of  the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  (UNAMA).  It 
is  providing  assistance  in  various  sectors,  even  as 
Afghanistan  is  witnessing  one  of  the  largest  influxes 
of  returning  refugees  and  its  security  challenges  are 
becoming  more  complex.  However,  UNAMA  must 
also  squarely  confront  the  difficulties  that  continue 
in  Afghanistan  on  account  of  the  safe  havens  and 
sanctuaries  that  terrorists  continue  to  enjoy  beyond 
Afghanistan’s borders.
I conclude by reiterating our best hopes and wishes 
for  the  people  of  Afghanistan  who  continue  to  strive 
for  excellence  in  their  cities  and  spaces,  ridden  with 
war and conflict. India places its full faith in the brave 
and resilient people of Afghanistan. We also lend our 
full  support  to  the  international  community’s  efforts, 
in  furtherance  of  the  positive  values  and  progressive 
agenda that it is being pursued in Afghanistan.
Ms.  Lodhi  (Pakistan):  We  commend  the  German 
delegation  for  its  efforts  in  skilfully  steering  the 
negotiations on the annual resolution on Afghanistan, 
which the General Assembly will soon adopt, and that 
Pakistan is co-sponsoring.
The annual General Assembly resolution continues 
to  be  a  signal  and  embodiment  of  the  support  of  the 
international community for the people and Government 
of  Afghanistan.  We  support  the  General  Assembly’s 
call on the Afghan Government to continue to work in 
a spirit of cooperation to achieve meaningful progress 
for  the  socioeconomic  development  of  their  country. 
Unity within the Afghan Government is indispensable 
for it to effectively address the multiple challenges the 
country faces.
The  situation  on  the  ground  today  is  a  troubling 
picture  of  increasing  insecurity,  escalating  violence, 
growing  civilian  casualties  and  rising  threats  to 
Afghanistan’s  political  and  economic  stability.  The 
presence of large numbers of terrorists, foreign terrorist 
fighters  and  militant  groups  in  the  vast  ungoverned 
areas  of  Afghanistan  presents  an  imposing  challenge 
to the long-term stability of Afghanistan. They pose a 
threat not only to Afghanistan but also to my country 
and, indeed, the entire region. Afghanistan could once 
again become a source of global terrorism, with grave 
implications for the region and the world.
Through  the  draft  resolution  (A/71/L.13)  that  we 
will  adopt  today  by  consensus,  we  will  unanimously 
and  unequivocally  affirm  that  there  is  no  military 
solution  to  the  prolonged  conflict  in  Afghanistan. 
Sustainable peace is only possible through a negotiated 
settlement.  That  has  been  Pakistan’s  consistent  and 
considered  position  throughout  the  long  war.  We  are 
gratified  that  it  is  now  confirmed  by  international 
consensus. A dialogue between the Afghan Government 
and  the  Afghan  Taliban  remains  the  only  way  to  end 
Afghanistan’s long night of suffering.
16-38971
17/29
A/71/PV.47 
17/11/2016
the 
While 
international  community  can  help 
in  promoting  the  peace  and  reconciliation  process, 
the  principal  responsibility  rests  with  the  Afghans 
themselves.  Progress  will  be  assured  only  when  the 
Afghan  parties  themselves  conclude  that  there  is  no 
military solution to the Afghan war, and work patiently 
and  persistently, 
through  a  meaningful  dialogue 
process,  to  achieve  reconciliation  and  peace  at  home. 
The recent agreement between the Afghan Government 
and the Hezb-i Islami group confirms that negotiations 
can succeed.
Pakistan is ready to assist in reviving the dialogue 
process with the Afghan Taliban, which we helped to 
facilitate in July 2015, at the express wish of President 
Ashraf Ghani. Unfortunately, that process subsequently 
stalled for reasons that are well known. However, this 
setback,  though  disappointing,  should  not  deter  us 
from renewing our efforts at reconciliation. Pakistan’s 
endeavours to that end can succeed only if the Afghan 
parties  themselves  are  willing  to  pursue  the  path  of 
dialogue with the unequivocal support and participation 
of  all  members  of  the  Quadrilateral  Coordination 
Group, which includes the United States and China.
For  over  35  years,  war  and  strife  in  Afghanistan 
have  produced  grave  consequences  for  my  country’s 
security, stability and economic development. Pakistan 
has been the major victim of terrorism originating from 
Afghanistan.  Through  the  determined  operations  of 
our armed forces, the clear commitment of our political 
leadership  and  the  popular  support  of  our  people, 
Pakistan  has  turned  the  tide  against  terrorism.  Our 
military operation against the terrorists, conducted by 
over 200,000 troops, has been as large and effective as 
any  in  the  world.  Our  comprehensive  national  action 
plan is being progressively implemented.
Unfortunately,  Pakistan’s  campaign  against  the 
terrorists is being threatened by external machinations. 
The  Tehrik-e-Taliban  Pakistan  (TTP)  and  its  leader, 
Mullah  Fazlullah,  continue  to  enjoy  safe  havens  in 
Afghanistan.  We  call  on  the  Afghan  Government  to 
take action against the TTP, deny them safe havens and 
end  their  agencies’  collusion  with  Pakistan’s  declared 
adversary to foment terrorism in Pakistan.
To  prevent  cross-border  attacks,  Pakistan  has 
consistently urged the Afghan Government to cooperate 
in  instituting  strict  controls  along  the  international 
border, to finalize standard operating procedures that 
address border management and to support Pakistan’s 
plan to fence vulnerable points on the border. I wish to 
reiterate Pakistan’s readiness to work with the Afghan 
Government 
the  high-level  consultation 
mechanism that was set up to address border issues.
through 
The  destinies  of  the  people  of  Pakistan  and 
Afghanistan are intertwined and cemented by age-old 
bonds  of  kinship,  faith  and  shared  history.  Pakistan 
has  offered  unprecedented  hospitality  and  support  to 
the brave Afghan people in the past several decades of 
their travail and tragedy provoked by foreign military 
interventions.  We  have  opened  our  hearts  and  homes 
to over 3 million Afghan refugees and sustained them 
for over 35 years with less than adequate support from 
the international community. We wish to see their safe, 
dignified and voluntary return to their homeland sooner 
rather than later.
Pakistan  will  continue  to  extend  economic  and 
other  assistance  to  promote  peace  and  development 
in  Afghanistan.  Our  pledge  of  financial  assistance  at 
the  recent  Brussels  Conference  is  but  one  indication 
of  our  support.  Despite  the  attacks  and  tensions  it 
faces  on  its  eastern  border,  Pakistan  has  decided  to 
attend  the  Heart  of  Asia  Conference  in  Amritsar  to 
confirm  its  commitment  to  Afghanistan’s  security 
and  development.  Unfortunately,  this  heart  of  Asia 
continues to bleed also because of the stratagems of the 
host of the forthcoming Conference.
Afghanistan and our region are at another crucial 
juncture,  which  may  require  strategic  adjustments. 
At  this  moment,  it  is  vital  to  objectively  evaluate  the 
fundamental  causes  for  the  deteriorating  security 
environment in Afghanistan, and the nature and sources 
of terrorism there and in the region. Today, there is need 
to  counter  the  terrorist  threat  from  the  Islamic  State 
in Iraq and the Sham (ISIS), from Al-Qaida and from 
terrorist  groups  like  the  TTP  that  are  associated  with 
these global terrorist movements. This is the challenge 
we must address.
Reconciliation  in  Afghanistan  is  being  frustrated 
by local and regional interests that are marginal to the 
global campaign against ISIS and Al-Qaida-sponsored 
terrorism.  These  local  interests  must  be  pressed  by 
the  international  community  in  a  concerted  way  to 
negotiate  peace  and  enable  us  all  to  defeat  the  global 
threat of terrorism.
Mr. Oyarzun Marchesi (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 
My delegation welcomes the fact that again, for another 
year,  the  resolution  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan 
18/29 
16-38971
17/11/2016 
A/71/PV.47
(A/71/L.13)  will    be  adopted  by  consensus.  I  wish  to 
acknowledge, at the outset, the splendid part played by 
the delegation of Germany and the statement delivered 
earlier by the Permanent Representative of Afghanistan, 
Ambassador Saikal.
consistent with the friendship between our two countries 
and  with  the  commitment  made  many  years  ago  to 
the  stabilization  and  transformation  of  Afghanistan. 
Spain’s commitment to Afghanistan is unwavering and 
long term and will continue in the coming years.
In a few weeks Afghanistan will enter the third year 
of the transformation decade. Much progress has been 
made,  and  the  situation  is  very  complex.  I  therefore 
encourage  Afghanistan  to  continue  to  intensify  the 
reforms  adopted,  and  especially  to  make  progress 
in  creating  an  environment  conducive  to  increased 
economic activity. I wish to single out the importance 
that the Afghan Government has been attaching to the 
fight  against  corruption,  which  is  absolutely  essential 
to ensuring development. I also want to underscore the 
achievements  made  with  regard  to  civil  liberties  and 
human rights, and women’s rights. One example is the 
National  Action  Plan  on  Women,  Peace  and  Security, 
which was recently adopted.
Spain  welcomes  the  success  of  the  Brussels 
Conference,  which  was  convened  on  5  October  and 
co-organized by Afghanistan and the European Union, 
and  the  substantial  financial  commitments  that  were 
made there.
Security  remains  a  fundamental  challenge  in 
Afghanistan. At the recent NATO Summit in Warsaw, the 
international community’s commitment to Afghanistan 
in this area was renewed until 2020. From this podium, 
I wish to pay tribute again to the efforts and sacrifices 
of  the  members  of  the  Afghan  National  Defence  and 
Security Forces. Spain — which in December, less than 
a year ago, suffered terrorist violence at first hand, with 
the  loss  of  lives  of  two  Spanish  citizens  in  an  attack 
on the Spanish Embassy in Kabul — will continue to 
support those efforts, as it has done to date, as well as 
those  of  the  Resolute  Support  Mission  of  assistance, 
advice and training for Afghan national forces.
The end of the conflict in Afghanistan necessarily 
involves  a  political  solution.  Spain  has  supported  and 
will  continue  to  support  Afghan-led  efforts  in  favour 
of peace and reconciliation. We trust that those efforts 
will soon bear fruit. 
In a few weeks, Spain will end another intense two-
year period of service to the international community 
as an elected member of the Security Council. During 
this  period,  my  country  has  had  the  responsibility 
and  honour  of  acting  as  penholder  on  Afghanistan. 
In  assuming  that  responsibility,  we  were  but  being 
Mr. Pecsteen de Buytswerve (Belgium) (spoke in 
French): I associate myself with the statement delivered 
earlier by the observer of the European Union, 
I thank the Permanent Mission of Germany for its 
remarkable facilitation work, thanks to which we are in 
a position today to adopt draft resolution A/71/L.13, on 
Afghanistan, by consensus. This adoption by consensus 
is certainly not trivial. It attests to the solidarity of the 
entire  international  community  with  Afghanistan  and 
its people.
has 
come 
a 
long  way 
Afghanistan 
in 
15  years —  a  difficult  road,  full  of  obstacles  but  also 
marked by considerable progress. Examples of this are 
the  peaceful  political  transition  two  years  ago,  the 
encouraging developments in primary school enrolment 
and the decrease in infant mortality. We must recognize 
the  progress  that  has  been  made,  even  if  it  does  not 
offset the remaining challenges.
We know that the general framework is still fragile. 
The security situation remains worrying. The series of 
deadly attacks, including those on the German Consulate 
in  Mazar-e-Sharif  and  the  Bagram  base,  attest  to  the 
precarious state of the security environment. Belgium 
condemns those terrorist attacks in the strongest terms, 
and through me extends its condolences to the families 
and relatives of the victims.
In  that  context,  the  support  of  the  international 
community  is  crucial.  The  continuous  presence  of 
the United Nations in the country, through the United 
Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), 
the renewed commitment of NATO at its Warsaw Summit 
on 8 and 9 July, and the confirmation at the 5 October 
Brussels Conference of ongoing international financing 
for Afghan development are concrete demonstrations of 
the type of support that Belgium endorses.
But we also know that the help of the international 
community,  while  crucial,  cannot  by  itself  bring 
peace.  That  is  why  we  encourage  every  effort  aimed 
at promoting the emergence of a peace process led by 
Afghans for Afghans. In that regard, we call on all active 
parties, with the cooperation of regional stakeholders, 
to  make  a  serious  commitment  to  dialogue  towards  a 
16-38971
19/29
A/71/PV.47 
17/11/2016
political  settlement  that  will  help  attain  lasting  peace 
and reconciliation.
victims.  Protecting  tomorrow’s  adults  is  preserving 
the future.
While  the  issues  of  security  and  reconciliation 
are  vital  to  the  rebuilding  of  the  country,  human 
development  is  another  decisive  factor  for  long-term 
stabilization.  Too  many  Afghans  continue  to  live  in 
destitution. Can we be surprised that, when faced with 
violence and poverty, so many of them, especially the 
youth, choose to emigrate? The best way to staunch the 
haemorrhaging of that life force is to offer the young 
generation  real  prospects  for  the  future.  Belgium,  for 
its part, contributes to the United Nations programme 
facilitating  the  lasting  reintegration  of  Afghans  into 
their country.
Achieving long-term stability will also depend on 
respect for human rights, particularly women’s rights. 
We  welcome  the  efforts  already  carried  out  by  the 
Afghan  Government  to  combat  all  forms  of  violence 
towards  women  and  girls.  However,  there  is  still  a 
considerable road to travel. In any event, women will 
have to play a key role in all aspects of social, economic 
and political life, as well as in the process of national 
reconciliation,  peacebuilding  and  transitional  justice. 
Belgium, for its part, seeks to partner with the Afghan 
Government  in  its  efforts  to  protect,  empower  and 
integrate  women,  and  contributes  financially  to  the 
UN-Women country-specific programme.
Another key issue for the future of the country is 
the  protection  of  children.  The  escalation  of  conflict 
disproportionately affects children. While we recognize 
the efforts of the Government in the framework of the 
action plan aimed at curbing the use and recruitment of 
children in the Afghan National Defnece and Security 
Forces,  we  encourage  ongoing  cooperation  with  the 
United Nations to fully implement the provisions of the 
plan and its road map. In that connection, we call for 
a general ban on child recruitment and for expanding 
child protection groups in national police recruitment 
centres throughout the country.
Finally,  the  rehabilitation  and  reintegration  of 
children  affected  by  armed  conflicts  through  suitable 
programmes is another fundamental factor in ensuring 
lasting  peace  and  security.  That  element  must  not  be 
neglected,  as  it  represents  a  preventive  instrument 
that  will  make  it  possible  break  the  vicious  cicrle  of 
violence.  Moreover,  we  welcome  all  efforts  towards 
demining and the neutralization of explosive remnants 
of war that, sadly, often claim children as their primary 
In  conclusion,  I  call  for  respect  for  international 
humanitarian law, particularly the protection of medical 
personnel and health facilities, as set forth in Security 
Council  resolution  2286  (2016),  adopted  on  3  May. 
That resolution also applies to Afghanistan, where the 
number of attacks on hospitals and health personnel is 
unfortunately on the rise. 
Belgium  reiterates  its  support  for  the  people  and 
Government  of  Afghanistan.  Today  and  tomorrow, 
it  will  stand  by  their  side  in  their  efforts  towards  the 
development and stabilization of their country.
Ms.  Murmokaitė  (Lithuania):  Let  me  start  by 
thanking  our  German  colleagues  for  their  excellent 
work, as usual, on the draft resolution on the situation 
in  Afghanistan  (A/71/L.13),  which  my  delegation  is 
happy to co-sponsor.
Lithuania  aligns 
statement 
delivered  earlier  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union, 
and in my national capacity I should like to make the 
following points.
itself  with 
the 
in  October.  It  renewed 
We  welcome  the  successful  conclusion  of  the 
Brussels  Conference 
the 
partnership  for  prosperity  and  peace  between  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  and  the  international 
community,  and  endorsed  the  Afghan  Government’s 
ambitious  reform  agenda.  Our  collective  commitment 
to  Afghanistan  over  the  next  four  years  will  be 
critical  to  ensuring  that  the  country  stays  on  the 
path  to  political  and  economic  stability.  The  unity  of 
Afghanistan’s  leadership  and  broad  consensus  are 
key  to  continuing  the  much-needed  reforms,  fighting 
corruptioning,  strengthening  the  protection  of  human 
rights,  reforming  the  electoral  process,  combating 
trafficking and tackling the problems of displacement.
The latest report from the United Nations Office on 
Drugs  and  Crime  and  the  Afghanistan  Opium  Survey 
2016 point to a reversal in efforts to tackle illicit drugs. 
Since 2015, estimated opium production has increased 
by  43  per  cent.  Given  the  impact  on  development, 
health,  and  security,  that  is  a  serious  cause  for  alarm 
and a rallying call for more vigorous action.
As  many  colleagues  have  mentioned,  building 
Afghanistan’s 
inclusive 
engagement of all actors, including women. Women are 
increasingly involved in decision-making. We welcome 
future  will 
require 
the 
20/29 
16-38971
17/11/2016 
A/71/PV.47
the  security  situation 
the progress achieved, including the reintroduction of 
a 25 per cent quota for women in Parliament. Progress, 
however, remains uneven, owing to limited institutional 
capacity  and 
in  Taliban-
controlled  areas,  as  well  as  the  lingering  culture  of 
impunity.  Women  activists  continue  to  be  threatened, 
targeted and killed. Physical punishment and even the 
executions  of  women  still  occur,  under  the  pretext  of 
so-called  moral  crimes.  Further  progress  is  obviously 
needed in the implementation of the national strategy 
on the elimination of violence against women and other 
relevant legislation, as well as the national action plan 
based on Security Council resolution 1325 (2000).
My  delegation  remains  concerned  about 
the 
situation faced by journalists and other media workers 
in Afghanistan. The country has made notable progress 
in  that  area,  yet  it  remains  on  the  list  of  the  10  most 
dangerous  countries  in  the  world  to  be  a  journalist. 
Over the past year, the Taliban has assailed journalists 
with  threats,  assaults,  bombings  and  kidnappings.  A 
local journalist was beheaded. Freedom of expression 
and  information  are  integral  parts  of  the  democracy 
that Afghanistan is building with such great sacrifice. 
We  encourage  the  Afghan  authorities  to  strengthen 
their  efforts  to  investigate  attacks  against  journalists 
and  related  media  workers  and  bring  the  perpetrators 
to justice.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  peace  agreement 
signed by the Afghan Government and the High Peace 
Council with Hezb-i Islami Gulbuddin on 26 September 
and supports its efforts to engage with all armed groups 
without  preconditions.  At  the  same  time,  as  other 
delegations  have  noted,  the  security  situation  in  the 
country continues to be worrying. Last year saw 11,000 
civilian  casualties,  and  the  number  is  expected  to  be 
higher this year. One in every four victims was a child. 
In the first eight months of 2016 alone, Afghan forces 
saw more than 5,500 of their own killed. Only recently, 
within  the  span  of  a  few  weeks  the  Taliban  attacked 
the  German  Consulate  in  Mazar-e-Sharif,  killing  at 
least  4  and  wounding  120;  the  largest  United  States 
military base in Afghanistan was attacked; a magnetic 
sticky  bomb  exploded  under  a  vehicle  in  Kabul  near 
the Ministry of Higher Education; and a suicide bomber 
struck  a  Government  vehicle  in  an  attack  claimed  by 
the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant. Our thoughts 
go out to all those who were affected by those and other 
attacks,  and  we  express  our  condolences  for  the  loss 
of life.
The  international  community’s  engagement  in 
assisting and supporting Afghanistan’s efforts to provide 
security for its people could not be more important at 
this  stage.  We  welcome  the  agreement  signed  at  the 
NATO Summit in Warsaw to extend the presence of the 
Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan beyond 2016. 
Together  with  its  allies,  Lithuania  continues  to 
assist Afghanistan in producing professionally trained 
and  equipped  defence  and  security  forces.  This  year, 
we  contributed  $500,000  to  the  Afghanistan  National 
Army  Trust  Fund  and  intend  to  continue  our  support 
to  the  Afghan  National  Army.  Our  military  staff 
is  providing  assistance  within  the  framework  of 
the  Resolute  Support  Mission  in  Kabul  and  Herat. 
Lithuania welcomes the European Union’s commitment 
to supporting civilian policing in Afghanistan beyond 
the completion of the European Union Police Mission 
in Afghanistan in 2016.
A stable, peaceful, and prosperous Afghanistan is 
a shared priority and interest. Lithuania stands ready to 
continue supporting the efforts of the Afghan people to 
achieve that goal.
Mrs.  Kanchaveli  (Georgia):  Georgia  aligns  itself 
with  the  statement  made  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union  earlier  on  today’s  topic,  and  I  would  like  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  make  a  few  remarks  in  my 
national capacity.
At the outset, allow me to thank the other delegations 
and the delegation of Germany for once again facilitating 
negotiations on the draft resolution on the situation in 
Afghanistan  for  this  year  (A/71/L.13).  As  one  of  the 
sponsors of the draft resolution, Georgia looks forward 
to its adoption by consensus at this meeting.
Georgia is privileged to be among those countries 
that  help  Afghanistan  rebuild 
the  war-torn  and 
violence-plagued country. We remain committed to the 
development of Afghanistan as a sovereign, democratic, 
secure and stable State. In that context, we commend 
the efforts of the Government of Afghanistan aimed at 
establishing  a  secure  and  prosperous  country  that  the 
Afghan people highly deserve and is in the interest of 
all of us. The struggle of that brave nation for peace, 
stability  and  unity  can  leave  no  one  indifferent.  It  is 
with particular pride that Georgia, despite its small size 
and the challenges to its own sovereignty and territorial 
integrity,  has  contributed  for  more  than  a  decade  to 
strengthening  regional  security  through  bilateral  and 
multilateral cooperation.
16-38971
21/29
A/71/PV.47 
17/11/2016
In recent years, Georgian soldiers have been a part 
of  international  forces  and  have  shown  outstanding 
courage,  professionalism  and  dedication,  which  is 
a  clear  demonstration  of  our  nation’s  commitment  to 
enhancing  peace  and  stability  in  the  region.  We  are 
particularly glad to learn that during the recent attack 
on  the  German  Consulate  General  in  Mazar-e-Sharif, 
the  attackers  were  successfully  fought  off  by  the 
international  security  forces,  with 
the  Georgian 
contingent  at  the  forefront.  Their  professionalism  and 
courage saved many lives.
Georgia 
to 
troop-contributor 
the  counter-terrorist  coalition 
joined 
immediately  after 
the  horrendous  9/11  attacks, 
providing  its  airspace  and  airports  for  the  transit  of 
coalition forces and personnel to Afghanistan, and was 
an integral part of the northern distribution network. In 
2004, Georgia upgraded its engagement by committing 
troops and becoming, within several years, the largest 
non-NATO 
the  International 
Security  Assistance  Force  (ISAF)  and  second-largest 
per  capita  troop-contributor  after  the  United  States. 
Even  after  completion  of  the  ISAF  mission  in  2014, 
Georgia  continues  to  provide  a  sizable  contribution 
to  the  Resolute  Support  Mission.  Moreover,  Georgia 
is  determined  to  continue  its  support  to  international 
efforts  in  Afghanistan  beyond  2016.  Georgia  stands 
ready  to  offer  the  Afghan  side  training  and  exercise 
opportunities  at  Georgian  military  training  centres 
and  to  share  its  experience  in  defence  transformation 
and reforms.
Besides contributing troops, Georgia is committed 
to  continuing  its  fincancial  support  for  the  Afghan 
National  Defence  and  Security  Forces.  Georgia  has 
already  transferred  $1  million  to  the  fund  supporting 
the Forces and will allocate the last tranche of $500,000 
in  the  fiscal  year  2017,  thereby  fulfilling  its  pledge. 
In  July,  Georgia  also  made  a  new  pledge  to  continue 
its  financial  contribution  in  support  of  Afghanistan’s 
development from 2018 through 2020.
The road to peace and stability is not an easy one 
to  follow.  Bearing  in  mind  all  the  outstanding  efforts 
and sacrifices that have been made in Afghanistan, we 
are confident that, with the continued determination of 
the Afghan Government, the international community 
should  continue  building  on  the  gains  and  further 
advancing the hard-won progress achieved thus far in 
Afghanistan and tackle the challenges that remain.
To conclude, let me reiterate that, in that spirit of 
partnership and focusing on supporting peace, justice 
and  development,  Georgia  will  continue  to  stand  by 
Afghanistan and the Afghan people in the years to come.
Mr. Lambertini (Italy): At the outset, allow me to 
thank the Permanent Representative of Afghanistan for 
his statement and the German delegation for facilitating 
negotiations  on  draft  resolution  A/71/L.13  in  a  very 
comprehensive manner. Italy is a sponsor of the draft 
resolution and aligns itself with the statement made by 
the Permanent Observer of the European Union.
The  Brussels  Conference  on  Afghanistan  was 
a  significant  opportunity  to  renew  the  partnership 
between Afghanistan and the international community, 
which is indispensable to assuring future development, 
self-sustaining growth and prosperity for the country, 
and  in  particular  the  people  of  Afghanistan.  We  are 
all aware of how ambitious that goal is, but the stakes 
are high and Afghanistan cannot afford to fail on the 
road  to  reform.  To  that  end,  the  determination  and 
effectiveness  of  the  National  Unity  Government’s 
actions are crucial. In the first two years of its term, the 
Government has attained various encouraging results, 
but it is absolutely necessary for further concrete steps 
to  be  taken  in  that  direction.  The  cohesiveness  of  its 
leaders  and  the  sense  of  responsibility  of  all  Afghan 
institutions in that regard are not an option but rather an 
unavoidable condition.
The  relationship  of  solidarity  between  the  donor 
community  and  Afghanistan,  renewed  in  Brussels  
and  prior  to  that  in  Tokyo  and  London,  is  built  on 
that  assumption.  In  other  words,  the  framework  of 
mutual accountability must be fully respected in order 
to declare the Afghan Government’s ambitious reform 
and  development  programmes  a  success.  Therefore, 
we must make every effort to fight corruption, which 
represents  a  formidable  obstacle  on  the  road  to 
development and engenders a dangerous public distrust 
toward  national  institutions.  Electoral  reform  must 
be  completed  and  economic  governance  made  more 
efficient.  And  a  key  priority  is  to  improve  the  status 
of Afghan women by promoting their rights and their 
empowerment  in  every  sector  and  at  every  level  of 
society.  We  appreciate  that  the  Afghan  Government 
has  expressed  its  strong  commitment  to  those  goals, 
and in its actions it can continue to count on our full 
support. Italy recently renewed its tangible support at 
the Brussels Conference.
22/29 
16-38971
17/11/2016 
A/71/PV.47
Security conditions are a decisive factor in meeting 
the challenge of preserving and expanding the progress 
achieved  in  the  past  15  years  in  Afghanistan.  Today 
the  Afghan  National  Defence  and  Security  Forces 
are  deeply  engaged  in  fighting  the  actions  of  hostile 
terrorist insurgent groups, which are creating growing 
numbers  of  civilian  victims  and  internally  displaced 
persons.  To  help  meet  that  difficult  challenge,  Italy 
extends practical support to the Afghan Government’s 
efforts  to  achieve  the  security  and  stability  of  the 
country. At the Warsaw NATO Summit, we reaffirmed, 
together with our NATO partners, our commitment to 
assisting  the  Afghan  Defence  and  Security  Forces  to 
improve their capacities through our role as framework 
nation in the context of the Resolute Support Mission. 
To  ensure  a  lasting  peace  in  Afghanistan,  the  quest 
for  national  reconciliation  still  remains  the  primary 
political objective.
The  start  of  a  possible  peace  process  would 
certainly benefit from a cooperation and convergence 
framework  among  those  who  can  play  a  positive  role 
in  achieving  that  goal.  We  therefore  need  to  renew 
diplomatic efforts so that, in particular, a constructive 
collaboration  among  the  main  regional  stakeholders 
can  significantly  facilitate  the  conditions  for  a  peace 
process  and  trigger  a  virtuous  cycle  of  stability  and 
development for the benefit of Afghanistan and of the 
region as a whole.
Mr.  Moustafa  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, Egypt commends the adoption by consensus of 
the  annual  draft  resolution  entitled  “The  situation  in 
Afghanistan” (A/71/L.13), which is very important. As 
always,  we  affirm  the  importance  of  the  central  role 
played by the General Assembly and the United Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  in  supporting 
Afghanistan  as  it  moves  towards  a  brighter  and  more 
prosperous future. 
Central Asia and the Middle East have concomitant 
interests  and  a  common  need  for  stability.  Egypt  has 
always supported the Afghan Government in its fight 
against terrorism and its efforts to establish sovereignty 
across  all  its  territory.  We  also  support  the  Afghan 
authorities  in  their  political  and  social  endeavours  to 
establish security across their territory and to achieve 
development and prosperity for all the Afghan people.
threatens 
stability  and  security  in  Afghanistan  and  throughout 
Central  Asia.  There  is  therefore  a  need  for  the  close 
Drug-trafficking 
unquestionably 
coordination of efforts at the regional and international 
levels  to  combat  drug  trafficking,  including  by  the 
Afghan  authorities  Those  efforts  are  an  essential 
part  of  the  fight  against  terrorism,  because  drug- 
trafficking is one of the main sources of financing for 
terrorist  groups  and  armed  militias.  In  that  context, 
we commend the efforts of the United Nations Office 
on  Drugs  and  Crime  and  relevant  regional  bodies  to 
support Afghanistan in resolving that problem, which 
is thwarting efforts to achieve peace and development 
in Central Asia as a whole.
international  counter-terrorism  strategies, 
The  international  community  is  acutely  aware 
of  the  growing  threat  that  hovers  over  Afghanistan 
as  a  result  of  the  presence  in  that  country  of  Da’esh, 
a terrorist group that has extended its tentacles to the 
eastern part of the country. In the context of national 
and 
the 
fight must be waged against that phenomenon and that 
presence wherever they are found. Although it enjoys 
no direct benefit in doing so, Egypt is ready and willing 
to contribute to the specialized training of the Afghan 
army  and  police  force  to  help  establish  peace  and 
stability  across  Afghanistan  by  providing  assistance 
to the National Security Forces as they fight terrorist 
groups.  We  hope  that  we  will  be  able  to  establish 
tripartite cooperation programmes under which donors 
will provide the necessary financing to cover the costs 
of  the  specialized  security  training  to  which  I  have 
just referred.
Egypt  welcomes  the  regional  initiatives  being 
spearheaded  in  that  field,  especially  the  decisions 
taken  in  the  Heart  of  Asia-Istanbul  Process  and  the 
regional  endeavours  and  measures  of  the  Shanghai 
Cooperation  Organization.  We  also  commend  the 
positive  outcome  of  the  ministerial-level  Conference 
on  Afghanistan  held  last  month  in  Brussels,  whose 
aim  was  and  is  to  strengthen  cooperation  in  order  to 
face  up  to  the  security  threat  to  that  strategic  part  of 
the  world.  We  emphasize  that  the  interests  of  Central 
Asia and the Middle East are inextricably linked, and 
that we are anxious to continue supporting Afghanistan 
in the quest for sustained security and stability in the 
two  regions.  We  will  continue  to  support  the  Afghan 
Government’s work.
Finally, Egypt, which closely follows security and 
political  developments  in  Afghanistan,  is  profoundly 
convinced  that  it  must  assist  the  process  of  capacity-
building  in  a  country  that  has  suffered  so  much  for 
decades. We want to support the Afghan Government 
16-38971
23/29
A/71/PV.47 
17/11/2016
as it addresses the difficult challenges of establishing 
peace,  stability,  security  and  sustainable  development 
across the country.
Mr.  Bin  Momen 
(Bangladesh):  Bangladesh 
appreciates the sustained efforts being made to achieve 
sustainable  peace  and  development  in  Afghanistan, 
which  deserve  the  consistent  and  meaningful  support 
of  the  international  community.  It  welcomes  the 
undertakings stipulated in the Afghan National Peace 
and  Development  Framework  and  the  Self-Reliance 
through  Mutual  Accountability  Framework 
for 
2018-2020,  as  agreed  at  the  Brussels  Conference  on 
Afghanistan  held  last  month.  We  believe  that  those 
forward-looking  policy  documents  could  help  foster 
further international partnership towards durable peace 
and prosperity in Afghanistan.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  statement  delivered 
by  the  Ambassador  and  Permanent  Representative 
of  Afghanistan  this  morning,  in  which  he  reaffirmed 
his Government’s commitment to working towards an 
Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace and development 
process, with a focus on national security, democratic 
institution-building  and 
sustainable  development. 
Bangladesh  commends  the  Afghan  National  Unity 
Government for its robust commitment to taking forward 
its political reform agenda, including through electoral 
reform, the fight against corruption, the promotion of 
human rights and the protection of civilians.
Bangladesh 
shares 
the 
concerns  over 
the 
sustained  threats  posed  by  terrorists  and  violent 
extremists,  which  take  various  forms.  It  is  critical 
that international terrorist groups and foreign terrorist 
fighters  be  denied  opportunities  to  gain  footholds  in 
Afghanistan  and  thereby  exert  their  influence  across 
the neighbourhood. We encourage the various regional 
and plurilateral initiatives, including the Quadrilateral 
Coordination  Group,  to  work  towards  a  common 
agenda  to  effectively  address  the  prevailing  and 
emerging  threats  of  terrorism  and  violent  extremism 
in Afghanistan. We reiterate the crucial importance of 
combating transnational organized crime, particularly 
trafficking in illicit drugs, through enhancing regional 
cooperation in surveillance, intelligence, investigation 
and prosecution.
Bangladesh  takes  note  of  the  progress  made  in 
enhancing the recruitment, competence and morale of 
the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces  and  appreciates 
their commitment to discharging their responsibilities 
in  the  face  of  daunting  challenges.  We  welcome  the 
multisectoral  contributions  of  the  United  Nations 
Assistance Mission in Afghanistan to strengthening the 
security, law enforcement and judicial sectors. We also 
welcome the commitments made at the NATO Warsaw 
Summit towards further training, equipping, financing 
and  improvement  of  the  operational  capacity  of  the 
Afghan Security Forces. We underscore the importance 
of their being realized .
We  remain  concerned  over  the  disproportionate 
threats to women and children during armed conflicts 
and  violence, 
terrorists.  We  urge 
the  international  community  to  extend  support  to 
Afghanistan to address the threats posed by improvised 
explosive devices and explosive remnants of war.
including  by 
Under  the  guidance  of  Prime  Minister  Sheikh 
Hasina,  Bangladesh  continues  to  attach  the  highest 
priority  to  further  widening  and  deepening  relations 
with  our  neighbours  in  the  South  Asian  region.  We 
believe Afghanistan’s strategic potential to serve as a 
regional connectivity hub should be leveraged with the 
support of all regional countries. That can help revive 
the historic linkages across our territories and unlock 
further  development  opportunities  for  the  2  billion 
people of South Asia.
Bangladesh  considers  itself  to  be  a  potential 
development  partner  of  Afghanistan  and  remains 
willing  to  share  its  own  development  experiences. 
We  stand  ready  to  assist  Afghanistan  in  areas  such 
as  women’s  empowerment,  non-formal  education, 
community  health  care,  water  and  sanitation,  human 
resources  development,  judicial  system  reforms  and 
social  and  humanitarian  programmes.  Bangladesh 
is  also  willing  to  develop  customized  training  and 
capacity-building  programmes  for  relevant  Afghan 
professionals  and  experts  in  areas  such  as  banking 
and  financial  sector  reform,  disaster  management, 
agricultural  extension  and  youth  development,  with  a 
focus on technical and vocational education. We have 
offered to provide training to Afghan male and female 
police  personnel,  including  on  peacekeeping.  Our 
two  countries  are  currently  working  towards  further 
developing  and  evolving  institutional  arrangements 
such as foreign office consultation, trade agreements, 
cultural  exchanges,  visa  facilitation  and  air  services 
agreements.  Bangladesh  offers  some  scholarships  to 
Afghan  students  in  the  field  of  medicine  and  other 
areas of higher studies.
24/29 
16-38971
17/11/2016 
A/71/PV.47
Building 
across 
Resources 
Communities 
(BRAC),  the  largest  non-governmental  organization 
in  Bangladesh,  has  been  working  in  Afghanistan  for 
several years now and has contributed to development 
efforts there. Its staff are working in all 34 provinces of 
Afghanistan, with 389 offices reaching out to millions 
of  Afghan  people.  BRAC  is  also  imparting  training 
to  Afghan  civil  servants  in  various  development 
sectors,  and  our  Government  actively  supports 
BRAC’s  contribution  to  Afghan  development  and 
reconstruction efforts.
Bangladesh  thanks  the  German  delegation  for 
facilitating the work on draft resolution on the situation 
in Afghanistan (A/71/L.13), and to reiterate our support 
for it.
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I 
wish  to  begin  by  thanking  Germany  for  steering  the 
negotiations on draft resolution A/71/L.13.
As  has  been  the  case  for  several  years,  terrorist 
groups  have  continued  their  subversive  and  criminal 
activities  in  Afghanistan  throughout  the  past  year. 
My  people  and  Government  strongly  condemn  the 
perpetrators of the barbaric atrocities that culminated 
in  the  bombings  of  peaceful  demonstrations  and 
religious gatherings on 23 July and in mid-October this 
year and led to hundreds of civilian deaths and injuries. 
In committing these crimes, the terrorist groups, led by 
the Taliban, Al-Qaida, Da’esh and their affiliates, are 
doing everything in their power to prevent the country 
from returning to normal and continuing on the path of 
peace and development.
My  Government  continues  to  reiterate  its  support 
for any Afghan-led peace process, acknowledges peace 
talks between the Afghan Government and the Taliban 
and deplores the continuing uncertainty in this regard. 
At  the  same  time,  we  condemn  any  cooperation  with 
the Taliban, as we believe that it will encourage them 
and  other  terrorist  groups  in  their  odious  behaviour 
and will prove to be counterproductive to thr efforts to 
establish peace and stability in Afghanistan.
Iran  has  warned  and  continues  to  warn  about  the 
emergence of Da’esh and its affiliates in Afghanistan. 
On 23 July, we witnessed the deadliest single incident 
recorded  by  the  United  Nations  in  Afghanistan  since 
2001 —  a  terrorist  attack  against  a  demonstration  by 
ethnic  Hazaras,  for  which  the  so-called  Islamic  State 
in  Iraq  and  the  Levant-Khorasan  Province  (ISIL-KP) 
claimed  responsibility.  ISIL-KP  and  a  spectrum  of 
other terrorist and extremist groups, such as the Islamic 
Movement  of  Uzbekistan  in  the  north  and  the  East 
Turkestan  Islamic  Movement,  appear  as  an  emerging 
security threat in Afghanistan.
We support the Afghan National Unity Government, 
as  it  is  at  the  forefront  of  the  fight  against  terrorism 
and  is  undertaking  efforts  to  stabilize  the  situation 
in  the  country  and  to  keep  the  people  united  in  this 
fight. It is imperative that the international community 
remain  steadfast  in  its  support  of  the  Afghan  Unity 
Government, as this continues to be critical if we wish 
to bring the fight against terrorism and extremism to a 
successful  conclusion  and  address  security,  economic 
and political challenges.
Today,  as  in  the  past,  strengthening  our  regional 
cooperation  with  Afghanistan  is  a  priority  for  my 
Government as a major pathway towards consolidating 
peace  and  economic  stability  in  the  region.  Over  the 
past  decade,  Iran  has  spent  many  millions  of  dollars 
and  engaged  experts  to  help  Afghanistan  with  the 
completion  of  hundreds  of  projects,  ranging  from 
infrastructure  to  training  and  capacity-building  in 
human resources, especially through offering hundreds 
of scholarships each year.
Following  the  trilateral  agreement  among  Iran, 
Afghanistan  and  India  to  develop  the  Iranian  port 
of  Chabahar,  relevant  coordination  meetings  at  the 
level  of  the  governors  of  the  border  provinces  were 
held  on  25  and  26  July  to  discuss  security  and  new 
trade  opportunities  involving  the  port.  The  Afghan 
Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs visited Tehran on 
3 August for discussions on trade, infrastructure, and 
the presence of Afghan nationals in Iran. The Afghan 
National Security Adviser visited Iran on 6 and 7 August 
to  discuss  border  security  and  countering  violent 
extremism. The fifth Afghanistan-Iran Joint Economic 
Commission  was  held  on  10  August  in  Tehran.  Iran 
and Afghanistan are also committed to increasing their 
transport  connectivity,  with  special  emphasis  on  the 
Khaf-Herat Railway, a 78-mile railway project in Farah 
and a second bridge over the Hirmand River.
Narcotic drugs continue to be a real threat to this 
region and many other parts of the globe. It is a very 
serious issue for my Government and Iranian society, 
as it is for many other Governments and societies. We 
therefore believe that it should be taken very seriously 
by  the  international  community  and  addressed  in  a 
comprehensive manner. Any increase in narcotics is a 
16-38971
25/29
A/71/PV.47 
17/11/2016
reflection of prevailing insecurity and poverty. Strong 
support  and  commitment  from  international  donors, 
Afghan  authorities  and  the  United  Nations  Office  on 
Drugs and Crime are essential to deterring the menace 
of  narcotics  as  a  social  health  challenge  and,  more 
important,  as  a  major  source  of  income  for  extremist 
and terrorist groups.
on  Afghanistan  (A/71/L.13).  As  a  sponsor  of  the 
draft  resolution,  Kazakhstan  reiterates  its  unfailing 
commitment 
to  enhancing  peace,  security  and 
development  in  Afghanistan.  We  believe  that  this 
in  turn  will  strengthen  stability  in  the  region,  of 
which  Afghanistan  forms  an  integral  and  extremely 
important part.
Iran  continues  to  participate  in  the  work  of 
the  Tripartite  Commission  in  order  to  plan  for  the 
voluntary,  safe,  dignified  and  gradual  repatriation  of 
Afghan  refugees.  We  welcome  any  effort  to  help  to 
overcome  the  current  obstacles,  including  the  main 
reintegration  challenges  faced  by  returnees,  and  to 
formulate a comprehensive voluntary repatriation and 
reintegration strategy. Success in voluntary repatriation 
depends first and foremost on fulfilling the reasonable 
needs  of  repatriated  refugees  in  Afghanistan,  and 
for  that  purpose  it  is  essential  to  mobilize  additional 
international support.
Meanwhile,  we  continue  to  support  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  Afghan  refugees  in  Iran  and  to  provide 
them  with  access  to  education  and  medical  services. 
Last year, we enrolled 386,000 Afghan students in our 
schools and universities, regardless of their legal status. 
In  the  fields  of  health  care  and  medical  services,  we 
continue to provide services to hundreds of thousands 
of  refugees  each  year.  In  some  areas,  the  number  of 
Afghan  refugees  receiving  those  services  exceeds  the 
number of Iranians.
Iran  continues  to  fully  support  the  promotion  of 
security,  stability  and  comprehensive  and  sustainable 
development  in  Afghanistan,  since  we  believe  that  a 
peaceful and secure Afghanistan will greatly contribute 
to the security of our borders and our neighbourhood. 
We support the United Nations Assistance Mission in 
Afghanistan (UNAMA) and the various United Nations 
agencies  in  their  efforts  to  provide  development  and 
reconstruction  assistance  to  Afghanistan  through  a 
genuine,  committed  and  sustained  partnership  of  the 
United  Nations  with  Afghanistan,  as  set  forth  in  the 
final report of the Tripartite Review Commission on the 
United Nations in Afghanistan. We need to utilize the 
UNAMA  mandate  and  its  good  offices  to  strengthen 
national institutions and capacities in priority areas,as 
requested by the Government.
Mr.  Sadykov  (Kazakhstan):  First  of  all,  we 
express  our  gratitude  to  the  delegation  of  Germany 
for facilitating the negotiations on the draft resolution 
My delegation acknowledges the important role of 
the  United  Nations  and  of  regional  and  international 
stakeholders  in  contributing  international  assistance 
to  Afghanistan.  My  delegation  therefore  commends 
the activities of the United Nations Assistance Mission 
in  Afghanistan  (UNAMA),  as  well  as  of  regional 
organizations, which are aimed at achieving economic 
stability,  peaceful  development,  the  rule  of  law  and 
good governance in Afghanistan.
The  Government  of  Kazakhstan  has  always 
contributed  to  peace,  reconstruction  and  capacity-
building in Afghanistan. It has pledged to increase its 
cooperation with other actors and with the Government 
of  the  country  in  the  work  of  State-building,  within 
the  framework  of  political,  economic  and  social 
advancement.  We  therefore  support  the  Afghanistan 
National  Peace  and  Development  Framework  and 
the  Self-Reliance 
through  Mutual  Accountability 
Framework,  which  strive  to  achieve  structural  reform 
and  to  put  in  place  an  accountable  and  effective 
Government, as agreed at the Brussels Conference on 
Afghanistan last month. We are deeply convinced that 
Afghanistan’s high potential, in terms of both its human 
capital and its natural resources, will transform the State 
into a key country of the region. We therefore call on 
the global community to support every effort to ensure 
its  stability,  so  that  it  will  be  able  to  attract  foreign 
investment and thereby boost the Afghan economy.
The  threats  posed  by  extremist  groups  in  the 
region  compel  us  to  be  proactive  in  supporting  the 
Afghan Government and the Afghan National Defence 
and Security Forces. We believe that the fight against 
drug  trafficking,  which  is  a  key  source  for  financing 
terrorism, can be effective not only through enhanced 
cooperation among our law enforcement agencies, but 
also  by  providing  market  incentives  for  cultivating 
agricultural  products  other  than  the  opium  poppy 
in  Afghanistan.  We  support  the  work  of  the  Central 
Asian  Regional  Information  and  Coordination  Centre 
in  combating  the  illicit  trafficking  of  narcotic  drugs, 
psychotropic substances and their precursors, and call 
upon Member States to cooperate closely in that regard.
26/29 
16-38971
17/11/2016 
A/71/PV.47
Kazakhstan  was  among  the  first  supporters  of 
the  Northern  Distribution  Network’s  New  Silk  Road 
initiative and the Silk Road Economic Belt, which are 
being implemented within the framework of the Asian 
Development Bank’s Central Asia Regional Economic 
Cooperation  Programme.  We  are  convinced  that  they 
will provide greater access to Afghanistan for foreign 
investors and will create favourable external conditions 
for Afghanistan’s economic growth.
In 
the 
that 
further 
improving 
relations  and 
regard,  we  welcome 
international  community 
the  continued 
commitment  of 
to 
supporting the stability and development of Afghanistan 
and 
interaction 
between  Afghanistan  and  its  neighbours.  We  support 
the  framework  of  the  Heart  of  Asia-Istanbul  Process 
on  Regional  Security  and  Cooperation  for  a  Secure 
and Stable Afghanistan. We are convinced that closer 
cooperation of regional organizations will contribute to 
the peace and security and development of Afghanistan.
In cooperation with Japan and the United Nations 
Development  Programme,  in  August  2016  we  started 
to provide policy support and capacity development for 
gender  equality  in  Afghanistan.  On  a  bilateral  level, 
we  provide  humanitarian  aid  and  technical  assistance 
to  Afghanistan,  as  well  as  offering  an  extensive 
scholarship  programme  for 
thousands  of  Afghan 
students  to  study  medicine,  science,  engineering  and 
public administration at universities in Kazakhstan.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Kazakhstan’s 
consistent support for Afghanistan in its determination 
to  follow  a  path  of  stability,  security  and  sustainable 
economic development.
Mr. Musayev (Azerbaijan): At the outset, I would 
like  to  thank  the  President  for  having  convened 
this  plenary  meeting.  We  also  thank  the  Permanent 
Representative of Afghanistan for his statement and the 
delegation of Germany for facilitating the negotiations 
on  the  draft  resolution  concerning  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan  (A/71/L.13),  which  Azerbaijan  is  pleased 
to co-sponsor.
the 
commends 
Azerbaijan 
efforts  of 
the 
National  Unity  Government  of  Afghanistan  towards 
implementing  political,  economic  and  social  reforms 
and addressing complex security challenges facing the 
country. It is important to maintain the progress attained 
so far, and that requires strong commitment on the part 
of both Afghanistan and its international partners.
to 
support 
continue 
Azerbaijan  will 
the 
stabilization, peaceful reconstruction and development 
of  Afghanistan  through  bilateral  cooperation  and  the 
relevant multilateral international and regional formats. 
Azerbaijan has participated in the International Security 
Assistance  Force  (ISAF)  almost  from  its  beginning 
and has steadily increased its military contribution to 
ISAF. Our efforts also include delivering assistance to 
Afghanistan in the military, security, mine-action, law-
enforcement  and  education  spheres,  among  others,  as 
well as continuing to make a contribution to the Resolute 
Support  Mission  by  providing  troops,  multimodal 
transport, transit, training and financial aid.
On  7  September,  the  President  of  Azerbaijan 
approved  an  agreement  between  the  Governments  of 
Azerbaijan  and  Afghanistan  on  military  assistance. 
Azerbaijan  participates  in  relevant  international  and 
regional political initiatives aimed at promoting peace 
and  stability  in  Afghanistan,  including  the  Heart  of 
Asia-Istanbul  Process.  We  also  support  Afghanistan’s 
efforts  at  integrating  into  the  regional  and  global 
economy and at reviving trade with its neighbours and 
beyond through increased regional connectivity.
Over  the  years,  Azerbaijan  has  fostered  regional 
cooperation  and  successfully  developed  transregional 
infrastructure  with  multimodal  capabilities  along  the 
East-West and North-South axes. The Baku International 
Sea Trade Port and the Baku-Tbilisi-Kars railroad, now 
near  completion  —  projects  which  the  Central  Asian 
countries are involved in — will contribute to further 
developing  transport  and  transit  capacities  for  use  by 
Afghanistan and other countries in the region.
The  well-being  and  prosperity  of  Afghanistan, 
economic  growth  and 
regional  cooperation  are 
interlinked and dependent on the security situation in 
the country and the region. We must demonstrate our 
resolve  and  strong  will  to  continue  jointly  addressing 
the security challenges which the country continues to 
face, and to enhance regional cooperation to that end. 
Afghanistan’s  strengthened  dialogue  and  cooperation 
with  its  immediate  neighbours  and  other  regional 
partners on a wide range of issues — including peace and 
reconciliation, regional security, economic development 
and  humanitarian  assistance  —  are  essential  for  the 
peaceful and stable future of the country and the region. 
Continued regional and international commitment and 
assistance  to  Afghanistan  are  essential  for  fulfilling 
its  aspiration  to  achieve  long-term  peace,  stability 
and prosperity.
16-38971
27/29
A/71/PV.47 
17/11/2016
for  Afghanistan’s  sovereignty, 
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate Azerbaijan’s 
support 
territorial 
integrity  and  unity.  We  wish  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan  every  success  in  its  efforts  to  achieve  a 
unified, peaceful and prosperous future for the country.
Mr. Panayotov (Bulgaria): Allow me to begin by 
expressing my gratitude to the President for convening 
this  important  annual  debate  on  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan.  I  wish  to  the  Permanent  Mission  of 
Germany for all its efforts, culminating in the consensus 
draft  resolution  on 
in  Afghanistan 
(A/71/L.13),  which  Bulgaria  has  co-sponsored.  I  also 
thank  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan, 
Ambassador Saikal, and his team for playing an active 
role in achieving consensus on the resolution.
the  situation 
Bulgaria aligns itself with the statement delivered 
earlier by the observer of the European Union and its 
member States.
We  reiterate  the  emphasis  placed  on  the  two 
important  international  conferences  that  took  place 
in  2016:  the  NATO  Warsaw  Summit  in  July,  and  the 
Brussels  Conference  on  Afghanistan 
in  October. 
Both  conferences  reconfirmed  our  commitment  to 
Afghanistan  beyond  2016,  be  it  military,  political  or 
through development assistance. 
The  Warsaw  Summit  sent  a  clear  message  of 
continuity  on  the  part  of  the  allies  and  the  NATO 
operational  partners  regarding  their  support  for  long-
term  security  and  stability  in  Afghanistan.  Bulgaria 
remains  committed  to  NATO  efforts  in  Afghanistan, 
including through participation in the Resolute Support 
Mission  beyond  2016  at  current  troop  levels  and 
locations,  as  well  as  through  financial  contributions 
to the Afghanistan National Army Trust Fund for the 
period 2018-2020.
The Brussels Conference provided another valuable 
opportunity to reaffirm the commitments of  the Afghan 
Government  to  reform  and  stabilization  and  endorsed 
the  National  Peace  and  Development  Framework.  In 
Brussels,  we  reconfirmed  our  political  and  financial 
support  for  Afghan  reconstruction  and  sustainable 
development  until  2020,  at  or  near  current  levels, 
depending on the pace of reforms in Afghanistan and in 
compliance with the principle of mutual accountability. 
Preserving  unity  within  the  Afghan  Government  will 
be of crucial importance for the political stability of the 
country and for delivering on the commitments made 
in Brussels.
The  peace  and  reconciliation  process  remains  a 
major  prerequisite  for  building  a  secure  and  stable 
Afghanistan.  We  welcome  the  agreement  between 
the  Afghan  authorities  and  Hezb-i  Islami,  and  we 
hope  it  can  serve  as  a  stimulus  for  other  groups  to 
engage in constructive Afghan-led and Afghan-owned 
peace  talks.  Regional  cooperation  is  also  essential, 
since  no  sustainable  progress  can  be  achieved  in  the 
reconstruction and reform process unless Afghanistan 
and  the  regional  actors  engage  in  a  credible  manner 
to  solve  the  existing  problems  and  develop  mutually 
beneficial links.
Bulgaria is considering enhancing its engagement 
in  initiatives  aimed  at  countering  the  root  causes  of 
conflicts and migration from Afghanistan. We believe 
that  that  challenge  should  be  addressed  by  stepping 
up  cooperation  on  the  control  and  management  of 
migrant  flows.  Bulgaria  attaches  great  importance  to 
the  Joint  Way  Forward  on  migration  issues  between 
the European Union and Afghanistan — an important 
political document that will pave the way for finding a 
solution to the migration problem.
  Bulgaria  has  been  a  long-standing  partner  of 
Afghanistan,  having  contributed  significantly  in  the 
fields  of  security,  justice  and  development.  Within 
the  framework  of  Bulgaria’s  official  development 
assistance, we continue supporting Afghanistan as one 
of our main partner countries, with a view to increasing 
Afghanistan’s administrative capacity, combating drug 
trafficking  by  training  Afghan  police  officers,  and 
protecting  the  rights  of  women  and  children.  These 
are crucial elements for the sustainable socioeconomic 
development of Afghanistan. At the Brussels Conference 
on  Afghanistan,  Bulgaria  announced  that  it  was 
considering  new  bilateral  projects  and  commitments 
beyond 2016. We will continue to support Afghanistan 
and its people in that same spirit of partnership.
The Acting President:(spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on the issue.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  draft 
situation 
entitled 
“The 
resolution  A/71/L.13, 
in Afghanistan”.
the 
I  give 
floor 
the Secretariat.
to 
the 
representative  of 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
to 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
announce that, since the submission of draft resolution 
like 
28/29 
16-38971
17/11/2016 
A/71/PV.47
A/71/L.13,  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
in  that  document,  the  following  countries  have  also 
become  sponsors:  Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina, 
Armenia,  Australia,  Austria,  Azerbaijan,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Canada,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  the 
Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  the  Dominican  Republic, 
Egypt, Finland, France, Greece, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, 
Kazakhstan,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Malaysia, the Federated States of Micronesia, Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  New  Zealand,  Pakistan,  the 
Republic  of  Korea,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Turkey,  Ukraine,  the  United  Arab 
Emirates and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now take a decision on draft resolution 
A/71/L.13.  May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the 
Assembly to adopt it?
Draft resolution A/70/L.13 was adopted (resolution 
71/9).
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  I 
take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 36?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
16-38971
29/29
