United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
15th plenary meeting
Thursday, 22 September 2016, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.15
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Address by Mr. Rosen Plevneliev, President of the 
Republic of Bulgaria
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria.
Mr. Rosen Plevneliev, President of the Republic of 
Bulgaria, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Mr. Rosen Plevneliev, President of the 
Republic of Bulgaria, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President Plevneliev: We congratulate His Excellency 
Mr. Peter Thomson on assuming the presidency of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-first session and extend 
our gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft 
for  his  commitment  during  the  previous  session  and 
his strong efforts aimed at promoting transparency and 
efficiency within the United Nations system.
The  theme  of  this  year’s  general  debate,  “The 
Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a  universal  push 
to  transform  our  world”,  is  extremely  important  for 
all  of  us.  The  full  and  timely  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  is  crucial  in 
order  to  ensure  progress  and  prosperity  around  the 
world,  strengthen  peace  and  make  our  planet  a  better 
place in which to live.
But peace and freedom are being tested today. We 
are  witnessing  the  worst  security  situation  since  the 
end  of  the  Second  World  War.  National  borders  and 
international principles are being challenged. In many 
regions, war and terror prevail. States and institutions 
are  disintegrating.  The  world  is  out  of  balance  today. 
Terrorism  is  on  the  rise.  No  one  is  immune,  and  no 
one is safe. War zones have become breeding grounds 
for  radical  ideologies  and  launch  pads  for  terrorist 
activities. Violations and abuses of human rights occur 
every  day,  and  innocent  women  and  children  are  the 
most affected. In these turbulent times, the number of 
crises around the world is at a record high. Protracted 
conflicts are causing so many humanitarian tragedies. 
Conflict  resolution  and  reconciliation  have  become 
more challenging to achieve and sustain. It is very easy 
to occupy and destroy, but it is very difficult to rebuild 
and reconcile broken societies.
Europe is a symbol of hope for millions of refugees. 
Inspired by our common values, we are determined to 
further strengthen our efforts to manage migration in 
accordance with international humanitarian and human 
rights law. Countries that are close to the conflict zones, 
like  Bulgaria,  are  facing  an  unprecedented  challenge. 
We  welcome  the  New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees 
and Migrants (resolution 71/1) as a symbol of our joint 
effort to strengthen international cooperation so as to 
better protect and assist refugees. 
Migration  should  be  managed  through  collective 
global efforts in a responsible way. Our specific focus 
should be on the protection of the human rights of migrants 
and refugees, especially the most vulnerable — women, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29559 (E)
*1629559*
A/71/PV.15 
22/09/2016
children and persons with disabilities. At the same time, 
all migrants have the duty to comply with the laws of 
their  countries  of  residence.  Bulgaria  welcomes  the 
emphasis on global responsibility-sharing. That crucial 
element  should  guide  us  in  building  partnerships 
between the countries of origin, transit and destination 
and the entire international community.
The current global humanitarian crisis reminds us 
that  we  must  tackle  global  issues  in  an  inclusive  and 
integrated manner, focusing on the root causes. It is also 
a crisis for children. We must hear their voice. We must 
recall  that  a  child  is  first  a  child  and  then  a  refugee. 
The child is entitled to the full set of rights recognized 
in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, including 
family reunification.
The  United  Nations  has  a  crucial  role  to  play  in 
addressing  those  challenges.  Our  crisis-management 
efforts  require  a  holistic  United  Nations  response, 
preventive  diplomacy,  mediation,  peacebuilding, 
resilience  and  reconciliation.  Bulgaria  participates 
actively  in  the  work  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of 
Mediation, which contributes to those efforts. We are 
committed to helping crisis-stricken countries recover. 
There  is  an  old  saying:  “Prevention  is  better  than  a 
cure.”
Bulgaria is committed to the global efforts aimed 
at preventing and resolving ongoing conflicts. During 
our  very  successful  chairmanship-in-office  of  the 
South-East  European  Cooperation  Process,  Bulgaria 
proposed  concrete  initiatives  focused  on  enhancing 
security,  stability,  connectivity,  reconciliation  and 
sustainable development in the Balkans. Bulgaria plays 
an important role in strengthening the expertise of the 
European Union in the region and supports the Euro-
Atlantic  integration  of  the  countries  in  the  Western 
Balkans.
legitimacy  because  of 
The European Union (EU) has unique significance 
and  strong 
the  peaceful 
discussions  it  holds  and  its  settlement  of  differences 
by consensus, because of its shared fundamental rights 
and rules, and because it has achieved an unprecedented 
level of integration and cooperation among its member 
States.  Last  week,  Bulgaria  very  successfully  hosted 
the  annual  meeting  of  the  Arraiolos  Group.  Ten 
Presidents of EU member States exchanged ideas and 
shared a vision of how to rebuild trust in the European 
Union and bring lasting stability and prosperity to the 
Balkans. That served as an important recognition of the 
friendly,  balanced  and  principled  foreign  policy  that 
Bulgaria is conducting today.
We need to team up and develop common strategies, 
rather  than  build  fortresses  to  defend  short-sighted 
national interests. We have to engage leaders throughout 
the world and from all sectors of society, and not just 
acknowledge but resolve conflicts. We need prevention, 
and we need to be proactive so as to detect crises early 
and  solve  them.  We  need  to  empower  diplomacy  and 
promote  principles,  not  interests  and  weapons.  We 
need to reconfirm rather than renegotiate the principles 
of  international  order.  As  the  Vice-President  of  the 
European  Commission,  Ms.  Kristalina  Georgieva, 
stressed  during  the  World  Humanitarian  Summit  in 
Istanbul, we need a step change in the way we address 
humanitarian  crises  by  looking  more  rigorously  into 
the root causes. 
Bringing  peace  and  reconciliation  back  to  Syria 
can  be  achieved  only  through  a  Syrian-led  political 
process that involves an inclusive transition that takes 
into account the aspirations of all parts of society. It is 
important to create favourable conditions enabling the 
resumption of the intra-Syrian peace talks as soon as 
possible.
We do not want to go back to the time when great 
Powers allocated their spheres of influence. We cannot 
once  again  allow  political  interests  to  divide  and 
occupy the territory of sovereign States or create frozen 
conflicts. 
The recent escalation of the conflict in Ukraine is 
a  source  of  deep  concern.  Any  attempt  to  destabilize 
Ukraine  is  unacceptable.  Bulgaria  strongly  supports 
the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence 
of  Ukraine.  My  country  renews  its  call  for  the  full 
implementation of the Minsk Agreements and reiterates 
its consistent policy of the non-recognition of the illegal 
annexation of Crimea.
Bulgaria  supports 
the  process  of  building  a 
peaceful,  stable  and  self-reliant  Afghanistan.  We 
will  continue  to  contribute  to  the  reconstruction 
and  State-building  process  in  Afghanistan  through 
our  participation  in  the  NATO-led  Resolute  Support 
Mission.  We  are  contributing  to  the  Afghanistan 
National  Army  Trust  Fund,  and  we  are  assisting  in 
building Afghanistan’s administrative capacity through 
our official development assistance.
2/28 
16-29559
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.15
The  Middle  East  peace  process  has  reached  a 
critical  stage.  New  initiatives  are  needed  to  revive 
the  two-State  solution.  Bulgaria  welcomes  the  recent 
efforts in that direction, especially the Quartet report. 
We  highly  value  and  fully  support  the  work  of  the 
Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process, 
Mr.  Nickolay  Mladenov,  in  his  challenging  mission. 
We reaffirm our position that the two-State solution is 
the realistic, just and lasting way to settle the Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict.  A  solution  that  could  satisfy  the 
aspirations of both sides can be achieved only through 
direct negotiations, with no conditions attached, and in 
conformity with all relevant international obligations.
the 
Bulgaria  supports 
implementation  of 
the 
agreement on the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
on  the  Iranian  nuclear  programme,  which  is  an 
important  step  forward  in  achieving  stability  in  the 
region. We hope that all agreed measures will be fully 
implemented.
The fifth consecutive nuclear test carried out by the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, in September, 
is  a  direct  violation  of  Security  Council  resolutions. 
We urge the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to 
suspend its nuclear and ballistic missile programmes and 
to resume dialogue with the international community, 
including in the framework of the Six-Party Talks.
Terrorism  and  violent  extremism  are  an  alarming 
threat  to  peace  and  security.  It  is  a  source  of  grave 
concern that such acts have increased dramatically. We 
cannot and should not accept that this is the new normal. 
Every effort must be made to eradicate terrorism and 
violent extremism. Bulgaria is a proud member of the 
international Anti-Terrorism Coalition.
The United Nations has an important role to play 
in managing and coordinating comprehensive counter-
terrorism  actions  across  the  world.  The  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions  and  the  United  Nations 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  serve  as  a  good 
basis  for  international  cooperation.  Bulgaria  supports 
the  Secretary-General’s  review  of  the  United  Nations 
counter-terrorism architecture.
The  prevention  of  radicalization  is  an  essential 
part of the response. Bulgaria has adopted the required 
domestic  legislation  and  has  built  the  necessary 
institutional  capacity.  Education,  the  protection  of 
cultural heritage and the protection of human rights will 
help  us  deal  with  the  reasons  that  lead  individuals  to 
feel forced to join violent extremist groups. The role of 
UNESCO in those efforts is crucial. We commend the 
dedicated work and invaluable contribution of Ms. Irina 
Bokova  and  her  leadership  in  promoting  education 
and  intercultural  dialogue  globally.  Her  outstanding 
performance and strong commitment to the principles 
and purposes of the United Nations are fundamental for 
achieving sustainable progress and long-lasting results.
We  made  history  with  the  adoption  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  Now  it  is  time  for 
their implementation. It is up to all of us to adapt our 
national strategies and deliver on those commitments. 
As President of Bulgaria, I was so proud to be among 
the first to sign the historic Paris Agreement during the 
high-level  ceremony  at  the  Secretariat  in  New  York. 
My country supports the early entry into force of the 
Paris Agreement. I have the pleasure to announce that 
the  Bulgarian  Government  has  already  initiated  its 
domestic ratification procedure.
My country is elaborating its national programme 
for development, Bulgaria 2030, by actively engaging 
civil society, young people, the private sector and media. 
We are focusing on education, high-tech and innovation 
to  build  a  green  and  energy-efficient  economy.  To 
that  end,  we  are  educating  young  Bulgarians  on  the 
importance  of  sustainability.  Bulgarian  schools,  in 
partnership  with  UNICEF,  have  introduced  special 
programmes to teach children about the SDGs.
Peace is not a given, and it is up to all of us to protect 
it.  And  peace  is  not  just  the  absence  of  war.  Peace 
is  human  rights.  Peace  is  the  rule  of  law.  Promoting 
human rights is a core purpose of the United Nations 
and  defines  its  identity.  Bulgaria  has  been  strongly 
advocating for strengthening the human rights pillar of 
the United Nations. Bulgaria is determined to further 
contribute to promoting human rights as a member of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the  period  2019-2021, 
and we rely on our partners’ valuable support for our 
candidacy.
to 
importance 
Bulgaria  attaches  great 
the 
protection of children and the promotion of their rights. 
As Co-Chair of the Group of Friends on Children and 
SDGs,  Bulgaria  has  been  strongly  advocating  for  the 
integration  of  children’s  human  rights  in  all  major 
intergovernmental  processes  at  the  United  Nations.  It 
is  our  firm  conviction  that  children  should  be  at  the 
heart  of  global  action.  We  made  children’s  rights  a 
strategic priority for the Council of Europe during our 
16-29559
3/28
A/71/PV.15 
22/09/2016
chairmanship  of  the  Committee  of  Ministers,  and  we 
are so proud to see the adoption of the Sofia Strategy 
for the Rights of the Child and the full support of all 
47  member  States.  I  commend  the  excellent  work  of 
the  previous  Bulgarian  Permanent  Representative  to 
the  United  Nations,  Ambassador  Stefan  Tafrov,  his 
vice-presidency  of  the  UNICEF  Executive  Board  and 
his dedication to the cause of children and human rights.
In  the  past  few  decades,  the  United  Nations  has 
made significant progress in advancing gender equality 
and  the  empowerment  of  women  and  girls.  Those 
efforts  should  continue  and  be  further  strengthened. 
Bulgaria is actively engaged at all levels in promoting 
gender  equality,  as  well  as  in  ending  gender-based 
discrimination and all forms of violence against women 
and girls. My country strongly supports the UN-Women 
Planet  50-50  campaign  for  achieving  gender  equality 
by  2030.  Women  in  Bulgaria  enjoy  full  participation 
in  all  areas  of  life.  In  our  Government,  two  of  three 
deputy  prime  ministers  and  half  of  the  ministers  are 
women. Two thirds of the magistrates at all levels are 
women.  Bulgaria  ranks  third  in  the  EU  in  terms  of 
women’s participation in the executive boards of large 
companies.
In  recent  years,  there  has  been  growing  support 
in  the  international  community  for  ensuring  equal 
opportunities for women and men in gaining access to 
senior  decision-making  positions,  including  the  post 
of  Secretary-General.  The  relevant  resolution  69/321 
stresses the need to ensure equal and fair distribution 
based  on  gender  and  geographical  balance,  while 
meeting  the  highest  possible  requirements,  in  the 
appointment of the Secretary-General. After eight male 
Secretaries-General,  the  time  has  come  for  a  capable 
and respectable woman from Eastern Europe to lead the 
United Nations. Bulgaria has a very strong candidate, 
a true leader with extensive experience in international 
relations and excellent management skills, a candidate 
who deserves Member States’ trust and support.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Bulgaria 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Rosen Plevneliev, President of the Republic of 
Bulgaria, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the 
Republic of Rwanda
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Rwanda.
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the Republic 
of Rwanda, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Kagame:  During  the  past  year,  the 
international community concluded landmark agreements 
on  sustainable  development  and  climate  change  and 
renewed  its  commitment  to  work  together  to  combat 
violent extremism. Those are the most serious matters 
before the international community today, and our joint 
efforts offer the prospect of transforming our world as 
a whole, not just a part of it. After all, the progress of 
every country is closely linked to the progress of every 
other country, and we all have a role to play.
Now  is  the  time  for  implementation.  We  can  stay 
on  course  if  we  keep  a  few  things  in  mind.  First,  we 
must  always  remember  that  the  ultimate  purpose 
of  our  efforts  is  to  transform  the  lives  of  real  people 
by  enhancing  their  well-being,  safety  and  access  to 
opportunity. Secondly, we must build on what we have 
learned so far. That means being inclusive — especially 
of  women,  because  if  they  are  not  able  to  reach  their 
potential,  then  none  of  us  are.  I  am  proud  to  be  a 
HeForShe  and  urge  others  to  support  this  important 
campaign.
We have also learned the lesson that technology has 
to  be  part  of  the  strategy  for  achieving  all  the  global 
goals.  Everyone  in  the  world  needs  to  have  access 
to  high-speed  Internet,  as  the  Secretary-General’s 
Broadband  Commission  has  advocated.  Rwanda  is 
pleased to be associated with that effort, and I commend 
the 
International  Telecommunication  Union  and 
UNESCO  for  the  good  work  that  they  have  done  and 
continue  to  do.  We  have  also  seen  the  importance  of 
forging meaningful partnerships with the private sector 
so  as  to  improve  the  speed  and  scale  of  the  delivery 
of Internet services. Such perspectives will inform the 
work of the new Sustainable Development Goal Centre 
for  Africa,  which  Rwanda  is  pleased  to  host  with  the 
support of our partners. 
4/28 
16-29559
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.15
There has to be real continuity between the various 
frameworks  that  have  guided  and  will  now  guide  our 
collective action. Those agreements are not slogans or 
fashions, but hard-won statements of global consensus 
about the world that we wish to leave to our children. 
Let us implement them with the speed and seriousness 
that they deserve.
There  are  encouraging  signs  of  progress  on  the 
horizon. Next month, more than a thousand delegates 
will  gather  in  Kigali  to  consider  a  ground-breaking 
amendment  to  the  Montreal  Protocol  on  the  Ozone 
Layer  that  would  phase  out  hydrofluorocarbons,  a 
major type of greenhouse gas. The nearly 30-year-old 
Montreal Protocol is already one of the most successful 
international agreements in history, and it now affords 
us the opportunity to take a significant step forward in 
implementing the one-year-old Paris Agreement. I urge 
all Member States to join with us to pass that important 
measure.
The world is changing for the better, as the ground 
is being levelled by technology. The way we relate to 
each other in the international community also has to 
change.  The  preservation  of  international  peace  and 
security depends on maintaining a shared vision of the 
outcomes that we want for our world and the values that 
guide our cooperation. That accounts for the continued 
relevance  and  durability  of  the  United  Nations.  Our 
collective  responsibility  for  the  rights  and  welfare  of 
refugees  and  migrants  should  be  seen  in  that  light. 
The  issue  must  be  addressed  with  consistency  and 
compassion at all times. It cannot become a crisis only 
when the wealthier countries begin to be affected. 
Rwanda  will  continue  to  play  its  part.  We  have 
gotten many things right, but there is no doubt that we 
could  be  achieving  even  more.  If  we  keep  the  people 
whom  we  are  fighting  for  at  the  front  of  our  minds 
and  build  on  lessons  learned,  there  is  no  reason  why 
we cannot achieve everything that we have committed 
ourselves to.
In closing, I would like to thank Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon, who has been a champion of technology 
and a strong advocate for sustainable development, as 
well as for other matters that have needed fair treatment. 
Even in the most difficult situations, he has been a voice 
of reason, and we wish him well.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Rwanda 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mrs. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, President 
of the Republic of Liberia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Liberia.
Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations Her 
Excellency Mrs. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, President of the 
Republic  of  Liberia,  and  to  invite  her  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Johnson-Sirleaf:  Last  year,  with  the 
adoption  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  we, 
all  together,  pledged  to  improve  various  conditions 
facing  humankind  and  to  protect  our  natural  habitat. 
Under the theme “The Sustainable Development Goals: 
a universal push to transform our world”, we have now 
convened  at  the  seventy-first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  assess  the  progress  and  to  deliberate  on 
current and emerging challenges in the overall pursuit 
of the underlying objective of passing a better world on 
to our children and grandchildren.
I  congratulate  you,  Sir,  and  the  people  of  Fiji  on 
your  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventy-first  session,  and  we  rely  on  your  vast 
experience  to  successfully  conduct  the  affairs  of  this 
session  in  the  furtherance  of  the  hopes  that  we  share 
for  a  better  world.  In  the  same  vein,  I  commend  His 
Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft of Denmark, under 
whose  able  leadership  the  affairs  of  the  seventieth 
session were conducted, including the adoption of the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
We  wish  to  recognize,  in  a  special  way,  the 
innovative and creative leadership of Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon,  who  has  energized  the  international 
community’s collective pursuit of the noble objectives 
of the United Nations. We acknowledge, with profound 
gratitude,  his  stewardship,  which  brought  a  paradigm 
shift  in  development  programmes  within  the  United 
Nations  system.  It  ushered  in  the  new  global  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, which envisions 
a world without poverty, a world of shared values and 
16-29559
5/28
A/71/PV.15 
22/09/2016
responsibilities, a world of gender equality and women’s 
empowerment  and  a  planet  saved  through  effective 
mitigations of threats — in effect, a world that leaves 
no one behind. As the Secretary-General’s tenure ends 
later  this  year,  I  would  like  to  him  to  know  that  his 
actions and innovations have inspired us all. He has our 
very best wishes for success in his future endeavours.
We  congratulate  and  welcome  the  International 
Organization for Migration (IOM) into the mainstream 
of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  at  this  time  when 
the world is facing the daunting challenge of a massive 
migration  and  refugee  crisis.  We  anticipate  cogent 
inter-agency  dialogue  and  collaboration  between  the 
International Organization for Migration and the Office of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  in 
facilitating the voluntary return and reintegration of refugees 
and displaced persons. We call on the two agencies to forge 
an effective response to the issue of migrant-smuggling and 
human trafficking, bearing in mind that women and children 
are the main victims of organized crime and modern slavery.
The  call  for  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations, 
particularly  the  Security  Council,  rings  louder  in  the 
deafening silence from some quarters. The equity that 
we  promote  through  our  commitments  at  the  United 
Nations must be respected by all of its bodies. We urge 
the big and powerful nations of the world to bring that 
long silence to an end.
This session is taking place at a time when there is 
an escalation of conflicts engulfing millions of people 
in  many  parts  of  the  world.  We  note  with  particular 
concern the rise of international terrorism, extremism, 
xenophobia  and  violence,  which  continue  to  pose  a 
threat to global, political, social and economic stability. 
The unabated crises that we continue to witness in the 
Middle  East,  on  the  continent  of  Africa  and  in  other 
parts of the world are a challenge to the noble objectives 
of  the  United  Nations.  The  mass  displacement  and 
suffering  imposed  on  the  people  of  Syria,  who  are 
forced to migrate far from their homeland, is a blight 
on the conscience of the world and questions the resolve 
of the United Nations.
The current state of our world, conditioned by the 
realities  of  insecurity,  requires  collective,  concerted 
action  to  avoid  unacceptable  levels  of  deprivation, 
poverty and human suffering. At our subregional level, 
the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
(ECOWAS)  has  demonstrated  its  commitment  and 
preparedness to combat terrorism in Mali, Côte d’Ivoire, 
Burkina Faso and Nigeria, as well as in other parts of 
the  subregion,  with  valued  support  from  partners  in 
the international community. We are optimistic about 
the regional initiatives and collaborations launched by 
the  African  Union,  ECOWAS  and  the  United  Nations 
that aim to help consolidate peace and security on the 
African  continent.  The  ECOWAS  initiative  to  bring 
peace  to  Guinea  Bissau,  the  African  Union  efforts 
in  Mali  and  South  Sudan,  and  the  Lake  Chad  Basin 
Commission’s efforts to combat Boko Haram and other 
terrorist groups show progress and clearly demonstrate 
the relevance of regional solidarity. 
With  a  view  to  strengthening  peace  and  security 
within  ECOWAS,  we  have  emphasized  the  fight 
against  organized  crime,  especially  cross-border 
trade in illicit small arms and light weapons, drug and 
human  trafficking,  and  piracy.  As  the  current  Chair 
of ECOWAS, I can confirm that we are unwaveringly 
committed 
to  achieve 
integration  through  infrastructure  development,  trade 
and  investment,  natural  resource  management,  food 
security, and peace and security with renewed vigour.
to  continuing  our  efforts 
Liberia  maintains  its  confidence  in  the  ability 
of  the  United  Nations  as  the  most  viable  body  in 
the  search  for  global  peace  and  security.  Liberia 
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  supporting  the  United 
Nations  in  its  endeavours  to  achieve  world  peace  and 
security, democratic governance and the advancement 
of  the  universal  principles  of  human  rights.  We 
reiterate  our  commitments  to  addressing  extreme 
poverty,  empowering  women  and  girls,  and  bringing 
marginalized  communities  into  mainstream  society 
and  making  their  voices  heard.  Those  are  the  drivers 
of our transformational push to save our nation and our 
world.
Since  our  conflict  ended  in  2003,  the  United 
Nations  Mission  in  Liberia  (UNMIL)  has  worked 
with Liberia, first to institute and then to consolidate 
security,  peacebuilding  efforts  and  governance 
gains  in  the  country.  I  am  pleased  to  report  that  the 
drawdown  of  UNMIL  was  successfully  executed  on 
30 June, when Liberian security agencies assumed full 
responsibility for the security of our nation and people. 
We  recognize  the  risks  involved,  given  our  severe 
fragility and the scarcity of resources, but we take up 
those responsibilities with confidence in the knowledge 
that our partners are still with us.
6/28 
16-29559
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.15
I  am  proud  to  have  served  as  a  Co-Chair  on  the 
Secretary-General’s  High-level  Panel  on  Global 
Sustainability, which initiated the process culminating 
in  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and 
the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals (SDGs). Liberia has embarked on its process of 
domesticating  the  SDGs  through  robust  nationwide 
consultations  and  dialogues  with  major  stakeholders, 
including  the  legislature,  the  executive,  the  judiciary, 
the  private  sector,  civil  society  and  faith-based 
organizations. With the support of our United Nations 
partners, we are formulating a road map to achieve full 
integration into our national development agenda.
With  43  per  cent  of  the  biodiversity  in  the  West 
African region, Liberia is mindful of the need to protect 
the environment from the effects of global warming and 
climate  change.  Our  commitment  to  sustainable  land 
and forest governance and management remains firm, 
as our establishment of a legal verification mechanism 
and  an  enforced  regulatory  framework  reflects.  Our 
partnership  with  Norway  has  been  helpful  in  that 
regard.
As a resilient and determined nation that has faced 
the challenges of several periods of devastation, Liberia 
is rising again. We are determined to walk the agreed 
road  to  the  achievement  of  our  Vision  2030,  and  to 
successfully  conclude  the  first  five-year  phase  of  our 
Agenda for Transformation. Our democracy, stalled by 
years of conflict, stands firm as we march towards its 
most  challenging  and  important  task:  the  conduct  of 
presidential and legislative elections in 2017.
On  behalf  of  the  people  of  Liberia,  I  thank  the 
United Nations for helping us to preserve peace over the 
past thirteen years. I also thank the many international 
partners who have been with us on the road to recovery.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I thank the President of the Republic of Liberia for the 
statement she has just made.
Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Liberia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Roch Marc Christian Kaboré, 
President of Faso and President of the Council of 
Ministers of Burkina Faso
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  of  Faso  and  President  of  the 
Council of Ministers of Burkina Faso.
Mr.  Roch  Marc  Christian  Kaboré,  President  of 
Faso  and  President  of  the  Council  of  Ministers 
of  Burkina  Faso,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Roch Marc Christian Kaboré, President 
of  Faso  and  President  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  of 
Burkina Faso, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Kaboré (spoke in French): Mr. President, 
I  would  like  to  join  all  those  who  have  preceded  me 
at  this  rostrum  in  offering  you  my  sincere  and  warm 
congratulations  on  your  election  to  lead  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  We  believe  that 
your outstanding knowledge of the international scene 
and excellent personal qualities will ensure the success 
of  our  work.  And  I  would  be  remiss  in  this  pleasant 
duty if I did not also pay tribute to Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for his vision and leadership and for all 
the work that he has done to strengthen the role of the 
Organization during his two terms.
Today, I am addressing the Assembly for the first 
time since my accession to the presidency of my country 
in  November  2015.  After  going  through  a  profound 
political crisis arising from its denial of certain basic 
democratic  principles,  Burkina  Faso  has  returned  to 
the core values underpinning democracy and the rule 
of law. The people of Burkina Faso, and especially our 
young people, have displayed great maturity and given 
proof, if any were needed, that nothing and no one can 
indefinitely suppress the desire for justice and freedom 
of  a  knowledgeable  people  who  jealously  guard  their 
rights and dignity.
This is where I should express our deep appreciation 
to the United Nations and the international community 
in general, which rallied to our side throughout our fight. 
Their support, manifested in many ways, helped us to 
definitively restore normal constitutional order and to 
organize democratic, free and transparent presidential, 
legislative and local elections. My presence in this Hall 
today  symbolizes,  therefore,  the  restoration  of  those 
16-29559
7/28
A/71/PV.15 
22/09/2016
rights and the recovery of our freedom. From now on, 
Burkina Faso is resolutely committed to consolidating its 
democratic process, supported by its firm commitment 
to achieving national reconciliation and establishing a 
genuine and permanent political dialogue.
Sustainable  development  has  never 
figured 
as  prominently  on  the  agenda  of  the  international 
community’s  priorities  as  it  does  now.  Above  all, 
our  commitment  to  eradicating  poverty  and  fighting 
inequality has never been stronger. We should therefore 
welcome the relevance of the theme of this year’s session, 
which calls on us to give the push needed to transform 
our world through our effective implementation of the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  that  we  unanimously 
adopted  last  year,  while  ensuring,  as  the  Secretary-
General  has  so  often  urged  us,  that  we  leave  no  one 
behind.
For its part, and in order to give true meaning to 
the  struggle  that  our  people  has  waged  for  freedom 
and  progress  from  its  inception  and  in  accordance 
with  its  mandate,  the  Government  of  Burkina  Faso 
has  committed  to  formulating  a  national  economic 
and social development plan for the period from 2016 
to  2020.  Based  directly  on  our  people’s  aspirations, 
the plan — which reflects the broad guidelines of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, as well as 
the African Union’s Agenda 2063 — will be presented 
to  our  technical  and  financial  partners  at  a  donors’ 
round table to be held in Paris on 7 and 8 December. 
We  know  that  we  can  count  on  the  active  solidarity 
of  all  concerned,  whose  support  of  the  efforts  of  the 
Government of Burkina Faso will enable us to lay the 
foundations for the genuinely sustainable development 
that  can  ensure  our  country’s  peace,  security,  safety 
and stability.
The  world  today  is  facing  formidable  challenges 
that  demand  that  we  strengthen  our  collective  action 
and intensify our joint efforts within the framework of 
our  Organization.  International  terrorism  and  violent 
extremism  have  emerged  as  the  major  threats  of  our 
time. The unprecedentedly violent terrorist attacks that 
are being perpetrated without discrimination every day, 
all over the world, illustrate to perfection the reach of 
what is now a global scourge. As victims of it ourselves, 
we can appreciate its scope. In that regard, I would like 
to pay tribute to the memory of every victim of those 
vile  acts  and  to  reiterate  the  sympathy  and  solidarity 
of the people of Burkina Faso with all the peoples and 
countries that they have touched. 
We must realize that the effectiveness of our fight 
will  depend  on  our  ability  to  launch  partnerships, 
pool  our  efforts  and  exchange  information  within  the 
framework  of  a  coherent,  solid  global  coalition.  The 
action that we are taking in the Group of Five for the 
Sahel  (G-5  Sahel)  is  part  of  that  effort  and  should  be 
supported. 
Burkina  Faso  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  on  his  Plan  of  Action  to  Prevent  Violent 
Extremism  (A/70/674),  presented  to  the  Assembly 
on  15  January,  and  calls  for  a  draft  comprehensive 
convention on terrorism to be finalized and adopted as 
soon as possible. 
Our struggle will bear fruit only when we succeed 
in destroying the terrorists’ rearguard and, especially, 
their  sources  of  supply,  and  when  we  commit  to 
addressing the causes of all such types of extremism, 
which  include  extreme  poverty,  injustice,  inequality, 
intolerance and exclusion.
turning 
the  seas  and  oceans 
In  that  connection,  how  can  we  not  think  of  the 
thousands  of  migrants  and  displaced  people  risking 
their  lives  every  day  in  search  of  a  better  tomorrow, 
and 
into  open-air 
cemeteries?  That  is  why  we  welcome  the  adoption  of 
the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants 
(resolution 71/1), which embodies our shared desire to 
find ways and means to arrive at a global pact for more 
effective and humane management of the issue of the 
mass  displacement  of  refugees  and  migrants.  We  are 
more  than  ever  convinced  that  refugees  and  migrants 
should  no  longer  be  seen  as  a  threat  but  rather  as  an 
opportunity,  not  just  for  themselves  but  also  for  their 
host countries and countries of origin, helping to bring 
peoples and nations closer together.
Climate  change 
is  a  major  concern  for  us. 
Burkina  Faso  therefore  welcomes  the  adoption  of  the 
Paris  Agreement  and  calls  for  its  ratification  by  all 
stakeholders.  We  hope  that  that  new  environmental 
pact will result in the developed countries significantly 
reducing their carbon emission levels and making good 
on their financial pledges so as to strengthen developing 
countries’  resilience  in  the  face  of  climate-related 
disasters.  The  2016  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change, to be held in Marrakesh in November, will be 
a milestone in that regard. Similarly, I also welcomed 
the  Third  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development,  held  in  Addis  Ababa  in  2015,  and  the 
8/28 
16-29559
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.15
Global Humanitarian Summit, held in May of this year in 
Istanbul, which enabled us to reiterate our commitments 
to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
America, and hopes that the process will culminate in 
definitive  normalization  and  an  end  to  the  economic, 
financial and trade embargo on Cuba.
therefore  welcomes 
We all know that peace, security and development 
are  inseparable.  That  is  why  Africa  has  thrown  itself 
into  efforts  to  seek  peace  and  strengthen  democracy. 
Burkina  Faso 
the  significant 
progress  recently  made  on  our  continent,  including 
the free and transparent elections in several countries. 
While  there  is  no  doubt  that  tensions  and  crises  still 
persist, we are confident that the political stakeholders 
in the countries concerned will be able to consolidate 
peace,  stability  and  security  and  promote  sustainable 
development.
The  security  situation  in  northern  Mali,  however, 
remains  a  source  of  great  concern  that  deserves  the 
international  community’s  full  attention,  both  on 
the  importance  of  operationalizing  the  new  mandate 
of  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in Mali as soon as possible and 
on  giving  serious  support  to  subregional  initiatives, 
including the operationalization of the G-5 Sahel’s rapid 
response  force.  The  international  community  should 
also  support  the  Government  of  Mali’s  establishment 
of  the  genuine  drivers  of  development  in  the  region. 
The same attention should be given to South Sudan and 
Somalia, so that they can finally turn the page on the 
violence,  conflicts  and  crises  that  have  plagued  their 
institutional  underpinnings  and  development  efforts. 
Based  on  its  respect  for  the  principle  of  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes, Burkina Faso reiterates its call 
for  a  negotiated  political  solution  to  the  question  of 
Western Sahara.
The  world  will  never  be  at  peace  as  long  as  the 
Middle East is not at peace. We call for a peaceful, just 
and equitable solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, 
based on two States, Israel and Palestine, living side by 
side in harmony, within secure and recognized borders. 
We  welcomed  the  efforts  of  the  peace  conference  for 
Israel and Palestine organized by France in June. With 
regard  to  Syria,  Iraq  and  Yemen,  we  urge  the  entire 
international  community  to  commit  to  the  quest  for 
genuine  peace,  which  must  be  based  on  respect  for 
international  law,  so  that  the  enormous  potential  of 
those  countries  can  be  harnessed  to  contribute  to  the 
welfare of their peoples and their region.
Burkina  Faso  also  welcomes  the  gradual  easing 
of  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of 
Regarding  another  significant  indicator  of  the 
world’s health, I would like to reiterate the importance 
of ensuring that the fight against HIV/AIDS continues 
to be active, as the risks of its resurgence, despite the 
progress that has been made, are enormous, owing to 
the rapid increase in young people as a percentage of 
the  population.  Burkina  Faso  remains  determined  to 
put  an  end  to  that  scourge  by  2030.  On  13  July,  we 
adopted a national strategic framework for combating 
HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections in order 
to focus our synergies and efforts on fighting sexually 
transmitted diseases for the period from 2016 to 2020. 
We welcome the holding of successive sessions of the 
high-level  meeting  on  the  subject,  as  well  as  the  21st 
International AIDS Conference, held in Durban in July. 
It  is  now  up  to  the  international  community  to  take 
ownership of the conclusions of those forums in order 
to be able to bequeath to future generations a world free 
of that pandemic.
Regarding  the  issue  of  general  disarmament, 
we  must  continue  our  efforts  to  build  trust  among 
our  States.  The  proliferation  of  small  arms  and  light 
weapons  poses  a  real  threat  to  peace  and  security 
and the development of States, particularly in Africa. 
That  threat  would  be  significantly  reduced  by  the 
implementation  of  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty.  Burkina 
Faso firmly supports the actions of the United Nations 
aimed at achieving general and complete disarmament, 
in  terms  of  both  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and 
conventional weapons.
After  the  71  years  of  its  existence,  it  is  vital  that 
we  undertake  responsible  and  balanced  reform  of  the 
United  Nations  if  we  are  to  achieve  an  international 
order that is more just, equitable and viable, based on 
a  dialogue  between  peoples  and  civilizations  and  a 
culture of sharing and solidarity. Where reform of the 
Security  Council  specifically  is  concerned,  Burkina 
Faso  reiterates  its  commitment  to  and  support  of  the 
African  position,  whose  sole  objective  is  to  repair  a 
historical injustice done to Africa.
This  year  we  have  the  weighty  responsibility 
of  appointing  a  new  Secretary-General  of  our 
Organization.  While  we  welcome  the  efforts  of  the 
President  to  contribute  to  the  transparency  of  the 
selection  process,  Burkina  Faso  urges  all  Member 
16-29559
9/28
A/71/PV.15 
22/09/2016
States to also offer their help and support to whomever 
is charged with this globally unique position, so that he 
or she can put his or her skills and leadership to work in 
the exclusive service of peace, justice and development 
for all. I wish all of us success in our work.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of Faso and President of the 
Council of Ministers of Burkina Faso for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Roch  Marc  Christian  Kaboré,  President  of 
Faso  and  President  of  the  Council  of  Ministers 
of  Burkina  Faso,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Gjorge Ivanov, President of the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  President  of  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia.
the 
Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President  of 
former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, was escorted into 
the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Gjorge Ivanov, President of the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Ivanov  (spoke  in  Macedonian;  English 
text provided by the delegation): I am truly honoured 
to  address  this  important  forum  as  President  of  the 
Republic of Macedonia and to share with the Assembly 
the Republic of Macedonia’s positions on the challenges 
facing us today.
The world is at a crossroads marked by numerous 
crises. We are in a period when fundamental changes 
are occurring in the world order. We are dealing with 
transformations  that  are  difficult  to  stop  or  control. 
The centrifugal forces of globalization are calling into 
question the order that was established after the Second 
World  War.  And  along  with  our  redefinition  of  that 
order,  we  are  redefining  its  values  and  principles.  In 
a world in which the powerful do whatever they want 
and  the  weak  do  whatever  they  must,  the  rule  of  law 
has become the exception rather than the rule. Instead 
of  international  security  and  order,  we  have  a  lack  of 
security and a lack of order. We have devalued the true 
and  inalienable  human  rights  and  freedoms.  Instead 
of  respect  for  diversity,  we  are  increasingly  seeing 
persecution and the destruction of diversity.
There are crises in many regions and at many levels. 
Conflicts are tending to spread and deepen faster than 
they  can  be  resolved  and  rooted  out.  Their  diagnosis 
is  often  belated,  and  the  measures  taken  are  reactive 
rather than preventive, resulting in short-term, painful 
decisions rather than long-term, less painful solutions. 
If we were to describe the situation in the world today 
in one word, it would be “instability”.
We have been openly fighting global terrorism since 
the  very  beginning  of  this  millennium.  The  Republic 
of Macedonia is part of a coalition that has destroyed 
many terrorist cells and won many battles in the past 
15 years, but we have not yet won the war against terror. 
In that regard, we are facing a serious challenge. Just 
like the mythical Hydra, for every terrorist cell that is 
destroyed, it seems as though two others appear in its 
place. 
Terrorism in the twenty-first century has developed 
the  ability  to  absorb  defeats,  withdraw,  regroup  and 
strike back. We are no longer dealing with organizations, 
but  with  movements  aiming  at  conquering  territories 
and  being  driven  by  ideas  going  far  beyond  ethnic, 
linguistic and cultural differences. In order to win the 
fight against terrorism, the use of military troops alone 
is not enough. It is necessary to fight using ideas and 
programmes to counter radicalization.
into  bloody  conflicts 
The  Middle  East,  North  Africa  and  many  other 
regions  are  crumbling 
in 
which  every  day  we  see  the  mosaic  of  communities 
with  different  religions,  languages  and  cultures,  so 
painstakingly  composed  and  cherished  for  centuries, 
being  destroyed.  Those  conflicts  have  given  rise  to 
threats,  risks,  humanitarian  crises  and  a  new  major 
movement of peoples.
On  the  other  hand,  a  new  reality  is  looming  on 
the  European  horizon.  Under  the  pressure  of  the 
financial and debt crisis, the social and political seams 
holding the European Union (EU) together are slowly 
beginning  to  rip.  By  erasing  internal  borders  without 
securing  its  corridors  in  the  process,  the  European 
Union  is  now  unable  to  protect  its  external  borders. 
Apart from other things, Europe is currently facing two 
key challenges — the migration crisis and the threat of 
terrorism.
10/28 
16-29559
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.15
The 
first  migration  wave  eroded  European 
institutions,  mechanisms  and  policies.  By  preventing 
illegal  migration,  the  Republic  of  Macedonia  has 
succeeded  in  contributing  to  a  large  extent  to  overall 
security in Europe. Europe is already facing a second, 
more massive wave. More than 20 million migrants and 
refugees from Asia and Africa are located very close to 
the external borders of Europe. In the coming years and 
decades, millions of migrants will try to set foot on the 
European  continent.  The  Republic  of  Macedonia  has 
blocked illegal migration from entering deeper into EU 
territory. The European Union must find modalities and 
mechanisms to protect its borders, secure the corridors 
and integrate the migrants and refugees who have been 
admitted, but without assimilating them in the process.
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  has  been  an 
independent country for 25 years now. Since the first 
day  of  our  independence,  we  have  faced  continuous 
and  direct  threats  coming  from  territories  of  the 
EU  and  NATO  member  States,  or  countries  under 
United  Nations  administration.  A  large  portion  of 
our  internal  risks  and  dangers  are  the  result  of  crises 
imposed  on  us  from  the  outside.  With  the  exception 
of  bilateral  assistance  —  for  which  we  are  more  than 
grateful — the Republic of Macedonia has been facing 
crises  and  reducing  risks  on  its  own.  We  are  taking 
measures and making decisions to protect our territory, 
and thereby also European territory. And for doing that, 
we have suffered criticism and threats in the form of the 
blocking of our integration processes. 
The  indecisiveness  of  the  EU  in  handling  the 
migration  crisis  has  jeopardized  the  security  of  the 
Republic  of  Macedonia.  We  were  the  first  country  in 
Europe to declare a state of crisis and to deploy army 
troops  along  the  borders.  As  Supreme  Commander,  I 
am proud to say that with our crisis management system 
and a timely reaction, we have succeeded in protecting 
the national security of the Republic of Macedonia. 
I  am  aware,  however,  that  many  in  Europe  are 
thankful  for  what  the  Republic  of  Macedonia  has 
been  doing  for  them.  Some  are  braver  and  recognize 
that  fact,  some  are  less  brave,  but  I  believe  that  they 
still  respect  what  we  have  been  doing.  The  attitudes 
towards  migrants,  so  far,  have  even  created  ghettos 
without  walls  in  some  European  countries,  in  which 
those  who  are  different  are  tolerated  without  ever 
being truly respected or accepted. Such attitudes have 
led  to  isolationism  and  alienation  and  have  generated 
breeding grounds for radicalism, violent extremism and 
terrorism.
This  year,  the  United  Nations  will  elect  a  new 
Secretary-General.  The  Republic  of  Macedonia  has 
nominated a former President of the General Assembly, 
Mr.  Srgjan  Kerim,  for  that  high-profile  position.  We 
appreciate the efforts to make the process a transparent 
one that considers only the merits of each candidate. The 
selection process has already begun within the Security 
Council. On this occasion, I would like to wish the best 
of  luck  to  Mr.  Kerim  and  reiterate  the  desirability  of 
electing the new Secretary-General from the ranks of 
the  Group  of  Eastern  European  States.  At  the  same 
time, I wish to thank the current Secretary-General, my 
friend Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his unrelenting efforts to 
tackle the various challenges we face, but also to reform 
the Organization.
However,  as  we  discuss  the  reform  of  one  of 
the  most  important  elements  of  the  United  Nations 
system, we seem to forget that even the very goals of 
the Organization have been brought into question. We 
talk  about  human  rights  while  neglecting  one  of  the 
fundamental rights — the right to freedom of thought, 
conscience and religion. The persecution of people of 
different faiths and beliefs is becoming more and more 
visible, not only in non-secular, but also in developed 
secular  societies.  Under  the  current  circumstances, 
some  even  ask  whether,  today,  the  United  Nations 
would ever be able to adopt the Universal Declaration 
on Human Rights. 
The  Organization  represents  all  countries  with 
all  of 
their  differences.  However,  when  making 
compromises, we should be careful not to compromise 
the  fundamental  values,  freedoms  and  vision  of  the 
Organization. That vision is written in both the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Universal  Declaration 
on  Human  Rights.  Even  Seneca,  when  explaining  the 
essence of a city — in other words, a State — said: 
“The  strength  and  security  of  cities  are  based  on 
two things — the material from which houses are 
built and the laws that regulate relations.” 
A city is destroyed every time one of these two things 
is lacking. Owing to double standards and the lack of 
respect for international law, our international order is 
slowly devolving into global chaos and disorder.
In  our  quarter  of  a  century  of  independence,  the 
Republic of Macedonia has been well and truly able to 
16-29559
11/28
A/71/PV.15 
22/09/2016
feel that cruel reality. On our path towards international 
recognition  and  integration,  we  have  faced  many 
blockages  and  suffered  much  injury.  We  have  even 
had to deal with the denial of our right, as Macedonian 
citizens,  to  self-identification,  without  which  there  is 
no human integrity or dignity. Owing to that problem, 
even  today,  we  are  still  blocked  in  our  efforts  to  join 
international  organizations,  such  as  NATO  and  the 
European  Union.  For  five  years  now,  the  Republic 
of  Macedonia  has  been  waiting  for  the  international 
community to observe and respect the judgment of the 
International Court of Justice.
During the past few days, members of the Assembly 
have heard many statesmen speaking about the need to 
respect international law, and there will be just as many 
that  will  immediately  forget  what  they  were  urging, 
once  they  step  away  from  the  podium.  The  judgment 
handed  down  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
regarding  the  name  dispute  between  Macedonia  and 
Greece  was  delivered  five  years  ago,  as  I  reminded 
members  of  the  Assembly  two  years  ago,  but  that 
judgment has not been respected to this day. And that is 
one of the classic examples of the lack of effectiveness 
of our world Organization.
The  indecisiveness  of  the  European  Union  and 
NATO  in  failing  to  unblock  the  integration  of  the 
Republic  of  Macedonia  was  one  of  the  main  reasons 
for the perpetual internal political crisis in Macedonia, 
which reached a climax this year. However, the Republic 
of  Macedonia  is  not  an  exception.  The  entire  Balkan 
region  is  in  stagnation.  We  see  retrograde  processes 
reappearing. The Balkan States believed, quite naively, 
that someone from the outside would solve all of their 
problems,  and  the  EU  obviously  does  not  have  such 
power.
Ms.  Kasese-Bota  (Zambia),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Even in such complex circumstances, the Republic 
of Macedonia is doing its utmost to maintain the best 
possible  relations  with  its  neighbours.  With  Greece, 
we  have  a  difference  that  is  subject  to  a  process  led 
by the United Nations. The two of us, as neighbouring 
countries, have one open issue, but thousands of areas 
of common interest and serious challenges, such as the 
migration  crisis  or  security,  which  point  to  the  need 
for  close  cooperation.  The  name  dispute  must  not  be 
allowed  to  impede  maximum  cooperation  in  all  areas 
of common interest. But precious time has been lost.
I therefore welcome confidence-building measures 
between the two countries, and I call for their expansion 
and  the  introduction  of  new  content.  The  sooner  we 
deliver on those measures, the sooner we will be able to 
create a positive ambiance, so that we can find a solution 
to the issue of our name dispute within the framework 
of the Interim Accord, United Nations resolutions and 
the judgment of the International Court of Justice.
I  am  a  Macedonian,  my  fellow  citizens  are 
Macedonians,  and  I  am  speaking  in  the  Macedonian 
language  from  this  rostrum,  which  is  why  we  ask 
everyone  to  respect  us  as  Macedonians,  just  as  we 
respect everyone else’s right to identify themselves as 
they feel. We respect the right to self-identification and 
human dignity of everyone else, and in the same way 
we ask for that to apply to us as well. As Macedonians, 
we  wish  to  cooperate  and  to  have  the  best  possible 
relationship  with  all  of  our  neighbours.  There  is  no 
problem  that  cannot  be  solved  and  no  difference  that 
cannot be overcome. The only precondition is to respect 
one another and to reach solutions through dialogue.
Next  year, 
the  Republic  of  Macedonia  will 
host  the  Brdo-Brijuni  Process,  an  initiative  that  is 
slowly  replacing  declarative  regional  initiatives  and 
mechanisms. My wish is to have the Prime Minister of 
Greece be a special guest at the summit.
I  spoke  about  some  fundamental  changes  in  the 
world  that  are  divisive,  dangerous  and  disorienting. 
However, the problem does not lie in those conditions. 
They  are  only  the  consequences  of  an  accumulation 
of  wrong  positions,  decisions  and  steps.  That  is  why 
humankind  has  lost  its  way  in  a  labyrinth  of  crises. 
That is also why we should not be caught off guard by 
the crisis with respect to trust in political elites and in 
the global order itself.
As  humankind,  we  have  succeeded  in  achieving 
amazing  scientific  and  technological  developments 
that  have  paved  the  way  for  progress,  simultaneously 
consuming  all  our  free  time  and  along  with  that  the 
possibility  of  deeper  thinking  and  contemplation.  We 
thought ourselves to be the masters of nature, but we 
could  not  even  overcome  our  own  greed.  This  is  a 
time  of  consumerism,  moral  relativism  and  extreme 
individualism.  We  have  disturbed  the  fragile  climate 
balance,  the  balance  between  humankind  and  nature, 
thus  jeopardizing  the  future  of  our  descendants.  The 
Sustainable Development Goals, which the Republic of 
Macedonia fully supports, must correct that error. As a 
12/28 
16-29559
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.15
signatory to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, 
the  Republic  of  Macedonia  has  already  established 
its  national  priorities  and  contributions  with  regard 
to  climate  change.  The  problem  goes  much  deeper, 
though. It is high time that we try to find our way out of 
the labyrinth of crises.
As  President,  but  also  as  a  university  professor,  I 
always listen to the voices of young people. I know very 
well the challenges that they are facing. The potential 
of  youth  is  still  restricted  by  a  multitude  of  not  only 
political  but  also  mental,  economic  and  educational 
barriers.  Young  people  around  the  world  still  do  not 
have  equal  opportunities  for  high-quality  education 
and  employment,  and  they  also  suffer  from  the  cruel 
rules of the international market.
For a long time, we have been the ones to decide on 
the future of youth, without allowing them to be part 
of  the  decision-making  process.  We  took  their  needs, 
requests and wishes for granted, all the while expecting 
them to follow the rules of the game that we had created 
for  them,  without  prior  consultation.  This  is  perhaps 
the reason why many global, regional and local policies 
were not supported by young people and remained on 
paper only. It is time for this to change. We need policies 
that are not only about youth, but ones that involve their 
participation. We need policies for youth, by youth.
Let me give an example. This year, in the framework 
of  the  School  of  Young  Leaders,  held  under  my 
patronage for seven years in a row, young people from 
the Republic of Macedonia and from the wider region 
were all part of an “idea laboratory” in which they were 
able to develop projects on sustainable development; the 
promotion  and  development  of  public  administration; 
infrastructure,  educational  and  health-care  issues; 
boosting  employment;  and  reducing  poverty.  Such 
projects  should  be  supported  and  promoted,  and  in 
that  respect  I  have  already  initiated  contact  with  the 
relevant entities in the World Bank. These are projects 
involving  innovative  ideas  and  creative  solutions  for 
youth, who are not slaves to the old worldview, which is 
slowly disappearing.
We are aware that the 2030 Sustainable Development 
Agenda  is  not  a  ready-made  recipe  for  achieving 
greater well-being, a better life for our citizens, a more 
democratic society or a healthier environment for future 
generations, but it does contain solid guidelines on how 
to realize these goals. However, even here we are facing 
a  paradox.  We  now  have  an  international  system  that 
is trying to bring about sustainable development while 
encountering difficulty in maintaining itself.
Young people are a generation of new technologies, 
a  generation  experiencing  the  advantages  of  global 
interconnection.  Young  people  are  already  living  in 
a  world  that  provides  access  to  an  enormous  amount 
of  information.  Let  us  allow  them  to  introduce  their 
idealism  and  perceptions  into  regional  and  global 
initiatives  and  organizations.  Let  us  allow  them  to 
introduce their new, fresh views into the new realities 
in  which  we  live,  unburdened  by  the  prejudices  from 
the past. The past should be a place of reference, not a 
place of residence.
There  is  a  saying  that  humankind  is  at  its  best 
when  it  has  the  highest  degree  of  freedom.  However, 
without laws, there is no freedom, only anarchy. If we 
wish  to  leave  a  safer  world  to  future  generations,  we 
must  respect  international  law.  But  we  must  also  go 
back to the highest and most enduring moral principles 
and  values,  including  respect  for  and  acceptance  of 
diversity.
Often we invent new ideals because we are afraid 
of  the  old  ones.  We  look  to  the  future  with  great 
enthusiasm  because  we  are  afraid  to  look  back  to  the 
past.  But  on  the  dusty  shelves  of  the  past,  besides 
conflicts,  prejudice  and  enmities,  we  might  also  find 
models that enabled peaceful coexistence, respect and 
acceptance of diversity. One of them is our very own 
Macedonian model of integration without assimilation.
Part  of  the  task  of  the  United  Nations  Alliance 
of Civilizations is to find such models, promote them 
and make them applicable to today’s modern, dynamic 
world.  We  must  assist  them  in  this  respect  so  as  to 
learn once again how to live with our deepest ethnic, 
religious, cultural and ideological differences.
A philosopher once said that there might have been 
better  times.  However,  this  is  our  time,  and  we  are 
responsible  for  it.  We  have  to  think  about  those  who 
will come after us, the youth. We must not be afraid, 
because fear is a filter through which we perceive only 
threats and not the possibilities that are before our very 
eyes.
Changing our vision in order to make it correspond 
to reality is the easiest thing to do. The hardest part is 
to change reality in order to make it correspond to the 
noble vision of the United Nations. Part of that vision 
involves  finding  a  way  to  promote  global  governance 
16-29559
13/28
A/71/PV.15 
22/09/2016
and  order  without  establishing  a  world  government 
and  predominance  of  the  powerful,  and  how  to  lay 
the foundations for a true multi-ethnic, multireligious 
and multilingual international society that is free, just, 
stable and safe.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Gjorge  Ivanov,  President  of 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 
the 
Address by Ms. Hilda C. Heine, President of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Republic of the 
Marshall Islands.
Ms.  Hilda  C.  Heine,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
the Marshall Islands, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations Her Excellency Ms. Hilda C. Heine, President 
of  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands,  and  to  invite 
her to address the Assembly. 
President Heine: I have the honour to convey the 
warm greetings of “Yokwe” on behalf of the people and 
the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Every  year,  world  leaders  gather  at  the  United 
Nations  to  strengthen  that  which  binds  us  all:  that 
despite our vast differences, the fact is that we get more 
done when we work together and when we cooperate. 
As  leaders,  we  know  and  accept  that  our  efforts  to 
improve  the  well-being  of  our  peoples  cannot,  in  the 
end, be at the expense of others, and we simply cannot 
leave any one behind.
To  us  as  a  low-lying  island  nation,  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  demonstrates  that 
international spirit of cooperation and interdependency. 
I used to be a teacher, so I implore those Member States 
that have not ratified the Paris Agreement to do their 
next homework from this week. It is imperative that the 
Paris Agreement enter into force this year. I know that 
the  Agreement  is  not  perfect.  We  need  to  do  more  to 
increase our commitments on mitigation, on adaptation 
and  on  finance.  We  must  take  every  opportunity  to 
remain below the 1.5°C limit needed for our survival.
I congratulate Mr. Thomson on his election as the 
first President of the General Assembly from a Pacific 
island country.
I  am  addressing  the  Assembly  today  as  the  first 
female leader of an independent Pacific island nation. In 
the Pacific, women and mothers are often at the heart of 
our communities, and they ensure resilience. If women 
do not plan for the long-term, families and communities 
will not thrive. It follows that, if Pacific island nations 
fail  to  plan,  the  rest  of  the  world  will  suffer  the  loss 
of  our  vast  fisheries  and  oceans.  If  world  leaders  act 
only for short-term gain, we will rob our youngest and 
future generations of their rightful inheritance.
I have travelled to the United Nations to share our 
Marshallese  story  of  how  we,  a  small  island  nation 
and  a  large-ocean  State,  are  defining  our  future  on 
our  own  terms.  As  a  former  United  Nations  Trust 
Territory, whose well-being was once entrusted to this 
very Organization, it is important that we not take this 
journey  alone,  but  with  the  firm  partnership  of  the 
international community.
First, our broad progress must be built on education 
in  order  to  ensure  that  our  young  people  have  the 
tools  to  lead  our  future.  We  must,  therefore,  achieve 
Sustainable Development Goal 4, on quality education. 
As  an  educator,  I  know  how  important  it  is  that  we 
turn  around  low  indicators  and  provide  an  adequate 
education to all, not only by continuing to improve our 
teacher  qualifications,  but  by  designing  a  curriculum 
that  also  emphasizes  our  Marshallese  language  and 
ways  of  being.  We  must  define  ourselves  in  our  own 
words  and  through  our  own  customs.  I  am  proud  to 
announce  a  new  research  partnership  with  Columbia 
University Teachers College that will not only assist us 
with bilingual education, but also inspire us to serve as 
a model for others around the world.
Secondly, our future must be underpinned by our 
economic  security  and  progress  towards  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  1,  to  end  poverty,  Goal  8,  on 
economic growth and Goal 10, to reduce inequality. For 
too long, we have been largely reliant on the assistance 
of others. While that has provided an important backstop 
for  basic  social  development,  it  has  also  undermined 
our self-reliance. We face serious challenges as a small 
island State, but we also have unexplored potential for 
growth.
14/28 
16-29559
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.15
We  must  move  towards  a  serious  expansion  of 
the  private  sector  so  as  to  create  jobs  and  strengthen 
our  national  benefit  from  our  sustainable  resources, 
especially our fisheries, our role as a port State, tourism 
and copra exports. As we consider all of the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) — as we think all the way 
out  to  2030  and  consider  the  mid-points,  including 
2023  —  we  must  not  only  have  an  ambitious  policy, 
but  also  define  the  solid  financial  pathway  needed  to 
get there. 
Right now, our short-term economic risk up to and 
beyond  2023  is  simply  unacceptable,  as  we  transition 
to  a  new  trust  fund.  Recently,  much  has  been  said 
at  the  United  Nations  about  innovative  finance  and 
building  development  and  resiliency  through  private 
investment. Instead of doubting how that applies to my 
nation,  I  issue  a  stark  challenge  to  ourselves  and  our 
partners to work closely with us in order to chart our 
new economic future to 2023 and beyond, with creative 
solutions to difficult problems. If we are truly serious 
about tackling the SDGs, let us truly find solutions for 
island-tailored innovative finance.
Thirdly, our national growth and well-being must 
be driven by a commitment to improve delivery on basic 
social  development  —  health,  food  security  and  the 
environment. In particular, the most vulnerable groups 
in our islands, especially the elderly, the disabled and 
single parents, should be targeted. The Marshall Islands 
has the highest rate of diabetes incidence in the world. It 
is a national crisis, and our consumption of sugary food 
and beverages is literally killing us. Our environment 
is challenged by the overwhelming amount of plastic, 
metal  cans  and  trappings  of  the  modern  Western 
world.  And,  as  if  our  local  communities  do  not  have 
enough challenges, our vulnerability to natural hazards 
and  climate-driven  events  like  droughts  and  coastal 
flooding  will  be  far  worse  in  the  future,  even  with 
strong efforts to curb global emissions under the Paris 
Agreement.
Even  with  the  issue  of  our  very  survival  on  the 
line, we are committed to addressing those challenges 
with  immediate  action,  working  on  SDG  Goal  7,  on 
affordable energy, Goal 3, on good health, Goal 6, on 
clean water and Goal 11, on sustainable communities. In 
order to counter diabetes, our Parliament is considering 
a  sharp  increase  of  import  taxes  on  sugar-added 
beverages.  We  are  taking  forward  and  implementing, 
with  international  support,  a  disaster-risk-reduction 
plan  and  measures.  Our  Parliament  is  considering  a 
national  ban  on  plastic  bags  and  the  introduction  of 
recycling in order to clean up our local communities and 
provide a modest income stream along the way. We are 
tasking our environment agency with addressing water 
quality and water security. We are moving on practical 
measures to reduce our costly reliance on oil through 
sustainable transport and more efficient and renewable 
energy forms. We cannot — and will not — ignore our 
pressing future risks.
As  in  many  parts  of  the  world,  sadly,  domestic 
violence is a serious issue in the Pacific. SDG 5 commits 
States to ending worldwide domestic violence against 
women and girls, and my Government is moving forward 
with a commitment to building safe houses — the first 
one to be known as Weto In Mour — for abused women. 
It may be that the Pacific and the world must adjust to 
a  new  era,  when  the  voices  of  women  and  girls  gain 
their  rightful  place  in  communities  and  homes  and  at 
all levels of politics, from local politics to the United 
Nations.
Our Pacific Ocean defines us and underpins SDG  
14, on oceans. If we fail to conserve and realize a more 
equitable return from our rich fisheries, not only will 
our future be threatened, but global food security could 
be undermined. We are committed to the protection and 
sustainable  use  of  our  fisheries  and  ocean  resources, 
but our good intentions are not enough. It is well past 
time that distant fishing nations and the global super-
Powers who dominate our fisheries look beyond their 
plenary  statements  and  into  the  real-world  impact  of 
many of their negotiating positions.
Marshallese  have  been  coming  to  the  United 
Nations  for  nearly  65  years  to  focus  greater  attention 
on the harm caused by nuclear-weapons testing, with a 
legacy and burden shared by few others. And we remain 
the  only  instance  in  which  the  United  Nations  ever 
authorized the specific use of nuclear-weapons testing, 
in  Trusteeship  Council  resolutions  1082  (XIV)  and 
1493 (XVII), a fact which the United Nations has never 
acknowledged.  Not  many  people  in  the  world  know 
of our own bitter experiences with nuclear detonation 
and  what  those  weapons  did  to  my  country  and  the 
Marshallese people.
Most  of  us  think  of  nuclear  weapons  only  as 
weapons of mass destruction; they conjure up wartime 
images of levelled buildings and the incineration of all 
living things. But how many people in the world have 
truly  experienced  what  we  have  —  physical,  mental, 
16-29559
15/28
A/71/PV.15 
22/09/2016
environmental  and  cultural  burdens  that  last  for 
generations,  and  the  displacement  of  our  people  from 
their  ancestral  islands?  Those  are  not  mere  historical 
events.  As  a  Special  Rapporteur  affirmed  in  2012, 
they  are  fundamental  human  rights  issues  and  the 
international community “has an ongoing obligation to 
encourage  a  final  and  just  resolution”  (A/HRC/21/48/
Add.1, para 66(a)). 
Words  without  action  are  of  no  benefit  to  our 
people.  I  am  committing  my  Administration 
to 
renewing the focus on nuclear-impact issues. And I feel 
that I have every right not only to ask but to demand the 
full assistance of the international community and the 
United Nations system and tangible results from them. 
In the light of our experience, it is our fervent hope that 
such weapons of mass destruction will never again be 
tested or unleashed and that all nuclear-armed nations 
will  have  the  necessary  political  will  and  empathy  to 
disarm,
I  appeal  to  the  Government  of  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  North  Korea  to  halt  any  further  nuclear-
weapons tests and to achieve full nuclear disarmament.
Finally,  my  Government  will  follow  through  on 
our  commitment  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  with 
respect  to  achieving  SDG  16  for  justice.  We  will 
advance  core  human  rights  treaties  for  ratification  at 
the next session of our Parliament. Many such treaties 
are  already  reflected  in  our  Constitution  and  affirm 
basic freedoms enjoyed worldwide. Those basic rights, 
our national plan, the Sustainable Development Goals 
and  the  identification  of  major  national  challenges 
and  priority  reforms  included  in  my  Administration’s 
Agenda  2020:  A  Framework  for  Progress  for  the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands must all be addressed 
in a comprehensive effort.
I have spent most of my speech today urging that 
no one be left behind and demonstrating our goodwill 
to  play  our  part.  I  must  also  emphasize  that  the  role 
of  Taiwan  as  a  key  stakeholder  and  its  determination 
to  contribute 
to  global  affairs  should  be  better 
recognized.  I  call  on  the  international  community  to 
support Taiwan’s efforts as an advocate for regional and 
global stability, peace and dialogue, including in cross-
Strait  relations.  The  United  Nations  should  be  more 
committed  to  ensuring  Taiwan’s  fundamental  right 
to  participate  in  mechanisms,  meetings  and  activities 
of  the  specialized  agencies  of  the  United  Nations 
system, and Taiwan should be recognized for its strong 
contribution  in  working  with  us  and  others  towards 
achieving the SDGs.
Given  the  importance  of  human  rights  to  my 
country,  I  request  that  the  Human  Rights  Council 
initiate  a  credible  and  independent  investigation  of 
alleged human rights violations in West Papua.
Let me close by saying that we must turn words into 
reality and move forward with a renewed and sharper 
focus on long-held priorities. This is a commitment of 
my  Government,  and  I  urgently  call  for  international 
partnership.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of  the  Marshall  Islands  for  the  statement  she  has  just 
made.
Ms. Hilda Heine, President of the Republic of the 
Marshall  Islands,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Manuel Domingos Vicente, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Angola
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Vice-President of the Republic 
of Angola.
Mr.  Manuel  Domingos  Vicente,  Vice-President  of 
the Republic of Angola, was escorted to the rostrum
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Manuel  Domingos 
Vicente, Vice-President of the Republic of Angola, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Vicente (Angola) (spoke in Portuguese; English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  a  great  honour 
to speak on behalf of the President of the Republic of 
Angola,  His  Excellency  José  Eduardo  dos  Santos,  in 
the General Assembly, which seeks to address and find 
solutions to the multidimensional challenges facing the 
world.
The  General  Assembly  is  indeed  a  privileged 
forum  whose  aim  is  to  find  solutions  to  the  most 
pressing international problems, to preserve peace, to 
strengthen collective security and to help renounce the 
use of force in international relations, while respecting 
the sovereignty of States, the protection and promotion 
16/28 
16-29559
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.15
of human rights and the reaffirmation of the rule of law 
as fundamental principles of the international system.
During  the  seven  decades  of  existence  of  the 
United Nations, there have been transformations in all 
aspects of life, such as a radical change in the nature of 
conflicts, international terrorism at unspeakable levels 
and  unprecedented  climate  change.  Those  changes 
naturally require joint reflection on the role and future 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  need  an  Organization 
capable of promoting international peace and security, 
acting quickly and effectively in conflict situations and 
addressing  the  most  pressing  challenges  of  our  time. 
If  for  no  other  reason,  these  issues  should  provide  an 
incentive  to  accelerate  reforms  aimed  at  revitalizing 
the  United  Nations  system,  in  particular  the  Security 
Council. 
In  fact,  reforming  the  Council  is  not  merely 
optional but an imperative, and failure to carry it out 
could  hinder  the  ability  of  the  United  Nations  to  act, 
thereby eroding its legitimacy and credibility.
The Republic of Angola is in favour of increasing 
the  number  of  both  permanent  and  non-permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council  in  order  to  make  it 
more  representative  and  better  equipped  in  its  ability 
to respond to conflicts. For this reason, we reaffirm the 
right of the African continent to be represented among 
the permanent members of Security Council, as stated 
in the Ezulwini Consensus. We believe that the spirit 
of openness to dialogue, tolerance and common sense 
is  key  to  solving  the  problems  that  currently  plague 
humankind.
In  this  context,  the  Republic  of  Angola,  which 
currently  holds  the  presidency  of  the  International 
Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region,  has  been 
engaged, in both the United Nations Security Council 
and  the  African  Union  Peace  and  Security  Council, 
in  seeking  bilateral  and  multilateral  solutions  to 
the  problems  affecting  the  region.  In  this  regard,  we 
reaffirm  our  determination  to  continue  to  support 
and promote dialogue, peace, security and stability in 
Central Africa and throughout the Great Lakes region 
of Africa.
We welcome the successful conclusion of the peace 
and electoral processes in the Central African Republic, 
which  have  enabled  the  country  to  start  a  new  era. 
Their new era requires support from the international 
community in order to promote national reconstruction 
and consolidate the country’s institutions. 
In  South  Sudan,  the  completion  of  the  dialogue 
represents an important step towards the establishment 
of peace and the formation of a government of national 
unity to resolve the crisis in that country. The parties 
should  be  encouraged  to  honour  their  commitments, 
and  the  international  community  should  maintain  its 
support for the peace process.
With regard to Burundi, we call for the intensification 
of the dialogue for peace and urge respect for the legally 
established authority in order to overcome the impasse 
created  by  the  post-electoral  conflict.  It  is  important 
to  promote  good  neighbourliness  and  mutual  security 
along the border separating Burundi from the adjacent 
countries. 
In  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  we 
encourage support for the electoral process in order to 
ensure peaceful and free elections, the preservation of 
peace and stability, the reconciliation process and the 
consolidation of democracy. In fact, peaceful elections 
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo are vital for 
peace,  stability  and  development  in  the  entire  Great 
Lakes  region  of  Africa.  Both  the  United  Nations  and 
the African Union should devote special attention to the 
crises in Libya, Mali, the Central African Republic, the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  Sudan,  South 
Sudan, Somalia and Burundi.
that 
the 
combines 
We  are  facing  a  troubled  international  political 
environment 
escalation  of 
conflicts — especially in the Middle East — with threats 
and constant episodes of violence that the international 
community  has  not  been  able  to  adequately  address. 
Terrorism, a phenomenon that merits relentless combat, 
is  the  most  extreme  form  of  these  threats.  The  world 
seems unprepared to deal with the ability of non-State 
groups  and  individuals  eager  to  generate  terror.  The 
conflicts in Libya, Syria and Iraq in particular call for 
speedy  resolution  owing  to  their  grave  humanitarian 
repercussions. 
The causes of those conflicts reside in the serious 
violations  of  the  fundamental  rights  of  the  people 
involved and in foreign intervention, which has proved 
disastrous in its attempts to change the regime through 
the artificial imposition of supposed democracy, while 
the forced displacement of thousands of human beings 
that  we  see  today  constitutes  a  heartbreaking  reality 
of  human  degradation  and  an  offence  against  human 
dignity that demands an immediate and comprehensive 
response by the international community.
16-29559
17/28
A/71/PV.15 
22/09/2016
We  recall  that  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the  United  Nations  Charter  must  be  respected  by  all 
Member States in all processes being implemented in 
the United Nations system. For this reason, it is worth 
highlighting that the process of détente between Cuba 
and  the  United  States  of  America  continues  to  need 
support from the international community. We welcome 
the  re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  between 
the  two  countries,  which  we  hope  will  translate  to 
the lifting of the economic, commercial and financial 
blockade against Cuba.
I  would  like  to  state  that  the  Republic  of  Angola 
is  firmly  committed  to  implementing  the  Goals  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  by 
adopting appropriate measures at the national level, to 
be implemented over the next 15 years, for the benefit 
of our people and our planet and to promote prosperity, 
stability  and  peace.  To  this  end,  Angola  considers 
it  important  for  all  Member  States  to  take  a  holistic, 
integrated  and  comprehensive  approach  in  all  sectors 
and at all levels in order to maintain the universal and 
inclusive nature of the Sustainable Development Goals.
Climate  change  is  one  of  the  most  complex  and 
urgent  issues  of  domestic  and  foreign  policy  that  we 
face  today  because  of  its  impact  on  migration,  food 
security,  natural  resources,  the  spread  of  epidemics 
and even on social and economic instability. Thus the 
2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change is a valuable, 
ambitious, balanced and fair tool for action whose entry 
into  force  will  encourage  collective  efforts  to  control 
global warming. 
The Republic of Angola emits only 0.17 per cent of 
all  greenhouse  gases.  However,  the  effects  of  climate 
change are already being felt by us in many ways, such 
as the deterioration and shortening of cycles of drought 
and  heavy  rainfall,  which  pose  a  risk  to  agriculture 
and  to  economic  and  social  infrastructures.  Such 
effects also increase the incidence of various endemic 
diseases. It is therefore our intention to ratify the Paris 
Agreement  as  soon  as  possible  as  testimony  to  our 
unequivocal commitment and contribution to achieving 
its objectives. For similar reasons, we are motivated to 
participate in the third United Nations Conference on 
Housing  and  Sustainable  Urban  Development,  which 
will  be  held  in  Quito  in  October.  The  Conference 
represents an opportunity for us to adopt a new global 
urban  agenda  to  promote  strong  links  and  synergies 
among  urbanization,  sustainable  development  and 
climate change.
The Republic of Angola is committed to three cross-
cutting  processes  it  considers  of  crucial  importance: 
women and peace and security, peacekeeping operations 
and peacebuilding architecture. We recognize the vital 
role of women and the importance of their participation 
in all stages and levels of the peace process.
I  would  be  remiss  not  to  mention  here  that  the 
Republic  of  Angola  is  a  stable  country  from  the 
perspectives  of  political  and  social  conditions,  and 
this  has  helped  it  to  consolidate  its  unity,  its  national 
reconciliation  process  and  its  institutions.  On  the 
economic  front,  the  challenges  are  greater  today  as 
a result of volatility in the prices of raw materials on 
the  international  market.  But  we  continue  to  work  to 
adjust our action plans, as well as to find pathways to 
economic growth and the improvement of the lives of 
our people. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  Mr.  Peter 
Thomson  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  it  seventy-first  session  and  to 
assure him of Angola’s firm support during his tenure. 
I  wish  to  congratulate  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  for  his 
excellent  work  during  the  seventieth  session.  Let  me 
also express our deep appreciation to Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for dedicating his talent and wisdom to 
the service of the United Nations for the past 10 years 
and  making  a  tangible  contribution  to  international 
peace and security and to a safer world for present and 
future generations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Angola for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Manuel  Domingos  Vicente,  Vice-President 
of  the  Republic  of  Angola,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Jimmy Morales, President of the 
Republic of Guatemala
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guatemala.
Mr.  Jimmy  Morales,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Jimmy Morales, President 
18/28 
16-29559
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.15
of  the  Republic  of  Guatemala,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Morales  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  would 
like to begin my statement by congratulating Mr. Peter 
Thomson  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its seventy-first session, thanking 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  for  his  work  at  the  previous 
session  and  commending  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-
Moon for his leadership in ushering in the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development. 
This  year,  Guatemala 
two 
anniversaries that have characterized the political life 
of our country: 30 years of the Esquipulas peace process 
in  Central  America,  and  20  years  since  the  signature 
on 29 December 1996 of the Agreement on a firm and 
lasting  peace.  The  Esquipulas  agreements  opened  the 
door to political dialogue and negotiations and closed 
it  to  a  geopolitical  conflagration  of  unimaginable 
consequences in Central America.
is 
celebrating 
The  peace  agreements  in  Guatemala  marked  not 
only  the  definitive  ceasefire  but  also  the  creation 
of  an  agenda  of  far-reaching  legal,  institutional  and 
cultural  reforms.  Guatemala  has  evolved  since  then, 
and  the  path  to  fulfilling  those  agreements  has  made 
a significant contribution to the country’s development 
and modernization. 
Nonetheless, 
some  commitments  have  been 
postponed or are lagging, and now is precisely the time 
to evaluate and revitalize them. I am referring to critical 
issues,  such  as  the  identity  and  rights  of  indigenous 
people,  rural  development  and  the  participation  of 
women in all spheres of our society.
We  acknowledge  and  are  grateful  for  the  support 
received  from  the  United  Nations  and  the  Office  of 
the  Secretary-General,  from  the  peace  negotiation 
process  to  the  monitoring  of  the  implementation  of 
the  agreements  concluded  by  the  parties,  including 
valuable  support  for  the  strengthening  of  democratic 
institutions.  We  recognize  that  the  United  Nations 
devoted an entire decade of laudable and patient efforts 
to the building of peace in my country.
malaise  was  expressed  democraticall,  and  I  can  state 
firmly that, after five consecutive months of peaceful 
demonstrations  in  town  squares,  the  rule  of  law 
operates more robustly now than it did a year ago, and 
the people, who week after week took to the streets to 
protest  and  make  their  just  and  ethical  demands,  are 
now more confident in their own transformative power 
and their ability to create a different kind of country.
The  International  Commission  against  Impunity 
in  Guatemala  played  a  catalysing  and  important  role 
in  changing  the  course  of  our  country’s  history.  The 
Commission  is  a  Guatemalan  initiative  that  was 
duly  welcomed  by  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Secretariat.  It  has  become  one  of  the  most  efficient 
tools of  multilateral cooperation in the fight against the 
networks  of  crime  and  corruption  that  have  co-opted 
strategic parts of States that, like Guatemala, have been 
challenged by the geopolitics of transnational organized 
crime. 
My  Government,  which  took  office  in  January, 
owes its existence to the citizens’ rejection of the old 
way of conducting politics. It represents the hope for a 
return to democratic governance that is ethically based 
on the common good and not on subordination to special 
interests. Such are the expectations that our honourable 
citizenry has placed in me. I must now strive to be the 
worthy son of such people by doing my bit in the moral 
and material reconstruction of the nation. 
To meet the wishes of our citizens in their quest to 
transform the country, my Government has identified 
five 
transparency,  health  care, 
education, security and development. 
strategic  areas: 
With  regard  to  transparency,  we  have  committed 
to a policy of zero tolerance on corruption. To that end, 
open government has become a fundamental pillar of our 
Administration,  based  on  transparency,  collaboration 
and  participation,  and  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of 
the  inter-American  and  United  Nations  conventions 
against corruption. We know that corruption hampers 
development, weakens institutions and undermines the 
modernization  of  the  State.  That  is  why  it  is  vital  to 
combat that scourge.
The  year  2015  changed  the  course  of  history  in 
Guatemala.  The  people  of  Guatemala  demonstrated 
their  profound  malaise  with  the  State  authorities  that 
were  betraying  the  Constitution.  They  categorically 
rejected  the  perverse  system  of  corruption  that  had 
been  sabotaging  our  development  potential.  Their 
With regard to public health, we are promoting the 
necessary reforms through strategic efforts focused on 
improving  access  for  everyone  and  making  primary 
care the core of the system. We are restoring the supply 
of medicines and the efficient funcioning of hospitals 
and  strengthening  our  human  resource  capacity.  My 
16-29559
19/28
A/71/PV.15 
22/09/2016
Government’s  priorities 
include  reducing  chronic 
malnutrition  in  children  under  five  and  maternal 
mortality. Today, we must sadly acknowledge that 5 out 
of every 10 children suffer from chronic malnutrition 
in my country, which in turn leads to extreme poverty. 
They  have  the  choice  of  working  from  a  young  age 
on farms, turning to crime or migrating to the United 
States. We have therefore designed a national strategy 
to prevent chronic malnutrition as part of our food and 
nutrition security policy. 
As  for  education,  our  responsibility  is  to  ensure 
that  every  child  has  access  to  free,  high-quality 
education, with a view to benefiting children and young 
people in Guatemala through comprehensive education 
programmes. 
In  the  area  of  public  safety,  we  have  focused  our 
attention  on  lowering  rates  of  violence,  delinquency 
and  crime,  using  prevention  policies  as  part  of  a 
comprehensive  approach.  We  have  been  able 
to 
coordinate  considerable  efforts  to  deliver  greater 
security 
the 
investigation and prevention capabilities of our police 
force, which has allowed us, in various ways, to lower 
rates of violent death. 
the  population  and  strengthen 
to 
Guatemala reaffirms its commitment to the United 
Nations  and  reiterates  its  multilateral  and  peaceful 
mission,  convinced  that  global  challenges,  such  as 
security,  development,  respect  for  human  rights  and 
climate change, should be addressed through dialogue 
and collective negotiation, as part of the global system. 
For Guatemala, human rights are intrinsically linked to 
respect, democracy and the rule of law. For that reason, 
strengthening  the  international  human  rights  system 
is  one  of  my  Government’s  main  priorities,  and  we 
are  committed  to  promoting  the  highest  international 
standards  in  that  area  through  active  participation 
in  various  forums.  I  would  therefore  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to ask the international community for its 
support of my country’s declaration of candidacy to the 
Human Rights Council for the period 2017-2019. 
My  country  recognizes  that  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development encompasses a transformative 
vision and provides a road map with Goals, targets and 
indicators to tackle the challenges that face humankind. 
Guatemala endorses the 2030 Agenda; it is aligned with 
the national development plan K’atun, Our Guatemala 
2032,  which  was  developed  with  the  participation  of 
various sectors of society in a resumption of medium- 
and long-term planning. Being aware that it is impossible 
to achieve sustainable development if we do not ensure 
the preservation of our planet’s resources, my country 
did  not  hesitate  in  adopting  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change, which I had the honour of signing on 
22 April in this very Hall. 
I wish to express my deep respect and admiration 
for  every  single  Guatemalan  migrant  who,  through 
sacrifice  and  hard  work,  helps  to  support  his  or  her 
family  and  Guatemala’s  development,  as  well  as 
contributing  to  the  development  of  the  country  in 
which he or she resides. These people really are unsung 
heroes, exemplary citizens. They live in every corner 
of  the  world,  and  they  have  rights  and  are  entitled  to 
be  treated  with  greater  dignity.  It  is  for  that  reason 
that  during  my  country’s  statement  at  the  high-level 
meeting  to  address  large  movements  of  refugees  and 
migrants (see A/71/PV.6 B), we were emphatic in our 
commitment to the promotion, protection and defence 
of  the  human  rights  of  migrants  and  their  families, 
regardless  of  their  migration  status,  in  origin,  transit 
and destination countries.
Guatemala  contends 
that  multilateralism  and 
the  promotion  of  international  law  are  indispensable 
in  solving  the  problems  facing  our  community  of 
nations,  and  we  hope  that  peaceful  solutions  can  be 
found  to  overcome  the  differences  between  States. 
Guatemala  is  promoting  cooperation  schemes  and 
good-neighbourliness  in  its  surrounding  area.  I  wish 
to express my country’s deep commitment to resolving 
once and for all, at the International Court of Justice, its 
land, island and maritime dispute with Belize, a country 
with which we aspire to have a privileged relationship 
and to maintain permanent dialogue, as a way to solve 
our common problems. 
In  recent  months,  however,  the  Government  of 
Belize  has  failed  to  reciprocate  that  attitude.  Since 
1999, the situation has claimed 10 Guatemalan civilian 
victims in the adjacency zone administered by Belize. 
On  20  April,  a  14-year-old  boy  was  the  victim  of  a 
fatal attack by armed groups under the command of an 
army patrol from Belize. According to Belize’s forensic 
report, the child died from multiple wounds caused by 
bullets from a high-powered rifle. Guatemalan forensic 
services  confirmed  that  the  child  had  nine  bullet 
wounds — six in his back, two in the back of his neck 
and one on the front of his torso. 
20/28 
16-29559
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.15
Such  grave  acts  directly  harm  our  two  countries’ 
bilateral  relationship  and  hinder  confidence-building. 
I wish to reaffirm the desire of the State of Guatemala 
to find a permanent solution to the dispute with Belize 
within the framework of international law, while also 
reminding the international community of the risks to 
international security that the continuous deadlock and 
disputed geographical demarcation pose. It is no secret 
that  powerful  transnational  criminal  organizations 
thrive on the differences between States and are capable 
of occupying pockets of undefined territories that lack 
effective control. 
The President returned to the Chair.
Today’s general debate comes at a time when we are 
facing serious threats to peace and stability in various 
countries — Iraq, Mali, the Syrian Arab Republic, the 
Central African Republic, the Sudan and South Sudan, 
to name but a few. The nuclear tests recently carried out 
on the Korean peninsula constitute a flagrant violation 
of  Security  Council  resolutions  and 
the  nuclear 
non-proliferation  regime,  and  we  reiterate  our  strong 
condemnation of them. 
I wish to stress that, for my country, peacekeeping 
operations  and  international  security  represent  the 
ideal of serving under the flag of the United Nations, in 
an effort to support fellow countries. We are currently 
contributing  to  seven  operations:  in  Haiti,  Lebanon, 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  the  Sudan,  South  Sudan,  the  Central 
African Republic and the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo. 
We are also honoured to be part of the special political 
mission in Colombia, one of Guatemala’s neighbouring 
countries, to support the agreement to end the current 
conflict  through  a  bilateral  and  permanent  ceasefire, 
the surrender of weapons, security guarantees and an 
endorsement  mechanism  for  the  peace  agreements. 
I  congratulate  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
Colombia on that important achievement. We recognize 
the part played by the leadership of President Santos in 
the process and the contribution of the Government of 
Cuba to it. I also commend the intention to soon hold a 
plebiscite for the people of Colombia to ratify the peace 
agreements.
I wish to conclude both by congratulating all those 
who contribute to peace and by stating that the General 
Assembly  allows  us,  as  leaders,  to  reflect  and  ask 
ourselves if we are fulfilling the founding promise of 
the Organization to save succeeding generations from 
the scourge of war, to promote social progress, to live 
in peace as good neighbours and, finally, to unite our 
strength to universally transform our world and succeed 
in not leaving anyone behind. 
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guatemala for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Jimmy  Morales,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Faiez Mustafa Serraj, President 
of the Presidency Council of the Government of 
National Accord of Libya
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Presidency Council of 
the Government of National Accord of Libya.
Mr.  Faiez  Mustafa  Serraj,  President  of 
the 
Presidency Council of the Government of National 
Accord  of  Libya,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His Excellency Mr. Faiez Mustafa Serraj, President of 
the Presidency Council of the Government of National 
Accord  of  Libya,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President Serraj (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
I am happy to congratulate you, Sir, on your election to 
the presidency of the General Assembly at its seventy-
first  session.  Allow  me  to  wish  you  great  success  in 
your  new  function  and  to  thank  your  predecessor, 
Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, for his leadership as President 
of the General Assembly during the seventieth session. 
I  further  wish  to  commend  the  stewardship  of  the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban-Ki-moon,  and  his  part  in 
implementing the goals of the Organization.
The  situation  in  my  country  continues  to  cause 
concern  throughout  the  world.  The  people  of  Libya 
appreciate the efforts of all those who have helped and 
continue  to  help  them  get  through  this  very  difficult 
period.  After  the  signing  of  the  Libyan  Political 
Agreement  following  the  Libyan  Political  Dialogue, 
which  lasted  nearly  two  years,  a  solution  to  political 
disagreements  was  reached.  It  established  State 
institutions and the next step to be taken. The agreement 
is  based  on  the  separation  of  powers.  Henceforth,  we 
16-29559
21/28
A/71/PV.15 
22/09/2016
will spare no effort to implement all the initiatives and 
peaceful solutions in order to resolve the disagreements. 
Every attempt to bring opinions of the various parties 
closer  together  —  including  the  ministerial  meeting 
comprising  20  States  held  this  morning  —  illustrates 
once again that a political agreement is the only viable 
solution. We call for follow-up efforts to continue the 
democratic process and establish stable institutions, so 
that we can realize the aspirations of the Libyan people, 
who have been waiting for this outcome since February 
2011.
All  of  us  would  like  to  thank  neighbouring 
countries,  friendly  countries,  the  League  of  Arab 
States, the African Union, the European Union and the 
United  Nations  for  their  support  during  this  difficult 
time.  Despite  the  fragile  situation  of  my  country,  the 
Presidency  Council  of  the  Government  of  National 
Accord  of  Libya  is  sparing  no  effort  to  mitigate  the 
suffering  of  the  Libyan  people  and  to  create  security 
and stability and ensure national reconciliation. 
In  order  to  establish  the  rule  of  law  and  its 
institutions,  it  is  necessary  to  find  the  necessary 
financial  resources  in  order  to  reach  our  goals.  We 
therefore  urge  all  States  in  possession  of  Libyan 
financial assets to facilitate the release of such assets 
in  order  to  enable  the  Government  to  implement  its 
policies.
We reiterate our commitment to strengthening the 
bonds of friendship and the cooperative relations with 
our  brotherly  and  friendly  States  in  order  to  achieve 
our common objectives. In that regard, we call for the 
return  of  diplomatic  missions  to  Tripoli  so  that  they 
can  resume  their  work,  and  so  that  we  can  discuss 
and  coordinate  with  them  directly  in  implementing 
joint  programmes  and  overcoming  any  corresponding 
difficulties.  We  understand  the  concern  over  security 
issues,  but  we  are  deeply  committed  to  establishing 
and  implementing  programmes  that  will  ensure  our 
country’s security.
country 
unconditional 
condemnation  and  rejection  of  terrorism,  whatever 
the  manifestations,  origin  and  motives.  Terrorism 
is  a  global  phenomenon  that  cannot  be  linked  to  any 
particular  religion  or  belief.  As  we  know,  terrorist 
groups such as Da’esh are coming to our country from 
abroad.  They  are  not  only  threatening  the  peace  and 
stability of my country but are bent on exploiting our 
national resources, so that they can use them to reach 
My 
reaffirms 
its 
other States in the region, Africa, Europe and the rest 
of the world to satisfy their lust for blood — which has 
no connection to Islam.
All States must therefore consolidate their efforts 
to eradicate terrorism, which targets innocent victims 
and creates economic and social instability, preventing 
their  peoples  from  achieving  their  economic  and 
development objectives. Despite our limited resources, 
we are waging a relentless war to eradicate terrorism. 
All  States  have  witnessed  the  courage  of  our  armed 
forces,  the  Libyan  National  Army,  and  our  loyal  and 
brave young men. As demonstrated by the war in which 
our finest died as martyrs defending our country, our 
unity enables us to confront any enemy, no matter how 
perfidious.  In  that  regard,  we  hope  that  all  States,  in 
particular the members of the Security Council, will lift 
the arms embargo. And we call for the convening of an 
international high-level conference under the auspices 
of the United Nations, so that we can consolidate our 
efforts to fight terrorism.
With respect to human rights, since 2011 legislators 
in  Libya  have  adopted  a  series  of  laws  and  decisions 
aimed at strengthening human rights. The Government 
of National Accord has reaffirmed its commitment to 
bolstering  and  protecting  human  rights.  Nevertheless, 
difficulties arising out of the current transition period 
have  caused  a  number  of  security  challenges,  which 
have led to several human rights violations. We hope that 
our efforts to enforce our laws will be supported by the 
international community. For our part, we will continue 
to  fight  impunity  and  put  an  end  to  all  practices  that 
lead to human rights violations. We reaffirm our need 
to  receive  technical  assistance  through  mechanisms 
established by the Human Rights Council.
The flow of migrants is one of the main challenges 
facing us, with many of them crossing the Mediterranean 
in the hope of reaching Europe. The situation has had 
serious economic, social and security repercussions in 
Libya. It pains us to note that civil wars are the cause 
of this situation, which has led to the deaths of many 
innocent  people  on  our  beaches.  Worse  still,  terrorist 
organizations  have  benefited  from 
this  situation 
in  order  to  enable  their  members  to  head  towards 
numerous countries across the globe. We welcome the 
regional and international efforts made in compliance 
with the principles of respect for national sovereignty 
and non-interference in the internal affairs of countries 
and  designed  to  put  an  end  to  this  phenomenon.  We 
reaffirm that we favour a security-based approach. The 
22/28 
16-29559
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.15
appropriate solution will address the underlying causes 
of this dangerous migration. 
We  must  all  assist  the  countries  of  origin  by 
implementing  worthwhile  development  projects  with 
a  view  to  ending  poverty  and  unemployment.  We 
believe  that  in  order  to  achieve  this,  the  countries 
of  origin,  transit  and  destination  must  develop  and 
implement strategies for cooperation, with the support 
of the African Union and the European Union and the 
encouragement of the international community.
Motivated  by 
its  commitment 
is  participating 
Last  year  we  adopted 
to  peace  and 
international  security,  Libya 
in 
international  disarmament  efforts,  especially  with 
respect  to  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  My  country, 
after  joining  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of 
Chemical  Weapons,  announced  that  it  had  reserves 
of  chemical  products,  which  it  has  now  disposed  of 
with the help of inspectors from the organization. We 
therefore  welcome  Security  Council  resolution  2298 
(2016), which is designed to support Libya in ensuring 
the transfer of the remainder of its category 2 chemical 
weapons.  In  this  endeavour,  we  commend  the  help  of 
Denmark and Germany and thank those two countries.
the  17  Sustainable 
Development Goals — an ambitious agenda for making 
economic,  social  and  environmental  progress  by 
2030.  The  High-level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable 
Development  and  its  outcome  have  strengthened  our 
desire  to  achieve  these  Goals,  upon  which  we  have 
all agreed. However, words must become actions, and 
that  must  be  done  in  an  organized  and  effective  way 
so  that  we  can  address  the  challenges  of  both  today 
and tomorrow. This means that we are all responsible 
for  supporting  poorer  countries  in  their  policies  and 
development,  particularly  those  that  depend  on  a 
single  product  for  their  financial  resources.  We  must 
support  them  in  diversifying  their  sources  of  income 
and in ensuring that their economic institutions reach 
the necessary level of competence. We must create an 
environment that is conducive to business. 
There  is  a  collective  conviction  of  the  need 
to  reform  the  United  Nations,  especially  the  Security 
Council. The Council in its current form no longer reflects 
the  contemporary  realities  of  the  twenty-first  century,  nor 
is  it  capable  of  addressing  all  the  challenges  that  threaten 
international  peace  and  security.  We  therefore  call  for 
a  permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council,  with  all  the 
corresponding privileges, to be accorded to the Arab States. 
In addition, we support the final communiqué of the 2010 
Arab Summit in Sirte, and reaffirm the C African position, 
set  out  in  the  Sirte  Declaration  of  2005,  calling  for  two 
permanent seats with all corresponding privileges, including 
the  veto.  Satisfying  this  African  demand  would  rectify  a 
history of injustice and exclusion.
Peace  in  the  Middle  East  will  not  be  possible  so 
long  as  Israel  continues  to  occupy  Palestinian  territories, 
establishing settlements and Judaizing the city of Jerusalem. 
Israel continues to flout the resolutions of the international 
community  on  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people, 
particularly their right to create an independent State with 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  We  once  again  demand  that  the 
blockade against the Palestinians be lifted. We call for the 
protection of the Palestinian people and for the occupying 
authorities to be obligated to cease all violent actions and 
all their settlement activities throughout Palestinian territory, 
including Jerusalem. 
The  people  of  Yemen  and  Syria  —  our  brothers  and 
sisters — have been living for five years now in catastrophic 
humanitarian conditions owing to the bloody conflicts and 
their tragic repercussions, which have led to the displacement 
of  innocent  citizens.  We  welcome  all  efforts  to  achieve  a 
peaceful solution that will avoid the division and dismantling 
of these countries and instead fulfil the aspirations of these 
peoples.
In the light of the responsibility that I have agreed to 
assume,  I  wish  to  conclude  by  taking  this  opportunity  to 
affirm  my  resolve  to  launch  a  comprehensive  project  for 
national  reconciliation  for  all  Libyans  —  those  who  live 
abroad and those who remain in Libya, both in the cities and 
the countryside, whatever their origin and background, and 
whatever  their  political  beliefs  and  intellectual  affiliation. 
I  call  for  reconciliation  with  those  who  believe  in  the 
establishment of a strong State and a unified army that will 
defend us from all aggressors. I call for a State that enjoys 
true sovereignty, where no citizen will be harmed in any way. 
I call for transitional justice in order to maintain our rights. 
Libyans,  there  has  been  enough  destruction  and  enough 
bloodshed; let us unite for justice, prosperity and security; 
let us move towards reconciliation. 
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Presidency Council 
of the Government of National Accord of Libya for the 
statement he has just made.
the 
Mr.  Faiez  Mustafa  Serraj,  President  of 
Presidency Council of the Government of National 
16-29559
23/28
A/71/PV.15 
22/09/2016
Accord  of  Libya,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Aleksandar Vučić, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Serbia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia.
Mr.  Aleksandar  Vučić,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Serbia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Aleksandar Vučić, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Serbia, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly. 
Mr. Vučić (Serbia): It is a great honour for me to 
address  the  General  Assembly  today  on  behalf  of  the 
Republic of Serbia. 
First of all, I must say that I am profoundly grateful 
to  all  those  present  in  the  Hall  because  I  know  that 
there  can  be  little  excitement  regarding  my  speech. 
Nevertheless,  from  time  to  time  it  is  necessary  for 
us  to  listen  to  one  another.  The  general  debate  is  an 
opportunity  to  highlight  the  numerous  achievements 
of the world Organization in previous periods. At the 
same  time,  it  is  an  opportunity  to  jointly  reaffirm 
our  commitment  to  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  our 
readiness to strengthen our collective resolve to engage 
actively and to do more to promote peace and security, 
sustainable  development  and  human  rights  in  the 
interest of humankind as a whole. 
The  Republic  of  Serbia  strongly  supports  the 
proposed theme for this year’s general debate.
My  country 
firmly  believes 
that  productive 
is  not  only  necessary  but  also 
multilateralism 
achievable if we all demonstrate readiness, in a spirit 
of  cooperation,  compromise  and  flexibility,  for  joint 
engagement  in  the  task  of  realizating  the  strategic 
vision of a better world for all of us. Political will is the 
first step in that direction, but it must be followed by 
both measures and practical activities. It is our deep-
seated belief that this is the only way forward in a world 
of  growing  interdependence  and  complexity,  where 
common challenges require common solutions. 
We believe that peace is the foundation for all our 
common endeavours in fighting poverty, unemployment, 
organized  crime,  corruption,  violence  and  all  kinds 
of  extremism;  in  fighting  for  a  better  world  based  on 
universal respect for justice, the rule of law, and human 
rights and freedoms that apply to everyone, regardless 
of differences in race, gender, language or religion.
It seems to me that my words are familiar and that 
many other people have mentioned the same things. I 
therefore have an obligation to be as brief as possible, 
so  I  will  not  read  my  official  speech  but  instead  will 
hand out copies of it. I will speak to the Assembly in a 
different way. I will not use the teleprompters, as many 
speakers smarter than I have done in this debate.
Coming  from  a  relatively  small  country 
in 
the  Western  Balkans,  in  the  heart  of  Europe,  and 
representing  today  a  proud,  dignified  and  freedom-
loving people, I am very proud to have an opportunity 
to be speak here. I am very proud to see people in this 
great Hall who are ready to listen to those of us who 
come from small nations. There is no reason for us to 
address our own public to gain political points; we have 
enough votes to legitimately represent our people.
We  have  heard  many  impressive  words  from  the 
representatives of the big Powers, but we have not heard 
in this general debate any suggestions for real solutions 
to some very important issues. 
First  of  all,  we  have  heard  almost  nothing  about 
a comprehensive solution to the migrant crisis, which 
affects  almost  the  entire  world.  Coming  from  a  very 
small country in the Balkans, we have been waiting for 
a proposal by the big Powers. We will always agree with 
them  and  be  ready  to  do  our  job  together  with  them. 
Even though my country is not a State member of the 
European Union, we have been ready to participate in 
its quota system. However, nobody within the European 
Union accepted that system. But now we do not know 
what  our  policy  on  that  issue  should  be,  because 
countries differ as to their policies. We should share the 
same values, but instead completely different solutions 
leave us with no idea how to negotiate all the bumps in 
the road ahead.
I must also add that the migrant crisis is far from 
over. It has just begun. Today, Serbia is currently facing 
a greater number of difficult issues than it faced a year 
ago. Today, we have more than 7,000 migrants within 
our  borders.  Bulgaria  has  the  same  number.  Those 
people cannot go anywhere else because all the other 
24/28 
16-29559
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.15
countries  have  already  closed  their  borders.  I  have  a 
question  for  all  delegations.  Are  there  any  common 
solutions for us? Is there something that we can all do 
together?  There  are  some  steps  that  we  can  take  for 
ourselves and by ourselves. We will do that, but we will 
continue  to  await  a  common,  comprehensive  solution 
from both the European Union and the United Nations, 
because the current situation is not coming to an end. It 
will not end in a few days, a few weeks or a few months.
We  call  the  Assembly’s  attention  to  a  few  other 
issues.  Delegations  know  that  my  country  has  faced 
many  difficulties  over  the  past  25  years.  During  the 
past 100 years, I think that we did not miss a single war, 
from  the  first  Balkan  War  to  the  most  recent  wars  in 
the 1990s. I hope that in the future we will have enough 
strength to overcome all disputes and to do more for our 
people and their economic development. 
We 
recently  succeeded 
in  delivering  better 
economic results. For the first time in our contemporary 
history,  we  have  a  surplus  in  our  budget.  After  many 
years of crises, we will have a growth rate that exceeds 
3 per cent this year, and we expect even better growth 
rates in the years to come. That does not compare with 
the growth rates of some countries in Asia and Africa, 
like  the  country  of  my  friend  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Mauritius, but it is still better than the average growth 
rate in Europe, and we are very proud to be able to say 
that today. 
I have been highlighting various issues because we 
are  once  again  facing  instability  in  the  region,  which 
could jeopardize almost every gain we have made. This 
is  something  I  have  been  signalling  for  the  past  two 
years. To tell the truth, we have received a great deal of 
support from the United Nations and all our friends — in 
the  West  and  the  East  —  but  still  the  situation  in  the 
Western Balkan region has not improved. That is why 
we worry a lot, and why I think that we need to invest 
even more effort, more time and more of our political 
will to overcome all the difficulties, disputes, quarrels 
and enmities inherited from the past. 
We have faced some terrible insults from some of 
our neighbours. I will not reply to them in kind today. 
They have said that my people are a handful of poor, 
miserable  wretches.  These  are  things  nobody  should 
say about any nation anywhere. We have decided not to 
respond to them, and we will stay on that track. We will 
not be so gross about anybody, even though we may be 
insulted and offended again. 
Why  am  I  saying  that?  I  am  saying  that  because 
I  think  that  the  Western  Balkan  region  needs  peace, 
stability,  better  understanding  and  real  reconciliation 
in the future. Have we succeeded in that over the past 
20 to 25 years? I dare say we have not, or not entirely. 
Hatred is even more bitter among the people of some 
countries in the Western Balkans, but at least we have 
succeeded  in  preserving  the  peace  and  maintaining 
calm and tranquillity. We will do our best to keep up the 
pace, to stress economic development and to preserve 
and develop our political relationship in a different way 
than we used to. 
Once again, we are very thankful to those nations 
that were not on our side, but on the side of international 
public  law.  They  did  not  support  the  unilaterally 
proclaimed  independence  of  our  southern  province, 
Kosovo  and  Metohija.  We  are  profoundly  grateful  to 
the  Member  States  that  abided  by  the  United  Nations 
Charter.
We  are  persistent  in  continuing  our  dialogue  and 
conversations with Kosovo Albanians, because we need 
to  live  together.  We  need  to  create  a  common  future. 
These talks are facilitated by the European Union, and 
we  are  deeply  committed  and  dedicated  to  carrying 
on  with  them.  We  will  remain  ready  to  inform  the 
Assembly about the results of these conversations, and 
we hope that the situation in Kosovo and Metohija will 
not be a source of instability in future. That is at least 
one good conclusion from my speech of today.
There  are  several  other  issues  at  stake.  We  face 
various  dangers,  and  many  factors  could  jeopardize 
our future sustainable development. There is a greater 
presence  of  terrorist  cells  in  various  countries  in  the 
Western  Balkans,  and,  together  with  the  rest  of  the 
world,  we  will  do  our  best  to  fight  that  terrible  evil. 
That is why we joined the coalition to fight the Islamic 
State in Iraq and the Sham. I am proud to say that we 
will always be with the better side of the world, the side 
of the world that will preserve peace, stability and the 
values for which the modern world is fighting.
Serbia will do its best not only to protect its own 
national  and  State  interests  but  also  to  listen  to  the 
other small and relatively small countries, because we 
need to unite; otherwise I am very much afraid that our 
voice will not be heard in future.
I think that the General Assembly can be satisfied 
that, at least in the past three or four years, we have all 
been  hearing  that  Serbia  is  a  pillar  of  stability  in  the 
16-29559
25/28
A/71/PV.15 
22/09/2016
Western Balkans. We are proud of that fact. That will 
remain the case for the next 5, 10, 20 years, and I hope 
that we will be able to create a better world and better 
cooperation, particularly among us smaller countries in 
the world. We will do our best, at least from our side, to 
listen and to see what we can achieve all together.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  Serbia  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Aleksandar  Vučić,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Serbia, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Ramtane  Lamamra,  Deputy  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International 
Cooperation of Algeria.
Mr.  Lamamra  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  am 
honoured  and  privileged  to  address  the  Assembly  on 
behalf of Algeria and to congratulate you, Sir, on your 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its  seventy-first  session.  We  share  the  priorities  that 
you  have  identified  for  this  session,  and  we  reaffirm 
our commitment to working with you to achieve them. 
I  wish  also  to  express  Algeria’s  gratitude  to  your 
predecessor for the initiatives he took when he presided 
over the Assembly.
This  session  began  in  the  context  of  a  turbulent 
global situation that is deeply concerning, in addition 
to  the  long-standing  conflicts  to  which  no  solution  is 
in  sight.  There  are  new  threats  to  international  peace 
and security that require urgent and serious action. The 
international  community  is  witnessing  unprecedented 
mass movements of people not seen since the Second 
World War. A high-level meeting was dedicated to this 
issue three days ago in order to identify the developments 
that  have  taken  place  in  the  context  of  this  serious 
phenomenon.  The  images  of  the  thousands  of  people 
who have had no choice other than to take a perilous 
journey  cannot  be  seen  only  from  the  perspective  of 
migration.  Conventional  solutions,  such  as  exclusion, 
cannot be used here.
The situation is in fact a test for all of us. In that 
respect,  the  President  of  the  Republic,  Mr.  Abdelaziz 
Bouteflika,  during  his  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  twenty-ninth  session,  said,  from  this 
very rostrum:
“The  concept  of  universality  is  also  a  moral 
necessity. It means that in the face of the unity of 
humankind, racial barriers are crumbling away in 
the same way as differences in economic and social 
status are gradually fading.” (A/PV.2233, para. 28)
We  can  conclude  from  this  idea,  expressed  by 
President Bouteflika more than 40 years ago, that the 
ability  of  the  international  community  to  overcome 
such  phenomena  will  require  great  solidarity.  Algeria 
contributes to such actions as well as to the quest for 
lasting  solutions  that  reflect  our  commitment  to  the 
values  and  principles  upon  which  the  United  Nations 
was founded.
In  order  to  address  such  challenges,  and  learning 
from the painful lessons of the Second World War, the 
founders  of  the  United  Nations  devised  a  collective 
security  order  based  on  equality,  which  must  be 
enhanced  on  an  ongoing  basis  so  as  to  reject  narrow 
interests and intolerance in all their forms. If there is 
one main task that we have to champion in the United 
Nations,  it  is  for  this  Organization  to  be  the  main 
catalyst of the hopes of all peoples. Our Organization, 
given  its  moral  stature,  must  earn  the  respect  of  all 
Member States. It should be a source of inspiration to 
all  of  humankind  in  situations  of  crisis  with  respect 
to  the  right  to  self-determination,  respect  for  human 
rights, the peaceful resolution of conflicts and all of the 
other principles enshrined in the Charter.
It is clearer than ever before that the United Nations 
is  facing  unprecedented  challenges.  Now  is  the  time 
to stress that the United Nations is a unique body and 
is  capableof  mobilizing  the  required  consensus  and 
overcoming the challenges at hand. It is unfair to blame 
our Organization for all the violations that are taking 
place  in  the  world.  Such  violations  may  be  attributed 
only to Member States, because our Organization is a 
reflection of their political will.
We  cannot  indefinitely  postpone  the  reform  and 
modernization  of  United  Nations  mechanisms,  for 
which  Algeria  has  called  repeatedly.  In  this  respect, 
I  must  express  our  satisfaction  with  the  outcome  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  Summit  recently  held 
in  Venezuela.  The  Movement  has  stressed  the  urgent 
need for such reform. Reform of the United Nations has 
taken on special importance. 
We  are  required  to  provide  answers  to  a  simple 
question.  Are  the  mechanisms  that  were  put  in  place 
after the Second World War still valid, given that most 
of the world’s people were not independent at the time? 
International  balances  of  power  and  policies  were 
26/28 
16-29559
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.15
different then. The answer is that we need to redesign 
the  entire  system  of  global  governance  with  respect 
to  political,  economic,  security  and  environmental 
matters.  This  is  not  impossible.  The  wise  consensus 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  is 
evidence of the fact that reform can be achieved through 
negotiation. Such fruitful and laudable negotiation can 
guarantee success. 
The  challenges 
to  development  are  growing, 
particularly in Africa and the Middle East. There is no 
single  person  who  is  immune  to  the  current  security 
threats. That is evidenced by the threats of international 
terrorism  that  occur  every  day.  Redoubling  efforts 
to  bring  about  peace  in  Syria,  Iraq,  Libya,  Yemen, 
Somalia,  the  Sudan,  South  Sudan  and  the  Central 
African Republic and to peacefully settle the situation 
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Burundi 
is a moral and political obligation for the international 
community. 
Regarding  the  just  cause  of  Palestine  and  its 
occupied  territories,  the  failure  of  the  international 
community to find a viable solution that would include 
the full recognition of the rights of Palestinian people 
and the territories occupied since 1967, and that would 
establish  Palestine  as  an  independent  State  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital, serves to underline the failure 
of the contemporary international order. 
region,  whose 
Mr. El Haycen (Mauritania), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
In  our  Maghreb 
inhabitants 
have  much  in  common,  the  mission  to  bring  peace 
to  Western  Sahara,  led  by  the  United  Nations,  has 
encountered a couple of hurdles this year. The United 
Nations,  in  particular  the  Security  Council,  has  lost 
some of its authority. Such developments threaten the 
integrity of the approach taken by the United Nations. 
This  disturbing  situation  underlines  once  again  the 
urgent  need  to  settle  such  disputes  in  accordance 
with  international  legitimacy  and  to  implement  the 
inalienable right of the Sahrawi to self-determination. 
Hence,  in  this  particular  situation,  we  would  like  to 
stress again that the United Nations is still committed 
to ending the occupation in Western Sahara.
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda 
represents progress and gives us hope of attaining our 
noble goal of ensuring that no one is left behind. But 
international  economic  expectations  and  the  outlooks 
of  international  organizations  dampen  our  optimism, 
because  they  note  the  magnitude  of  the  challenges 
faced. Such challenges threaten the success of efforts 
to  achieve 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
particularly the reduction of poverty. Additionally, they 
denote  declining  investments  in  developing  countries 
and a decline in the amount of the official development 
assistance (ODA) that we will receive. ODA has already 
been in decline for the past couple of years. The trend 
towards  reduced  ODA  from  rich  countries  will  prove 
even  more  detrimental  as  the  financial  needs  of 
developing countries grow. 
Developed countries must change their consumption 
patterns in a way that benefits production in developing 
countries. The commitments we have made to reducing 
inequality  require  a  genuine  transformation  of  the 
economic  models  of  rich  countries  that  will  take  into 
consideration  the  interests  of  all.  The  same  principle 
has to apply to the transfer of technology to developing 
countries, since technology is an urgent prerequisite if 
they truly are to enhance national capabilities. In this 
respect, the highest priority has to be given to Africa 
to  enable  it  to  build  infrastructure  and  fulfil  basic 
needs like water and electricity supply. In addition, it is 
necessary to enable African countries to participate in 
income-generating activities at the global level and to 
be economically competitive.
Algeria has undertaken its development efforts in 
a  spirit  of  self-reliance.  We  have  drawn  on  our  own 
resources by utilizing innovative financial tools. That 
which Algeria seeks for the United Nations in terms of 
reform, openness and transparency has been applied in 
Algeria.  Under  the  strong  leadership  of  its  President, 
Algeria  adopted  a  constitutional  amendment  whose 
democratic  provisions  are  designed  to  enhance  the 
rule  of  law,  increase  individual  freedoms,  bolster  the 
institutional role of opposition parties, liberate national 
economic  capacities,  empower  women  and  establish 
Amazigh languages as official national languages. That 
is  an  important  step  on  our  historic  path.  It  will  help 
to build a peaceful, open and strong community. Since 
Algeria  is  stable  and  at  peace  with  itself,  it  can  also 
effectively contribute to bringing about peace, security, 
stability and prosperity in neighbouring countries and 
beyond. 
Algeria,  which  is  making  a  renewed  commitment 
to  the  United  Nations  and  to  what  it  represents, 
commends the commitment made by Mr. Ban Ki-moon, 
whose tenure as Secretary-General is coming to an end. 
16-29559
27/28
A/71/PV.15 
22/09/2016
Mr. Ban undertook his responsibilities wholeheartedly 
and achieved significant results. He demonstrated that 
the task of Secretary-General is not an impossible one 
for a person like himself, who made every effort, using 
his heart and mind, to achieve the noble goals that he 
committed  to  when  he  was  elected.  We  would  like  to 
thank  him  and  to  wish  him  every  success  in  his  new 
endeavours.
The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m.
28/28 
16-29559
