United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
19th plenary meeting
Friday, 23 September 2016, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.19
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Bouah-Kamon 
(Côte d’Ivoire), Vice-President, took the Chair.
self-demanding, and to reflect on the need to renew and 
improve the system of the United Nations.
The meeting was called to order at 6 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Antoni Martí Petit, Head of 
Government of the Principality of Andorra
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of 
Government of the Principality of Andorra.
Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit,  Head  of  Government 
of  the  Principality  of  Andorra,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  French):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit,  Head  of  Government  of  the 
Principality of Andorra, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Martí  Petit  (Andorra)  (spoke  in  Catalan; 
English text provided by the delegation): This year, once 
again, the United Nations calls upon all the countries 
on planet Earth to participate in the General Assembly, 
which is — one could say — a kind of global Parliament. 
Once again this year, we have the chance to take stock 
of the advances and setbacks that we have experienced 
in this large joint enterprise aimed at promoting peace, 
security  and  the  respect  of  human  rights.  Once  again 
this  year,  we  are  here  to  be  critical,  demanding  and 
However,  the  fact  that  I  can  say  “once  again  this 
year” represents, in itself, a success. Beyond the good 
decisions  and  the  not-so-good  ones  made  over  the 
years,  the  mere  fact  that  almost  200  sovereign  States 
symbolically  renew  their  commitment  to  the  United 
Nations  each  year  is  a  reason  for  hope  for  those  of 
us  who,  like  the  people  of  Andorra,  firmly  believe  in 
multilateralism and the need to promote peace, security 
and justice.
its  more 
Throughout 
than  seven  decades  of 
existence,  the  United  Nations  has  not  been  a  passive 
stakeholder  or  a  static  feature.  Quite  the  contrary,  it 
has managed to extend its mission, make its objectives 
more  ambitious  and  give  them  content  with  tangible 
results.  The  United  Nations  was  created  to  promote 
peace, security and human rights. However, year after 
year, it has spread its area of action to become what we 
see today, that is, a large Assembly of all the countries 
on planet Earth, which seek to resolve what affects all 
of us domestically and among all of us.
The past 12 months have been highly constructive 
with  regard  to  advances  in  the  multilateral  area.  Just 
one  year  ago,  in  September  2015,  we  unanimously 
adopted  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  listed 
in what is known as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.  A  few  months  later,  the  international 
community — thanks to the driving force and leadership 
of  the  French  Republic  and  our  colleague  François 
Hollande — demonstrated its ability to give shape and 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29679 (E)
*1629679*
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
content to the Goals with the drafting and signing of the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
Following  in  the  wake  of  the  United  Nations, 
Andorra dedicated this year’s programme at its Summer 
University  to  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  as 
specified in the 2030 Agenda. For one week, Andorra 
la  Vella,  our  capital,  was  home  to  the  reflections 
and  debates  of  experts,  as  well  as 
institutional 
representatives,  such  as  the  Secretary-General  of  the 
Council of Europe and two Under-Secretaries-General  
of the United Nations.
The  Andorra  Summer  University  marks 
the 
beginning  of  the  academic  year  in  our  country, 
following  the  summer  break.  This  year,  the  people 
of  Andorra  started  the  academic  year  by  confirming 
and  demonstrating  our  commitment  to  the  values  of 
multilateralism  and 
international  cooperation.  We 
have  done  so  by  adding  our  own  particular  accent, 
placing emphasis on education. We therefore chose the 
Summer University as the setting for Andorra to show 
its commitment to the 2030 Agenda.
All  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  share  the 
same  priority.  However,  Goal  4,  on  quality  education 
is doubly important. On the one hand, it is an objective 
in and of itself that has a direct link to the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and to the Convention on 
the Rights of the Child. But it is also a means to achieve 
the rest of the Goals. At the time of the adoption of the 
2030 Agenda, the General Assembly warned about the 
need to detail the Goals in their specific implementation 
and  seek  the  involvement  of  all  stakeholders  —  not 
just public institutions — in that ambitious enterprise. 
Therefore, global involvement, including on the part of 
individuals,  local  institutions  and  large  supranational 
organizations, requires a key tool, namely, education.
The great edifice of the United Nations principles 
and values is built upon the idea that what affects all 
of  us  needs  to  be  solved  by  all  of  us  and  that  global 
matters  require  coordinated  global  actions.  It  is  true 
that a global world needs global institutions, as well as 
global regulations and global solutions. But the entire 
architecture will be as fragile as a house of cards if we 
do not educate new generations to be global citizens. A 
global world needs global citizens.
In striving to achieve the Sustainable Development 
Goals,  Andorra  is  placing  its  emphasis  on  education 
and extending quality education to everyone, not only 
as a goal in and of itself but also to promote education 
towards  global  citizenship.  Such  citizenship  is  aware 
of  the  challenges  and  the  opportunities  in  our  world, 
sensitive  to  the  protection  of  human  rights,  and  open 
and prepared for the dynamics of our times.
During  the  past  several  years,  the  Government 
that I head has made education the centre of Andorra’s 
foreign policy in the multilateral arena. We did so during 
the Andorran presidency of the Council of Europe for 
2012-2013. We did so by joining the Global Education 
First  Initiative,  promoted  by  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon.  We  have  done  so  in  the  contexts  of  the 
Ibero-American  Community  and  the  International 
Organization of la Francophonie. We will also do so by 
making education one of our priorities as members of 
the Economic and Social Council. We will continue to 
do so in all multilateral forums dealing with education. 
However, in keeping with Goal 17 of the 2030 Agenda, 
we are aware that we need to seek alliances with other 
countries,  joint  actions  and  partnerships  between  the 
public and the private sectors.
Allow  me  to  offer  a  recent  example  of  Andorran 
action  in  the  multilateral  arena.  Two  weeks  ago,  the 
twenty-fifth  Conference  of  Ministers  of  Education 
of  Ibero-American  countries  was  held  in  Andorra. 
The meeting gave rise to a commitment by the Ibero-
American Governments to promote the mobility of all 
our students. An agreement among the Governments, the 
Ibero-American  Secretary-General,  the  Organization 
of  Ibero-American  States  for  Education,  Science  and 
Culture and the Ibero-American University Board will 
promote  the  mobility  of  university  students  within 
the  Ibero-American  area,  which  currently  has  22  full 
member  States.  The  aim  of  the  signatories  is  to  offer 
mobility  to  200,000  university  students  between  now 
and 2020.
As always when talking about education, the goal 
is  twofold.  On  the  one  hand,  the  goal  is  to  promote 
an  exchange  of  experiences,  which  contributes  to 
improving the quality of our education systems. On the 
other hand — and this is probably the most important 
part — the goal is to make our young people aware of 
the fact that their reality and their future do not end at 
the borders of the country in which they were born, but 
rather that they are citizens of a global society. To some 
degree,  we  are  following  in  the  wake  of  the  Erasmus 
programme  for  the  mobility  of  university  students  in 
Europe.  What  has  done  more  to  promote  European 
construction — all the regulations and directives that 
make up the European Union acquis, or all the young 
2/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
people who, for decades, have been completing part of 
their  university  courses  in  other  European  countries 
and who feel European?
It  is  not  the  young  people  who  wish  to  isolate 
themselves. And those of us who are here today — most 
of whom are from a generation that has left its youth 
behind  —  must  be  increasingly  more  generous  and 
more  open-minded,  because  the  future  of  our  young 
people, the future of our countries and the future of our 
world  depends  on  it.  If  we  educate  our  young  people 
as  citizens  of  a  global  world,  we  will  be  laying  the 
foundation for a much more open, cooperative and fair 
world.
In  line  with  the  theme  of  this  session,  “The 
Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a  universal  push 
to  transform  our  world”,  Andorra’s  commitment  to 
quality  education  is  not  limited  to  diverse  actions  in 
multilateral  forums,  but  also  has  a  local  dimension. 
The  local  dimension  begins  as  a  result  of  the  good 
fortune — and it is necessary to say that because it is 
good  fortune  —  that  we  enjoy  in  having  three  public 
systems  that  are  free  and  available:  the  Spanish,  the 
French and the Andorran systems. That in itself makes 
up  a  pluralist  educational  community  with  a  marked 
international component.
In  that  sense,  the  people  of  Andorra  have  been 
pioneers  in  our  education  system  in  introducing 
“education  by  skills”,  which  is  a  model  that  seeks  to 
overcome  the  old  concept  of  education  as  a  simple 
accumulation  of  knowledge  to  focus  on  education 
understood as a set of abilities and skills to apply that 
knowledge.  The  reason  for  that  model  is  that  what  is 
important is not so much knowing, but thinking; we do 
not wish to create encyclopaedias, but rather citizens. 
Citizens  who  can  develop  themselves  and  grow  in  a 
world  that  is  changing  at  great  speed  and  who,  when 
faced with the expected and the unexpected, are able to 
react appropriately and who are not afraid of changes, 
dynamism and opening up.
We  in  Andorra  have  been  working  on  education 
centred on transversal skills for some years now. And 
now — precisely because of the need to educate global 
citizens  —  we  wish  to  go  one  step  further.  Andorra, 
in  coordination  with  the  Council  of  Europe,  will 
introduce  training  programmes  on  democratic  values 
and  systems,  so  as  to  measure  the  abilities  and  skills 
of  our  young  people  with  regard  to  such  democratic 
values.  Why  not  think  about  a  global  commitment  to 
educating  our  young  children  on  the  principles  and 
values of the United Nations, and more specifically, on 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  embodied  in  the 
2030 Agenda? Because in 2030, it will be them, and not 
us, who will be sitting here in the General Assembly.
The great dialectic of our times is not — as it used 
to be in the past — between the right and the left, or the 
policy of blocs, typical of the Cold War, which we have 
thankfully left behind. The great dialectic of our time 
is between being open and being closed, between those 
who  wish  for  an  open,  transparent,  cooperative  and 
dynamic world with strong multilateral institutions and 
those who wish for a closed, opaque and static world in 
which  each  country  looks,  only  and  exclusively,  after 
its own interests.
The road to opening up to commitment, negotiation 
and  multilateralism  is  the  path  that  we  have  been 
tracing  for  decades  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  path  to  closing  down  is  a  reflection  of 
fear and a recipe for populists and opportunists, who, 
when  faced  with  an  economic  crisis  of  global  scope, 
withdraw into protectionism; when faced with a threat 
to  security  of  global  scope,  close  their  borders;  when 
faced  with  a  challenge  such  as  climate  change,  adopt 
the selfish attitude of free riding, or expecting others to 
make the efforts. The answers of populism are that it is 
other people’s fault and that we should isolate ourselves 
from  the  others.  However,  in  a  global  society,  we  are 
the others.
I  believe  that  we  are  all  here  at  the  Assembly  to 
renew  our  confidence  in  a  multilateral  way  and  to 
continue  practicing  the  maxim  that  says  that  global 
matters  require  global  answers.  The  Principality  of 
Andorra  today  reiterates  its  belief  in  the  multilateral 
path.  Because  it  is  in  forums  such  as  the  General 
Assembly  that  a  country  like  ours,  with  a  surface 
area  of  468  square  kilometres  and  just  over  70,000 
inhabitants,  can  be  on  an  equal  footing  with  the  rest 
of  the  nations  on  the  planet.  And  I  do  not  mean  just 
rhetorical  equality  —  we  have  been  participating  and 
getting involved in coordinated, balanced actions that 
involve  the  entire  international  community,  and  we 
have been doing so for years.
We  have  demonstrated  that,  quite  adequately  in 
my  opinion,  by  participating  with  all  our  efforts  to 
build  a  more  cooperative,  transparent  and  fair  global 
economy. Over the past five years, Andorra has opened 
its  economy  to  foreign  investment,  given  economic 
16-29679
3/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
rights to all international residents, set up a comparable 
tax  system  following  international  standards,  made 
progressive  advances  in  matters  of  exchanging  fiscal 
information,  which  will  culminate  next  year  with  the 
automatic  exchange  of  information  within  the  area 
of  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development  and  the  European  Union,  and  we  have 
also  set  up  a  network  of  double  taxation  treaties  to 
internationalize the economic model.
In  parallel,  along  with  Monaco  and  San  Marino, 
we  are  negotiating  an  association  agreement  with  the 
European Union that will enable the full participation 
of Andorra in the European internal market. We have 
done  so  not  only  because  we  need  to  modernize  and 
diversify  our  economy,  but  also  because  we  are  of 
the  firm  conviction  that  a  world  with  more  intense 
economic  and  commercial  relations  is  by  nature  a 
world that cooperates more and is less selfish. It is also 
a world that is more inclined towards peace, harmony, 
negotiated solutions to conflicts and respect for human 
rights and liberties.
It  was  in  that  same  spirit  of  firm  confidence  in 
global  action  that  we  participated  last  year  in  the 
twenty-first  session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change, which led to the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change. In the coming weeks, our Parliament 
will be asked to ratify the Paris Agreement. It is with 
that  same  mindset,  in  our  view,  that  we  need  to  deal 
with the matter of the huge displacements of refugees 
and  migrants,  which  have  become  one  of  the  great 
challenges of our times. It is a challenge that needs to be 
dealt with through the regulation, both internationally 
as well as locally, of migratory flows and the right to 
asylum, through the fair distribution of the impact that 
taking  in  a  huge  contingent  of  displaced  people  may 
represent, and through care and vigilance to ensure the 
respect of rights and the dignity of displaced people.
In  that  connection,  I  am  delighted,  taking  up 
what  I  said  before  regarding  the  fundamental  role  of 
education,  that  the  high-level  meeting  on  addressing 
large movements of refugees and migrants, which took 
place here on 19 September, also emphasized the need to 
construct a positive narrative on immigration. Andorra, 
which has for decades been a land that has welcomed 
many families from all over, is a good example of that 
positive narrative, as is the case, I am sure, for many of 
the  countries  represented  here.  However,  in  order  for 
that narrative to continue to be valid, we also need to 
teach the value of respect for diversity. We must raise 
world citizens who do not fear difference or change.
While  populism  would  prefer  protectionism  and 
economic  isolation,  we  opt  for  liberalization  and 
greater  integration  of  our  national  economies.  While 
populism would prefer to deny the scientific evidence 
of climate change and turn its back on the problem, we 
opt  instead  for  commitments  and  specific  measurable 
actions. While populism would prefer to close borders, 
build  walls  and  stoke  the  fear  of  difference,  we  opt 
instead for the dignity of persons, for regulation and for 
education about diversity.
This  is  the  last  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
with  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  as  Secretary-General.  Many 
speakers  have  highlighted  his  career  and  his  wise 
decisions  over  the  last  decade.  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  is 
the Secretary-General who brought about the effective 
implementation  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals and was the driving force behind the post-2015 
development agenda. He has been a key player in the 
relaunching  of  the  multilateral  strategy  in  the  fight 
against climate change, which culminated in the Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change. As a legacy of his 10-
year mandate, he leaves us with a clearly marked path 
in  the  form  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs) contained in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon 
therefore  a 
fundamental player in any understanding or explanation 
of the United Nations, and by extension, of the entire 
international  community  during  the  first  third  of  the 
twenty-first century.
is 
For the people of Andorra, Mr. Ban Ki-moon is also 
the first Secretary-General to make an official visit to 
our  country,  as  he  did  in  April  2013.  The  Andorran 
people  have  heeded  his  teachings  well.  If  education 
is  the  guiding  thread  to  a  good  part  of  Andorra’s 
multilateral action, that is also thanks to the insistence 
of the Secretary-General on making quality universal 
education one of the main pillars of his action during 
his  10  years  at  the  helm  of  the  United  Nations.  As 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon said during his visit to Andorra three 
and a half years ago, the United Nations will always be 
able to count on our country in the collective endeavour 
to build a more peaceful, secure and, above all, more 
equitable world.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the Head of 
4/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
Government  of  the  Principality  of  Andorra  for  the 
statement he has just made.
humankind to respect the noble aspirations enshrined 
in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit,  Head  of  Government  of 
the  Principality  of  Andorra,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Charlot Salwai Tabimasmas, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu.
Mr.  Charlot  Salwai  Tabimasmas,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Republic  of  Vanuatu,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Charlot 
Salwai Tabimasmas, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Vanuatu, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Salwai (Vanuatu) (spoke in French): Vanuatu 
would like to join previous speakers in congratulating 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
first session on his new role and function. We are proud 
that,  for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  the  United 
Nations, one of our colleagues from the Pacific region 
has  taken  up  that  post.  The  President  can  be  assured 
of my delegation’s full support during his mandate and 
presidency of the General Assembly at its seventy-first 
session.  I  also  wish  to  express  our  sincere  gratitude 
to  the  outgoing  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  for  guiding  the  work  of  the 
seventieth session.
I  would  also  convey  my  heartfelt  gratitude  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  exceptional 
steering  of  the  United  Nations  for  the  last  decade. 
Throughout  those  years  he  has  shown  the  leadership 
of  a  true  world  citizen.  His  accomplishments  are 
many  and  are  reflected  in  the  adoption  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  the  Sendai 
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction and the Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  Those  key  successes 
will undoubtedly chart the future of humankind in the 
years to come. I wish Mr. Ban Ki-moon all the best in 
his future endeavours.
The  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs) 
continue  to  be  one  of  our  most  essentials  tools  for 
preventive  diplomacy,  as  they  fulfil  our  promise  to 
Today, 
the  world  continues 
to  face  complex 
challenges.  The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  that 
context,  as  expressed  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  is  more  essential  than  ever.  The  global 
economy continually faces macroeconomic challenges 
plagued by uncertainty resulting from the ramifications 
of  the  global  financial  crisis  and  the  weak  prices  for 
raw materials in recent years.
The  precarious  global  economic  outlook  bodes 
poorly  for  future  investments  and  global  economic 
growth in the short and medium term. Global terrorism 
and  instability  in  certain  regions  have  given  rise  to 
some of the worst humanitarian crises that the world has 
ever known. Never before in the history of the United 
Nations  have  we  seen  such  massive  displacements  of 
people.  Forced  migration  has  become  a  global  crisis 
and reminds us of our shared responsibility to promote 
tolerance, good governance, the rule of law, and respect 
for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Climate  change  is  real.  Its  effects  are  being  felt 
throughout the world. I congratulate the United States, 
China and the many other countries that have shown the 
world the path to take in ratifying the Paris Agreement 
on  Climate  Change.  I  have  submitted  our  ratification 
of  the  Paris  Agreement  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon, and I am proud that small island developing 
States like Vanuatu are in the vanguard of the efforts to 
combat  climate  change.  I  would  encourage  the  States 
that have not yet ratified the Paris Agreement to do so 
as soon as possible.
The ratification of the Paris Agreement will come 
to naught unless we take bold action to limit the long-
term rise in average global temperature to 1.5°C. That 
is a crucial test for our leaders in the near future, and 
we will fight for the true implementation of the Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change. We urge all leaders of 
the world to join the small island developing States in 
increasing our mitigation efforts. We call for the early 
entry  into  force  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change. The destiny of the world and the fulfilment of 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  depend  upon  our 
collective efforts.
My  delegation  believes  in  the  lofty  mandate  of 
this  international  Organization,  as  enshrined  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations. However, just like any 
organization,  it  must  be  adapted  in  correspondence 
16-29679
5/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
with  its  objectives  through  significant  reforms.  As  a 
key organ of the United Nations, the Security Council 
must  strengthen  its  coherence  in  relation  to  the  other 
bodies of the Organization.
Regarding  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
Vanuatu  is  in  favour  of  improving  transparency, 
accountability, relevance, inclusivity and effectiveness 
in order to manage the global contemporary threats and 
challenges  that  jeopardize  peace  and  security.  Such 
reforms  must  allow  the  Security  Council  to  adapt  to 
changes in the panorama of international security.
Vanuatu  also  continues  to  support  the  work  of 
revitalizing the General Assembly. Those reforms must 
be  systematic  and  respect  the  integrity  of  the  United 
Nations. Therefore, leadership on the part of the most 
powerful  States  becomes  necessary  in  undertaking 
reform  in  the  face  of  the  global  challenges,  which 
demand  collective  action.  I  would  request  that  the 
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly  choose  a 
person of impeccable ethics and integrity to be the next 
Secretary-General, who will continue to be a beacon of 
hope for all those without a voice.
In  order  to  attain  the  SDGs,  the  major  mandates 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  United  Nations  system 
must  be  coordinated  to  work  actively  with  regional 
bodies  such  as  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  Secretariat, 
the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  Fisheries  Agency,  the 
Pacific  Community  and  the  South  Pacific  Regional 
Environment  Programme.  At  the  recent  meeting  of 
the  leaders  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  Secretariat 
in  the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia  in  September, 
it  was  agreed  that  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change 
and  efforts  to  make  the  Pacific  more  resilient  to 
climate  change  and  natural  disasters  remain  essential 
components of our journey towards a sustainable future 
for our region.
Our oceans, our fisheries, gender equality, human 
rights,  health  care  and  education  are  all  important 
priorities  for  our  region.  Given  the  coherence  of  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  with  the 
global frameworks of the United Nations, an innovative 
partnership  with  regional  organizations  in  the  Pacific 
is important in order to transform the agreed intentions 
into significant actions for our people.
Vanuatu 
nuclear 
proliferation  and  remains  committed  to  the  Treaty  on 
condemns 
all 
forms 
of 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We reaffirm 
our position in favour of a nuclear-free Pacific.
Vanuatu confirms its commitment to fulfilling the 
SDGs. We have made significant progress in integrating 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  into 
our  national  plan  for  sustainable  development.  The 
protection  of  oceans  specifically  remains  one  of  our 
foremost priorities within the framework of the SDGs. 
It is one of Vanuatu’s aspirations to see ocean protection 
implemented immediately, and we welcome the fact that 
many States, both small and large, have taken measures 
to revive our oceans.
I  am  pleased  to  declare  that  Vanuatu  adopted 
its  very  first  national  ocean  policy,  which  will  help 
us  to  implement  the  objectives  laid  out  in  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  Our  current 
efforts,  demonstrated  by  the  political  priorities  of  my 
Government, are in line with the SDGs and include a 
list of initiatives likely to accelerate the socioeconomic 
development of Vanuatu.
The  mobilization  of  national  resources  to  finance 
sustainable  development  remains  one  of  the  key 
priorities of our Government. We have recently created 
a  committee  to  review  our  sources  of  revenue  and 
expand our fiscal base. That represents a major reform, 
one  of  the  most  important  since  our  independence  in 
1980.  Such  resources  must  supplement  the  financial 
assistance  provided  by  our  development  partners  and 
offer us new sources of financing in order to strengthen 
our  institutions  while  developing  our  own  human 
resources  and  infrastructures.  All  of  those  initiatives 
should  improve  our  long-term  economic  productivity 
and help us to build a resilient economy. Such efforts 
should  also  help  remove  Vanuatu  from  the  list  of 
least developed countries in 2020, as well as from the 
grey list.
In  spite  of  the  ambitions  and  noble  vision  of  my 
Government, my country is still facing insurmountable 
challenges that stretch beyond our means and that we 
cannot  address  on  a  national  scale.  That  is  also  the 
case  for  many  other  vulnerable  and  fragile  States.  It 
is therefore essential that the international community 
provide assistance with reasonable criteria for extremely 
vulnerable  countries  facing  external  shocks.  In  the 
Global  Climate  Risk  Index  2014,  four  of  the  Pacific 
island States are among the top 10 countries exposed to 
natural disasters in the world. Vanuatu remains at the 
6/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
head of that list, despite our status as the most beautiful 
and happiest country in the world.
The  magnitude  of  the  devastating  Category  5 
severe tropical cyclone Pam had a major impact on our 
economy. Vanuatu faces one of the highest rates of sea-
level rise that we have seen in the Pacific. Its impact has 
provoked a number of problems from epidemics to the 
multiplication of destructive insects, undermining food 
security  and  affecting  the  variability  of  precipitation. 
That situation has caused various problems for public 
health.
The  presence  of  such  extreme  climate  events  has 
caused major harm to our infrastructure and economy. 
Climate change in Vanuatu is responsible for the loss of 
land to the sea and has also had a devastating effect on 
the food we eat, on our subsistence economy and, above 
all else, on the health of our people. Despite the fact that 
the Pacific is known for floods owing to the rise in sea 
levels,  the  disappearance  of  entire  islands  means  that 
the  people  of  Vanuatu  will  be  forced  to  move  inland. 
However, we will be transforming our ways of life to 
adapt  to  the  climate  change  that  is  already  affecting 
the population.
Although we profoundly appreciate the assistance 
provided by the international community in coordinating 
financial  aid  to  help  rebuild  in  the  aftermath  of 
natural  disasters,  the  actions  of  non-governmental 
organizations,  particularly  international  humanitarian 
organizations,  have  often  proved  ineffective.  The 
non-governmental organizations do not always respect 
the priorities of the country with regard to rebuilding 
and  recovery.  That  is  a  major  challenge  that  all  too 
often  results  in  their  attention  being  redirected  to 
other  needs  that  are  not  the  immediate  ones  of  the 
affected population. The Government could have more 
responsibility  if  the  assistance  funds  were  processed 
through the governmental system.
The inclusion of vulnerable groups, such as people 
with special needs and girls and women, is an important 
priority  for  my  Government.  Our  policy  is  rooted  in 
inclusive economic growth. The scourge of sexual and 
domestic  violence  against  women  and  girls  is  still  a 
major challenge, and if no action is taken, the outlook 
for  global  development  is  uncertain.  My  country  will 
certainly  take  the  necessary  steps  to  confront  that 
challenge.
Although our historical past has seen little change, 
my Government is in slow but steady consultations on 
constitutional reform in order to ensure that, in future, 
women play a more active role in making decisions and 
influencing policies within our Parliament. That major 
reform will have its day.
My country will continue its cooperation with the 
United Nations in the area of global peace and security. 
We cannot guarantee development and the right to a life 
of dignity for our people in a world torn by wars and 
ravaged by conflicts. We all must contribute to efforts 
to maintain peace and global security in the world we 
live in. Vanuatu is proud of having members serve in 
peacekeeping forces under the United Nations banner 
in Haiti and in Côte d’Ivoire. We are ready to send more 
troops in the future if we are called to do so.
Decolonization  remains  a  key  issue  that  requires 
our  collective  efforts  if  we  are  to  make  the  self-
determination of peoples a reality, in accordance with 
the Charter of the United Nations. We must express our 
solidarity and our commitment to eradicate colonialism 
in  all  its  forms.  In  that  regard,  I  am  pleased  to  note 
that the United Nations is aiding New Caledonia with 
its electoral lists. I hope that the controversies related 
to the electoral lists will be resolved amicably among 
the  concerned  parties  and  that  the  next  referendum 
will yield fair, transparent and pacifying results. Going 
forward, it is for the Caledonians to freely choose their 
future self-determination status.
We,  the  leaders  of  the  Pacific  islands,  during  the 
recent  meeting  of  the  Forum  in  the  Federated  States 
of  Micronesia,  accepted  New  Caledonia  and  French 
Polynesia as full members of the Pacific Islands Forum, 
in  spite  of  their  status  as  non-independent  territories. 
This  constitutes  a  major  step  on  the  path  to  regional 
integration  and  the  unification  of  the  Pacific  island 
countries,  leaving  no  one  behind  in  the  fight  against 
the impact of climate change and illegal fishing or in 
the  creation  of  economic  opportunities  through  trade 
and more open economic relationships.
The issue of human rights must remain at the top 
of the United Nations agenda. The Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  reminded  us  in  2012  that  human 
rights  are  inalienable  and  constitute  a  fundamental 
principle  of  the  United  Nations.  As  Members  of  the 
United  Nations,  it  is  our  duty  to  demand  that  those 
words be translated into concrete actions.
The issue of human rights for the peoples in West 
Papua remains unresolved. I stand on this rostrum, as 
did my predecessors with the same moral conviction, to 
16-29679
7/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
call on the United Nations to take concrete measures to 
resolve that question and fellow leaders have supported 
the  plea  of  the  West  Papuans.  The  United  Nations 
should not close its eyes to the abuses of human rights 
in  the  province  of  West  Papua.  The  people  of  West 
Papua have turned to the United Nations for a glimmer 
of hope — a hope for freedom to exercise of their rights 
in their own territory and to freely assert their identity. 
I  urge  the  United  Nations  to  include  this  issue  in  its 
Human Rights Up Front initiative.
In  conclusion,  as  we  begin  an  era  of  sustainable 
development,  the  importance  of  working  together 
becomes more evident and urgent. The implementation 
of international agreements will not be an easy matter, 
given  the  complex  global  challenges  and  the  hostile 
environment  in  which  we  live.  However,  everything 
is possible and we must believe that. We must ensure 
that the promise of the Charter of the United Nations is 
respected for those who need it most. Our role is one of 
bridging the gap between the rhetoric and the action in 
order to ensure that no one is left behind.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Charlot  Salwai  Tabimasmas,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Republic  of  Vanuatu,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Ralph Gonsalves, Prime 
Minister, Minister for Finance, the Public 
Service, National Security, Legal Affairs 
and Grenadines Affairs of Saint Vincent and 
the Grenadines
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister,  Minister  for  Finance,  the  Public  Service, 
National  Security,  Legal  Affairs  and  Grenadines 
Affairs of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.
Mr. Ralph Gonsalves, Prime Minister, Minister for 
Finance,  the  Public  Service,  National  Security, 
Legal  Affairs  and  Grenadines  Affairs  of  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Ralph 
Gonsalves,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for  Finance, 
the  Public  Service,  National  Security,  Legal  Affairs 
and  Grenadines  Affairs  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Gonsalves (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is proud whenever a 
member of our small island developing States assumes 
the presidency of the General Assembly. As we thank 
the  outgoing  President  for  his  noble  efforts,  we  place 
special trust in the new President to lead our Assembly 
at this crucial juncture. From our Atlantic archipelago 
to  his  Pacific  one,  we  pledge  our  cooperation  and 
solidarity as he discharges his important mission.
With  each  passing  year,  the  Assembly  has  heard 
more  and  more  voices  with  greater  and  greater 
intensity  chronicling  the  shortcomings,  as  well  as 
the  possibilities,  of  our  modern  global  order.  As  that 
crescendo  of  collective  wisdom  has  grown  evermore 
powerful,  it  has  become  increasingly  apparent  that 
the  inbuilt  inequalities  of  our  global  architecture  are 
threatening  the  very  foundations  of  this  71-year-old 
international experiment — inequalities of access and 
opportunity,  unequal  distribution  of  global  burdens 
and benefits, a system of double standards untethered 
from principle, a calcification of the very divisions that 
globalization was meant to obliterate.
However,  even  as  the  voices  have  grown  more 
powerful,  the  inequalities  they  decry  have  remained 
stubbornly intractable. The voices from the periphery, 
no matter how loud or plentiful, appear unable to rouse 
the  core  beneficiaries  of  a  flawed  system  from  their 
affluent  apathy.  No  matter  how  many  global  crises 
have been and are plainly rooted in global inequalities, 
powerful  short-term  self-interest  has  prevailed  in  the 
face of collective common sense.
The year 2016 has seen the ripening of the fruit of 
that  short-sighted  approach.  The  pressure  for  change 
now  comes  not  only  from  the  marginalized  outposts 
of  globalization’s  casualties,  but 
internally,  from 
within the rich and powerful nations themselves. The 
globalization’s  discontents  and  its  discontented  have 
reached  critical  mass  within  the  citadels  of  casino 
capitalism and consumption. That discontent has been 
transmitted  with  crystal  clarity  by  way  of  the  ballot 
boxes from Montana to the British Midlands, where the 
cool logic of the status quo was trumped by emotional 
appeals  for  a  return,  however  undesirable,  to  past 
glories  imagined  or  real.  The  crescendo  of  voices  is 
8/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
now  borderless  and  cross-cutting.  It  is  impossible  to 
ignore any longer.
The threadbare clichés of globalization’s presumed 
benefits  are  of  cold  comfort  to  marginalized  nations 
and  peoples.  The  latter  have  fasted  too  long  at  the 
dry  spigot  of  promised  trickle-down  prosperity.  The 
longed-for  rising  tide  that  lifts  all  boats  has  come  in 
the form of rising seas that threaten to inundate small 
island  developing  States  and  a  tsunami  of  corporate 
consolidations that has had a deleterious effect on small 
States,  small  businesses,  small  farmers  and  the  poor. 
This  year,  we  must  address  the  chasm  between  our 
idealistic expectations and our deeply flawed realities. 
Modern  globalization  as  a  concept,  as  a  rules-and-
norms-based  system  and  as  an  international  practice 
is unbalanced and unsustainable. It is a system that is 
broken, one that is not beyond repair, but in urgent need 
of reform. Globalization benefits few and is an onerous 
burden on too many. To use a cricketing metaphor, we 
must take a fresh guard.
It is that urgent need for a fresh and transformative 
approach that adds impetus and a sense of immediacy 
to the President’s theme for this year’s general debate, 
which calls for a universal push to transform our world. 
In order to achieve that transformation, the President has 
recognized the potential of the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), and in doing so has correctly identified 
our existing difficulties as being rooted in the inequities 
that  the  SDGs  seek  to  address.  Our  collective  quest 
to  achieve  those  Goals  is  indistinguishable  from  the 
overarching  pursuit  of  a  fairer,  more  just  and  more 
equal world. We must accept the President’s invitation 
to rethink and redesign our global compact, not in the 
narrow interests of modern-day robber barons, but with 
people-centred programmes and policies in mind.
In  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines,  my 
Government  has  comprehensively  incorporated  the 
2030  Agenda  into  its  planning.  It  has  focused  on 
economic  development  and 
job  creation,  quality 
education,  poverty  eradication,  the  strengthening  of 
institutions  and 
infrastructure,  renewable  energy, 
climate  resilience  and  the  health,  well-being  and 
security of citizens. These are all central to our national 
medium-term development plans.
This  year,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines 
launched a zero-hunger trust fund, inspired by Goals 1 
and 2 of the SDGs. The zero-hunger trust fund employs 
a  narrowly  targeted  and  multifaceted  set  of  tools  that 
are  designed  to  ensure  that,  by  2020,  no  citizen  goes 
hungry.  We  hope  that  the  fund  will  be  generously 
supported  by  our  developmental  partners  and  that  it 
will  become  a  best  practice  that  can  be  adopted  and 
adapted in other small island contexts.
Goal  7  of  the  SDGs  calls  for  the  development  of 
renewable  energy  with  particular  emphasis  on  small 
island  States.  In  our  quest  for  affordable  and  clean 
energy, our country has heavily invested in developing 
its  geothermal  resources.  We  anticipate  that  by  2019, 
50 per cent of our national energy will be geothermal 
and 80 per cent of our energy will come from a mixture 
of  renewable  resources,  including  hydroelectric  and 
solar  energy.  We  are  indebted  to  the  Clinton  Global 
Initiative,  the  Abu  Dhabi  Fund  for  Development,  the 
International  Fund  for  Agricultural  Development,  the 
Caribbean  Development  Bank,  and  the  International 
Renewable Energy Agency, to name but a few, for their 
invaluable support of the initiative.
As  major  greenhouse-gas  emitters  continue  to 
dither,  more  frequent  and  more  intense  hurricanes 
continue  to  sweep  our  lands  and  to  wash  away  large 
portions of our gross domestic product. We are already 
experiencing the terrible effects of climate change. The 
spotlight  on  mitigation  should  now  also  be  shone  on 
adaptation,  which  is  a  more  immediate  concern.  The 
trajectory  we  face  is  one  of  rising  temperatures  and 
the mitigation pledges made by countries ahead of the 
Paris Agreement in December 2015 put us on track for 
a  3-3.5°C  increase  in  global  temperatures  by  the  end 
of the century. I applaud the international community 
for reaching the much-anticipated Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change in December last year, as well as the 
Secretary-General  for  convening  the  high-level  event 
on  entry  into  force  of  Paris  Agreement  during  the 
current seventy-first session.
However, 
in 
the  promises  made 
the  Paris 
Agreement  to  mitigate  climate  change  and  to  provide 
climate financial aid are inadequate and unenforceable. 
Indeed, as President Obama of the United States noted 
in  his  final  address  to  this  Organization,  the  Paris 
Agreement is just a framework; therefore, we need to 
be more ambitious. The failure to mobilize sufficiently 
and  facilitate  access  to  promised  climate  financial 
aid  mirrors  official  development  aid  scenarios,  where 
the  majority  of  developed  countries  have  failed  to 
meet  the  0.7  per  cent  target  of  gross  national  income 
that  was  agreed  to  in  the  Monterrey  Consensus  in 
16-29679
9/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
2002.  Accessing  the  promised  financial  aid  has  been 
extremely difficult.
For globalization to be legitimately transformed, it 
must be fully inclusive. That inclusivity must be based 
on the principles of sovereign equality, non-interference 
embodied in the letter and the spirit of the Charter of the 
United Nations and on an end to the cynical enabling of 
major Powers’ interests at the expense of people’s lives 
and livelihoods. Nowhere is that cynicism and feigned 
impotence more apparent than in the civil war that has 
devastated the Syrian Arab Republic over the past five 
years. The Assembly and the Security Council have too 
frequently  turned  a  blind  eye  and  stayed  silent  when 
faced with the actions of countries that have sought to 
fund and foment war and instability in Syria. Creative 
diplomacy,  not  military  victory,  is  clearly  the  answer 
for putting an end to this conflict.
The  impotence  of  learned  helplessness  and  the 
tyranny  of  failure  to  intervene  has  meant  that  many 
nations  have  been  repeatedly  and  unjustly  excluded 
from  the  promise  of  an  integrated  world.  The  people 
of the State of Palestine are victims of that impotence, 
despite the overwhelming recognition of Palestine and 
the obvious need for an independent and internationally 
supported  contiguous  State,  where  the  population  is 
able to live in peace alongside its Israeli neighbours.
The  people-centred  and  progressive  leaders  of 
Latin America and the Caribbean, who dared to dream 
of  alternatives  to  an  iniquitous  status  quo,  are  once 
again  being  punished  for  their  impertinence  —  from 
the continued embargo against the noble Cuban people 
and  the  externally  stoked  unrest  in  Venezuela,  to  the 
parliamentary coup d’état in Brazil. We are entering a 
new but depressingly familiar chapter in a book that is 
already  soaked  with  the  blood  of  progressive  heroes. 
However,  the  schemes  of  yesteryear,  with  their  dirty 
tricks  and  divisions,  will  fail  when  faced  with  the 
new  solidarity  that  has  taken  root  across  our  region. 
Our  States,  as  part  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM),  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States,  the  Bolivarian  Alternative  for  the 
Americas as well as the signatories to the Petrocaribe 
Energy  Cooperation  Agreement,  understand 
the 
unshakeable  strength  that  comes  from  unity  and  the 
courage of our collective convictions.
This  year  marks  the  inauguration  of  a  new, 
democratically  elected  President  of  the  Republic  of 
China  on  Taiwan.  The  Government  of  Saint  Vincent 
and the Grenadines reaffirms our continued solidarity 
with the aspirations of the Taiwanese Government and 
people, just as they have stood with us throughout our 
post-independence development journey. We decry the 
myopia  of  a  body  that  pretends  24  million  people  do 
not exist and that has forced people to choose between 
two  magnificent  exemplars  of  the  noble  Chinese 
civilization.  Such  behaviour  marginalizes  a  vibrant 
population and creates space for parasitic opportunists 
to  prostitute  principle  for  personal  gain.  We  must 
recognize  Taiwan’s  exemplary  global 
leadership 
and  citizenship  and  its  commitment  to  development 
worldwide. It is high time that the Republic of China on 
Taiwan be allowed to participate meaningfully in all of 
the  specialized  bodies  and  programmes  of  the  United 
Nations  system.  There  is  absolutely  no  compelling 
argument to the contrary.
I  have  spoken  in  the  past  of  the  shameful  failure 
on  the  part  of  the  United  Nations  to  acknowledge  its 
indisputable role in the spread of cholera in Haiti. The 
catastrophe  has  now  killed  over  10,000  Haitians  and 
infected  almost  800,000  others.  The  outbreak  shows 
no  sign  of  abating.  Last  month,  the  United  Nations 
belatedly acknowledged its culpability while continuing 
to use claims of immunity to deny the victims of such a 
tragedy their fundamental right to be made whole. The 
cholera epidemic and the failure of the United Nations 
to address or arrest it has laid bare a shameful ethical 
bankruptcy  and  institutional  cowardice  through  legal 
subterfuge.  The  report  of  the  Special  Rapporteur  on 
extreme poverty and human rights, Mr. Philip Alston, 
has  called  the  response  of  the  United  Nations  to  the 
cholera  epidemic,  “morally  unconscionable,  legally 
indefensible  and  politically  self-defeating”  (A/71/367, 
p. 2). We agree.
In  Haiti’s  neighbour,  the  Dominican  Republic, 
the human rights crisis affecting tens of thousands of 
Dominican-born  citizens  of  Haitian  descent  remains 
unresolved.  As  the  Caribbean  community  and  other 
actors  have  sought 
the  Dominican 
authorities  to  respect  the  rights  of  its  citizens  against 
statelessness  and  State-sponsored  ethnic  and  racial 
victimization,  indifference  on  the  part  of  the  United 
Nations is wholly unacceptable.
to  persuade 
Ms. Young (Belize), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The  Caribbean  communities’  determined  quest 
for  reparatory  justice  for  victims  of  the  transatlantic 
slave  trade  —  a  native  genocide  —  continues  to 
10/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
gather  momentum.  Historians,  economists  and  other 
academics,  human  rights  lawyers  and  social  activists 
across  the  world  have  coalesced  into  a  formidable 
advocacy  and  educational  force  around  our  cause. 
Our  citizens  continue  to  be  enthusiastically  engaged 
in  the  process  of  discussion  and  awareness.  We  call 
upon  the  European  nations  that  created  and  profited 
immeasurably  from  the  indefensible  trade  of  human 
beings  to  join  us  in  the  conversation  about  the 
contours  of  a  just  and  appropriate  response  to  such 
a  monumental  tragedy  and  its  consequential  legacy 
of underdevelopment.
The  uneven  prolonged  aftermath  of  the  2008 
global  economic  and  financial  crisis  highlights  the 
need for reform in all the major global institutions. We 
are  having  difficulties  across  the  world  with  heavy-
handed  financial  regulations  that  hamper  legitimate 
transactions and the corresponding banking relations.
As I conclude, I stress that the dream of equitable 
development  cannot  be  deferred  any  longer.  Let  us 
imagine a better world, a fairer world, a peaceful world, 
a  world  with  a  safe  and  sustainable  future  —  and  let 
us work towards that world, unburdened by the errors 
of the past or constrained by the shackles of a learned 
helplessness,  but  confident,  optimistic  and  clear-
sighted  about  the  boundless  possibilities  of  genuine 
international  cooperation.  The  universal  push 
to 
transform our world is urgent and necessary. We know 
and feel that fundamental truth. It is time for focused 
and meaningful action. Let us get on with it.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister 
for  Finance,  the  Public  Service,  National  Security, 
Legal Affairs and Grenadines Affairs of Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Ralph Gonsalves, Prime Minister, Minister for 
Finance,  the  Public  Service,  National  Security, 
Legal  Affairs  and  Grenadines  Affairs  of  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Enele Sosene Sopoaga, Prime 
Minister and Minister for Public Utilities 
of Tuvalu
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister and Minister for 
Public Utilities of Tuvalu.
Mr.  Enele  Sosene  Sopoaga,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Public Utilities of Tuvalu, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Enele Sosene Sopoaga, 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Public  Utilities  of 
Tuvalu, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Sopoaga (Tuvalu): On behalf of the Government 
and  people  of  Tuvalu,  I  bring  greetings  to  the  United 
Nations. We offer our prayers for those affected by the 
tragic loss of lives resulting from acts of violence here 
in our host country, the United States of America, and 
worldwide.
Let  me  now  add  Tuvalu’s  commendations  to  the 
President of the General Assembly, Mr. Peter Thomson 
of  Fiji,  who  takes  the  helm  at  this  session.  While  we 
appreciate the enormous task placed upon Fiji, we also 
have  full  confidence  in  the  ability  of  Mr.  Thomson 
and  Fiji  to  steer  us  through  the  troubled  waters  of 
global oceans.
As  the  smallest  Member  of  the  United  Nations 
family,  Tuvalu  continues  to  hold  dear  the  noble 
values  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations.  We  very 
much hope that, as a result of the action of the United 
Nations, peoples of all races and creeds, of all countries 
big and small, particularly those whose very existence 
is  threatened  by  human-induced  strife,  conflicts  and 
especially  by  the  impacts  of  climate  change,  will 
be saved.
Over  the  past  few  days,  the  leadership  of  the 
Organization has been put to the test. Will we as leaders 
be able to provide a vessel, a canoe, buoyant enough to 
protect and save even the smallest islands of the planet? 
Will the canoe of the United Nations enable us to rise 
with the tide of progress and to sail through the surges 
of environmental insecurity and climate change, or will 
it sink us?
Tuvalu is immensely encouraged by the actions of 
world leaders in the past week, by the strong leadership 
of  our  Secretary-General  and  by  the  goodwill  of 
humankind that continues to prevail. The adoption of 
the New York Declaration on the Movement of Migrants 
and Refugees (71/1), the compounding commitment to 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 
many countries that have ratified the Paris Agreement 
on  Climate  Change  have  given  us  hope  and  renewed 
trust and confidence in the work of the United Nations 
16-29679
11/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
and  its  ability  to  fulfil  our  hopes  for  the  security, 
progress, and protection of our human rights.
And  now  we  must  deliver  on  our  words.  Tuvalu 
applauds  the  strong  leadership  of  the  United  States 
of  America,  other  major  greenhouse-gas  emitters  and 
the  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS)  —  all  of 
them, from the Pacific islands to other regions like the 
Caribbean and the Indian Ocean — to ratify the Paris 
Agreement on climate change. But that is not enough. 
We  must  ensure  that  the  Paris  Agreement  enters  into 
force.  It  must  be  fully  elaborated  and  operationalized 
as early as possible in order to achieve real adaptation 
and mitigation.
Atoll nations such as Tuvalu, Kiribati, the Marshall 
Islands, the Maldives, Tokelau and all other SIDS — Fiji, 
Papua New Guinea, Vanuatu and Samoa — are already 
suffering  the  impacts  of  climate  change  and  sea-level 
rise.  Many  predict  their  total  extinction  if  nothing  is 
urgently done. That cannot and must not be allowed to 
happen. It would be shameful for humankind to allow 
such an eventuality. It would be shameful of us if we 
who are sitting in this Hall were not to take action to 
stop that from happening.
Tuvalu therefore appeals to all States to ensure that 
our collective efforts under the Paris Agreement keep 
the global temperature increase to below 1.5°C relative 
to pre-industrial levels, not only to fulfil the objectives 
of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, but to save 
us  all  and  ensure  our  future  survival.  We  pray  that, 
through  the  United  Nations,  our  humble  voice  will 
prevail on the conscience and goodwill of humankind 
to take real and urgent action.
We  must  also  ensure  that  we  take  account  of 
the  protection  of  the  human  rights  of  those  people 
displaced by the impacts of climate change. We need a 
legal framework to that end, and Tuvalu has proposed a 
United Nations resolution facilitating the establishment 
of just such a framework.
On behalf of Tuvalu, I pay tribute to the Secretary-
General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his steadfast stewardship 
and  his  commitment  to  the  noble  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  peoples  of  the 
world.  We  have  made  tremendous  strides  under  his 
leadership. As he leaves the United Nations, I wish him 
and his family well in their future plans.
The work of the General Assembly at its seventy-
first  session  is  no  different  than  at  past  sessions, 
except for its urgency. Tuvalu welcomes the Secretary-
General’s report (A/71/1) and pledges its support to the 
theme,  entitled  “The  Sustainable  Development  Goals: 
a  universal  push  to  transform  our  world”.  However, 
as  noted  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  there  is  a 
real  need  for  urgent  actions  to  address  the  growing 
multiplicity and complexity of global challenges. It is 
vitally  important  that  we  address  gender  inequalities 
and ensure the rights of people with disabilities.
As regards peace and security, we applaud the work 
of  the  United  Nations  on  many  fronts  and  encourage 
further work to find long-lasting solutions to the long 
drawn-out conflicts in Syria, Ukraine and other troubled 
spots of the world. The loss of precious lives and misery 
are totally unacceptable and must be stopped.
We also encourage and welcome the normalization 
of  diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States.  However,  we  believe  that  it  is  important  for 
the  sake  of  peace  and  security  that  those  relations  be 
pragmatically translated into other areas of cooperation. 
We  should  recognize,  of  course,  Cuba’s  humanitarian 
support  and  contribution  —  including  its  support  to 
Tuvaluans  in  the  form  of  scholarships  and  training, 
from which we have tremendously benefited.
The provocative actions displayed by the People’s 
Democratic Republic of Korea against the Republic of 
Korea  and  their  potential  implications  for  peace  and 
security  in  the  world,  including  in  our  own  Pacific 
Ocean  region,  are  totally  unacceptable.  We  deplore 
those  actions  and  urge  that  urgent  steps  be  taken  to 
completely suspend them at the earliest opportunity.
We are also concerned about the continuing denial 
of the right of the 24 million people of the Republic of 
China  on  Taiwan  to  be  readmitted  to  United  Nations 
membership  so  that  they  can  participate  in  the  work 
of the United Nations and its specialized agencies. We 
need to recognize that Taiwan is a vibrant democracy, 
which  has  recently  elected  and  inaugurated  a  new 
President.  Taiwan’s  genuine  efforts  in  supporting 
various developmental and humanitarian undertakings, 
including  in  Tuvalu  and  many  developing  countries, 
need  to  be  recognized  as  well.  As  we  embark  on  the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs),  Taiwan’s  direct  and  indirect  support  will 
greatly help in leveraging existing partnerships. Taiwan 
is  already  involved  in  the  work  of  many  specialized 
United  Nations  bodies,  such  as  the  World  Health 
Organization  and  the  International  Civil  Aviation 
12/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
Organization.  We  therefore  truly  believe  that  Taiwan 
deserves  international  recognition  and  to  become  an 
active  member  of  and  participant  in  all  the  bodies  of 
the United Nations system.
In the same vein, the principle of self-determination 
must also be respected and honoured. This great body 
cannot  continue  to  ignore  the  ongoing  violations  of 
human rights in West Papua and that territory’s desire 
to  achieve  self-determination.  It  must  take  them  into 
account. It must not be blinded by the actions that are 
being  carried  out  under  the  guise  of  the  principles  of 
non-interference  and  sovereignty.  The  United  Nations 
must act in this matter and find a workable solution to 
give autonomy to the indigenous peoples of West Papua.
We  are  pleased  that  we  now  have  a  united  front 
with  respect  to  development,  our  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  which  is  underpinned  by 
the  key  principles  of  interdependence,  universality 
and  solidarity.  No  country  big  or  small,  rich  or  poor, 
can  achieve  its  SDGs  alone.  We  must  collaborate  in 
durable and genuine partnerships on all the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  for  the  benefit  of  all.  Our  urgent 
focus, however, must be on the individuals at the margins 
of our societies, who can easily be left behind. We are 
indeed their beacon of hope. We must find practical and 
timely  remedies  that  remedy  the  basic  inequities  and 
insecurities that persist. Our 2030 Agenda must deliver 
in  ensuring  the  fundamental  rights  and  welfare  of  all 
citizens in current as well as future generations.
Our  unity  is  founded  on  diversity.  The  United 
Nations can only be as effective as the sum of all positive 
national  and  regional  actions  put  together.  We  are 
grateful for the work resulting in the SIDS Accelerated 
Modalities  of  Action  (SAMOA)  Pathway  (Samoa 
Pathway) and believe that, for SIDS like Tuvalu not to 
be left behind, it is critical that the Samoa Pathway be 
fully implemented, and that proper provision for SIDS 
be made in all United Nations agencies and programmes.
Tuvalu  has  recently  launched  its  own  national 
strategy  for  sustainable  development.  It  is  called  Te 
Kakeega  III  —  meaning  “progress”  in  Tuvalu  —  and 
reflects  the  2030  Agenda.  Te  Kakeega  III  is  based 
on  a  theme  entitled  “Protect  and  save  Tuvalu”  and 
on  the  principles  of  local  ownership,  leadership, 
development  and  inclusiveness  in  decision-making, 
as  well  as  on  mutual  trust  and  respect  in  working 
with  our  partners.  We  acknowledge  the  invaluable 
contributions  of  our  development  partners:  Australia, 
New  Zealand,  Japan,  the  European  Union  and  the 
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan,  together  with  all  other 
bilateral and multilateral partners. The ultimate focus 
of Te Kakeega III is to fortify the resilience of Tuvalu 
and  to  reduce  the  vulnerabilities  specific  to  its  land 
territory,  territorial  waters,  biodiversity  and,  most 
important of all, its people, through education, training 
and  capacity-building.  Tuvalu  welcomes  durable  and 
genuine partnerships with the international community. 
All  countries  should  advance  together  —  though  at  a 
different  pace,  but  progressively  nevertheless.  Each 
country  must  drive  its  own  pursuits,  in  tune  with  its 
own capabilities and circumstances.
Fundamental gaps exist in the achievement of our 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), especially in 
the least developed countries that are also small island 
developing States, like my own country, Tuvalu. While 
poverty  indices  in  our  countries  may  have  improved, 
our  atoll  nations  will  forever  encounter  development 
difficulties, and our level of vulnerabilities and fragility 
will  continue  to  present  us  with  unique  challenges, 
however well-intentioned and well-planned our actions 
may be. Accordingly, special windows of opportunity 
for SIDS and the least developed countries are needed. 
We must not experience again the shortfalls that befell 
us under the MDGs. There must be genuine partnerships 
to deal with our unique and particular challenges.
Irrespective  of  how  well-intentioned  or  how 
well  written  our  national  strategies  for  sustainable 
development may be, our efforts and long-term survival 
and  security  will  be  seriously  compromised  unless 
urgent actions on climate change are taken at all levels. 
In  our  view,  the  cause  and  effects  of  climate  change, 
including the threats to the survival of people worldwide, 
especially  in  SIDS,  have  been  thoroughly  explained, 
first in the plethora of United Nations documentation, 
and  now  in  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change. 
The time for talking is over; it is now time to walk the 
talk and ensure the full elaboration and implementation 
of what has been agreed upon. We must ensure that our 
commitments under the Paris Agreement are all met.
Tuvalu  has  exerted  every  effort  to  contribute 
its  voice  —  however  small,  however  low  —  at  the 
global level, and we are proud to have been part of the 
negotiations on climate change since the Rio Summit, 
and through thick and thin, and heat and cold, until the 
twenty-first  session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change, with its successful outcome: the Paris 
16-29679
13/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
Agreement on Climate Change. Tuvalu was among the 
first countries to sign and ratify the Paris Agreement 
here in April.
In  practical  terms,  we  are  not  giving  up.  We 
will  never  give  up.  We  are  committed  to  reducing 
our  greenhouse-gas  emissions,  as  we  stated  in  our 
Intended Nationally Determined Contributions, and by 
2020 we shall have reached our target of 100 per cent 
electricity generation from renewable sources. Tuvalu 
has also established a Tuvalu Climate Change Survival 
Fund,  using  its  own  meagre  financial  resources,  as  a 
mechanism to show that we are serious in saving our 
people  and  enabling  them  to  forever  remain  on  the 
islands.  The  Survival  Fund  is  now  also  a  catalyst  to 
engage in meaningful partnerships with the world.
However,  on  our  own,  we  are  quite  unable  to 
afford the immense cost of adapting to the impacts of 
climate change. In that respect, we are deeply grateful 
for the support that has come bilaterally and from the 
agencies  of  the  Council  of  Regional  Organizations  in 
the  Pacific,  from  various  United  Nations  bodies  in 
the Asia and Pacific region, as well as to the work of 
the Green Climate Fund (GCF) and its Board. Tuvalu 
is currently one of only two SIDS in the Pacific with 
approved  funding  for  adaptation  work  on  the  ground. 
We thank the United Nations Development Programme 
for  partnering  with  Tuvalu  in  the  development  of  our 
proposal. We also thank the two co-Chairs and Board 
members  of  GCF,  and  in  particular  our  own  SIDS 
representation on the GCF Board, for their favourable 
consideration. While we appreciate past assistance, we 
continue to need help in building our national capacity 
with respect to writing project proposals and reporting 
on progress. Let me assure both members and partners 
of GCF of Tuvalu’s total commitment to ensuring the 
success of the approved project, and, of course, our full 
cooperation in future partnerships with GCF.
We are also very appreciative of the assistance that 
we  received  following  Tropical  Cyclone  Pam  in  2015. 
However,  we  believe  that  there  is  a  need  to  establish 
a  more  systematic  mechanism  to  respond  to  disasters 
in  small  island  development  States,  particularly  those 
in the Pacific. We have proposed the establishment of 
a  Pacific  climate  change  insurance  facility  to  help  us 
receive assistance in a timely manner during disasters, 
without having to wait for partnerships and responses 
from partners.
We  welcome  the  Oceans  Conference  to  be  held 
next  year  by  the  United  Nations.  The  Pacific  Island 
countries  were  instrumental  in  ensuring  that  oceans 
were  included  in  the  SDGs.  The  oceans  provide  the 
basis  for  our  life.  We  therefore  stress  the  need  for 
collective action to properly address illegal, unreported 
and  unregulated  fishing,  ocean  acidification, 
the 
protection of biodiversity beyond the limits of national 
jurisdiction,  and  reforms 
the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea, so as to protect the 
natural resources of our islands.
to 
Instead  of  singing  the  same  old  tune  about  good 
governance  and  political  solutions,  we  need  moral 
probity and soul-searching in dealing with the oceans. 
More than ever, we need the helping hand of Almighty 
God  to  guide  us  in  our  work.  We  must  place  God  at 
the  centre  of  our  human  efforts  and  the  endeavours 
of  the  United  Nations,  to  ensure  that  we  successfully 
reach our destination together. Next week, Tuvalu will 
celebrate the thirtieth anniversary of its independence. 
I ask Members to partner with Tuvalu and with God as 
we journey forward.
I wish the Assembly success in reaching its goals 
the current session. I would like to reiterate that Tuvalu 
is  fully  committed  to  multilateralism.  We  believe 
that  we  cannot  survive  as  a  State  without  our  United 
Nations.  If  we  save  Tuvalu,  and  SIDS,  through  the 
SDGs, particularly through Goal 13, on climate change, 
and Goal 14, on oceans, we will save the world. May 
God bless the United Nations. May God bless Tuvalu.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Public Utilities of Tuvalu for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Enele  Sosene  Sopoaga,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Public Utilities of Tuvalu, was escorted 
from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Patrice Emery Trovoada, Prime 
Minister of the Democratic Republic of Sao 
Tome and Principe
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Democratic 
Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.
Mr. Patrice Emery Trovoada, Prime Minister of the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
14/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Patrice  Emery 
Trovoada, Prime Minister of the Republic of Sao Tome 
and Principe, and inviting him to address the Assembly. 
Mr.  Trovoada  (Sao  Tome  and  Principe)  (spoke 
in  French):  Allow  me,  at  this  seventy-first  session  of 
the  General  Assembly,  to  congratulate,  on  behalf  of 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
President  Peter  Thomson  on  his  election  and  to  wish 
him every success. We hope that during his presidency 
our  Organization  will  be  able  to  address  and  resolve 
the major issues that affect our respective peoples and 
our planet as a whole, following on from the adoption 
in 2015 of the Sustainable Development Goals for 2030.
this 
opportunity  to  pay  homage  to  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  sustained  efforts  throughout  his 
two  terms  of  office  to  help  our  Organization  grow 
and  reinforce  its  role  and  action,  focusing  on  peace, 
democracy  and  the  protection  of  life  in  all  its  forms 
and elements.
My  delegation  would  also 
like 
to 
take 
The  annual  convening  of  the  General  Assembly 
can in many respects be interpreted by the people that 
we represent as an act of powerlessness, arising from 
the  fact  that  the  world  continues  to  live  in  tension, 
with more than its fair share of indescribable suffering 
on  a  daily  basis,  as  a  result  of  past  conflicts,  new 
conflicts  and  poorly  managed  conflicts.  At  a  time 
when the treatment of refugees fleeing war or hunger 
or  both  collides  with  populism  and  extremism,  the 
democracies  of  rich  countries  appear  to  provide  false 
responses to real problems, rendering them even more 
complex, stigmatizing and isolating our fellow peoples 
as  simplistic  slogans  and  reductive  schemes  increase 
divisions between peoples, civilizations and cultures.
We are pleased that the high-level plenary meeting 
on addressing large movements of refugees and migrants 
was held here at Headquarters a few days ago. But the 
United Nations, and particularly the Security Council, 
must  do  more  to  bring  definitive  settlements  to  the 
conflicts that are fuelling terrorism, the disappearance 
of States and the despair of populations. In this sense, 
we  await  the  urgent  adoption  of  the  comprehensive 
convention on international terrorism.
We believe it to be essential that our Organization 
establish more binding mechanisms to ensure effective 
solidarity  with  the  victims  of  war  and  terrorism  and 
bring  about  solutions  for  old  and  recent  conflicts, 
particularly  the  Israel-Palestine  conflict  and  those  in 
Syria and Libya, as well as the emergence of terrorist 
groups in the Sahel. Because of these conflicts, we are 
compelled to deploy a prevention policy to ensure that 
other issues of conflict do not arise. We must ensure on 
a  permanent  basis  that  States  respect  the  integrity  of 
human beings and the right to freedom of expression and 
to regular, just and transparent elections, and that post-
conflict commitments are fulfilled by stakeholders.
We  are  pleased  to  witness  the  return  of  peace 
and  the  conclusion  of  the  electoral  process  in  the 
Central  African  Republic.  We  encourage  support  for 
the  achievement  of  better  conditions  for  the  free  and 
peaceful  elections  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo, and we reaffirm our commitment to the dialogue 
and consultations between neighbouring States in order 
to  stabilize  South  Sudan,  Burundi  and  Somalia.  We 
also welcome the Colombian peace agreement and the 
rapprochement  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States 
of America.
Humankind  has  always  made  genuine  progress 
when peaceful coexistence and quest for solutions are 
prioritized, thanks to the opening of hearts and minds 
to  differences,  innovation,  tolerance  and  respect  for 
others. We strongly believe in our Organization as the 
ideal vehicle for bringing harmony to our world through 
respect for differences, cultures and government models 
and  systems,  as  well  as  by  constructing  intelligent 
solutions  based  on  cooperation  and  exchanges  that 
generate  wealth,  prosperity  and  sustainable  peace 
for everyone.
The  role  accorded  to  sustainable  development  at 
the two most recent sessions of the General Assmebly 
demonstrates  the  undeniable  spirit  of  inclusion  that 
drives us. However, it is clear that this belief in inclusion 
and  the  quest  for  sustainable  development,  peace  and 
security cannot become a reality unless we reform our 
Organization.  We  must  make  it  more  credible,  more 
effective,  more  efficient  and  more  representative, 
in  particular  by  ending  a  situation  in  which  Africa 
is  the  sole  continent  without  a  permanent  seat  on  the 
Security Council.
My  country,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  is  a  young 
democracy  that  has  been  functioning  for  almost  26 
years. In August, it again held democratic elections, in 
which  it  elected  its  fourth  President  of  the  Republic. 
Despite  being  an  island  State,  the  second-smallest 
State in Africa and a State without mineral resources, 
16-29679
15/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
we  have  nevertheless  made  remarkable  progress  in 
human  development,  with  a  school  enrolment  rate  of 
over  97  per  cent,  an  electricity  coverage  rate  of  over 
60 per cent, an Internet penetration rate that is growing 
exponentially, one of the lowest rates of malaria in Africa 
and recognized advances in matters of governance and 
business  climate.  We  are  without  a  doubt  on  track  to 
meeting the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.
Although 
the  challenges  of  democracy  and 
political  stability  are  assured  by  the  solidity  of  our 
institutions,  the  vibrance  of  our  civil  society  and  the 
good sense of our political establishment, Government 
and opposition alike, this does not necessarily translate 
to economic gain, particularly when it comes to long-
term  financing,  which  we  need  for  the  building  of 
infrastructure in order to attract the private investment 
that  will  generate  employment  for  young  people  and 
wealth and tax revenue for the State. This leads us to 
conclude  that,  when  60  per  cent  of  the  population  is 
under the age of 20, there can be no lasting democratic 
gains unless there is economic growth on a sustained 
basis  —  a  situation  that  cannot  be  ignored  owing  to 
its  highly  destabilizing  nature  in  the  event  of  failed 
development policies.
My Government has been doing its part by engaging 
in  action,  undertaking  reforms  and  achieving  results. 
Nevertheless, we invite developed countries to ensure 
that  their  commitments  to  sustainable  development 
funding  are  fulfilled  through,  inter  alia,  the  diverse 
mechanisms  announced  following  the  Addis  Ababa 
Action  Agenda  of  the  Third  International  Conference 
on Financing for Development and during the twenty-
first  session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change in Paris. We also call upon multilateral financial 
institutions to increase their concessional lending.
to 
A  universal  push 
transform  our  world 
depends  principally  on  the  mobilization  of  financial 
resources.  The  necessary  financial  windfall,  capable 
of  electrifying  our  continent,  irrigating  its  fields, 
combating its endemic diseases, eliminating its hunger 
and promoting professional training, does exist. We see 
it every day in the capital markets and in the economic 
and financial press. Let us therefore act now. Access to 
development loans is the only response, and it will also 
help to relaunch the global economy with the necessary 
conditions for risk mitigation, good governance and the 
fight against illicit financial flows.
is 
lagging  behind 
Africa,  my  continent, 
in 
practically  all  the  human  development  indexes.  This 
same Africa paid a heavy price for its contribution to 
the development of other nations for centuries. But let 
us not dwell on the past; let us instead exercise common 
sense  and  be  expedient.  Africa  is  still  a  continent  of 
opportunity  for  all,  with  its  mineral  resources,  arable 
lands, forest, rivers and, above all, its youth.
This  year  we  will  be  called  upon  to  elect  a  new 
Secretary-General,  and  this  election  must  take  place 
in  ideal  objective  conditions  in  order  to  galvanize  all 
the support needed to carry out this difficult but noble 
and vital mission of delivering peace and development 
to humankind.
Sao  Tome  and  Principe  reiterates  its  commitment 
to the international community and to working towards 
building  a  world  that  is  better  for  everyone.  May  our 
hard work bear fruit.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Patrice Emery Trovoada, Prime Minister of the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Ms. Delcy Eloina Rodriguez 
Gómez, Political Vice-President and Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Bolivarian Republic 
of Venezuela
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Political  Vice-President  and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Bolivarian Republic 
of Venezuela.
Ms.  Delcy  Eloina  Rodriguez  Gómez,  Political 
Vice-President and Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Delcy  Eloina 
Rodriguez  Gómez,  Political  Vice-President  and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Bolivarian Republic 
of Venezuela, and inviting her to address the Assembly.
Ms.  Rodríguez  Gómez  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): On behalf of Mr. Nicolás 
Maduro Moros, President of the Bolivarian Republic of 
16/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
Venezuela, I would like to congratulate the President on 
his election to lead the work of the General Assembly 
at  its  seventy-first  session.  We  would  like  to  express 
our  firm  resolve  to  contribute  to  the  success  of  his 
leadership and thereby to strengthening the Assembly’s 
authority  as  the  most  representative  and  democratic 
organ of the United Nations.
self-determination, 
We are in the sacred home of the multilateral system, 
representing a banner for fundamental principles in the 
international  relations  between  sovereign  and  equal 
States. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela endorses 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations,  which  uphold  respect  for  the  right  of  States 
to 
independence 
and  territorial  integrity  as  the  fundamental  basis  for 
ensuring  peaceful  coexistence  among  nations  in  the 
context of a multinational system. As a non-permanent 
member  of  the  Security  Council  since  January  2015, 
Venezuela  has  worked  to  reaffirm  the  primacy  of 
sovereignty, political independence, self-determination 
and the peaceful resolution of disputes.
sovereignty, 
A  year  ago,  here  in  the  General  Assembly  Hall, 
our Heads of State and Government adopted the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, with the ultimate 
goal  of  eradicating  hunger  and  poverty,  and  noting 
that  the  Agenda  must  be  people-centred,  universal 
and  transformative.  However,  I  would  like  to  focus 
our  attention  on  the  chief  obstacle  preventing  the 
world from achieving those noble goals. The capitalist 
model  is  a  huge  impediment  to  our  peoples’  right  to 
development. It creates profound inequalities and is a 
threat to the very existence of the planet and the human 
species. In the past 50 years, the consumption generated 
by  capitalism  has  succeeded  in  melting  the  polar  ice 
caps  and  creating  unsustainable  climate  conditions 
on  our  planet.  In  the  words  of  Pope  Francis  in  his 
encyclical  Laudato  si’,  man’s  actions  and  his  models 
of production and consumption have turned the planet 
into a huge garbage heap. That model is sustained and 
developed  through  the  expansion  of  violence  in  its 
various  manifestations,  both  in  internal  conflicts  and 
widespread warfare.
spending 
In  2015  global  military 
reached 
$1.7 trillion, one third of which — $600 billion, for some 
countries an almost unimaginably huge figure — was 
spent  by  the  United  States  alone  to  finance  its  wars 
and  acts  of  imperial  aggression.  The  United  States 
has about 800 military bases around the world, whose 
maintenance costs about $100 billion a year. It was not 
without  reason  that  in  1968  Martin  Luther  King  said 
that the United States is the largest exporter of violence 
in the world.
The  death  totals  in  conflicts  over  the  past  five 
centuries reveal the intrinsic link between violence and 
the expansion of capitalism. The sixteenth century saw 
1.6 million people die as a result of conflict. The figure 
for  the  seventeenth  century  was  6.1  million;  for  the 
eighteenth, 7 million; for the nineteenth, 19.4 million, 
and for the twentieth, 109.7 million. That tragic story 
of  deadly  violence  has  gone  hand  in  hand  with  the 
expansion  of  capitalism  and  its  financial  effects.  The 
ratio of the victims of deadly violence as a percentage of 
the total population therefore increased over those five 
centuries from 0.32 to 4.35, making for an increasingly 
violent world. The forms that wars take today have also 
changed. Internal conflicts now predominate, and they 
happen more often in poor countries. To give just one 
example,  a  2005  United  Nations  report  cites  a  tragic 
figure  illustrating  the  relationship  between  violence 
and  capitalism  —  of  the  3  million  people  killed  by 
conflicts since 1990, 2 million were children.
Capitalism  is  a  serious  threat  to  the  future  of 
humankind.  Terrorism,  that  heinous  expression  of 
deadly  violence,  has  also  changed,  becoming  more 
violent  and  more  widespread,  attacking  countries 
that  are  poor  or  have  been  ruined,  and  focusing  on 
geopolitical ends in order to bring about the collapse of 
States and their institutions and to enable terrorists to 
expropriate their strategic resources illegally. Venezuela 
rejects  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  condemns  the 
double  standard  whereby  the  centres  of  hegemonic 
power establish an artificial dividing line for terrorism, 
which is good if it agrees with their desire to overthrow 
Governments that are not aligned with their interests, 
and  bad  when  unwanted  boomerang  effects  victimize 
their own populations.
As  we  have  seen,  capitalism  is  deadly  for  peace. 
In  the  past  five  centuries  of  the  capitalist  model’s 
expansion,  lethal  violence  has  claimed  ever  more 
victims  and  significantly  worsened  inequalities.  Its 
greatest contradiction is demonstrated by the fact that 
today  the  world  produces  enough  to  sustain  every 
person  on  the  planet;  but  that  wealth  ends  up  in  just 
a few hands, and poverty is now concentrated mainly 
in  the  countries  of  the  South  and  within  those  of  the 
centre.  The  gap  between  rich  and  poor  has  therefore 
grown disproportionately. The case of the United States 
is  compelling;  between  1942  and  2010  the  gap  there 
16-29679
17/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
tripled. To give an example, in 1978, the annual earnings 
of an average member of the working class and a top 
executive were $48,000 and $393,000, respectively. in 
2010, that average worker made $33,000, while a senior 
executive was paid more than $1.1 million.
According  to  Oxfam,  1  per  cent  of  the  world’s 
inhabitants owns the same amount of wealth as 90 per 
cent  of  the  rest.  But  the  most  significant  part  is  that 
this figure is not uniform around the world. It is worse 
in  developing  countries  and  in  some  sectors  even 
worse  that  that,  where  the  chasm  between  those  who 
are squandering the world’s wealth and those who are 
dying  of  hunger  is  tragic.  Concentrated  capital  has 
been turned into unproductive and speculative wealth 
that has a pernicious effect on economic sectors such 
as  communications,  energy,  banking  and  investment, 
among others. It has become a way of increasing wealth 
without  producing  anything.  It  is  a  model  based  on 
violence, where peace has become a distant dream for 
humankind. To see that, we have only to consider the 
conflicts that are currently the worst threats to global 
peace and stability.
The question of Palestine is an ongoing issue for the 
whole of humankind. The daily lives of the Palestinian 
people, as they try to resist dreadful violence, are marked 
by war crimes and massive human rights violations. To 
give  just  one  example,  in  2000  the  illegal  occupation 
resulted in enormous setbacks to human development, 
with  a  poverty  rate  that  went  from  20  to  55  per  cent 
in  only  three  years.  That  figure  has  now  worsened. 
We do not have the time needed to detail the numbers 
and types of violations of human rights that are being 
committed hourly against the Palestinian people.
Venezuela  supports  Palestine’s  right  of  self-
determination  as  a  free,  sovereign  and  independent 
State,  and  we  therefore  believe  that  the  Organization 
must  take  the  decision  as  soon  as  possible  to  admit 
it  to  the  United  Nations  as  a  full-fledged  State.  We 
support the establishment of a State of Palestine within 
secure,  internationally  recognized  pre-1967  borders, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital. We call on Israel to 
end  its  protracted  occupation  of  territories  belonging 
to  the  State  of  Palestine.  The  Israeli  occupation  of 
those territories and its related policies are the leading 
cause  of  violations  of  Palestinians’  human  rights  and 
of international humanitarian law. Venezuela also calls 
for the definitive lifting of the illegal blockade that has 
been  imposed  on  the  Gaza  Strip  since  2007  and  is  a 
flagrant violation of the people’s human rights. There 
will be no peace in the Middle East if Israel continues 
to  deny  the  Palestinian  people  their  human  rights, 
including their right to self-determination.
With  respect  to  Iraq,  the  rationale  for  the  second 
invasion of the country, in 2003, had as its starting point 
a truth that, not only was not verified at the time but, 
years  later,  was  acknowledged  by  the  main  invaders 
to be a lie. That military invasion was preceded by an 
effective  propaganda  campaign  focused  on  four  main 
areas. None of the arguments was true. The weapons of 
mass destruction that led to the invasion of Iraq never 
existed. What is traditionally referred to as intelligence 
became war propaganda. The large media corporations, 
acting  like  veritable  monopolies  for  moulding  public 
opinion,  developed  genuine  campaigns  that  preceded 
and justified the imperialist interventions.
With respect to Libya, in 2011, the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization carried out a military intervention, 
plunging  the  nation  into  violence,  making  it  a  victim 
of  terrorist  groups,  reducing  its  human  development 
index and disrupting its cooperation mechanisms with 
other neighbouring countries of Mother Africa. In the 
past,  Libya  maintained  oil-production  levels  close  to 
1.6 million barrels per day. In August 2016, production 
hardly reached 260,000 barrels per day. Yet again, the 
imperialist  obstinacy  of  the  Western  Powers  curtails 
the right to development of peoples, the right to peace 
and the right to a homeland. Migration flows of Libyan 
citizens seeking a better future beyond its borders have 
also affected poverty levels in developed countries. The 
serious  humanitarian  situations  in  Afghanistan  and 
Yemen also deserve equal mention.
On another note, the Syrian Arab Republic is waging 
a full-fledged war against the barbarism of the terrorism 
plaguing the country. The Syrian people are the primary 
victims of the violence perpetrated by terrorist groups, 
which  are  committing  war  crimes  through  the  use  of 
chemical weapons. Terrorism in Syria has caused one 
of the largest humanitarian tragedies in recent decades, 
which  has  resulted  in  6  million  internally  displaced 
persons  and  4.8  million  refugees  fleeing  widespread 
violence to save their lives, regardless of the risks they 
face. The dramatic images of men, women and children 
trying  to  cross  the  Mediterranean  reflect  the  gravity 
of  the  armed  conflict  in  this  Arab  country  caused  by 
terrorist  groups  and  violent  opposition.  Overcoming 
the  humanitarian  tragedy  of  13.5  million  Syrian 
citizens  depends  on  terrorism  being  vanquished  and 
a political and peaceful solution to the armed conflict 
18/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
that respects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of 
that brother country.
By  contrast,  Venezuela  welcomes  the  renewal  of 
diplomatic relations between the United States and our 
sister Republic of Cuba as the only way to overcome and 
resolve the differences between the States. For decades, 
the  Cuban  people  have  resisted,  with  dignity  and 
heroism, the ravages of State terrorism from the North 
whose  aim  it  was  to  attack  its  development,  political, 
social and cultural models. The Cuban people continue 
to  be  subjected  to  a  criminal  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  blockade.  Venezuela  demands  that  the 
United  States  put  an  end  to  the  blockade  and  offer 
compensation  for  the  damage  caused  by  such  illegal 
and arrogant actions.
The  United  Nations  system 
is  facing  major 
challenges.  Sixteen  years  ago,  at  the  Millennium 
Summit,  President  Hugo  Chávez  Frías  said  that  the 
United Nations could not find its way with a map that 
was  drawn  in  the  historic  moment  following  the  end 
of  the  Second  World  War  in  1945  (see  A/55/PV.8).  In 
order  to  successfully  address  the  complex  challenges 
in  the  areas  of  peace,  stability  and  humankind’s 
economic  and  social  development,  it  is  vital  for  the 
Organization  to  be  renewed  and  strengthened,  and 
that will be achieved by reforming its principal bodies. 
In that regard, we call for a comprehensive reform of 
the  Security  Council.  In  addition  to  other  reforms  to 
be  undertaken  within  the  Council  itself,  the  Council 
should  include  developing  countries  in  Africa,  Latin 
America and the Caribbean and Asia. As the General 
Assembly  is  the  democratic  and  universal  body  par 
excellence of the Organization, our country reaffirms 
its position in favour of strengthening the authority of 
the  Assembly  in  the  various  areas  conferred  to  it  by 
the Charter of the United Nations, namely, peace and 
security,  economic  and  social  development,  human 
rights and international cooperation.
By  contrast,  approaches 
relying  on  double 
standards  and  the  political  use  of  human  rights  to 
justify  interventionism  in  our  countries  in  order  to 
serve  imperialist  interests  seriously  undermine  the 
Organization’s institutions, making it a real challenge 
to  safeguard  and  protect  the  human  rights  of  peoples 
and  not  just  individual  rights  and  those  of  the  global 
elites.  It  is  urgent  for  the  United  Nations  system  to 
take  measures  against  global  Powers  that,  regardless 
of  the  rules  and  international  law,  mount  attacks  on 
Governments that express the will of their people.
The  soon-to-be-elected  new  Secretary-General 
will  face  major  challenges  and  so  too  will  free  and 
sovereign  countries  whose  main  responsibility  is  to 
work  together  towards  a  noble  and  imperious  end. 
Venezuela thanks Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for 
his efforts to promote international peace and security. 
It  must  be  acknowledged  that  the  United  Nations  has 
made  great  contributions  to  humankind.  Its  intrinsic 
purposes of peace and security are founded on a strong 
multilateral  system  that  sets  the  international  rule  of 
law by regulating relations among States. We join in the 
efforts to preserve the rule of law and advance towards 
a better system.
Just  days  ago, 
in  Margarita,  we  hosted 
the 
seventeenth Summit of Heads of State and Government 
of the Non-Aligned Movement. Venezuela chaired that 
important group of countries, with which we share the 
same concerns. We made significant progress and we 
remain committed to peace, development, solidarity and 
the welfare of our people, within the framework of the 
Bandung Principles on which our group was founded. 
In 1946, Albert Einstein asserted, “I firmly believe that 
the majority of peoples in the world would prefer to live 
in peace and security”. Humankind’s desire for peace 
can be possible only by creating a global Government, 
to  which  the  peoples  of  the  South,  who  account  for 
two  thirds  of  the  Members  of  the  Organization,  are 
firmly committed.
It should be noted that during the course of today’s 
meeting,  a  United  States  plane  violated  Venezuelan 
airspace. This same day, United States aircraft attacked 
the  Syrian  national  army,  killing  dozens  of  Syrians 
and  wounding  hundreds  more.  In  that  same  time 
period, India was the victim of a terrorist attack, and 
the Palestinian people suffered violent attacks that left 
some of its citizens dead. As the Assembly can see, the 
peoples  of  the  South,  who  possess  the  largest  energy, 
mining,  gas  and  water  reserves  on  the  planet,  are  the 
main victims of imperialist violence and aggression.
Over a year ago, the President of the United States, 
Mr. Barack Hussein Obama, issued an executive order 
describing Venezuela as a threat to the national security 
and foreign policy of the United States. That executive 
order was rejected by most countries around the world. 
In addition, extreme and violent groups are supported 
and encouraged by the United States to sow the seeds of 
death in Venezuela by overthrowing the constitutional 
Government  of  President  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros  and 
employing  multifaceted  economic  aggression  and 
16-29679
19/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
the 
international  community 
sophisticated  methods  to  discredit  and  weaken  the 
country and incite a media, trade and financial boycott. 
It is nothing that has not already been experienced in 
the  past  in  our  region,  when  our  President  Salvador 
Allende suffered the same attacks from the imperialist 
United States.
We  warn 
that 
Venezuela has been chosen as a new imperialist target 
in order to undermine its sovereignty and bring about its 
territorial disintegration, with a view to illegitimately 
and  violently  seizing  the  immense,  strategic  natural 
resources  we  possess.  Imperialist  history,  replete 
with  violence,  is  expected  to  be  repeated  —  a  major 
campaign  of  lies  and  fallacies  is  under  way  against 
Venezuela, its people and its Government. That agenda 
of  aggression  makes  it  an  unconventional  war  aimed 
at criminalizing and penalizing our development model 
founded on the basis of twenty-first-century socialism 
that  is  profoundly  inclusive,  distributes  wealth  to  the 
majority and is based on equality.
Our continent has had very rocky relationships with 
the United States, which in service of its expansionism 
and imperial domination, subjugated and invaded many 
of our countries. Those dark pages of colonialism and 
subjugation  have  been  overcome  by  the  decision  of 
our peoples to be free and independent. Nevertheless, 
new  war  drums  are  rumbling  in  the  North,  which 
aspires  to  revisiting  and  traversing  the  rocky  roads 
our  America  has  already  travelled.  We  condemn  the 
parliamentary  judicial  coup  d’état  in  Brazil,  and  we 
reject the implementation of a new Operation Condor in 
our region, controlled from Washington. I would note 
that Venezuela is criticized for having one of the most 
equitable wealth distributions in Latin America, with a 
Gini coefficient of 0.38.
In  2005,  UNESCO  declared  our  country  free  of 
illiteracy.  Today,  our  school  enrolment,  according  to 
UNESCO,  stands  at  77  per  cent  for  children  ages  3 
to 6, 96 per cent for ages 6 to 12, and 76 per cent for 
ages 12 to 18. We have 2.6 million students in higher 
education,  placing  us  among  the  leading  countries 
in  the  world  in  this  regard.  In  2012,  the  Food  and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) 
singled out Venezuela for its social policies to reduce 
hunger and poverty by over 50 per cent throughout its 
national territory. In 2015, the FAO once again praised 
the Government of President Nicolás Maduro Moros for 
the exceptional progress made in reducing hunger and 
poverty.
In our country, our free health-care plan is available 
to  75  per  cent  of  the  population,  and  will  soon  reach 
100  per  cent,  thanks  to  a  joint  programme  with  our 
Cuban  brothers.  Our  social-housing  programme  has 
benefitted 1,111,095 families. We have placed particular 
emphasis on protecting retired persons and the elderly. 
In  17  years,  over  3  million  persons  in  that  age  group 
have benefited from this programme.
We offer hope to the vast majority of people who 
are  victims  of  a  ruthless  model  of  humanity.  From 
Venezuela, we seek true peace among all peoples and 
the  establishment  of  a  new  economic,  cultural  and 
communication model in service of peace, development 
and equality. We are developing partnerships through 
innovative  mechanisms  such  as 
the  Bolivarian 
Alternative  for  the  Peoples  of  Our  America  and  the 
PetroCaribe  Energy  Cooperation  Agreement,  which 
benefit the peoples of our region.
We also support the efforts of Brazil, Russia, India, 
China  and  South  Africa  towards  the  establishment  of 
a  multipolar,  multicentric  world.  From  Venezuela, 
we  wage  permanent  war  on  the  capitalist  system  that 
perpetuates  poverty,  violence  and  unhappiness.  We 
echo the words of our liberator, Simón Bolívar, when 
we say that the most perfect system of Government is 
one which produces the greatest sum happiness, social 
security and political stability.
Let  us  give  the  world  the  greatest  possible  sum 
happiness,  social  security  and  political  stability.  The 
time  for  peace  with  social  justice  is  upon  us.  Let  us 
change the system and become true militants for peace.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Political Vice-President 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela  for  the  statement  she  has 
just made.
Ms.  Delcy  Eloina  Rodriguez  Gómez,  Political 
Vice-President and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum. 
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Abdulaziz Kamilov, Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Mr. Kamilov (Uzbekistan): I would like to begin 
my  speech  by  conveying  my  deep  gratitude  to  the 
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon, and to all heads of State and Government who 
20/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
have sent their condolences to the Uzbek people on the 
occasion of the untimely passing of the first President 
of the independent Uzbekistan, Islam Karimov. Under 
his leadership, Uzbekistan embarked upon the path of 
confident independent development and was recognized 
as  a  sovereign  State  and  full-fledged  Member  of  the 
United Nations.
the  consequences  of 
The President of Uzbekistan spoke from this high 
rostrum many times. In this very Hall, he announced a 
number  of  important  international  political  initiatives 
aimed  at  establishing  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone 
in  Central  Asia,  promoting  peace  in  Afghanistan, 
overcoming 
the  Aral  Sea 
ecological  disaster  and  bolstering  the  effectiveness 
of  international  cooperation  in  the  struggle  against 
international terrorism, extremism and drug trafficking. 
All  of  those  proposals,  put  forward  by  the  leader  of 
Uzbekistan, were fully supported by the international 
community and, today, are making a tangible practical 
contribution to ensuring common peace, stability and 
sustainable development.
In  the  25  years  under  Karimov’s  leadership, 
Uzbekistan  became  a  modern  and  dynamically 
developing  State.  As  Acting  President  of  Uzbekistan 
Shavkat  Mirziyoev  underscored  at  a  recent  session  of 
our Parliament, in the years following its independence 
Uzbekistan’s economy grew by a factor of six. The real 
income  per  capita  rose  by  a  factor  of  nine.  Over  the 
last 11 years, gross domestic product growth rates have 
remained above 8 per cent. According to estimates, this 
year’s growth rates will continue the same trend. As the 
Secretary-General acknowledged in his congratulatory 
message  on  the  occasion  of  Uzbekistan’s  twenty-fifth 
jubilee  anniversary  of  independence,  our  country  has 
made  steady  progress  in  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals.
I  would  now  like  to  briefly  touch  upon  some 
important issues.
First of all, Uzbekistan will maintain its consistent 
foreign policy aimed at the protection and advancement 
of the country’s fundamental interests. Its foreign policy 
is grounded in a firm commitment to the fundamental 
principles  of  international  law  as  enshrined  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations and in the Constitution 
of  the  Republic  of  Uzbekistan,  as  well  as  in  all 
international legal instruments to which Uzbekistan is 
a signatory. As Acting President Mirziyoev has stated, 
Uzbekistan  will  continue  to  promote  friendships  and 
constructive cooperation with all foreign countries, on 
the basis of the principles of mutual respect, equality 
and interests.
Uzbekistan is a firm believer in not interfering in the 
internal affairs of other States and addressing emerging 
tensions  and  conflict  only  through  peaceful  and 
political means. Our country has made the principled 
and  unambiguous  choice  not  to  join  any  military-
political blocs or alliances, not to allow the stationing 
of foreign military bases on its territory and not to send 
our servicemen beyond the country’s borders.
Secondly, Afghanistan was and continues to be one 
of the main threats to international security and stability. 
Regrettably, we see little hope for the resolution of that 
country’s  accumulated  contradictions  any  time  soon. 
The settlement of the Afghan conflict will be possible 
only if it is based on an intra-Afghan national accord 
and  attained  through  peaceful  political  negotiations 
among  the  major  hostile  groups,  under  the  auspices 
of the United Nations, and, very importantly, without 
any  preliminary  conditions.  This  is  important  so  that 
the  donor  countries  and  international  institutions  can 
commit to allocating assistance to Afghanistan aimed 
at real socioeconomic improvement and the raising of 
living standards of the population. Above all, assistance 
must be channelled to education and learning.
Peace  in  Afghanistan  will  bring  tangible  benefits 
to all countries of the Eurasian continent. Sustainable 
peace  and  stability  in  Afghanistan  will  stimulate 
the  construction  of  motorways  and  railroads,  the 
development  of  regional  and  transregional  commerce 
and  the  establishment  of  numerous  pipelines  going 
in  all  directions.  In  that  regard,  the  international 
community  should  start  seeing  Afghanistan,  not  as  a 
source  of  regional  problems,  threats  and  challenges, 
but rather as a unique strategic opportunity that ends 
the status quo once and for all and establishes the basis 
for multilateral relations that will allow us to attain our 
goals of prosperity and well-being for all.
Thirdly,  the  protection  and  preservation  of  the 
environment  has  a  central  place  in  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  for  the  period  between  2016  and 
2030,  as  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  last  year. 
The  tragedy  of  the  Aral  Sea  is  a  vivid  example.  The 
significant  ecological,  climatic,  socioeconomic  and 
humanitarian  consequences  of  the  tragedy  have  been 
a  direct  threat  to  the  sustainable  development  of  the 
region  and  to  the  health,  gene  pool  and  future  of  the 
16-29679
21/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
people residing there. The most important task today is 
to preserve the natural biological diversity of the Aral 
Sea  region,  reduce  the  environmental  impacts  of  the 
Aral Sea tragedy, and, most importantly, preserve the 
many vital activities that allow millions of people in the 
region to survive.
Fourthly, the Republic of Uzbekistan supports the 
strengthening  of  the  entire  United  Nations  system. 
We  must  reinforce  its  structures’  role  in  addressing 
regional  and 
international  security  problems  and 
ensuring sustainable development. For some time now, 
Uzbekistan  has  supported  institutional  reform  at  the 
United Nations to ensure efficiency in its work and a 
better functioning in the way its principal bodies — the 
General  Assembly  and  Security  Council  —  interact. 
Furthermore, the General Assembly must preserve its 
central  role  as  a  major  advisory,  policymaking  and 
representative body, while the Security Council must be 
reformed step by step, including through its expansion.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Guillaume Long, Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
Human Mobility of the Republic of Ecuador.
Mr.  Long  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  bring 
greetings from President Rafael Correa and an embrace 
from  the  people  of  Ecuador  to  all  sister  nations  of 
our  United  Nations.  The  past  decade  of  the  citizens’ 
revolution  in  Ecuador  has  shown  us  that  to  achieve 
development  we  must  do  everything  opposite  to  the 
prescription that the neoliberal hegemony has given us 
in the past few years.
into 
In  the  past  decade  of  our  own  sovereign  drafting 
of  the  Ecuadorian  social  contract,  we  have  managed 
to  restore  faith  and  hope  in  a  country  that  had  been 
devastated.  We  have  found  that  this  hope  can  be 
translated 
tangible  results  for  our  peoples, 
through  the  reduction  of  poverty  and  inequality,  the 
redistribution  of  the  fruits  of  economic  growth,  job 
creation,  unprecedented  access  to  public  services  and 
the guarantee of rights, free education and health care. 
We  have  recovered  a  demoralized  country,  which, 
after  going  through  seven  presidents  in  10  years,  a 
banking  crisis  created  by  our  elites,  who  expelled 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  migrants  from  our  country, 
the loss of sovereignty and the implantation of foreign 
military bases in our territory, opted to found a vibrant 
democracy and sovereign republic in the global system.
To  do  so,  we  had  to  break  with  the  paradigms  of 
a neoliberal ideological fundamentalism. Power is not 
only military and financial; it is above all the dominion 
of  ideas.  Power  is  hegemonic  when  it  has  the  ability 
to generate consensus and common understandings and 
explain our history and our environment. To do this, the 
hegemonic Powers have appropriated words that we all 
use and imbued them with meaning in order to impose a 
political and moral agenda upon the planet. That is why, 
from the South, from the periphery, we must challenge 
the  meaning  of  the  major  concepts  that  are  often 
bandied about in this General Assembly. We must, for 
example,  challenge  the  concept  of  “development”.  To 
ensure that we are all following the same prescription 
they  have  tried  to  convince  us  that  development  is  a 
technical issue, when it is primarily a political problem.
In Latin America, the most unequal region in the 
world, there can be no genuine sustainable development, 
social  cohesion  and  political 
stability  without 
redistribution.  And  that  redistribution  often  means 
conflict  with  elites,  who  have  historically  opposed 
and  continue  to  oppose  relinquishing  an  iota  of  their 
power. It is no coincidence that Latin America — which 
I insist is the most unequal region of the world — has, 
for example, an average tax rate of 20 per cent of gross 
domestic product (GDP), when industrialized countries 
have  rates  of  30  per  cent,  40  per  cent  or  50  per  cent 
of  GDP  while  the  average  rate  for  countries  of  the 
European Union is 39 per cent. But any rise in the tax 
rate  to  ensure  that  Latin  American  States  can  deliver 
rights,  redistribute  wealth  or  stimulate  the  economy, 
is resisted by our elites who mobilize all the resources 
at their disposal, including through the private media, 
the  most  powerful  tool  to  maintain  the  status  quo 
and  destabilize  Governments  that  dare  to  challenge 
their interests.
To achieve development, we have to break with the 
primary  exporter  model  of  capital  accumulation.  We 
must  diversify  our  economies,  change  our  production 
model  and  move  away  from  an  excessive  dependence 
on  raw  materials.  This  idle  profiteering,  which  is 
often based on cheap labour and unstable work and the 
bounties of nature rather than the innovative capacity 
of  our  people,  means  that  our  elites  also  oppose  any 
deep-rooted  productive  transformations  to  achieve 
development.
fact, 
that  have  achieved 
development  —  in  both  the  nineteenth  and  twentieth 
centuries, in North America and in Europe, and more 
recently in East Asia — used aggressive protectionist 
means to build their nascent industries, with an active 
In 
the  countries 
22/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
regulatory  and  planning  role  for  the  State,  with  a 
disrespect  for  intellectual  property  that  would  make 
us blush today. But here is the irony: when those same 
countries  achieved  their  development  —  as  soon  as 
they  achieved  a  position  of  dominance  with  respect 
to  productivity  and  competitiveness  of  their  new 
industries  —  they  joined  the  ahistorical  narrative  of 
development that I just mentioned.
they would agree with prohibiting all public servants, 
including  those  who  were  popularly  elected,  from 
holding capital and assets in tax havens. We are proud 
to present our ethical pact to the world. We are hoping 
that  it  would  be  an  example  of  one  way  of  fighting 
against  global  plutocracy,  speculative  capitalism  and 
faceless,  nameless,  amoral,  unethical  capital  that  is 
hidden in order to avoid responsibility.
Friends of the global South, if we are to diversify 
our  economies  and  change  our  models  of  production, 
let us do what they did and not what the countries that 
achieved development are telling us we must do. First 
and  foremost,  development  is  a  political  issue.  One 
good example of that is the problem of tax evasion and 
tax havens. It is estimated that in the case of Ecuador an 
amount equivalent to 30 per cent of our gross domestic 
product — that is to say, one third of our economy — is 
being hidden — that is the precise word — in tax havens. 
Imagine  the  dynamic  economic  progress  that  could 
be  made,  how  much  poverty  and  inequality  could  be 
reduced, if that money had been invested in our country 
and if taxes had been paid.
We are now dealing with the challenge of rebuilding 
the  zones  of  our  country  that  suffered  a  terrible 
earthquake last April. The Economic Commission for 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  calculates  that  the 
cost of reconstruction will be at least $3.3 billion, which 
means we have to make huge efforts and sacrifices for 
our country. But then there are the $30 billion hidden 
in tax havens.
But to put an end to such tax havens and to have 
critical resources for our development, we have to wage 
a  political  battle.  It  is  good  that  some  countries  are 
committed to cooperation in the interest of development 
but there still is not one drop of assistance in an ocean 
of  injustices,  including  financial,  banking  and  tax 
practices  that  undermine  our  right  to  development. 
And then there are the practices by the same States to 
offset the phenomenon of capital flight resulting from 
banking secrecy and the low-to-zero tax rates with new, 
absolutely negligible cooperation.
Ecuador reiterates its call for the establishment of 
an intergovernmental body within the United Nations 
for  tax  justice  —  a  democratic  institutional  structure 
that puts an end to the shameful practice of tax havens 
in  the  twenty-first  century.  Ecuador  has  taken  the 
revolutionary  decision  to  conduct  a  referendum  in 
February  2017  to  consult  with  our  people  whether 
Another  concept  that  is  often  manipulated  for 
absolutely  political  purposes  is  that  of  human  rights. 
Absolutely all political action in our Citizens’ Revolution 
has been thought through from the perspective of human 
rights. Our Constitution is one of the most advanced in 
the  world  with  respect  to  guaranteeing  human  rights, 
and it is the first Constitution to guarantee the rights 
of nature. Our Constitution establishes human rights as 
comprehensive and multidimensional, which means that 
importance is given to all rights — civil and political 
rights, of course, but also economic and social rights.
We believe that one cannot speak of guaranteeing 
human  rights,  especially  in  the  context  of  Latin 
America,  without  speaking  about  the  reduction  of 
poverty and inequality. It is for that reason that we are 
one of the countries that has done the most to reduce 
poverty throughout the world, with a historic reduction 
by half of extreme poverty from 17 per cent in 2007 to 
8.5 per cent in 2015. Poverty was reduced by one third 
from  36.7  per  cent  in  2007  to  23.3  per  cent  in  2015. 
Similarly, it is a point of pride that Ecuador is one the 
countries that have done the most to reduce inequality, 
which has been a huge scourge in Latin America. To be 
exact,  our  Gini  coefficient  fell  by  six  points  between 
2007 and 2013. That also shows how we respect human 
rights.
Ecuador continues to push for peace. We do not have 
weapons  of  mass  destruction.  We  are  not  at  war  with 
any country and we are not bombing anyone. Let us see 
to the immediate entry into force of the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
It is also important that we leave behind the vision 
that sees the State as the sole violator of human rights. Of 
course, States can violate human rights, but other actors 
can  do  so,  too,  especially  transnational  corporations. 
Ecuador  has  experience  with  such  violations.  The  oil 
company Chevron Texaco contaminated our rivers and 
forests in our region of Amazonía, causing disease and 
death  for  our  people  and  doing  great  damage  to  the 
Amazon jungle. The Chevron Texaco oil spill was 85 
16-29679
23/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
times bigger than the British Petroleum spill in the Gulf 
of Mexico in 2010 and 18 times bigger than the Exxon 
Valdez  spill  in  Alaska  in  1989.  The  difference  is  that 
the spill in Ecuador was not accidental, but rather a bid 
to make oil at a cheaper cost.
Ecuador  is  not  the  only  country  to  have  suffered 
such abuse. Transnational corporations cannot continue 
to  operate  without  sufficient  checks  and  balances  in 
order  to  limit,  regulate  and  supervise  their  activity 
with a view to the general interest of most of the people 
that  inhabit  the  planet.  We  reiterate  our  plea  for  the 
adoption of a legally binding international instrument 
on 
transnational  corporations  and  human  rights. 
We  are  grateful  for  the  trust  in  Ecuador  expressed 
by  States  by  appointing  us  to  chair  the  open-ended 
intergovernmental working group to draft such a treaty.
At the twenty-first session of the Conference of the 
Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change, which took place in Paris, my country 
proposed the creation of an international environmental 
justice court to punish violations of the rights of nature 
and  establish  obligations  in  terms  of  ecological  debt 
and consumption of environmental goods. We live in a 
world where there are courts to punish countries when 
they  allegedly  endanger  or  imperil  the  investments 
of  major  transnational  corporations  but  there  are  no 
courts to punish those that unscrupulously degrade our 
environment. That paradox is so decisive and telling of 
the world in which we live, where supremacy belongs 
to capital over human beings. We claim the supremacy 
of human beings over capital.
It is imperative that, after decades of discussion, we 
accelerate  the  democratization  of  the  United  Nations. 
In  particular,  we  must  strike  a  new  balance  between 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  with 
a  view  to  increasing  votes  and  decreasing  vetoes.  In 
that  regard,  it  is  urgent  that  we  change  the  Council’s 
composition, working methods and competencies, and 
limit  its  prerogatives.  The  use  of  the  veto,  exclusive 
privilege of the victors of the Second World War, which 
account  for  70  per  cent  of  the  global  arms  trade,  no 
longer  ensures  the  ultimate  objective  of  maintaining 
international peace and security. We must set a deadline 
to conclude negotiations on United Nations reform.
number of countries have the clout to make the decisions 
that affect countries around the world. From the Group 
of 77, which Ecuador will have the honour of presiding 
over  next  year,  let  us  demand  more  democracy  and 
more  equality  among  States.  Let  us  leave  behind  the 
global  order  that  preceded  the  great  decolonization 
of the second half of the twentieth century, and let us 
do  away  with  the  model  of  first-,  second-  and  third-
class countries.
Our  liberator,  Simón  Bolívar,  who  said  that  the 
unity of our peoples is not a mere illusion of men, but 
an  inexorable  decree  of  destiny,  would  be  proud  to 
see us make bold strides in uniting the peoples of the 
South, and would celebrate Ecuador’s active role in the 
fight  to  emancipate  our  peoples.  We  have  made  great 
progress in recent years in consolidating the progress 
and sovereignty of our nation within the global system, 
but there is still much left to be done. Regrettably, our 
America continues to be the victim of antiquated foreign 
interventionism and domestic reactionary attacks that 
seek to prevent the democratization of our societies. We 
still  have  a  long  way  to  go  before  our  elites  learn  to 
recognize and respect universal suffrage and the votes 
of millions of people, in good times and in bad, whether 
or not it is in their interest. Let us stop playing games 
with democracy and the sacred mandate of our peoples!
I  would  be  remiss  if  I  did  not  acknowledge  our 
people  and  the  leadership  of  President  Correa,  a  man 
who has done so much in the interest of full development, 
justice  and  equality.  Ten  years  after  the  beginning  of 
the Citizens’ Revolution, we have replaced despair with 
hope,  and  we  have  shown  humankind  that  political 
action can build a world where human beings are not 
merely instruments for accumulating wealth but rather 
the very purpose of Government.
We  in  Quito  eagerly  await  one  and  all  for  the 
upcoming  United  Nations  Conference  on  Housing 
and  Sustainable  Urban  Development,  to  be  held  from 
17  to  20  October  2016,  where  it  will  be  our  honour 
to  host  all  of  our  guests  in  optimistic,  hospitable  and 
revolutionary Ecuador.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Elmar Maharram oglu Mammadyarov, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan.
Similarly,  we  must  reverse  the  diminution  of  the 
role  multilateralism  plays  in  global  governance.  We 
must  reflect  on  how  to  address  the  emerging  para-
institutionality, where a club of exclusive and restricted 
Mr. Mammadyarov (Azerbaijan): At the outset, I 
would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  on  his 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
at  its  seventy-first  session  and  to  wish  him  every 
24/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
success in discharging his important duties. We are also 
grateful to Mr. Mogens Lykketoft for all his hard work 
in presiding over the Assembly at its seventieth session.
A year ago we gathered here to witness the adoption 
of  a  comprehensive  and  people-centred  post-2015 
development  agenda.  There  are  milestones  in  history 
when  universal  values  are  translated  into  political 
commitments that change the course of events. We hope 
that  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  will  be  one  such  milestone.  When  we 
reached  an  agreement  on  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs),  we  drew  on  the  success  story  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  which  proved  to  be 
instrumental in promoting development worldwide.
Azerbaijan  has 
integrated  SDG 
targets 
fostering 
large-scale  programmes  on 
into 
its  national  development  strategy  and  continues  to 
implement 
improving 
good  governance, 
sustainable  growth, 
strengthening  the  rule  of  law,  ensuring  respect  for 
human  rights,  facilitating  access  to  public  services 
and  promoting  inclusive  societies.  Despite  the  global 
economic  crisis  and  the  sharp  decline  in  oil  prices, 
Azerbaijan  has  managed  to  maintain  its  economic 
growth.  Sustainable  economic  growth  has  enabled 
Azerbaijan not only to focus on its national development 
strategy,  but  also  to  actively  support  international 
development.  Azerbaijan  has  rendered  international 
humanitarian and development assistance to a number 
of  countries  through  the  Heydar  Aliyev  Foundation 
and the Azerbaijan International Development Agency 
under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
In  June,  Azerbaijan  was  elected  to  join  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  for  the  years  2017 
to  2019,  after  a  vote  at  the  General  Assembly  in 
which  176  of  184  Member  States  took  part.  Since  the 
Economic and Social Council is the central platform for 
professional deliberations on sustainable development, 
we will have yet another opportunity to contribute to 
international development.
To  advance  SDG  16,  Azerbaijan  drew  up  a  draft 
resolution  entitled  “Prevention  of  corruption  by 
promoting transparent, accountable and efficient public 
service delivery through the application of best practices 
and technological innovations”, which was unanimously 
adopted  at  the  sixth  session  of  the  Conference  of  the 
States Parties to the United Nations Convention against 
Corruption, held from 2 to 6 November 2015.
Against the background of the various threats and 
challenges facing the world nowadays, it is critical to 
consistently  promote  the  value  of  different  cultures, 
enhancing understanding among diverse communities 
and fostering mutual respect. Located between the two 
great  continents  of  Asia  and  Europe,  Azerbaijan  is  a 
unique  place,  where  East  and  West  meet,  where  the 
world’s main religions peacefully coexist and where the 
values and traditions of different cultures harmoniously 
complement  each  other.  It  is  no  coincidence  that  the 
seventh Global Forum of the United Nations Alliance 
of Civilizations was held this year in my country.
Unresolved  armed  conflicts,  terrorism,  violent 
extremism,  aggressive  separatism,  intolerance  and 
discrimination on ethnic and religious grounds continue 
to represent the most serious challenges to development 
and  are  some  of  its  most  persistent  obstacles.  The 
outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations  summit  at 
which the post-2015 development agenda was adopted 
states  that  there  can  be  no  sustainable  development 
without  peace  and  no  peace  without  sustainable 
development,  recalling  the  rights  and  obligations  of 
States  under  international  law  and  reaffirming  the 
need  to  respect  the  territorial  integrity  and  political 
independence of States.
Since  the  last  general  debate,  no  substantive 
progress has been made in the settlement of the Armenia-
Azerbaijan  conflict.  Armenia  continues  to  occupy 
Azerbaijani territory, including the Nagorno Karabakh 
region and seven adjacent districts, in flagrant violation 
of  international  law  and  Security  Council  resolutions 
853 (1993), 874 (1993) and 884 (1993). It is unfortunate 
that its engagement in the conflict-settlement process is 
nothing but a travesty.
Azerbaijan  does  not  have  access  to  the  economic 
potential  of  the  occupied  territory.  The  disruption 
of  communications  —  as  a  direct  consequence 
of  the  military  occupation  of  our  territory  —  is  a 
serious  obstacle  to  the  full-fledged  socioeconomic 
development  of  the  country  as  a  whole.  Further,  the 
region’s untapped prospects for economic development 
are going unfulfilled, particularly in terms of intra- and 
transregional connectivity.
The  humanitarian  consequences  of  the  conflict 
have  been  equally  grim,  which  makes  urgent 
solutions necessary. As a direct impact of the massive 
displacement of people from their places of origin, close 
to 1 million refugees and internally displaced persons 
16-29679
25/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
continue to be deprived of their basic human rights and 
fundamental freedoms, most notably the right to have 
access to their homes and property. Further continuation 
of this situation is intolerable.
civilian  infrastructure.  In  particular,  hundreds  of 
civilian  buildings,  among  them  residences,  schools, 
kindergartens,  cultural  centres  and  other  civilian 
facilities, were ruined.
Armenia’s  policy  and  practices  in  the  occupied 
territory  of  Azerbaijan  undermine  the  prospects  of 
achieving a political settlement of the conflict and pose 
an imminent threat to the peace, security and stability 
of the region. The Republic of Azerbaijan has made it 
clear on numerous occasions that the unlawful presence 
of Armenia’s armed forces in the occupied Azerbaijani 
territory  is  a  major  factor  in  destabilizing  the  region. 
It  has  the  potential  of  escalating  at  any  time,  with 
unpredictable  consequences.  It  is  also  the  main  cause 
of tensions and incidents in the conflict zone.
Instead of engaging in negotiations in good faith, 
Armenia  demonstrably  disrupts  any  attempt  to  settle 
the  conflict  by  peaceful  means.  In  total  disregard  of 
Security  Council  demands  and  in  flagrant  violation 
of  international  law,  Armenia  refuses  to  withdraw 
its  troops  from  Azerbaijan,  prevents  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  forcibly  displaced  Azerbaijanis  from 
returning to their homes and tries to further consolidate 
the  status  quo  by  altering  the  physical,  demographic 
and cultural character of the occupied territories — a 
worrying development that was confirmed by a number 
of fact-finding missions conducted by the Organization 
for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE). 
Furthermore,  Armenia  frequently  resorts  to  armed 
provocations in an attempt to divert attention from the 
core,  substantive  issues  of  the  peace  process,  trying, 
instead,  to  put  focus  on  the  technical  aspects  of  the 
ceasefire.
Recently, in early April 2016, Armenia conducted 
large-scale  attacks  against  the  civilian  population  of 
Azerbaijan.  It  subjected  densely  populated  areas  of 
Azerbaijan,  including  schools,  hospitals  and  places 
of  worship,  to  intensive  fire  from  heavy  artillery  and 
large-calibre  weapons.  As  a  result  of  these  reckless 
attacks, 
large  numbers  of  Azerbaijani  civilians, 
including children, women and the elderly, were killed 
or  seriously  wounded.  Had  effective  civil  defence 
measures  not  been  used  in  a  timely  manner,  the 
number  of  casualties  would  have  been  significantly 
higher.  Armenia  also  systematically  mutilated  the 
bodies  of  fallen  Azerbaijani  soldiers.  During  those 
attacks,  34  towns  and  villages  in  Azerbaijan  suffered 
severe  destruction.  Substantial  damage  was  inflicted 
upon  private  and  public  property,  including  critical 
Armenia’s direct and deliberate attacks against the 
Azerbaijani  civilian  population,  as  well  as  inhuman 
acts against Azerbaijani military servicemen during its 
offensive action in April, constitute yet another serious 
violation  of  international  humanitarian  and  human 
rights law. By its deliberate offensive actions, Armenia 
has  undermined  the  ceasefire  regime  established  in 
1994  and  endangered  the  prospects  for  the  political 
settlement of the conflict.
Having  received  an  effective  response  from 
Azerbaijan, Armenia was forced to request a ceasefire, 
which  was  agreed  pursuant  to  the  mediation  efforts 
of  the  Russian  Federation  on  5  April,  in  Moscow,  at 
the  meeting  of  the  chiefs  of  defence  of  Armenia  and 
Azerbaijan. Despite that agreement, Armenia continued 
to violate the ceasefire. After amassing forces in seized 
Azerbaijani  territory  and  building  heavily  reinforced 
military  fortifications,  on  19  September,  Armenia 
began  intensive  military  activity  in  the  occupied 
Aghdam  district.  Meanwhile,  Armenia  has  continued 
to  challenge  and  attempt  to  undermine  the  efforts  of 
the  international  community,  including  those  of  the 
co-Chair countries of the OSCE Minsk Group, namely, 
the United States, Russia and France, which have been 
aimed  at  achieving  a  breakthrough  in  the  peace  talks 
and withdrawing Armenia’s troops from the sovereign 
lands of Azerbaijan.
Armenia  must  realize  that  exploiting  the  status 
quo and armed provocations is a grave miscalculation. 
Its  hypocritical  attempts  to  mislead  the  international 
community  on  the  root  causes  of  the  conflict  by 
representing  themselves  as  the  suffering  party  is 
doomed to fail. Azerbaijan expects Armenia to halt its 
military build-up in the occupied territory and engage 
in negotiations with Azerbaijan in good faith, so as to 
find  a  long-overdue  political  solution  to  the  conflict. 
The  conflict  can  be  resolved  only  on  the  basis  of 
Azerbaijan’s sovereignty and territorial integrity within 
its  internationally  recognized  borders,  as  reflected, 
incidentally, in the resolutions of the Security Council. 
The sooner Armenia reconciles itself to this reality and 
withdraws its armed forces from the occupied territory 
of Azerbaijan, the earlier the conflict will be resolved. 
Armenia and its population will then benefit from the 
prospects  of  cooperation  and  economic  development. 
26/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
My  country  will  spare  no  effort  to  achieve  the 
settlement  of  the  conflict  and  ensuring  peace,  justice 
and development in the region.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Raymond Tshibanda N’tungamulongo, Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Mr.  Tshibanda  N’tungamulongo  (Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  I  take  the 
floor  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Kabila 
Kabange, President of the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo, whom I am honoured to represent. It is a true 
pleasure  to  join  previous  speakers  in  congratulating 
the  President  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session  and  to 
wish him and his Bureau full success in the execution of 
their mandate. I also address this well-deserved tribute 
to his predecessor, in the light of his tireless efforts that 
have so greatly served our Organization.
Motivated by the desire to achieve peace, security 
and  development  in  every  one  of  our  States  and 
throughout the world, in September of last year together 
we  adopted  a  new  global  development  agenda,  which 
we  intend  to  inspire  us  for  the  next  15  years.  It  was 
meant to overcome the challenges of underdevelopment 
and poverty and create a more just world with greater 
solidarity and stability, where equal opportunity would 
no longer be only a dream.
The theme for this general debate, “The Sustainable 
Development Goals: a universal push to transform our 
world”,  is  an  inarguable  opportunity.  It  allows  for  a 
first overall assessment of the focus of the new agenda 
so  that,  if  necessary,  we  can  adjust  the  path  forward 
in  order  to  guarantee  the  full  achievement  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs).  Taking  into 
consideration lessons learned from the efforts to achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo chose to integrate the SDGs into 
our national strategic development plan. It is based on 
a long-term view and a strategic framework to ensure 
that  our  policies  and  actions  align  with  the  issues  of 
climate change as well as the priorities of the African 
Union’s  Agenda  2063,  which  has  committed  us  to  a 
process  aimed  at  raising  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the Congo into the middle-income-country category by 
2021, the emerging-country category by 2030 and the 
developed-country category by 2050.
The  implementation  of  this  plan  will  take  the 
form  of  five-year  plans,  the  first  of  which  covers 
the  period  from  2017  to  2021.  In  this  first  five-year 
plan, priority will again be given to the improvement 
of  human  capital,  by  taking  on  the  problem  of  the 
demographic dividends that require strict collaboration 
among  various  stakeholders  in  development  at  both 
the  national  and  international  levels,  with  a  view  to 
ensuring  strong,  sustained  and,  above  all,  inclusive, 
economic  growth.  Particular  attention  is  therefore 
paid  to  the  specific  needs  of  youths  and  women  in 
terms  of  education,  job  training,  improvement  of 
their  scientific  and  technological  knowledge,  health 
and  employment.  Actions  stemming  from  this  option 
are  designed  to  jointly  implement  a  programme  for 
building  the  transportation  infrastructure  needed  to 
bring agricultural and mining products to market and 
stimulate the mobility of persons and goods.
Beyond that, there are many challenges, including 
that  of  strengthening  the  national  statistical  system 
and 
the  population  and  housing  census,  with  a 
view  to  having  reliable  updated  data  for  designing, 
monitoring  and  evaluating  development  programmes. 
In  the  case  of  my  country,  these  efforts  are  naturally 
linked  to  the  mobilization  of  funds,  in  particular  by 
easing  the  conditions  for  donors  and  diversifying 
financial resources.
With regard to the political situation, my country 
has  entered  into  a  crucial  phase  of  administrative 
decentralization in order to enable local management. 
Each of the 26 new provinces of my country currently 
have authorities that the population has freely chosen, 
following  the  elections  for  provincial  governors  and 
deputy governors of the province, which took place in 
March and April. This new democratic experience will 
continue when future elections are organized for local 
authorities in both urban and rural areas, to take place 
concurrently with the presidential, legislative, national 
and  provincial  elections.  The  Democratic  Republic  of 
the Congo has made an irreversible choice in ensuring 
that  access  to  State  power  is  possible  only  through 
the elections.
I  would  also  like  to  most  solemnly  reaffirm  that, 
despite  delays  in  registration  and  preparations,  the 
general elections initially slated for the end of this year 
will be organized by the Independent National Electoral 
Commission,  which  has,  under 
the  Constitution, 
exclusive jurisdiction over them. The elections will take 
place as planned, that is, as soon as technical conditions 
16-29679
27/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
permit. Many other challenges need to be overcome in 
order  to  allow  the  organization  of  free,  transparent, 
credible and peaceful elections. In order to come together 
and meet these challenges in a consensual manner, the 
presidential majority, the political opposition and civil 
society came together over a two-week period in order 
to  engage  in  an  inclusive  national  political  dialogue 
facilitated by the African Union with the assistance of 
an international support group.
The right to elect and be elected is a fundamental 
right  both  for  Congolese  citizens  who  live  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo and for those who 
live  abroad.  The  major  challenge  today  in  exercising 
that right is to ensure that we have inclusive and reliable 
voting registers. In that regard, I would like to welcome 
the  importance  of  the  voter  registration  process  that 
began on 31 July, which gives the possibility for people 
to run for office and to vote. It has included more than 
14 million Congolese, those who live in the country or 
abroad, representing one third of the electoral core, who 
could not have enjoyed this right without those reforms.
The  current  political  national  dialogue  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo and the process of 
peaceful resolution of disputes among Congolese with a 
view to organizing the elections and consolidating our 
democracy should benefit from everyone’s support, in 
particular of political actors who are not yet participating 
in  the  process,  but  who  are  encouraged  to  do  so.  On 
the  other  hand,  any  recourse  to  the  use  of  violence 
should  be  strongly  condemned  and  the  perpetrators 
punished,  and  any  invitation  to  any  insurrection  or 
other unconstitutional mode of access to power should 
be denounced.
The promotion of human rights has made progress 
in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  a  post-
conflict State that has had to face numerous challenges. 
Two  months  ago,  we  hosted  a  visit  from  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  in  the 
context of cooperation with his Office and the Human 
Rights Council. We are planning to pursue and deepen 
reforms in this area. That has certainly been the case 
with respect to the protection of women’s rights. Two 
important  laws  have  been  recently  enacted  —  one  on 
gender  equality  and  one  on  changing  the  outdated 
provisions of the family code, in order to align the law 
with international law in force. With regard to violence 
against  women,  we  have  seen  reliable  indicators  that 
have shown a net reduction of 50 per cent in cases of 
sexual violence from 2014 to 2015.
With  specific  regard  to  the  right  to  health  care, 
significant  progress  has  been  achieved  in  fighting 
HIV/AIDS  and  malaria.  However,  we  need  to  remain 
vigilant  with  regard  to  certain  cross-border  diseases 
that  had  been  eradicated  in  the  past,  namely,  yellow 
fever and cholera, of which we have recently seen some 
signs of resurgence.
The  mandate  of  the  United  Nations  Organization 
Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  (MONUSCO)  was  extended  to  31  March 
2017,  pursuant  to  resolution  2277  (2016),  in  order  to 
support  the  laudable  efforts  that  the  Forces  armées 
de  la  République  démocratique  du  Congo  have  been 
deploying  to  root  out  the  armed  groups  that  are  still 
resistant  to  peace.  While  welcoming  the  assistance, 
the  Government  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo notes that thanks to the security sector reform 
currently under way, the national defence and security 
forces  have  shown  greater  efficiency  and  competence 
in the execution of their mission to protect the national 
territory  and  provide  security  for  goods  and  persons. 
They  are  therefore  relying  on  the  strategic  dialogue 
with  the  United  Nations  to  achieve  a  progressive 
reduction  of  MONUSCO  personnel  and  a  subsequent 
transformation of the Mission.
Having informed the Assembly about the situation 
in my country, I would now like to express the vision of 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo on several major 
issues of concern in the world today.
rights 
Throughout  its  existence,  the  United  Nations  has 
made  numerous  important  achievements  and  attained 
success  in  the  areas  of  peace,  security,  international 
cooperation,  human 
socioeconomic 
development.  In  spite  of  these  results,  international 
peace  remains  an  ongoing  quest.  In  addition,  as  it 
operates  in  a  world  that  is  constantly  changing  and 
evolving, the United Nations is called upon to exercise 
its  specific  mandate  to  constantly  question  itself  and 
adapt in order to better confront the new challenges and 
threats that the world is facing.
and 
That is why reform of our international Organization 
and its methods and modes of operation is necessary. 
In  that  regard,  we  need  to  look  into  broadening  the 
membership  of  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council.  The  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  attaches  importance  to  that 
reform,  which,  in  order  to  be  viable,  must  take  the 
political and numerical weight of Africa in the General 
28/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
Assembly into account and allow that continent to fully 
take part in decisions that concern it, especially since two 
thirds of the situations reviewed in the Security Council 
concern  Africa.  To  that  end,  the  Ezulwini  Consensus 
remains  the  only  acceptable  basis  for  negotiation.  In 
the same context, it is important to also strengthen the 
decision-making  power  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to  promote  peace, 
social justice, democracy and development.
international  commercial  and 
financial 
architecture must also undergo profound transformations 
so that it can adapt to developments and changes on the 
international scene and so that the United Nations can 
be a source of hope for all. Moreover, our Organization 
should  promote  greater  transparency  and  democracy, 
particularly  in  selecting  the  next  Secretary-General, 
while  preserving  the  rules  and  practices  that  have 
proved  to  be  effective,  in  particular  the  regional 
rotation scheme.
The 
that  characterize 
The fight for peace is also a fight against terrorism. 
That  scourge  of  our  century  must  remain  one  of 
the  priorities  of  our  Organization.  For  my  country, 
terrorism is now the most serious threat to international 
peace and security. The despicable and indiscriminate 
acts 
that  phenomenon  demand 
international  solidarity  and  continuous  dialogue  in 
order  to  better  organize  our  response.  The  peoples 
living  in  the  eastern  part  of  my  country,  particularly 
in the region of Beni, have on more than one occasion 
become the innocent victims of terrorist violence. That 
is  why  we  reiterate  here  our  support  for  the  United 
Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, as well as 
our firm condemnation of the scourge of terrorism in 
all its forms and manifestations.
Our  planet 
is  confronting  an  unprecedented 
environmental challenge in the form of climate change, 
which has a direct negative impact on the quality of our 
lives and which mortgages the very future of humankind. 
That  is  why,  after  having  actively  participated  in  the 
negotiations and the conclusion of the Paris Agreement 
on  Climate  Change,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  through  the  intervention  of  its  Head  of  State, 
signed the Agreement on 22 April here in New York. 
Now we are finalizing the ratification process, which 
should be completed before the end of this year.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo welcomes 
another major advancement with regard to international 
governance, that is, the adoption of the final document 
of  the  recent  high-level  meeting  on  addressing  large 
movements  of  refugees  and  migrants,  namely,  the 
New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and  Migrants 
(resolution 71/1, annex). It is high time to put an end to 
the thousands of migrant deaths in the Mediterranean 
and  address  the  root  causes  of  those  displacements, 
which are mainly poverty, armed conflicts and the lack 
of resilience to disasters. We must make sure that we 
resolve those problems so that all citizens of the world, 
and in particular those in developing countries, can live 
happily and peacefully in their own countries. That is the 
very basic principle of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, that is, to leave no one behind.
I have focused my comments today on the launch 
by  the  Government  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  of  the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  from  the  beginning  of  2016  by 
determining  priority  actions,  while  noting  the  links 
between  its  goals  and  my  country’s  new  strategic 
development plan. I have also given a general overview 
of the political, electoral and human rights situation in 
my country, while mentioning the partnership between 
my Government and the United Nations Organization 
Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the Congo.
In  so  doing,  I  called  for  United  Nations  reform 
through the enlargement of the Security Council and the 
strengthening of the mandate of the General Assembly. 
I stressed that there is a need for international solidarity 
and ongoing consultations in order to better organize our 
common response to the fight against terrorism. I also 
recalled the huge importance of the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change and welcomed the adoption of the New 
York Declaration, which provides us with the strategy 
for managing the large-scale displacements of refugees 
and  migrants,  by  noting  the  need  to  tackle  the  root 
causes of those evils.
I will conclude my remarks by once again reiterating 
our  faith  in  multilateralism  and  expressing  the  hope 
to  see  everyone  uphold  and  promote  its  principles 
and  values    in  the  interest  of  international  peace  and 
for the good of humankind. I would like to salute and 
pay  tribute  to  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  whose  mandate  as 
Secretary-General  of  our  Organization  is  coming  to 
an end. We would like to thank him for his significant 
contributions  to  the  preservation  of  the  principles 
and  values  of  our  Organization  and  for  his  decisive 
contribution  to  re-establishing  peace  and  stability  in 
my country.
16-29679
29/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the general debate for this meeting.
The exercise of the right of reply has been requested 
by  several  delegations.  May  I  remind  members  that 
statements  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
Ms.  Sornarajah  (United  Kingdom):  The  United 
Kingdom wishes to exercise its right of reply in the light 
of comments made in the statement of His Excellency 
Sir  Anerood  Jugnauth,  Prime  Minister  of  Mauritius, 
in  the  debate  this  morning.  The  British  Government 
has  no  doubts  about  its  sovereignty  over  the  Chagos 
Archipelago, which it administers as the British Indian 
Ocean  Territory.  No  international  tribunal,  including 
the recent arbitral tribunal constituted under Annex 7 
to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 
has ever called the United Kingdom’s sovereignty of the 
territory  into  doubt.  While  the  United  Kingdom  does 
not  recognize  the  claim  of  the  Republic  of  Mauritius 
to  the  sovereignty  of  the  Chagos  Archipelago,  it  has 
repeatedly  undertaken  to  cede  the  Archipelago  to 
Mauritius,  once  it  no  longer  requires  those  islands 
for  defence  purposes.  We  maintain  that  commitment, 
although it is for the United Kingdom alone to determine 
when that condition is met.
In  the  meantime,  the  defence  purposes  referred 
to  contribute  significantly  towards  global  security 
and  are  central  to  efforts  to  counter  regional  threats, 
including  those  stemming  from  terrorism  and  piracy. 
We  do  not  consider  that  the  International  Court  of 
Justice is the appropriate way to resolve this matter. We 
have therefore asked the Government of Mauritius not 
to  continue  with  that  course  of  action  and  to  resolve 
those issues through the bilateral discussions that have 
been  ongoing.  We  will  continue  to  engage  bilaterally 
with Mauritius.
Mr. Pavlichenko (Ukraine): I am taking the floor 
in  order  to  exercise  the  right  of  reply  following  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the  Russian 
Federation earlier today. Because of the late hour, I will 
confine  myself  merely  to  the  following  fundamental 
points.
The situation in Ukraine referred to by the Russian 
delegation was caused by Russian imperial ambitions, 
particularly  by  the  Russian  aggression  against  my 
country, which started with the illegal occupation of the 
Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and subsequently by 
Russia fuelling the conflict in certain parts of Ukraine, 
the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Were it not for the 
constant  and  sustained  flow  of  weapons,  fighters  and 
regular Russian troops into Ukrainian territory, 10,000 
of  my  compatriots  would  not  have  been  killed  and 
20,000  injured.  The  lives  and  well-being  of  millions 
of  Ukrainian  citizens  would  not  have  been  adversely 
affected. In that regard, we have urged Russia time and 
again to restore respect for the norms of international 
law and the Charter of the United Nations, to hold back 
its  aggression  against  Ukraine  and  to  end  the  illegal 
occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and 
the city of Sevastopol.
In conclusion, in as much as the Russian Minister 
mentioned  George  Orwell’s  novel  Animal  Farm  in 
his statement, I would like to mention another one of 
Orwell’s novels, Nineteen Eighty-four, in particular the 
famous  quote,  “War  is  peace,  freedom  is  slavery  and 
ignorance is strength.” That is the exact philosophy that 
Russia wants to impose on its own people and on the 
rest of the world.
Mr.  Giacomelli  da  Silva  (Brazil)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  With  respect  to  the  statements  made  by  the 
representatives of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and 
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, we reiterate the 
words of our President, Michel Temer, on 20 September 
here in this Hall:
“Governments of different political inclinations 
coexist  in  our  region.  That  is  natural  and  sound. 
What is essential is that there be mutual respect and 
that we agree on basic common objectives, such as 
economic  growth,  human  rights,  social  progress, 
security and freedom for all citizens.” (A/71/PV.8).
Mr. Kazhoyan (Armenia): I am forced to exercise 
the  right  of  reply  in  response  to  the  statement  made 
by  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Azerbaijan, 
because, in listening to the falsifications presented by 
the Minister, I could not figure out whether it is due to 
the fact that the lies have been repeated so many times 
that the Azerbaijanis themselves have started to believe 
those lies.
Memories  are  so  short  that  the  Azerbaijanis  have 
totally  forgotten  the  fact  that  Nagorno  Karabakh 
never  was  part  of  Azerbaijan.  It  was  transferred  to 
Azerbaijan  in  1921  by  the  decision  of  the  Bolshevik 
party. The Republic of Azerbaijan of 1918-1920 did not 
include Nagorno Karabakh. Now that there is no longer 
30/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
any  Soviet  Union  any  longer,  Nagorno  Karabakh  is 
independent. Nagorno Karabakh was never, is not, and 
will never be part of Azerbaijan.
Azerbaijan cannot and will never have access to the 
economic potential of the independent State of Nagorno 
Karabakh.  Paraphrasing  the  words  of  the  Minister, 
the sooner Azerbaijan reconciles with that reality and 
stops killing peaceful civilians, the earlier the Nagorno 
Karabakh issue will be resolved. Moreover, in order to 
reconcile oneself to the fact that the war that Azerbaijan 
unleashed against the people of Nagorno Karabakh was 
lost a long time ago, one has to get over it. If one starts 
a  war  and  one  loses  the  war,  one  cannot  continue  to 
blame someone else.
intentional, 
indiscriminate 
Azerbaijan  cannot, 
it  seems,  stop  portraying 
everything  as  being 
topsy-turvy.  The  abhorrent 
barbarism  committed  against  Nagorno  Karabakh 
by  the  armed  forces  of  Azerbaijan  in  early  April, 
including 
targeting  of 
peaceful  civilians,  especially  children,  women  and 
the  elderly,  and  civilian  facilities,  including  schools 
and  kindergartens,  killings,  barbaric  beheadings, 
torture  and  the  mutilation  of  bodies  is  incompatible 
with the elementary norms of a civilized world. When 
beheadings  and  other  barbaric  acts  are  broadcast  on 
civilian media sources and the President of the country 
encourages  the  soldiers  who  have  committed  those 
barbaric acts, such actions must not be tolerated.
The  situation  is  a  direct  result  of  a  longstanding 
policy  of  racism,  intolerance  and  the  incitement  of 
hatred  against  Armenians,  condoned  and  directly 
executed  by  the  authorities  of  Azerbaijan.  The  grave 
and systematic violations of international humanitarian 
law  committed  by  Azerbaijan  and  the  glorification  at 
the highest political level of persons directly involved 
in  the  atrocities  and  mutilations  constitute  crimes 
against humanity and war crimes.
If Azerbaijan wishes to contest what I am saying, 
it  should  agree  to  the  proposal  of  the  Organization 
for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE) 
Minsk  Group  co-Chairs  regarding  the  mechanism  for 
investigating  ceasefire  violations.  The  Republic  of 
Armenia  and  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  Republic  have 
provided  their  agreement.  Azerbaijan  has  refused. 
Please tell me who has something to hide.
Azerbaijan  keeps  on  discussing  Azerbaijani 
refugees. What about the Armenian, Russian, Jewish, 
Greek, Assyrian, Kurdish and Yazidi people who became 
refugees as a result of the Azerbaijani aggression? Only 
those who were massacred in Sumgait, Baku, Ganja and 
other towns and villages in Azerbaijan did not become 
refugees. But massacres are not a solution. Believe me. 
The people were slaughtered by their own neighbours. 
The  sooner  Azerbaijan  reconciles  itself  to  the 
fact  that  Nagorno  Karabakh  is  independent  and  will 
never  be  part  of  Azerbaijan,  the  better.  The  right  of 
the people of Nagorno Karabakh to self-determination 
has  been  expressed  earlier.  Refugees  want  to  return 
to their original hometowns and residences, including 
the  Armenian  refugees  who  would  like  to  return  to 
Charentsavan,  Artashat  and  other  Armenian  regions 
that have been annexed by Azerbaijan as a result of its 
aggression.
Mr.  Mammadov  (Azerbaijan):  We  are  taking  the 
floor  to  counter  the  baseless  allegations  made  by  the 
Armenian representative. As all who are present know, 
the Republic of Armenia unleashed war and used and 
continues to use force against the territorial integrity of 
Azerbaijan, occupying almost one fifth of our territory, 
including  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  region  and  seven 
adjacent districts. 
Armenia  also  carried  out 
large-scale  ethnic 
cleaning in the seized areas by expelling about 1 million 
Azerbaijanis. The successive Governments of Armenia 
have  established  a  notorious  pattern  of  completely 
disregarding 
the  generally  accepted  norms  and 
principles of international law. Committing war crimes 
and  crimes  against  humanity,  sponsoring  terrorism, 
adhering  to  dubious  ethno-religious  ideologies  and 
raising  territorial  claims  against  all  of  its  neighbours 
have become part of the normal conduct of that Member 
State. In fact, it has been well established that Armenia 
has grossly violated international law. The armed forces 
of  Armenia  overran  the  town  of  Khojaly  in  February 
1992, which is situated in the Nagorno Karabakh region 
of  Azerbaijan,  and  subjected  the  civilian  population 
and its defenders to an unprecedented massacre.
The barbarism carried out by Armenia in Khojaly 
and  elsewhere  probably  created  a  prototype  for  the 
notorious  behaviour  of  the  Islamic  State  in  Syria  and 
the Levant. With its continued use of force against the 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  Azerbaijan, 
Armenia  has  flagrantly  violated  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. In addition, by expelling Azerbaijan’s 
civilian population and preventing their return to their 
16-29679
31/33
A/71/PV.19 
23/09/2016
homes,  Armenian  is  grossly  violating  basic  human 
rights and international humanitarian law.
We  would  like  to  refresh  the  memory  of  the 
Armenian  delegation  with  regard  to  Security  Council 
resolution 874 (1993), in which the Council reaffirmed 
that the Nagorno Karabakh region is part of Azerbaijan. 
Furthermore,  the  Security  Council  demanded  the 
immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal of 
the occupying forces from all of the occupied territory 
of  Azerbaijan.  Furthermore,  I  would  like  to  note  that 
the  Armenian  side  frequently  speculates  about  the 
Bolshevik  decision  of  the  early  1920s.  In  fact,  in  the 
early  1920s,  the  Bolshevik  Communist  party  gave 
historic Azerbaijani lands to Armenia, specifically the 
Zangezur region. 
Regarding  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  region,  the 
Bolshevik party made a decision to retain it as a part 
of  Azerbaijan.  In  fact,  it  was  the  Bolshevik  party, 
specifically the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, 
Joseph  Stalin,  who  signed  a  decree  in  1948  for  the 
deportation of 100 Azerbaijanis from what is now called 
Armenia.  Furthermore,  Armenia  has  been  taking  an 
unconstructive position in the peace process. Instead of 
engaging in negotiations in good faith with Azerbaijan, 
it has tried to consolidate the status quo and mislead the 
international community. That is a significant part of 
Armenia’s efforts in that connection.
I  would  like  to  remind  members  that  Armenia 
venerates war criminals and convicted terrorists, such 
as  Monte  Melkonian and  Varoujan  Garabedian,  who 
are  convicted  terrorists  but  are  now  venerated  as  war 
heroes in Armenia. The Armenians have even erected 
monuments  to  them.  Moreover,  the  Government  of 
Armenia  openly  threatens  to  conduct  further  armed 
attacks  against  Azerbaijan’s  populated  areas  and 
critical civilian infrastructure, such as water dams and 
other  places,  which  could  lead  to  mass  killings.  The 
Armenian President and other officials have taken pride 
in participating in the killing of Azerbaijani civilians, 
including in Khojaly town. Statements to that effect on 
the part of high-level Armenian officials have become 
frequent in recent times.
I believe that Armenia should stop its futile efforts 
to  misuse  the  novel  principle  of  self-determination  to 
cover up their use of force against Azerbaijan and the 
notorious  ethnic  cleansing  that  they  had  committed 
against  1  million  Azerbaijanis.  Armenia  is  the  last 
entity  in  the  world  with  the  right  to  speak  about  the 
principle of self-determination. It is a country that has 
ensured  that  its  territory  is  completely  monoethnic, 
as  result  of  its  deporting  and  forcing  out  all  other 
ethnicities,  including  large  numbers  of  Azerbaijanis, 
which constituted up to 50 per cent of the population of 
the territory, including in its capital, Yerevan.
including 
and 
the  negotiations 
As  for  allegations  regarding  the  recent  political 
processes, 
the 
strengthening of the ceasefire regime, Azerbaijan stands 
for  an  effective  ceasefire.  Our  main  concern  is  that 
frequent violence diverts attention from the resolution 
of  the  remaining  issues  to  technical  issues.  It  should 
also be stressed that all such measures can be helpful 
only in the context of results-oriented, substantive talks 
that conform with the agreements reached at the Vienna 
and Saint Petersburg meetings.
Mr. Kazhoyan (Armenia): I apologize for taking the 
floor once again. When somebody says that something 
is an established truth, I most certainly want to hear by 
whom and where it was established and where the proof 
lies. Otherwise, nothing is established until it is proven 
and established, or capable of being proven. 
In  speaking  of  Khojaly,  it  is  strange  to  hear  the 
Azerbaijani  delegation 
speaking  about  Khojaly. 
I  mentioned  their  short  memory.  If  one  reads  the 
Azerbaijani  newspapers  of  that  time,  it  is  perfectly 
clear who committed the Khojaly genocide — it was the 
leadership of Azerbaijan. That information was posted 
in  newspapers  all  over  the  country.  I  definitely  agree 
about the behaviour pattern of the Islamic State in the 
Levant  and  Syria.  That  pattern  could  well  have  been 
created in Khojaly, but that pattern was created by the 
Azerbaijani troops, who were killing their own civilian 
population.  Armenian  troops  were,  on  the  contrary, 
opening  free  peace  corridors  to  facilitate  the  civilian 
population’s withdrawal from the scene of the fighting.
Returning  to  the  issue  of  self-determination,  the 
current  negotiations  are,  as  was  mentioned,  being 
conducted  under  the  leadership  of  the  Minsk  Group 
co-Chairs,  in  accordance  with  three  basic  principles, 
namely,  the  self-determination  of  nations,  territorial 
integrity and the non-use of force or threat of the use of 
force. How can one not talk about self-determination? 
Self-determination  is  part  of  the  history  of  the  193 
States Members of the current United Nations. If any 
nation  has  had  the  right  to  self-determination,  then 
Armenians in Nagorno Karabakh have that same right. 
32/33 
16-29679
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.19
No Azerbaijani official can deny them those universal 
human rights.
Armenian side has violated that principle. That is the 
first issue.
It  is  also  interesting  to  hear  about  the  1918-1920 
situation. What should be remembered, however, is that 
the League of Nations accepted the request of Armenia 
and  Georgia  for  admission  to  the  League  of  Nations. 
The League refused Azerbaijan’s request for admission 
to  the  League  because  of  its  territorial  problems  and 
unresolved issues with its neighbours.
Speaking  about  glorifying  the  remembrance  of 
terrorists,  Azerbaijan  is  the  first  country  to  harbour 
criminals  and  terrorists,  while  granting  them  the 
status of a hero. Everybody remembers the story of the 
Azerbaijani officer who murdered a sleeping Armenian 
officer with an axe during NATO exercises in Budapest, 
Hungary.  The  Hungarian  court  sentenced  the  axe 
murderer to life in prison; but he was later extradited 
to Azerbaijan to continue his sentence. The moment his 
plane  landed  in  Azerbaijan,  the  Azerbaijani  President 
pardoned him, granting him every possible glorification 
as  a  hero.  He  became  a  national  Azerbaijani  hero.  I 
cannot  believe  that  a  nation  has  chosen  someone  like 
Ramil  Safarov  as  a  hero  merely  because  he  killed  an 
Armenian. What is the future of such a nation?
Armenia  is  home  to  12  national  and  religious 
minorities.  Some  of  them,  including  Yazidis  and 
Assyrians, lack their own State. They are very happily 
living in Armenia, where they are guaranteed all of their 
rights. Azerbaijani people were also living in Armenia 
with  guaranteed  rights.  However,  after  the  outbreak 
of  the  massacres  in  Azerbaijan,  where  every  single 
Armenian was massacred, today, out of a population of 
about half a million Armenians formerly in Azerbaijan, 
not  a  single  Armenian  remains  in  Azerbaijan;  the 
Azerbaijani  authorities  had,  however,  presented  some 
falsified numbers on that topic.
Who is more tolerant and who is not? I will leave 
that rhetorical question to Member States.
Mr.  Mammadov  (Azerbaijan):  I  would  like  to 
make just a few remarks. 
We  would  like  to  refresh  the  memory  of  the 
Armenian delegation that, in the current negotiations, 
the  principles  now  under  discussion  are  based  on  the 
Helsinki  Final  Act.  The  Helsinki  Final  Act  stresses 
three principles. But somehow the Armenian delegation 
tries to provide short versions of them. The first is the 
political  independence  of  States.  Given  the  years  of 
war against the territorial integrity of Azerbaijan, the 
is 
the  respect  for 
The  second  principle 
the 
territorial integrity of States. We are wondering how the 
Armenian side sees that, namely, their obligation under 
international law to respect the territorial integrity of 
States.
The  third  principle  is  the  equal  rights  and  self-
determination  of  peoples,  in  conformity  with  the 
territorial integrity of States, as written in the Helsinki 
Final Act. Azerbaijan highly appreciates the principle 
of self-determination. The issue is that Armenia has no 
right at all to speculate on that principle. For example, 
first,  they  have  covered  up  the  use  of  force  against 
Azerbaijan  and  the  ethnic  cleansing;  secondly,  they 
seek to divert attention from the notorious monoethnic 
situation  that  Armenia  has  artificially  created  in  its 
own territory. As for the case of Khojaly, indeed, it is 
one of the darkest pages in the history of mankind. 
With  regard  to  responsibility,  let  me  remind 
everyone  that  President  Serzh  Sargsyan,  the  current 
President  of  Armenia,  who  was  head  of  the  illegal 
armed formations that were created by Armenia in the 
occupied  Azerbaijan  territories  and  which  occupied 
the  town  of  Khojaly  in  1992,  admitted  in  public,  on 
record, without any feeling of remorse, unequivocally, 
his culpability for the extermination of the inhabitants 
and defenders of the town. The following citation from 
a well-known interview with the Armenian President is 
self-explanatory:
“Before  Khojaly,  the  people  of  Azerbaijan 
thought that the Armenians were people who could 
not raise their hands against the civilian population. 
We were able to break that stereotype.”
That comes from an interview with Thomas De Waal 
from his book Black Garden: Armenia and Azerbaijan 
Through  Peace  and  War,  published  by  New  York 
University  Press  in  2003.  I  think  the  quote  clearly 
shows the responsibility of the Armenian Government. 
With  regard  to  Azerbaijan,  the  Government  has 
not given any awards to anyone who was convicted on 
charges of terrorism. It was the Government of Armenia 
that pardoned Monte Melkonian, who was a convicted 
terrorist.  The  Prime  Minister  of  Armenia  welcomed 
another  convicted  terrorist,  Varoujan  Garabedian,  at 
the  airport.  No  official  of  Azerbaijan  has  ever  done 
anything similar.
The meeting rose at 9.30 p.m.
16-29679
33/33
