United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
31st plenary meeting
Thursday, 20 October 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.31
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 119
Commemoration of the abolition of slavery and the 
transatlantic slave trade
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/170)
The  President:  The  scale  of  the  human  suffering 
caused  by  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  is  an  affront 
to  humankind’s  conscience.  For  over  400  years,  this 
reprehensible  practice  continued  and  was  the  largest 
forced migration in human history. More than 15 million 
men, women and children, forced against their will to 
leave  their  homes,  families  and  communities,  were 
victims  of  this  inhumane  and  barbaric  system.  Many 
lost  their  lives  as  the  slave  ships  crossed  the  Atlantic 
Ocean, and those who survived were forced to endure 
lives of humiliation and brutality.
sold 
While  people  were  bought  and 
like 
commodities,  human  dignity  was  stripped  from  all 
concerned. Forced to work under deplorable conditions 
on  plantations,  in  textile  mills  and  factories,  slaves 
suffered  while  others  built  their  fortunes  on  the  back 
of this miserable system. The commitment of Member 
States to ensuring that humankind does not forget this 
dark time of human history is to be commended.
The  declaration  of  25  March  as  the  International 
Day  of  Remembrance  of  the  Victims  of  Slavery  and 
the  Transatlantic  Slave  Trade  and  the  establishment 
of  a  permanent  memorial —  The  Ark  of  Return  —  at 
Headquarters serve as permanent reminders. They help 
to educate us and future generations of the horrors of 
the transatlantic slave trade.
Modern  forms  of  slavery  plague  our  world  today, 
including  human  trafficking,  forced  labour  and  child 
labour.  The  memory  of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade 
gives us a huge moral imperative to effectively combat 
modern  slavery.  That  includes  providing  productive 
employment  and  decent  work  for  all,  in  line  with 
the  provisions  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. Also in memory of the slave trade, racism, 
racial discrimination, xenophobia and intolerance must 
be overcome whenever and wherever we find it.
The  historical  struggle  of  enslaved  people  for 
freedom  and  equality  took  great  courage,  hope  and 
determination.  These  qualities,  exercised  by  a  long-
oppressed people, inspire us today as we work to combat 
inequality and exploitation. The eventual achievement 
of emancipation gives us strength today in the enduring 
human aspiration and defence of freedom.
Mr.  Webson  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  I  have  the 
honour to speak on behalf of the member States of the 
Caribbean Community (CARICOM).
CARICOM  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  (A/71/170)  entitled  “Permanent 
memorial to and remembrance of the victims of slavery 
and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade:  status  of  the  United 
Nations  Trust  Fund  for  Partnerships  —  Permanent 
Memorial”.  We  also  take  note  and  acknowledge  in 
particular  the  decision  set  forth  in  paragraph  6  of 
resolution  69/19,  recalled  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-33413 (E)
*1633413*
A/71/PV.31 
20/10/2016
report,  to  use  any  funds  remaining  in  the  Trust  Fund 
for the maintenance of the memorial.
We  also  would  like  to  express  our  profound 
gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General  for  the  excellent 
management  of  the  funds,  and  to  our  partners  across 
the various regional groups within the United Nations 
for their support for the CARICOM initiative to erect a 
permanent memorial as a lasting tribute to the victims 
of slavery and the transatlantic slave trade. CARICOM 
also  expresses  its  sincere  appreciation  to  the  Member 
States,  organizations  and  individuals  that  have  made 
contributions to the Trust Fund for the construction of 
the memorial.
CARICOM envisions that the memorial, The Ark of 
Return,  will  speak  volumes  to  hundreds  of  thousands 
of people in the years to come. It will encourage people 
of  all  races,  colours,  creeds  and  cultural  and  social 
standing  to  respect  each  other  as  one  people.  In  that 
regard,  CARICOM  calls  on  the  Secretary-General  to 
continue  to  take  appropriate  steps  to  enhance  world 
public awareness of the commemorative activities and 
the permanent memorial at the Headquarters. We also 
request  that  the  Department  of  Public  Information 
of 
take  appropriate 
steps  to  enhance  world  public  awareness  of  the 
commemorative activities and the permanent memorial 
at the Headquarters, in cooperation with the countries 
concerned and the relevant organizations and bodies of 
the United Nations system.
the  Secretariat  continue 
to 
CARICOM  reiterates  that  the  progress  we  have 
made should not cause us to rest on any laurels. In fact, 
quite  to  the  contrary,  we  should  redouble  our  efforts 
and  use  all  means  at  our  disposal  to  combat  racism 
and  eliminate  racial  discrimination.  The  modern-
day  manifestations  of  slavery  should  be  countered 
with all our might. We who have come out victorious 
from  the  injustices  and  inequity  of  slavery  should  be 
at  the  vanguard  of  ensuring  that  this  tragedy  never 
occurs again.
Mrs.  Rodríguez  Abascal 
in 
Spanish): We thank the Secretary-General for the report 
(A/71/170) being discussed today.
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
The  slave  trade  and  the  legacy  of  slavery  are 
the  root  causes  of  profound  social  and  economic 
inequalities,  hatred,  fanaticism,  racism  and  prejudice 
that today continue to affect people of African descent. 
At  the  World  Conference  against  Racism,  Racial 
Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance, 
held in Durban in 2001, which recognized that slavery 
and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  would  qualify  today 
as crimes against humanity, the historical leader of the 
Cuban Revolution, Fidel Castro stated,
“The inhuman exploitation imposed on the peoples 
of three continents, including Asia, marked forever 
the  destiny  and  lives  of  over  4.5  billion  people 
living  in  the  Third  World  today,  whose  poverty, 
unemployment,  illiteracy  and  health  rates,  as 
well as their infant mortality, life expectancy and 
other calamities — too many, in fact, to enumerate 
here  —  are  certainly  awesome  and  harrowing. 
They  are  the  current  victims  of  that  atrocity, 
which  lasted  centuries,  and  the  ones  who  clearly 
deserve  compensation  for  the  horrendous  crimes 
perpetrated against their ancestors and peoples.”
A  remedy  for,  and  full  compensation  to,  the 
peoples and groups affected by a crime as horrific as it 
is imprescriptible is an inescapable moral duty. In that 
vein, Cuba supports the judicious request made earlier 
on  behalf  of  the  States  members  of  the  Caribbean 
Community.  Similarly,  it  would  be  fair  to  expect 
special  and  differentiated  treatment  for  developing 
countries, in particular in Africa, with respect to their 
international economic relations.
Developed  countries,  along  with  their  consumer 
societies, are responsible for the accelerated and nearly 
unstoppable destruction of the environment. They have 
been the main beneficiaries of conquest, colonization, 
slavery, the transatlantic slave trade and the heartless 
exploitation and extermination of hundreds of millions 
of descendants of peoples of the South. Those countries 
have also been enriched by the unjust economic order 
imposed on humankind and the international financial 
institutions created exclusively for and by them as new 
forms of domination and subjugation.
As  a  result  of  that  cruel  brand  of  commerce, 
approximately  1.3  million  Africans  landed  on  our 
island,  most  of  whom  came  from  the  sub-Saharan 
area of the African continent. With their arrival, such 
African ethnic groups as the Lucumi, Carabalí, Congo, 
Ganga, Mina, Bibi and Yoruba, among others, had an 
immediate impact on the colonial society of the time. 
Following  a  complex  process  of  transculturation,  the 
Cuban  nationality  evolved  into  what  is  essentially 
a  mixture  of  Hispanic  and  African  influences.  My 
country is extremely proud of its African roots, which 
account for our cultural uniqueness and characteristics. 
2/7 
16-33413
20/10/2016 
A/71/PV.31
In  the  various  periods  of  wars  that  led  to  the  self-
determination  of  the  Cuban  people,  freed  slaves  and 
their descendants played a major role.
Despite  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade against us, Cuba will maintain its cooperation 
programmes  with  African,  Caribbean  and  Third 
World  countries  as  part  of  the  joint  efforts  aimed  at 
reversing  the  consequences  of  the  slave  trade  and  the 
other shameful iterations of capitalism in its phases of 
colonialism, neocolonialism and transnational financial 
domination.  Slavery  and  the  transatlantic  slave  trade 
are among the most serious crimes perpetrated against 
humankind that have not been properly addressed, and 
their  consequences  on  society  today  have  not  been 
appropriately acknowledged.
We reaffirm the importance of further strengthening 
the activities of the United Nations and other international 
organizations, such as UNESCO, in this area. That is 
the  least  that  the  international  community  can  do  to 
remedy the crimes of slavery and the transatlantic slave 
trade perpetrated against humankind.
Mr. Joshi (India): We thank the Secretary-General 
for  his  report  (A/71/170)  on  the  follow-up  to  the 
commemoration  of  the  two-hundredth  anniversary  of 
the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade.
The transatlantic slave trade represents one of the 
darkest phases in human history, when, several centuries 
ago, forces of globalization began to shape the modern 
world.  The  impacts  of  the  slave  trade  continue  to  be 
felt  acutely  even  today.  It  is  important  to  understand 
what the slave trade meant, so that we can draw lessons 
from our collective history and make sure that it cannot 
happen  again.  It  is  equally  important  for  the  younger 
and future generations to carry that memory.
At its very basic level, the transatlantic slave trade 
was the manifestation of naked greed and the immoral 
pursuit  of  profit  coupled  with  the  unbridled  abuse  of 
power exercised over the weak. The sheer scale of this 
crime  against  humanity  is  mind-boggling.  It  lasted 
for  four  centuries,  destroying  lives  and  communities 
across  generations  from  vast  regions  of  Africa, 
South  America  and  the  Caribbean  —  on  both  sides 
of the Atlantic. It fundamentally altered the societies, 
economies  and  polities  in  those  regions  for  centuries 
thereafter. Importantly, it helped achieve great wealth, 
prosperity and progress for some countries, yet it was 
built  upon  unspeakable  misery  and  destruction  in 
distant  continents,  as  a  frightening  example  of  what 
ungoverned and lawless globalization can lead to.
While  uprooted  African  communities  have 
contributed  greatly  to  local  economies,  they  have 
also  contributed  immensely  to  and  influenced  the 
arts, culture and life of societies where they now live. 
However, the deep wounds inflicted by the slave trade 
continue to fester today. Entire communities, including 
indigenous  communities,  continue  to  face  the  scars 
of  deep-rooted  racial  discrimination,  oppression  and 
chronic poverty. The wounds are also reflected in the 
chronic  underdeveloped  and  distorted  economies  that 
were deliberately designed for the profit of the elite in 
the faraway lands in a bygone era.
It  is  our  collective  responsibility  to  prevent  the 
recurrence  of  crimes  and  injustices  such  as  those 
associated with the slave trade. It is our duty to remember 
the  sacrifice  that  millions  of  people  were  forced  to 
make when they were uprooted from their homelands 
over generations to toil in miserable conditions for the 
profit of others.
It was therefore satisfying to note that the efforts 
of  the  Caribbean  Community,  supported  by  African 
nations and others, finally led to the establishment of 
the permanent memorial, The Ark of Return, last year at 
the United Nations. India is proud to have joined as one 
of the lead contributors to United Nations Trust Fund 
for Partnerships — Permanent Memorial.
The  International  Day  of  Remembrance  of  the 
Victims of Slavery and the Transatlantic Slave Trade, 
observed on 25 March every year, honours the memory 
of the millions who suffered under that brutal system 
and helps raise awareness of the injustice and dangers of 
racism and prejudice. This year, to mark the Day, India 
and the Department of Public Information co-organized 
an exhibition on the history of enslaved East Africans 
who were taken to India, many of whom rose to positions 
of military and political authority in our country. The 
exhibition brings out the comparatively greater social 
mobility  experienced  by  those  individuals  in  India. 
UNESCO has also played a key role in organizing and 
linking programmes through the Slave Route project to 
spread understanding of the impact and consequences 
of the slave trade.
Following  the  abolition  of  slavery,  the  colonial 
Powers  turned  to  using  millions  of  Indian  indentured 
labourers, at virtually no cost, to work on plantations 
across the world in order to perpetuate their economic 
16-33413
3/7
A/71/PV.31 
20/10/2016
domination. The UNESCO project on the International 
Indentured  Labour  Route  is  another  significant  effort 
to preserve the memory and lessons of that era.
We  must  continue  to  raise  awareness  about  the 
slave  trade  through  education  and  outreach  activities 
in order to promote a greater understanding of how our 
complex world has been shaped and what can be done 
to avoid repeating the injustices of the past.
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  Today’s  debate 
offers  us  an  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  the  victims 
of  one  of  the  most  heinous  crimes  committed  against 
humankind,  but  it  also  allows  us  to  reflect  on  the 
continued relevance of the subject today. Liechtenstein 
is  proud  to  have  contributed  to  the  creation  of  a 
permanent memorial, whose presence near the entrance 
of  the  General  Assembly  Building  is  a  powerful 
reminder not only of the tragedy of the past, but also 
of the challenges that remain with regard to slavery in 
our day.
Over a period of centuries, some 15 million men, 
women and children fell victim to the transatlantic slave 
trade,  one  of  the  darkest  chapters  in  human  history. 
Victims were forcibly removed from their families and 
homes and transferred overseas in the most appalling 
and  inhumane  conditions,  resulting  in  innumerable 
deaths.  Those  who  survived  were  subjected  to  forced 
labour  and  abuse  and  were  permanently  deprived  of 
the most basic human rights. The monument we have 
erected is a dignified and important reminder of these 
terrifying crimes against humanity. It must also serve 
as a reminder of our common commitment to ensuring 
the  absolute  prohibition  of  slavery  in  all  its  forms. 
Looking at today’s reality, we have to admit that we are 
far from reaching this goal.
An estimated 45 million people live in conditions 
that qualify as modern slavery — more people than ever 
before. The scourge of slavery persists, even though its 
prohibition  is  a  jus  cogens  norm  in  international  law, 
indeed one of the most powerful of such norms. Despite 
the  fact  that  slavery  is  outlawed  universally,  human 
trafficking and enslavement are crimes committed on a 
large scale and with widespread impunity. Today every 
single  country  is  affected  by  modern  slavery,  which 
generates billions of dollars every year. Modern slavery 
and human trafficking do not simply constitute one of 
the biggest human rights scandals of our time, but they 
are also one of the most lucrative business models for 
organized crime.
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  in  particular  has  generated  fresh  and 
dynamic momentum to address modern slavery in all 
of  its  aspects.  Modern  slavery  and  human  trafficking 
are mentioned in 3 of the 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals. The 2030 Agenda therefore gives us the platform 
to tackle the scourge, not merely as a law-enforcement 
issue but indeed in a much broader manner. 
Given  the  complexity  of  the  phenomenon,  we  all 
have  an  opportunity  to  contribute  to  the  achievement 
of  our  common  goal  to  abolish  modern  slavery. 
Liechtenstein  is  currently  focusing  on  two  aspects  in 
particular. 
First,  we  are  trying  to  address  the  business  side 
of  modern  slavery.  As  it  is  one  of  the  world’s  most 
profitable illegal business models, we can make use of 
tools  that  have  proven  effective  in  other  areas  —  for 
example, disrupting financial flows and using relevant 
data for criminal prosecutions: in short, following the 
money. We are planning to generate a set of concrete 
measures  that  will  help  enhance  coordination  among 
national judiciaries and enable effective prosecutions.
Secondly, we are working to address the enormous 
impunity gap, with action at the international level. As 
national judiciaries have systematically failed, there is a 
clear case for involving and making use of international 
criminal justice, in particular the International Criminal 
Court (ICC). The Rome Statute, the founding treaty of 
the  ICC,  has  jurisdiction  over  enslavement  as  both  a 
war  crime  and  a  crime  against  humanity.  Given  the 
universal nature of the phenomenon of modern slavery, 
the Court can play a dual role by creating incentives for 
States to investigate and prosecute at the national level 
and  by  investigating  and  prosecuting  itself  in  cases 
where  the  impunity  gap  persists.  Together  with  the 
Court, we will continue to explore options to that end.
Human trafficking and modern slavery have been 
on  the  United  Nations  agenda  for  years,  but  we  have 
clearly  not  been  effective  in  addressing  the  scourge. 
We  are  grateful  to  see  a  new  momentum  from  the 
membership  to  do  better  and  welcome  the  upcoming 
opportunities to do so. Key among them will be the open 
debate in the Security Council in December as follow-
up  to  the  first-ever  presidential  statement  adopted  by 
the Council on human trafficking in armed conflict, in 
2015 (S/PRST/2015/25). 
As input for the discussion, we organized, together 
with our partners from the United Nations University, 
4/7 
16-33413
20/10/2016 
A/71/PV.31
the  United  Kingdom  and  civil  society  partners,  a 
seminar  that  has  produced  a  set  of  recommendations 
for  inclusion  in  the  draft  resolution  that  we  believe 
the  Security  Council  should  adopt  in  December.  We 
presented  a  report  to  members  in  early  September 
and hope that its recommendations, particularly those 
concerning action, will be widely read and processed. 
We welcome the leadership of the Council on the topic. 
At the same time, the phenomena of human trafficking 
and modern slavery are of course not limited to times 
of  armed  conflict,  which  is  why  many  of  the  report’s 
recommendation can also be applied outside the context 
of the Council’s work.
Another  important  opportunity  is  the  upcoming 
review of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to 
Combat Trafficking in Persons, scheduled for October 
2017. We look forward to a well-managed process that 
will allow us to explore new options for action that we 
may  have  neglected  in  the  past  and  to  move  forward 
on the basis of consensus. The review year should also 
be  the  moment  for  us  to  work  towards  the  universal 
ratification  of  the  Protocol  to  Prevent,  Suppress  and 
Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and 
Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention 
against  Transnational  Organized  Crime,  also  known 
as the Palermo Convention. Next week, together with 
the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  and 
our  partners  from  Austria,  Slovenia  and  Switzerland, 
we will organize a side event to that end as part of our 
activities  in  the  context  of  the  women  and  peace  and 
security debate in the Security Council.
Modern  slavery  is  a  complex  phenomenon  that 
affects all of us and should leave none of us indifferent. 
As  individuals,  policymakers  and  consumers,  we  all 
have  an  opportunity  to  make  a  small  contribution  to 
eradicate  what  is  both  a  human  tragedy  and  a  large 
obstacle  to  sustainable  development.  We  believe  that 
such action is the best contribution that we can make to 
commemorate this day in a meaningful way.
Mr.  Rattray  (Jamaica):  Jamaica  wishes  to  thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  (A/71/170)  being 
considered today.
We also extend our gratitude to the United Nations 
Office for Partnerships (UNOP), which over the years 
has managed the Trust Fund established to support the 
permanent memorial. UNOP has operated at the highest 
levels  of  professionalism  and  accountability,  thereby 
demonstrating  once  again  that,  as  States  Members 
of  the  United  Nations,  we  can  be  justly  proud  of  the 
high  calibre  of  the  staff  serving  our  Organization.  I 
offer  special  thanks  to  the  Secretary-General  and  to 
the  Deputy  Secretary-General,  whose  support  for  the 
permanent  memorial  initiative  has  been  unwavering 
from  the  outset.  Their  support  has  not  only  been 
symbolic, but has been manifested in specific ways that 
directly contributed to the success of the project. In fact, 
the  very  selection  of  UNOP,  as  an  entity  specifically 
designated to support the implementation of the project, 
attests to the importance that was accorded to it by the 
Secretary-General.
UNOP played a critical role throughout all stages 
of  the  project’s  implementation  and  ensured  that  it 
remained on track and was completed on time and on 
budget.  In  addition,  it  partnered  with  the  Permanent 
Memorial  Committee  and  with  UNESCO  to  organize 
the  international  competition  that  resulted  in  the 
selection of the winning design, The Ark of Return. The 
Permanent Memorial Committee benefited immensely 
from  the  professional  support  provided  by  UNOP, 
which  acted  as  the  custodian  for  the  United  Nations 
Trust  Fund  for  Partnerships  —  Permanent  Memorial, 
and  I  take  this  opportunity  to  place  on  record  the 
Committee’s sincere gratitude.
As  demonstrated  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General,  Member  States  provided  the  vast  majority 
of  the  voluntary  contributions  used  to  undertake  the 
permanent  memorial  initiative.  We  therefore  owe  an 
immense debt of gratitude to all Member States for their 
consistent  support  of  the  project.  Our  special  thanks 
go  to  the  over  100  Member  States  —  a  wide  range 
of  developed  and  developing  States,  drawn  from  all 
geographical regions, whether or not directly affected 
by the transatlantic slave trade — that made financial 
contributions.  That  demonstrates 
importance 
that  we  have  collectively  attached  to  the  permanent 
memorial  not  just  as  a  tangible  symbol  to  honour  the 
victims and recognize those who struggled against the 
horror  of  slavery,  but  also  for  the  role  the  memorial 
plays as a reminder of the legacies of slavery and the 
need for us to take action to address them.
the 
Civil  society, 
the  private  sector  and  private 
individuals also contributed meaningfully to the Fund. 
We  thank  these  partners  for  their  commitment  and 
support. Their inclusion among the list of contributors 
demonstrates  that  the  noble  ideals  surrounding  the 
project  resonated  with  people  across  the  world.  It 
is  indeed  gratifying  that  the  permanent  memorial 
16-33413
5/7
A/71/PV.31 
20/10/2016
represents  part  of  the  United  Nations  commitment  to 
one of its founding tenets, which is that our work here 
must  always  be  on  behalf  of  “We  the  peoples  of  the 
United Nations”.
The Ark of Return is already attracting numerous 
visitors, including those who are participating in events 
and  tours  at  the  United  Nations.  We  are  confident 
that  its  aesthetic  appeal  and  universal  message  will 
endure  and  that  all  who  visit  it  will  feel  the  impact 
of  its  continuing  message.  We  recall  that  its  design 
is  purposely  sustainable,  including  its  use  of  solar 
energy  for  its  lighting  and  the  use  of  recycled  water 
for  its  tear  drop  and  fountain  features.  We  fully 
support the decision of the General Assembly that the 
balance of funds in the Trust Fund should be retained 
by  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  the  maintenance  and 
upkeep  of  the  memorial,  and  we  take  due  note  of  the 
information provided in the Secretary-General’s report 
that this is being undertaken. We look forward to the 
permanent memorial continuing to be a source of pride 
and inspiration to all its visitors over the years to come.
Ms. Mendelson (United States of America): In his 
memoir, Twelve Years a Slave, Simon Northup, a free 
American who had been enslaved in 1841, wrote,
“In  an  hour,  perhaps  two,  my  heart  leaped  to 
my throat, as the key rattled the door again. I, who 
had been so lonely and who had longed so ardently 
to see someone, I cared not who, now shuddered at 
the thought of man’s approach. A human face was 
fearful to me, especially a white one.”
Northup wrote these words after having become a victim 
of  this  transatlantic  slave  industry.  He  articulated  the 
fear and the experience of one of millions of women, 
girls,  men  and  boys  who  lost  their  freedom,  their 
lives, their families and their dignity as a result of the 
transatlantic slave trade.
The  United  States  recognizes  slavery’s  enduring 
impact on the development of our country and that of 
other countries. Collectively, we must commit to always 
remembering  slavery’s  devastation,  understanding 
its  essence  and  striving  to  heal  its  enduring  wounds. 
Descendants  of  slaves  have  made  vital  contributions 
to the United States. From the freed slaves who shared 
their stories to the leaders of the abolitionist movement 
who  propelled  progress  in  the  United  States,  to  the 
early  educators  and  agitators  against  segregation  and 
lynchings who paved the way for the modern civil rights 
movement,  to  leaders  in  the  arts,  science  and  sports, 
descendants  of  slaves  have  made  the  United  States  a 
stronger and better nation.
Descendants  of  slaves  have  contributed  to  our 
ability  as  a  nation  to  both  confront  and  acknowledge 
injustice and to build a more inclusive and just society. 
This  year  we  made  significant  strides  in  our  shared 
work  to  promote  remembrance  of  the  victims  of 
slavery.  The  down  payment  we  have  made  towards  a 
permanent memorial at the United Nations is a start. In 
Washington, D.C., the Smithsonian Institution opened 
its nineteenth museum, the National Museum of African 
American History and Culture on 24 September 2016, 
ensuring that the African American story, its roots and 
its  successes  are  prominently  featured  in  our  nation’s 
capital.  As  President  Obama  noted  at  the  opening  of 
the museum,
“the  best  history  does  not  just  sit  behind  a 
glass case; it helps us to understand what is outside 
the  case.  The  best  history  helps  us  recognize  the 
mistakes that we have made and the dark corners 
of the human spirit that we need to guard against. 
And  yes,  a  clear-eyed  view  of  history  can  make 
us  uncomfortable  and  shake  us  out  of  familiar 
narratives.  But  it  is  precisely  because  of  that 
discomfort that we learn and grow and harness our 
collective power to make this nation more perfect.”
Another way that we memorialize victims of slavery 
is through our commitment to justice in the present. In 
our reflection on this day, we do no honour to the victims 
of the transatlantic slave trade if we fail to confront the 
modern  manifestation  of  slavery  in  the  trafficking  of 
women,  men  and  children,  which  continues  to  plague 
the  world,  with  estimates  of  20  to  40  million  victims 
globally. We can use commemorations such as this one 
and  the  International  Decade  for  People  of  African 
Descent to deepen our awareness. We can pay respect to 
those who did not make it through the Middle Passage 
and to the survivors of these tragic events through such 
art  as  The  Ark  of  Return  —--  a  visible  reminder  of 
the past and an inspiration for the future. And we can 
commit to implementing the Sustainable Development 
Goal targets on eradicating human trafficking.
As  we  join  together,  let  us  also  renew  our 
commitments  to  do  even  more  to  end  discrimination 
and  exploitation.  The  call  for  “never  again”  rings 
true  today,  and  the  evidence  is  clear:  while  we  have 
come  a  long  way,  we  have  much  more  to  do  to  stop 
modern slavery.
6/7 
16-33413
20/10/2016 
A/71/PV.31
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the debate on this item. I thank Member States for their 
acknowledgment  of  the  great  significance  of  today’s 
commemoration.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 119.
The meeting rose at 10.50 a.m.
16-33413
7/7
