United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
18th plenary meeting
Friday, 23 September 2016, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.18
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Bouah-Kamon 
(Côte d’Ivoire), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.20 p.m.
Address by Mr. Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, President 
of the Republic of Mali
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Mali.
Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mali,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ibrahim 
Boubacar Keita, President of the Republic of Mali, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Keita (spoke in French): I would like to 
begin  by  extending  the  hearty  congratulations  of  the 
delegation  of  Mali  to  the  President  on  his  election  to 
lead the General Assembly at its seventy-first session, 
and on his outstanding stewardship of our work. I would 
like  to  assure  him  of  our  full  cooperation  in  those 
efforts. I would also like to acknowledge and commend 
the  excellent  work  of  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Mogens 
Lykketoft,  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventieth session.
We cannot but pay tribute to Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon as he prepares to pass the torch after 10 years 
entirely dedicated to the cause of humankind. History 
will remember not only the Secretary-General’s efforts 
to resolve many conflicts throughout the world, but also 
his personal involvement in the success of the summits 
on climate change and humanitarian action, the former 
having led to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. 
More  particularly,  I  would  like  now,  in  this  Hall,  to 
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  strong  support  of 
the Malian people and his laudable efforts in favour of 
peace and stability in my country and the Sahel region.
Peace  and  security  are  the  conditions  sine  qua 
non  of  progress  and  development,  to  which  we  aspire 
on behalf of the peoples of the United Nations, whom 
we have the honour of representing here. With respect 
to Mali, one year ago, before the General Assembly, I 
presented the Agreement on Peace and Reconciliation 
in Mali emanating from the Algiers process, which was 
signed  in  Bamako  between  the  Government  of  Mali 
and the armed movements in the northern region of the 
country (see A/70/PV.15). Today, 15 months later, from 
this rostrum, I can assure the Assembly that hostilities 
have  effectively  ceased  between  the  Government 
and  the  signatory  movements.  To  date,  significant 
progress  has  been  made  in  the  implementation  of  the 
Peace  Agreement,  which  eloquently  demonstrates  my 
Government’s will to honour its commitments and has 
generated tangible progress in all areas.
At regular intervals throughout the year, when the 
reports of the Secretary-General on the situation in Mali 
are published, the Government of Mali has briefed the 
Security Council on its progress in the execution of the 
plan of action for implementing the Peace Agreement. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29673 (E)
*1629673*
A/71/PV.18 
23/09/2016
Among  the  initiatives  and  actions  undertaken  by  the 
Government,  I  would  particularly  like  to  emphasize 
those  related  to  political  and  institutional  reforms,  as 
well  as  to  defence  and  security  issues.  Indeed,  these 
issues and reforms are fundamental and have an impact 
on the rest of the process.
It is also important to note the following policy and 
institutional  reforms:  the  appointment  and  swearing 
in  of  governors  in  the  new  regions  of  Taoudenni 
and  Ménaka,  where  delegated  project-management 
agreements  for  construction  and  equipment  for  the 
two  regions’  general  administration,  in  the  amounts 
of  $1.7  million  and  $1.36  million,  respectively,  were 
signed;  and  the  enactment  of  the  law  establishing  the 
interim administrations, which followed a modification 
of  the  law  codifying  territorial  authorities  and  the 
adoption  of  a  decree  on  modalities  for  swearing  in 
interim  administrations.  In  that  connection,  I  would 
like  to  mention  that  the  timetable  for  the  swearing  in 
of  the  interim  authorities,  developed  by  the  Malian 
Government  in  cooperation  with  the  groups  and 
movements signatory to the Peace Agreement, was set 
for between 15 July and 25 August 2016. Unfortunately, 
due  to  ongoing  insecurity  and  clashes  among  some 
armed groups, especially in Kidal, it was not possible 
to  complete  the  process  for  the  deadline.  In  that 
respect, I emphasize that the effective implementation 
of Security Council resolution 2295 (2016) will allow 
for  the  progressive  recovery  of  Mali’s  sovereignty 
throughout  its  territory,  thanks  to  implementation  of 
the Agreement on Peace and Reconciliation in Mali.
With  respect  to  security  and  defence  issues,  the 
Government  of  Mali  has  established  an  institutional 
framework  for  reforming  the  security  sector  and  for 
undertaking the process of disarmament, demobilization, 
reintegration and resettlement (DDRR). In that context, 
among  other  things,  the  Government  decided  to  take 
charge  of  the  signatory  groups’  combatants  prior  to 
the  launch  of  the  DDRR  process,  with  the  attendant 
increase  in  the  budget.  The  Government  also  created 
an  operational  coordination  mechanism  for  vehicles 
for  the  purposes  of  setting  up  the  first  joint  vehicle 
patrols.  I  hasten  to  note  that,  in  addition  to  those 
measures, which aim to bring about a return to lasting 
peace and the restoration of State authority throughout 
the  national  territory,  the  Government  has  continued 
its  development  activities  on  the  ground,  in  places 
where  the  security  conditions  allowed  it,  through  the 
implementation of sector projects and programmes.
that 
It  should  also  be  noted 
the  effective 
implementation of the Peace Agreement requires us to 
mobilize external resources to support national efforts. 
In that regard, I thank the partners that have honoured 
their  financial  commitments  to  Mali,  and  I  would 
reiterate the call of my Government to the technical and 
financial partners to release the resources pledged at the 
international conference for the economic recovery and 
development of Mali, held in Paris on 22 October 2015.
Despite the efforts by the signatories to the Peace 
Agreement,  the  peace  process  still  faces  serious 
challenges  related  to  the  activities  of  terrorist  groups 
in  the  northern  regions  that  are  indiscriminately 
expanding their asymmetrical attacks against peaceful 
civilians, the Malian defence and security forces, and 
the  troops  of  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) 
and  of  the  French-led  Operation  Barkhane.  I  reiterate 
my gratitude to the Security Council for the adoption 
of resolution 2295 (2016), which renewed MINUSMA’s 
mandate  and  authorized,  inter  alia,  the  adoption  of  a 
more  proactive  and  robust  posture  so  as  to  fulfil  its 
stabilization mandate in Mali.
I call for strengthening the operational capabilities 
of  the  deployed  troops  in  order  to  ensure  the  safety 
and  security  of  MINUSMA  personnel  and  apply  the 
innovations  set  forth  in  resolution  2295  (2016)  on  the 
ground. I would also stress the need to accelerate the 
process  of  cantonment  and  DDRR,  aimed  at  isolating 
the armed groups that are not signatories to the Peace 
Agreement  that  are  affiliated  with  terrorist  networks 
whose actions undermine ongoing efforts.
For  its  part,  the  Government  of  Mali  will  fully 
assume its responsibility under the new mandate. The 
Government  is  already  working  with  MINUSMA  to 
swiftly arrive at a shared vision of the implementation 
of the mandate by establishing measurable benchmarks. 
Accordingly,  I  welcome  the  agreement  among  all  the 
stakeholders  participating  in  high-level  meeting  on 
Mali  held  this  morning  concerning  the  importance  of 
accelerating the implementation of the Peace Agreement, 
in particular the imperative of correcting the remaining 
gaps in MINUSMA’s operational capabilities.
I  cannot  end  this  part  of  my  address  without 
expressing once again the sincere thanks and profound 
gratitude of the people of Mali for the United Nations 
and its Member States in providing multifaceted support 
for the peace process in Mali since January 2012. On 
2/25 
16-29673
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.18
behalf of a grateful Malian nation, I would also like to 
pay  tribute  to  the  memory  of  all  of  the  victims,  both 
civilian  and  military,  Malian  and  foreign,  who  have 
fallen on the field of honour in Mali in the defence of 
human dignity, freedom and democracy.
It is difficult to imagine the eradication of poverty 
and  keeping  our  promise  to  leave  no  one  behind  in 
a  context  where  armed  conflict  has  become  a  new 
normal. The proliferation of attacks perpetrated around 
the  world  is  a  sufficient  reminder  that  no  country  is 
immune  to  terrorism  and  that  there  is  no  cause  that 
justifies deliberate violence against innocent civilians. 
Mali,  which  unfortunately  continues  to  suffer  the 
horrors  of  terrorism,  encourages  and  joins  Member 
States in their shared efforts to neutralize the hydra of 
terrorism  and  its  avatars,  including  Da’esh,  Al-Qaida 
in  the  Islamic  Maghreb,  Boko  Haram,  Ansar  Eddine, 
the  Movement  for  Unity  and  Jihad  in  Western  Africa 
and  Al-Mourabitoun,  especially  in  the  Middle  East 
and Africa.
The Malian delegation welcomes the choice of the 
theme of this session — “The Sustainable Development 
Goals: a universal push to transform our world”. As the 
first session of the Assembly since the adoption of 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development by the Heads of 
State  and  Government,  the  seventy-first  session  will 
undoubtedly allow us to take stock of a full year of efforts 
to  implement  the  Agenda,  by  conducting  a  thorough 
analysis of the difficulties met with a view to finding 
the best ways and means to ensure the achievement of 
the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs).  The 
SDGs,  which  build  on  the  success  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, exhort us to go further and faster, 
if  we  want  to  put  an  end  to  all  forms  of  poverty  and 
change the lives of people in a substantial and inclusive 
manner by 2030.
We  in  Mali  are  convinced  of  the  need  to  adopt 
strategies 
that  strengthen  economic  growth  and 
respond to the vital needs of the population, including 
combating climate change, protecting the environment 
and providing education, health care, social protection 
and  jobs  for  young  people,  while  also  empowering 
women  and  ensuring  their  involvement  and  that  of 
young  people  in  the  management  of  critical  issues 
relating  to  the  socioeconomic  development  of  the 
country. In that context, we have adopted a law setting 
aside  30  per  cent  of  elective  positions  for  women. 
The  adoption  of  that  law  will  undoubtedly  contribute 
to  increasing  the  participation  of  women  in  national 
institutions.  In  addition  to  other  equally  important 
measures, the development of the strategic framework 
for economic recovery and sustainable development for 
the period 2016-2018 will serve, in the medium term, as 
the sole reference point for the design, implementation 
and  monitoring  of  different  development  policies  and 
strategies at a sectoral level.
Climate  change  is  one  of  the  major  challenges 
affecting the survival and development of humankind. 
As  a  prime  example  of  a  country  of  the  Sahel,  Mali 
is  bearing  the  brunt  of  the  effects  of  climate  change. 
That is why the delegation of Mali welcomes the strong 
commitment on the part of the international community 
in adopting and signing the Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change,  which  marks  a  decisive  turning  point  in  the 
preservation  of  the  environment.  In  that  regard,  I  am 
particularly pleased to announce that this very morning 
Mali  deposited  its  instruments  of  ratification  for  the 
Paris  Agreement,  the  implementation  of  which  I  am 
convinced will contribute to saving our environment.
Now more than ever, it is high time that the recourse 
to  weapons  and  deadly  conflicts  give  way  to  the 
imperative of dialogue in order to establish lasting peace 
throughout the world. In Africa, despite the remarkable 
progress that has been made in the promotion of peace 
and  security —  particularly  in  Liberia,  Sierra  Leone, 
Guinea-Bissau  and  Côte  d’Ivoire  —  the  fact  remains 
that the situations in Libya and South Sudan continue 
to  be  of  major  concern.  In  the  Middle  East,  we  are 
following  with  the  utmost  concern  the  developments 
in the situations in Syria, Turkey and Iraq — and we 
reaffirm our strong condemnation of terrorism in all its 
forms and manifestations.
On  the  question  of  Palestine,  which  has  been  at 
the heart of United Nations concerns for more than 70 
years, Mali reiterates its call for a two-State solution, 
with  Israel  and  Palestine  living  side  by  side  in  peace 
and  security.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  that 
the  people  and  the  Government  of  Mali  extend  their 
solidarity  and  full  support  to  their  brother  people 
in  Palestine  in  their  legitimate  fight  to  exercise  their 
inalienable right to sovereignty.
I would like to conclude by reminding the Assembly 
that it is our primary responsibility as world leaders to 
provide the necessary impetus to transform the planet 
and  to  ensure  sustainable  and  inclusive  development 
for future generations so as to safeguard them from the 
scourge  of  war  and  misery.  Millions  of  men,  women 
16-29673
3/25
A/71/PV.18 
23/09/2016
and  children  are  impatiently  waiting  for  us,  scanning 
the horizon with hope. We have no right to disappoint 
them. To that end, Mali is determined to play its role 
to the full extent of its abilities. Long live the United 
Nations at the service of a world for peace and justice.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Mali for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mali,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Mokgweetsi Eric Keabetswe 
Masisi, Vice-President of the Republic of 
Botswana
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Vice-President 
of the Republic of Botswana.
Mr.  Mokgweetsi  Eric  Keabetswe  Masisi, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Botswana,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I have great 
pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Mokgweetsi 
Eric Keabetswe Masisi, Vice-President of the Republic 
of Botswana, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
(Botswana):  On  behalf  of  His 
Excellency the President of the Republic of Botswana, 
Lieutenant  General  Seretse  Khama  Ian  Khama,  allow 
me  to  join  previous  speakers  in  congratulating  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  on  his  assumption  of 
the presidency of the General Assembly at its seventy-
first session. I also pay homage to his predecessor, His 
Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft.
Mr.  Masisi 
My delegation fully endorses the pertinent choice 
of  theme  for  this  session,  namely,  “The  Sustainable 
Development Goals: a universal push to transform our 
world”. We are aware of the need for and importance of 
reviewing, monitoring and evaluating the progress made 
in the implementation of the Sustainable Development 
Goals over the next 15 years, which has been one of the 
main  lessons  learned  from  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals.
Botswana  has  long  recognized  that,  in  order  to 
achieve sustainable development, there must be national 
ownership. It must be based on inclusive, accountable, 
democratic  and  strong  institutions  and  processes.  For 
Botswana, adherence to those principles, together with 
the  judicious  exploitation  of  natural  resources  and 
international  development  support,  has  enabled  us  to 
achieve  what  we  have  achieved  in  the  50  years  since 
our independence.
In a week, on 30 September, Botswana will celebrate 
its fiftieth anniversary of independence. I would once 
again like to remind the Assembly that in 1966 we were 
among  the  poorest  nations  of  the  world,  with  a  gross 
domestic product per capita of approximately $70. Since 
then we have managed to attain middle-income status.
When  we,  like  the  rest  of  Africa,  told  the  world 
that we were ready for self-governance, many sceptics, 
historians  and  commentators  —  including  many  in 
Africa — thought of us as a basket case that was neither 
ready  for,  nor  capable  of,  real  independence.  In  fact, 
on 28 September 1966, two days before we joined the 
community of sovereign nations, one cynical Canadian 
journalist, a certain Mr. Charles King of the Southern 
News Service, wrote an article entitled “Bechuanaland 
Poor,  Hungry  Desert  Land,  Independence  to  Come 
Friday”, observing that
“The new blue, white and black flags are flying 
everywhere in Gaberones, its incongruous capital 
city. But elsewhere in the vast, trackless wasteland 
that will take the name of Botswana there is little 
to celebrate.”
He continued:
“Two  years  of  disastrous  drought  and  crop 
failure have brought havoc and hunger to its widely 
scattered  agricultural  inhabitants.  More  than  one 
fifth of the population is literally being kept alive 
by emergency feeding, and the numbers are rapidly 
increasing ...
“It  also  has  debts  and  economic  misery.  It  is 
destined to be an international charity case forever, 
exporting its ablest men and its cattle in exchange 
for cash and kindness from abroad.”
With about 3 kilometres of paved roads in the entire 
country,  with  42  graduates,  a  few  primary  schools,  a 
single  railway  line,  operated  by  neighbouring  hostile 
and  white-minority-ruled 
then-Rhodesia,  and  one 
national radio station, which broadcast for two hours a 
4/25 
16-29673
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.18
day, ours is a country born out of humble beginnings, 
from which we managed our own development. Having 
joined the United Nations in 1966, together with Lesotho, 
Guyana and Barbados, we are proud and contented to 
look back on the experiment we started and see that it 
was well worth the try. From next to nothing, we placed 
a high premium on building a united, democratic and 
accountable nation premised on respect for democracy, 
human rights, the rule of law and strong institutions.
Conscious  of  the  prevailing  circumstances  and 
challenges,  we  chose  to  base  the  development  of  our 
society  on  four  key  national  development  principles, 
that  is,  democracy,  development,  unity  and  self-
reliance. As we reflect on our challenges and the modest 
achievements that we have made, we are proud of the 
fact that we are among Africa’s most stable democracies, 
having held free, fair and peaceful multiparty elections 
every  five  years  without  interruption.  It  is  our  every 
intention to continue along that path.
In celebrating 50 years of independent nationhood, 
we  are  conscious  of  the  fact  that  we  could  not  have 
achieved all those milestones without the much-needed 
support and solidarity of the international community. 
For that we shall forever remain grateful to our reliable 
global partners, who have stood with us throughout the 
challenging journey. We have today made great strides 
and  achievements  in  the  areas  of  education,  health 
care, infrastructure and human-resource development, 
as  well  as  women  and  youth  empowerment.  Those 
achievements, however, should not make us complacent.
Like  many  nations,  Botswana  is  already  feeling 
the  adverse  impact  of  climate  change.  Such  impact 
is  manifested  in  a  decline  in  agricultural  production, 
rising  food  insecurity  and  increasing  water  stress,  all 
of which are projected to worsen with time. The threat 
must not be underestimated. Urgent and effective global 
action  on  climate  change,  mitigation  and  adaptation 
is  required  to  avoid  the  catastrophic  consequences 
of  global  warming.  The  seventy-first  session  of  the 
General Assembly provides a strategic opportunity for 
injecting  much  needed-political  momentum  into  the 
effective  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda,  which 
this organ unanimously adopted exactly one year ago.
The recent high-level event on large movements of 
refugees  and  migrants,  held  just  a  few  days  ago,  is  a 
stark  reminder  of  the  challenges  we  continue  to  face 
as a planet. While we commend all States that take on 
the burden of receiving displaced people, that is not the 
only answer. More effort should be put into addressing 
the  problem  and  finding  solutions  in  the  countries 
from which they come. Clearly, the current situation of 
receiving such people serves only to encourage others 
to follow their predecessors.
As  a  member  of  the  community  of  nations  that 
cherishes  freedom,  peace  and  the  fulfilment  and 
enjoyment of life, Botswana remains deeply concerned 
about  the  many  acts  of  terror,  conflict  and  human 
suffering  that  have  precipitated  the  vast  and  large 
displacement of people across the globe. In that regard, 
we  are  concerned  about  the  protracted  Syrian  crisis, 
which  could  have  been  contained  had  the  Security 
Council  and  the  international  community  intervened 
promptly.  History  will  judge  us  harshly,  for  we  have 
allowed the situation to degenerate into what it is today. 
However, we are well aware that Al-Assad, as well as 
his  system,  which  slaughters  the  innocent,  is  not  the 
only party committing crimes against humanity.
We  are  equally  concerned  about,  and  strongly 
condemn, 
the  continued  blatant  contravention  of 
international  law  and  United  Nations  resolutions  by 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  through 
its callous testing of ballistic missiles. To demonstrate 
our  abhorrence,  Botswana  terminated  its  diplomatic 
relations with that rogue State. In fact, in our opinion, 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  Syria 
do not deserve membership of this world body, owing 
to their lack of respect for, and adherence to, the values 
and principles that they committed to uphold.
As  a  community  of  nations  bound  by  universal 
ideals  and  a  shared  moral  ethos,  it  would  be  a 
dereliction  of  our  responsibilities  if  we  did  not  hold 
one  another  accountable  in  the  event  of  breaches  of 
the very fundamental values of human rights that the 
Organization is committed to uphold. In the light of the 
increasing security threats, we call upon the Security 
Council,  as  the  organ  responsible  for  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security, 
to  demonstrate 
seriousness in executing that important mandate. It can 
no longer be acceptable to hide behind the veto while 
millions of innocent lives are lost.
We  continue  to  express  our  sympathies  to  those 
afflicted by disasters such as earthquakes, floods and 
other natural calamities. We extend our condolences to 
the families of all those who lost their lives in the past 
year. In that regard, we wish to commend civil society 
for  its  tireless  efforts  in  providing  humanitarian  aid 
16-29673
5/25
A/71/PV.18 
23/09/2016
to  those  in  dire  need.  In  the  same  vein,  we  reiterate 
our long-held belief, which is shared by many, and in 
line  with  the  hallowed  principle  of  the  responsibility 
to protect, that States have the primary responsibility 
to protect their own populations from genocide, ethnic 
cleansing,  war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity. 
We  commend  human  rights  organizations’  work  in 
exposing  such  violations  wherever  they  occur  in  the 
world.
As a staunch supporter of the International Criminal 
Court,  we  stand  by  all  efforts  to  fight  impunity  and 
strengthen  the  international  criminal  justice  system 
in order to bring justice to the victims of such crimes. 
We  urge  all  States  signatories  of  the  Rome  Statute  to 
uphold their commitments.
It  is  crucial  that  we  step  up  our  efforts  in  the 
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution  1325 
(2000)  in  order  to  effectively  protect  women  and 
children  in  armed  conflict  and  involve  them  at  all 
levels and processes of mediation, peacekeeping, peace 
maintenance,  reconstruction  and  development,  given 
the fact that they suffer most from the effects of armed 
conflict. As a peace-loving nation, Botswana reaffirms 
its  abiding  faith  in  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  the 
various  multilateral  instruments  under  international 
humanitarian law, including the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights.
Let me conclude by commending Brazil for hosting 
a successful Olympic Games despite criticisms in some 
quarters  that  predicted  failure  while  disseminating 
messages  of  fear  linking  the  Games  with  the  issues 
of,  inter  alia,  the  zika  virus  and  terrorism.  In  a 
related matter, we strongly condemn the International 
Paralympic  Committee  for  its  blanket  ban  of  Russian 
athletes.  Botswana  does  not  condone  doping  in  any 
way,  but  to  punish  clean  athletes  is  discrimination. 
Those  who  participate  in  the  Paralympic  Games  are 
disabled, and the Games are a way of including them 
in  the  mainstream  and  helping  them  overcome  their 
challenges.  For  a  body  that  was  set  up  specifically  to 
show  compassion  and  caring  to  treat  people  like  that 
is indeed a gross injustice. We believe that there is an 
agenda beyond its stated reasons for doing so.
I  wish 
to 
reaffirm  Botswana’s 
continued 
commitment  to  playing  its  full  part  in  the  quest  for 
international  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  to  the 
international community’s unrelenting efforts to make 
the  world  a  safer  and  more  prosperous  place  for  both 
present and future generations.
Finally, as we are in the United States of America, 
we  wish  the  people  of  America  successful  elections 
in  November.  We  hope  that  the  person  who  emerges 
victorious will be someone who is known to be tolerant 
and  who  embraces  all  people.  Allow  me,  in  the  same 
breath,  to  return  in  equal  measure  the  accolades 
extended  to  us  by  President  Obama.  We  in  Botswana 
fully  recognize,  remain  confident  in  and  exalt  the 
leadership of President Obama. These indeed have been 
eight  glorious  years  —  the  best  years  for  the  United 
States of America and Africa by any measure. We wish 
him well and a well-deserved retirement.
In  the  spirit  of  the  Charter,  and  as  inspired  by 
the  2030  Agenda  and  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, let us push to transform our world and leave no 
one behind.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Botswana  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mokgweetsi  Eric  Keabetswe  Masisi, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Botswana,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Muhammad Jusuf Kalla, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Indonesia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Vice-President 
of the Republic of Indonesia.
Mr. Muhammad Jusuf Kalla, Vice-President of the 
Republic of Indonesia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  French):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Muhammad  Jusuf  Kalla,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  Indonesia,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
Mr.  Kalla  (Indonesia):  I  wish  to  congratulate 
Mr. Peter Thomson on his assumption of the presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.
He  may  rest  assured  of  Indonesia’s  commitment  to 
contributing to his successful tenure at the helm of the 
General Assembly.
The theme of the general debate — “The Sustainable 
Development Goals: a universal push to transform our 
6/25 
16-29673
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.18
world” — is appropriate as we move forward with our 
shared  commitment  to  maintaining  and  building  on 
the  momentum  that  we  achieved  last  year.  Indonesia 
attaches  great  priority  to  the  issue  of  development, 
particularly  sustainable  development.  Through  the 
commitments  and  the  setting  of  global  targets  in  the 
Millenium Development Goals (MDGs), the world has 
made considerable progress in achieving development 
for  all.  The  MDGs  have  been  an  important  guide  for 
countries to eradicate poverty. The time frame for their 
realization added a much-needed sense of urgency for 
the global community.
Today  we  have  a  new  set  of  global  goals  and 
time  frames.  The  transformative  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  is  a  comprehensive  global 
framework  for  sustainable  development  for  us  at  the 
national  level  and  for  the  international  community  to 
act as one. The issues the Agenda addresses are broader 
than those covered by the MDGs. The Agenda reflects 
the  challenges  faced  by  countries  at  a  national  level, 
while  simultaneously  committing  the  international 
community to addressing global challenges.
institutional 
Indonesia is fully committed to implementing the 
2030 Agenda. We have taken concrete measures such 
as mainstreaming the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) into our national development plan; finalizing 
legal  and 
for  national 
implementation,  while  engaging  all  stakeholders, 
including  local  Governments,  academia,  civil-society 
and  philanthropic  organizations;  and  developing 
national  and  sub-national  action  plan  guidelines, 
the  SDGs  database  and  monitoring,  evaluation  and 
reporting mechanisms.
frameworks 
However,  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs  had 
taught  us  an  important  lesson,  namely,  that  national 
commitments need to be complemented by strong and 
robust  international  cooperation.  In  that  regard,  the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda must be supported 
by organizing a strong global partnership, one that makes 
a  transformative  difference  to  the  efforts  to  advance 
sustainable development. The global community must 
also  provide  sufficient  means  for  the  implementation 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Such  means 
include stable and predictable funding mechanisms and 
innovative approaches for financing development.
If  we  are  to  achieve  our  2030  Agenda,  we  need 
an  enabling  environment.  I  am  sure  that  we  are  all 
familiar  with  the  phrase  “peace  is  a  prerequisite 
for  development”.  Basically,  the  phrase  means  that 
without  peace,  security  and  stability  there  can  be  no 
development.  From  our  experience  in  the  1950s  and 
1960s, Indonesia can attest to the statement’s veracity. 
Internal conflict and regional strife with our neighbours 
turned Indonesia’s focus away from development.
Today  we  are  seeing  much  of  the  same  in  many 
parts  of  the  world.  A  lack  of  peace,  security  and 
stability have resulted in far too many of our brothers 
and sisters having to struggle for their basic survival, 
sometimes in unimaginable and inhumane conditions. 
Increased  tension  between  countries  and  unresolved 
territorial disputes, if left unrestrained, all increase the 
risk of open conflicts.
from 
threats 
Real  and  constant 
terrorism, 
extremism  and  radicalism  continue  to  haunt  us.  A 
divisive “us versus them” mindset is giving rise to racial 
prejudice, stigmatization and religious intolerance. The 
long list of non-traditional challenges that profoundly 
affect  humankind  continues  to  grow,  ranging  from 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  to  drug 
trafficking, and from people smuggling and trafficking 
to cybercrime.
In  addition,  we  continue  to  helplessly  watch 
the  suffering  of  the  Palestinian  people.  Despite  the 
overwhelming  support  for  a  two-State  solution,  the 
Middle East peace process remains resistant to moving 
into gear. Unprecedented humanitarian challenges, such 
as the phenomenon of refugees and irregular migration, 
resulting from the situation in Syria, Yemen, Iraq and 
other  parts  of  the  world,  continue.  Almost  daily,  we 
must confront a 24-hour news cycle, with the networks 
presenting us with images of world’s stark reality — the 
blood, tears and vacant stares of the most vulnerable, 
our children.
All  of  that  is  taking  place  against  the  backdrop 
of  a  slowing  global  economy.  The  World  Bank  has 
downgraded  the  global  economic  growth  forecast 
from  2.9  per  cent  to  2.4  per  cent.  The  gap  between 
rich  and  poor  is  increasingly  widening.  At  the  same 
time,  environmental  degradation  and  climate  change 
continue to accelerate, directly affecting island States 
and the most vulnerable countries.
All those critical challenges must be seen for what 
they are — global and massive challenges. In the face 
of  these  great  challenges,  it  is  our  commitment  and 
our efforts that will prevail. No one country or region 
alone  can  resolve  these  challenges.  What  we  need 
16-29673
7/25
A/71/PV.18 
23/09/2016
are  global  solutions,  global  partnerships  and  global 
solidarity. More than ever before, we need the United 
Nations — an Organization that is at the centre of our 
global governance, an Organization that is transparent, 
effective, accountable, efficient and representative.
In  that  regard,  United  Nations  reform  is  key  to 
making the Organization stronger and more relevant to 
confronting  the  challenges  and  reality  of  the  twenty-
first century, and to eliminating the silo mentality that 
characterizes the way in which the Secretariat carries 
out  its  work.  There  have  been  too  many  important 
players left out of the United Nations decision-making 
processes, too many instances where the principles of 
democracy are put aside. Too often the decisions made 
at the United Nations differ from what is needed on the 
ground.  We  need  to  mainstream  the  SDGs  and  their 
related  targets,  as  well  as  such  universal  principles 
as  human  rights,  in  all  activities  and  work  of  the 
committees,  agencies  and  related  bodies  within  the 
United Nations system. Most important, Member States 
must  also  adapt  to  the  new  realities  and  challenges 
facing  the  Organization.  We  need  to  embrace  new 
methods of work that would safeguard such important 
targets as the successful implementation of the SDGs.
Indonesia is a true advocate of multilateralism. It 
is inherent in our DNA, in the founding of our nation 
and  in  our  Constitution.  We  are  a  nation  with  the 
world’s fourth-largest population and its largest Muslim 
population.  We  are  also  the  world’s  third-largest 
democracy. Ours is a country where democracy, Islam, 
modernity and the empowerment of women go hand in 
hand. We are at the forefront of promoting democracy, 
tolerance, pluralism and peace.
Our  nation  is  made  up  of  thousands  of  islands, 
both large and small, and therefore we fully understand 
the  impacts  of  climate  change.  Most  important,  ours 
is  a  nation  that  respects  and  fully  adheres  to  the 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  in  its 
foreign  relations.  Those  traits  have  allowed  Indonesia 
to  play  a  contributing  role  in  various  United  Nations 
collective efforts.
In the areas of peace and security, Indonesia remains 
steadfastly  committed  to  increasing  its  contribution 
to  United  Nations  peacekeeping,  with  a  target  of 
providing  4,000  personnel  by  2019.  Our  “Roadmap 
Vision  4,000  Peacekeepers”  initiative  has  motivated 
us to work unflaggingly to strengthen United Nations 
peacekeeping operations, while we remain mindful of 
the fact that contributions to peacekeeping operations 
are not merely about numbers. Indonesia’s cooperation 
and  efforts  in  countering  terrorism  have  also  been 
enhanced both regionally and globally.
We  continue  to  demonstrate  our  pioneering  role 
in  combating  climate  change  through  mitigation  and 
adaptation efforts and in addressing ocean and maritime 
issues.  We  signed  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change and are on schedule to conclude the ratification 
process  in  due  course.  Indonesia  is  also  committed 
to  the  global  efforts  to  promote  and  protect  human 
rights.  At  the  regional  level,  we  continue  to  maintain 
stability  and  prosperity 
regional 
cooperation,  as  demonstrated  by  our  participation  in 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  as  well 
as through knowledge-sharing in our South-South and 
triangular cooperation.
through  active 
Against  that  backdrop,  allow  me  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  announce  Indonesia’s  candidature  for 
a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the 
period  2019-2020.  Indonesia’s  practices,  commitment 
and contribution to the United Nations make it a true 
partner for world peace. Indonesia recognizes that our 
journey  to  2030  may  not  always  be  smooth  sailing. 
Addressing  the  realities  of  our  world  today  cannot 
wait  for  perfect  conditions.  We  must  strengthen  our 
commitment  to  ramping  up  concrete  efforts  aimed 
at  creating  an  environment  conducive  to  widespread 
progress, thereby ensuring a better tomorrow.
factor 
Lasting  peace  is  not  merely  a  goal  —  it  is  the 
determining 
for  meaningful  development. 
Indonesia remains steadfast in its commitment to being 
at the forefront of global partnerships for world peace 
and  prosperity  for  all.  We  will  always  endeavour  to 
spearhead  efforts  to  work  together  towards  creating 
a  stronger,  more 
representative  and  democratic 
United Nations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Indonesia  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Muhammad  Jusuf  Kalla,  Vice-President  of 
the  Republic  of  Indonesia,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
8/25 
16-29673
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.18
Address by Mr. Taban Deng Gai, 
Vice-President of the Republic of South Sudan
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Vice-President 
of the Republic of South Sudan.
Mr. Taban Deng Gai, Vice-President of the Republic 
of South Sudan, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Taban 
Deng  Gai,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Gai  (South  Sudan):  I  bring  to  the  General 
Assembly greetings from my President, General Salva 
Kiir  Mayardit,  President  of  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan,  who  would  have  loved  to  be  here  but  who, 
owing  to  other  national  commitments,  has  asked  me 
to  represent  him  at  the  seventy-first  session  of  the 
General Assembly. Allow me to congratulate Mr. Peter 
Thomson  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  I  also  want  to 
commend his predecessor, Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, for 
a job well done.
More  important,  I  wish  to  pay  tribute  and  extend 
my  appreciation  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for his global achievements and for his interest in, and 
attention to, South Sudan. In my culture, a white bull is 
a symbol of peace. South Sudanese President Salva Kiir 
Mayardit once gave His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon 
a  white  bull  as  a  gesture  of  peace.  The  bull  has  now 
grown enough to be ready for delivery to the Secretary-
General,  to  whom  we  wish  all  the  best  in  his  future 
endeavours.
Every  year  we  try  to  remind  ourselves  of  the 
cardinal principle of global peace. Although the theme 
of this year’s debate is “The Sustainable Development 
Goals:  a  universal  push  to  transform  our  world”,  we 
still  understand  that  without  peace  we  will  not  be 
able  to  achieve  that  noble  objective.  Indeed,  we  need 
to  transform  our  world  in  order  to  collectively  and 
specifically  respond  to  the  many  challenges  that  we 
are facing today. Bringing human suffering to an end 
and ensuring that human dignity for all is achieved and 
respected around the world are noble goals that we must 
all strive to attain.
My  country,  South  Sudan,  which  was  admitted 
to the General Assembly five years ago, in July 2011, 
has  once  again  descended  into  conflict.  Today  South 
Sudan  has  been  struck  by  civil  war  because  we,  the 
leaders  of  the  country,  have  failed  to  agree  on  how 
to  address  the  internal  challenges  of  governance 
and  leadership  within  our  political  party,  the  Sudan 
People’s  Liberation  Movement  (SPLM).  After  nearly 
two years of protracted fighting, we were able to reach 
a  decision  and  sign  the  Agreement  on  the  Resolution 
of  the  Conflict  in  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan,  in 
August  2015,  which  we  are  currently  and  steadily 
implementing, with support from our region’s regional 
body, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development 
(IGAD), as well as the African Union (AU), the Troika 
countries — the United States of America, the United 
Kingdom  and  Norway  —  the  European  Union  (EU), 
China and the rest of the world.
However,  in  the  course  of  implementing  the 
Agreement,  one  of  our  leaders,  the  former  Chairman 
of the Sudan People’s Liberation Army-In Opposition 
(SPLA-IO), triggered renewed fighting on 7 to 11 July, 
which  brought  about  new  instability.  This  time  the 
fighting took place inside the presidential palace itself, 
with  the  primary  objective  of  taking  power  by  force. 
Fortunately,  the  SPLA-IO  forces  were  defeated  in  the 
ensuing  battles,  and  their  leader  decided  to  flee  from 
Juba  and  abandon  the  process  of  implementing  the 
August 2015 peace agreement signed in Addis Ababa. 
This man has resorted to fighting the very Government 
he served as first Vice-President.
After this departure, our party, the SPLA-IO, which 
is the leading party to the agreement, met and agreed 
to replace him as a leader of SPLA-In Opposition. The 
official  leadership  of  the  SPLA-IO  took  that  decision 
after  having  established  that  the  position  of  the  first 
Vice-President was vacant and that it was not an option 
for  the  country  and  the  people  to  go  back  to  war.  It 
took this decision in order to allow peace and stability 
to  prevail  in  the  country,  as  well  as  for  the  SPLA-IO 
to  have  a  partner  in  the  implementation  of  the  peace 
agreement.  To  that  end,  a  new  leader  for  SPLA-IO 
was  elected.  Accordingly,  I  am  here  representing  my 
country as its first Vice-President. We are determined 
this time — more than before — to move our country 
forward  in  peace  and  development  with  a  view  to 
averting the suffering of our people.
At  this  point,  I  would  like  to  express  our  sincere 
gratitude  to  the  United  Nations  for  the  humanitarian 
assistance it has rendered, and continues to render, to 
our people. I would like also to thank IGAD, the AU, 
the  troika,  the  United  Nations,  the  EU  and  China  for 
16-29673
9/25
A/71/PV.18 
23/09/2016
their tireless efforts in ensuring that an agreement was 
reached to end the conflict and return South Sudan to a 
peaceful and stable path.
At  the  moment,  I  can  report  to  the  members  of 
the  Assembly  with  confidence  that  the  situation  in 
my  country  is  stable  and  peaceful,  my  Government 
is  functioning  and  life  is  returning  to  normal.  The 
Transitional  National  Legislative  Assembly 
is 
operational. Furthermore, it has been reconstituted and 
is continuing with its work, and cantonment areas for 
armies have been established. However, the effect of the 
conflict, coupled with the low global oil prices, has put 
our  economy  under  unprecedented  fiscal  stress,  thus 
creating hardship for the general public. Nevertheless, 
together with our development partners and friends, we 
are making every effort to address the economic shocks 
by  stabilizing  the  security  situation,  streamlining  our 
fiscal policies, improving income from non-oil revenue, 
engaging  in  agricultural,  mining,  tourism,  including 
ecotourism,  activities,  and  encouraging  investors  to 
come to South Sudan.
Another  important  milestone  is  that  South  Sudan 
and  the  Sudan  are  now  moving  quickly  to  ensure  the 
reconciliation of the two States and that their relations 
are normalized, so that the two States are able to better 
serve their citizens. There shall be no more harbouring 
of  negative  forces  from  either  country.  The  Sudan 
and  South  Sudan  are  also  working  closely  with  other 
countries in our region  — especially Ethiopia, Kenya 
and  Uganda  —  to  realize  the  vision  of  sustainable 
development by building infrastructure, such as power 
grids and roads, in order to improve the lives of citizens.
More  often  than  not,  we  have  taken  decisions 
individually,  and  sometimes  collectively,  to  try  to 
address  such  situations  as  preventing  a  country  from 
slipping  into  conflict,  while  urging  reforms  and 
democratization,  promoting  respect  for  human  rights 
and  so  on.  But  sometimes  the  results  of  such  actions 
may  actually  contribute  to  the  very  things  we  were 
trying to avoid in the first place.
Some leaders who may not agree with those efforts 
assert that those actions are unhelpful. The point I am 
trying to make in this regard is that efforts in some of 
our  countries,  which  we  are  taken  with  the  supposed 
intention of protecting civilians, advancing democracy 
and  promoting  respect  for  human  rights  and  justice, 
have not always produced the intended results. Rather, 
in  most  cases,  we  end  up  causing  displacement  and 
refugees.  I  have  the  inclination  to  believe  that  our 
problem  as  a  global  Organization  is  that  we  have  in 
many  cases  failed  or  refused  to  listen  to  views  from 
the countries whose peoples’ lives we want to improve.
The universal push to transform the world through 
the Sustainable Development Goals cannot be achieved 
without us listening to one another — whether we are 
large  nations  or  small,  whether  we  are  rich  countries 
or  poor,  developed  nations  or  developing  ones,  like 
mine,  South  Sudan.  What  happens  in  one  part  of  the 
world affects other parts of the world. Therefore, it is 
imperative  that  we  work  together  to  resolve  critical 
issues  that  affect  our  planet,  such  as,  inter  alia, 
terrorism, conflicts, migration, climate change, nuclear 
proliferation, racism and food insecurity. These issues 
require  collective  and  cooperative  action  if  we  are  to 
make the world a better place for all of us. If we want to 
transform our world, then all of us must be made to feel 
that we all belong to it, as a matter of right and obligation, 
and we must work as true partners in its transformation. 
The attitudes of superiority and patronage, disguised as 
promoting democracy, human rights and freedom and 
justice, can easily lead to serious crises in the form of 
resistance from affected parties.
We in South Sudan believe in dialogue and respect 
for each other as we engage in resolving problems. And 
as the Security Council continues to strive to maintain 
world  peace  and  order,  as  provided  for  in  Articles 
23  and  24  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  we 
in  South  Sudan  want  to  be  active  participants  in  the 
achievement  of  these  noble  goals.  We  want  peace  in 
South  Sudan  and  the  world  at  large,  not  only  for  the 
present generation but also for future generations. Our 
actions as individual countries or as States Members of 
the United Nations should therefore be seen to promote 
peace,  and  not  create  more  conflicts.  In  our  recent 
history, our actions have created more suffering than it 
has solved problems. That should not be the case if we 
want to be true to the ideals and principles set forth in 
the United Nations Charter.
implementation 
I want to assure the Assembly that our Government 
has  consented  to  Security  Council  resolution  2304 
(2016).  The  resolution’s 
is  being 
discussed by the United Nations Mission in the Republic 
of  South  Sudan  (UNMISS),  the  South  Sudanese 
Transitional  Government  of  National  Unity  and  other 
countries  in  the  region.  My  Government’s  position  is 
that we have to engage more with the United Nations on 
the details of the resolution’s implementation in order 
10/25 
16-29673
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.18
to avoid derailing national healing and reconciliation. 
External intervention often negatively affects internal 
reconciliation.  The  tasks  of  the  Regional  Protection 
Force  can  be  advanced  through  collaboration  and 
cooperation with the Transitional Government.
Last but not least, the Republic of South Sudan will 
cooperate  with  UNMISS,  regional  bodies,  IGAD,  the 
East African Community, the AU, the troika, the EU and 
all of our friends in our journey towards recovery from 
the tragedy that befell us. We promise to bring peace and 
justice and to rebuild strong and credible institutions in 
our country. It is our plan to move the country forward 
on its major development projects — roads and bridges, 
new cities, power grids, education and health — and in 
modernizing agriculture, so that we can feed our people. 
We are going to commit our endowed resources of oil, 
minerals, human capital and others to the development 
of  the  youngest  nation  in  the  world.  We  call  upon 
our  partners  for  support,  cooperation,  consultation 
and  dialogue  as  we  partner  together  in  transforming 
our  world  through  the  attainment  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals by 2030.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President of the Republic of South Sudan for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Taban Deng Gai, Vice-President of the Republic 
of South Sudan, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Moisés Omar Halleslevens 
Acevedo, Vice-President of the Republic 
of Nicaragua
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Vice 
President of the Republic of Nicaragua.
Mr.  Moisés  Omar  Halleslevens  Acevedo, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Nicaragua, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Moisés 
Omar  Halleslevens  Acevedo,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Nicaragua, and inviting him to address the 
Assembly.
Mr.  Acevedo  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
bring greetings from the people of Nicaragua and from 
our  President,  Comandante  Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra. 
We are very pleased to see a brother from Fiji, a Pacific 
island State, preside over the General Assembly for the 
very first time. He can count on Nicaragua’s support.
A year ago, the international community agreed to 
launch the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
which offers us a historic opportunity to transform our 
planet and fight for a just world order so that together, 
in  peace,  solidarity  and  complementarity,  we  may 
advocate  for  the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals.
alike, 
especially 
in  vulnerable 
Endemic  poverty  and  inequality  have  become 
more noticeable than ever in developing and developed 
countries 
and 
marginalized  groups,  including  peoples  living  under 
colonial  occupation  and  foreign  intervention.  It  is 
urgent that we eradicate colonialism and end military 
interventions and aggressions in order to fully realize 
the  right  of  our  peoples  to  self-determination  and 
development.
The  right  to  development  is  a  right  of  all.  The 
international  community  has  yet  to  answer  for  the 
millions of human beings to whom that right remains a 
dream. Developed countries must comply once and for all 
with their commitments regarding official development 
assistance  by  providing  additional,  predictable  and 
sufficient financial resources. Nicaragua recognizes the 
need to build peaceful, just and inclusive societies that 
provide equal access to social justice based on respect 
for human rights, including the right to development.
Much  has  been  said  in  recent  days  about  climate 
change.  The  World  Meteorological  Organization 
projects  that  2016  is  heading  towards  breaking  all 
temperature  records  since  records  have  been  kept, 
which makes it clear that the agreements reached at the 
twenty-first session of the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (COP21) in Paris failed 
to establish a firm starting point to address the greatest 
challenge facing the planet. The voluntary, non-binding 
formula will lead to an increase in global temperature 
of 3°C or more, which will have catastrophic effects on 
highly vulnerable countries.
Many of us feel that what was agreed in Paris is not 
sufficient ,and we urge more ambitious actions. We note 
with great concern the worldwide record temperatures 
and little ambition to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, 
which  corroborates  Nicaragua  position’s  at  COP21. 
Nicaragua,  adhering  to  international  law  and  taking 
into  account  the  principle  of  damage  recovery,  has 
16-29673
11/25
A/71/PV.18 
23/09/2016
demanded  a  global  compensation  policy  in  order  to 
address that phenomenon.
We take this opportunity to reiterate our support for 
the just aspirations of the Republic of China on Taiwan 
for greater participation in United Nations specialized 
agencies, in accordance with the demands and needs of 
that  brotherly  nation  of  23  million  inhabitants,  which 
should not be excluded from the Organization.
We  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  have 
reiterated  our  desire  to  assert  ourselves  as  a  zone  of 
peace  and  fair  development  in  order  to  achieve  firm 
and  lasting  peace  and  social  justice  through  dialogue 
and understanding. We are pleased at and welcome the 
restoration  of  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States  of  America.  However,  it  is  disappointing  to 
note the intensification of measures that maintain the 
cruel,  inhuman  and  criminal  economic,  financial  and 
commercial blockade against Cuba.
We reiterate our congratulations to the Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela  on  having  recently  assumed 
the  leadership  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement.  In  that 
vein,  we  offer  our  full  support  to  President  Nicolas 
Maduro Moros and his legitimate Government, which 
continues  to  be  the  victim  of  aggression,  assault  and 
destabilizing  policies  from  the  exterior,  coordinated 
with  anti-democratic  and  oligarchic  sectors  from  the 
past.
We  once  again  hail  the  signing  of  the  peace 
agreements in Colombia between the Government and 
the  Fuerzas  Armadas  Revolucionarias  de  Colombia, 
and offer our best wishes for the peace agreements to 
prevail and be implemented.
Puerto Rico is Latin American and Caribbean. We 
demand  that  the  colonial  Power  resolve  this  situation 
through dialogue and negotiation. We call on the United 
States  of  America  to  release  the  Puerto  Rican  patriot 
Oscar López Rivera as a humanitarian gesture.
We  express  our  solidarity  and  support  for  the 
legitimate  rights  of  the  Argentine  Republic  in  the 
sovereignty  dispute  over  the  Malvinas  Islands,  South 
Georgia  Islands,  South  Sandwich  Islands  and  the 
surrounding  maritime  areas.  The  United  Kingdom 
must  immediately  comply  with  the  relevant  United 
Nations resolutions and resume direct negotiations with 
Argentina.
We  reiterate  our  solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
people in their just struggle for an independent State, 
with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  We  demand  the 
immediate return of all Arab and Palestinian territories 
currently occupied by Israel. 
We welcome and resolve to maintain our solidarity 
with the people of Western Sahara in their fight under 
the leadership of the Polisario Front.
We reiterate our full solidarity with the Government 
and people of Syria in their fight against international 
terrorism in defence of their sovereignty and territorial 
integrity.  We  stress  the  need  for  a  political  solution 
negotiated  among  Syrians  and  an  end  to  foreign 
intervention,  including  the  funding  and  delivery  of 
weapons to terrorist groups. It has pained us to witness 
the proliferation of terrorist attacks against peoples and 
Governments.  We  condemn  terrorism  in  all  its  forms 
and manifestations. 
Nicaragua will always promote its policy of peace, 
unity and understanding among nations, for political and 
negotiated solutions to conflicts and for the right of our 
peoples  to  achieve  sustainable  development  and  well-
being. As current holder of the presidency pro tempore 
of  the  Central  American  Integration  System,  we  are 
reinforcing  our  integration  in  all  fields  and  working 
together  to  combat  the  scourge  of  drug  trafficking 
and  organized  crime.  Together  with  El  Salvador  and 
Honduras, we are striving to make the Gulf of Fonseca 
a zone of peace and development.
We highlight the need to eradicate threats to civic 
security  and  social  order  in  our  region  with  a  strong 
and  coordinated  strategy  against  organized  crime 
and  its  ramifications.  In  Nicaragua,  our  policies  are 
focused  on  the  human  individual  and  the  Nicaraguan 
family. Our people are ratifying their confidence in our 
socialist  Christian  model  of  solidarity,  which  ensures 
that our lives continue to improve in a safe and stable 
manner,  in  growth  and  in  peace  with  our  people  as 
principal  actors.  Through  good  governance,  we  have 
prioritized economic growth, job growth, the reduction 
of poverty and inequality, the strengthening of gender 
equality  and  macroeconomic  stability  in  sovereignity 
and security in harmony with the Earth. 
Nicaragua  has  been  recognized  by  the  World 
Economic  Forum  as  one  of  the  most  successful 
countries in terms of gender equality and as the safest 
country  in  Central  America  and  one  of  the  safest  in 
Latin  America.  As  one  of  the  three  safest  countries 
for investment, we have sustained economic growth of 
approximately 5 per cent of our gross domestic product 
12/25 
16-29673
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.18
in  the  past  five  years.  We  have  achieved  this  success 
through a model of partnership, dialogue and consensus 
under the leadership of our Government, working with 
the private sector and the workers themselves. 
We reject the proposals and initiatives put forth by 
the House of Representatives and Senate of the United 
States, as they constitute violations of international law 
and a breach of the Charter of the United Nations. Those 
legislative bodies have been involved in interventionist 
policy  throughout  history  and  interfered  in  our  own 
sovereign  political,  economic  and  social  processes. 
This interference is notably more intense in the election 
season.
We in Nicaragua shall continue to strengthen peace, 
stability,  governability  and  progress  through  such 
unprecedented proposals as our model of partnership, 
dialogue  and  consensus,  which  enjoys  constitutional 
status and has helped us to mobilize the economy and 
achieve important progress in the fight against poverty. 
The  National  Reconciliation  and  Unity  Government 
reiterates  its  firm  commitment  to  this  model,  which 
unites us around the common good and reaffirms our 
unwavering commitment to peace, security, tranquility 
and  democracy.  In  the  weeks  prior  to  our  general 
elections, our people have demonstrated their support 
with high approval ratings and willingness to participate 
in  the  elections  of  6  November  with  confidence  and 
hope. 
Nicaragua will continue to fight for a better world 
of values, where human beings strive for a sustainable, 
just,  equitative,  safe  and  sovereign  development;  and 
where the advances of science and technology, reflected 
in all areas of our lives, are accessible and shared by 
all.  We  will  be  able  to  make  our  world  a  better  one 
only once we ourselves assume, along with family and 
society, a steadfast commitment to peace and equality 
among nations and their respective societies.
I  conclude  by  declaring  my  hope  that  peace  may 
prevail. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Nicaragua  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Moisés  Omar  Halleslevens  Acevedo, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Nicaragua, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Thongloun Sisoulith, Prime 
Minister of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
Mr. Thongloun Sisoulith, Prime Minister of the Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic, was escorted to the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  French):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Thongloun  Sisoulith,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the Assembly.
Mr. Sisoulith (Lao People’s Democratic Republic) 
(spoke in Lao; English interpretation provided by the 
delegation):  First,  on  behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, I extend my sincere 
congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson 
on his election as President of the General Assembly at 
its seventy-first session. It is my firm belief that, with 
his wealth of experience, he will guide this session of 
the  General  Assembly  with  great  success.  We  stand 
ready to offer him our full support and cooperation in 
the discharge of his noble duties.
My  profound  congratulations  also  go  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  on  the  successful 
completion  of  his  duties  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventieth session. 
I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  commend  His 
Excellency  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his 
active and tireless efforts to fulfil the United Nations 
mission  and  objectives  on  many  fronts  over  the  past 
decade.
The  international  community  remains  concerned 
about  various  challenges  and  developments  in  many 
regions of the world. To name but a few, terrorism and 
extremism remain a threat to regional and global peace 
and  security;  more  than  800  million  people  all  over 
the  world  still  live  in  extreme  poverty;  while  natural 
disasters and climate change have inflicted tremendous 
damage on social and economic development in various 
parts of the world. At the same time, the global economy 
is still fragile and growing only slowly. 
Against 
that  backdrop, 
in 
the 
international  community  has  made  collective  efforts 
those  challenges  by 
to  respond 
to  and  address 
recent  years 
16-29673
13/25
A/71/PV.18 
23/09/2016
adopting various measures and mechanisms, including 
cooperation frameworks such as the Sendai Framework 
for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, the Addis Ababa 
Action Agenda for financing sustainable development, 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change and the Programmes of 
Action  for  the  least-developed  countries,  landlocked 
developing  countries  and  small  island  developing 
States.
In that regard, I am of the view that it is imperative 
for  us  to  be  resolute  in  translating  our  political 
commitment  into  concrete  action,  while  enhancing 
mutual  trust,  cooperation  and  assistance  in  order  to 
collectively address our challenges. We must continue 
to adhere to the fundamental principles of the United 
Nations in resolving regional and international conflicts 
by  peaceful  means,  while  promoting  development 
cooperation  with  a  focus  on  implementing  the  2030 
Agenda. At the same time, the United Nations, which 
has  a  duty  to  encourage  and  assist  Member  States 
in 
improve 
its  mechanisms  and  working  methods  to  enable  it 
to  respond  to  challenges  and  carry  out  those  duties 
effectively.
implementing  such  measures,  should 
South-East  Asia  continues  to  enjoy  peace  and 
stability, making for an environment that is conducive not 
only to the socioeconomic development of the countries 
of the region but also to enhancing regional cooperation 
in  the  new  era  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations  (ASEAN)  Community  —  post-31  December 
2015 — as well as strengthening cooperation between 
ASEAN  and  its  external  partners,  with  the  aim  of 
further  consolidating  and  advancing  the  ASEAN 
Community 
its  Vision  2025 
initiative  through  our  ASEAN-initiated  frameworks. 
We hope that the international community, particularly 
ASEAN’s dialogue partners and other external parties, 
will continue to support ASEAN and its central position 
in the evolving regional architecture.
in  accordance  with 
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  is  proud 
and  honoured  to  assume  the  chairship  of  ASEAN  in 
2016, the first year of the ASEAN Community. In that 
spirit,  we  have  introduced  the  theme  “Turning  vision 
into reality for a dynamic ASEAN Community”, aimed 
at  realizing  Vision  2025.  The  ASEAN  summits,  and 
the  related  summits  concluded  earlier  this  month, 
have  adopted  many  important  documents  related  to 
cooperation  within  ASEAN  and  between  ASEAN 
and  its  external  partners.  All  of  that  has  contributed 
significantly  to  our  common  cause  of  maintaining 
and promoting peace, stability and cooperation in the 
region and the world at large, as well as of achieving 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs).  The  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic  takes  this  opportunity 
to  express  its  sincere  thanks  and  appreciation  to  the 
international  community,  particularly  the  ASEAN 
member  States  and  dialogue  partners,  for  the  kind 
cooperation and support they have given our ASEAN 
chairship this year.
This has been the first year of the implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
including  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  In  that 
regard,  I  would  commend  the  President  on  his  choice 
for  this  session  of  the  Assembly  of  the  theme  “The 
Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a  universal  push  to 
transform our world”, a theme that responds to our real 
situation. I believe that we have to deepen understanding 
of the SDGs at the national, regional and international 
levels  in  order  to  integrate  them  into  our  national 
development  plans  and  mobilize  sufficient  resources 
for effectively implementing the 2030 Agenda. We must 
also ensure a peaceful, stable environment, which is a 
shared  aspiration  for  humankind  and  consistent  with 
the United Nations principles of peace, friendship and 
development  cooperation,  aimed  at  ensuring  that  we, 
the peoples, live together in peace and dignity.
Early  this  year,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic  held  elections  to  the  National  Assembly, 
which  subsequently  approved  a  new  Government. 
The Government has continued to pursue our policies 
on  national  development  and  has  mainstreamed  the 
SDGs into its eighth five-year national socioeconomic 
development  plan  for  2016  to  2020,  its  development 
strategy  for  2025  and  Vision  2030.  We  consider 
implementation  of  the  SDGs  to  be  an  international 
obligation that will not only contribute to realizing the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  but  will 
also  bring  development  benefits  to  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic. To that end, our Government is 
focusing on achieving the goals of the aforementioned 
development  initiatives,  which  include,  among  other 
things,  working  on  green  growth  and  sustainable 
development,  maintaining  steady  economic  growth, 
continuing  to  reduce  poverty  and  graduating  from 
least-developed-country status.
In  addition  to  the  17  SDGs,  the  Lao  Government 
has  adopted  a  national,  eighteenth  SDG  —  keeping 
lives safe from unexploded ordnance (UXO). I myself, 
14/25 
16-29673
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.18
together with Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, formally 
launched  the  SDG  on  7  September  in  Vientiane.  Its 
targets  are  to  ensure  that  residual  UXO  activities  are 
undertaken by 2030 and all known UXO contamination 
is cleared in high-priority areas and all villages defined 
as poor; that annual casualties from UXO accidents are 
eliminated as far as possible; and that the needs of all 
identified UXO survivors and victims are met.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  is  a  least-
developed  and  landlocked  country  that  continues  to 
face  many  challenges  and  obstacles  in  developing 
infrastructure and quality human resources, among other 
things, that require the continued support and assistance 
of the international community. I am confident that with 
the Lao Government’s determination, coupled with the 
international  community’s  continued  cooperation  and 
assistance, we will be able to achieve those goals.
Climate  change  and  more  frequent  and  severe 
natural disasters have affected the national development 
and livelihoods of peoples all over the world. That poses 
a major challenge that no single country alone is able to 
address. Recognizing the importance of this issue, the 
Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
has  formally  joined  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change.  I  very  much  hope  that  the  Paris  Agreement 
will  enter  into  force  by  the  end  of  this  year  and  will 
be  effectively  implemented.  For  its  part,  the  Lao 
Government  has  submitted  its  nationally  determined 
contributions  and  integrated  climate  change,  natural 
disaster risk reduction and management into its national 
socioeconomic development plan.
Lessons from the past have shown that the use of 
armed  forces  to  resolve  conflicts,  which  occurred  in 
different  regions  of  the  world,  brings  only  enormous 
devastation to humankind, such as great losses in lives 
and  property,  resulting  in  poverty,  hunger  and  other 
negative impacts. This leads to an escalation of crimes 
and  terrorist  attacks.  Against  that  backdrop,  the  Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic calls on the international 
community to demonstrate the political will to address 
conflicts  in  various  parts  of  the  world  by  peaceful 
means,  which  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
has consistently supported.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  always 
hopes that the parties concerned will resolve the issue 
of Palestine by peaceful means, with a view to creating 
two independent States, Palestine and Israel, living side 
by side in peace.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  welcomes 
the  re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  between 
the United States of America and the Republic of Cuba, 
and expresses its strong hope that such relations will be 
further enhanced, leading to the lifting of the embargo 
against the Republic of Cuba in the near future.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that the United 
Nations  must  be  further  strengthened,  especially  in 
terms  of  its  effectiveness  in  addressing  important 
global issues. All States Members of the United Nations 
should  extend  full  support  and  cooperation  and  fulfil 
their  international  obligations  in  order  to  address 
these enormous global challenges, and in particular to 
implement the SDGs in a timely and effective manner. 
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  reiterates 
its  firm  commitment  and  determination  to  continue 
working  closely  with  the  international  community  to 
build  a  more  secure,  peaceful,  just  and  prosperous 
world.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr. Thongloun Sisoulith, Prime Minister of the Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic, was escorted from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Andrew Holness, Prime 
Minister and Minister of Defence, Economic 
Growth and Job Creation of Jamaica
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  of  Defence,  Economic  Growth 
and Job Creation of Jamaica.
Mr. Andrew Holness, Prime Minister and Minister 
of Defence, Economic Growth and Job Creation of 
Jamaica, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Andrew 
Holness,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of  Defence, 
Economic  Growth  and  Job  Creation  of  Jamaica,  and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Holness (Jamaica): I am honoured to join fellow 
leaders  at  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first 
session, which affords us an opportunity to undertake 
the most effective global response to the challenges for 
16-29673
15/25
A/71/PV.18 
23/09/2016
which  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
was elaborated.
I congratulate Mr. Peter Thomson on his assumption 
of the presidency for this session, and am particularly 
pleased  that  the  representative  of  a  small  island 
developing State is presiding over our Assembly. I am 
confident that his deliberations during this session will 
translate  into  meaningful  commitments  and  actions 
under his able leadership. 
thank 
Let  me 
the  Secretary-General  for  his 
contribution  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  over 
the  past  10  years.  He  is  to  be  commended  for  his 
tireless  efforts  in  guiding  the  Organization,  allowing 
it to remain at the forefront of international dialogue, 
consensus-building and cooperation.
With the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  in  September  last  year,  we,  as  a  global 
community, have committed ourselves to securing the 
well-being of all peoples. Jamaica is mindful, however, 
that  for  this  outcome  to  be  realized,  national  efforts 
must be complemented by global partnerships. Indeed, 
we  are  conscious  that  transforming  our  world  is  the 
responsibility of all of us — of every nation and every 
individual. Under my leadership, despite the challenges, 
we in Jamaica are fully committed and are laying the 
foundation for accelerated, sustained economic growth.
Like  many  other  countries,  our  path  towards 
sustainable  development  has  been  hindered  by  years 
of  low  growth,  crippling  national  debt  and  high 
unemployment,  which  have  been  exacerbated  by  our 
vulnerability  to  natural  hazards  and  other  exogenous 
shocks.  Consistent  with  the  priorities  of  Vision  2030 
Jamaica and the global Sustainable Development Goals, 
my Government is implementing strategies to achieve 
economic  growth,  job  creation,  security  and  poverty 
alleviation. Those are our overriding objectives for the 
next  four  years.  We  are  forging  stronger  partnerships 
with  our  private  sector  and  undertaking  structural 
reforms  to  foster  an  enabling  business  environment, 
which will make Jamaica a more attractive destination 
for  local  and  foreign  direct  investment.  We  are  also 
resolute in our commitment to ensuring that economic 
activity is undertaken in a manner that not only protects 
and  preserves  our  natural  environment,  but  that  also 
develops  our  most  important  asset  —  the  people  of 
Jamaica.  We  will  also  continue  to  develop  a  social 
protection network that is essential to safeguarding the 
welfare of the most vulnerable in our society.
While  we  pursue  a  self-reliant  path,  I  must  bring 
to the attention of the General Assembly a matter that 
requires  international  cooperation.  Highly  indebted 
middle-income  countries  (HIMIC)  like  Jamaica  are 
poised  for  economic  transition  with  the  attainment  of 
relatively high levels of health and education. However, 
in a climate of historically low economic growth, this 
potential is gravely threatened by our having to choose 
between debt repayment and catalytic growth spending.
Jamaica  has  no  choice.  Jamaica  must  repay  its 
debts,  and  we  are  repaying  our  debts.  However,  the 
consequence of this is that no resources are available for 
the Government to make the kinds of public investment 
that stimulate economic growth. In addition, spending 
on  critical  issues,  such  as  security  —  the  absence  of 
which  negatively  impacts  growth  —  is  compromised. 
In  these  circumstances,  developing  countries  would 
previously  be  able  to  tap  into  development  assistance 
that  can  be  used  for  growth-inducing  countercyclical 
investment in infrastructure, which in turn strengthens 
debt-repayment 
arbitrary 
classification,  on  the  basis  of  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP)  per  capita,  precludes  HIMIC  countries  from 
accessing  such  resources.  The  problem  is  that  while 
GDP per capita gives an indication of average incomes, 
it says nothing about a country’s stock of wealth, nor 
does it take into account the vulnerabilities that some 
countries face.
However, 
capacity. 
Furthermore,  some  HIMIC  countries  such  as 
Jamaica have made deep structural and fiscal reforms 
to  improve  fiscal  management  and  achieve  debt 
sustainability,  ensuring  that  we  will  never  return  to 
unsustainably  high  levels  of  debt.  However,  in  the 
absence of an abundance of unused spare capacity in our 
economies,  these  reforms  will  not  immediately  kick-
start the growth cycle. Instead, new investment needs 
to  follow  at  a  scale  and  velocity  that  are  difficult  to 
undertake without the full engagement of international 
development  institutions.  This  creates  the  prospect 
of a HIMIC trap — a situation where countries are at 
the cusp of transitioning but are stalled and at risk of 
reversal. 
The  presumption 
that  middle-income  country 
status obviates the need for ongoing access to official 
development  assistance  and  concessional  financing 
is not supported by empirical evidence. The potential 
HIMIC  trap  threatens  hard-won  development  gains 
and  countries  such  as  ours  have  for  some  time  been 
highlighting this problem. Yet the prospect of a HIMIC 
16/25 
16-29673
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.18
trap  has  not  yet  triggered  a  change  in  the  mindset  of 
those  who  preside  over  the  decision-making  process 
that  directly  influences  our  global,  economic  and 
financial outlook. I re-emphasize that a review of this 
broad categorization of countries, based solely on GDP 
per  capita,  must  be  undertaken,  as  this  measure,  in 
isolation, fails to fully and accurately take account of 
added vulnerabilities and levels of indebtedness. There 
are various other measures of development that should 
be taken into account.
Several  years  ago,  the  international  community 
nobly responded to the problem of unsustainable debt 
in  poor  countries  through  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor 
Countries Debt Initiative, guided by the principle that 
no poor country should face a debt burden that it cannot 
manage. We supported this then, and we support it now 
on a similar principle for highly indebted middle-income 
countries. 
However,  the  time  has  come  for  the  international 
community  to  similarly  converge  around  a  HIMIC 
initiative,  underpinned  by  the  principle  that  highly 
indebted countries that have undiversifiable structural 
vulnerabilities,  such  as  small  size  or  susceptibility  to 
the effects of climate change, and that responsibly and 
faithfully service their debt should be facilitated with 
assistance in the form of investment, favourable trade, 
technology transfer, security cooperation and energy.
To  qualify  for  inclusion  in  the  HIMIC  initiative, 
a  country,  in  addition  to  being  a  highly  indebted 
middle-income  country,  should  have  undiversifiable 
structural  vulnerabilities  and  a  demonstrated  track 
record  of  commitment  to  economic,  fiscal  and  social 
reform  programmes  supported  by  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  and  the  World  Bank.  The  collective 
size  of  the  problem  is  such  that  a  HIMIC  initiative 
would  not  burden  the  international  system.  However, 
the  potential  impact  of  assisting  these  countries  in 
transitioning would put more countries in a position to 
make greater contributions to the international system 
in the near future.
Jamaica  is  pursuing  reforms  to  enhance  the 
efficiency of the public sector, improving its customer 
service  delivery,  pursuing  economies  of  scale, 
reducing  duplication  and  aligning  the  public  sector 
towards  enabling  and  facilitating  economic  growth 
and  development.  While  we  pursue  reforms  aimed  at 
boosting fiscal sustainability and growth, we are also 
looking  at  innovative  ways  to  match  our  financing 
needs with sustainable development objectives.
Jamaica  will  work  with  development  partners  to 
pursue  debt-for-climate-change  swaps.  This  holds  the 
potential  of  providing  bilateral  and  multilateral  relief 
for climate change adaptation and mitigation initiatives. 
Such  a  mechanism  has  the  potential  to  provide  fiscal 
relief while helping to unlock pledged climate financing 
to  fund  adaptation  and  mitigation  initiatives.  As  a 
country vulnerable to climate, Jamaica will play its part 
to  close  the  climate  implementation  gap,  while  at  the 
same time addressing our debt overhang. This has the 
potential to be a ground-breaking approach.
Peace and security are a Sustainable Development 
Goal.  They  is  often  spoken  about  in  the  context  of 
peace between States. However, peace within States is 
just as important. Jamaica, like much of the Caribbean 
and Central America, is challenged by crime. This has 
had  a  destructive  impact  on  families  —  particularly 
poor families — deterred investment and discouraged 
businesses. In sections of Jamaica crime threatens the 
attainment  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
Tackling crime is a priority for our Government. While 
the Jamaican Government will do its part, the common 
problem we face in our region requires deeper security 
cooperation.
The international community must also move with 
greater  alacrity  towards  eradicating  the  illicit  trade 
in  small  arms  and  light  weapons.  Jamaica  is  acutely 
aware  of  the  destruction  that  can  be  wrought  as  a 
result of easy access to small arms and light weapons, 
particularly  when  in  the  possession  of  sophisticated 
networks  of  organized  criminal  groups.  Our  strategic 
location,  which  is  extremely  favourable  for  trade  and 
logistics,  also  provides  a  potential  transit  point  for 
illicit activities. 
It  is  this  reality  that  has  defined  and  propelled 
our  participation  in  a  range  of  bilateral,  regional  and 
multilateral  arrangements  aimed  at  restricting  the 
source, means and capabilities that have fuelled these 
dangerous  relationships,  made  even  more  destructive 
through  links  to  the  drug  trade.  Jamaica  has  been  a 
staunch supporter of the Arms Trade Treaty, and we are 
working towards its full and effective implementation. 
We  call  on  all  arms-exporting  countries  to  abide  by 
their  legally  binding  obligations  under  the  Treaty. 
Jamaica  was  honoured  to  have  chaired  the  recently 
convened Sixth Biennial Meeting of States to consider 
16-29673
17/25
A/71/PV.18 
23/09/2016
the  Implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  to 
Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small 
Arms and Light Weapons in All its Aspects. 
We need to effectively address the emerging crisis 
of  the  withdrawal  of  correspondent  banking  services 
from  certain  financial  institutions  in  the  Caribbean. 
De-risking threatens our economies. It tends to hinder 
our  participation  in  the  global  financial  system  and 
in  international  trade,  which  in  turn  creates  serious 
obstacles  to  our  efforts  to  promote  investment.  We 
respect  and  have  been  complying  with  financial 
regulatory  standards  and  working  within  a  rules-
based,  multilateral  trade  and  financial  system.  Trade 
represents  70  per  cent  of  the  Jamaican  economy  and 
de-risking measures therefore threaten our integration 
and  economic  viability.  We 
therefore  encourage 
take  an  approach 
our 
to 
that  establishes  principles  for  ensuring 
inclusive 
development strategies based on a country’s ability to 
engage in vibrant, dynamic international trade.
international  partners 
In the area of global trade, Jamaica realizes that the 
continued  economic  embargo  of  our  sister  Caribbean 
country,  Cuba,  is  out  of  step  with  the  recent  actions 
that have been taken to re-establish diplomatic relations 
between Cuba and the United States. We therefore urge 
that it be lifted as soon as possible.
The hallmark of any civilized society is how it treats 
its  most  vulnerable  members.  We  must  address  the 
issue of preventing violence against them, particularly 
our  women  and  children,  as  a  priority.  We  must  seek 
to empower our women to realize their full potential. 
Jamaica  has  a  long  track  record  of  championing  the 
rights of women and will continue to advocate for full 
implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform 
for Action. Nor can we leave our children behind. If they 
are  to  realize  their  full  potential,  they  must  be  given 
the opportunity to live in an environment that is free 
from fear and violence. That resolve is what undergirds 
our support for the Global Partnership to End Violence 
against Children.
The 
international  community  must  scale  up 
cooperation  in  order  to  respond  to  the  growing  and 
deepening  health  crises  that  have  gripped  our  world. 
Jamaica,  like  many  other  countries,  continues  to 
struggle  with  preventing  and  controlling  the  common 
risk 
the  prevalence  of 
non-communicable  and  new  and  emerging  diseases. 
The emerging and resurgent epidemics associated with 
factors  associated  with 
the transnational movement of microbes such as Ebola, 
Zika and chikungunya represent a severe challenge for 
national  budgets.  The  recently  concluded  high-level 
meeting  on  antimicrobial  resistance  and  HIV/AIDS 
also highlighted another problem for the global health 
situation that must be halted if we are to ensure that our 
citizens have full and productive lives.
the 
to  climate  change  and 
Another issue that demands continued cooperation 
at  the  global,  regional  and  national  levels  is  our 
response 
increasing 
occurrence  of  natural  disasters,  including  extreme 
weather-related phenomena. Such events, increasingly 
spurred  by  man-made  activity,  continue  to  be  a  clear 
and  present  danger  for  many  societies,  particularly 
small island developing States. Recent experience has 
shown us that no country or group of countries can be 
considered to be beyond the reach of such events. The 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change, under the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
and the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 
provide us with a blueprint for action to ensure that our 
development  efforts  do  not  compromise  the  ability  of 
future generations to enjoy a world in which their needs 
can be adequately met. I can assure the Assembly that 
Jamaica  remains  committed  to  the  implementation  of 
those agreements and will work to continue the effective 
implementation of the commitments they contain.
As  the  host  country  for  the  International  Seabed 
Authority,  we  attach  great  importance  to  matters 
pertaining  to  the  law  of  the  sea.  Jamaica  supports 
the  development  of  a  legally  binding  international 
instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of 
marine  biological  diversity  in  areas  beyond  national 
jurisdiction,  and 
the 
negotiations on such an instrument.
is  actively  participating 
in 
Jamaica  has  had  a  long  and  fruitful  association 
with the United Nations that we value greatly. We are 
firm  in  our  commitment  to  multilateralism  and  the 
continued strengthening of the Organization. We stand 
on the threshold of a world of possibilities, a world in 
which all can be given the opportunity to realize their 
full potential and where every nation State can better 
provide  for  the  well-being  of  its  citizens.  We  must 
not  just  live  up  to  that  expectation;  we  must  surpass 
it. At this seventy-first session of the Assembly, let us 
recommit to the noble ideals of this Organization and its 
Charter, and to achieving the goals of the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  Let  us  join  together,  in 
18/25 
16-29673
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.18
the spirit of the national pledge of Jamaica, to advance 
the welfare of the whole human race.
open  invitation  to  the  incoming  Secretary-General  to 
consider visiting the Hapi Isles.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  of  Defence,  Economic  Growth 
and  Job  Creation  of  Jamaica  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr. Andrew Holness, Prime Minister and Minister 
of Defence, Economic Growth and Job Creation of 
Jamaica, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Manasseh Sogavare, Prime 
Minister of Solomon Islands
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Solomon Islands.
Mr.  Manasseh  Sogavare,  Prime  Minister  of 
Solomon Islands, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  French):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Manasseh  Sogavare,  Prime  Minister  of  Solomon 
Islands, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Sogavare (Solomon Islands): At this seventy-
first  session,  it  is  indeed  an  honour  to  see  a  fellow 
Pacific islander elected for the first time as President 
of  the  General  Assembly.  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  brings 
to the position qualities of experience, personality and 
leadership that are known in this Hall. Solomon Islands 
would like to assure him of our support and cooperation 
during  his  term  in  office,  and  we  look  forward  to 
working with him on our common agenda as one of his 
Vice-Presidents.
term 
Our  appreciation  goes 
to  his  predecessor, 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  whose 
in  office 
coincided  with  the  adoptions  of  three  development 
frameworks  —  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development and their Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs), the Addis Ababa Action Agenda and the Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  President  Lykketoft 
worked  tirelessly  to  strengthen  the  role  and  authority 
of  the  General  Assembly.  He  put  in  place  an  open, 
inclusive  and  transparent  process  for  selecting  the 
Secretary-General,  and  our  new  Secretary-General  is 
expected to take up office in January 2017. For the first 
time  in  70  years,  I  believe,  the  Assembly  interacted 
with all the candidates for the position. We wish all of 
them the best in their bid for the position and leave an 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon’s  tenure  as  Secretary-General 
comes to a close at the end of this year. We join others 
in  paying  tribute  to  his  exemplary  leadership  of  our 
Organization.  Over  the  years,  he  has  worked  for  the 
benefit of all and has been a voice of reason, particularly 
on the issue of climate change. He remains the first and 
only Secretary-General to visit Solomon Islands since 
we  joined  this  body  38  years  ago.  It  was  also  during 
his  tenure  that  the  United  Nations  country  presence 
in  Solomon  Islands  was  upgraded.  We  have  every 
confidence that his successor can further upgrade that 
presence to the status of a full-fledged country office. 
We  remain  steadfast  in  our  commitment  to  working 
with the Secretary-General during the remaining four 
months  of  his  term  and  thank  him  for  his  sterling 
service to Solomon Islands and humankind.
Last year was one of agreements and the adoption 
of frameworks; this year must be about operationalizing 
the  agreements  and  implementing  the  frameworks.  In 
that  regard,  Solomon  Islands  welcomes  the  theme  of 
this  session,  “The  Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a 
universal push to transform our world”. We commend the 
President for putting together an SDG implementation 
team  in  his  Office  and  look  forward  to  working  with 
him  on  unlocking  the  means  of  implementation  so 
as  to  realize  full  and  effective  implementation  of  the 
SDGs. I am indeed proud to say that Solomon Islands 
has  begun  the  work  of  domesticating  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  by  integrating  them  into  our 
national development strategy for 2016 to 2035, which 
provides  a  clear,  coherent  and  harmonized  whole-of-
Government  approach  to  delivering  on  our  national 
policies and programmes.
The high-level meetings held this week to address 
the issue of large movements of refugees and migrants 
were also an opportunity to seriously examine the issue 
of  climate-displaced  populations  and  environmental 
migrants. The international community must do more 
by establishing a global mechanism to help small island 
developing States (SIDS) manage populations displaced 
by climate change. The treaties in effect are inadequate 
to addressing the issue of people forced out by climate 
change.  We  call  for  a  legal  framework  designed 
to  address  and  protect  the  rights  of  forced  climate 
migrants  and  to  compensate  populations  affected  by 
climate change for the loss of their livelihoods.
16-29673
19/25
A/71/PV.18 
23/09/2016
Solomon Islands is the current Chair of the Pacific 
Islands  Development  Forum  (PIDF),  which  is  a  bold 
attempt to address the issues of sustainable development 
through a structured and inclusive approach, under the 
tripartite leadership of Government, the private sector 
and  civil  society.  The  PIDF  offers  the  Pacific  island 
countries  a  seamless  link  to  the  high-level  political 
forum processes envisaged under “The future we want”.
Solomon  Islands  welcomes  the  Paris  Agreement 
on  Climate  Change,  and  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
the  French  presidency  of  the  2015  Paris  Climate 
Conference for its leadership in helping to restore trust 
and confidence in the multilateral system. We now have 
the Paris Agreement, with legally binding obligations 
to  implement  the  1992  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  (UNFCCC).  I  am 
pleased to announce that Solomon Islands has ratified 
the  Agreement  and  submitted 
instrument  of 
ratification  two  days  ago.  We  are  all  duty-bound  to 
strengthen the Agreement and make it work. 
its 
However, we remain concerned about the fact that 
ambitions under the Paris Agreement remain alarmingly 
low if we are to limit warming to well below 1.5°C above 
pre-industrial levels. We appeal to developed countries 
to  scale  up  the  ambition  of  their  intended  nationally 
determined contributions so as to protect the integrity 
of the Paris Agreement. We hope that in Marrakech we 
will be able to do more to establish the Agreement on 
firmer  foundations  by  taking  concrete  steps  to  close 
the pre-2020 ambition gap. We therefore urge countries 
that have not ratified the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto 
Protocol to do so as soon as possible.
I also welcome the decision taken in December by 
the parties to the Montreal Protocol to phase down the 
production  and  consumption  of  hydrofluorocarbons 
under the treaty. We hope that big emitters and industrial 
countries  will  see  the  urgency  of  preventing  runaway 
climate change and will ratify the Paris Agreement to 
enable its entry into force as soon as possible.
This  year,  scientists  reported  that  five  of  our 
islands  had  been  claimed  by  the  sea  as  a  result  of 
human-induced  sea-level  rise,  while  six  others  were 
severely eroded. Accelerating sea-level rise and ocean 
acidification  continue  to  be  serious  concerns  for  us. 
Delaying action on tackling climate change comes at a 
cost, and we in the SIDS and least-developed countries 
are  unnecessarily  put  in  harm’s  way  by  the  lack  of 
commitment on the part of some.
the  means  of 
Solomon  Islands  welcomes  and  supports 
the 
initiative  of  the  Moroccan  presidency  of  the  twenty-
second  session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to 
the  UNFCCC  in  convening  a  facilitative  dialogue 
on  unlocking 
to 
operationalize the Paris Agreement. We also welcome 
the  decision  of  the  Green  Climate  Fund  to  disburse 
$2.5 billion by December 2016. Solomon Islands is in 
the midst of securing financing from the Fund for one of 
our hydropower projects. We continue to be grateful to 
partners such as Japan, the United Arab Emirates, Italy 
and the Republic of China for their ongoing renewable 
energy assistance to Solomon Islands.
implementation 
I am pleased to announce that Solomon Islands has 
just  deployed  five  police  officers  for  United  Nations 
peacekeeping duties. We intend to step up our efforts to 
meet our global responsibility and send more officers 
to  other  missions  abroad  in  the  near  future.  On  the 
regional front, Solomon Islands would like to express 
its  gratitude  to  all  15  members  of  the  Pacific  Islands 
Forum, including Australia and New Zealand, for their 
steadfast  partnership  and  commitment  to  Solomon 
Islands over the past 13 years. The Regional Assistance 
Mission to Solomon Islands (RAMSI) is winding down 
and  will  withdraw  in  June  2017.  Solomon  Islands  is 
engaging  with  various  partners,  including  Australia 
and New Zealand, on post-RAMSI arrangements.
Solomon Islands remains committed to Sustainable 
Development  Goal  16.  We  have  conducted  national 
reconciliation  outreach  and  would  like  to  thank  the 
United  Nations  for  making  peacebuilding  funds 
available for use in Solomon Islands. We are currently 
undertaking  legislative  and  land  reforms,  including 
nation-building 
are 
committed  to  unifying  our  culturally  richly  diverse 
population.
investments.  We 
economic 
On the issue of the oceans, I am pleased to inform the 
Assembly that Solomon Islands is developing a national 
ocean governance framework that will rationalize and 
enhance  coordination  and  the  implementation  of  all 
ocean-related legislation. Solomon Islands has some of 
the world’s most diverse marine species and is a member 
of  the  Coral  Triangle  Initiative  (CTI).  The  Initiative 
affords  us  a  coordinated  approach  to  marine  and 
coastal management with Government leadership and a 
focus on people-centred natural-resource management 
We are mindful of the growing global attention to the 
oceans and welcome the Assembly’s decision to convene 
a  United  Nations  conference  on  oceans  and  seas  next 
20/25 
16-29673
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.18
year. Solomon Islands also supports the establishment 
of a new agreement to deal with biodiversity in areas 
beyond national jurisdiction.
There  is  no  single  ocean  entry  point  in  the 
multilateral  system,  and  I  call  for  the  establishment 
of  a  world  ocean  authority.  Such  an  authority  would 
coordinate  all  ocean-related  treaties,  entities  and 
programmes,  and  move  beyond  the  current  sectoral 
approach  to  a  single  holistic  and  comprehensive 
framework.
Fisheries contribute significantly to the economies 
of the Pacific. Tuna has served to integrate the economies 
of the Pacific into global markets. This year the Pacific 
small island developing States (SIDS) celebrated Tuna 
Day here at the United Nations. I hope that it becomes 
an annual event, and we will explore the possibility of 
bringing a draft resolution to the General Assembly to 
declare 2 May as World Tuna Day.
Solomon Islands is a party to the Nauru Agreement 
on  Cooperation  in  the  Management  of  Fisheries  of 
Common Interest. We believe in a rights-based approach 
to  fisheries  management  that  guarantees  resource 
owners their fair share of the benefits. The Vessel Day 
Scheme  is  one  such  rights-based  mechanism.  It  has 
significantly increased the economic returns from our 
tuna.
I am pleased to note that one of Solomon Islands’ 
four  continental-shelf  claims  submitted  to  the  United 
Nations Commission on the Limits of the Continental 
Shelf is now awaiting decision by the Commission. The 
joint claim of the Federated States of Micronesia, Papua 
New Guinea and Solomon Islands to the Ontong Java 
Plateau was considered by a subcommission in August. 
Solomon Islands would like to acknowledge the efforts 
of the joint delegation and thank the Division for Ocean 
Affairs and the Law of the Sea for its assistance from 
its trust fund. We encourage all who are blessed with 
resources  to  contribute  to  the  fund.  I  also  thank  the 
Commonwealth  Secretariat  for  the  technical  support 
rendered to the joint delegation, and hope that similar 
support can be extended to the remaining claims.
Solomon  Islands  recognizes 
the  fundamental 
rights  of  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  and  its 
23  million  people  to  participate  meaningfully  in  the 
United Nations specialized agencies. Solomon Islands 
finds Taiwan’s limited and restricted participation with 
the  World  Health  Organization  system  regrettable, 
especially  at  a  time  when  the  spread  of  infectious 
diseases  is  impacting  our  children,  and  we  need 
everyone to assist. We call for Taiwan’s open and free 
access  to  all  World  Health  Organization  meetings. 
Similarly,  Taiwan  remains  unjustly  on  the  fringes  of 
the  International  Civil  Aviation  Organization  (ICAO) 
decision-making  processes,  Taiwan  manages  more 
than 1 million flights, equalling 58 million passengers, 
through the Taipei Flight Information Region. We also 
call for Taiwan’s predictable and certain participation 
in  ICAO  meetings.  There  have  always  been  two 
political systems along the Taiwan Strait. The reality is 
that the world works with one and turns a blind eye to 
the other. The implementation of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  calls  for  all  hands  on  deck. 
Let  us  put  the  interests  of  humankind  first  and  work 
with all, including Taiwan.
The year 2016 is Solomon Islands’ second year as 
Chair of the five-member Melanesian Spearhead Group 
(MSG).  The  Group  has  established  the  subregional 
Humanitarian  and  Emergency  Response  Coordination 
Centre so as to be able to respond to disasters in our 
subregion. The increasing occurrence of severe tropical 
cyclones  requires  timely  international  and  regional 
responses in order to complement nationally led disaster-
management responses. The Group recently concluded 
negotiations on a new MSG trade agreement. The new 
agreement, once signed by the five States, will deepen 
and  tighten  economic  integration  among  the  member 
States. The Group continues to follow the question of 
New Caledonia, which is on the United Nations agenda. 
We  wish  the  people  of  New  Caledonia  all  the  best  as 
they prepare to decide on their political future in 2018.
Solomon  Islands  reaffirms  its  support  for  the 
inalienable right of the people of the territory of French 
Polynesia to self-determination, pursuant to the annual 
resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly,  beginning  in 
2013  (resolution  67/265).  Solomon  Islands  continues 
to  request  the  Administrative  Power  to  work  and 
cooperate with the United Nations Special Committee 
on Decolonization on the question of French Polynesia, 
and we hope that the Special Committee will visit the 
territory soon.
Solomon  Islands  is  gravely  concerned  about  the 
human  rights  violations  against  Melanesians  in  West 
Papua.  Human  rights  violations  in  West  Papua  and 
West  Papua’s  pursuit  of  self-determination  are  two 
sides  of  the  same  coin.  The  many  reports  of  human 
rights violations in West Papua corroborate the practice 
16-29673
21/25
A/71/PV.18 
23/09/2016
of direct violations of human rights by Indonesia in its 
attempts to smother any form of opposition.
The  principle  of  sovereignty  is  paramount  in  any 
institution  whose  core  rationale  is  the  respect  for 
sovereignty. If, however, the justification of sovereignty 
rests on a series of decisions that are questionable, then 
there is a case to challenge the legality of the argument 
for  sovereignty,  as  outlined  in  the  Agreement  signed 
in  New  York  on  15  August  1962  and  the  Act  of  Free 
Choice. Solomon Islands adds its voice to those of other 
Member States and civil-society organizations that are 
concerned about human rights violations in the Papua 
and West Papua regions of Indonesia. As the Chair of 
the  MSG,  which  includes  Indonesia  as  an  associate 
member and the United Liberation Movement of West 
Papua as an observer, Solomon Islands affirms the need 
for constructive engagement with Indonesia and looks 
forward  to  cooperating  with  Indonesia  to  address  the 
violations of human rights in West Papua.
Solomon  Islands  welcomes  the  restoration  of 
relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of 
America.  Solomon  Islands  continues  to  call  on  its 
friend and partner the United States of America to work 
towards completely lifting the embargo. On South-South 
cooperation,  I  would  like  to  register  my  appreciation 
to  Cuba  for  the  medical  scholarships  offered  to  our 
students, and I am pleased to see the growing number 
of graduates returning to serve our people.
The  Beijing  Declaration  and  Platform  for  Action 
remains a source of guidance and inspiration on gender 
equality  and  gender  empowerment.  Solomon  Islands 
remains committed to the full, effective and accelerated 
implementation  of  the  Platform  for  Action,  which 
should enable the realization of gender goals and targets 
under the Sustainable Development Goals. In April of 
this  year,  my  Government  welcomed  the  entry  into 
force of the Family Protection Act. My Government’s 
continued legal-reform programme will result in laws 
that complement the functions of the Family Protection 
Act.
A reform of the Security Council remains elusive. 
We  urge  the  Assembly  to  build  on  the  work  carried 
out at the previous session to make the Council more 
accountable,  representative  and  transparent.  Solomon 
Islands  and  fellow  SIDS  continue  to  seek  a  dedicated 
seat for SIDS in the non-permanent-seat category in the 
Council.
In conclusion, the journey to implement the SDGs 
has  begun.  The  Assembly  will  be  measured  by  our 
success  in  unlocking  the  means,  tools  and  resources 
to  transform  our  peoples’  lives  and  ensure  them  a 
sustainable future. Let us not fail our people.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  of  Solomon  Islands  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Manasseh  Sogavare,  Prime  Minister  of 
Solomon Islands, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Pakalitha Bethuel Mosisili, 
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Lesotho 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Lesotho. 
Mr.  Pakalitha  Bethuel  Mosisili,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke 
in  French):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr. Pakalitha Bethuel Mosisili, Prime Minister of the 
Kingdom of Lesotho, and inviting him to address the 
Assembly. 
Mr. Mosisili (Lesotho): May I take this opportunity 
to  congratulate  the  President  on  his  well-deserved 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventy-first  session.  His  distinguished  career, 
experience  and 
impeccable  credentials  assure  us 
of  a  successful  session.  Let  me  hasten  to  pledge 
my  delegation’s  full  support  and  cooperation  to  the 
President  during  his  term  of  office.  I  also  wish  to 
commend his predecessor, Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, for 
his outstanding leadership during the previous session.
Similar  accolades  go  to  the  Secretary-General, 
the 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  under  whose 
Organization  continues  to  discharge  its  mandate  with 
honour  and  commendable  zeal.  We  may  recall  that, 
under  his  stewardship,  the  United  Nations  dealt  with 
several  challenges,  most  of  which  were  handled  with 
great  success.  As  we  prepare  to  bid  him  farewell, 
we  do  so  with  pride,  as  he  has  indeed  discharged  his 
responsibilities with honour and dignity. He will leave 
an indelible footprint, and his successor will follow in 
his footsteps, continuing the good work done.
leadership 
22/25 
16-29673
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.18
The seventy-first session of the General Assembly 
comes  at  a  time  when  the  United  Nations  as  an 
Organization has made significant strides in addressing 
many of the serious challenges facing the international 
community.  It  is  to  the  credit  of  the  United  Nations 
that, since the end of the Second World War, no world-
wide  conflict  has  occurred,  with  the  exception  of 
localized skirmishes in various parts of the globe. The 
international community has enjoyed the longest period 
of sustained peace and development in modern history.
The  intractable  conflicts  in  the  Middle  East  and 
Africa and the tension on the Korean peninsula and in 
other parts of Asia, as well as the biggest global refugee 
problem since the Second World War, are some of the 
challenges  facing  the  United  Nations  and  the  world 
today. Terrorism continues to rear its ugly head  — in 
Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia — with the 
Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham and other terrorist 
entities  indiscriminately  causing  great  damage  to 
property and the needless loss of lives. World security 
is indivisible. Threats of conflict, terrorism and famine 
in one part of the world will always have debilitating 
repercussions everywhere — the case in point being the 
influx  of  refugees  from  Africa,  the  Middle  East  and 
Asia into Western Europe.
The  adoption  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs)  last  year  and  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change adopted at the recent Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change  are  notable  landmarks  that  have 
cemented  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  as  the  only 
forum at which collective diplomacy can bear fruit.
The theme chosen for the current session, namely, 
“The  Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a  universal 
push  to  transform  our  world”,  is  most  relevant  and 
appropriate at this time when humankind is tottering on 
a precipice resulting from hunger, poverty, disease and 
the adverse consequences of climate change. The theme 
highlights  the  collective  desire  of  the  United  Nations 
to  eradicate  poverty  in  all  its  forms  and  dimensions. 
As we may recall, the overriding message of the 2030 
Agenda is to leave no one behind.
The  unique  and  special  challenges  faced  by  the 
least-developed  countries,  the  landlocked  developing 
countries  and  the  small  island  developing  States,  as 
well  as  those  emerging  from  conflicts,  should  be 
paramount in our minds as we consider strategies and 
steps to be taken to bring the Sustainable Development 
Goals  to  fruition.  We  believe  that  the  inclusion  of 
all  stakeholders,  especially  women  and  youth,  in 
programmatic  and  results-oriented  action  will  bring 
about fundamental changes in the livelihoods and well-
being  of  our  societies.  In  Lesotho  women  constitute 
a  significant  majority  of  the  population  and  are  the 
backbone  of  our  rural  communities.  Their  human-
resource potential must not be underestimated. It is for 
that  reason  that  we  have  promulgated  laws  that  allow 
them access to land, credit and the resources necessary 
for their unfettered engagement in community activity.
Young people are always at the receiving end of an 
economic downturn, anytime one occurs. Yet they are 
endowed with intellect, energy and the exuberance of 
youth, which can be harnessed for development in the 
long term. In line with the SDGs, we have undertaken 
to  capacitate  youth-owned  micro,  small  and  medium-
sized enterprises so that they can acquire appropriate 
skills that will help them create jobs and take advantage 
of  international  markets  already  at  their  disposal. 
Special attention is being given to small and medium-
sized  enterprises,  as  they  form  an  integral  part  of 
industry and are potential employers for unskilled and 
semi-skilled labour. It is also a point of entry for young 
entrepreneurs  into  the  manufacturing  and  services 
sectors.  In  Lesotho’s  coalition  agreement,  we  have 
committed  to  supporting  micro,  small  and  medium-
sized  enterprises 
regulatory 
policies and access to finance.
through  appropriate 
The  transition  from  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals to the SDGs has not been difficult, as there are 
many  synergies  and  complementarities  between  the 
two  programmes.  We  are  also  aware  of  the  synergies 
that  exist  between  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  the  African  Union  (AU)  Agenda  2063 
and the Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan 
of the Southern African Development Community. For 
our part in Lesotho, we have already begun a process 
to  ensure  that  the  three  Agendas  are  mainstreamed 
into our national policies and plans. With our limited 
domestic resources, we are looking for innovative ways 
of  pursuing  our  development  priorities  and  aligning 
them  to  the  global,  continental  and  regional  agendas. 
To  that  end,  Lesotho  has  been  working  with  the 
United Nations country office to conduct sensitization 
workshops  on  the  SDGs.  So  far,  we  have  conducted 
such  workshops  for  the  private  sector,  civil  society 
and  members  of  Parliament.  We  are  in  the  process  of 
reviewing our national strategic development plan so as 
16-29673
23/25
A/71/PV.18 
23/09/2016
to align it fully with the 2030 Agenda and regional and 
continental development plans.
demonstration  of  the  continent’s  desire  for  peace  and 
genuine nuclear disarmament.
We are convinced that a private-sector-led growth 
strategy  that  ensures  that  that  sector  contributes  to 
economic  growth,  job  creation,  poverty  alleviation 
and  sustainable  development  is  vital  for  competition, 
the  expansion  of  trade  and  investment  opportunities. 
Sustainable  Development  Goal  9,  which  enjoins  us  to 
“build  resilient  infrastructure,  promote  inclusive  and 
sustainable  industrialization  and  foster  innovation”, 
recognizes 
infrastructure, 
industrialization  and  technology  for  the  progress  and 
development of countries like Lesotho.
importance 
the 
of 
Economic  development  cannot  be  sustainable 
without a conscious effort to protect the environment. 
The  adoption  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change in 2015 is another milestone in the global effort 
to  safeguard  and  promote  humankind’s  continuing 
progress  and  survival.  We  welcome  the  pledges  by 
developed countries to make resources available for the 
Green Climate Fund.
The  threats  posed  by  underdevelopment,  climate 
change  and  HIV/AIDS  have  pricked  the  conscience 
of  humankind  for  many  years.  Lesotho  has  adopted 
an  innovative,  indigenous  leadership  programme  that 
seeks  to  galvanize  the  collective  wisdom  of  all  levels 
of  leadership  to  join  in  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS 
in  particular,  and  to  ensure  that  the  health  delivery 
system  is  affordable,  accessible  and  effective.  The 
programme was launched by His Majesty King Letsie 
III  on  25  August.  We  also  launched  a  test-and-treat 
programme  in  April  and  revived  the  National  AIDS 
Commission.  Those  are  just  a  few  of  the  initiatives 
that  the  Government  of  Lesotho  has  taken  to  curb 
new  infections,  maternal  deaths  and  new  incidences 
of tuberculosis.
We  recognize  the  role  of  disarmament  in  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  and 
Lesotho remains fully committed to the implementation 
of  the  provisions  of  Security  Council  resolution  1540 
(2004), aimed at preventing the proliferation of nuclear, 
chemical  and  biological  weapons.  We  therefore  call 
upon  all  the  nuclear-weapon  States  to  start  making 
deep  cuts  in  their  current  nuclear-weapon  stockpiles, 
with  the  ultimate  aim  of  finally  eliminating  them 
altogether.  The  African  Nuclear-Weapon-Free-Zone 
Treaty, which entered into force in July 2009, is a clear 
We  should  all  remain  true  to  the  principle  of  the 
responsibility to protect, which the General Assembly 
unanimously  adopted  less  than  a  decade  ago.  That 
principle imposes upon us the responsibility to create 
conditions  of  peace,  security  and  harmony,  while 
leaving  no  room  for  hostility,  violence  or  aggression. 
We therefore remain committed to supporting actions 
by  the  Security  Council  that  include  authorization 
for  military 
intervention  where  necessary.  Our 
understanding  is  that  the  principles  in  international 
law on the non-use of force in international relations, 
respect for the sovereignty and the territorial integrity 
of  States,  as  well  as  non-interference  in  the  internal 
affairs of other States, remain paramount and sacrosanct 
in all instances. We commend the Security Council for 
its  work  undertaken  in  keeping  with  those  principles 
throughout the years.
For that reason, I wish to reiterate Lesotho’s well-
known position on the reform of the Security Council, 
in  line  with  the  established  position  of  the  African 
Union,  as  articulated  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus.  We 
strongly urge that the very important issue of Security 
Council  reform  should  not  be  turned  into  a  joke.  The 
sooner it is concluded, the better for humankind and for 
peace in the world.
We  furthermore  reiterate  our  position  on  the 
one-China  policy,  a  position  that  will  ensure  that  the 
people of China are not dismembered and huddled into 
imaginary geographic segments.
The right to self-determination and independence is 
a God-given right that cannot be taken away arbitrarily. 
It is for that reason that we have never wavered in our 
support for the independence of the people of Western 
Sahara. We call upon the United Nations to assist the 
Secretary-General in resuscitating the negotiations on 
the holding of a referendum in Western Sahara, so as to 
determine the will of the Saharawi people. We also urge 
the Kingdom of Morocco to support the process, so as 
to bring a lasting solution to the matter and facilitate the 
return of Morocco to its rightful place in the African 
Union family.
By  the  same  token,  the  plight  of  the  Palestinian 
people  has  been  on  the  international  community’s 
agenda for far too long. We call for a new initiative that 
will buttress all efforts aimed at a two-State solution, 
with  the  State  of  Israel  and  that  of  Palestine  existing 
24/25 
16-29673
23/09/2016 
A/71/PV.18
side by side in peace. A fresh initiative is required to 
restart  the  process  that  produced  the  Oslo  Accords 
and bring an end to the suffering of the communities 
concerned,  which  have  endured  aggression  for  more 
than  60  years.  Surely,  a  permanent  resolution  of  that 
seeming  impasse  is  now  overdue  and  urgent  for  the 
benefit  of  the  neighbouring  countries  as  well  and  the 
world at large.
As  I  conclude,  let  me  express  our  hope  and 
expectation  that  in  the  next  decade,  the  efforts  of 
the  United  Nations  aimed  at  accelerating  the  pace  of 
economic development on a global scale will begin to 
show  tangible  results.  Let  us  work  together  to  create 
a  world  where  the  foundations  of  world  peace  and 
security will continue to rest, not on the absence of war 
but  on  the  international  principles  of  non-aggression, 
the  non-use  of  force  in  inter-State  relations  and  the 
peaceful  resolution  of  disputes,  in  accordance  with 
the Charter of the United Nations. We will, hopefully, 
continue  to  consolidate  the  foundations  of  a  world 
where the true definition of peace will manifest itself 
in harmonious relations among peoples and in mutual 
respect  and  understanding  between  nations.  We  will 
continue to build prosperity for our peoples on the basis 
of the agreed principles embodied in the SDGs, which 
represent  a  pragmatic  and  visionary  programme  that 
seeks to free humankind from the bondage of hunger 
and  poverty.  We  will  ultimately  embrace  the  need  to 
allow reason to prevail over might. That is the future of 
our dreams — the future that we owe to posterity.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Lesotho for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Pakalitha  Bethuel  Mosisili,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 6 p.m.
16-29673
25/25
