United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
48th plenary meeting
Monday, 21 November 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.48
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Zamora Rivas 
(El Salvador), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 115 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(e) Appointment of members of the Independent 
Audit Advisory Committee
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/71/593/Add.1)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
paragraph  3  of  document  A/71/593/Add.1,  the  Fifth 
Committee  recommends  that  the  General  Assembly 
reappoint  Ms.  Maria  Gracia  Pulido-Tan  of 
the 
Philippines  as  a  member  of  the  Independent  Audit 
Advisory  Committee  for  a  three-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2017.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  wishes 
to  reappoint  Ms.  Maria  Gracia  Pulido-Tan  of  the 
Philippines  as  a  member  of  the  Independent  Audit 
Advisory  Committee  for  a  three-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2017?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  I 
take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
conclude  its  consideration  of  sub-item  (e)  of  agenda 
item 115?
It was so decided.
(h) Appointment of members of the Joint 
Inspection Unit
Note by the Secretary-General (A/71/596)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As 
indicated  in  the  note  by  the  Secretary-General,  as  a 
result of the resignation of Mr. George Bartsiotas of the 
United States of America during its current session, the 
General Assembly is required to appoint one member 
of  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit  who  will  serve  for  a  full 
term,  beginning  on  1  January  2017  and  expiring  on 
31 December 2021.
In  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  article  3, 
paragraph  1,  of  the  statute  of  the  Joint  Inspection 
Unit  and  after  consulting  with  the  regional  group 
concerned,  I  have  requested  that  the  United  States  of 
America propose a candidate to replace Mr. Bartsiotas. 
In accordance with resolution 59/267, of 23 December 
2004,  the  candidate  should  have  experience  in  at 
least  one  of  the  13  following  fields:  oversight,  audit, 
inspection,  investigation,  evaluation,  finance,  project 
evaluation,  programme  evaluation,  human  resources 
management,  management,  public  administration, 
monitoring and/or programme performance, as well as 
knowledge of the United Nations system and its role in 
international relations.
Document A/71/596 also indicates that, as a result 
of  the  consultations  that  were  held  in  accordance 
with  article  3,  paragraph  2,  of  the  statute  of  the  Joint 
Inspection  Unit, 
in  particular  consultations  with 
the  President  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and  with  the  Secretary-General  in  his  capacity  as 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-39494 (E)
*1639494*
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
Chair  of  the  United  Nations  System  Chief  Executives 
Board for Coordination, I am authorized to submit to 
the  Assembly  the  candidature  of  Ms.  Eileen  Cronin 
of  the  United  States  of  America  as  the  candidate  for 
appointment as a member of the Joint Inspection Unit 
for a five-year term beginning on 1 January 2017 and 
expiring on 31 December 2021.
May I take it that the General Assembly wishes to 
appoint the proposed candidate?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May 
I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly 
to  conclude  the  current  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
sub-item (h) of agenda item 115?
It was so decided.
2/33 
Agenda item 126
Cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional and other organizations
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/160 
and Add.1)
Notes by the Secretary-General (A/71/171 
and A/71/207)
Draft resolution (A/71/L.17)
(a) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the African Union
(b) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation
(c) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Asian-African Legal Consultative Organization
(d) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States
Draft resolution (A/71/L.6)
(e) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Latin American and Caribbean Economic System
(f) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of American States
(g) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe
(h) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Caribbean Community
(i) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Economic Cooperation Organization
Draft resolution (A/71/L.14)
(j) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
International Organization of la Francophonie
(k) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization
(l) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Council of Europe
Draft resolution (A/71/L.15)
(m) Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Economic Community of Central 
African States
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
(n) Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Organization for the Prohibition of 
Chemical Weapons
(o) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization
Draft resolution (A/71/L.16/Rev.1)
(p) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Southern African Development Community
(q) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Pacific Islands Forum
(r) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(s) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Eurasian Economic Community
(t) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries
(u) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Shanghai Cooperation Organization
Draft resolution (A/71/L.11)
(v) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Collective Security Treaty Organization
Draft resolution (A/71/L.7)
(w) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Central European Initiative
Draft resolution (A/71/L.9)
(x) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization for Democracy and Economic 
Development — GUAM
Draft resolution (A/71/L.12)
(y) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Commonwealth of Independent States
Draft resolution (A/71/L.5)
(z) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the International Organization for Migration
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  Kyrgyzstan  to 
introduce draft resolution A/71/L.5.
Ms. Moldoisaeva (Kyrgyzstan) (spoke in Russian): 
The delegation of the Kyrgyz Republic, as Chair of the 
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) this year, 
has  the  honour  to  submit  draft  resolution  A/71/L.5, 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Commonwealth of Independent States”.
Established in 1991, the Commonwealth is made up 
of 11 member States and is celebrating its twenty-fifth 
anniversary  this  year.  The  Commonwealth  is  aimed 
at  developing  mutually  beneficial  cooperation  among 
member  States  in  political,  economic,  humanitarian, 
cultural,  environmental  and  other  areas.  In  line  with 
resolution 48/237, of 24 March 1994, the Commonwealth 
was accorded observer status in the General Assembly.
The central event of the year for the CIS was the 
meeting of the Council of Heads of State in September 
in  Bishkek.  It  is  worth  noting  the  four  declarations 
adopted at the summit: a statement on the twenty-fifth 
anniversary of the CIS, which assesses the activities of 
the Commonwealth and considers the need to improve, 
develop  and  enhance  the  organization;  a  statement 
on  the  outcome  of  the  special  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  world  drug  problem;  a  statement  on 
future  joint  efforts  to  combat  international  terrorism; 
and  a  statement  on  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
completion  of  the  Nuremberg  trials.  Pursuant  to  the 
decision  of  the  CIS  Heads  of  State,  those  statements 
were  circulated  to  the  United  Nations  by  the  Kyrgyz 
chairmanship of the CIS as official documents.
Cooperation  between  the  CIS  and  the  entities  of 
the  United  Nations  system  continues  to  develop.  The 
CIS  Executive  Committee  liaises  with  a  number  of 
the specialized agencies of the United Nations system, 
in  particular  the  Economic  and  Social  Commission 
for  Asia  and  the  Pacific  and  the  United  Nations 
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. The 
executive bodies of the United Nations Conference on 
Trade and Development and the Economic Commission 
for  Europe,  as  well  as  the  United  Nations  Office  at 
Geneva  and  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime, have established contractual relations with the 
CIS.  Since  July  2013,  the  CIS  Executive  Committee 
has  acted  as  a  contact  point  for  cooperation  with  the 
Security  Council  Committee  established  pursuant  to 
Security Council resolution 1540 (2004). That list is far 
from complete.
On  28  October,  the  Russian  presidency  convened 
a  debate  of  the  Security  Council  (see  S/PV.7796)  on 
the  issue  of  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  regional  organizations,  such  as  the  Collective 
Security  Treaty  Organization  (CSTO),  the  Shanghai 
16-39494
3/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
Cooperation  Organization  (SCO)  and  the  CIS  with  a 
view  to  supporting  international  peace  and  security. 
Most  of  those  who  spoke  at  that  debate  agreed  that 
the  United  Nations  could  not  afford  to  try  to  cope 
with contemporary threats to peace and security on its 
own.  It  is  necessary  instead  to  establish  a  collective 
approach  that  requires  the  consistent  enhancement  of 
the cooperation capacity of the United Nations, as well 
as that of regional and subregional organizations, which 
have a clearer understanding of both the overall and the 
local political situations on the ground. The CIS, the SCO 
and  the  CSTO  were  recognized  for  their  contribution 
to ensuring peace and security at the international and 
regional levels. Speakers noted in particular the success 
of operations to combat terrorism, drug trafficking and 
illegal migration, and joint initiatives with the United 
Nations in Central Asia and Afghanistan.
As  Chair  of  the  CIS  for  2016,  Kyrgyzstan  is 
grateful  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
and other organizations (A/71/160). The report covers 
the two-year period from 2014 to 2016 and assesses the 
progress  of  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  relevant  regional  organizations,  including  the 
CIS.  The  activities  and  achievements  outlined  in  the 
report  demonstrate  the  scale  and  breadth  of  United 
Nations  cooperation  with  its  regional  partners  in  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  in 
providing  humanitarian  assistance  and  in  promoting 
development and human rights.
In recent years, the solid cooperation between the 
United  Nations  and  CIS  has  focused  on  addressing 
common  problems  relating  to  social,  economic  and 
humanitarian  issues  at  various  levels.  In  order  to 
enhance  the  practical  component  of  that  cooperation 
and increase its effectiveness, we need to strengthen the 
relevant basis for such cooperation in order to promote 
the  development  and  deepening  of  relations  between 
the CIS and the agencies of the United Nations system.
We  therefore  submit  for  consideration  the  draft 
resolution  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Commonwealth of Independent States” 
(A/71/L.5). The draft resolution invites the specialized 
agencies  and  other  organizations,  programmes  and 
funds  of  the  United  Nations  system,  as  well  as  the 
international  financial  institutions,  to  develop  their 
cooperation  with  the  CIS.  Kyrgyzstan  is  convinced 
that  developing  the  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  regional  and  subregional  organizations, 
including the CIS, will make it possible to completely 
and effectively address a wide range of areas, exchange 
best  practices  in  various  fields  and  bring  them  into 
practical application.
In conclusion, on behalf of the Kyrgyz delegation, I 
would like to express our thanks to the States involved 
for  their  participation  in  the  work  on  the  text  of  the 
draft resolution submitted today.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  Belarus  to 
introduce draft resolution A/71/L.7.
Mr.  Dapkiunas  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
Belarus, as the current Chair of the Collective Security 
Treaty Organization (CSTO), has the honour to submit 
to the General Assembly draft resolution A/71/L.7, on 
cooperation between the United Nations and the CSTO. 
The  sponsors  are  Armenia,  Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan, 
the Russian Federation, Tajikistan and Belarus.
The CSTO is an important partner of the international 
community in promoting peace, security and progress 
on  the  path  towards  sustainable  development.  Today, 
the  CSTO  is  a  multifaceted  organization  with  a  wide 
range  of  capabilities  to  address  contemporary  threats 
and  challenges.  Cooperation  between  the  CSTO  and 
the United Nations is based on a number of documents, 
including the joint declaration of 2010 on cooperation 
between the secretariats of the two Organizations and 
the  2012  memorandum  of  understanding  between  the 
CSTO  secretariat  and  the  United  Nations  Department 
of Peacekeeping Operations.
The draft resolution welcomes the contribution of 
the  CSTO  in  areas  of  international  cooperation  such 
as  combating  terrorism  and  organized  transnational 
crime, the fight against drug and weapons trafficking, 
illegal migration, human trafficking and dealing with 
the consequences of natural and man-made disasters. It 
also highlights the development of CSTO peacekeeping 
capacities. Collective actions taken in those areas are 
in  line  with  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  and 
contribute to the achievement of its goals.
The  CSTO  is  ready  to  initiate  mechanisms  for 
cooperation  on  all  those  issues.  I  should  like  to  cite 
one  example  of  such  cooperation  in  practice.  Last 
year, in order to address the drug-distribution channels 
emanating  from  Afghanistan,  the  CSTO  conducted 
operations that involved 25 non-CSTO States Members 
of the United Nations. Such collaboration confirms the 
4/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
practical  contribution  of  the  CSTO  to  strengthening 
regional and international security.
The  draft  resolution  calls  for  both  organizations 
to  continue  exploring  potential  ways  to  increase 
cooperation  in  the  field  of  peacekeeping.  We  look 
forward, during the Belarus chairmanship of the CSTO,  
to  the  qualitative  development  of  such  cooperation, 
including on the basis of new ideas, for harnessing the 
peacekeeping  potential  of  CSTO  member  countries 
together with United Nations peacekeeping operations.
We are grateful to the delegations of the countries 
that  participated  in  the  consultations  on  the  draft 
resolution  and  look  forward  to  future  constructive 
cooperation  in  the  building  of  partnerships  between 
the  United  Nations  and 
regional  organizations, 
including the CSTO.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina to introduce draft resolution A/71/L.9.
Mr.  Vukašinović  (Bosnia  and  Herzegovina):  As 
the  country  currently  holding  the  chairmanship  of 
the  Central  European  Initiative  (CEI),  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina has the honour to introduce, under agenda 
item  126,  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  Central  European 
Initiative”, contained in document A/71/L.9.
The  draft  resolution  submitted  today  reaffirms 
our  strong  commitment  to  regional  and  subregional 
cooperation  as  the  vital  precondition  for  successful 
international cooperation. Addressing many challenges 
in  today’s  ever-changing  world  requires  constantly 
renewing  partnerships  among  regional  organizations 
and  between 
the 
United Nations.
regional  organizations 
and 
The Central European Initiative — the largest and 
oldest forum for regional cooperation in Central, East 
and South-East Europe — has always considered cross-
border,  regional  and  interregional  cooperation  to  be 
the  most  valuable  instruments  for  ensuring  regional 
stability  and  security  and  for  exploring  the  potential 
for trade and economic partnerships. The CEI focuses 
particularly on the areas of common interest between its 
member  States  such  as  agriculture,  transport,  energy, 
assistance  to  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises, 
municipal 
services,  banking, 
insurance, institution-building and capacity-building.
infrastructure  and 
By  focusing  on  sustainable  development  and 
interconnectivity at the regional level, the Initiative is 
contributing to the realization of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development. That was confirmed during 
the June 2016 annual meeting of ministers for foreign 
affairs  of  the  CEI  member  States  held  in  Banja  Luka 
and  organized  by  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina. At that meeting, the Ministers 
reiterated  their  full  commitment  to  good-neighbourly 
relations,  the  rule  of  law,  a  free  market  economy  and 
respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms, 
which  are  preconditions 
security 
and development.
stability, 
for 
The  continuing  commitment  of  the  European 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) in 
supporting  the  economies  of  CEI  countries  and  their 
regional  integration  is  living  proof  of  the  importance 
of the partnership between the CEI and the EBRD. The 
CEI member States express their great appreciation for 
the  contributions  of  the  Central  European  Initiative 
Trust  Fund,  financed  entirely  by  Italy,  as  well  as  the 
Know-how Exchange Programme, financed by Austria 
and Italy.
The CEI is placing new emphasis in its cooperation 
with  the  most  important  European  institutions  and 
organizations,  above  all  the  European  Union,  as 
well  as  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation 
and  Development,  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the 
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. 
I  would  also  like  to  underline  that  the  CEI  continues 
to  strengthen  its  cooperation  with  other  regional 
initiatives,  such  as  the  Adriatic  and  Ionian  Initiative, 
the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation  Organization, 
the  Council  of  the  Baltic  Sea  States,  the  South-East 
European  Cooperation  Process  and  its  operational 
arm,  the  Regional  Cooperation  Council.  The  focus 
is  on  identifying  the  most  efficient  and  productive 
action,  avoiding  duplication  and  properly  managing 
resources  in  order  to  reach  our  shared  goals.  In  that 
sense, the Initiative is confirming its role as a bridge 
between macroregions.
Allow  me  to  express  our  sincere  thanks  to  the 
CEI  secretariat  and  the  CEI  member  States  for  their 
assistance  and  cooperation  in  preparing  the  draft 
resolution.  Finally,  I  would  like  to  call  on  the  States 
members  of  the  General  Assembly  to  adopt  the  draft 
resolution on cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Central European Initiative without a vote.
16-39494
5/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  Kazakhstan  to 
introduce draft resolution A/71/L.11.
Mr. Kamaldinov (Kazakhstan): As we commence 
this important meeting, I welcome the recent release of 
the Secretary-General’s report on cooperation between 
the United Nations and regional and other organizations 
(A/71/160),  which  provides  insights  into  the  latest 
trends in the collaborative efforts of the United Nations 
to fulfil the mandates of its Charter.
Today,  on  behalf  of  the  States  members  of  the 
Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization  (SCO)  —  the 
People’s Republic of China, the Republic of Kazakhstan, 
the  Republic  of  Kyrgyzstan,  the  Russian  Federation, 
the  Republic  of  Tajikistan  and 
the  Republic  of 
Uzbekistan  —  I  have  the  honour  to  submit  for  the 
Assembly’s  consideration  draft  resolution  A/71/L.11, 
entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization”.  The 
draft  resolution  is  based  on  resolution  64/183,  of 
18 December 2009; resolution 65/124, of 13 December 
2010;  resolution  67/15,  of  19  November  2012;  and 
resolution 69/11, of 11 November 2014.
This year, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization 
celebrates its fifteenth anniversary. In the decade and 
a  half  of  its  existence,  the  organization  has  enjoyed 
12  years  of  observer  status  in  the  General  Assembly. 
During that time, the SCO has attained a commendable 
profile  in  its  standing  as  a  reputed  international  and 
regional  organization.  The  SCO  is  an  influential 
and  effective  factor  in  strengthening  mutual  trust 
and  ensuring  security  and  stability  in  contemporary 
international  relations.  Its  activities  are  also  aimed  at 
sustainable development, particularly in the spheres of 
economy, education, energy, environmental protection, 
information and communication technologies and other 
areas. The organization contributes to effective counter-
terrorism  cooperation,  including  through  the  regional 
anti-terrorist structure, and promotes the fight against 
drug trafficking and other forms of transnational crime.
SCO  member  States  support  the  swift  attainment 
of peace and stability in Afghanistan — an important 
factor  in  maintaining  and  strengthening  security  in 
the region. The draft resolution before us is the result 
of  informal  consultations  convened  by  the  Republic 
of  Kazakhstan  in  its  capacity  as  a  current  chair  of 
the organization.
Finally, I would like to thank all of the delegations 
that  participated  in  the  deliberations  with  sincere 
commitment  and  engagement.  Their  constructive 
contribution to strengthening the existing ties between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Shanghai  Cooperation 
Organization has been significant.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  Azerbaijan  to 
introduce draft resolution A/71/L.12.
Mr.  Aliyev  (Azerbaijan):  In  our  capacity  as  2016 
chair of the Organization for Democracy and Economic 
Development — GUAM, the delegation of Azerbaijan 
has the honour to introduce, on behalf of the sponsors 
and  under  agenda  item  126  (x),  draft  resolution 
A/71/L.12,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Organization  for  Democracy  and 
Economic Development — GUAM”.
GUAM  is  an  international  regional  organization 
consisting of four member States, namely, Azerbaijan, 
Georgia,  the  Republic  of  Moldova  and  Ukraine.  This 
multilateral  format  of  cooperation  was  established  on 
10 October 1997, when the Presidents of the four States 
signed a joint communiqué. Since then GUAM has been 
transformed  into  a  full-fledged  international  regional 
organization,  with  a  well-institutionalized  structure 
and  permanent  secretariat,  as  well  as  with  a  distinct 
vocation  of  promoting  democracy  and  the  economic 
development of its member States.
GUAM  has  established  and  continues  to  develop 
mutually  beneficial  cooperation  and  dialogue  with 
other international organizations and partner countries. 
In  resolution  58/85,  of  8  January  2004,  the  General 
Assembly  granted  observer  status  to  GUAM.  On 
17  December  2012,  at  its  sixty-seventh  session,  and 
on 2 April 2015, at its sixty-ninth session, the General 
Assembly  adopted  by  consensus  resolutions  67/109 
and  69/271,  respectively,  each  entitled  “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for 
Democracy and Economic Development — GUAM”.
Over  the  period  since  the  adoption  of  the  latest 
resolution,  further  efforts  have  been  undertaken  to 
continue cooperation with the relevant United Nations 
agencies,  as  well  as  to  explore  further  opportunities 
for  dialogue  and  interaction  across  a  broad  agenda 
of  mutual  interest  and  concerns.  This  year’s  draft 
resolution, which is based on the previous resolutions 
of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  topic,  acknowledges 
the  efforts  of  the  Organization  for  Democracy  and 
6/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
Economic Development — GUAM aimed at developing 
partnership  relations  with  the  United  Nations  and  its 
Member  States.  It  also  takes  note  of  the  activity  of 
GUAM targeted on promoting regional cooperation in 
various areas.
The draft resolution emphasizes the importance of 
strengthening  dialogue,  cooperation  and  coordination 
between  the  United  Nations  system  and  GUAM, 
and  urges 
the  specialized  agencies,  components, 
organizations,  programmes  and  funds  of  the  United 
Nations  to  cooperate  and  develop  direct  contacts 
with  GUAM  for  the  joint  implementation  of  projects 
aimed  at  the  attainment  of  common  objectives.  We 
are confident that the adoption of the draft resolution 
will  further  contribute  to  developing  cooperation 
between the United Nations and GUAM, promoting the 
purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the 
United Nations, and implementing the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development.
The  draft  resolution  has  been  discussed  in  the 
course  of  informal  consultations  in  an  open  and 
transparent manner. I would like to thank delegations 
for  their  constructive  approach  and  support  for  the 
draft resolution as well as those delegations that have 
sponsored it. I look forward to the adoption of the draft 
resolution by consensus.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  Algeria  to 
introduce draft resolution A/71/L.6.
introduce  draft 
Mr.  Bessedik  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  is 
a  pleasure,  on  behalf  of  the  League  of  Arab  States, 
to 
resolution  A/71/L.6,  entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
League of Arab States”, sponsored by Algeria, Bahrain, 
the  Comoros,  Djibouti,  Egypt,  Iraq,  Jordan,  Kuwait, 
Lebanon,  Libya,  Mauritania,  Morocco,  Oman,  Qatar, 
Saudi Arabia, Somalia, the Sudan, Tunisia, the United 
Arab  Emirates  and  Yemen,  as  well  as  El  Salvador, 
Poland, Spain and Sweden.
The  draft  resolution  is  based  on  the  important 
collaborative  principle  reflected  in  Chapter  VIII  of 
the Charter of the United Nations, whereby the United 
Nations is encouraged to cooperate with regional and 
international organizations in areas of common interest, 
in particular the maintenance of international peace and 
security.  Furthermore,  the  draft  resolution  welcomes 
the amendment to the cooperation agreement between 
the League of Arab States and the United Nations, dated 
September 2016, and appeals for cooperation between 
the United Nations and the League of Arab States. In that 
context, a meeting was held in 2015 in Cairo in which 
the League of Arab States focused on the repercussions 
of  undervaluing  human  rights.  A  thirteenth  meeting, 
held in Geneva in May 2016 between the United Nations 
and the League of Arab States, considered in detail the 
challenges to international peace and security and the 
current regional and international difficulties that need 
to be overcome, particularly in the recent period, and 
require enhanced cooperation.
Because that cooperation needs to be broadened, the 
draft resolution calls for enhanced cooperation between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States, 
which  is  most  important.  Indeed,  the  draft  resolution 
calls for broader cooperation at all levels between the 
United Nations, its specialized agencies and the League 
of Arab States in order to achieve our joint goals. For 
that reason, I call on the General Assembly to adopt the 
draft resolution without a vote.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  who  will  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/71/L.14.
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 
the honour, on behalf of the members of the Economic 
Cooperation  Organization  (ECO),  to  introduce  draft 
resolution  A/71/L.14,  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization”, dated 14 November 2016, which is based 
on resolution 69/111, on the same topic.
in 
interest 
Regional cooperation is now a prevailing paradigm 
and  a  phenomenon  of 
international 
relations.  Cooperation  among  neighbouring  and 
regional  countries  within  the  context  of  institutional 
frameworks such as the ECO has proved its value for 
the  economic  development  and  prosperity  of  peoples. 
The ECO, which was established in 1964, has become 
a dynamic and outward-looking regional organization 
and has been successful in forging a range of economic 
and non-economic cooperation arrangements.
As  one  of  the  largest  groups  in  the  world,  the 
Economic Cooperation Organization spans a territory of 
8 million square kilometres, with more than 450 million 
inhabitants.  The  ECO  regions  cover  10  countries  in 
West  and  East  Asia,  as  well  as  Central  Asia  and  the 
Caucasus,  connecting  Europe  to  China  and  Russia 
to  the  Persian  Gulf.  ECO  is  now  functioning  on  two 
16-39494
7/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
tracks, namely, as a regional cooperation framework to 
complement  the  individual  development  efforts  of  its 
member States and as a platform to translate the global 
agenda into actions at the regional level.
In  accomplishing  those  two  functions,  the  ECO 
has  been  expanding  partnerships  and  cooperation 
arrangements  with  potential  partners.  The  United 
Nations  system  has  always  been  the  prime  target  of 
ECO  outreach  policy  to  help  to  implement  the  global 
agenda in our part of the world. That is why we are of 
the view that the United Nations-ECO relationship, as 
consolidated by the draft resolution before us, not only 
helps the ECO to utilize the capacities, resources and 
knowledge of United Nations agencies in the interests of 
ECO member States, but also offers the United Nations 
system the regional capacities, networks and platforms 
developed by the ECO during the past three decades.
The  ECO  will  soon  begin  to  implement  its 
new  vision  for  the  next  10  years,  which  has  been 
drafted  in  line  with  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. The new vision, guided by regional needs 
and  requirements,  as  well  by  the  global  development 
agenda,  will  focus  on  cooperation  in  areas  such  as 
economic  growth  and  productivity,  trade  expansion, 
enhanced  connectivity,  energy  efficiency,  and  human 
development  and  social  welfare.  It  is  encouraging  to 
note  that  the  draft  resolution  will  be  in  place  during 
the first two years of the new ECO vision, enabling the 
ECO and its member States to benefit from an enhanced 
relationship  with  United  Nations  funds,  programmes 
and  specialized  agencies  while  implementing  our 
visions, plans and programmes.
The  draft  document  has  been  prepared  after 
continuous engagement with and receiving input from 
ECO  member  States.  The  document  is  based  on  the 
lessons learned from the implementation of ECO Vision 
2015, adopted in 2005 in Astana. The draft Vision 2025 
aims to address the emerging needs and requirements 
for  economic  development  of  the  ECO,  its  member 
States and the region as a whole, endeavouring to focus 
on core matters such as trade, transport, connectivity 
and energy as called for by the needs and aspirations 
of  member  States.  A  comprehensive  framework  for 
implementation and periodic review has been included 
so as to ensure its optimal implementation.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  express,  on  behalf  of  ECO  member  States,  our 
sincere  thanks  to  all  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  that  participated  actively  and  constructively 
in the consultations on the draft resolution and showed 
flexibility  throughout  the  process,  without  which  no 
agreement would have been possible. In view of that, I 
would like to request that all Member States lend their 
continued  support  to  this  year’s  draft  resolution  and 
adopt it by consensus, as in previous years.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  Estonia  to 
introduce draft resolution A/71/L.15.
Mr.  Jürgenson  (Estonia):  In  accordance  with  the 
mandate  given  by  the  Committee  of  Ministers  of  the 
Council of Europe to the chairmanship of the Council of 
Europe, I have the honour to introduce draft resolution 
A/71/L.15,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Council of Europe”.
Estonia assumed the chairmanship of the Council 
of  Europe  in  May  and  concludes  it  tomorrow,  so  it  is 
symbolic to present this draft resolution to the General 
Assembly at the end of our term. The draft resolution is 
sponsored by the 52 countries listed in the document, 
which to our knowledge is the highest number for this 
draft resolution on cooperation.
Cooperation  between  the  Council  of  Europe  and 
the  United  Nations  started  as  far  back  as  1951  with 
the  agreement  between  the  secretariats  of  the  two 
organizations. In 1989, the General Assembly granted 
the Council of Europe an invitation to participate as an 
observer in its sessions. Today, the Council of Europe 
works  closely  with  a  large  number  of  United  Nations 
bodies. Since 2000, and every second year since 2004, 
a resolution on cooperation between the United Nations 
and  the  Council  of  Europe  has  been  adopted.  Those 
resolutions  have  demonstrated  that  the  collaboration 
between the United Nations and the Council of Europe 
is  well  established  and  has  evolved  and  deepened 
over time.
The  draft  resolution  under  consideration  today 
includes  important  updates  with  regard  to  the  work 
undertaken  by  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the  United 
Nations  in  the  areas  of  common  interest  since  the 
adoption  of  resolution  69/83,  in  2014.  The  draft 
resolution  encourages  further  cooperation 
the 
fields  of  the  protection  and  promotion  of  human 
rights,  fundamental  freedoms  and  the  rule  of  law; 
the  fight  against  discrimination  and  intolerance;  the 
advancement  of  gender  equality  and  the  fight  against 
violence  against  women;  the  prevention  of  torture, 
in 
8/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
inhuman  or  degrading  treatment  or  punishment;  the 
protection  of  the  rights  of  children;  the  fight  against 
terrorism,  transnational  organized  crime,  cybercrime, 
corruption and trafficking in human beings; as well as 
in  the  fields  of  Internet  governance,  the  information 
society and fostering intercultural dialogue. The draft 
resolution also recognizes the effective implementation 
of  the  outcomes  of  relevant  international  conferences 
and legal instruments.
Let me assure members that the Council of Europe 
remains committed to the promotion of its three main 
pillars:  human  rights,  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law. 
It  stands  ready  for  dialogue  and  partnership  aimed  at 
advancing its core values and achieving greater synergy 
with the United Nations.
To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  thank  all  members 
of  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the  observer  States  for 
their  support  during 
the  Estonian  chairmanship, 
as  well  as  all  delegations  here  in  New  York  for  their 
constructive  engagement  and  the  flexibility  shown 
during consultations on the draft resolution. We hope 
that the draft resolution will be adopted by consensus.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the floor to the representative of Serbia to introduce 
draft resolution A/71/L.16/Rev.1.
(o)  of  agenda 
Mr.  Milanović  (Serbia):  On  behalf  of  the  States 
members  of  the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization  (BSEC),  I  have  the  honour  to  introduce 
draft  resolution  A/71/L.16/Rev.1,  submitted  under 
sub-item 
item  126  and  entitled 
“Cooperation between the United Nations and the Black 
Sea  Economic  Cooperation  Organization”.  I  wish  to 
thank all BSEC member States for agreeing on a joint 
text of the draft resolution, which will further contribute 
to enhancing cooperation with the United Nations and 
its  specialized  agencies,  funds  and  programmes,  as 
well as to strengthening the relevance and visibility of 
the activities undertaken for the benefit of the countries 
of the wider Black Sea area.
I  also  wish  to  thank  the  sponsors  of  the  draft 
resolution  for  their  valuable  support  for  the  noble 
aims and objectives of the oldest, most representative 
and  institutionally  mature  organization  promoting 
multilateral economic cooperation in the region. BSEC 
will mark its twenty-fifth anniversary in 2017.
The draft resolution — which I sincerely hope will 
be adopted without a vote again this year — is aimed at 
building on a relationship that is fully complementary 
to  the  purposes  of  the  United  Nations  in  achieving 
international  cooperation  in  solving  problems  of  an 
economic,  social  or  humanitarian  nature,  and  is  in 
accordance  with  the  promotion  of  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  in  terms  of  regional 
cooperation,  as  set  out  in  the  relevant  Articles  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations.
in 
It  also  seeks  to  promote  the  interest  of  the  Black 
Sea  Economic  Cooperation  Organization 
the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, bearing in mind the interconnectivity and 
mutually  beneficial  and  supporting  role  that  regional 
and subregional frameworks can play in facilitating the 
effective translation of sustainable development policies 
into concrete action at the national level. Furthermore, 
it  will  also  help  to  promote  fruitful  cooperation  in 
developing  practical  and  goal-oriented  projects  with 
the  aim  of  implementing  sustainable  development 
strategies  based  on  a  balanced  and  harmonious 
relationship  linking  social  needs,  economic  activities 
and environmental protection.
In 
implementing 
for 
regional  projects 
the 
sustainable development of the region, it will, inter alia, 
strive to focus on renewable energy, energy efficiency, 
green  technologies,  developing  small  and  medium-
sized  enterprises,  improving  regional  and  municipal 
infrastructure,  and  increasing  the  export  potential 
of  the  region’s  States.  It  will  also  support  numerous 
ongoing  projects  with  a  variety  of  partners  from  the 
United Nations family in areas as diverse and broad as 
strengthening transport infrastructure, the preservation 
of the environment, enhancing criminal justice systems 
and  fostering  common  values  through  the  promotion 
of  understanding  and  reconciliation  among  cultures 
globally and regionally.
As  Chairman-in-Office  of  BSEC,  Serbia  has 
endeavoured  to  contribute  to  the  improvement  of 
economic cooperation among the countries of the region 
in  areas  of  mutual  interest,  building  on  the  activities 
and  projects  of  the  previous  chairmanships.  Its  main 
priorities  have  been  the  development  of  economic 
cooperation,  particularly  in  the  areas  of  trade  and 
tourism; cooperation in the area of transport, on which 
a ministerial meeting was recently held in Belgrade; the 
strengthening  of  cooperation  with  other  international 
and  regional  organizations  and  initiatives,  striving  to 
achieve synergies wherever possible; and reform of the 
organization, which is aimed at making it more project-
16-39494
9/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
oriented,  efficient  and  functional.  It  has  also  sought 
to  foster  cooperation  in  various  other  areas,  such 
as  energy,  tourism,  education,  science,  technology, 
culture, environmental protection, customs, health care, 
pharmaceuticals  and  combating  crime,  among  others, 
in  the  context  of  the  interrelatedness  of  those  issues 
and their importance for the economic development of 
BSEC member States. Serbia has remained open to new 
ideas  and  suggestions  by  other  BSEC  member  States, 
observers and sectorial-dialogue partners on modalities 
to further enhance cooperation.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the  hope 
that the draft resolution will garner the support of the 
members of this body, as has been the case in previous 
years,  and  that,  once  adopted,  it  will  contribute  to 
the  strengthening  of  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and BSEC.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  Rwanda  to 
introduce draft resolution A/71/L.17.
Ms.  Feza  (Rwanda):  I  am  grateful  for 
the 
opportunity  to  introduce  draft  resolution  A/71/L.17, 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the International Criminal Police Organization”.
Rwanda  has  been  a  member  of  INTERPOL  since 
1974,  and  Australia,  as  a  co-facilitator,  has  been  a 
member  of  INTERPOL  since  1948.  Both  countries 
have  worked  closely  with  INTERPOL  over  the  years, 
with Rwanda having successfully hosted INTERPOL’s 
General Assembly in Kigali this year. Given our close 
cooperation with INTERPOL and our strong belief in 
INTERPOL’s  activities,  goals  and  objectives,  we  are 
pleased to introduce the draft resolution to the General 
Assembly,  which  we  believe  to  be  the  next  rational 
step  in  the  history  of  cooperation  between  the  two 
organizations.  The  INTERPOL  Secretary  General, 
Mr.  Jürgen  Stock,  who  is  present  here  today,  will  be 
addressing  representatives  in  due  course.  However, 
I  would  like  to  take  a  few  minutes  of  members’ 
time  to  provide  them  with  some  of  the  background 
information  on  the  relationship  of  long  date  between 
the two organizations.
The  INTERPOL  Liaison  Office  to  the  United 
Nations  in  New  York  was  established  in  October 
2004  to  raise  awareness  of  INTERPOL’s  services 
within  the  United  Nations  community  and  encourage 
the use of its available tools and networks, as well as 
identify  areas  of  common  interest  and  opportunities 
for  increased  cooperation  and  coordination.  Indeed, 
since  its  inception,  the  Office  has  taken  the  lead  role 
in  further  enhancing  INTERPOL’s  cooperation  with 
United  Nations  entities  directly  involved  in  activities 
related  to  law  enforcement.  INTERPOL  carries  out 
all  its  activities  in  accordance  with  its  own  rules  and 
regulations in full respect of member States’ sovereignty 
and consistent with each member State’s domestic laws 
and regulations.
The  goal  of  the  draft  resolution  on  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  INTERPOL  is  to 
formally  acknowledge  the  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  INTERPOL  in  assisting  States 
Members of the United Nations  that are also INTERPOL 
member countries to prevent and respond to crime and 
improve their law-enforcement capabilities upon their 
request  and  within  the  framework  of  their  respective 
mandates.  It  also  fully  recognizes  and  encourages 
the  strengthening  of  cooperation  in  areas  of  common 
interest  —  as  mentioned  in  the  third  preambular 
paragraph — namely,
“tackling  terrorism,  including  preventing  foreign 
terrorist fighter travel and combating transnational 
crime, in particular transnational organized crime, 
including  smuggling  of  migrants,  trafficking  in 
persons, drug trafficking, intentional and unlawful 
destruction of cultural heritage and trafficking in 
cultural property, piracy, illicit trade in small arms 
and  light  weapons,  illicit  trafficking  in  nuclear, 
biological,  chemical  and  radiological  materials, 
cybercrime, corruption and money-laundering and 
crimes  that  affect  the  environment,  such  as  illicit 
trafficking in wildlife”.
To date, the General Assembly has adopted specific 
resolutions  involving  23  observer  organizations,  such 
as  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation 
in  Europe,  the  Council  of  Europe,  the  Economic 
Cooperation Organization, the African Union and the 
League of Arab States, among others.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  thank  members  of  the  core  group  that  have  been 
working  closely  with  Australian  and  Rwanda  in 
drawing up the draft resolution. I also extend my thanks 
to all 1smun that actively participated in the series of 
negotiation  meetings  and  to  those  that  sponsored  the 
draft resolution. Their valuable contributions, guidance 
and support on the first draft resolution on cooperation 
10/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
between the United Nations and INTERPOL have been 
greatly appreciated.
Mr.  Vieira  (Brazil):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 
on  behalf  of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking 
Countries  (CPLP),  the  member  States  of  which  are 
Angola,  Cabo  Verde,  Guinea-Bissau,  Equatorial 
Guinea, Mozambique, Portugal, Sao Tome and Principe, 
Timor-Leste and my own country, Brazil.
The Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries 
held  its  eleventh  summit  meeting  on  October  31  and 
1 November in Brasilia. On that occasion, CPLP Heads 
of  State  and  Government  welcomed  the  selection 
of  António  Guterres  as  the  next  Secretary-General 
in  the  most  transparent  process  in  the  history  of 
the  Organization.  We  also  highlighted 
the 
Secretary-General-designate  is  the  first  citizen  of 
a  Portuguese-speaking  country  to  occupy  such  a 
distinguished position.
that 
We were honoured that Secretary-General-designate 
Guterres  accepted  the  invitation  of  President  Michel 
Temer  of  Brazil  to  attend  the  eleventh  CPLP  summit 
meeting 
in  Brasilia.  We  concur  with  Secretary-
General-designate  Gutteres  that  the  CPLP  has  a 
positive  role  to  play  globally  in  that  it  is  committed 
to  the  same  general  principles  as  those  that  underlie 
the  functioning  of  the  United  Nations.  Indeed,  as 
enshrined in its founding document, the Community of 
Portuguese-speaking  Countries  shares  a  commitment 
to  the  primacy  of  peace,  democracy,  the  rule  of  law, 
human rights and social justice.
The year 2016 marks the twentieth anniversary of 
the CPLP, which we celebrated on 17 July. Over the past 
20 years, the Community has managed to consolidate 
itself  as  a  platform  for  dialogue  and  political  and 
diplomatic  cooperation  among  Portuguese-speaking 
countries  and  between  the  CPLP  and  the  rest  of  the 
world.  Looking  ahead,  CPLP  members  believe  that 
mobility is an essential tool for progressively building a 
sense of CPLP citizenship.
The  implementation  of  the  Agenda  2030  for 
Sustainable  Development  —  the  central  theme  of 
this  session  of  the  General  Assembly  —  will  require 
concerted cooperation among all relevant stakeholders. 
That is an area where the CPLP and the United Nations 
can be strategic partners. The CPLP is ready to promote 
political  dialogue  and  the  exchange  of  experiences 
and cooperation to support the full implementation of 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  in  all 
Portuguese-speaking countries. The very theme of the 
eleventh  CPLP  summit  meeting,  in  Brasilia,  “CPLP 
and  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development”, 
reflects that priority.
Allow  me  to  emphasize  the  important  role  of 
regional  and  subregional  groups  in  peacebuilding 
efforts. As Member States are aware, Angola, a member 
of  our  Community,  co-facilitated,  with  Australia, 
resolution  70/262,  entitled  “Review  of  the  United 
Nations  peacebuilding  architecture”,  and  Security 
Council  resolution  2282  (2016),  on  the  same  subject, 
which  acknowledge 
importance  of  enhanced 
partnerships  and  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and regional and subregional organizations.
the 
Brazil  currently  holds  the  chairmanships  of  both 
the CPLP and the Guinea-Bissau configuration of the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  We  intend  to  increase 
cooperation  between  those  two  bodies,  in  line  with 
the  mandate  established  in  resolution  70/262  and  the 
principles of the CPLP. The CPLP has long been engaged 
in peacebuilding efforts. The Community is part of the 
forum  on  Guinea-Bissau  that  includes  representatives 
of the United Nations, the African Union, the Economic 
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the 
European Union and works to promote a constructive 
dialogue  between 
the  Bissau-Guinean  authorities 
and  national  and  international  stakeholders.  In  that 
regard, we commend the valuable work carried out by 
the  former  Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-
General  in  Guinea-Bissau,  Mr.  Miguel  Trovoada. 
CPLP members are confident that the current Special 
Representative,  Mr.  Modibó  Touré,  will  effectively 
discharge his responsibilities.
As highlighted by the Peacebuilding Commission, 
the  swift  implementation  of  the  six-point  agreement, 
brokered by a high-level ECOWAS mission to Guinea-
Bissau  on  10  September,  is  urgently  needed.  The 
relevant regional and subregional actors should remain 
united in supporting the diplomatic efforts undertaken 
by  ECOWAS  and  in  supporting  Guinea-Bissau  in  its 
endeavours  to  achieve  stabilization.  The  Executive 
Secretary  of  the  CPLP  will  continue  to  follow  up  on 
the  political  situation  in  Guinea-Bissau  and  promote 
consultation  and 
that  country’s 
authorities and international and regional partners.
interaction  with 
As  mentioned  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  (A/71/160),  the  CPLP  and  the  International 
Labour  Organization  (ILO)  have  cooperated  closely 
16-39494
11/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
with  regard  to  the  ILO  International  Programme  on 
the Elimination of Child Labour. Following the CPLP 
declaration of 2016 as the Year against Child Labour, 
a  number  of  workshops  were  held  with  a  view  to 
undertaking  joint  activities  aimed  at  preventing  and 
eliminating that practice.
The  Secretary-General  also  recalls  in  his  report 
CPLP  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  Office 
on  Drugs  and  Crime  on  the  implementation  of  the 
CPLP  Lisbon  Action  Plan  for  Establishing  Common 
Measures  to  Prevent  and  Combat  Trafficking  in 
Human Beings, and its partnership with the Food and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations for the 
implementation of a technical cooperation programme 
in  support  of  the  CPLP  Regional  Strategy  for  Food 
Security and Nutrition.
We  welcome  the  adoption,  on  6  July  2015,  of 
resolution  69/311,  on  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking 
Countries.  This  year’s  draft  resolution  stresses  the 
importance  of  continuing  to  strengthen  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations,  its  agencies,  entities, 
programmes  and  other  international,  regional  and 
subregional organizations.
Around  280  million  people  speak  Portuguese 
in  the  world  today,  which  makes  it  the  fifth  most 
spoken  language  in  the  world,  the  third  most  spoken 
in the western hemisphere and the most spoken in the 
southern hemisphere. Our goal is to continue promoting 
the Portuguese language, including within the United 
Nations,  as  a  means  to  promote  cultural  diversity 
among the Portuguese-speaking peoples and as a means 
of projecting their cultural values internationally in an 
open  and  universal  fashion.  In  that  context,  we  wish 
to highlight the work of the Portuguese Unit of United 
Nations Radio in broadcasting issues of concern to the 
United Nations and Portuguese-speaking people.
In my concluding remarks, I wish to reiterate that 
the CPLP is ready to engage with the United Nations 
system, its programmes, funds and agencies in order to 
strengthen mutual collaboration.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the floor to the observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Van  Den  Akker  (European  Union):  I  have 
the honour to speak on behalf of the European Union 
and  its  member  States.  The  candidate  countries  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Serbia  and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization 
and  Association  Process  and  potential  candidate 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  and  the  European  Free 
Trade  Association  country  Liechtenstein,  member  of 
the  European  Economic  Area  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align  themselves 
with this statement.
We  welcome  the  coming  adoption  today  of  draft 
resolution A/71/L.15, entitled “Cooperation between the 
United Nations and the Council of Europe”, which aims 
to  enhance  cooperation  between  the  two  institutions. 
Since the signing in 1951 of the agreement between the 
Council  of  Europe  and  the  Secretariat  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  cooperative  arrangements  between  the 
respective secretariats in 1971 and resolution 44/6, of 
1989, the Council of Europe has continued to contribute 
to  the  protection  of  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms. Moreover, the Council of Europe has striven 
to improve the synergy between its work and that of the 
United Nations.
relating 
The  draft  resolution  before  us  contains  an 
operational  paragraph  on  questions 
to 
human  rights.  In  the  informal  consultations,  several 
delegations  called  for  an  end  to  the  use  of  the  death 
penalty.  Unfortunately,  we  note  with  regret  that  that 
call  has  once  again  not  been  taken  on  board  and  that 
the paragraph on that issue was not retained. The new 
inclusion of a call for the prevention of torture and other 
cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment 
is  but  a  small  improvement.  The  Council  of  Europe, 
together  with  the  European  Union,  its  member  States 
and many other European and non-European countries, 
have been engaged in the campaign on that subject for 
a long time.
On the occasion of the World Day against the Death 
Penalty on 10 October, the Council of Europe and the 
European Union made a joint declaration appealing for 
a  global  moratorium  on  the  use  of  the  death  penalty 
and urging States Members of the United Nations  to 
support  the  draft  resolution  on  a  moratorium  on  the 
use  of  the  death  penalty  when  it  is  put  to  a  General 
Assembly vote in December. We hope to build on the 
momentum created by the call for a global moratorium 
by  all  participating  members  of  the  sixth  World 
Congress against the Death Penalty in June of this year. 
We therefore strongly urge that, in future, that issue be 
included in the draft resolution on cooperation between 
the United Nations and the Council of Europe.
12/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
Furthermore, we would like to draw representatives’ 
attention  to  the  platform  to  promote  the  protection 
of  journalism  and  the  safety  of  journalists.  That  new 
instrument was set up by the Council of Europe in 2015 
and has been well accepted as a useful tool by persons 
working for various media in Europe.
for  addressing 
to 
recognizes 
Mr.  Suriboonya 
(Thailand):  Partnership 
is 
the  myriad  global 
indispensable 
challenges.  The  cooperation  between 
the  United 
Nations  and  other  international  organizations  is  at 
the  heart  of  such  international  partnerships.  Various 
organizations  contribute 
that  collective  effort 
through  their  respective  strengths  and  comparative 
advantages.  Thailand 
their  valuable 
contributions  in  addressing  such  challenges.  This 
year, my delegation would like to focus our statement 
specifically  on  the  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and INTERPOL.
First, Thailand is proud to have been one of the core 
group  members  and  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution 
on  the  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
INTERPOL  (A/71/L.17).  Undoubtedly,  we  have  all 
gathered here for the same reason, namely, to eradicate 
all kinds of threats from our society, no matter which 
region  those  threats  find  themselves  in,  and  lead  the 
people  of  the  world  towards  ultimate  and  sustainable 
peace. The critical threats that are now undermining our 
well-being, destroying our economies, jeopardizing our 
democracy, human rights and human dignity, impairing 
the potential of our generation as well as hindering our 
efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, 
comprise  terrorism,  transnational  crime  and,  last  but 
not least, cybercrime.
Everyone here knows very well how hard the United 
Nations  has  continuously  fought  the  aforementioned 
threats.  That  effort  has  significantly 
intensified 
since  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-first  century,  or, 
more  specifically,  since  we  adopted  the  Convention 
on  Transnational  Organized  Crime  in  2000.  Despite 
the  hard  work  and  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and 
its  machinery,  especially  the  United  Nations  Office 
on  Drugs  and  Crime,  those  threats  —  and  I  believe 
all  would  agree  —  have  not  only  increased  but  have 
also  rapidly  expanded  to  every  corner  of  the  world. 
Even  more  so,  they  have  become  more  complex  and 
sophisticated,  and  that  has  made  it  very  difficult  for 
law-enforcement  agencies  to  conduct  investigations 
and bring the perpetrators to justice.
Physical  connectivity  has  led  to  a  new  paradigm 
in travelling in which people can go around the globe 
by  multiple  means  of  transportation.  Wireless  and 
cyberconnectivity have also enhanced the capabilities 
of 
its  networks.  Such 
technological advances can also enable an individual, 
even without an organized criminal network, to wreak 
havoc around the world.
transnational  crime  and 
In  such  a  situation,  we  need  intelligence-led 
policing  and  law  enforcement.  That  means  that  it  is 
no  longer  enough  for  intelligence  to  come  only  from 
security agencies. Police and law-enforcement agencies 
and  the  public  sector  alone  cannot  fight  effectively 
against  crime  and  terrorism  without  the  participation 
of  the  private  sector  and,  most  importantly,  that  of 
people  in  the  community.  In  short,  we  need  a  public-
private-people  partnership  to  fight  crime  in  this 
century, often called the century of transnational crime 
and terrorism.
In order to engage the people in the fight against 
crime, we need to raise awareness. The United Nations, 
through the convening of international conferences and 
the adoption of the appropriate resolutions, has the power 
to raise public awareness. However, the challenge lies 
in how to make the work of the United Nations trickle 
down  to  the  people  and  be  relevant  for  the  frontline 
officers  in  the  performance  of  their  daily  duties.  We 
should therefore bring the United Nations closer to the 
people. It is time for us to tell the frontline officers that 
the United Nations is relevant for them. It is also time 
that the discussions and exchanges at meetings like this 
one be made known not only to leaders and politicians, 
but also directly and effectively to frontline officers as 
well as to the people in the community.
INTERPOL’s  communication  system,  also  known 
as the I-24/7, which has already expanded to frontline 
officers  in  some  countries  and  is  being  expanded 
in  many  others,  will  be  the  key  to  raising  awareness 
among the people and connecting the United Nations to 
frontline officers. With databases that frontline officers 
can  immediately  access,  international  best  practices 
and guidelines, as well as valuable information, can be 
made readily available to them.
Please allow me to cite an example in my country. 
More  than  40  million  foreigners  came  to  Thailand 
between June 2015 and August 2016. Their information, 
and their passport numbers in particular, were checked 
against INTERPOL databases, in particular the Stolen 
16-39494
13/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
and  Lost  Travelling  Documents  database.  Nearly 
1,300 foreigners were found to be using lost and stolen 
passports. We provided that information to our frontline 
officers  around  the  country,  which  resulted  in  55 
fugitives with INTERPOL red notices being arrested, 
the highest number of arrests in Asia.
lead 
to  effective  and 
Thailand  believes  that  a  public-private-people-
partnership  will 
smart 
intelligence-led  policing,  which  means  better  and 
more  accurate  anti-criminal  and  counter-terrorism 
operations.  Strengthening  the  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  INTERPOL  will  no  doubt 
contribute  to  that  objective,  as  well  as  to  sustainable 
peace. Once again, it is time that we connect the United 
Nations with the frontline officers and our people. It is 
time  for  the  people  to  see  and  understand  the  impact 
of the United Nations work on countering transnational 
crime and terrorism. It is time for people to realize that 
they are part of the solution and to engage themselves 
in the fight against transnational threats.
INTERPOL  is  a  key  partner  for  Member  States 
and  the  United  Nations  in  making  that  happen.  This 
year’s  adoption  of  the  first  General  Assembly  draft 
resolution on cooperation between the United Nations 
and INTERPOL is a remarkable step in that direction.
Mr. Rao (India): I wish to refer to the report of the 
Secretary-General  (A/71/160)  on  agenda  item  126,  on 
cooperation between the United Nations and the Asian-
African  Legal  Consultative  Organization  (AALCO), 
and thank him for it. 
The Asian-African Legal Consultative Organization 
was  established  in  1956.  Its  inception  was  a  tangible 
outcome  of  the  historic  Afro-Asian  Conference  in 
Bandung, Indonesia, in 1955. AALCO is now composed 
of 47 member States from Africa and Asia, with several 
States  from  other  parts  of  the  world  participating  in 
its  activities  as  observer  States.  AALCO  is  the  only 
interregional  organization  combining  the  interests  of 
two major continents for focused and serious discussions 
on matters of international law. It was one of the first 
organizations to which the General Assembly granted 
permanent  observer  status,  in  1980.  Pursuant  to  its 
main  objective,  which  is  to  promote  and  disseminate 
international  law,  AALCO  closely  follows  the  work 
of  the  Sixth  Committee  —  the  Legal  Committee 
of  the  General  Assembly  —  the  International  Law 
Commission  and  the  United  Nations  Commission  on 
International Trade Law (UNCITRAL).
As to the contribution of AALCO to the discipline 
of 
international 
law,  a  noteworthy  development 
is  the  concept  of  the  exclusive  economic  zone,  an 
important  element  in  the  field  of  the  law  of  the  sea. 
Similarly,  the  organization’s  member  States  use  the 
Bangkok  Principles  on  the  status  and  treatment  of 
refugees,  adopted  by  AALCO,  for  guidance  on  those 
issues.  AALCO’s  work,  which  is  of  great  value  to  its 
member  States,  includes  studies  and  deliberations, 
inter  alia,  on  the  principles  related  to  the  extradition 
of  fugitive  offenders,  the  model  text  for  bilateral 
arrangements on mutual assistance in civil matters and 
the model agreement for the promotion and protection 
of investments.
India is proud to have been the host country for the 
organization since it was established, having provided 
land and a building for its headquarters in New Delhi. 
I am pleased to inform the Assembly that the current 
AALCO Secretary-General is from Tanzania. Regional 
rotation in leadership is a healthy practice, as it draws 
on  the  values  and  enrichment  provided  by  diverse 
cultures  and  perspectives.  In  May,  in  New  Delhi, 
AALCO held its fifty-fifth session, at which such topics 
as  counter-terrorism,  customary  international  law, 
sustainable  development,  the  law  of  the  sea,  climate 
change and cybercrime were considered. The results of 
its deliberations have been published. AALCO has also 
established several regional arbitration centres in Asia 
and  Africa.  These  centres  apply  the  arbitration  rules 
promulgated  by  UNCITRAL,  and  these  arbitrations 
have been well received.
At  United  Nations  Headquarters,  the  Permanent 
Observer of AALCO has regularly organized seminars, 
workshops  and  informal  discussions  on  international 
law topics of common interest. These events are open 
to  all  missions,  delegations  and  the  Secretariat,  with 
inclusive and open discussion as the objective. Judges, 
jurists, scholars and practitioners visiting New York are 
invited to take an active part in these activities.
Ms.  Ng  Boon  Yian  (Singapore):  At  the  outset,  I 
would like to extend our appreciation to the President of 
the General Assembly for convening today’s important 
debate.  We  also  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
comprehensive  report  on  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations 
(A/71/160).
I would like to begin with an obvious proposition. 
The  United  Nations  cannot  work  alone.  Regional  and 
14/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
other  organizations  must  be  engaged  to  complement 
and support the work of the United Nations and uphold 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations.  Many  global  challenges  that  we  face  today, 
from climate change to terrorism, are complex and of 
a transnational nature. A close partnership between the 
United Nations and regional and other organizations is 
necessary to address such challenges effectively. 
the  United  Nations 
Regional organizations are able to work in concert 
with 
to  develop  customized 
strategies  to  implement  our  collective  goals,  such  as 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  and  to  do  so  in 
ways that take into account their unique circumstances 
and  needs.  International  organizations,  on  the  other 
hand, with their functional expertise can be tapped to 
enhance our capabilities to achieve our collective goals. 
In that regard, Singapore welcomes the adoption of the 
various  draft  resolutions  on  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations 
today.  The  significant  number  of  resolutions  to  be 
adopted  this  year  attests  to  the  broad  network  of 
partnerships  that  the  United  Nations  has  forged.  This 
network should be deepened and broadened.
Of note, Singapore strongly supports the adoption 
of a new draft resolution entitled “Cooperation between 
the United Nations and the International Criminal Police 
Organization” (A/71/L.17), which we have the honour 
of co-sponsoring. The adoption of the draft resolution 
is  timely  and  relevant.  The  threat  of  transnational 
crime  has  increased,  as  criminal  networks  exploit 
technological  advances  and  connectivity  to  further 
illicit activities that have grown in sophistication. For 
example,  cybercrime  is  becoming  more  prevalent  and 
pervasive.  We  have  also  witnessed  an  increasingly 
strong  nexus  between  organized  crime  and  terrorism, 
as  terrorists  resort  to  criminal  activities  to  finance, 
plan and carry out their nefarious activities. Tackling 
these  fast-evolving  threats  therefore  requires  much 
stronger  cooperation  among  Member  States  and  with 
key partners, such as INTERPOL.
With  its  long  history,  INTERPOL  has  played  a 
key  role  as  the  world’s  largest  international  police 
organization.  Singapore  has  been  a  proud  member  of 
INTERPOL since 1968 and is privileged to be able to 
play our part to support international law enforcement by 
hosting the INTERPOL Global Complex for Innovation. 
The Global Complex in Singapore aims to equip police 
all  around  the  world  with  the  tools  and  capability  to 
confront increasingly sophisticated crime. The Global 
Complex  focuses  on  digital  security,  including  how 
to  strengthen  cybersecurity  and  counter  cybercrime, 
providing  capacity-building  and  operational  and 
investigative  support.  Situated  in  the  heart  of  Asia, 
the  Global  Complex  has  broadened  partnerships 
between  INTERPOL  and  relevant  stakeholders  in 
Asia. Singapore looks forward to working closely with 
INTERPOL and the United Nations to explore ways to 
enhance cooperation through the Global Complex.
As  a  member  of  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian Nations (ASEAN), Singapore also looks forward 
to  the  adoption  of  a  draft  resolution  on  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  ASEAN  later  this 
year.  It  is  encouraging  that  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  ASEAN  has  continued  to  grow 
and strengthen over the years. The new five-year Plan 
of  Action  (2016-2020)  that  we  recently  adopted  to 
implement  the  Joint  Declaration  on  Comprehensive 
Partnership  between  ASEAN  and  the  United  Nations 
will be a useful road map for our collaboration in the 
years ahead. An area that both sides should focus on is 
how  to  enhance  complementarities  between  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and the ASEAN 
Community Vision 2025. As ASEAN continues to press 
ahead with its regional integration efforts, we are eager 
to  deepen  our  partnership  with  the  United  Nations  to 
further the goals of the Charter of the United Nations 
and create a better and safer world for our citizens.
Ms.  Bahous  (Jordan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  welcome  presence  here  today 
of  the  Secretary  General  of  INTERPOL,  Mr.  Jürgen 
Stock, on this important occasion.
My country, Jordan, is honoured to be among the 
sponsors of draft resolution A/71/L.17, on cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  INTERPOL.  We 
truly  believe  in  the  importance  and  effective  role  of 
INTERPOL  in  achieving  cooperation  among  law-
enforcement agencies in different countries to make our 
world  safer  and  more  secure.  We  would  like  to  thank 
all  the  Member  States  that  participated  in  informal 
discussions  on  the  draft  resolution  last  month.  Their 
suggestions and other contributions are reflected in the 
draft resolution we have before us today.
resolution  confirms 
INTERPOL’s 
neutral,  non-politicized  role,  which  was  designed  to 
respect the sovereignty and national legislation of States 
in  combating  organized  crime,  transnational  crime, 
The  draft 
16-39494
15/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
human trafficking, drug trafficking, the destruction of 
cultural  heritage,  trafficking  in  cultural  property,  the 
illicit trade in small arms and biological, chemical and 
radiological  materials,  money  laundering  and  crimes 
that  affect  the  environment  and  wildlife.  The  draft 
resolution  also  points  out  the  important  cooperation 
between  INTERPOL  and  United  Nations  agencies  in 
combating  terrorism  by  assisting  States  Members  of 
the United Nations in implementing the United Nations 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  whenever  they 
request such assistance, including information-sharing 
on foreign terrorist fighters and border control.
the 
trafficking 
in  combating 
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  point  out  that 
Jordan, through its participation in efforts to enhance 
cooperation 
in  nuclear, 
biological,  chemical  and  radiological  materials,  has 
underscored  IN  many  forums  how  important  it  is  to 
exchange information to combat threats in that regard. 
We have also emphasized the importance of enhancing 
cooperation  between  INTERPOL,  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency and law-enforcement agencies.
We encourage countries to benefit from INTERPOL 
databases,  especially 
I-24/7  global  police 
communications  system,  which  allows  authorized 
to  share  sensitive  and 
law-enforcement  agencies 
important 
in 
Member States around the world. Last week, under the 
I-24/7  programme,  the  Public  Security  Directorate  in 
Jordan  and  INTERPOL  installed  new  border-control 
equipment,  using  funding  from  the  European  Union. 
The  project  will  be  launched  in  the  next  few  days. 
States can also benefit from the Criminal Information 
System, which supports the efforts of national agencies 
in  their  investigations  and  operations.  We  encourage 
countries that have not yet joined INTERPOL to do so 
as soon as possible in order to benefit from the services 
and  information  provided  by  INTERPOL  to  all  of  its 
members free of charge.
their  counterparts 
information  with 
At  a  time  when  the  world  is  suffering  from  the 
scourge of terrorism, THE swift and effective exchange 
of  information  among  countries  and  their  security 
agencies remains one of the most important means to 
overcome this phenomenon and reduce its impact and 
that  of  accompanying  organized  and  transnational 
crimes.  As  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations, 
we  must  therefore  establish  or  enhance  platforms 
that  allow  us  to  fully  carry  out  this  role.  Enhancing 
complementarity  among  States  Members  of 
the 
United  Nations  and  INTERPOL,  as  an  international 
organization,  has  proved  to  be  highly  effective  in 
linking law enforcement agencies around the world. As 
countries  seeking  to  create  a  better  and  more  secure 
world, we now see that cooperation is our duty.
the 
like 
to  stress 
We  would 
importance  of 
achieving  complementarity  and  cooperation  between 
such  specialized  agencies  as  INTERPOL  and  the 
United Nations in order to combat organized crime and 
terrorist  organizations,  for  such  entities  are  impeding 
sustainable  development  and  social  development  in 
many countries, especially those in the Middle East. The 
most important pillar to stress in the draft resolution is 
complementarity, the fulfilment of which will contribute 
to  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Mr.  Sánchez  Gil  (Spain)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
would like to begin by expressing Spain’s support for the 
adoption of draft resolution A/71/L.17, on cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  INTERPOL,  as  well 
as  to  thank  Australia  and  Rwanda  for  their  work 
as facilitators.
We  have  before  us  a  draft  resolution  that  will 
help  to  raise  the  level  of  cooperation  between  both 
organizations, even though it has been at a high level 
since  it  was  formalized  almost  two  decades  ago.  My 
country, Spain, is aware of the importance of the draft 
resolution  for  exploiting  the  great  potential  of  the 
coordinated  work  of  both  organizations  to  adequately 
address  the  fight  against  terrorism  and  organized 
crime.  For  that  reason,  it  is  also  crucial  to  efficiently 
use the capabilities that INTERPOL makes available to 
its member countries to address security threats.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  noting  Spain’s 
sponsorship of the draft resolution, of whose importance 
and value we are, above all, convinced.
Mr. Estreme (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): I have 
the pleasure to speak on agenda item 126, in particular 
on  the  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
INTERPOL.
In that regard, Argentina expresses its satisfaction 
at  the  imminent  adoption  of  the  first  draft  resolution 
(A/71/L.17) of the General Assembly on that topic. As a 
member of the Group of Friends of INTERPOL, we had 
the honour of participating actively in the negotiations 
on it. We thank the facilitators, Australia and Rwanda, 
for the work they have carried out.
16/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
The text to be adopted today acknowledges and calls 
for  reinforced  cooperation  on  a  wide  range  of  issues, 
such  as  the  fight  against  terrorism  and  international 
organized  crime,  including,  inter  alia,  the  smuggling 
of  migrants,  human  trafficking,  drug  trafficking,  the 
destruction of cultural heritage, trafficking in cultural 
property,  piracy,  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light 
weapons,  illicit  trafficking  in  nuclear,  biological, 
chemical  and 
radiological  material,  cybercrime, 
corruption,  money  laundering  and  crimes  that  affect 
the environment.
We  underscore  the  fact  that  the  draft  resolution 
is  fully  in  line  with  resolution  70/291,  on  the  United 
Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  review, 
co-facilitated  by  my  country  and  Iceland,  whose 
paragraph  47  notes  with  appreciation  the  activities 
undertaken  by  INTERPOL  to  help  Member  States 
that  require  assistance  put  the  Strategy  into  practice. 
Moreover, we believe that it is a balanced text and the 
fruit of arduous negotiations, which afforded Member 
States  an  opportunity  to  present  and  reconcile  their 
positions. The draft resolution is also a good basis on 
which  we  can  continue  to  build  on  over  the  next  two 
years,  particularly  following  the  submission  of  what 
will be the first report of the Secretary-General on the 
subject, during the seventy-first session.
Argentina  expresses  its  intention  to  continue 
cooperating with INTERPOL, both through the United 
Nations  and  at  the  bilateral  level,  using  the  tools 
that  INTERPOL  makes  available  to  Member  States. 
Such  cooperation  includes  the  full  support  of  the 
regional  office  in  Buenos  Aires,  which  was  recently 
reflected  in  the  INTERPOL  General  Assembly  with 
the appointment of the Head of the Argentine Federal 
Police, General Commissioner Néstor Roncaglia, as one 
of the two representatives of the American continent of 
its  Executive  Committee  for  the  period  2016-2017,  as 
well as with the appointment of Ambassador Leandro 
Despouy,  a  human  rights  law  expert,  as  a  member  of 
the Commission for the Control of INTERPOL’s Files.
In the light of those considerations, my delegation 
hopes  that  the  General  Assembly  will  adopt  draft 
resolution A/71/L.17 by consensus.
INTERPOL  in  combating  transnational  crime  and 
other security challenges.
In 
it 
today’s  armed  conflicts, 
is  becoming 
increasingly  difficult  to  distinguish  one  category  of 
actors from another. Terrorist groups, for example, rely 
on criminal methods to appropriate financial resources. 
Some  of  those  involved  in  organized  crime  are  also 
involved in conflicts of a political nature. Moreover, new 
issues,  such  as  the  intentional  and  illegal  destruction 
of  cultural  heritage,  cybercrime  and  the  involvement 
of foreign terrorist fighters, have an overall impact on 
security  and  stability  at  both  the  national  and  global 
levels. Such threats concern all States.
Strengthening cooperation and coordination between 
the  United  Nations  and  INTERPOL  will  serve  the 
goals  and  purposes  of  both  organizations.  That  will 
be achieved by taking advantage of existing synergies 
whenever  the  opportunity  arises.  Using  the  resulting 
resources more effectively will contribute to long-term 
security improvements.
As a founding member of INTERPOL, Switzerland 
has always played an active role in the development of 
the organization’s activities. Since it became a Member 
of  the  United  Nations,  our  country  has  committed 
to  fostering  closer  cooperation  between  the  two 
organizations in order to better confront the challenges 
I mentioned. In that regard, we consider the adoption of 
this draft resolution as a decisive step in strengthening 
that  cooperation.  Furthermore,  we  also  attach  great 
importance  to  the  report  that  will  be  submitted  by 
the  Secretary-General  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-third session, which should allow us to assess 
the progress made.
Lastly, I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
the  representatives  of  Australia  and  Rwanda  for  their 
excellent work in facilitating the preparation of this draft 
resolution. Our thanks also go to the representatives of 
the Office of the Special Representative of INTERPOL 
to the United Nations for the valuable technical advice 
they provided throughout the negotiations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
accordance with resolution 44/6, of 17 October 1989, I 
now call on the observer of the Council of Europe.
Mr.  Zehnder  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 
Switzerland  welcomes 
imminent  adoption  of 
draft  resolution  A/71/L.17,  which  will  lead  to  a 
closer  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the 
Mr.  Jagland  (Council  of  Europe):  This  year,  for 
the tenth time, the General Assembly will adopt a draft 
resolution  (A/71/L.15)  on  the  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe.  The 
16-39494
17/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
first-ever  such  resolution,  resolution  55/3,  adopted  in 
October  2000,  contained  11  paragraphs;  this  year’s 
draft  resolution  has  nearly  30.  There  have  also  been 
qualitative  developments,  as  we  cooperate  on  many 
more issues today.
The United Nations is a major partner of the Council 
of  Europe  and  an  ideal  platform  for  global  outreach. 
We work closely with a large number of United Nations 
bodies.  The  universality  of  our  values  constitutes  the 
basis of our cooperation.
The  relationships  between  our  organizations  are 
focused on, but not limited to, human rights in a broad 
sense.  Emphasis  is  placed  on  cooperation  with  the 
Human Rights Council, in particular in the framework 
of the Universal Periodic Review, to which the Council 
of  Europe  contributes  regularly  and  actively  with 
respect  to  its  member  States. We  see  broad  synergy 
between  the  development  of  the  jurisprudence  of 
the  European  Court  of  Human  Rights  and  the  quasi-
jurisprudence  of  the  United  Nations  treaty  bodies, 
as  well  as  the  guidance  emanating  from  special 
procedures mandate-holders and the Universal Periodic 
Review. Despite slight differences, the overall direction 
of  the  two  organizations’  vectors  is  the  same  and 
includes  addressing  new  challenges  arising  from  new 
technologies, as in, for example, the area of information 
technology. It also includes challenges that are emerging 
owing  to  changes  in  our  societies,  for  example,  from 
the terrorist threat and the need to respect human rights 
while tackling terrorism, and a shared reflection on the 
increasing sensitivity of the human rights community 
for the rights of various groups at risk, such as the Roma, 
persons  with  physical  and  intellectual  disabilities  or 
migrants in an irregular situation.
After those general considerations, let me address 
the particular issue of the death penalty. The Council 
of Europe takes great pride in having been the driving 
force  in  making  the  European  continent  a  death-
penalty-free  zone  for  more  than  800  million  people. 
Two treaties have been central in that regard, namely, 
Protocol No. 6 to the European Convention on Human 
Rights,  which  prohibits  the  death  penalty  in  times  of 
peace,  and  Protocol  No.  13,  which  prohibits  it  in  all 
circumstances. In the last 19 years, no death sentence 
has been carried out on the territories of our 47 member 
States. Let me remind the Assembly that Belarus, the 
only European State that carries out capital punishment, 
is not a member of the Council of Europe.
In  2010,  the  European  Court  of  Human  Rights 
qualified the death penalty as inhuman and degrading 
treatment,  regardless  of 
the  circumstances  under 
which it is imposed or executed. We are proud of these 
developments. However, three member States have still 
to  meet  their  accession  commitments  and  ratify  the 
instruments I mentioned.
At  the  global  level,  we  are  pleased  to  note  that 
today  140  countries  around  the  world  have  abolished 
the  death  penalty  either  legislatively  or  in  practice. 
It  is  a  gradual  but  still  committed  shift  towards  the 
elimination of capital punishment. On the other hand, 
there has been a spike in executions, albeit in a limited 
number of countries. There has also been a resumption 
of executions in several other countries and an increase 
in executions for drug offences, including of minors.
That  is  why  the  Council  of  Europe  will  remain 
attentive and proactive, and will do so in two general 
directions. The first is with regard to our own member 
States, and the second is at the global level. We think that 
the legal framework adopted by the Council of Europe, 
as interpreted by the case law of the European Court of 
Human Rights, makes the abolition of the death penalty 
legally irreversible. However, it is very important to see 
how  citizens  will  adopt  and  come  to  share  the  values 
on  the  abolition  of  the  death  penalty.  Therefore,  we 
should invest more in long-term education, especially 
of children and young people, and present the case for 
abolition  as  an  integral  part  of  the  broader  political 
and social objective of a just, humane and democratic 
society. The issue is one of fundamental human rights.
As  to  the  global  dimension,  in  September  2016, 
the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe 
decided  to  emphasize  its  contribution  to  the  biennial 
draft  resolution  of  the  General  Assembly  on  a  global 
moratorium  on  the  use  of  the  death  penalty.  We  are 
also  continuing  to  work  with  the  European  Union  in 
that  regard.  I  believe  that  there  is  scope  to  deepen 
and expand this cooperation through concerted policy 
action that support efforts for a global moratorium and 
through  actions  that  target  particularly  unacceptable 
forms of capital punishment.
Finally,  I  thank  the  delegation  of  Estonia  and 
the  other  sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/71/PV.15  for 
promoting it.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): Pursuant 
to  resolution  51/1,  of  5  October  1996,  I  now  give  the 
floor to the Secretary General of INTERPOL.
18/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
Mr.  Stock 
(International  Criminal  Police 
Organization):  In  January  1946,  the  United  Nations, 
then  known  as  the  United  Nations  Organization,  held 
its first General Assembly in London. Six months later, 
INTERPOL, then known as the International Criminal 
Police Commission, held its fifteenth General Assembly 
in Brussels. After a difficult period for the world, the 
meeting was called to restore the Commission, which 
had  not  held  any  meetings  since  1938.  Records  show 
that  even  then  INTERPOL’s  member  countries  had 
reflected on what its relations would be with the United 
Nations.  In  the  70  years  since  then  the  global  threat 
landscape has evolved in many ways. The complexities 
in  tackling  transnational  crime  are  very  grave.  The 
trends 
indicate  ever-growing 
challenges over the horizon. In this period, enhancing 
cross-border law enforcement cooperation has become 
critical,  as  has  the  need  for  Governmental  leadership 
worldwide to support such cooperation.
in  criminal 
flows 
Finally, as an independent and neutral entity serving 
law  enforcement,  INTERPOL  must  and  will  remain 
completely  apolitical.  However,  given  the  existing 
complex  threat  landscape,  efforts  at  international 
police  cooperation  require  more  support  from  the 
political  leadership.  In  the  fight  against  twenty-first 
century  transnational  crime,  more  emphasis  should 
be placed on the responsibility Governments can take 
to  facilitate  the  work  of  law  enforcement  globally 
because,  looking  ahead,  continued  cooperation  on 
police  and  security  matters  is  increasingly  desirable 
for bringing about global peace and stability. I recently 
expressed this view to the outgoing Secretary-General, 
under whose tenure our cooperation has deepened and 
grown stronger. INTERPOL thanks Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon for his consistent support. We also look 
forward to nurturing this relationship further under the 
Secretary-General-designate.
the 
Here,  today,  the  introduction  of  draft  resolution 
A/71/L.17,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and 
International  Criminal  Police 
Organization”, marks an important step forward in the 
journey  of  our  two  organizations.  With  it,  we  move 
closer  to  supporting  INTERPOL’s  vision  of  a  safer 
world  for  our  member  countries  and  for  the  States 
Members of the United Nations.
In  conclusion,  I  want  to  recognize  the  key  role 
that the Permanent Missions of Australia and Rwanda 
played  in  facilitating  the  draft  resolution.  I  would 
also like to extend INTERPOL’s gratitude to the draft 
resolution’s  sponsors,  in  particular  the  Permanent 
Missions  of  Argentina,  Brazil,  Jamaica,  Jordan, 
Thailand  and  Switzerland,  which  greatly  assisted  in 
this important process.
In  the  end,  it  is  in  support  of  the  efforts  of  law- 
enforcement  agencies  in  190  member  countries  that 
we  stand  here  today  to  foster  synergies  for  a  safer 
world. On their behalf, let me assure the Assembly that 
international  police  cooperation  must  positively  look 
forward to the ongoing cooperation of INTERPOL with 
all relevant agencies in the United Nations system. With 
that hope and purpose in mind, INTERPOL expresses 
its gratitude to the General Assembly for giving us this 
opportunity today.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
accordance with resolution 54/5, of 8 October 1999, I 
now give the floor to the observer of the Organization 
of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation.
Serving  as  an  independent,  apolitical  entity  since 
1923,  INTERPOL  connects  law  enforcement  around 
the  globe  in  working  together  towards  a  safer  world. 
With  neutrality  enshrined  in  its  Constitution,  our 
organization enables cooperation among police forces 
of countries that do not even have diplomatic relations. 
INTERPOL  has  well-developed  policing  capabilities 
to  assist  its  global  membership,  based  strictly  on  its 
neutral  mandate  and  objectives.  The  organization 
provides a unique, trusted and secure platform to enable 
the exchange of police information across borders. This 
continues to be at the core of INTERPOL’s mandate. In 
fact, at the last INTERPOL General Assembly session, 
held  only  two  weeks  ago,  member  countries  voted 
for  new,  additional  measures  to  make  INTERPOL’s 
information-sharing system more robust.
includes 
We  also  provide  capacity-building,  analytical 
expertise  and  24/7  support  to  policing  and  law 
the  coordination  of 
enforcement,  which 
cross-border  operational  efforts.  Established 
in 
every  single  member  country,  INTERPOL’s  national 
and  central  bureaus  serve  to  facilitate  international 
police  cooperation  within  an  established  institutional 
framework. INTERPOL has three global programmes 
focusing  on  countering 
terrorism,  organized  and 
emerging crimes, and cybercrime. In these spheres of 
criminal  activities,  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  INTERPOL  is  key  to  achieving  our 
common goals.
16-39494
19/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
Mr.  Christides  (Organization  of  the  Black  Sea 
Economic  Cooperation):  As 
representative 
of  the  Permanent  International  Secretariat  of  the 
Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation.
(BSEC), I am honoured and privileged to address the 
General  Assembly  for  the  first  time  in  my  40-year 
diplomatic career.
the 
The  BSEC  organization  is  the  oldest  and  most 
institutionally  mature  international  entity  promoting 
economic  cooperation,  in  the  broadest  sense  of  the 
term,  among  its  12  member  States  and  in  the  wider 
Black  Sea  region.  Next  year,  we  will  celebrate  our 
twenty-fifth  anniversary,  which  will  culminate  in  a 
summit conference to be held in Istanbul on 30 June.
We  have  come  a  long  way  since  1992.  The 
organization’s  multifaceted  activities  have  decisively 
contributed 
to  enhancing  cooperation  and  better 
understanding in a geostrategic region of the greatest 
importance.  It  is  a  region  that  even  today  faces 
welcome challenges, but also problems that sometimes 
cast their shadow on BSEC efforts. Yet the added value 
our organization provides is that it acts as a functioning 
confidence-building mechanism and is an open window 
for dialogue and understanding.
At 
the  same 
time,  BSEC  remains  an  open 
organization,  seeking  cooperation  and  synergies  with 
other  international  bodies  and  with  individual  States. 
Over  the  years,  we  have  come  to  highly  appreciate 
our  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  and  its 
specialized  agencies,  funds  and  programmes  in  areas 
of common interest.
Draft  resolution  A/71/L.16/Rev.1,  which  has  been 
introduced for adoption today, testifies to the increased 
interaction  between  our  organizations  and  provides 
useful guidelines for our future joint endeavours. Today, 
one of the BSEC priorities is to increase its efficiency 
and  effectiveness,  enabling  it  to  be  more  results-  and 
project-oriented  for  the  benefit  of  the  peoples  of  our 
region.  In  increasing  its  project-development  and 
implementation capacity, BSEC can benefit even more 
from deepening its interaction with the United Nations 
system through concrete and focused collaborations.
bodies  has  the  knowledge  and  experience  to  help 
United Nations agencies to effectively implement their 
policies and programmes in this crucial region of our 
small world.
Before I conclude, I would like to express our sincere 
gratitude  to  the  Republic  of  Serbia  for  its  excellent 
guidance  and  solid  support  for  the  activities  of  the 
organization in its capacity as the Chairman-in-Office 
of  BSEC  during  the  second  half  of  2016  and  for 
preparing  the  draft  resolution,  which  we  hope  the 
Assembly  will  adopt  by  consensus.  I  would  also  like 
to express our appreciation to all BSEC member States 
and to the other States Members of the United Nations 
that have sponsored the draft resolution.
Allow me to take this opportunity to congratulate 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  his  strong 
leadership of the United Nations in these most turbulent 
times  in  world  history  and  for  being  the  friendly  and 
human face of the United Nations in promoting its work 
around the world. We wish him health, happiness and 
continued success in his future endeavours.
On behalf of BSEC, I would also like to congratulate 
Mr.  António  Guterres  on  his  election  to  the  highly 
prestigious  and  most  challenging  diplomatic  duty  of 
leading the United Nations. I have no doubt that, with 
his  immense  experience  as  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Refugees, Mr. Guterres will continue 
to carry the torch soon to be handed to him by Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  that  he  will  appeal  to  the 
conscience of the international community in, inter alia, 
trying to bring to an end the worst humanitarian crisis 
since the Second World War, namely, the refugee crisis.
The BSEC organization will continue to assume its 
responsibilities  in  contributing  to  peace,  security  and 
stability in our part of the world through the effective 
promotion of economic cooperation among our member 
States and beyond.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
accordance  with  resolution  59/48,  of  2  December 
2004, I give the floor to the observer of the Shanghai 
Cooperation Organization.
Allow me therefore from this rostrum to invite the 
specialized  agencies,  funds  and  programmes  of  the 
United Nations system to strengthen their cooperation 
with the BSEC family of organizations and create new 
synergies  based  on  existing  cooperation  agreements 
and  memorandums.  The  BSEC  structure  of  related 
Mr. Alimov (Shanghai Cooperation Organization) 
(spoke in Russian): At the outset, I would like to express 
my  gratitude  to  all  participants  in  today’s  General 
Assembly meeting for their support for draft resolution 
A/71/L.11,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization”. 
20/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
We  consider  this  draft  resolution  to  be  part  of  the 
comprehensive support of the international community 
for our joint efforts to maintain peace and security and 
provide the conditions for sustainable development.
This year, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization 
(SCO)  marked  its  fifteenth  anniversary.  Since  its 
founding, the organization has believed that the United 
Nations  has  been,  and  will  continue  to  be,  a  leading 
universal international structure for maintaining global 
security and a major platform for solving inter-State and 
international  issues,  as  it  stands  for  strengthening  its 
central coordinating role in international affairs. In that 
regard, we attach particular attention to furthering the 
progressive  development  of  the  relationship  between 
the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the United 
Nations and its specialized agencies.
Since  2004,  cooperation  between 
the  United 
Nations and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization has 
gradually developed to the point where it has become 
a  good  example  of  effective  cooperation  between 
universal, global and regional organizations. The draft 
resolution  opens  new  vistas  for  a  broad  spectrum  of 
cooperation,  and  it  will  help  to  fully  implement  the 
multifaceted potential of the SCO in its interaction with 
United Nations agencies.
Unfortunately,  we  have  to  acknowledge  that  the 
contemporary world is not becoming more predictable 
or  safe.  The  challenges  and  threats  are  increasing 
in  number,  while  their  essence  is  becoming  more 
complicated.  The  draft  resolution  calls  for  joining 
together in cooperation to make efforts in a broad range 
of areas. The key ones are mentioned in the programme 
documents of the two organizations, including the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  SCO 
Development  Strategy  until  2025,  which  are  aimed  at 
solving  similar  tasks  and  promoting  the  well-being 
of humankind.
The draft resolution will become a sound foundation 
for  broad  interaction  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the SCO in all directions. Consolidating and developing 
effective connections between the United Nations and 
regional organizations not only facilitates development 
of  the  regional  structures,  but  to  a  great  extent 
strengthens the United Nations itself. This fully applies 
to the cooperation between the United Nations and the 
SCO.  This  topic  was  discussed  during  the  Security 
Council thematic debate on cooperation of the United 
Nations  with  regional  and  subregional  organizations, 
held on 28 October 2016, at the initiative of the Russian 
Federation (see S/PV.7796).
problems, 
We  are  convinced  that  the  increasing  synergies 
of  the  multifaceted  cooperation  between  the  two 
organizations  will  help  to  solve  the  most  urgent 
contemporary 
including  maintaining 
global  peace  and  security  and  ensuring  sustainable 
development.  It  is  important  to  continue  the  United 
Nations  efforts  to  strengthen  and  broadening  such 
partnerships,  including  by  elaborating  well-directed 
approaches  to  cooperation  while  fully  taking  into 
account  the  needs,  local  specifics,  mandates  and 
capacities of regional organizations.
The  SCO  is  open  to  all  forms  of  mutually 
beneficial cooperation with the United Nations and is 
ready  to  continue  its  close  partnership  in  doing  joint, 
fruitful work.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
accordance  with  resolution  477  (V),  of  1  November 
1950, I now give the floor to the observer of the League 
of Arab States.
Mr.  Enani  (League  of  Arab  States)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  First  of  all,  allow  me  to  congratulate  the 
President on his election to the presidency of the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  We  are  certain 
that,  thanks  to  his  experience,  we  will  be  successful 
in our shared endeavours. The League of Arab States 
wishes  to  express  its  support  for  the  President  as  he 
strives to serve the Organization.
I  also  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for 
his unstinting efforts to serve the Organization over the 
past 10 years. I also wish to congratulate Mr. António 
Guterres,  the  new  Secretary-General-designate.  We 
wish him every success in his work, which will be full 
of challenges when he takes up his mandate next year. I 
also thank the Secretary General of INTERPOL.
The  close  cooperation  between  the  League  of 
Arab  States  and  the  United  Nations  began  in  1950, 
when  the  General  Assembly  requested  the  United 
Nations  Secretary-General  to  extend  an  invitation  to 
the  Secretary-General  of  the  League  of  Arab  States 
to attend the fifth session of the General Assembly as 
an  observer.  That  invitation  was  extended  pursuant 
to  resolution  477  (V),  of  1  November  1950.  Since 
then  cooperation  between 
two  organizations 
has increased.
the 
16-39494
21/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
In 1981, a new era of cooperation was ushered in with 
the adoption of resolution 36/24, entitled “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab 
States”.  When  the  League  of  Arab  States  asked  the 
United  Nations  Secretary-General  to  take  the  steps 
needed to bolster cooperation at all levels between the 
two organizations, the 1981 resolution provided the basis 
for evaluation. The assessment was conducted to extend 
cooperation on a vast range of issues. Since that time, 
cooperation  has  been  multifaceted  in  nature  in  order 
to respond to needs as they emerge, fulfil the vision of 
the  League  of  Arab  States  and  meet  the  political  and 
economic challenges facing the Arab world.
In  September  2016,  at  the  margins  of  the  general 
debate  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first 
session,  Mr.  Ahmed  Aboul  Gheit,  Secretary-General 
of the League of Arab States, and the United Nations 
Secretary-General signed a protocol amending the text 
of the cooperation agreement. Cooperation between our 
organizations will now change and touch upon such areas 
as conflict resolution, conflict prevention, sustainable 
development,  crime  prevention,  peacebuilding,  the 
protection  of  human  rights,  and  human  development. 
It will also cover issues relating to refugees, displaced 
persons and human rights.
With a view to this increased cooperation between 
the  League  of  Arab  States  and  the  United  Nations, 
in  October  2014,  the  second  sectoral  cooperation 
conference  between  the  two  organizations,  on  the 
ramifications  of  a  lack  of  understanding  of  human 
rights  concepts,  was  held  at  the  headquarters  of  the 
League of Arab States, in Cairo. Furthermore, in May 
2016,  in  Geneva,  the  sixteenth  cooperation  meeting 
between  the  two  organizations  was  held  in  order  to 
enhance  cooperation  between  the  two  organizations 
so  as  to  develop  an  overarching  vision  that  would 
include the review of developments in the Arab world 
and take into account the views of experts. During the 
conference,  we  also  reviewed  the  socioeconomic  and 
political concerns of the region. We adopted a series of 
programmes to be implemented between 2016 and 2018 
in the areas addressed during the meeting.
Our  two  organizations  are  strengthening  their 
partnership in a number of areas. We have built capacity 
in  elections  and  human  rights  as  part  of  a  project 
that  was  launched  together  with  the  United  Nations 
Development Programme. Other initiatives include the 
setting up of databases and a project among Arab States 
to  include  Arab  young  people  in  debates  on  social 
issues.  To  the  latter  end,  we  have  held  dialogues  in 
various forums in order not to isolate people — young 
people in particular — and to tap into their ideas and 
find  alternatives  approaches  to  dealing  with  climate 
change and other issues, including identity, the role of 
young people and their participation in resolving these 
issues. We have enjoyed fruitful cooperation with the 
Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs 
and  the  Under-Secretary-General  for  Humanitarian 
Affairs, as well as with the various specialized agencies 
of  the  United  Nations,  with  a  view  to  implementing 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  properly 
invest in young people. We must protect young people 
during armed conflicts, ensure the non-proliferation of 
weapons and strengthen human rights. Other activities 
in that connection were also debated.
Given our commitment to properly respecting the 
1945 Charter of the League of Arab States, and in the 
light  of  the  importance  that  we  attach  to  the  United 
Nations,  its  various  agencies  and  what  those  do  to 
protect  refugees,  we  must  leave  no  stone  unturned  in 
finding  a  fair  solution  to  the  refugee  crisis.  We  are 
indeed doing everything we can in that connection. We 
also  reaffirm  the  importance  of  the  appeal  launched 
by  the  Ministerial  Council  of  the  League  of  Arab 
States,  and  we  urge  the  United  Nations  Relief  and 
Works  Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near 
East  (UNRWA)  and  its  donor  countries  to  respond  to 
that appeal. Vast sums of money need to be collected 
to  support  those  refugees.  In  November,  a  high-level 
meeting on a common strategy was convened to benefit 
Palestinian children at the headquarters of the League 
of Arab States, which brought together representatives 
of UNRWA who work with Palestinian children.
Frustration reigns in the Middle East. That climate 
serves  to  demonstrate  the  vast  number  of  challenges 
we face. There is currently a great deal of turbulence 
in our region. The political climate is difficult and the 
international community has not been able to respond to 
our appeals to combat terrorism and violent extremism. 
In order to continue the efforts undertaken by the League 
of  Arab  States  to  meet  all  of  the  challenges  we  face 
in the Arab world — terrorism in Yemen, Syria, Iraq 
and Libya — and to implement and uphold the vision of 
the League of Arab States, namely, finding a peaceful 
solution to all Arab conflicts, the Secretary General of 
the League of Arab States appointed a Special Envoy on 
the issue of Libya in order to take stock of developments 
in Libya, together with the African Union. Ending the 
22/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
crisis in Libya is the ultimate aim, as well as tackling 
the scourge of terrorism in the country.
The  League  of  Arab  States  has  now  faced  the 
growing  threat  of  terrorism  for  more  than  five  years. 
Indeed,  the  use  of  social  networks  to  indoctrinate 
young people has seen a six-fold increase. Extremists’ 
obscurantist ideologies and hate speech are disseminated 
through  social  networks  in  order  to  sow  the  seeds  of 
an  ideology  that  in  no  way  fits  hand  in  glove  with 
peace-loving religions and indeed has nothing at all to 
do with any religion.
During its meetings with the Security Council, the 
League  of  Arab  States  has  therefore  underscored  the 
importance of implementing the measures necessary to 
stymie that hate speech, so as to remedy the problems 
of terrorism and the indoctrination of foreign fighters 
through  social  networks.  Terrorist  organizations  and 
their affiliates cannot sow the seeds of those extremist 
ideologies  using  social  networks  and  must  not  do  so; 
they must be stopped. They must also be stopped from 
using the media to pursue similar aims, as the Internet 
and  the  media  are  also  used  for  those  activities  The 
use  of  any  medium  to  disseminate  hate  speech  must 
be outlawed.
What  I  have  laid  out  here  gives  the  General 
Assembly  an  overview  of  our  activities  to  further 
cooperation  between  the  League  of  Arab  States  and 
the United Nations. There are programmes under way 
in  various  political,  cultural  and  legal  spheres.  To 
conclude, I wish to thank all Member States that have 
supported draft resolution A/71/L.6. I also wish to thank 
the  representative  of  Algeria  for  introducing  it.  I  call 
upon the General Assembly to adopt it by consensus.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
accordance  with  resolution  35/2,  of  13  October  1980, 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  Observer  for  the  Asian-
African Legal Consultative Organization.
Mr.  Lee 
(Asian-African  Legal  Consultative 
Organization):  I  would  like  to  refer  to  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  (A/71/160)  submitted  under  agenda 
item 126, in particular as it pertains to the cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Asian-African 
Legal Consultative Organization (AALCO).
The Asian-African Legal Consultative Organization 
includes 47 member States, as well as several observer 
States  from  other  regions  of  the  world.  It  was  one  of 
the  first  interregional  organizations  specialized  in 
international law to be granted observer status by the 
General Assembly. That step by the Assembly was in 
part  in  recognition  of  its  contribution  to  the  concepts 
of  the  exclusive  economic  zone,  archipelago  States 
and the continental shelf, which took place during the 
negotiations of the third United Nations Conference on 
the Law of the Sea in the 1970s.
AALCO  now  has  a  new  Secretary-General, 
Professor Kennedy Gastorn of Tanzania, which follows 
on from the organization’s healthy tradition of rotating 
its management leadership. One of the main purposes 
of  AALCO  is  to  promote  and  disseminate  public 
international  law.  That  is  why  AALCO  works  very 
closely  with  principal  legal  bodies,  such  as  the  Sixth 
Committee, the International Law Commission and the 
United Nations Commission on International Trade Law 
(UNCITRAL). Much of the subject matter considered 
by  those  core  legal  bodies  is  also  considered  and 
studied by AALCO. Such topics include, for example, 
the  law  of  the  sea,  counter-terrorism,  sustainable 
development, climate change and cybercrime. Results 
of the deliberations are published and are available on 
the  organization’s  website.  In  that  context,  AALCO 
would like to thank in particular the Secretary-General 
and his Office and the Office of Legal Affairs for their 
support and cooperation.
AALCO  also  has  several  regional  arbitration 
centres  and  uses  the  arbitration  rules  promulgated 
by  UNCITRAL.  The  results  of  the  arbitration  are 
well  received  and  form  a  firm  basis  for  the  conduct 
of  trade  in  the  relevant  regions.  At  United  Nations 
Headquarters, 
the  Permanent  Observer  organizes 
seminars,  workshops  and  informal  consultations  on 
topics  of  international  law  of  common  interest  on  a 
regular basis with zero budget. Those events are open to 
all missions, delegations and the Secretariat; inclusive 
and open discussions are the objective. Judges, jurists, 
scholars and practitioners visiting New York are invited 
to actively take part in those activities. AALCO serves 
as  a  forum  for  intellectual  stimulation  and  the  free 
exchange of views.
The  General  Assembly  has 
initiated  many 
significant  activities,  including  the  setting  up  of  a 
new management mechanism for marine diversity and 
genetic  resources.  As  it  has  done  before,  AALCO  is 
ready  to  assist  in  building  a  functional,  competitive 
and  sustainable  legal  regime  for  managing  such 
resources  in  the  international  ocean  area  beyond 
national jurisdiction.
16-39494
23/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on agenda item 126 
and its sub-items (a) to (z). We will now consider draft 
resolutions  A/71/L.5,  A/71/L.6,  A/71/L.7,  A/71/L.9, 
A/71/L.11, A/71/L.12, A/71/L.14, A/71/L.15, A/71/L.16/
Rev.1 and A/71/L.17.
Before giving the floor to speakers for explanations 
of vote or position before we take decisions on the draft 
resolutions, may I remind delegations that explanations 
are  limited  to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
Mrs.  Kanchaveli  (Georgia):  I  take  the  floor  to 
express  my  delegation’s  position  on  draft  resolution 
A/71/L.5,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and 
the  Commonwealth  of  Independent 
States”  (CIS),  and  draft  resolution  A/71/L.7,  entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Collective Security Treaty Organization” (CSTO).
In the text of the draft resolution on the CSTO, the 
General Assembly
“[n]otes  with  appreciation 
the  significant 
practical contribution and efforts of the Collective 
Security  Treaty  Organization  to  strengthen  its 
peacekeeping capacities and the system of regional 
security and stability” (A/71/L.7, para. 2);
while the draft resolution on the CIS suggests that
(A/71/L.5, 
the  United  Nations” 
“strengthening  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Commonwealth  of  Independent 
States  will  advance  the  purposes  and  principles 
seventh 
of 
preambular paragraph).
In  that  regard,  Georgia  wishes  to  recall  the 
ongoing  illegal  occupation  of  the  Georgian  regions 
of  Abkhazia  and  Tskhinvali  Region/South  Ossetia  by 
the  Russian  Federation,  which  is  a  member  of  both 
the  CIS  and  the  CSTO,  the  continuous  militarization 
of those regions and the policy of factual annexation, 
conducted  in  breach  of  international  law,  including 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  the 
misuse of the mandate of the CIS peacekeeping mission 
both  in  Abkhazia  and  the  Tskhinvali  Region/South 
Ossetia over the years. Therefore, my delegation cannot 
endorse the draft resolutions mentioned and would like 
to  disassociate  itself  from  the  consensus.  We  request 
that the Secretariat reflect this statement in the records 
of this plenary meeting for both draft resolutions.
Mr.  Lupan  (Republic  of  Moldova):  I  will  speak 
about draft resolution A/71/L.5, entitled “Cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Commonwealth of 
Independent States” (CIS).
The  Republic  of  Moldova  supports  the  promotion 
of cooperation between the United Nations and regional 
organizations in advancing the purposes and principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations. We believe that 
regional organizations play an essential role in fostering 
partnerships  with  a  view  to  addressing  economic  and 
development issues, in a more targeted and cooperative 
way,  among  countries  sharing  common  borders  or 
economic  interests.  The  Republic  of  Moldova  will 
continue  to  promote  and  support  initiatives  aimed  at 
the modernization of economies in the Commonwealth 
of  Independent  States  region,  in  the  development 
of  transport  infrastructure,  the  free  movement  of 
people  and  cooperation  in  the  area  of  anti-terrorism. 
We  also  expect  the  complete  and  non-discriminatory 
implementation  of  the  free  trade  agreement  within 
the  Commonwealth  of  Independent  States,  signed  in 
October 2011.
As  stated  at  the  summit  of  CIS  leaders  held  in 
Bishkek  in  September,  the  Republic  of  Moldova  is 
strongly  interested  in,  and  calls  for,  the  elimination 
of all barriers to commercial activities for the benefit 
of  all  participating  countries  in  this  regional  forum, 
as  well  as  for  meaningful  inter-State  cooperation  in 
the  humanitarian,  cultural  and  social  fields.  With 
regard  to  the  agenda  item  discussed  today,  we  took 
note of the activities outlined in the report (A/71/160) 
of 
regarding  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  CIS  and  which 
provides information about the various exchanges and 
contacts  with  the  CIS  secretariat  in  matters  relating 
to  anti-terrorism  measures,  statistics  and  the  cross-
boundary effects of industrial activities.
the  Secretary-General 
While joining the consensus on the draft resolution 
regarding the cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Commonwealth of Independent States, we wish 
to  reiterate  the  fact  that,  because  of  its  reservations 
about  the  regulations  on  the  chairmanship  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States,  adopted  on 
10  October  2008,  the  Republic  of  Moldova  does  not 
recognize the international legal personality of the CIS 
and its relations with other international organizations. 
Therefore, the adoption of this draft resolution shall not 
be interpreted as a deviation from those reservations. I 
24/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
would appreciate having this clarification reflected in 
the records of this meeting.
Mr.  Al  Arsan  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  My  country,  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
believes  that  dangerous  and  undemocratic  practices 
are  marring  the  working  methods  in  the  League  of 
Arab  States  as  a  result  of  the  illegal  and  illegitimate 
policies  and  attitudes  adopted  by  the  Governments 
of certain States members of that organization with a 
view  to  controlling  the  election  and  decision-making 
mechanisms and the working methods of that regional 
organization. The League of Arab States has therefore 
gone beyond its goals to respect the independence and 
sovereignty  of  States,  to  safeguard  the  principle  of 
non-interference in their internal affairs, to pursue the 
maintenance  of  regional  and  international  peace  and 
security and to defend the interests of peoples, and is 
instead  exerting  economic  and  humanitarian  pressure 
on  them.  For  all  those  reasons,  the  delegation  of  the 
Syrian Arab Republic would like to request that draft 
resolution A/71/L.6 be put to a vote.
My  country  also  believes  that  malpractice  is 
marring  the  working  methods  of  the  Organization  of 
Islamic Cooperation (OIC) owing to the attempts by the 
Governments  of  certain  States  to  flagrantly  interfere 
in  its  election  and  decision-making  mechanisms  and 
the working methods of that organization as well. That 
has made the OIC face risks that jeopardize some of its 
declared  goals  when  it  comes  to  justice  and  equality 
between  member  States  with  regard  to  respecting 
the  independence  and  sovereignty  of  States  and  the 
principle  of  non-interference  in  their  internal  affairs. 
For  all  of  those  reasons,  the  delegation  of  the  Syrian 
Arab Republic would like as well for the draft resolution 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation” to be put to 
a vote.
Mr.  Yelchencko  (Ukraine):  Before  the  General 
Assembly proceeds to the adoption of draft resolution 
A/71/L.5,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Commonwealth of Independent States” 
(CIS), I would like to make the following statement.
In general, Ukraine supports cooperation between 
the United Nations and regional and other organizations 
with  regard  to  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  We  consider  such  cooperation  to  be 
an  important  condition  for  the  effective  settlement 
of  conflicts  and  the  promotion  of  peace  and  security. 
Unfortunately,  that  is  not  the  case  with  the  CIS.  To 
our  disappointment,  that  organization  demonstrated 
its  complete  failure  to  take  appropriate  measures  to 
respond to the Russian aggression in Ukraine. The CIS 
is still pretending that there is no Russian aggression, 
no  illegal  occupation  of  Crimea  and  no  war  crimes 
committed  by  the  Russian  Federation.  At  the  same 
time, I would like to make a short clarification.
I  am  speaking  about  the  CIS  as  an  organization. 
We are very grateful to some of its members for their 
non-recognition of the attempted annexation of Crimea. 
Their voices are important in our common efforts aimed 
at defending the Charter of the United Nations.
I would also like to remind the General Assembly 
that Ukraine has not signed the decision of the Council 
of  Heads  of  State  of  the  CIS  of  24  December  1993, 
concerning  certain  measures  to  ensure  international 
recognition of the CIS with regard to granting observer 
status  for  the  CIS  at  the  General  Assembly.  In  not 
doing so, Ukraine acted on the basis of the statement 
delivered  on  20  December  1991  of  the  Parliament  of 
Ukraine  concerning  the  conclusion  of  the  agreement 
on  the  CIS,  which  stated  that  Ukraine  declined  to 
grant  the  Commonwealth  the  status  of  a  subject  of 
international law.
The delegation of Ukraine must also draw attention 
to the fact that the basic documents of the CIS — namely, 
the  Agreement  on  the  Establishment  of  the  CIS,  the 
Alma  Ata  Declaration  and  the  CIS  Charter  —  do  not 
qualify  the  status  of  the  Commonwealth  as  one  with 
the features of a subject of international law. The CIS 
is a special international, interregional formation that 
not  only  lacks  definite  status,  but  actually  includes  a 
military and political alliance established on the basis 
of  the  Tashkent  agreement  on  collective  security  of 
15 May 1992, which binds only some members of the 
Commonwealth.
My delegation would also like to draw the attention 
of the Assembly to the fact that some provisions of the 
draft resolution do not correspond in full to the realities 
on the ground. In particular, paragraph 1 of document 
A/71/L.5 notes that
“the activities of the Commonwealth of Independent 
States  to  strengthen  regional  cooperation  in  such 
areas as trade and economic development”,
while the Russian Federation has undertaken targeted 
illegal and discriminatory steps on trade with Ukraine. 
16-39494
25/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
With respect to Ukraine, it unilaterally suspended the 
Free Trade Area Treaty of 18 October 2011 — concluded 
within  the  CIS  —  as  well  as  introduced  prohibitions 
and  restrictions  on  imports  of  Ukrainian  agricultural 
products, raw materials and food supplies, prohibitions 
and  limitations  on  freedom  of  transit  of  international 
cargo transit from Ukraine through the territory of the 
Russian Federation to the territories of the Republic of 
Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic. The prohibition 
and limitation by the Russian Federation of the transit 
through  its  territory  of  Ukrainian  goods  violate  the 
freedom  of  transit  under  article  V  of  the  General 
Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade  of  1994  and  the 
customs valuation of the World Trade Organization.
We  must  also  draw  attention  to  the  provision  of 
paragraph  1  concerning  the  combating  of  terrorist 
acts  and  manifestations  of  extremism.  We  express 
our disappointment that, although the Commonwealth 
positions  itself  as  an  active  fighter  against  terrorism 
and  extremism,  it  has  displayed  a  total  absence  of 
response  to  the  actions  of  one  of  its  most  influential 
members — the Russian Federation, an aggressor and 
occupier country that controls, finances and directs the 
illegal  armed  groups  in  certain  areas  of  the  Donetsk 
and  Luhansk  regions  of  Ukraine,  supplying  them 
military equipment and weapons. That Russian policy 
constitutes  a  serious  threat  to  international  peace 
and security.
that 
the  understanding 
In  those  circumstances,  Ukraine  will  abstain  in 
the  voting  on  draft  resolution  A/71/L.5  exclusively 
on 
its  adoption  should 
not  be  interpreted  as  a  de  jure  recognition  of  the 
Commonwealth as a regional arrangement, as defined 
in Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter, bearing 
responsibilities for dealing with matters relating to the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  in 
particular for enforcement action under the authority of 
the Security Council.
Cyprus  attaches  particular  importance  to  enhancing 
the  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  Council  of  Europe  in  their  shared  endeavours  to 
promote  and  protect  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms  in  the  world,  and  welcomes  in  that  respect 
the upcoming adoption of today’s draft resolution. The 
assumption of the chairmanship comes at a time when 
our  world  faces  several  challenges  —  war,  economic 
disparities,  underdevelopment,  poverty,  migratory 
flows,  terrorism,  the  rise  of  populism,  xenophobic 
rhetoric and extremism — that test our democracies and 
shake public trust in State and international institutions. 
The chairmanship will be carried out under the general 
theme  “Reinforcing  democratic  security  in  Europe” 
and  will  focus  on  rights  and  freedoms  for  all  people 
without any discrimination, democratic citizenship and 
the prevalence of the rule of law.
the 
Our  priorities  include  the  protection  of  cultural 
heritage  from  wanton  destruction  and 
illicit 
trafficking of cultural goods, as we see more and more 
incidents  wherein  antiquities  are  being  targeted  by 
terrorism and violent extremism or are being stolen and 
used to finance terrorism; the issue of migrants being 
held in reception centres, and sometimes in detention 
centres;  the  role  of  education  in  fostering  democratic 
citizenship;  the  role  of  youth  in  peacebuilding  and 
intercultural  dialogue;  the  promotion  of  equal  rights 
and improving the quality of life and independence of 
people with disabilities; dealing with homophobic and 
transphobic hate crimes; and the protection of human 
rights in the biomedical field.
In  general,  our  focus  will  be  on  issues  that  have 
been at the epicentre of recent and ongoing discussions 
of the United Nations. We hope that we will encourage 
and  promote  cooperation  and  synergies  between  the 
United Nations and the Council of Europe, leading to 
enhanced  democratic  stability  and  the  promotion  of 
human rights.
Ms.  Aristitelous  (Cyprus):  In  relation  to  draft 
resolution  A/71/L.15,  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
the United Nations and the Council of Europe”, Cyprus 
aligns itself with the statement delivered on behalf of 
the European Union and would like to add the following 
in its national capacity.
Mr.  Samvelian  (Armenia):  Armenia  commends 
the 
the  Estonian 
leadership  and  competence  of 
delegation  in  negotiating  draft  resolution  A/71/L.15, 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  Council  of  Europe”,  and  welcomes  the  consensus 
reached on it.
Cyprus  will  assume  the  chairmanship  of  the 
Committee  of  Ministers  of  the  Council  of  Europe 
from  22  November  until  19  May  2017,  for  the  fifth 
time  during  its  membership  to  the  organization. 
As  a  member  of  the  Council  of  Europe,  Armenia 
reiterates  the  crucial  role  of  the  organization  as  an 
important  regional  platform  for  cooperation  and 
a  repository  of  legal  and  practical  knowledge  and 
26/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
expertise in promoting democracy, the rule of law and 
good  governance,  and  protecting  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  at  the  regional  and  national 
levels. Since its independence 25 years ago, including 
in the past 15 years of its full membership in the Council 
of  Europe,  Armenia  has  been  a  strong  beneficiary 
of,  and  contributor  to,  such  cooperation.  The  Council 
of  Europe  has  developed  sound  and  effective  legal 
foundations,  norms  and  standards  for  promoting  the 
declared objectives.
Armenia  underlines 
the  valuable  partnership 
between the Council of Europe and the United Nations, 
which in essence gives prominence to the universality of 
human rights and the common objectives of promoting 
democracy and the rule of law. We encourage continued 
cooperation among the Council of Europe and various 
organs  of  the  United  Nations,  including  the  Human 
Rights Council and its special procedures, the United 
Nations  human  rights  treaty  bodies  and  the  Office  of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights.  The  Council  of  Europe  has  firmly  positioned 
itself as a valuable contributor to the Universal Periodic 
Review process of the Human Rights Council.
The Council of Europe, together with other regional 
organizations  in  Europe,  provides  sound  foundations 
for  effective  and  advanced  regional  cooperation  in 
the areas of human rights, democracy and the rule of 
law and in assisting member States in promoting those 
objectives at the national level. Such strong foundations 
at the regional level should provide an opportunity for 
due  assessment  of  the  effective  and  efficient  division 
of  labour  between  regional  and  global  frameworks  of 
cooperation  and  scope  of  engagement  at  the  national 
level by the respective organizations. This is important 
for  the  effective  use  of  the  available  resources  of  the 
organizations, which are known to be limited, and for 
avoiding the duplication of effort.
While  engaging  in  negotiations  on  the  draft 
resolution under consideration, Armenia was guided by 
the objective of fully retaining basic European values 
reflected in the draft while maintaining full respect of 
all human rights and fundamental freedoms, including 
the freedom of expression and opinion and the freedom 
of  media,  specification,  inter  alia,  the  promotion  and 
protection of journalism and the safety of journalists.
We  regretfully  note,  however,  that  Armenia’s 
proposals  were  not  properly  reflected  in  the  text 
during the negotiations of the draft resolution both in 
Strasbourg  and  New  York.  The  choice  of  venues  for 
organizing  cooperation  forums  has  become  a  very 
sensitive issue, especially when the venue turns out to 
be  a  country  that,  although  a  member  of  the  Council 
of Europe and the United Nations, consistently violates 
the human rights of its people, shuts out Government 
opponents,  imprisons  journalists  and  human  rights 
defenders,  and,  furthermore,  promotes  hatred  and 
intolerance  towards  other  nations  and  peoples  at  the 
highest level.
Such is the case with the choice of Baku as the host 
of the first Global Forum on Youth Policies. The Baku 
Commitment to Youth Policies was adopted without a 
representative of Armenia attending the forum simply 
because the presence of an Armenian in Baku represents 
a serious physical security risk. That is a result of the 
consistent Armenophobia promoted by the Government 
of  Azerbaijan,  which  glorifies  all  sorts  of  atrocities, 
including the beheading of Armenians.
Finally,  the  cooperation  between  the  Council 
of  Europe  and  the  United  Nations  is  poised  to  be  the 
subject  of  added  value  and  prominence  in  the  light 
of  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. Within its respective areas of competence, 
the  Council  of  Europe  is  strongly  positioned  to 
assist  its  member  States  in  the  implementation  of  the 
2030  Agenda,  including  in  particular  Sustainable 
Development Goal 16.
In  reiterating  its  strong  support  for  the  continued 
cooperation  between  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the 
United Nations, Armenia remains a perennial sponsor 
of this draft resolution and calls upon all members to 
adopt it by consensus.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard the last speaker in explanation of vote or position 
before we take decisions.
I now call on the representative of the Syrian Arab 
Republic on a point of order.
Mr.  Al  Arsan  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  I  just  wish  to  clarify  any  possible  confusion 
or  error  with  regard  to  the  symbols  of  the  two  draft 
resolutions.  We  are  requesting  votes  on  the  draft 
resolution on cooperation between the United Nations 
and  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  on  the  draft 
resolution on cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
16-39494
27/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now take a decision on draft resolutions 
A/71/L.5,  A/71/L.6,  A/71/L.7,  A/71/L.9,  A/71/L.11, 
A/71/L.12,  A/71/L.14,  A/71/L.15,  A/71/L.16  and 
A/71/L.17.
Draft resolution A/71/L.5 is entitled “Cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Commonwealth of 
Independent States”. May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to adopt it?
Draft resolution A/71/L.5 was adopted (resolution 
71/10).
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Draft 
resolution  A/71/L.6  is  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
the United Nations and the League of Arab States”.
I give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of draft resolution A/71/L.6 
and  in  addition  to  the  delegations  listed  in  the  draft 
resolution,  the  following  countries  have  also  become 
sponsors  of  A/71/L.6:  El  Salvador,  Italy,  Poland, 
Portugal, Spain and Sweden.
The  present  statement  is  made  in  accordance 
with  rule  153  of  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  will  be  made  available  in  the 
PaperSmart portal.
Under  the  terms  of  paragraphs  1  and  4  of  draft 
resolution  A/71/L.6,  the  General  Assembly  would, 
respectively,  request  the  Secretariat  of  the  United 
Nations and the League of Arab States to consider the 
possibility  of  forming  a  high-level  working  group  to 
follow up on the implementation of the provisions of the 
protocol on amendment of the text of the cooperation 
agreement  between  the  two  organizations  until  a 
liaison  office  of  the  League  of  Arab  States  is  opened 
in  Cairo,  with  the  aim  of  improving  and  achieving 
further coordination between the two organizations in 
the fields addressed in the protocol; and emphasize the 
importance of holding the thirteenth sectoral meeting 
between  the  two  organizations  and  their  specialized 
agencies,  in  2017,  concerning  cooperation  on  the 
preservation and management of water resources in the 
Arab  region,  and  the  fourteenth  general  cooperation 
meeting  between  the  two  organizations  and  their 
systems during 2018, for which the dates and venue will 
be agreed upon in due course.
Pursuant to paragraph 1 of the draft resolution, it is 
understood that a liaison office is expected to be opened. 
In the absence of specific details on the establishment 
of  the  liaison  office,  it  is  not  possible  at  the  present 
time to estimate the potential cost implications of the 
requirements for the liaison office. Upon the decision 
on the establishment of the liaison office and the related 
staffing  and  operational  requirements,  the  Secretary-
General  would  submit  the  relevant  costs  of  such 
requirements in accordances with rule 153 of the rules 
of procedure of the General Assembly.
With regard to the request contained in paragraph 4, 
it is understood that all issues related to the two meetings,  
including  the  dates,  venue,  format,  organization  and 
scope,  are  yet  to  be  determined.  Accordingly,  in  the 
absence of modalities for the meetings, it is not possible 
at  the  present  time  to  estimate  the  potential  cost 
implications of the requirements for the meetings and 
documentation. Upon the decisions on the modalities, 
format and organization of the meetings, the Secretary-
General  would  submit  the  relevant  costs  of  such 
requirements in accordance with rule 153 of the rules 
of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly.  Furthermore,  
the dates of the meetings will have to be determined in 
consultation with the Department for General Assembly 
and Conference Management.
Accordingly,  the  adoption  of  draft  resolution 
A/71/L.6  would  not  give  rise 
to  any  financial 
implications  under  the  programme  budget  for  the 
biennium 2016-2017.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  A 
recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Andorra, 
Argentina, 
Algeria, 
Armenia, 
Azerbaijan,  Bahrain,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Bosnia 
and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cameroon, 
Canada,  Chile,  China,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech 
Republic,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Finland,  Georgia,  Greece, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Hungary, 
(Islamic 
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, 
Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Libya, 
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Maldives, Malta, Mexico, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Myanmar, 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nigeria,  Oman, 
Pakistan,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru,  Philippines, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Iran 
28/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda, 
San  Marino,  Saudi  Arabia,  Serbia,  Singapore, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain,  Sudan,  Sweden, 
Switzerland,  Tajikistan,  Thailand, 
the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Togo,  Tunisia, 
Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, 
United States of America
Against:
None
Abstaining:
Central  African  Republic,  Congo,  Germany, 
Indonesia, Syrian Arab Republic
Draft resolution A/71/L.6 was adopted by 84 votes 
to none, with 5 abstentions (resolution 71/11).
India, 
[Subsequently,  the  delegations  of  El  Salvador, 
France,  Germany, 
Italy,  Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of  )  and  Poland  informed  the 
Secretariat that they had intended to vote in favour.]
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Draft 
resolution  A/71/L.7  is  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
the United Nations and the Collective Security Treaty 
Organization”. May I take it that it is the wish of the 
General Assembly to adopt it?
Draft resolution A/71/L.7 was adopted (resolution 
71/12).
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Draft 
resolution  A/71/L.9  is  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
the United Nations and the Central European Initiative”.
I give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr. Nakano (Department for General Assembly and 
Conference Management): I should like to announce that 
since the submission of the draft resolution, in addition 
to those delegations listed in the document, Georgia has 
become a sponsor of draft resolution A/71/L.9.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May 
I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft 
resolution A/71/L.9?
Draft resolution A/71/L.9 was adopted (resolution 
71/13).
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Draft 
resolution A/71/L.11 is entitled “Cooperation between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Shanghai  Cooperation 
Organization”. May I take it that the Assembly decides 
to adopt it?
Draft resolution A/71/L.11 was adopted (resolution 
71/14).
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Draft 
resolution A/71/L.12 is entitled “Cooperation between 
the United Nations and the Organization for Democracy 
and Economic Development”.
I give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution,  in 
addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  the  document, 
Poland  has  become  a  sponsor  of  draft  resolution 
A/71/L.12.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May 
I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft 
resolution A/71/L.12?
Draft resolution A/71/L.12 was adopted (resolution 
71/15).
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Draft 
resolution A/71/L.14 is entitled “Cooperation between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization”. May I take it that the Assembly decides 
to adopt it?
Draft resolution A/71/L.14 was adopted (resolution 
71/16).
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Draft 
resolution A/71/L.15 is entitled “Cooperation between 
the United Nations and the Council of Europe”.
I give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution,  in 
addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  the  document, 
Armenia  and  Mexico  have  become  sponsors  of  draft 
resolution A/71/L.15.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May 
I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft 
resolution A/71/L.15?
Draft resolution A/71/L.15 was adopted (resolution 
71/17).
16-39494
29/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Draft 
resolution  A/71/L.16/Rev.1  is  entitled  “Cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Black Sea Economic 
Cooperation Organization”.
I give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution,  in 
addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  the  document, 
the  following  countries  have  become  sponsors  of 
draft  resolution  A/71/L.16/Rev.1:  Austria,  Hungary, 
Montenegro and Spain.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May 
I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft 
resolution A/71/L.16/Rev.1?
Draft  resolution  A/71/L.16/Rev.1  was  adopted 
(resolution 71/18).
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Draft 
resolution A/71/L.17 is entitled “Cooperation between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  International  Criminal 
Police Organization”.
I give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution,  in 
addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  the  document, 
the  following  countries  have  become  sponsors  of 
draft resolution A/71/L.17: Albania, Algeria, Andorra, 
Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, China, 
Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Georgia, Hungary, Israel, 
Italy,  Jamaica,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malawi, 
Malta, Mexico, Monaco, Nauru, the Netherlands, New 
Zealand,  Norway,  Panama,  the  Philippines,  Poland, 
Portugal,  Romania,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Serbia, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia, Ukraine and Uruguay.
Also in connection with draft resolution A/71/L.17, 
I  wish  to  put  on  the  record  the  following  statement 
of  financial  implications  on  behalf  of  the  Secretary-
General,  which  is  also  available  on  the  PaperSmart 
portal,  in  accordance  with  rule  153  of  the  rules  of 
procedure of the General Assembly.
In  paragraph  5  of  draft  resolution  A/71/L.17,  the 
General  Assembly  would  request  that  the  Secretary-
General  submit  to  the  General  Assembly,  at  its 
seventy-third  session,  a  report  on  the  implementation 
of the resolution. It is anticipated that the request will 
constitute an addition to the documentation workload of 
the Department for General Assembly and Conference 
Management  of  one  document  of  8,500  words,  to  be 
issued in all six official languages, which would entail 
additional  requirements  in  the  amount  of  $37,600  for 
documentation services in 2018. Accordingly, should the 
General Assembly adopt draft resolution A/71/L.17, the 
additional resources requirement of $37,600 that would 
arise for 2018 under section 2, “General Assembly and 
Economic  and  Social  Council  affairs  and  conference 
management”,  will  be 
the  proposed 
programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019.
included 
in 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May 
I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft 
resolution A/71/L.17?
Draft resolution A/71/L.17 was adopted (resolution 
71/19).
The Acting President  (spoke in Spanish):  Before 
giving  the  floor  to  speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  or 
position on the resolutions just adopted, I should like to 
remind delegations that explanations of vote are limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr.  Samvelian  (Armenia):  While  my  delegation 
joined in the consensus on resolution 71/15, we would 
like  to  express  our  concern  about  the  fact  that  one 
of  the  resolution’s  main  sponsors,  Azerbaijan,  has 
regularly misused the Organization for Democracy and 
Economic Development in order to present its distorted 
interpretation of the process for resolving the conflict 
in Nagorno Karabakh. That does not contribute in any 
way  to  the  negotiations  conducted  in  the  framework 
of the agreed format of the Organization for Security 
and Cooperation in Europe Minsk Group co-chairship, 
on  the  basis  of  purposes  and  principles  enshrined  in 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  —  specifically,  the 
non-use or threat of use of force, the self-determination 
of peoples, and countries’ territorial integrity.
Ms.  Aristotelous  (Cyprus):  Regarding  resolution 
71/16,  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
the  United 
Nations and the Economic Cooperation Organization”, 
my  delegation  would  like  to  state  for  the  record  that 
Cyprus  dissociates  itself  from  the  consensus  on  the 
resolution for the following reasons.
In operative paragraph 2, the resolution takes note 
of the Baku Declaration, issued at the twelfth Economic 
30/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
Cooperation Organization (ECO) summit meeting of its 
Heads of State and/or Government, held on 16 October 
2012 in Azerbaijan. The Baku Declaration endorsed the 
report of the Organization’s Council of Ministers at their 
twentieth meeting and instructed the Secretary General 
of ECO to ensure that the report was fully implemented.
We are informed that the report recommends that 
the so-called Turkish Cypriot State be given observer 
status  in  the  Economic  Cooperation  Organization. 
The Baku Declaration in effect calls on the Secretary 
General of ECO to act contrary to Security Council and 
General Assembly resolutions on Cyprus, particularly 
Security Council resolutions 541 (1983) and 550 (1984), 
which state that the declaration of a purported secession 
of  part  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  is  legally  invalid 
and  call  for  its  withdrawal.  By  those  resolutions,  the 
Security Council condemns all secessionist acts, calling 
on all States to respect the sovereignty, independence 
and  territorial  integrity  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus 
and not to recognize any Cypriot State other than the 
Republic  of  Cyprus.  The  Council  also  urges  States 
not to facilitate or assist the secessionist entity in any 
way. In that regard, I would also like to recall General 
Assembly  resolutions  3212  (XXIX)  and  37/253,  of 
1983, which call on all States to respect the sovereignty, 
independence and territorial integrity of the Republic 
of Cyprus.
resolutions  by 
My  delegation  reiterates  those  calls  made  by 
the  United  Nations  to  the  States  members  of  the 
Economic  Cooperation  Organization.  We  urge  them 
and the Secretary General of ECO not to act contrary 
to  United  Nations 
implementing 
the  recommendation  to  accord  observer  status  to  a 
secessionist  entity.  We  have  decided  not  to  break  the 
consensus on today’s resolution on cooperation, based 
on  the  good  faith  and  spirit  of  cooperation  displayed 
by  its  sponsors  during  the  informal  negotiations  on 
the  text.  We  hope  that  same  spirit  will  be  displayed 
in  response  to  the  call  we  have  just  made,  that 
the  Economic  Cooperation  Organization  and 
its 
member  States  will  re-evaluate  their  position  on 
the  issue  and,  in  consideration  of  their  cooperation 
with  the  United  Nations,  act  in  compliance  with  our 
Organization’s Charter.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard the last speaker in explanation of vote or position 
after the voting.
I now give the floor to those representatives who 
wish to speak in exercise of the right of reply. I would 
like to remind members that statements in exercise of 
the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first 
intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the  second,  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Aliyev (Azerbaijan): The irrelevant statements 
made  by  the  representative  of  Armenia  with  regard 
to  two  of  the  resolutions  just  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly  are  examples  of  its  attempts  to  create  an 
erroneous impression of the real situation and deflect 
the  international  community’s  attention  from  the 
urgent  need  to  address  the  chief  problems  caused  by 
Armenia’s  continued  aggression  against  Azerbaijan. 
Armenia’s  allegations  of  so-called  Armenophobia  are 
not  worthy  of  criticism.  Suffice  it  to  say  that,  unlike 
Armenia  —  which  has  implemented  a  policy  of  total 
ethnic cleansing of all non-Armenians in both its own 
territory  and  the  occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan, 
and  has  thereby  succeeded  in  creating  a  uniquely 
mono-ethnic  culture 
them  —  Azerbaijan  has 
preserved its ethnic and cultural diversity to this day.
in 
The  representative  of  Armenia  asserted  that  his 
country was not represented at one of the international 
conferences held in Baku and mentioned in resolution 
71/17,  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Council  of  Europe.  However,  he  passed  in 
silence  over  the  fact  that  many  Armenians,  including 
Armenian citizens, visited Azerbaijan both before and 
after that conference in order to participate in various 
international conferences and sports events held there. 
If  there  is  anywhere  in  the  world  that  is  insecure  for 
the  citizens  of  Armenia,  it  is  their  own  country, 
Armenia itself.
The 
international  community  has 
repeatedly 
expressed its indignation at the Armenian leadership’s 
undisguised  promotion  of  odious  notions  of  racial 
superiority  and  ethnic  and  religious  incompatibility, 
and  its  expressions  of  hatred  towards  Azerbaijan  and 
others  of  its  neighbours,  while  the  relevant  United 
Nations  bodies  and  other  international  organizations 
have repeatedly expressed their serious concerns about 
the spirit of intolerance that prevails in Armenia and the 
discriminatory  policies  and  practices  it  pursues.  The 
direct involvement of the current political and military 
leadership  of  Armenia,  including  its  incumbent  and 
former  Presidents,  in  the  brutal  massacres  conducted 
during  its  aggression  against  Azerbaijan  that  claimed 
the lives of thousands of Azerbaijani civilians, including 
16-39494
31/33
A/71/PV.48 
21/11/2016
children,  women  and  the  elderly,  is  well  known  and 
thoroughly  documented.  Against  that  background,  it 
is  curious  that  the  representative  of  Armenia  should 
criticize and lecture others on notions that are a priori 
alien to his country’s policy and practice.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  recall  some  of  the 
relevant  decisions  and  documents  of  international 
organizations, 
including  General  Assembly  and 
Security  Council  resolutions,  condemning  Armenia’s 
use  of  force  against  Azerbaijan  and  calling  for  an 
end  to  the  occupation  of  Azerbaijani  territories.  I  am 
confident that a careful reading of those documents and 
decisions  would  convince  the  delegation  of  Armenia 
to refrain from wasting time by making irrelevant and 
out-of-context statements in the future.
Mr. Samvelian (Armenia): It should be emphasized 
that many conflicts, including that in Nagorno Karabakh, 
are the result of systematic violations of human rights, 
aggravated  by  precarious  situations  where  the  rule  of 
law is concerned. Countries that violate human rights 
systematically and unapologetically tend to be part of 
the problem rather than the solution when it comes to 
resolving such conflicts. Azerbaijan’s appalling human 
rights  record  and  totalitarian  tendencies  are  a  case  in 
point.  Obviously,  no  country,  including  one  that  acts 
aggressively,  will  accept  that.  Such  countries  would 
rather  blame  their  opponents  for  unleashing  military 
aggression, and that is the case with Azerbaijan.
Nonetheless,  I  do  not  want  to  engage  in  lengthy 
discussions  with  Azerbaijan,  and  our  point  was  made 
pretty  clearly  when  we  spoke  from  the  rostrum.  I 
would  just  like  to  respond  briefly  to  the  mention  of 
my  country’s  leadership  in  Azerbaijan’s  statement. 
I  understand  the  jealousy  of  the  representative  of 
Azerbaijan,  a  country  that  has  been  led  by  a  single 
family for almost 50 years. Meanwhile, we in Armenia 
have a President who is democratically elected for no 
more than two terms of office. That should be enough 
for  Azerbaijan  to  understand  the  difference  between 
the situations in Armenia and Azerbaijan, which should 
not even be compared with each other.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
remind speakers once again to limit their statements to 
five minutes.
Mr. Aliyev (Azerbaijan): The remarks just made by 
the representative of Armenia are distorting, as well as 
self-contradictory in their substance and unacceptable 
in  their  tone.  He  goes  so  far  as  to  lecture  other 
Member States on principles and values that in fact his 
Government consistently disregards and opposes.
In  reality,  the  primary  objective  of  the  ongoing 
peace  process  aimed  at  resolving  the  conflict  in  and 
around the Nagorno Karabakh region of Azerbaijan is 
to  ensure  the  unconditional  and  complete  withdrawal 
of  Armenia’s  armed  forces  from  the  region  and  the 
other  occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan,  along  with 
the  exercise  by  the  forcibly  displaced  population  of 
their  inalienable  right  to  return  to  their  homes  and 
properties.  Rather  than  wasting  time  and  misleading 
both its own people and the international community, 
the  Government  of  Armenia  should  reconsider  its 
unconstructive position, which will become more and 
more difficult to stick to. The sooner that happens, the 
sooner the conflict will be resolved and the countries 
and peoples of the region benefit from the prospects of 
cooperation and economic development.
Mr. Samvelian (Armenia): I will be brief. In order to 
demonstrate its commitment to the peaceful settlement 
of  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  conflict,  Azerbaijan  should 
as a first step engage immediately and unconditionally 
in  the  implementation  of  the  agreements  reached  in 
Vienna and Saint Petersburg in May and June. A refusal 
to implement them will leave it with the burden of full 
responsibility  for  the  lack  of  progress  in  settling  the 
Nagorno Karabakh peace process.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  I 
take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of sub-items (d), (i), (l), (o), 
(u), (v), (w), (x) and (y) of agenda item 126?
It was so decided.
The Acting President  (spoke in Spanish):  Before 
concluding the meeting, however, I would like to appeal 
to  those  Member  States  intending  to  submit  draft 
resolutions on the remaining sub-items to do so as soon 
as possible.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda  item  126  and  its 
remaining sub-items.
Programme of work
(spoke 
The  Acting  President 
in  Spanish): 
Finally,  I  should  like  to  consult  members  regarding 
an  extension  of  the  work  of  the  Second  Committee. 
Members  will  recall  that  at  its  2nd  plenary  meeting, 
on 16 September 2016, the General Assembly approved 
32/33 
16-39494
21/11/2016 
A/71/PV.48
the recommendation of the General Committee that the 
Second  Committee  complete  its  work  by  Wednesday, 
23  November.  However,  I  have  been  informed  by  the 
Chair  of  the  Second  Committee  that  the  Committee 
requests  an  extension  of  its  work  to  Wednesday, 
30 November, in view of the fact that such an extension 
would  facilitate  reaching  consensus  on  the  pending 
resolutions before the Committee.
May I therefore take it that the General Assembly 
agrees  to  extend  the  work  of  the  Second  Committee 
until Wednesday, 30 November 2016?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1.35 p.m.
16-39494
33/33
