United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
12th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 21 September 2016, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.12
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Nalbandian 
(Armenia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
a better world, are indeed the ultimate objectives of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Address by Ms. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, 
President of the Republic of Croatia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Croatia.
Ms.  Kolinda  Grabar-Kitarović,  President  of  the 
Republic of Croatia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations Her Excellency Ms. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, 
President of the Republic of Croatia, and to invite her to 
address the Assembly.
President Grabar-Kitarović: “We want a future in 
which everyone lives a happy life and loves one another”. 
Those words were recently written in the Book of Ideas
by a six-year-old boy named Lovro when he visited my 
office along with a number of other children to mark the 
beginning of the new school year in Croatia. But they 
could easily have been written by any child in the world. 
It is a simple, yet powerful, wish. In order to transform 
our world, we as leaders must listen to Lovro’s words. 
And for that reason I want his voice to be heard today 
in the General Assembly. Everyone can agree that those 
simple  truths,  among  which  are  the  right  to  a  happy 
life and the freedom of choice, as universal drivers of 
A year has passed since we adopted the milestone 
Agenda  2030,  and  we  are  now  one  step  and  one  year 
closer to its deadline. Today, in terms of achievements 
and responsibilities, I would like to address sustainable 
development  by  focusing  on  human  potential,  natural 
resources and resilient societies.
We  have  all  signed  onto  the  Agenda,  our  plan  of 
action for people, planet and prosperity. People should 
be  at  the  heart  of  our  efforts,  with  youth  at  the  very 
core.  Our  goal  as  leaders  is  to  empower  our  youth 
through  education  and  give  them  opportunities  to  be 
the  catalysts  of  transformation  and  progress.  Now  is 
the time to start viewing our youth as the guardians of 
Agenda 2030, because in 14 years whatever progress we 
have achieved will be theirs to carry on.
I  would  agree  with  many  who  argue  that  even 
today, in 2016, we must decide whether we opt for open 
or  closed  societies.  Whatever  we  do  to  safeguard  the 
future  should  be  done  with  determination,  with  clear 
choices in mind. 
There  is  much  work  to  be  done.  We  must  begin 
by  restoring  public  confidence  in  Governments  and 
international  organizations.  We  must  embrace  our 
common  values  with  strength,  courage  and  true 
conviction — beginning with tolerance — and become 
active and dedicated builders of a world where there is 
no room for despair.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29453 (E)
*1629453*
A/71/PV.12 
21/09/2016
True  inclusiveness  means  more  than  just  being 
open  to  cooperation  and  raising  awareness  from 
time  to  time.  It  should  be  a  continuous  search  for 
consensus,  nationally  and  internationally,  and  the 
active  involvement  of  all  stakeholders  in  building 
new  strategic  alliances.  There  is  an  evident  need  for 
ending the prevailing silo approach, if we are to achieve 
synergies when implementing mutually interdependent 
goals.  Security,  prosperity  and  human  rights  go 
hand-in-hand and cannot be separated.
According  to  the  latest  UNICEF  statistics,  over 
50 million children are currently uprooted, and almost 
60  million  children  do  not  have  access  to  primary 
education.  Those  children  are  counting  on  us  to  give 
them the chance they deserve. We should not act only 
when  moved  by  images,  such  as  those  of  the  Syrian 
boys Aylan and Omran, which are true symbols of our 
world gone horribly wrong.
The  optimism  and  resilience  shown  by  children 
and, most of all, their unbridled honesty are qualities 
that I respect and admire. All children should have the 
right to their childhood and education. It is devastating 
to know how many children could not begin class this 
autumn because they are victims of the various global 
crises that we allow to persist.
In  terms  of  unlocking  global  human  potential, 
I  believe  that  if  we  want  to  give  future  generations 
a  chance  for  a  better  life  by  2030,  we  must  address 
three  main,  mutually 
reinforcing,  phenomena: 
large-scale  migrations,  demographic  dynamics  and 
youth unemployment. We need a predictable, humane, 
responsible  and  legally  sound  system  of  governing 
international  migration.  Croatia  commends  the  New 
York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants (resolution 
71/1), which the General Assembly adopted on Monday, 
as  well  as  the  Agenda  for  Humanity  presented  at  the 
World  Humanitarian  Summit  in  Istanbul  last  May. 
Implementing  them  together  with  Agenda  2030  will 
help us address the root causes of the large movements 
of people. On that issue we need not minimize anyone’s 
dignity  or  rights,  nor  underestimate  the  perils  that 
surround them.
global crisis of human mobility and, as such, it requires 
a global response. 
We must end the policy of double standards and the 
hypocritical approach to the tragedy that is unfolding 
as we speak. We must help those who have managed to 
leave the fields of destruction, but we must also do our 
utmost to assist those who have stayed behind and are 
left with no means of or strength to escape.
All societies, developed and underdeveloped alike, 
are currently facing not only one generation, but several 
generations, of youth that are unemployed, disappointed 
and discouraged, while others are trying to escape from 
conflict, violence and intolerance. They are extremely 
sceptical about their future and become easy prey for 
all kinds of manipulation and radicalization.
and  modern 
Social  media 
communications 
technology are becoming a double-edged sword. They 
provide  us  with  unparalleled  opportunities,  making 
the  world  interconnected  in  ways  that  only  yesterday 
few  dared  to  dream  of.  At  the  same  time,  they  carry 
the  dark  potential  to  spread  hatred  and  intolerance 
and  build  invisible  walls  around  those  who  look  or 
think  differently.  We  must  pay  special  attention  to 
that  possibility  and  find  the  prudence  to  use  new 
technologies  to  improve  not  only  our  daily  lives,  but 
also our hearts and minds.
Education, knowledge and tolerance are more than 
just the tools of choice when dealing with political and 
social  discrimination,  exclusion  and  the  prevention 
of  violent  extremism  and  terrorism.  They  are  the 
way  forward.  They  are  the  key  to  success  and  are 
fundamental drivers of sustainable development.
Constant  investment  in  education  systems  always 
pays back with big dividends. Ever more countries are 
recognizing the necessity of a comprehensive education 
reform,  because  too  many  current  education  systems 
are  generating  youth  who  cannot  find  employment. 
Education  has  the  power  to  multiply  opportunities. 
It  is  an  engine  that  creates  choices,  providing  every 
individual with the freedom to choose a path of his or 
her own.
Our immediate focus should be two-fold. We must 
provide assistance to both the countries of origin and 
the receiving countries in order to promote safe, regular 
and orderly migration management. We must promote 
global  efforts  to  counter  organized-crime  networks 
involved  in  human  trafficking.  What  we  have  is  a 
Gender  inequality  is  the  most  pervasive  form  of 
global inequality and a pressing human rights concern. 
Women and girls continue to be exposed to a range of 
obstacles to their complete and full inclusion in social, 
economic  and  political  life.  There  will  be  no  real 
progress  without  a  gender-responsive  implementation 
2/25 
16-29453
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.12
of  Agenda  2030.  For  us  to  succeed  we  need  more 
women  in  politics  and  business,  in  diplomacy  and  on 
executive boards. But that will not happen without men. 
Their role in the empowerment of women, their support 
and understanding, are as crucial as the will of women 
to succeed.
This  year,  Croatia  is  chairing  the  Equal  Futures 
Partnership  —  an  innovative  multilateral  initiative 
aimed  at  encouraging  Member  States  to  empower 
women  economically  and  politically.  The  high-level 
meeting of its members and supporters will take place 
tomorrow. I invite all those present to find the time to 
pay due attention to that endeavour.
take 
Nature  is  just  as  irreplaceable  as  people  are. 
Development  strategies  must  seriously 
into 
account  our  natural  resources  as  the  fundamental 
starting point. Climate change is a powerful weapon of 
mass destruction that is going out of control. We have 
very little time to reverse that self-destructive course. 
Climate  change  is  also  a  risk  multiplier  for  other 
security  challenges,  including  large-scale  migrations 
and  regional  instability  born  out  of  hopelessness  and 
desolation.  We  must  ensure  climate  action  and  make 
sure that the recent Paris Agreement enters into force 
as soon as possible.
As  a  country  on  the  northern  shores  of  the 
Mediterranean, Croatia is following the developments 
across that cradle of our civilization with care and deep 
concern. The southern Mediterranean has, sadly, become 
a sea of dangerous journeys, where the legendary tales 
of the classical world are being replaced by new stories 
of  human  suffering,  where  ancient  monuments  are 
being reduced to dust and where indifference to human 
life  sometimes  reaches  an  unimaginable  scale.  The 
stability, security and well-being of the Mediterranean 
remain a priority of Croatian foreign policy.
Our societies are exposed to a complex global security 
environment  with  increased  mutual  dependencies. 
There is a whole range of hybrid threats to national and 
international  security:  violent  extremism,  terrorism, 
foreign 
terrorist  fighters,  uncontrolled  migration, 
organized crime, risks related to the cyberenvironment, 
and the malicious use of new technologies. Large-scale 
migrations and unemployment are interconnected, just 
as failed States and fragile Governments are related to 
conflict.
every country, causing millions of people to leave their 
homes in search of safety and prosperity. We need to 
strengthen the resilience of our societies at the grass-
roots  level,  particularly  the  fabric  of  multicultural 
and  multi-confessional  societies,  against 
terrorist 
propaganda, attempts at violent radicalization and other 
extremist actions. In addition to our efforts to promote 
sustainable  and  long-term  de-radicalization  and  fight 
terrorist  narratives,  especially  those  in  cyberspace, 
we  need  to  address  the  underlying  socioeconomic 
drivers  of  terrorism,  such  as  poverty,  inequality, 
unemployment,  the  lack  of  education  and  the  lack  of 
economic prosperity.
threats 
that 
When  countering  global 
impede 
the  emergence  and  growth  of  resilient  societies,  the 
issue  of  disarmament  must  remain  at  the  forefront. 
Recently,  we  achieved  success  in  the  development 
and  implementation  of  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  and 
the  Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions.  At  the  same 
time,  large  parts  of  the  United  Nations  disarmament 
machinery  are  stalled.  The  2015  Review  Conference 
of  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons remains a case in point. In our quest 
for a more secure global community, we must spare no 
effort in the field of the non-proliferation of weapons of 
mass destruction. 
Twenty years have passed since the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty was opened for signature, but 
we still need to invigorate our determination to become 
a  nuclear-test-free  world.  New  technologies  and  the 
fourth industrial revolution are changing our lives for 
the better in more ways than one. However, they also 
have  a  negative  impact  on  security  and  disarmament. 
Technologies  such  as  3-D  printing  are  changing  the 
algorithm  in  the  area  of  conventional  weapons,  and 
the  misuse  of  cyberspace  might  have  unforeseen 
consequences in the chemical, biological, radiological 
and nuclear areas. We must therefore broaden our reach 
when it comes to disarmament topics and align it with 
new realities.
Croatia  considers  participation  in  international 
missions and operations to be a principal duty that can 
contribute  to  peace.  In  that  regard,  we  are  preparing 
to  place  the  Croatian  Army  Engineering  Horizontal 
Construction  Company  at  the  disposal  of  United 
Nations peacekeeping operations.
Terrorism continues to represent not only a security 
concern,  but  also  a  detrimental  economic  factor  for 
Today,  on  the  International  Day  of  Peace,  it  is 
necessary  to  emphasize  that  women  are  powerful 
16-29453
3/25
A/71/PV.12 
21/09/2016
agents of peace and security. We must not treat women 
only  as  victims  of  conflict  and  violence.  Women  are 
powerful agents of change. Their growing contribution 
to the prevention and resolution of conflict, as well as 
to the maintenance of a sustainable and inclusive peace, 
should  be  encouraged.  More  female  peacekeepers 
could help us combat sexual violence, promote gender 
awareness  among  the  host  nations’  populations  and 
improve  relationships  with  local  citizens.  In  order  to 
contribute to that goal, Croatia is conducting a United 
Nations training course for women police officers from 
Asia, Africa and Europe. The course is organized back-
to-back with predeployment military training in order to 
enhance the synergy between the military and civilian 
sectors  by  integrating  the  gender  and  multicultural 
aspects of peacekeeping.
We commend the Secretary-General for advancing 
the responsibility to protect. Over the past 10 years, a 
lot has been accomplished in building consensus around 
that  concept  and  strengthening  the  will  and  capacity 
for  its  implementation.  Croatia  advocates  the  further 
strengthening of the role of the International Criminal 
Court  so  that  it  can  assume  greater  responsibility  in 
prosecuting mass atrocities and war crimes, including 
criminal  acts  against  cultural  heritage  committed 
by  State  or  non-State  actors.  We  believe  that  it  is  of 
paramount  importance  to  put  an  end  to  the  culture 
of  impunity.  And  that  must  be  done  without  any 
politicization,  without  putting  daily  politics  above 
the  rule  of  law  and,  certainly,  without  rewriting  or 
misinterpreting history.
justice.  Establishing 
It  is  through  hard-earned  wisdom  that  we  lave 
learned that there can be no true justice without peace 
or  peace  without 
individual 
accountability  through  strong  evidential  and  legal 
norms is essential. International tribunals and judicial 
mechanisms  can  lay  the  foundations  needed  to  make 
the  voices  of  victims  heard  and  to  record  volumes  of 
evidence  in  the  annals  of  history,  but  it  is  up  to  each 
society to bring the process of reconciliation to its end.
Respect for, and the protection of, human rights is 
a  prerequisite  for  sustainable  peace  and  development. 
Our  work  in  that  area  should  never  end.  We  strongly 
support  and  advocate  the  Human  Rights  Up  Front 
initiative.  Through  its  candidacy  for  membership  in 
the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the  period  2017-2019, 
Croatia looks forward to constructively contributing to 
and strengthening the Council’s work in the promotion, 
protection and further development of human rights.
Croatia will continue to be actively engaged in the 
United  Nations  reform  process.  We  commend  recent 
progress in the process of electing the next Secretary-
General and strengthening the Office of the President 
of  the  General  Assembly.  However,  the  Organization 
is  still  lagging  behind  in  terms  of  what  is  expected 
concerning Security Council reform, as highlighted by 
the  number  of  ongoing,  prolonged  and  nascent  crises 
in  the  world.  We  have  great  expectations  for  the  next 
Secretary-General.  We  hope  that  she  or  he  will  give 
bold  impetus  to  the  processes  of  carrying  forward 
our  Organization,  making  it  even  more  effective, 
accountable, transparent and, above all, more relevant.
The  world  has  been  yearning  for  inspirational 
and  effective  leadership.  The  solidarity  of  our  global 
society  is  deteriorating  as  problems  pile  up  and  hope 
diminishes.  Will  we  accept  that  we  are  creating  a 
world led by feelings of separation, fear and cynicism 
because we have allowed violence, injustice and crises 
to prevail? Or will we reverse those trends and choose 
to achieve a better tomorrow?
Fourteen years from now, our children will not ask 
us what we planned together or what we signed up to 
do. Instead, they will ask us what we achieved together 
and whether we made a difference. And we as leaders 
need  therefore  to  inspire  our  citizens  again  and  act 
together today.
I want to end with a message to all of the children 
in  Croatia  and  in  the  world:  their  voices  provide  us 
with guidance and serve as an obligation for all of us 
who  gather  here  at  this  permanent  meeting  point  of 
humankind.  Lovro  may  only  be  6  years  old,  but  his 
voice  resonates  today  in  the  General  Assembly  Hall, 
and he is making a difference.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Croatia for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Kolinda  Grabar-Kitarović,  President  of  the 
Republic of Croatia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Medina Sánchez, President of the 
Dominican Republic
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Dominican 
Republic.
4/25 
16-29453
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.12
Mr.  Danilo  Medina  Sánchez,  President  of  the 
Dominican Republic, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome His Excellency 
Mr. Danilo Medina Sánchez, President of the Dominican 
Republic, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Medina Sánchez (spoke in Spanish): It 
is  an  honour  to  participate  once  again  in  the  General 
Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  people  of  the  Dominican 
Republic.  I  wish  to  begin  my  remarks  with  a  special 
recognition  of  the  work  of  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon.  We  appreciate  his  dedication  in  the  search 
for solutions to the conflicts that have shaken the world 
over the past 10 years, and we wish him the best of luck 
in the new tasks that he will undertake.
The year 2016 is proving to be especially turbulent, 
with  territorial  conflicts  and  open  identity-related 
tensions  in  various  parts  of  the  world.  We  hope  and 
insist, of course, that the international community will 
find a peaceful outcome to those conflicts — first and 
foremost  for  the  sake  of  the  millions  of  lives  that  are 
affected  by  them.  Sometimes  the  urgency  inherent  in 
those  tragedies  weakens  our  commitment  to  address 
problems  that  appear  to  be  less  pressing  but  are  the 
most important in the long term.
One such issue, with perhaps the largest scope and 
greatest  potential  for  long-term  transformation,  is  the 
fight against poverty and inequality. Over the past two 
decades, the rapid economic growth brought about by 
economic globalization has fuelled high expectations in 
the countries of the South. In fact, it was believed that 
the prosperity enjoyed by a few countries might finally 
be  within  everyone’s  reach.  It  should  be  recognized 
that those hopes were not unfounded. Indeed, over the 
course  of  those  two  decades,  hundreds  of  millions  of 
people were lifted out of poverty.
But  we  cannot  let  ourselves  be  carried  away  by 
excessive  optimism.  We  have  an  obligation  to  clarify 
the scope of those gains in the light of the actual data. 
We  must  also  expand  our  horizons  to  observe  those 
places and areas where globalization has not kept the 
promises made to humankind.
To  begin  with,  we  must  remember  that  all  of  the 
hundreds  of  millions  of  people  who  were  recently 
lifted  out  of  poverty  did  not  automatically  become 
part  of  the  middle  class,  nor  did  all  who  were  able 
to  do  so  necessarily  remain  there.  We  have,  then,  a 
new  social  segment,  a  segment  that  has  already  been 
lifted  out  of  poverty,  but  whose  position  is  much  too 
fragile for us to consider it definitive. The word used 
to  describe  the  situation  of  those  men  and  women  is 
“vulnerability”  —  vulnerability  to  unemployment,  to 
the illness of a family member, to an economic crisis 
or  a  natural  disaster,  and  vulnerability  to  a  series  of 
unforeseen events that could ruin their prospects for the 
future and return them to poverty in just a short time.
That  vulnerable  group  now  includes  more  than 
1.5 billion people around the world, who represent more 
than 22 per cent of the world’s population, according to 
United Nations statistics. That population is especially 
large  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  where  the 
majority of people earn between $4 and $10 a day. The 
challenge  that  we  face  is  to  strengthen  the  position 
of  that  emerging  class.  We  must  provide  them  with 
security  and  give  them  the  tools  and  skills  enabling 
them  not  only  to  develop  their  own  lives,  but  also  to 
participate in the development of their countries.
Let there be no doubt that new social class offers 
a  great  opportunity  for  our  nations.  Because  of  its 
expanded  capacity  for  consumption  and  its  ability  to 
save, that social class has the potential to become, as 
has  already  been  noted,  an  economic  growth  bonus, 
similar  to  the  so-called  demographic  boom  that  our 
countries  have  seen  as  well.  To  bolster  the  emerging 
middle  class  will  require  more  complex  and  better-
quality  products  in  all  sectors,  from  infrastructure  to 
education. The path of that class to progress will enable 
our countries and the entire world to progress.
But in order to realize all of that potential, we must 
strengthen the safety nets and social supports in the areas 
of  health,  education,  employment  and  social  security, 
so as to keep vulnerable individuals from falling back 
into poverty. If we take that opportunity, not only can 
those  men  and  women  leave  their  difficulties  behind 
forever, but they can also convert their countries into 
middle  class,  democratic  and  peaceful  societies  with 
less need to emigrate abroad. In other words, they can 
be the key to far-reaching changes on our continent.
Within the framework of the Assembly, the post-2015 
development agenda, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development with its Sustainable Development Goals, 
provides a good road map for many of the challenges 
that we face in Latin America, the Caribbean and the 
world. Our country believes that it is important to work 
16-29453
5/25
A/71/PV.12 
21/09/2016
every day to reduce suffering and to develop strategies 
to  ensure  that  the  path  out  of  poverty  is  a  path  of  no 
return.  However,  in  order  to  accomplish  those  goals, 
in  order  to  lift  people  out  of  poverty  —  hundreds  of 
millions  of  people  —  more  is  needed  than  merely 
adopting a series of formulas and indicators.
Profound  changes  must  urgently  be  made  to 
the  methods  by  which  trade  and  financial  flows  are 
carried  out.  That  is  to  say,  it  is  necessary  to  revise 
the rules of the game between rich countries and poor 
countries.  We  are  talking  about  trade.  We  live  in  an 
age  of  unprecedented  trade  openness.  My  country, 
the Dominican Republic, like many others, has signed 
free trade agreements with the major economic blocs, 
which ought to be mutually beneficial — and in many 
cases they are. However, if I may say so in all honesty, 
there  are  times  when  the  developed  countries  engage 
in hypocrisy. After more than half a century in which 
those  countries  were  protected  from  everything  that 
other countries were able to produce better, now those 
countries  refuse  to  reduce  protectionism  within  their 
borders, whereas under the free trade agreements they 
require  that  from  their  counterparts  in  developing 
countries.  They  want  us,  the  developing  countries,  to 
eliminate our protections on industrial goods, but they 
do not eliminate agricultural subsidies.
For  the  next  five  years,  for  example,  the  United 
States  will  provide  an  average  of  $97.8  billion 
annually  to  support  its  agricultural  sector,  and  in  its 
multi-year subsidy policy for the period 2014-2020, the 
European Union will devote €408 billion to subsidize 
its  agricultural  sector.  The  agricultural  protectionism 
practised by rich countries allows them to influence the 
market in their favour, while tariffs and trade barriers 
routinely exclude products from developing countries.
In  addition,  other  non-tariff  barriers,  such  as 
phytosanitary  regulations,  are  not  transparent;  they 
also create additional barriers to farmers in developing 
countries  seeking  to  enter  the  global  market.  The 
developed  countries  have  allowed 
those  market 
distortions  to  persist  and  have  continued  to  make 
rhetorical  statements  in  favour  of  free  trade.  They 
should, rather, take concrete steps to attain the ideal of 
genuine free and fair trade.
Recently,  countries  such  as  ours  that  have  signed 
on to free trade agreements have been forced to revise 
the terms of our existing agreements because of such 
protectionist practices that create situations of unequal 
competition.  If  the  industrialized  countries  want  to 
be true to their word, they must agree to significantly 
reduce  their  protectionism  and  their  subsidies  during 
current trade negotiations and, at the same time, ensure 
increased funding for rural development.
Just as we should seek greater fairness in trade, we 
must also ensure that financial flows serve as partners 
of  development  and  productivity.  For  some  time  now, 
we have been living in an economy where the financial 
sector  is  becoming  increasingly  important.  That  is  a 
reality  that  brings  as  many  opportunities  as  dangers. 
We  were  all  able  to  see,  for  example,  how  a  purely 
financial crisis like the one that broke out in the 2008, 
following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, was able 
to jeopardize years or decades of development efforts 
in many of our countries.
We  have  also  had  the  opportunity  to  confirm 
how  the  free  movement  of  capital  can  be  used  for 
the  purposes  of  tax  evasion  or  money-laundering. 
The  Dominican  Republic,  like  many  of  the  countries 
present  in  the  Assembly  today,  can  only  benefit  from 
more stable, predictable and better regulated financial 
markets. Therefore, this year, we have begun to adopt 
the  anti-money  laundering  recommendations  of  the 
Financial Action Task Force of Latin America. Those 
measures  include  greater  supervision  of  financial 
institutions, greater transparency of the legal status of 
persons,  ensuring  the  legitimate  ownership  of  assets, 
transfers,  documenting  retention 
monitoring  wire 
policies,  creating  a 
international 
cooperation  and  providing  mutual  legal  assistance, 
among  other  measures,  for  making  the  Dominican 
banking system safer and more transparent.
framework 
for 
the 
It  is  worth  noting  that  news  such  as  the  recent 
European  Union  ruling  ordering 
technology 
company  Apple  to  pay  €13  billion  in  unpaid  taxes 
plainly demonstrates a reality that we have long known, 
namely,  that  tax  havens  do  not  necessarily  exist  only 
in sunny Caribbean countries. Quite the contrary, the 
great majority are under the jurisdiction of the richest 
countries.  Moreover,  contrary  to  the  widespread  idea 
that tax havens are merely places to conceal money, they 
are primarily platforms from which to conduct financial 
and trade operations in global capital markets. That is 
to  say,  it  is  not  money  stowed  under  the  mattress  but 
rather an integral part of the real economy that siphons 
resources from it and robs States of their prerogative of 
fiscal sovereignty.
6/25 
16-29453
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.12
The  lack  of  regulation  has  paved  the  way  for  tax 
evaders  and  has  made  the  work  of  tax  authorities 
more  complex.  It  constitutes  a  major  threat  to  State 
funding  worldwide,  which  undermines  the  ability  of 
Governments  to  meet  their  enormous  responsibilities 
to  their  citizens.  We  therefore  applaud  any  initiatives 
that promote greater regulation of tax havens. We also 
know that the regulation of tax havens must be part and 
parcel of a larger system of effective public regulation 
and monitoring of financial markets, so that they can 
serve the real economy and its citizens.
It  is  our  responsibility  to  continue  to  try  to  lift 
millions  of  people  out  of  poverty,  but  we  must  do 
so  by  setting  education,  health,  employment  and 
social-security  policies  that  build  on  past  successes 
and  enable  us  to  forge  ahead.  We  will  continue  to 
be  committed  to  the  global  exchange  of  goods  and 
services, but let us ensure that those exchanges are fair 
and on a level playing field. We will open the floodgates 
of  investment,  thereby  multiplying  possibilities  for 
production, research and growth, but let us also ensure 
fairness  and  transparency  so  that,  in  the  medium  and 
long  term,  our  investment  and  growth  will  be  in  the 
service of the vast majority rather than a select few.
Let us build the necessary consensus to humanize 
the global economy. Let us bring the openness that we 
demand in finance to the regulation of migration flows. 
Let  us  use  the  same  creativity  and  enthusiasm  that 
we  bring  to  launching  lucrative  businesses  to  finding 
solutions for those most in need. The millions of people 
who have recently emerged from poverty are the best 
proof  that  great  things  can  be  achieved  when  there 
is  political  will.  Those  millions  of  men  and  women 
are  also  our  best  partners  and  the  primary  reason  to 
continue  our  work.  We  have  made  great  strides,  but 
there is a long road ahead of us. The steps ahead will 
require  boldness  and  honesty.  We  must  do  away  with 
taboos,  rethink  paradigms  and  redefine  the  rules  of 
the  game.  Our  country  is  committed  to  substantially 
reducing inequalities, but not only between the richest 
and  poorest  inhabitants  of  our  countries,  but  also  in 
reshaping the international relations between poor and 
rich countries.
Let us sit together for a dialogue based on mutual 
respect, equality and for the common good, without any 
privileges. Let us do so convinced that that is the only 
way that humankind can prevail. The time of zero-sum 
games  is  over.  It  is  time  for  all  of  us  to  add  value.  It 
is time to form alliances that seek to build and where 
all  allies  are  equal.  The  international  community  can 
always count on the Dominican Republic to help along 
that path and to work in the service of the vast majority, 
who needs us.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Dominican Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Danilo  Medina  Sánchez,  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Maithripala Sirisena, President of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Mr.  Maithripala  Sirisena,  President  of 
the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Maithripala  Sirisena, 
President  of  the  Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri 
Lanka, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Sirisena  (spoke  in  Sinhalese;  English 
text provided by the delegation): I am extremely happy 
to take part in the seventy-first session of the General 
Assembly as the President of Sri Lanka.
I  would  like  to  convey  the  current  situation  in 
my  country.  For  the  past  20  months,  my  leadership 
has  helped  usher  in  a  new  era  of  social,  political  and 
economic transformations in my country. Before I came 
to power, people in my country were living in fear and 
suspicion. I have laid the foundation for strengthening 
the rule of law and restoring democratic rights for the 
people of Sri Lanka so that they can live happily in a 
free  and  democratic  society.  My  Government  seeks 
to  make  the  people  of  Sri  Lanka  among  the  happiest 
people  on  Earth.  To  that  end,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
strengthen  freedom  and  democracy  while  achieving 
economic prosperity. The Government is committed to 
making the people of Sri Lanka a developed nation.
Poverty  is  a  global  challenge.  I  am  determined 
to  alleviate  poverty  in  my  country.  I  have  therefore 
declared 2017 to be the Year of Eliminating Poverty in 
Sri  Lanka.  I  have  developed  a  basic  platform  to  help 
16-29453
7/25
A/71/PV.12 
21/09/2016
people emerge from poverty in a country that prioritizes 
economic  progress.  The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  serves  as  the  guiding  principles  for  all 
nations and institutions, led by the United Nations, to 
bring  about  the  economic,  social  and  environmental 
transformations that will make the world a better place. 
In that regard, we recognize that economic development 
plays a key role, and that environmental sustainability, 
particularly  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change, 
will  remain  a  main  pillar  in  our  endeavour  to  bring 
about  the  necessary  changes  in  my  country.  With  the 
educated  younger  generations  in  mind,  Sri  Lanka’s 
national  development  strategy  will  give  prominence 
to  building  a  green  and  innovation-based  economy 
through progressive reforms and planning.
As  an  island  nation,  Sri  Lanka  wishes  to  make 
maximum  use  of  its  ocean  resources,  with  a  new 
emphasis  on  ocean  research,  tourism,  fisheries  and 
marine  resources.  The  Government  seeks  to  further 
improve  the  free  health-care  and  education  systems, 
while providing greater technology to agriculture and 
domestic industry, so as to ensure that our people live 
better lives.
In many parts of the world, we see the unfortunate 
proliferation of anger, hatred, brutality and conflict. I 
would say that contemporary society is experiencing a 
crisis of morality. I believe that all States should heed 
the  cry  for  moral  values  and  that  every  society  must 
dedicate  itself  to  raising  the  level  of  positive  moral 
values.
Sri Lanka is a Buddhist country where Theravada 
Buddhism  is  practiced.  The  teachings  of  the  Buddha 
help us find solutions to many of the burning issues of 
the contemporary world. Similarly, I am sure that the 
wisdom offered by the great world religions — such as 
Christianity, Hinduism, Islam and others — can help us 
today. I am therefore of the view that we as States must 
strengthen and foster those religions and philosophies 
that help us look inward.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  draw  the  attention  of 
this gathering to a significant obstacle in our progress 
as the world community, that is, the menace of drugs 
and intoxicants that has beset society, including youth 
and schoolchildren. As the President of Brazil pointed 
out  (see  A/71/PV.8),  illicit  drugs  have  become  the 
most  serious  challenge  faced  by  society  today.  While 
endorsing his ideas, I would urge the world community, 
the United Nations and all States to commit to fighting 
illegal  drugs  collectively  and  individually  through  a 
robust international programme that is more organized 
and stronger than the one currently in place.
On the domestic front, my Government has taken 
effective measures to strengthen democracy, the rule of 
law and good governance, paving the way for positive 
change to ensure that war will never again take place 
on the soil of my country, Sri Lanka. The reconciliation 
process under way today has taken lessons learned from 
the  bitter  experience  of  a  brutal  war  that  lasted  three 
decades. The process will ensure that my country will 
never again see the cruelty of war or terrorism and that 
all communities will live peacefully in a rational and 
a free-thinking Sri Lanka. For that noble purpose, Sri 
Lanka welcomes the collaboration and blessings that it 
has  received  from  international  organizations  and  the 
international community.
Sri  Lanka  is  a  free,  independent  nation,  and  I 
intend  to  preserve  and  protect  its  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity,  in  line  with  the  policies  of  all  of 
the  other  nations  gathered  here  today.  As  such,  my 
country will seek its own recipe for the reconciliation 
process  and  the  necessary  transformation  and  reform 
efforts,  based  on  respect  for  the  essential  indigenous 
thinking  of  the  local  people.  Sri  Lanka  will  adhere 
to  a  social  democratic  policy  and  work  closely  with 
the  international  community  towards  prosperity  and 
wisdom, in line with the rest of the world. 
Following the war that traumatized the nation for 
three  decades,  we  have  started  the  journey  towards 
national reconciliation and lasting peace. However, we 
will not hurry; rather, we will tread each step with care, 
vigilance,  patience  and  persistence.  My  beloved  Sri 
Lanka has big dreams. I look forward to the blessings 
and collaboration of Member States to achieve them.
I  thank  the  United  Nations  and  its  agencies  for 
the  ongoing  support  provided  to  Sri  Lanka.  I  am 
honoured  to  mention  the  contributions  made  by  the 
outgoing  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  in 
fostering international development and strengthening 
democracy  and  human  rights.  Those  efforts  are  a 
blessing to humankind.
In conclusion, I wish to emphasize my commitment 
to  empowering  our  youth  with  the  best  knowledge  in 
the world. We are also embarking upon a reconciliation 
programme,  with  a  view  to  Sri  Lanka  becoming  an 
exemplary  democracy  in  the  world.  My  Government 
will  fulfil  its  responsibilities  towards  its  people,  and 
8/25 
16-29453
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.12
I seek Member States’ assistance and blessings in that 
noble endeavour.
painful delays in the implementation of mitigation and 
adaptation projects.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka  for  the 
statement he has just made.
the 
Mr.  Maithripala  Sirisena,  President  of 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Peter M. Christian, President 
and Head of Government of the Federated States 
of Micronesia
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President and Head of Government of 
the Federated States of Micronesia.
Mr.  Peter  M.  Christian,  President  and  Head  of 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Peter  M.  Christian, 
President  and  Head  of  Government  of  the  Federated 
States of Micronesia, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly.
President  Christian:  As  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  of 
Fiji  assumes  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventy-first  session,  I  wish  to  recognize  that 
historic occasion for Pacific islanders, and express my 
congratulations  to  him  and  his  country.  I  would  also 
like  to  thank  outgoing  President  Mogens  Lykketoft 
for  his  leadership  during  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  seventieth  session,  during  which  I  made  my  first 
appearance  here  at  the  United  Nations.  At  that  time, 
I said that holding on to the podium gave me a sense 
of security and hope that all of us were thinking in the 
same direction (see A/70/PV.22).
After  10  years  of  service,  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  deserves  great  praise  for  his  effective 
leadership,  during  which  he  championed  many  issues 
important to small island developing States, including 
generating the political momentum needed to address 
climate  change  and  his  push  to  catalyse  the  initial 
capitalization  of  the  Green  Climate  Fund.  Sadly, 
the  funds,  generously  contributed,  have  been  slow 
in  flowing  to  needy  States,  thereby  contributing  to 
The  Federated  States  of  Micronesia 
today 
celebrates  its  twenty-fifth  year  of  membership  in  the 
Organization. At the time we joined, following the end 
of the Cold War, there was a great sense of optimism 
that  the  long-standing  obstacles  to  world  peace  and 
progress  had  been  relegated  to  the  past.  Today,  while 
there has been progress towards the great goals of the 
Organization,  it  must  be  said  without  hesitation  that 
much remains to be done.
The reform of our United Nations, most important 
that  of  the  Security  Council,  has  remained  on  the 
agenda  now  for  a  quarter  of  a  century,  which  evokes 
characteristics of an era that needs forgetting. Twenty-
five years ago, the small island developing States cried 
out for action against human-induced climate change, 
while  stressing  that  we  literally  faced  extinction  as 
nations and as oceanic cultures, owing to surging sea 
levels  and  the  related  consequences.  I  must  concede 
that  our  voices  have  not  been  entirely  unheard.  We 
stand today, at last, many nations united to confront this 
dark,  glaring  reality.  However,  even  in  the  relatively 
short span of 25 years the relentless advance of climate 
change  has  outpaced  our  efforts  to  deal  with  it  —  so 
that today, while all countries must consider themselves 
vulnerable,  the  small  island  developing  States  are 
dealing with an already clear and present danger — the 
adverse impact of climate change.
Over the years of my country’s membership in this 
union of hope, we have observed what I would refer to as 
glacial progress, were it not for the fact that the glaciers 
themselves  are  now  melting.  Nevertheless,  we,  along 
with  everyone  in  this  Hall,  must  remain  committed 
to  the  great  mandates  that  we  so  boldly  assigned 
ourselves: the eradication of poverty, the advancement 
of international peace and security, universal adherence 
to human rights principles, the protection of our oceans 
and their resources, and better stewardship of our entire 
planet.
The  list  goes  on,  and  it  is  familiar  to  all  of  us. 
We  read  it  out  each  year  at  the  general  debate  and  in 
conference  halls  around  the  world.  Yet,  despite  our 
proclamations and declarations, we seem to be pivoting 
not too far from where we started. Our peoples look to 
us for progress beyond repetitive words.
On  the  issue  of  international  refugees,  Pacific 
Islanders  live  in  a  zone  that  emanates  peace,  and  it 
16-29453
9/25
A/71/PV.12 
21/09/2016
pains us that the global menace of terrorism continues 
to  spread  worldwide.  It  seems  that  we  are  helpless  to 
stop  the  tide  of  fear  and  violence  —  fear  that  affects 
millions  of  innocent  civilians,  mothers  and  fathers, 
sons and daughters, to the point that they must suppress 
their human dignity and knock on a stranger’s door to 
seek shelter from the turmoil of war. The question is, 
will we answer?
As  small  island  countries  in  the  Pacific  and  as 
members  of  this  family  of  nations,  we  plead  with  the 
Security  Council  to  take  greater  action  and  respond 
to that global crisis, if not for the mothers and fathers, 
then at least for the children, whose innocence allows 
them to play between tents and be happy at the sight of 
strange food in a bowl.
We would like to know what is happening with the 
ceasefire in Syria. Even from the Pacific, we have an 
interest in that question. What are the United States and 
Russia doing about it? What is Syria doing about it? We 
know they have the power to do more, and we ask them 
to please do so.
On the issue of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea, which is part of the Asia-Pacific region, the 
Federated States of Micronesia is concerned about the 
peace  and  long-term  stability  of  the  region.  Together 
with other nations, the Federated States of Micronesia 
condemns the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s 
ongoing  provocative  actions  and  rhetoric.  Unchecked, 
the  Pacific  Ocean,  the  same  ocean  that  we  speak  of 
saving  for  all  our  sakes,  may  become  a  battleground. 
One  truly  wonders  why  Beijing  and  Moscow  seem 
unconcerned that a missile could stray their way. I ask 
them to please intercede on behalf of all of us. On that 
note, the people of Micronesia look forward to the day 
when nuclear weapons will become a thing of the past, 
remembered only with great disdain and regret.
On  the  issue  of  Security  Council  reform,  I  have 
heard  the  phrase  “fit  for  purpose”  often  used  at  the 
United  Nations.  We  continue  to  see  the  need  for  a 
reformed United Nations that is not only fit for purpose, 
but also dynamic, changing its modus operandi to keep 
in step with changing world circumstances, accepting 
new  methods  like  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon’s 
example of a smartphone on the first day of the general 
debate  (see  A/71/PV.8),  and  needing  to  move  in  pace 
with  changes.  The  United  Nations  must  be  able  to 
focus  on  preventive  diplomacy  around  the  world  and 
not  be  limited  to  dealing  with  hot  spots.  I  totally 
agree with that position. And yes, the United Nations 
must  be  a  catalyst  for  peace  —  a  peacekeeper,  more 
than  a  peacemaker.  The  Security  Council,  entrusted 
with  the  responsibility  of  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security,  must  adapt  to  modern  times  and 
reflect  contemporary  geopolitical  realities.  However, 
as  an  arm  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Council  can  be 
credible and effective only if properly empowered and 
adequately supported by Member States. In that regard, 
the Federated States of Micronesia reiterates its support 
for the Group of Four countries being made permanent 
members of the Council.
It is interesting how we stand at this rostrum and 
talk  about  disabilities.  In  that  regard,  I  have  noticed 
that many of us leaders who come up here to speak also 
seem to have disabilities. We are colour-blind, unable 
to see the difference between green and red. I apologize 
for that, and I will try to be brief.
The  Group  of  Asia  and  the  Pacific  Small  Island 
Developing States has long advocated for climate and 
security  to  become  a  regular  focus  of  the  Security 
Council.  The  Group  also  submitted  a  proposal  on  the 
subject to the World Humanitarian Summit, calling for 
a  special  representative  in  the  United  Nations  system 
to  be  dedicated  to  the  issue  of  climate  and  security. 
Momentum appears to be on our side, and we hope that 
the  Secretary-General,  while  he  is  still  with  us,  will 
appoint  such  a  special  representative,  adding  to  his 
legacy as a champion of climate change. 
The  selection  of  a  new  Secretary-General  should 
involve  the  whole  membership.  That  would  help  to 
ensure  that  the  new  head  of  the  Organization  has  the 
political  support  of  all  Members  and  is  responsive, 
responsible  and  effective  on  behalf  of  all,  not  just 
select, elite, nations.
On sustainable development, the work of the United 
Nations  rests  on  three  pillars:  peace  and  security, 
development  and  human  rights.  This  is  the  first  year 
of  implementation  after  the  international  community 
adopted a number of milestone agreements in 2015 — on 
disaster-risk reduction, financing for development, the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
From the High-level Political Forum exercise held 
in  July,  we  learned  that  integrating  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  into  our  national  plans 
will be daunting, and that a one-size-fits-all approach 
will not work. Presenting a true picture of our national 
10/25 
16-29453
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.12
circumstances should not be a burden on small island 
developing  States.  In  addition,  the  United  Nations 
should consider the statistics for countries with fewer 
than 100,000 people, so as to ensure an inclusive process 
and  so  that  truly  no  one  is  left  behind.  Many  of  the 
challenges before the United Nations can be addressed 
only  through  the  collective  work  of  its  membership. 
Support  and  partnerships  are  recognized  as  essential 
to  making  the  SDGs  universal  and  transformative  for 
lives on the ground, and national ownership is critical.
On the issue of fisheries and oceans, while we may 
be known as Pacific small island developing States here 
at  the  United  Nations,  there  is  another  term  that  we 
often use, which is “big ocean States”. The Federated 
States  of  Micronesia  alone  has  607  islands,  spread 
across  3  million  square  kilometres  of  the  Pacific. 
We  are  custodians  of  some  of  the  world’s  richest 
biodiversity  and  marine  resources,  and  have  pledged 
to conserve 30 per cent of our near-shore marine areas 
under  the  Micronesia  Challenge,  a  regional  effort  to 
preserve  the  natural  resources  that  are  crucial  to  the 
survival of Pacific traditions, cultures and livelihoods. 
Our conservation efforts directly benefit my country’s 
sustainable use of its ocean fisheries.
Speaking of cultural preservation, I would like to 
thank UNESCO for its recent designation of our ancient 
ruins  of  Nan  Madol  as  a  UNESCO  World  Heritage 
site,  a  feat  of  construction  that  truly  matches,  if  not 
surpasses, the wonders of the Egyptian Pyramids. As 
for climate change, the United Nations remains the last 
and  best  hope  for  galvanizing  the  necessary  political 
will and commitment for advancing our global agenda 
on  climate  change.  From  this  rostrum  and  elsewhere, 
leaders from small island developing States, like many 
others,  have  called  upon  the  States  Members  of  our 
Organization, especially world leaders, to step up and 
take charge by calling for the urgently needed mitigation 
and financing initiatives to implement climate-change 
agreements.
Current Government commitments fall considerably 
short of even reaching the 2°C goal that we agreed to in 
Paris. The recent ratification of the Paris Agreement by 
more than 30 countries, including virtually all Pacific 
island countries, raises our hopes and expectations that 
others will soon follow suit.
On the issue of the Montreal Protocol on Substances 
that Deplete the Ozone Layer, standing here one year 
ago,  I  described  the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia’s 
long-standing  efforts  to  amend  the  Protocol  to  phase 
down hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) use, and I thanked new 
supporters  and  noted  that  the  proposals  were  finally 
bearing  fruit  (see  A/70/PV.22).  HFCs  are  the  fastest-
growing greenhouse gases in the world. They are also 
extremely potent, producing warming effects hundreds 
to  thousands  of  times  greater  than  those  of  carbon 
dioxide per ton. Phasing down HFCs will help prevent 
warming  emissions  equivalent  to  almost  100  billion 
tons  of  carbon  dioxide  by  2050.  Thanks  to  the  many 
countries that have supported the phase-out proposal, 
as set forth in the Montreal Protocol, that crusade has 
gained new momentum.
the  progress 
in 
Like  others,  I  welcome 
the 
diplomatic  relations  between  the  United  States  and 
Cuba.  My  country,  too,  has  established  diplomatic 
relations  with  Cuba,  but  even  if  we  had  not  entered 
into  that  relationship  for  sovereign  recognition  and 
partnership,  we,  the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia, 
a  State  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  would  still 
lend  our  strong  support  to  resolution  70/120.  We  ask 
the  United  States  to  accelerate  its  consideration  of 
and  process  towards  lifting  the  embargo  imposed  on 
Cuba. Along the same lines, I applaud the peace accord 
reached among the people of Colombia. There may be 
sceptics as to the truce’s viability, but let us give peace 
a chance by applauding the great effort and praying for 
its success. ¡Viva Colombia!
Every year, before coming to the General Assembly, 
the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  meets  to  review  and 
recommend our positions on issues worthy of bringing 
before the Assembly. Earlier this month, Heads of State 
and Government convened for the forty-seventh annual 
meeting of the Forum in Micronesia. At that meeting, 
French Polynesia and New Caledonia were seated as full 
members  of  the  Forum,  while  the  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia became a member of the small island States. 
Climate change, oceans, health and human rights and 
partnership  featured  prominently  on  our  agenda.  On 
climate change, the Forum reaffirmed its position that 
achieving  the  Paris  Agreement’s  goal  of  limiting  the 
average  global  temperature  increase  to  1.5°C  degrees 
above pre-industrial levels is an existential matter for 
many  Forum  members,  and  that  it  must  be  addressed 
with paramount urgency. The Forum also observed that 
the Paris Agreement must be brought into force before 
the end of 2016, or as soon as possible, even tomorrow.
On oceans, the Forum reaffirmed that the Pacific 
region’s most important natural resource is our ocean. 
16-29453
11/25
A/71/PV.12 
21/09/2016
To  that  end,  the  Forum  leaders  endorsed  the  Pohnpei 
Oceans  Statement:  A  Course  to  Sustainability.  In  the 
Statement, the Forum reaffirmed that the ocean is the 
basis for the livelihoods of Pacific peoples, and further 
noted the valuable opportunity presented by the United 
Nations  Conference  to  Support  the  Implementation 
of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  14:  Conserve  and 
sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources 
for  sustainable  development.  The  Statement  further 
urges the timely and comprehensive conclusion of the 
Preparatory  Committee  process,  established  to  make 
substantive recommendations to the General Assembly 
on  the  elements  of  a  draft  text  of  an  international, 
legally  binding  instrument  under  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  in 
areas beyond national jurisdiction.
On  fisheries,  the  Forum  called  for  action  to 
end  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  and 
associated  activities,  including  high-seas  bunkering, 
human trafficking, and illicit trade. The Forum further 
urged  flag  States  to  exercise  more  diligent  efforts 
in  carrying  out  their  flag-State  responsibilities  and 
maintaining control of their nationals.
Our faith in the Organization rests not on the hope 
that  its  goals  can  be  reached  within  a  certain  time 
frame,  whether  it  be  25  years  or  71  years.  Rather,  it 
rests  on  our  confidence  that  nothing  is  impossible 
among like-minded nations willing to unite in sustained 
efforts.  In  that  regard,  this  Organization,  the  greatest 
convocation ever devised by man, will continue to light 
our way and that of future generations.
I will end my remarks with a quotation. Right after 
the  First  World  War,  President  Wilson  wanted  to  see 
the creation of an organization that would prevent all 
future wars. In that regard, he said, 
“A general association of nations must be formed 
under specific covenants for the purpose of affording 
mutual  guarantees  of  political  independence  and 
territorial integrity to great and small States alike.” 
An evident principle ran through the whole programme, 
namely,  the  principle  of  justice  for  all  peoples  and 
nationalities  and  their  right  to  live  on  equal  terms  of 
liberty and safety with one another — whether they be 
strong or weak. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Federated 
States of Micronesia for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Peter M. Christian, President of the Federated 
States  of  Micronesia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Raimonds Vējonis, President of the 
Republic of Latvia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia.
Mr.  Raimonds  Vējonis,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Latvia, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Raimonds  Vējonis, 
President of the Republic of Latvia, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Vējonis:  This  year  marks  the  twenty-
fifth  anniversary  of  Latvia’s 
independence  and 
membership  in  the  United  Nations.  My  country  took 
its  rightful  place  at  the  United  Nations  in  1991,  with 
the  clear  objective  of  making  a  contribution  to  the 
collective security, stability and prosperity of the world. 
As a responsible democratic State based on the rule of 
law and respect for human dignity and freedom, Latvia 
remains strongly committed to the essential work of the 
United Nations.
The  United  Nations  has  been,  and  will  be,  our 
platform  for  global  engagement.  The  far-reaching 
agreements  on  sustainable  development  and  climate 
change have restored trust in the multilateral system’s 
ability  to  deliver  solutions  on  pressing  global  issues. 
More than ever, the world has great expectations that 
the  United  Nations  will  meet  the  rising  challenges 
for  peace  and  development  and  deliver  effective  and 
prompt results. 
Last  year,  in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  we  all  pledged  to  leave  no  one  behind. 
This  promise  supports  poverty  eradication  and 
development efforts in the most challenging contexts. 
It  means  addressing  persistent  vulnerabilities  and 
building  resilience  in  complex,  protracted  crises  and 
conflict-affected populations. Therefore, strengthening 
12/25 
16-29453
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.12
the development and security nexus must become our 
mission. 
ever. The international community must find political 
solutions. 
All people have the right to live in peace and security 
in  their  own  countries.  Conflicts,  poverty,  disasters 
and climate change have contributed to the rise of large 
movements of refugees and migrants. Some 125 million 
people  around  the  world  are  in  desperate  need  of 
humanitarian  assistance.  The  current  unprecedented 
migration  crisis  cannot  be  addressed  by  the  most 
affected countries alone; it is a global phenomenon that 
requires  joint  efforts  and  shared  responsibility.  The 
global  commitment  to  shared  responsibility  shown  at 
the United Nations summit held on Monday goes hand 
in  hand  with  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  Sustainable  solutions 
must  be  found  to  ensure  opportunities  for  education, 
employment and business for persons forcibly displaced 
during  protracted  crises  and  conflicts  and  to  provide 
support for host communities and countries. 
The  development  of  peaceful  and 
inclusive 
societies,  good  governance  and  respect  for  human 
rights will also help us to tackle the spread of violent 
extremism,  while  military  and  security  measures  are 
necessary  to  combat  Da’esh  and  similar  groups.  We 
need to address the root causes of people’s willingness 
to choose violent extremism. 
Latvia is part of the global coalition against Da’esh 
that has been instrumental in combating the group in 
Iraq  and  Syria.  We  welcome  the  NATO  decision  to 
step up support for the efforts of the coalition to that 
end. Only unified, coordinated, collective action at the 
global, regional and national levels will help us succeed 
in confronting the new, unconventional threats. 
Terrorist  attacks  continue  almost  daily.  Fighting 
terrorism  must  remain  our  priority.  The  international 
community  needs  a  plan  for  building  resilience  in 
the  communities  that  for  years  have  suffered  under 
the  barbaric  rule  of  Da’esh.  The  willingness  of  local 
populations  will  also  be  required  if  their  future  is 
to  be  shaped  by  the  primacy  of  the  rule  of  law  and 
human rights, thus countering the factors conducive to 
radicalization, extremism and terrorism.
We  will  not  be  able  to  achieve  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  without  sustaining  peace  and 
preventing  conflict.  The  need  for  decisive  political 
action  to  address  and  prevent  the  conflict  that  causes 
massive displacement and suffering is more urgent than 
The  security  challenges  in  the  Middle  East  are 
marked by a high degree of complexity, spillover and 
refugee flows. After five years of civil war, Syria has 
been  destroyed.  Attacks  against  civilians,  medical 
facilities  and  schools  continue.  This  is  unacceptable. 
The  perpetrators  of  international  crimes  must  be 
brought  to  justice.  A  real  nationwide  ceasefire  and 
improved  humanitarian  access  are  the  prerequisite 
for  the  resumption  of  talks.  Latvia  has  provided  its 
contribution  to  mitigating  the  consequences  of  the 
conflict. However, only credible and inclusive political 
solutions will return Syria to stability. All members of 
the  International  Syria  Support  Group  must  put  their 
political weight behind the United Nations-led process.
In  Libya,  the  institutional  vacuum  has  created  a 
breeding  ground  for  terrorist  groups  such  as  Da’esh. 
The unification and cohesion of rival parties in Libya is 
a key element for the country’s long-term stability and 
its success in the fight against terrorists. 
Iran’s  diligent 
implementation  of 
the  Joint 
Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  and  its  cooperation 
with  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  will 
contribute  to  greater  stability  in  the  Middle  East.  In 
contrast, North Korea’s irresponsible actions, including 
its repeated nuclear tests, undermine the security of all 
countries in the region and beyond. 
We support all recent international efforts aimed at 
making progress towards the resumption of the Middle 
East peace process and find common ground that will 
bring  the  two  parties  back  to  meaningful  dialogue. 
There is no alternative to a two-State solution reached 
through peace negotiations. 
in 
Ensuring  long-term  stability  in  Afghanistan  is 
of  vital  importance  for  global  and  regional  security. 
Adverse  developments 
that  country  can  have 
spillover  effects  on  the  neighbouring  countries  of 
Central  Asia,  which  undermines  their  potential  to 
develop  economic  connectivity  at  the  macroregional 
level.  Latvia  provides  Afghanistan  with  political  and 
financial  support  for  reform  in  the  country.  We  call 
on  more  active  regional  cooperation,  together  with 
continued international support, to sustain the growth 
and prosperity of Afghanistan and its people.
In  many  other  countries,  the  political  situation 
is  highly  volatile,  and  some  are  engulfed  in  conflict. 
16-29453
13/25
A/71/PV.12 
21/09/2016
The  United  Nations  and  its  peace  efforts  can  help  to 
stabilize these countries and gradually bring them back 
to normalcy.
We  support  the  United  Nations  in  its  aim  to 
make  peacekeeping  more  effective  through  updating 
available  tools  for  meeting  new  challenges.  Better 
planning,  equipment  and  training  will  improve  the 
effectiveness  of  peacekeeping  and  the  protection  of 
civilians. There should be greater focus on strengthened 
collaboration  with  regional  organizations.  Building 
upon  experience  from  other  international  operations, 
Latvia  is  now  involved  for  the  first  time  in  a  United 
Nations peacekeeping operation, in Mali.
This  is  still  a  very  turbulent  time  for  European 
security.  For  Latvia,  the  stability  and  security  of 
Europe’s neighbours in the East is a strategic priority 
and remains high on our political agenda. The resolution 
of protracted conflicts in Transnistria, Abkhazia, South 
Ossetia  and  Nagorno  Karabakh  should  have  priority 
on  the  international  agenda.  We  must  remain  vigilant 
and  insist  that  all  States,  including  Russia,  abide  by 
their obligations under international law with regard to 
respecting the borders of sovereign States.
Together with the international community, Latvia 
will continue to stand for the sovereignty and territorial 
integrity of Ukraine. We refuse to recognize the illegal 
annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation; it must 
end. Any discrimination against the Crimean Tatars and 
ethnic  Ukrainians  in  Crimea  requires  a  firm  reaction 
from the United Nations. The international community 
must  work  to  facilitate  the  peaceful  resolution  of  the 
conflict in eastern Ukraine. All parties must fulfil their 
commitments  under  the  Minsk  agreements  and  make 
the  Minsk  process  work.  Latvia  continues  to  support 
Ukraine in its reforms and with its humanitarian needs. 
The  United  Nations  capacity  to  address  current 
challenges  also  depends  on  the  political  will  to  make 
progress  on  the  necessary  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  which  is  long  overdue.  We  should  all  be 
aiming  to  strengthen  the  legitimacy  of  this  important 
body.  Accordingly,  the  permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council should refrain from using their veto 
power  in  situations  involving  atrocity  crimes.  Latvia 
supports not only this important initiative, but also the 
Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency  group’s 
code  of  conduct  on  Security  Council  action  against 
genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.
We  are  determined  to  maintain  the  political 
momentum  for  climate  action.  In  April  of  this  year, 
Latvia  signed  the  historic  Paris  Agreement.  We  will 
strive to ratify the Agreement as soon as possible and 
encourage  others  to  do  the  same.  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon has been driving the push for worldwide 
action on climate change and gender equality. Latvia is 
grateful to him for his leadership and dedication over 
the past decade.
The  scope  of  challenges  that  the  world  faces  is 
daunting. The bold global agenda requires leadership. 
The expectations placed on the next Secretary-General 
of  the  United  Nations  are  therefore  as  high  as  ever. 
This  important  job  requires  courage  and  readiness  to 
effectively  tackle  the  issues  that  we  face.  While  we 
are  looking  for  the  best-qualified  candidate,  we  also 
recall  that  Eastern  Europe  is  the  only  region  that  has 
never held the post of Secretary-General. I am equally 
convinced  that  after  70  years,  it  is  time  to  choose  a 
woman for the Organization’s top job.
Ms. Young (Belize), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
There are many challenges that shape the evolving 
global landscape, but we now see the clear outlines of 
the new and better world that can be reached through 
diligent  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  Implementation  of  the  new 
Agenda will not be easy. Only through an informed and 
active society, in true partnership with all stakeholders, 
and  through  review  of  the  progress  made,  will  we  be 
able to achieve the necessary transformative change by 
2030. This is the time for us to act together responsibly. 
Latvia will continue to play its part in shaping a better 
future for us all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Latvia for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Raimonds  Vējonis,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Latvia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 
Adress by Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, Chairman of the 
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Chairman of the Presidency of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
14/25 
16-29453
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.12
Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, Chairman of the Presidency 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the 
United Nations His Excellency Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, 
Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Izetbegović: Peace and security, human 
rights  and  development  are  the  pillars  of  the  United 
Nations  —  a  founding  promise  to  the  world  that  this 
Organization was created to safeguard. Yet our world 
today is anything but peaceful and secure; it is marred 
by injustice, inequality and intolerance, each of which 
erodes  the  foundations  of  human  society.  We  are 
witnessing human suffering on an unprecedented scale, 
suffering  that  reaches  far  beyond  national  boundaries 
and capacities to deal with it. Poverty, hunger, disease, 
natural disasters and climate change afflict millions of 
our fellow human beings. Many States and societies are 
trapped in protracted conflicts, with cycles of violence 
claiming countless victims.
We are facing the worst forced displacement crisis 
since the Second World War. Some 60 million people 
have been forced to flee their homes because of wars, 
persecution  and  human-rights  violations.  They  are 
scattered  around  the  world  with  their  livelihoods  and 
communities shattered to pieces and their nations and 
cultures torn apart. Robbed of their dignity and living 
in despair in refugee camps, they are compelled to seek 
a better future on the borders of other countries. They 
are not faceless statistics, but human beings with every 
right  to  a  future  free  of  violence  and  a  future  full  of 
hope  and  opportunity.  Their  tragedy  is  our  tragedy; 
their future is our future.
This  crisis  requires  not  only  a  humanitarian 
response but a sustainable political solution. It requires 
stronger  political  leadership  and  resolve,  as  well  as 
a  rethinking  of  policy,  operational  and  financing 
strategies at national, regional and international levels. 
However, all too often, narrow national interests impede 
the  formulation  of  such  joint  responses.  When  crises, 
such  as  the  current  refugee  and  migrant  crisis  in  the 
Middle East and in Europe, transcend borders we must 
look at the big picture — not merely from the standpoint 
of  national  interests  —  because  the  consequences  of 
our actions and omissions resonate beyond our borders.
As  a  country  that  had  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
its  citizens  suffer  the  plight  of  being  forced  out  of 
their  homes,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  attaches  great 
significance to addressing this challenge. We recognize 
the importance and timely organization of the summit 
for  refugees  and  migrants,  and  we  welcome  the 
adoption of the outcome document (resolution 71/1) that 
is clearly linked to the 2030 Agenda. We hope that the 
commitments made by Member States at that meeting 
will have meaningful impact on the ground. In the 2030 
Agenda, we pledged to ensure that no one is left behind 
and committed to empowering the most vulnerable. 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  fully  supports  the  2030 
Agenda. As a newly elected member of the Economic 
and  Social  Council,  we  will  play  an  active  role  in 
the  implementation  of  this  transformative  blueprint 
for  change.  Our  ability  to  achieve  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) will depend on the availability 
of  support  for  national  implementation  —  primarily 
from  the  revised  and  improved  Global  Partnership 
for  Sustainable  Development,  which  must  be  a  true 
global  platform  for  the  exchange  of  best  practices  in 
the  fields  of  finance,  trade,  technology  and  capacity-
building among Member States. We support the Global 
Mechanism and the monitoring of the implementation of 
the Sustainable Development Goals, which will outline 
critical  milestones  towards  a  coherent  and  inclusive 
follow-up and review of the Agenda at the global level.
to  achieve 
transformation  not  only  for  the  sake  of  the  people 
but  also  for  the  sake  of  the  planet.  Our  development 
must  not  come  at  the  expense  of  our  habitat.  Unless 
we  urgently  take  coordinated  global  action  to  reverse 
existing  patterns  of  environmental  degradation  and 
climate  change,  we  risk  endangering  a  desired  future 
for  generations  to  come.  Fulfilling  the  commitments 
of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 
2015-2030 and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change 
is  critical  to  protecting  development  outcomes  and 
adapting to the consequences of natural disasters and 
climate  change  through  risk-informed  development. 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  already  implementing 
its  Climate  Change  Adaptation  and  Low-Emission 
Development  Strategy,  with  the  aim  of  becoming  a 
viable and advanced green economy by 2025.
The  2030  Agenda 
requires  us 
But we need to stay alert. The 2030 Agenda is not 
the answer to all our problems. There is always room 
for  inequality  and  injustice  to  thrive  if  our  approach, 
acceptance  and  implementation  are  not  cohesive  and 
16-29453
15/25
A/71/PV.12 
21/09/2016
unified.  What  we  make  of  the  2030  Agenda  and  how 
we build upon it will determine its results in improving 
equal opportunity for all people.
Human rights are at the heart of the 17 Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  from  eradicating  poverty 
to 
reducing inequality and promoting inclusive societies. 
As  we  start  to  bring  people  in  from  the  margins,  we 
must  strive  to  put  human  rights  at  the  centre  of  our 
actions, as they are the most powerful driving forces of 
peace and development. The SDGs are the gold standard 
we are committed to upholding so that our people can 
enjoy dignity, freedom and equality. They are a moral 
and legal framework that empowers people everywhere 
to fight injustice anywhere.
We  are  deeply  concerned  about  the  erosion  of 
world peace and security caused by new and protracted 
conflicts,  especially  in  the  Middle  East.  The  Israeli-
Palestinian conflict, which has lasted for over 60 years, 
has been the primary and constant source of instability 
in the Middle East. A new impetus for negotiations is 
urgently  needed.  We  strongly  support  efforts  to  hold 
a peace conference that would bring a lasting and just 
resolution  to  this  conflict,  based  on  the  principles  of 
international  law  and  reaching  a  consensus  on  the 
peaceful coexistence of two independent States.
International  peace  and  stability  are  being 
dramatically  undermined  by  the  violence  and  crimes 
against  the  Syrian  people.  It  is  deeply  troubling  that 
the  most  influential  global  and  regional  actors  have 
so  far  failed  to  find  a  peaceful  solution  to  the  crisis 
in  Syria.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  fully  supports  the 
Geneva peace talks and the efforts of the International 
Syria  Support  Group  to  find  a  political  solution  to 
this  conflict.  The  peaceful  future  of  Syria  rests  upon 
respecting the will of the Syrian people and allowing 
them to express that will in democratic elections.
The  so-called  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the 
Levant  (ISIL)  has  severely  destabilized  Syria,  Iraq 
and  the  broader  Middle  East,  posing  a  grave  threat 
to  international  security.  Its  ideology,  objectives  and 
actions  are  contrary  to  all  values  and  norms  of  our 
civilization.  We  condemn  in  the  strongest  possible 
terms the atrocities, systematic abuses of human rights 
and violations of international law committed by ISIL. 
As a member of the Global Coalition to Counter ISIL, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  will  continue  to  contribute 
within our means to international efforts to defeat this 
terrorist organization.
involving 
Terrorism is a global threat that affects us all. No 
State  or  society  is  immune  to  it,  and  no  State  alone 
can  counter  it.  With  violent  extremism  on  the  rise 
and  a  growing  number  of  foreign  fighters,  terrorism 
is  becoming  an  increasingly  difficult  challenge  that 
requires  a  comprehensive  response 
the 
collaboration of all States, employing both preventative 
and security measures. We face a problem that has deep 
and complex roots, that transcends national boundaries, 
and  that  cannot,  and  should  not,  be  associated  with 
any  one  religion,  nationality  or  ethnic  group.  Those 
who perpetrate, organize and inspire terrorist attacks, 
claiming  to  do  so  in  the  name  of  Islam,  want  to  turn 
Islam into an ideology of global fear. Violent extremism 
and terrorism are unacceptable from the viewpoint of 
any religion, including Islam. They undermine Islam’s 
system of values and its universal teachings of tolerance 
and coexistence.
Bosnia and Herzegovina is strongly committed to 
combating  terrorism  in  all  its  forms.  We  are  deeply 
concerned with the rise of violent extremism, and attach 
a  great  importance  to  countering  it.  We  welcome  the 
Secretary-General’s Plan of Action to Prevent Violent 
Extremism  as  another  useful  tool  in  a  comprehensive 
whole-of-United  Nations  approach 
to  preventing 
violent  extremism.  The  prevention  of  extremism  and 
the promotion of human rights are inextricably linked. 
Inclusive  governance  and  respect  for  the  rule  of  law 
are of paramount importance. Political, economic and 
social injustices around the world contribute to the rise 
of despair and hopelessness, creating a fertile ground 
for the emergence of radicalism and violent extremism.
In the imperfect world in which we live, injustice 
is  constantly  growing,  but  actions  that  cause  further 
injustice are not the right response. Our Governments 
must  and  will  respond  to  violence  with  forceful  and 
repressive  measures.  However,  if  that  part  of  our 
response  is  not  carried  out  precisely  and  selectively, 
with respect for human rights and the rule of law, it will 
only cause a new wave of radicalization. The real fight 
and ultimate victory must and can be reached solely on 
the ideological level.
Our  approach  and  strategy  must  be  holistic.  We 
must  apply  a  wide  range  of  policies  and  measures 
that  address  the  economic  and  social  conditions 
conducive  to  the  spread  of  violent  extremism  that 
terrorist organizations exploit to drive recruitment and 
radicalization.  In  particular,  we  must  work  harder  to 
eliminate discrimination, prejudice and xenophobia in 
16/25 
16-29453
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.12
our  societies,  reduce  poverty  and  inequality,  improve 
education and expand opportunities, especially for our 
younger generations.
The  engagement  of  the  United  Nations  has  never 
been more critical, as we face unprecedented challenges 
in  confronting  the  surge  in  violence  in  various  forms 
around  the  world.  Global  action,  guided  by  the 
principles of international law, is required to put an end 
to the violence and instability in Ukraine, Syria, Iraq, 
Libya  and  other  crisis  areas.  Ensuring  the  protection 
of  civilians  and  compliance  with 
international 
humanitarian  and  human  rights  law  is  imperative. 
Neutrality  and  indifference  lead  to  resentment  and 
frustration,  further  emboldening  those  who  leave 
devastation and sorrow in their wake.
Humanitarian  aid  can  never  serve  as  a  substitute 
for  solutions  that  address  the  root  causes  of  conflict, 
nor  can  it  create  the  necessary  conditions  for  lasting 
peace  and  stability.  The  main  causes  of  modern 
conflicts are discrimination and exclusion, failures of 
governance,  impunity,  deep-rooted  poverty  and  the 
lack of opportunity, aggravated by the growing effects 
of  climate  change.  In  our  increasingly  interconnected 
world,  we  can  no  longer  keep  the  impact  of  faraway 
conflicts outside our borders, nor can we ignore their 
global consequences. Our past failures, which came at 
a very high human cost, should have taught us how to 
better prevent and end conflicts. The scenes from Syria 
or the Mediterranean shores are a painful reminder that 
we have not learned those lessons and are still failing to 
turn our promises into actions.
shared 
frameworks 
We must act upon early-warning signs of potential 
conflict.  It  is  critically  important  to  develop  and 
strengthen 
for  conflict-risk 
analysis,  including  early-warning  mechanisms  at  the 
local, national, regional and international levels. Bosnia 
and Herzegovina encourages the better use of Articles 
34 and 99 of the Charter of the United Nations by the 
Security  Council  in  order  to  place  greater  emphasis 
on  preventive  diplomacy  in  situations  that  could  give 
rise  to  conflict  or  threaten  international  peace  and 
security. Early United Nations engagement and use of 
the  Secretary-General’s  good  offices,  combined  with 
regional mediation efforts, can also substantially reduce 
the risk of conflict. We support the United Nations in 
convening  an  international  conflict-prevention  forum 
by 2020, and we urge the Secretary-General to develop 
a  comprehensive  United  Nations  plan  to  strengthen 
conflict prevention.
We  recognize  the  value  of  introducing  United 
Nations  peacebuilding  efforts  at  an  early  stage, 
alongside  peacekeeping  activities.  The  contemporary 
peace and security environment demands increasingly 
complex peacekeeping missions with coherent mandates 
that effectively correspond to situations on the ground. 
We are proud to have contributed to the United Nations 
peacekeeping operations in the Congo and in Mali with 
our  military  peacekeepers  and  with  police  officers  in 
South Sudan, Liberia, Cyprus and Afghanistan, nearly 
a quarter of whom were women.
the  settling  of 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  deeply  committed  to 
the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
multilateralism  and 
international 
disputes and conflicts through peaceful means. Using 
the advantages of our geopolitical position as a bridge 
between  the  East  and  the  West  and  a  meeting  point 
of  civilizations,  we  want  to  advance  dialogue  and 
understanding  and  forge  partnerships  with  friendly 
countries around the world. We strongly value and are 
committed  to  regional  and  subregional  cooperation 
and  remain  active  in  a  number  of  regional  initiatives 
focusing  on  peacebuilding,  migration,  cross-border 
security and development issues.
At  home  and  abroad,  we  will  continue  to  uphold 
and  promote  good  governance,  democracy,  human 
rights and the rule of law. We will continue advocating 
the  use  of  all  available  legal  mechanisms  to  seek 
and  achieve  justice  for  all  victims  of  crimes  against 
humanity, because we believe that truth and justice are 
prerequisites for achieving lasting reconciliation, peace 
and security.
In the past year we have seen a renewed sense of 
unity  and  unprecedented  levels  of  commitment.  We 
acceded  to  the  Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster  Risk 
Reduction  2015-2030,  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Plan 
on  Transformative  Financing  for  Gender  Equality 
and  Women’s  Empowerment,  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  the  Agenda  for  Humanity 
and the historic Paris Agreement on Climate Change. 
We  have  collectively  committed  ourselves  to  the 
betterment  of  humankind  with  our  renewed  focus  on 
conflict prevention and resolution and our strengthened 
efforts 
sustainable  development,  equal 
opportunity  for  all,  the  promotion  of  gender  equality 
and the empowerment of women and girls.
towards 
Peace and security cannot be detached from either 
development  or  environmental  agendas.  Peace  is  not 
16-29453
17/25
A/71/PV.12 
21/09/2016
merely  the  absence  of  violence.  It  is  freedom  from 
fear and insecurity. There can be no lasting peace and 
security when injustice and inequality are an everyday 
experience for millions of people or when basic rights 
and  freedoms  are  denied  to  so  many  human  beings. 
The resulting grievances make our States unstable and 
our  societies  vulnerable  and  readily  fuel  extremism, 
radicalization  and  violence.  Injustice  and  inequality 
diminish  the  human  potential  of  our  communities, 
leaving development and prosperity beyond their reach.
The  road  towards  progress  goes  from  ending 
poverty  to  reducing  inequality  and  building  just, 
equitable,  tolerant,  open  and  inclusive  societies,  with 
respect for human rights and the promotion of the rule 
of law at the core of our every action. History will judge 
us  by  the  difference  we  make  in  the  lives  of  millions 
of  people  who  are  suffering  from  marginalization, 
discrimination, poverty, malnutrition, disease, natural 
disasters  and  climate  change.  We  must  listen  to  their 
voices and respond to their needs, hopes and aspirations. 
We must find the will and courage to take urgent actions 
to turn the agendas we agreed upon into instruments of 
true global change, honouring our pledge to humankind 
and leaving a legacy true to our values.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Chairman  of  the 
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, Chairman of the Presidency 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. José Mário Vaz, President of the 
Republic of Guinea-Bissau
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guinea-Bissau.
Mr.  José  Mário  Vaz,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guinea-Bissau,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. José Mário Vaz, President 
of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President Vaz (spoke in Portuguese; English text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  a  great  honour  and 
privilege for me to be addressing the Assembly for the 
first time since I took office as President of the Republic 
of Guinea-Bissau.
First allow me to congratulate Mr. Peter Thomson, 
President of the General Assembly at this session, and to 
wish him the greatest success in his work. I also thank 
his  predecessor,  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  of  Denmark, 
for  his  excellent  work  during  the  previous  session.  I 
would also like express our appreciation for the theme 
chosen  for  this  session,  under  President  Thomson’s 
important  sponsorship,  which  focuses  on  the  issue  of 
sustainable development.
Guinea-Bissau  believes  that  this  session  is  an 
opportunity  to  strengthen  the  commitments  made 
as  well  as  the  division  of  responsibilities  among  all 
international actors in pursuit of the Goals of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1).
The  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  (resolution 
69/313)  for  development  financing,  approved  by  the 
General  Assembly  in  July  2015,  gave  rise  to  fresh 
hope  with  regard  to  financing  for  the  achievement  of 
the Sustainable Development Goals. The commitments 
made by the parties must be respected. The goals of the 
2030 Agenda and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda are 
complementary and must be harmonized and aligned.
My country is strongly committed to doing our part 
in implementing the commitments made in the context 
of global and regional strategies. Thus we are proud of 
the  fact  that  our  national  development  plan  is  in  line 
with many of the Goals of the Agenda and also of the 
political will demonstrated by the national authorities 
to gradually adjust this strategic plan in order to fully 
accommodate the 17 Sustainable Development Goals.
Guinea-Bissau has very important natural capital to 
leverage for our development and for the preservation 
of the environment in the West Africa ecoregion. Thus 
biodiversity  has  become  an  axis  that  cuts  across  all 
other aspects of my country’s development.
Allow me to take this opportunity to briefly share 
with  the  Assembly  the  current  political  situation 
and  the  efforts  that  have  been  made  to  overcome 
the  institutional  challenges  that  our  country  faces, 
particularly our political authorities.
Just  before  I  left  to  attend  this  session,  thanks  to 
the mediation of the Heads of State of Guinea Conakry 
and Sierra Leone, who were in my country recently, in 
accordance with a decision reached at the Conference 
18/25 
16-29453
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.12
of  Heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the  Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS),  held 
in  Dakar,  an  agreement  was  signed  with  a  view  to 
overcoming the current roadblocks in our Parliament. 
The  agreement  was  signed  by  the  President  of  the 
National Popular Assembly, the Prime Minister and the 
two main political parties.
The  understanding  reached  deserves 
the  full 
support of the President of the Republic, ECOWAS and 
other  partners  of  Guinea-Bissau  as  an  important  step 
toward the easing of political tensions and a consensus 
platform  that  will  allow  us  to  ensure  Government 
stability until the end of the legislative term.
The  endorsement  of  this  understanding  by  the 
Heads  of  State  of  ECOWAS  and  the  international 
community,  which  met  yesterday  to  discuss  the  way 
forward to implementing the agreement, rauses the hope 
that all parties are strongly committed to establishing 
peace  and  stability  so  as  to  allow  the  agreement  to 
be implemented.
Therefore,  allow  me  to  reiterate  my  commitment 
to  do  all  that  is  required,  through  a  frank  and  open 
dialogue with all active forces in our country, in order 
to  consolidate  an  environment  of  peace  and  social 
stability, which are indispensable to a process of stable 
governance in our country.
I  should  note,  however,  that  today  the  Bissau-
Guinean crisis is no longer a political and military crisis, 
but merely, and eminently, a political and institutional 
crisis.  I  should  also  note  that,  from  the  outset  of  my 
term,  not  a  single  shot  has  been  fired  by  military  or 
paramilitary personnel; no one has been killed or beaten 
for political reasons; there have been no reported cases 
of arbitrary arrest; there is freedom of expression, the 
press and demonstration; and no issues of human rights 
violations have been raised.
As  Supreme  Commander  of  the  armed  forces,  I 
would also like to reiterate to the Assembly our request 
for United Nations support for the process of national 
reconciliation  that  is  under  way  in  our  country;  for 
the  participation  of  our  armed  forces  in  international 
peacekeeping missions; for the implementation of safety 
and security-sector reform, which is of great importance, 
namely with respect to the control of weapons and the 
management of materiel; the construction of armories 
and  the  renovation  of  barracks;  and  the  securing  of 
funds for the reintegration of demobilized troops.
The  world  today  faces  a  tremendous  challenge: 
combating and overcoming the scourges of terrorism, 
drug  trafficking,  climate  change  and  other  evils  that 
are  ravaging  our  countries.  These  threats  are  clear 
evidence of the security challenges that we face on our 
shared planet.
Our  subregion,  West  Africa,  is  also  affected 
by  acts  of  terrorism,  which  represent  an  intolerable 
manifestation  of  barbarism  and  of  disdain  for  the 
most  sacred  values  of  humanity.  I  wish  to  take  this 
unique opportunity to once again express my country’s 
solidarity with the countries and peoples that are victims 
of terrorism and reiterate our commitment to them.
the  signing  of 
the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  and  calls  for  its 
implementation as a key tool for regulating international 
dialogue and cooperation among States, which hold in 
their hands the fate of the planet.
Guinea-Bissau  welcomes 
Climate change poses an emerging risk for Guinea-
Bissau.  We  are  a  coastal  country,  with  an  island 
portion  and  a  high  risk  of  sea-level  rise,  which  poses 
a great threat to a significant portion of our territory. 
Therefore, climate change matters are some of the main 
priorities of our political action. Accordingly, we have 
great interest in participating in and closely monitoring 
the  High-level  United  Nations  Conference  to  Support 
the 
Implementation  of  Sustainable  Development 
Goal  14  —  on  conserving  and  sustainably  using  the 
oceans,  seas  and  marine  resources  for  sustainable 
development — which will take place in New York in 
2017. The President of the General Assembly is therefore 
in the right place to fulfil the mission the Assembly has 
assigned to him in this regard. 
In  the  past  year,  we  have  observed  an  important 
development  in  the  international  context,  namely, 
the  rapprochement  between  the  United  States  and 
Cuba,  which  we  greatly  welcomed.  We  hope  that  the 
normalization of bilateral relations may bring these two 
friends  of  Guinea-Bissau  closer  together.  In  addition, 
we call for the implementation of the resolutions calling 
for a two-State solution, with Israel and Palestine living 
side by side in peace and security.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  publicly 
acknowledge  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  the 
Security  Council  and  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
for  their  continued  focus  on,  solidarity  with,  and 
ongoing  monitoring  of  Guinea-Bissau,  its  people  and 
its authorities, even in an environment of multiple and 
16-29453
19/25
A/71/PV.12 
21/09/2016
complex challenges. In addition, on behalf of the people 
of  Guinea-Bissau,  I  would  also  like  to  recognize  and 
thank the Economic Community of West African States 
(ECOWAS),  its  Commission  and  its  member  States 
for  their  political,  financial  and  military  support  in 
the process of stabilizing, securing and reforming the 
safety and security sectors.
I  would  like  to  offer  a  word  of  appreciation  to 
Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  Chair  of  the  ECOWAS 
Authority of Heads of State and Government, and special 
thanks to President Alpha Condé of Guinea for his role 
in  facilitating  the  dialogue  in  the  political  process  in 
Guinea-Bissau.  We  also  offer  our  profound  gratitude 
to  Mr.  Muhammadu  Buhari,  President  of  Nigeria,  for 
his  unwavering  support  as  head  of  the  International 
Contact Group on Guinea-Bissau. I further convey our 
gratitude  to  all  heads  of  State  in  the  subregion,  who 
have  given  a  high  level  of  attention  to  Guinea-Bissau 
during the years our political crisis persisted.
the  African  Union, 
Our  recognition  of  and  gratitude  to  all  other 
international  partners,  countries  and  organizations, 
namely, 
the  West  African 
Economic  and  Monetary  Union,  the  European  Union, 
the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries, 
the  World  Bank,  the  International  Monetary  Fund, 
the  African  Development  Bank,  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme,  UNICEF, 
the  World 
Health  Organization,  the  World  Food  Programme, 
the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund  and  the 
International  Organization  of  la  Francophonie,  which 
have  always  stood  with  Guinea-Bissau  and  supported 
our country in its pursuit of paths leading to stability 
and  development.  The  support  of  our  international 
partners,  as  seen  in  the  results  of  the  Brussels  round 
table  in  2015,  unequivocally  translates  into  attention 
to the situation of the State and the people of Guinea-
Bissau. As promised, we count on our partners’ help to 
leverage economic development as the engine for peace 
and stability in our country.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
appreciation  for  the  United  Nations  and  the  United 
Nations  Integrated  Peacebuilding  Office  in  Guinea-
Bissau, which kept their attention on and unflaggingly 
monitored  Guinea-Bissau,  our  people  and  our 
institutions despite the multiple and complex problems 
that the world is facing. It is with great satisfaction that 
I highlight the indispensable role of the United Nations, 
through its representative in Guinea-Bissau, Mr. Modibo 
Touré,  whom  I  thank  for  his  personal  dedication  to 
facilitating dialogue and seeking solutions, as well as 
the  strengthened  consolidation  of  the  democratic  rule 
of law in Guinea-Bissau.
Finally,  I  wish  the  President  of  the  Assembly 
continued  success  as  he  conducts  the  work  of  this 
seventy-first session of the General Assembly on behalf 
of the States and peoples of the world. May God bless 
us all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Guinea-Bissau for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  José  Mário  Vaz,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guinea-Bissau,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
Address by Mr. Miloš Zeman, President of the 
Czech Republic 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Czech Republic.
Mr. Miloš Zeman, President of the Czech Republic, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Miloš Zeman, President of 
the  Czech  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 
President Zeman: One year ago, here in this Hall, 
I  warned  the  international  community  of  the  threat 
posed  by  the  spread  of  international  terrorism  (see 
A/70/PV.17). What has happened in the year since then? 
Paris,  Brussels,  Dhaka,  Istanbul,  Orlando,  Munich, 
Nice and New York, again, is what happened. 
A few years ago, the number of countries that were 
influenced by Islamic terrorism was only six. Now, it 
is 35. The Islamic State is something like a cancer. But 
it is not only a tumor. Many cancers have metastases, 
which  are  more  dangerous  than  the  original  tumor 
itself, and this is what we are observing in the spread of 
radicalism, terrorism and fanaticism. We must now ask, 
how long are we to wait before we act? How long are we 
going to be limited to conveying only condolences? How 
long will we be constrained to make only declarations 
of solidarity? 
I  admit  that  there  are  some  limited  actions  can 
be  taken  against  terrorism,  but  they  are,  in  fact,  very 
20/25 
16-29453
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.12
limited, while terrorism is spreading all the time. There 
are  three  main  risks  in  this  area.  The  first  is  that,  in 
the  near  future,  there  will  be  a  new  Islamic  State  in 
Afghanistan.  If  there  is  a  reduction  of  NATO  forces 
in  Afghanistan,  a  victory  by  the  Taliban  is  highly 
probable. If that were to happen, we can expect to see 
the same level of cruelty from the Taliban as that which 
we have seen from Al-Qaida, the Islamic State in Iraq 
and  the  Levant,  Boko  Haram  and  the  Al-Nusra  Front 
and others.
The second risk is the extremization or radicalization 
of the population, which is still quite unstable. Let me 
cite one unpleasant example. In the 1930s, in Germany, 
the population was also quite unstable despite the fact 
that  it  was  a  very  cultivated  population.  After  all, 
Germany is the nation of Goethe and Schiller. Over the 
course of a few years, this very decent nation became 
one  of  fanatical  Nazis.  It  only  took  a  few  years.  We 
must admit that such radicalization or extremization is 
also possible today.
The  third  risk  stems  from  our  hesitation  and  our 
lack  of  courage  in  carrying  out  decisive  actions.  My 
country,  though  small,  has  troops  in  Afghanistan, 
Mali  and  other  parts  of  the  world.  That,  however,  is 
not enough. What we need is the coordinated action of 
most if not all States Members of the United Nations. 
But what can be done until that happens? Let me cite 
another example. 
What  we  need  is  a  solid,  firm,  comprehensive 
United Nations platform on international terrorism. A 
proposal for such a platform was put forward by India 
in the year 2000 — 16 years ago. Sixteen years later, we 
are still discussing how international terrorism should 
be  defined.  International  lawyers  have  literally  been 
discussing this issue for 16 years. 
Thank  God  I  am  not  an  international  lawyer.  I 
say  that  because,  for  me,  a  terrorist  is  anybody  who 
intentionally  kills  innocent  civilian  people.  It  is  that 
simple:  “Elementary,  my  dear  Watson”,  as  they  say. 
Unfortunately, the United Nations has been discussing 
a  programme  —  and  the  definition  of  international 
terrorism — for 16 years. As a result, I have some doubts 
about the efficiency of this international Organization. 
I hope the Acting President will excuse me for being so 
blunt. Obviously, this state of affairs is not satisfactory; 
we do not have the platform we need. 
and  using  improved  communication  among  national 
secret  services.  I  was  very  happy  to  learn  that  the 
Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations, 
our French colleague, proposed the same thing: using 
the  experience  with  drones  and  helicopters  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  to  wage  the  fight 
against jihadists. What we need is not massive territorial 
operations — those have led to bad experiences in Iraq, 
Syria  and  Libya,  where  we  were  able  to  destroy,  but 
we  were  not  able  to  build;  rather,  we  must  attack  the 
most sensitive points, the nerve centres of international 
terrorism, without occupying territory. We must attack 
the brain, not the body.
I had hoped that there would be a Security Council 
resolution  on  combating  terrorism,  but  again  that  did 
not  happen.  I  read  the  first  draft  of  such  a  resolution 
proposed by the Russian Federation, but that proposed 
draft resolution has not yet been adopted. Unfortunately, 
many of the Articles of the Charter of the United Nations, 
beginning with Article 39 and ending with Article 51, 
go  unused.  For  example,  Article  47,  on  the  Military 
Staff  Committee,  is,  in  United  Nations  terminology, 
a  “sleeping  Article”  or  a  “sleeping  structure”.  Let 
us  therefore  awaken  it.  Since  we  have  those  Articles 
and  we  have  this  Charter,  we  need  to  use  them  when 
the  appropriate  opportunity  arises.  For  without  those 
measures,  without  coordinated  military  action  based 
on the common will of the permanent members of the 
Security Council, the spread of terrorism will continue, 
and  we  shall  be  faced  with  new  assassinations,  new 
failed  countries  and  new  terrorist  actions  throughout 
the world.
Let me conclude with the old Roman oratorical phrase 
uttered frequently by Cato the Elder: “Ceterum autem 
censeo  Carthaginem  esse  delendam”  —  “Moreover,  I 
believe that Carthage must be destroyed”. Deep in my 
heart I believe that someday we will overcome — not 
Carthage, but international terrorism.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Czech 
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Last year, I proposed the creation of an international 
force, equipped with drones, helicopters and air rangers 
Mr. Miloš Zeman, President of the Czech Republic, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
16-29453
21/25
A/71/PV.12 
21/09/2016
Address by Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, Constitutional 
President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Constitutional President of the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia.
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional  President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma, 
Constitutional  President  of  the  Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Morales Ayma (spoke in Spanish): I am 
once  again  participating  in  the  regular  session  of  the 
General Assembly to reaffirm our respect, admiration 
and congratulations to our brother, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, 
for  his  contribution  to  the  life  of  the  peoples  of  the 
world and of Mother Earth. We appreciate and express 
our deep respect for his work as Secretary-General of 
the United Nations. I am also here to reiterate that we 
are  living  in  a  time  of  renewed  global  obscurantism, 
spurred by the capitalist and imperialist barbarism that 
is killing human dignity, the integrity of our common 
home,  Mother  Earth,  and  the  sovereignty  of  our 
countries.
Mr.  Sogavare  (Solomon  Islands),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 
Today,  according  to  United  Nations  data,  some 
94  per  cent  of  the  world’s  wealth  is  in  the  hands  of 
a  mere  20  per  cent  of  the  global  population.  More 
than  800  million  people  in  the  world  are  suffering 
from  hunger.  This  grim  social  reality  is  the  true 
face  of  capitalism.  Humankind’s  main  goals  during 
this  century  should  be  to  eradicate  capitalism  and 
imperialism as the prevailing societal model. If we do 
not build another model of society as soon as possible, 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  will  be  replaced 
with the sustainable goals of death for all living things 
and Mother Earth. 
The  capitalist  countries  have  built  borders  and 
walls everywhere — on water, on land and in the air. 
One  out  of  every  100  people  in  the  world  is  either  a 
refugee  or  someone  displaced  by  global  warming, 
wars  or  imperialist  invasions,  as  occurred  in  Syria, 
Iraq, Libya and other countries. We hope that all of the 
world’s peoples can start building universal citizenship 
and  one  great  country  where  people  live  in  harmony 
and as part of a common family.
The expansionist and warmongering policies of the 
State  of  Israel  and  its  allies  are  major  expressions  of 
barbarism in the modern world. We strongly condemn 
Israel’s attacks on the civilian population of Palestine 
and  demand  that  Israel  cease  hostilities  immediately. 
We urge the United Nations to fully and immediately 
recognize the State of Palestine and take tangible action 
to stop the brutal genocide of the Palestinian people.
We return to the General Assembly to express our 
strong rejection of the coercive and unilateral economic 
measures imposed by the United States against Cuba for 
political reasons. It is not sufficient to restore diplomatic 
relations.  The  United  States  must  compensate  Cuba 
for the economic blockade and restore Guantanamo to 
Cuban territorial sovereignty. 
and 
the  Colombian  Government 
We  commend  the  signing  of  the  peace  agreement 
between 
the 
Revolutionary  Armed  Forces  of  Colombia.  It  shows 
that  we  are  fulfilling  the  promise  of  membership  in 
the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States — to make our region a zone of peace. We must 
never forget that peace can be achieved only with social 
justice. We highlight and admire Cuba’s leadership in 
facilitating the peace agreement. 
We  lament  the  fact  that  other  Governments,  such 
as that of the United States, perpetrate attacks, such as 
the most recent bombing of military positions in Syria, 
which left dozens of soldiers dead or wounded. It shows 
the hypocrisy and the ongoing non-compliance with the 
commitments  they  undertook  in  the  Syrian  ceasefire 
agreement, announced by Russia and the United States 
on 9 September in Geneva. 
This  year  has  been  the  hottest  in  the  history  of 
the  planet,  and  each  year  is  hotter  than  the  previous 
one.  This  year,  Bolivia  is  also  experiencing  one  of 
the worst droughts in history. We have to be alert and 
take  immediate  action  to  prevent  the  barbarism  of 
capitalism from transforming the Paris Agreement into 
an agreement of lies and blackmail. 
We  condemn  terrorism,  violence  and  war,  but  in 
order  to  eliminate  terrorism,  we  must  attack  the  root 
causes of this scourge for humankind. It must be said 
that as long as wealth remains in the hands of a few, as 
long as poverty and exclusion exist, as long as racism 
and discrimination persist, as long as the identity and 
the sovereignty of peoples are not respected and their 
22/25 
16-29453
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.12
natural resources are pillaged for imperialist purposes, 
there  will  be  grounds  for  violence  and  terrorism.  We 
must build a world of peace and equality with dignity 
and brotherhood among peoples. 
Many brother countries have been affected by the 
global  economic  crisis.  In  Bolivia,  however,  we  have 
developed policies and are taking measures to deal with 
the  repercussions  of  the  global  crisis  in  the  capitalist 
system.  Bolivia  is  leading  economic  growth  in  South 
America, as it is one of the countries that has achieved 
complementarity among economic growth, distribution 
of wealth, public investment and a significant reduction 
in poverty while expanding equality. None of this would 
have  been  possible  without  the  sovereign  measures  it 
has  taken,  such  as  the  nationalization  of  our  natural 
resources and strategic companies. 
Imperialist  interests  are  creating  a  process  of 
political  destabilization  in  our  region.  We  condemn 
foreign  political  intervention  in  our  brother  country 
of  Venezuela.  We  salute  the  revolutionary  fight  of 
the  people,  undertaken  with  their  leader,  Commander 
Maduro.  The  new  imperial  conspiracy  in  the  twenty-
first century is no longer through coups d’état but rather 
through parliamentary or judicial takeovers. They may 
be legal and constitutional, but they are not legitimate, 
nor do they respect the decisions of the people. 
We  express  our  deep  concern  about  and  rejection 
of  the  actions  taken  by  the  Secretary  General  of  the 
Organization of American States (OAS), which are in 
breach  of  the  basic  principles  of  the  United  Nations. 
The Organization of American States needs to be a true 
representation of the all the countries of the Americas, 
and not an agent or mouthpiece for the interests of the 
United  States.  We  do  not  need  an  imperial  leader  to 
control  our  people.  If  the  OAS  does  not  represent  or 
respect, the sovereignty of its member States, it would 
be better if it did not exist at all. 
Last  week,  on  18  September,  the  Heads  of  State 
and  Government  of  the  countries  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  met  on  Margarita  Island,  Venezuela, 
and  strongly  condemned  action  taken  by  the  United 
States  of  America  relative  to  its  Transnational  Drug 
Trafficking Act of 2015, which involves implementing 
extraterritorial measures that violate the purposes and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations. I take 
this  opportunity  to  inform  members  of  the  Assembly 
that Bolivia, without military bases or the presence of 
the  United  States  Drug  Enforcement  Administration 
(DEA),  is  now  faring  better  in  the  fight  against  drug 
trafficking,  and  this  fact  has  been  recognized  by  the 
United Nations. 
I also note that thanks to a few police officers of 
our armed forces, we learned the following: when the 
DEA was in Bolivia, when it seized drugs, 50 per cent 
were  burned  and  50  per  cent  went  to  DEA  for  trade. 
A  Bolivian  officer  inquired  about  the  latter  50  per 
cent,  and  the  response  was  that  the  DEA  used  the 
money  to  pay  off  our  police.  Investigations  that  were 
conducted proved that the DEA was training police and 
military personnel to plan the assassination of leaders. 
For these reasons and many more, I would like to tell 
those present in this Hall today that terrorism and drug 
trafficking  are  twins  that  serve  the  imperial  interests 
of the United States, which seeks to invade and control 
other  countries  around  the  world  —  I  am  completely 
convinced of this. 
Furthermore,  I  recall  that  in  1879,  the  Bolivian 
coast was invaded by Chilean and English transnational 
military  forces  with  a  view  to  taking  the  substantial 
natural  resources  there  by  force.  For  more  than  a 
century,  Chile  has  expressly  and  repeatedly  rejected 
the pressing need for Bolivia to once again be a coastal 
country, and it has undertaken to negotiate with Bolivia 
the restitution of maritime access.
Bolivia  has  relied  in  good  faith  on  all  the  legal 
commitments  undertaken,  which  served  as  the  basis 
of  our  claim  brought  before  the  International  Court 
of Justice. The Court declared its jurisdiction over the 
matter on 24 September 2015, after the Government of 
Chile presented an objection regarding said jurisdiction. 
We understand that these are times of dialogue, that we 
must  work  together  on  solutions  that  will  allow  us  to 
resolve  pending  matters  peacefully  and  with  the  full 
involvement  of  the  people.  We  invite  Chile  to  put  an 
end to one of the longest-lasting conflicts in the history 
of  Latin  America,  whose  solution  continues  to  be  an 
outstanding debt between our nations. The solution to 
the conflict will benefit not only Bolivia but Chile and 
the  integration  of  Latin  America  as  a  whole.  We  are 
certain that we will find a solution whereby everyone 
is a winner. 
I  would  like  to  thank  the  organizations  of  the 
international  community  and  the  various  presidents, 
former  presidents  and  peoples  of  the  world  for  their 
ongoing support for Bolivia to regain sovereign access 
to the sea. I would also like to highlight the fact that 
16-29453
23/25
A/71/PV.12 
21/09/2016
the  United  Nations  created  an  institution  of  such 
importance, the International Court of Justice, so that 
international  conflicts  and  controversies  could  be 
resolved peacefully. We trust that the Court will serve 
justice.
Our  greatest  wish  is  to  see  the  message  of  Pope 
Francis  become  reality  —  to  establish  channels  of 
dialogue  and  tear  down  the  walls  that  divide  us.  We 
want  to  launch  a  dialogue  that  satisfies  the  mutual 
interests of our countries. In Bolivia, we are building 
a country that will be an exemplar of equality, liberty 
with dignity, and sovereignty for the world. For these 
reasons,  we  insist  and  will  continue  to  insist  that  all 
basic services must be recognized as human rights, and 
that,  further,  we  recognize  and  respect  the  rights  of 
Mother Earth. The new world order with social justice 
must  be  built  on  the  foundation  of  fraternity  among 
nations and harmony with Mother Earth for the well-
being of all of us. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Constitutional President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional  President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 
Address by Mr. Filipe Jacinto Nyusi, President of 
the Republic of Mozambique
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Mozambique.
Mr. Filipe Jacinto Nyusi, President of the Republic 
of  Mozambique,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Filipe  Jacinto  Nyusi, 
President of the Republic of Mozambique, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
I would first like to congratulate the President on 
his election to lead the Assembly at this session and to 
thank the outgoing President, Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, for 
the dedication with which he has fulfilled his mandate 
in the context of achieving fundamental commitments, 
namely, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on financing 
for  development,  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  the  Sendai  Framework  for  disaster  risk 
reduction and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. 
As  we  celebrate  the  first  anniversary  of  the  adoption 
of these important instruments, we are pleased to see 
that the world and the United Nations system have been 
making  progress  with  their  implementation.  Despite 
those developments, however, we are cognizant of the 
challenges that remain.
The theme for this session of the Assembly — “The 
Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a  universal  push  to 
transform our world” — could not be more appropriate, 
as  the  year  2016  has  ushered  in  a  new  era  for 
implementing  the  global  development  agenda.  The 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development reflects the 
collective  ambition  for  and  global  consensus  on  the 
importance of accelerating the creation of the conditions 
for  ensuring  that  our  efforts  to  eradicate  poverty  and 
build  sustainable  development  are  people-centred. 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) therefore 
represent a tool with enormous potential for triggering 
profound  changes  in  our  vision  for  development  and 
ensuring that no country or individual is left behind.
lies 
to 
their 
The  major 
challenge 
in 
the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals 
implementation, 
particularly with regard to their alignment with global, 
regional and national instruments and resources, their 
financing,  monitoring  and  evaluation  of  progress, 
and  their  inclusiveness.  By  integrating  the  dimension 
of  peace  and  stability,  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  acknowledge  the  inseparability  of  peace  and 
development and the need for each to be strengthened. 
Only  in  this  way  can  we  build  peaceful,  just  and 
inclusive  societies,  for  which  genuine  political  will  is 
required. For this process to succeed, we urgently need 
to reposition the United Nations system so that it can 
respond to current realities.
President  Nyusi  (spoke  in  Portuguese;  English 
text provided by the delegation): It is a great honour for 
me to address, on behalf of the people of Mozambique, 
the  General  Assembly,  the  world’s  highest  forum  for 
political and diplomatic discussion, at its seventy-first 
session.
There can be no doubt that the global transformation 
that  the  SDGs  are  aiming  to  achieve  will  require 
structural changes in the way we design and implement 
our  major  national  development  agendas  in  the  short, 
medium and long term. In that regard, Mozambique’s 
2015-2019  five-year  Government  programme,  our 
24/25 
16-29453
21/09/2016 
A/71/PV.12
blueprint  for  governance,  already  reflects  some  of 
the principles and the three dimensions of sustainable 
development.
In order to mainstream, monitor and report on our 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, 
we  recently  established  a  national  reference  group 
comprising  representatives  from 
the  Government, 
Parliament,  civil  society, 
the  private  sector  and 
cooperating partners. The group’s task is to follow up on 
progress on the indicators selected to assess targets up 
to 2030, as well as to deal with policy measures, funding 
possibilities  and  any  factor  that  may  have  an  effect 
on  the  successful  implementation  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals. Through the group’s broad-based 
intervention,  our  goal  is  to  make  the  implementation 
of the Sustainable Development Goals more inclusive, 
consistent and transparent, and something which all the 
various stakeholders can feel part of.
The  third  International  Conference  on  Financing 
for  Development,  held  in  Addis  Ababa  in  July  2015, 
recommended that countries use their own frameworks 
and means to respond to the new development agenda.  
The  Conference  advised  Member  States  to  develop 
comprehensive  and  integrated  funding  strategies  that 
go beyond traditional procedures for public budgeting. 
In  that  context,  and  as  part  of  our  commitment  to 
continuing  to  mobilize  more  resources,  Mozambique 
has  established  a  national  fund  for  sustainable 
development.  In  addition,  we  have  begun  evaluating 
the  flow  of  development  financing,  with  the  aim,  on 
the one hand, of facilitating a system for viewing the 
development results for each of the country’s available 
financial  flows,  and,  on  the  other  hand,  of  exploring 
options  for  the  coherent  integration  of  Government 
priorities with those of the international agenda.
To complement the foregoing efforts, we continue 
to  urge  the  revitalization  of  the  Global  Partnership 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  support  for  the 
relevance  of  the  principle  of  shared  but  differentiated 
responsibility.  We  also  advocate  for  the  importance 
of  ensuring  that  partners  honour  their  commitments 
undertaken within the framework of the internationally 
agreed  development  goals  and  of  the  predictability 
of  development  aid,  based  on  the  provisions  of  the 
Paris  Declaration  on  Aid  Effectiveness.  With  the 
help of those tools we will be able to establish sound 
institutional foundations for the efficient and effective 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  helping  to  fulfil  the  “universal  push  to 
transform our world”.
Making  our  global  agenda  a  reality  requires  a 
collective  commitment  on  the  part  of  all  of  us  to 
strengthening  multilateral  institutions.  To  that  end, 
we  continue  to  believe  firmly  in  the  importance  of 
reforming  the  United  Nations  as  a  whole  and  the 
Security  Council  in  particular,  as  well  as  changing 
the  architecture  of  international  financial  institutions 
on  the  basis  of  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  and 
improving cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional economic organizations, particularly where the 
prevention and resolution of conflicts are concerned.
As  we  meet  today  in  this  Hall,  we  reaffirm  our 
commitment  to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations, a universal Organization 
with  a  mandate  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security and to defend human rights. We recognize the 
United Nations as an essential platform for political and 
diplomatic discussion and international cooperation on 
peace and development. In that regard, we would like to 
express our appreciation for the excellent and successful 
job  that  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  has  done  in 
completing  his  mandate  to  lead  the  Organization  for 
two  terms.  We  hope  that  under  its  soon-to-be-elected 
incoming  Secretary-General,  the  United  Nations  will 
strengthen its relations with Mozambique, particularly 
in  terms  of  helping  us  to  implement  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  We  also  look  forward  to  seeing 
the  implementation  of  reforms  that  will  make  our 
Organization  more  democratic,  more  representative 
and better able to serve all nations and peoples of the 
world.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
commitment to continuing our exemplary cooperation 
with  the  United  Nations  and  all  its  Member  States 
in  order  to  achieve  our  noble  objectives,  particularly 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  and  to  build  a 
prosperous,  peaceful  world  for  the  benefit  of  all  its 
peoples.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Mozambique for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Filipe Jacinto Nyusi, President of the Republic 
of Mozambique, was escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 6 p.m.
16-29453
25/25
