United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
41st plenary meeting
Friday, 4 November 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.41
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 63
Report of the Human Rights Council
Report of the Human Rights Council (A/71/53, 
A/71/53/Add.1 and A/71/53/Add.2)
The  President:  In  connection  with  this  item,  I 
would  like  to  recall  that  at  its  2nd  plenary  meeting, 
on 16 September 2016, the General Assembly decided 
to consider agenda item 63 in plenary meeting and in 
the Third Committee pursuant to resolution 65/281, of 
17 June 2011.
If members permit me, I shall now make a statement.
I would like to begin by welcoming to the General 
Assembly  Ambassador  Choi  Kyonglim,  President  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council.  I  would  also  like  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  congratulate  once  again  the  14 
new members of the Human Rights Council that were 
elected by the General Assembly last week.
For  the  Human  Rights  Council,  2016  has  been  a 
landmark  year.  As  the  international  community  has 
commemorated the tenth anniversary of the Council’s 
establishment and has had an opportunity to reflect on 
its  achievements,  we  have  considered  its  pre-eminent 
place in the global human rights architecture. By any 
measure, it is clear that the Human Rights Council has 
played  a  critical  role  in  promoting  the  universality, 
interdependence and indivisibility of all human rights. 
It has resolutely strengthened our collective efforts to 
protect human rights across our world.
The comprehensive and interconnected human rights 
mechanisms that the Council oversees — including the 
Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR),  special  procedures 
mandate-holders  and  treaty  bodies  —  have  put  the 
Council at the forefront of our work to uphold existing 
human  rights  standards.  They  have  allowed  us  to 
environment stablish new norms, provide accountability 
and remedies for violations and ensure that the human 
rights dimensions of emerging challenges are elevated 
and  understood.  Time  and  again,  the  Human  Rights 
Council  has  shone  a  light  on  human  rights  violations 
across our world and brought global attention to gross 
and systematic violations requiring urgent action by the 
international community.
The  Universal  Periodic  Review  has  been  central 
to  the  Council’s  success.  The  UPR  is  based  on  the 
fundamental  premise  of  equal  treatment  of  nations 
and  of  enabling  all  Member  States  to  engage  with 
one  another  on  an  equal  footing  in  order  to  improve 
human rights in all countries. The open and inclusive 
nature  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  process  has 
been  fundamental  to  its  credibility,  and  I  welcome 
the  participation  of  civil  society,  national  human 
rights  institutions,  academia  and  other  human  rights 
defenders in these processes. To that end, I encourage 
all Member States to do all that they can to enable civil 
society to conduct its work freely in our societies and to 
participate fully in human rights mechanisms.
As 
global 
shifts 
attention 
the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  we  should  all  recognize 
the 
the  Sustainable  Development 
implementation  of 
towards 
that 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-36139 (E)
*1636139*
A/71/PV.41 
04/11/2016
Goals  is  the  best  way  to  enable  all  people  to  realize 
their  rights.  Indeed,  the  2030  Agenda  is  premised  on 
the  fundamental  recognition  of  human  rights  for  all 
people, and, if it is implemented effectively, will allow 
us  to  build  peaceful  and  inclusive  societies,  empower 
women and girls, tackle discrimination and inequality, 
end  exploitation,  trafficking  and  torture  and  promote 
the rule of law, eliminate extreme poverty and combat 
climate change.
The Human Rights Council has a central role to play 
in promoting the human rights dimensions of the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  Ensuring  that 
implementation of the Agenda is pursued in a manner 
consistent  with  international  human  rights  standards 
demands attention from all of us.
While  important  progress  has  been  made  on 
humankind’s behalf by the Human Rights Council, it is 
clear that much more work remains to be done. In the 
decade ahead, we must stand firm in our support of the 
work of the Human Rights Council, however difficult 
that may be for some of us from time to time. It will be 
essential that the Council remain visible and credible, 
retain its universal character and continue in its central 
role in the United Nations architecture.
Safeguarding  the  human  rights  of  the  people  of 
our  world  requires  vigilance  and  universality.  I  leave 
members with Nelson Mandela’s famous words:
“[t]o deny people their human rights is to challenge 
their very humanity”.
In  accordance  with  resolution  65/281,  of  17  June 
2011, I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Choi 
Kyonglim, President of the Human Rights Council.
Mr. Choi Kyonglim: It is a great pleasure and an 
honour  for  me  to  come  before  the  General  Assembly 
today  to  present  the  annual  report  (A/71/53)  of  the 
Human Rights Council. Please allow me to first take this 
opportunity to congratulate the newly elected members 
of the Council. I am sure that all the new members will 
make a significant contribution to advancing the shared 
goal of all Council members, that is, the promotion and 
protection of the human rights of all.
rights, peace and stability. We have witnessed that key 
challenges  for  the  international  community  —  from 
religious  confrontations  to  military  provocations,  to 
the refugee crisis — will not easily go away. And the 
human  rights  situation  in  the  world  is  deteriorating 
before our eyes.
On one level, it is clear that many, if not all, of these 
challenges  flow  from  a  failure  on  the  part  of  States, 
and  increasingly  non-State  actors  as  well,  to  respect, 
protect  and  uphold  international  human  rights  norms. 
On  another  level,  during  such  periods  of  uncertainty 
and  insecurity,  human  rights  violations  and  abuses 
become more likely and more frequent, thereby further 
undermining security and heightening vulnerability.
Against  this  challenging  and  complex  backdrop, 
the  Human  Rights  Council  has  worked  hard  to  fulfil 
its  mandate  as  the  premier  United  Nations  forum  for 
human  rights.  The  record  and  achievements  of  the 
Council  since  its  establishment  are  a  testimony  to  its 
responsiveness  and  flexibility  in  dealing  with  human 
rights  issues  all  over  the  world.  This  year  alone, 
the  Human  Rights  Council  adopted  a  total  of  149 
resolutions,  decisions  and  President’s  statements.  Of 
those,  114  were  adopted  without  a  vote.  Many  of  the 
resolutions, including on country-specific issues, were 
cross-regional  initiatives,  affirming  the  capacity  of 
the Council to overcome political differences and take 
unified action on important human rights issues.
Syria  continued  to  be  high  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  throughout  the  year.  The 
Council  extended  the  mandate  of  the  Commission  of 
Inquiry once again, and just two weeks ago the Council 
held  a  special  session  on  the  deteriorating  situation 
of  human  rights  in  Syria  and  the  recent  situation  in 
Aleppo.  During  the  twenty-fifth  special  session,  the 
Human  Rights  Council  requested  the  Commission  of 
Inquiry  to  conduct  a  comprehensive  special  inquiry 
into the events in Aleppo in order to identify all those 
for  whom  there  are  reasonable  grounds  to  suspect 
responsibility  for  alleged  violations  and  abuses  of 
international human rights law and to support efforts to 
ensure that perpetrators are held accountable.
We  began  2016  with  hope  and  optimism  and  a 
common resolve to build a safer world and better future 
for all. Regrettably, though, we have moved through the 
year  faced  with  ongoing,  as  well  as  emerging,  armed 
conflicts,  humanitarian  crises,  terrorist  attacks  and 
other events that shake our notions of security, human 
The  Council  also  considered  the  updates  and 
reports  of  the  Commission  of  Inquiry  on  Human 
Rights in Eritrea and the report of the United Nations 
Independent Investigation on Burundi, established last 
December pursuant to Human Rights Council resolution 
S-24/1,  when  the  Council  requested  that  the  High 
2/29 
16-36139
04/11/2016 
A/71/PV.41
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  dispatch  a  mission 
of  independent  experts  to  Burundi  to  investigate 
violations and abuses of human rights committed since 
April  2015.  Following  the  report  of  the  Independent 
Investigation  in  September,  the  Council  decided  to 
establish a Commission of Inquiry on the human rights 
situation  in  Burundi,  with  a  mandate  to  conduct  a 
thorough investigation into human rights violations and 
abuses since April 2015.
While recalling the findings and recommendations 
of the Commission of Inquiry on Human rights in the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  the  Human 
Rights Council requested that the High Commissioner 
designate  two  independent  experts  to  support  of  the 
work  of  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of 
human  rights  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea. The group of independent experts is mandated 
to  focus  on  issues  of  accountability  for  human  rights 
violations, in particular where such violations amount 
to  crimes  against  humanity.  The  experts  will  present 
their report to the Council next March.
In  the  past  year,  the  Council  also  established  the 
Commission on Human Rights in South Sudan through 
resolution  31/20,  of  23  March  2016.  The  Commission 
is mandated to monitor and report on the situation of 
human rights in the country and make recommendations 
for its improvement. The Commission will also present 
its report to the Council next March and will share the 
report with the General Assembly.
In 2016, the Council extended the existing country-
specific  special  procedures  mandates  for  Belarus, 
the  Central  African  Republic,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Eritrea,  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran, Mali, Myanmar, Somalia and 
the Sudan.
In addition to responding to urgent situations and 
crises  around  the  world,  the  Human  Rights  Council 
also addressed a number of global issues throughout the 
year. In particular, during this year’s high-level panel 
discussion on promoting the mainstreaming of human 
rights  throughout  the  United  Nations  system,  the 
Council  explored  new  opportunities  arising  from  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development to advance 
human  rights  and  discussed  how  the  2030  Agenda 
could help bring the three pillars of the United Nations 
closer together.
In efforts to leave no one behind, the Human Rights 
Council  engaged  in  a  wide  range  of  thematic  debates 
and held 20 panel discussions on important issues, such 
as the state of racial discrimination worldwide, human 
rights  and  climate  change,  the  rights  of  persons  with 
disabilities, the rights of the child, the human rights of 
women, using sport and the Olympic ideal to promote 
human  rights  for  all,  the  human  rights  dimensions  of 
preventing  and  countering  violent  extremism  and  the 
contribution of parliaments to the work of the Council 
and its Universal Periodic Review (UPR).
The  special  procedures  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council played a central role in responding to human 
rights  challenges  throughout  the  year,  acting  as  the 
Council’s  ears  and  eyes  and  shining  a  light  into  the 
darkest corners of the world. The reports of the special 
procedures  mandate-holders  constitute  one  of  the 
main sources of reliable information on human rights 
situations around the world and provide a solid basis for 
the dialogues and debates in the Council.
In  2016,  the  Council  established  two  new  special 
procedures  mandates:  an 
independent  expert  on 
protection  against  violence  and  discrimination  based 
on sexual orientation and gender identity; and a special 
rapporteur  on  the  right  to  development.  The  Council 
also  decided  to  modify  the  mandate  of  the  Expert 
Mechanism  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples  and 
increased the number of members to seven, to represent 
each  of  the  seven  indigenous  sociocultural  regions. 
I  hope  that  the  creation  and  enhancement  of  these 
mandates will result in further strengthening the work 
of  the  Council  in  promoting  and  protecting  human 
rights and fundamental freedoms for all.
Allow  me  now  to  turn  to  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review, which is taking place in Geneva as we speak. 
We are quickly approaching the end of the second cycle 
of  the  UPR,  and  the  third  cycle  is  set  to  commence 
next  May.  The  process  continues  to  receive  positive 
feedback from all stakeholders, and I would like to take 
this opportunity to highlight some of the positive trends 
and some of the challenges being faced.
The  principle  of  the  universality  of  the  UPR 
continues to be preserved, with the participation of all 
States Members of the United Nations. In the majority 
of  cases,  delegations  continue  to  be  represented  at 
the  ministerial  level.  However,  the  participation  and 
involvement of small countries and States that do not 
have  representation  in  Geneva  is  a  challenge  to  the 
principle of universality. In that regard, the increased 
attention given to the needs of those States through a 
16-36139
3/29
A/71/PV.41 
04/11/2016
variety  of  programmes  and  activities  have  helped  to 
keep them engaged in the process.
Another important principle in the UPR process is its 
periodicity. The focus by States on the implementation 
of recommendations received in previous review cycles 
when  drafting  their  national  reports  and  presenting 
them in the working group is most welcome and duly 
reflects  the  cyclical  nature  of  the  reviews.  Going 
forward into the third cycle, the focus on follow-up and 
implementation  will  need  to  be  strengthened  in  order 
to  safeguard  the  effectiveness  and  credibility  of  the 
follow-up mechanism.
States 
are 
increasingly 
strengthening 
their 
national  processes  and  systems  in  order  to  ensure 
more  systematic  engagement  with,  and  follow-up 
on,  the  recommendations  of  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review,  along  with  other  human  rights  mechanisms. 
That  approach  is  highly  encouraged  and  should  be 
further pursued.
Protecting  the  role  of  civil  society  and  national 
human  rights  institutions  in  our  work  is  an  issue 
of  great  importance.  The  active  participation  and 
contributions  of  civil  society  are  central  to  the  work 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  its  mechanisms, 
making  the  Council  unique  among  United  Nations 
intergovernmental  bodies.  In  the  course  of  this  year, 
I  have  been  apprised  and  seized  of  alleged  cases  of 
intimidation,  threats  and  reprisals  against  individuals 
who  cooperate  or  have  cooperated  with  the  Human 
Rights Council and its mechanisms. I have repeatedly 
appealed to the Council to ensure the safe participation 
of  civil  society  in  our  work  and,  when  necessary,  I 
have  followed  up  directly  with  the  States  concerned. 
I  would  like  once  again  to  reiterate  that,  without  the 
contribution  of  civil  society,  the  Council  and  its 
mechanisms would lack the substantive information and 
support needed to effectively perform their mandates. 
It  is  essential  that  representatives  of  civil  society  be 
afforded adequate protection to operate in a free, open 
and safe environment that protects and promotes their 
own human rights.
Let  me  now  turn  to  the  issues  that  directly  touch 
upon  the  Assembly’s  work.  This  year,  the  Human 
Rights  Council  adopted  a  number  of  resolutions  with 
recommendations  made  to  the  General  Assembly. 
Through resolution 31/17, on the human rights situation 
in Syria, adopted in March, the Human Rights Council 
recommended  that  the  General  Assembly  submit  the 
reports of the Independent International Commission of 
Inquiry on the Syrian Arabic Republic to the Security 
Council for appropriate action. And in June, the Human 
Rights  Council  requested  that  the  General  Assembly 
submit the report and oral updates of the Commission 
of Inquiry on human rights in Eritrea to all the relevant 
organs  of  the  United  Nations  for  consideration  and 
appropriate action.
justice 
The  Council  also  recommended  that  the  General 
Assembly  remain  apprised  of  the  matter  of  ensuring 
accountability  and 
for  all  violations  of 
international law in the occupied Palestinian territory, 
including  East  Jerusalem.  The  General  Assembly  is 
advised to remain seized of the matter until it is satisfied 
that  appropriate  action  with  regard  to  implementing 
the recommendations made in the report of the United 
Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict has 
been or is being taken at the national or international 
level  to  ensure  justice  for  victims  and  accountability 
for  perpetrators.  Finally,  in  resolution  32/28,  adopted 
in  June,  the  Council  recommended  that  the  General 
Assembly adopt the Declaration on the Right to Peace.
Before I conclude, I would like to briefly touch upon 
the  significant  challenges  being  faced  by  the  Human 
Rights Council in terms of the resources required for 
it  to  continue  its  activities.  As  I  mentioned  earlier, 
the  Council  continues  to  adopt  numerous  resolutions 
and  decisions,  which  carry  significant 
resource 
implications.  While  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  is  asked  to 
comply with an increasing number of mandates arising 
from  Human  Rights  Council  decisions,  its  regular 
budget has not kept pace with that growth.
I  would  also  like  to  refer  to  a  crucial  additional 
challenge,  that  is,  the  Human  Rights  Council  is  now 
faced with the real possibility of having its meeting time 
reduced and capped. From 2018 onwards, the Council 
may have to reduce its meeting time by as many as 23 
meetings per year in order to comply with the limitations 
being discussed. These restrictions would greatly affect 
the work of the Human Rights Council, particularly its 
most  distinctive  characteristic  —  its  responsiveness 
in  addressing  human  rights  issues  worldwide  in  an 
efficient and timely manner. Although I am fully aware 
of the current financial challenges being faced, I seek 
the  cooperation  and  support  of  all  Member  States  in 
addressing  this  issue  through  the  Fifth  Committee. 
In  that  regard,  it  is  my  intention  to  propose  to  the 
Council,  at  its  organizational  session  on  5  December, 
4/29 
16-36139
04/11/2016 
A/71/PV.41
that it adopt a draft decision requesting the support of 
the General Assembly for the organization of its 2017 
sessions, which may amount to 150 meetings.
Despite  the  tireless  efforts  of  the  Council,  and  of 
the  United  Nations  as  a  whole,  to  effectively  respond 
to  the  multiple  crises  that  we  have  faced  in  2016, 
the  human  rights  situation  worldwide  has  shown 
little  improvement  since  the  beginning  of  the  year. 
Human rights violations and abuses are still rampant, 
humanitarian  conditions  are  worsening  and  armed 
conflicts continue to rage. But we cannot lose hope or 
optimism  —  these  two  words  are  our  guiding  lights 
with  which  we  illuminate  the  darkest  corners  of  the 
world. And we must make additional concerted efforts 
throughout the United Nations system if we are to bring 
about positive changes in the world. I am certain that 
together we can effect gradual change.
I wish to take this opportunity to thank the General 
Assembly for its support for the Human Rights Council 
and  the  Council’s  work  over  the  past  10  years.  The 
Human  Rights  Council  will  continue  to  faithfully 
discharge its responsibilities as a subsidiary body of the 
General  Assembly  and  as  the  United  Nations  premier 
forum on human rights.
Finally,  on  behalf  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
I  hope  that  the  General  Assembly  will  continue  to 
provide  its  full  and  effective  support  to  the  Council 
through the remainder of the tenth cycle, and I would 
like  to  welcome  all  members  to  the  Human  Rights 
Council next year.
The  President:  I  thank  President  Choi  Kyonglim 
for introducing the report of the Human Rights Council.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the 
European Union.
Ms. Cardona (European Union): I have the honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  The 
candidate  countries  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Montenegro,  Serbia  and  Albania;  and  the 
country  of  the  Stabilization  and  Association  Process 
and potential candidate Bosnia and Herzegovina align 
themselves with this statement.
The  European  Union  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Ambassador 
Choi  Kyonglim,  for  presenting  the  Council’s  eleventh 
annual report (A/71/53) to the General Assembly.
The  European  Union  has  been  a  strong  supporter 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  since  its  establishment. 
As  this  year  marks  the  Council’s  tenth  anniversary, 
we  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm 
our  continued  support  and  our  engagement  to  make 
further progress. Being the only United Nations body 
mandated  to  support  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
all  human  rights  around  the  globe,  the  Council  has 
strengthened the ability of the United Nations to help 
ensure  that  all  persons  enjoy  their  human  rights  and 
that  violations  thereof  are  disclosed.  We  attach  great 
importance to both the credibility and the effectiveness 
of the Council.
The European Union will continue to make every 
effort to ensure that the Human Rights Council is not 
only  able  to  address  violations  and  abuses  of  human 
rights,  including  gross  and  systematic  violations  and 
abuses,  and  to  respond  promptly  to  human  rights 
emergencies,  but  also 
improve  human  rights 
standards and their implementation worldwide through 
systematic  work  on  relevant  thematic  issues.  In  that 
context, the European Union recalls the importance of 
the  Council’s  independence  and  strongly  opposes  any 
attempts to undermine the institutional position of the 
Council within the United Nations system.
to 
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  central  role 
played  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  addressing 
human  rights  situations  throughout  the  world.  The 
severe  consequences  of  the  crisis  in  Syria  and  the 
violations  committed  by  all  parties,  particularly  the 
Syrian regime and its allies, cannot be ignored by any 
State. Any breaches of international law, in particular 
of  international  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights 
law,  some  of  which  may  constitute  war  crimes  or 
crimes  against  humanity,  must  be  brought  to  justice. 
In that context, the Council’s ongoing response to the 
crisis  remains  critically  important,  as  mirrored  by  its 
efforts  to  foster  accountability  and  to  fight  against 
impunity. We would also like to stress the importance 
of the promotion and protection of human rights as the 
key to conflict prevention.
The Council has demonstrated its commitment to 
providing technical assistance and capacity-building to 
the  Governments  of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Libya  and  Mali  to 
promote human rights, and we welcome the continued 
support  that  has  been  rendered  to  the  occupied 
Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, as well 
as the Republic of Guinea, South Sudan and Ukraine. 
We  trust  that  the  Council  will  continue  to  closely 
16-36139
5/29
A/71/PV.41 
04/11/2016
monitor  situations  where  technical  assistance  and 
capacity-building can make a difference and that it will 
take action where necessary.
On  28  October,  the  General  Assembly  elected  14 
new  members  of  the  Council.  Serving  as  a  Council 
member  entails  important  responsibilities.  Paragraph 
9 of General Assembly resolution 60/251 provides that
“members elected to the Council shall uphold the 
highest standards in the promotion and protection 
of human rights” .
While  we  congratulate  the  new  members,  we  also 
encourage  everyone  to  pay  careful  attention  to  the 
human  rights  records  and  commitments  of  States 
throughout their membership.
We  attach  great  importance  to  all  aspects  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council’s  work,  from  the  Universal 
Periodic  Review  to  the  special  procedures  that  are 
mandated  by  the  Council’s  resolutions.  It  is  with  that 
in mind that we must voice our strong concerns at the 
draft  resolution  that  has  been  submitted  in  the  Third 
Committee on the report of the Human Rights Council. 
That  draft  resolution  seeks  to  subvert  a  legitimate 
decision  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  by  deferring 
one  particular  resolution,  namely,  Council  resolution 
32/2,  of  30  June  2016,  on  protection  against  violence 
and  discrimination  based  on  sexual  orientation  and 
gender  identity.  In  our  view,  any  attempt  to  call  into 
question the legitimacy of that resolution has no legal 
foundation.  The  text  was  adopted  in  Geneva  in  June, 
and, on that basis, Mr. Vitit Muntarbhorn was appointed 
at  the  thirty-third  session  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council in September as the new independent expert. 
All  47  members  of  the  Council  went  along  with  that 
appointment. Other current mandate-holders have been 
appointed on the basis of voted resolutions. To question 
that  mandate  is  to  question  the  delicate  institutional 
relationship between the Human Rights Council and the 
General  Assembly  and  their  respective  competences. 
The creation of a special procedure is well within the 
purview of the Human Rights Council and should not 
be  questioned  or  reopened  by  the  General  Assembly. 
Otherwise,  the  functioning  of  the  Council  and  the 
work  of  the  Member  States  in  the  Council  would  be 
seriously called into question. Moreover, there should 
be no misunderstanding about the function of the new 
independent  expert  and  how  it  relates  to  the  need  for 
States  to  protect  the  human  rights  of  all  individuals 
without distinction of any kind. No one should have to 
suffer  violence  or  discrimination  on  the  basis  of  who 
they are.
We strongly encourage all States and stakeholders 
to  cooperate  with  the  special  procedures  as  a  means 
to  enhance  the  protection  and  promotion  of  human 
rights,  and  we  reaffirm  notably  that  States  elected 
to  membership  of  the  Council  are  required  to  fully 
cooperate with it.
The  EU  welcomes  the  continued  cooperation  of 
the Government of Myanmar in granting access to the 
United Nations Special Rapporteur. That is a positive 
example and one which we trust will be followed by other 
countries. We hope that the Government of Myanmar 
will  also  see  the  full  benefit  of  opening  an  office  of 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  (OHCHR),  with  a  full  mandate,  in 
the light of the positive experience in countries across 
other  regions.  We  also  welcome  the  extensions  of  the 
country-specific mandates of the Special Rapporteurs 
on the situation of human rights in Iran, the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  Belarus,  and  the 
extension  of  the  mandates  of  the  independent  experts 
on the situation of human rights in Haiti, the Sudan, the 
Central African Republic and Mali.
We welcome the establishment of a Commission for 
Human Rights in South Sudan, and we take note of the 
final  report  of  the  Commission  of  Inquiry  on  Human 
Rights in Eritrea. We hope that the General Assembly 
and  other  relevant  United  Nations  organs  will  give  it 
due attention. In the light of the ongoing human rights 
violations  and  abuses,  we  welcome  the  consensual 
adoption of the resolution on Yemen and look forward 
to  the  High  Commissioner’s  update  on  its  findings  at 
the next Council session, in March 2017. Similarly, we 
welcome  the  resolution  addressing  the  human  rights 
concerns in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The  European  Union  would  also  like  to  highlight 
the  importance  of  the  resolution  on  the  human  rights 
situation  in  Burundi,  which,  in  response  to  the  latest 
report  of  a  group  of  independent  experts,  establishes 
a  commission  of  inquiry  into  alleged  grave  human 
rights violations committed in the country. We look to 
Burundi, as a member of the Council, to fully cooperate 
with that commission once it is established, as well as 
with  other  international  human  rights  mechanisms. 
Members of the Human Rights Council should uphold 
the highest standards in the promotion and protection 
6/29 
16-36139
04/11/2016 
A/71/PV.41
of human rights, and we reiterate our urgent call to the 
Government of Burundi to do so.
Council.  It  assures  him  of  its  continuous  support  and 
cooperation in the discharge of his duties.
The  European  Union  attaches  great  importance 
to  the  valuable  contributions  made  by  civil  society 
to  the  work  of  the  Council  and  is  gravely  concerned 
regarding attacks and threats against, and harassment 
and intimidation of, participants from civil society and 
other stakeholders.
The European Union remains strongly committed to 
the Universal Periodic Review (UPR), a truly universal 
and unique mechanism within the United Nations that 
addresses all human rights and is applicable to all States 
Members of the United Nations without distinction or 
discrimination. As we are soon approaching the third 
cycle  of  the  UPR,  we  encourage  States  to  further 
strengthen  the  focus  on  implementation  of  previously 
accepted  recommendations.  We  acknowledge 
the 
importance  of  providing  technical  assistance  and 
capacity-building with a view to the implementation of 
UPR recommendations, and we are immensely grateful 
for  the  valuable  support  provided  by  OHCHR  in  that 
regard. Finally, we welcome the important contributions 
made by civil society in the UPR process.
In  conclusion, 
let  me  reiterate  our  ongoing 
commitment to contributing to the work of the Human 
Rights  Council  and  to  further  strengthening  its  role 
in  the  protection  and  development  of  international 
human  rights  law  and  in  the  prevention  of  human 
rights  violations  and  abuses.  We  will  continue  to 
systematically  uphold  and  ensure  implementation  of 
existing international norms and standards, to strongly 
advocate  for  the  universality  of  human  rights  and  to 
promote  the  observance  by  all  States  of  all  human 
rights and fundamental freedoms.
Mr.  Ntwaagae  (Botswana):  I  have  the  honour 
to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States.
The  Group  adds 
its  congratulatory  voice 
in 
connection  with  the  newly  elected  and  re-elected 
members of the Human Rights Council. The Group of 
African  States  welcomes  the  President  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  Mr.  Choi  Kyonglim,  and  wishes  to 
express its appreciation for the opportunity to dialogue 
with  him  on  the  activities  of  the  Council  over  the 
past year. The Group commends the President for his 
leadership and commitment and for his professionalism 
and constructiveness in the conduct of the work of the 
The  Group  of  African  States  wishes  to  reaffirm 
the Council’s mandate, as set out in resolution 60/251, 
of  promoting  universal  respect  for,  the  protection  of, 
all  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  for  all, 
without distinction of any kind and in a fair and equal 
manner  and  make  recommendations  thereon.  On  that 
basis, the Group has been consistently supportive of the 
work of the Council.
The Group of African States views the principles 
on  which  the  Council’s  mandate  rests  as  extremely 
important, particularly the principle of cooperation and 
genuine dialogue, which is aimed at strengthening the 
capacity of Member States to comply with their human 
rights  obligations.  It  is  therefore  incumbent  upon  the 
Council in discharging its mandate to firmly apply the 
principles of universality, objectivity and non-selectivity 
in the consideration of human rights issues.
The Group of African States is convinced that the 
Universal Periodic Review remains the most effective 
mechanism of universal application to assist States in 
fulfilling their human rights obligations. In our view, the 
mechanism remains relevant and key to the promotion 
and protection of human rights. The Group would like 
to reaffirm the need to preserve the cooperative nature 
and principle of dialogue of the mechanism. The Group 
firmly believes that it is critical that the United Nations 
Voluntary Fund for Financial and Technical Assistance 
for the Implementation of the Univeral Periodic Review 
be  provided  with  adequate  resources  to  assist  States 
to  develop  national  capacity  and  expertise  for  the 
implementation of the agreed recommendations.
While  the  Group  of  African  States  reiterates  its 
support  for  the  mechanisms  and  special  procedures 
of the Council and the important work they undertake 
in  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms,  the  Group  believes  that  there 
is a need for rationalization of these mechanisms and 
special  procedures  in  order  for  them  to  be  effective. 
The Group would like to emphasize also the need for 
the procedures to comply with the institution-building 
package,  the  code  of  conduct  of  mandate-holders 
and  their  respective  mandates.  In  that  regard,  we 
would  like  to  express  our  support  for  the  item  on  the 
Council’s agenda that relates to technical cooperation 
and capacity-building in the field of human rights. We 
take  this  opportunity  to  stress  that  this  agenda  item 
16-36139
7/29
A/71/PV.41 
04/11/2016
should  not  be  used  to  serve  other  objectives,  such  as 
monitoring  and  investigation.  Advisory  services  on 
human rights issues should be provided only when the 
State concerned so requests, based on its priorities and 
national ownership, with full respect for its sovereignty 
and political independence.
The  annual  report  (A/71/53)  before  the  Assembly 
sets  out  in  a  comprehensive  manner  the  resolutions 
that  were  adopted  by  the  Council  during  its  yearly 
deliberations. The Group of African States is cognizant 
of  the  provisions  of  General  Assembly  resolution 
60/251, specifically of paragraph 5 (i), which provides 
for  recommendations  to  be  made  by  the  Council 
to  the  Third  Committee  of  the  General  Assembly; 
hence its support for the universal membership of the 
General Assembly.
The  Group  of  African  States  strongly  deplores 
all  forms  of  stereotyping,  exclusion,  stigmatization, 
prejudice,  intolerance,  discrimination,  hate  speech 
and  violence  directed  against  peoples,  communities 
and individuals on any grounds whatsoever, wherever 
and  whenever  they  occur.  It  is  greatly  perturbed  by 
the  attempts  to  introduce  and  impose  new  notions 
and concepts that are not internationally agreed upon, 
particularly in areas where no legal foundation exists in 
any international human rights instrument. We are even 
more disturbed at the attempt to focus on individuals on 
the basis of their sexual preference and behaviour, while 
ignoring that intolerance and discrimination regrettably 
exist in various parts of the world, be it on the basis of 
colour, race, sex or religion, to mention only a few. By 
creating divisions, those attempts not only undermine 
the intent of the drafters and signatories of the various 
human rights instruments, but also seriously jeopardize 
the  entire  international  human  rights  framework.  We 
call upon all Member States to refrain from attempting 
to give priority to the rights of certain individuals, as this 
could result in negative discrimination at the expense of 
other internationally agreed rights and thereby conflict 
with the principles of non-discrimination and equality. 
Those principles are well entrenched in the Charter of 
the  United  Nations  and  other  internationally  agreed 
human rights instruments, which all reaffirm our faith 
in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth 
of the human person and in the equal rights of men and 
women, without distinction.
The  adoption  in  June  of  resolution  32/2,  entitled 
“Protection against violence and discrimination based 
on  sexual  orientation  and  gender  identity”,  is  a  clear 
illustration of such attempts. The Group is concerned 
because  notions  that  have  not  received  international 
acceptance,  such  as  sexual  orientation  and  gender 
identity,  are  being  given  attention  to  the  detriment  of 
issues  of  paramount  importance,  such  as  the  right  to 
development  and  the  racism  agenda.  We  are  alarmed 
because  the  Council  is  delving  into  matters  that  fall 
essentially  within  the  domestic  jurisdiction  of  States. 
That  runs  counter  to  the  commitment  in  the  Charter 
of the United Nations to respecting the sovereignty of 
States  and  the  principle  of  non-intervention.  Of  even 
greater  significance  is  the  ominous  reference  to  two 
notions:  sexual  orientation  and  gender  identity.  We 
wish to state that those two notions are not and should 
not  be  linked  to  existing  international  human  rights 
instruments. In that regard, the Group of African States 
has submitted a draft resolution calling for the deferral 
of  the  consideration  of,  and  action  on,  Human  Rights 
Council  resolution  32/2,  of  30  June  2016,  in  order  to 
allow time for further discussions and consultations on 
the legality of the creation of this mandate, which my 
colleague from the European Union just made reference 
to. We therefore call for the suspension of the activities 
of  the  appointed  independent  expert  pending  a  final 
determination on the issue.
We  urge  all  States  and  the  relevant  international 
human rights mechanisms to intensify their efforts to 
consolidate the international community’s commitment 
to the promotion and protection of the human rights of 
everyone  on  an  equal  footing,  without  exception,  and 
we  call  upon  all  Member  States  to  continue  to  step 
up  their  efforts  to  achieve  the  total  elimination  of  all 
forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and 
related intolerance.
In conclusion, the Group of African States wishes 
to  reassure  you,  Mr.  President,  of  our  full  support 
and  cooperation  and  to  reaffirm  its  commitment  to 
the  fundamental  principle  of  human  rights  for  all,  as 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
Mr. Wenaweser (Liechtenstein): I have the honour 
to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  Iceland  and  my 
own country, Liechtenstein.
We  thank  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  for  presenting  the  Council’s  report  (A/71/53) 
to  the  General  Assembly,  an  established  practice  that 
reinforces the dynamic relationship between the Council 
and the Assembly. The Council can look back on a busy, 
successful  and  historic  year  —  its  tenth  anniversary. 
8/29 
16-36139
04/11/2016 
A/71/PV.41
We  commend  President  Choi  Kyonglim  for  his  able 
leadership.  What  started  out  in  2006  as  a  project 
that  met  with  opposition  from  various  quarters  has 
now  become  one  of  the  international  community’s 
most  important  instruments  for  promoting  universal 
respect  for  human  rights  and  addressing  situations  of 
gross  and  systematic  human  rights  violations.  In  its 
10-year  history,  the  Council  has  adopted  landmark 
resolutions  and  appointed  special  mandate-holders  on 
important issues such as violence against women, the 
protection  of  human  rights  defenders  and  the  right  to 
privacy. It has also established several country-specific 
mechanisms, and in particular commissions of inquiry 
in  Syria,  Eritrea,  South  Sudan,  Libya,  Gaza,  North 
Korea and Burundi.
Many  of  those  achievements  reflect  the  original 
ideas behind the Council, that is, promoting universal 
respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
without distinction of any kind, guided by the principles 
of universality, impartiality, objectivity, non-selectivity 
and  constructive  dialogue  and  cooperation;  but  also 
addressing  specifically  those  situations  where  human 
rights  are  systematically  violated.  Unfortunately, 
the  Council  has  become  more  and  more  polarized  in 
recent years. The opposition to certain country-specific 
issues as well as thematic issues has become a matter 
of politics, and the actual human rights consequences 
for thousands — sometimes millions — of people have 
taken a back seat. That polarization has even encroached 
up  on  issues  on  which  members  had  previously  been 
united,  leading  to  regression  on  previously  agreed 
commitments  and  standards.  There  also  seems  to  be 
a  trend  towards  reduced  engagement  in  the  Human 
Rights Council — resolutions are often not subject to 
actual negotiations, and there are no genuine efforts to 
narrow  differences  and  to  increase  political  support. 
We hope that this is a trend that will soon be reversed.
The  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
was based on the understanding that those who served 
on it would commit themselves to cooperation and to the 
promotion and protection of human rights. In order to 
allow for informed decisions in the elections, candidate 
countries  are  asked  to  submit  voluntary  pledges  and 
commitments. The practice today is that, although a vast 
majority of States running for election to the Council 
make such submissions, these are barely a factor in our 
decision-making, and often amount to little more than 
a somewhat interesting read. We of course need to look 
at our own behaviour as the electorate. We can choose 
to  ask  for  genuine  commitments  and  implementation; 
yet  our  decision-making  today  is  largely  based  on 
considerations  that  have  little  to  do  with  the  strong 
performance  of  the  Council.  We  believe  that  overall 
political  commitments,  such  as  support  for  the  code 
of  conduct  regarding  Security  Council  action  against 
genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  and  war  crimes, 
as  elaborated  by  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and 
Transparency Group, should play an important part in 
our decision-making in Council elections.
Let me offer a few comments on issues covered in 
the latest report. We are concerned by the insufficient 
action  of  the  Council  on  the  situation  in  Yemen.  The 
Council adopted a resolution on technical assistance and 
capacity-building in the field of human rights — hardly 
a  reflection  of  the  actual  needs  on  the  ground.  Given 
the  reports  of  massive  and  frequent  violations  of 
international humanitarian law, the situation in Yemen 
deserves  nothing  short  of  a  commission  of  inquiry  to 
collect evidence of human rights abuses and violations.
The Council has been seized of the situation in Syria 
for several years now. Its most important decision was 
undoubtedly  the  creation  of  a  commission  of  inquiry, 
which has supplied ample evidence and documentation 
of war crimes and crimes against humanity committed 
by the conflict parties. The Council also met recently in 
special session to address the situation in Aleppo, which 
was of particular importance after the veto cast in the 
Security Council on 8 October (see S/PV.7785). While 
the efforts of the Commission in particular continue to 
be highly relevant, it is also obvious that the activities of 
the international community are inadequate, especially 
in the area of accountability, where we have failed the 
victims of the conflict in Syria for over five years now. 
We believe that the time has come for the Assembly to 
step up and play its own role in that respect.
In the reporting period, the Council created several 
new  mandates  for  special  procedures  and  renewed 
others. We call on all countries to cooperate with the 
special  procedures,  including  by  issuing  standing 
invitations,  and  to  enable  them  to  conduct  their  work 
independently and without interference. Their valuable 
work  supports  us  in  moving  towards  the  achievement 
of  commitments  we  have  made:  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, in the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights  in  conventions  and  in  recent  agreements  such 
as  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
We  commend  the  Council,  in  particular  for  its  recent 
establishment of a mandate for an independent expert 
16-36139
9/29
A/71/PV.41 
04/11/2016
on  protection  against  violence  and  discrimination 
based on sexual orientation and gender identity, and we 
congratulate  Mr.  Muntarbhorn  on  his  appointment  as 
the independent expert. Ever since the first resolution 
on  that  issue  was  put  forward  by  South  Africa  and 
Brazil in 2011, this issue has been high on the Council’s 
agenda.  The  setting  up  of  a  special  mandate  is  a 
reflection of the issue’s importance, further underlined 
by the many heinous crimes committed against lesbian, 
gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex persons around 
the globe.
took 
(Nepal),  Vice-President, 
Mr.  Bhattarai 
the Chair.
We would like to highlight that, in conformity with 
the  outcome  of  General  Assembly  resolution  65/281, 
entitled  “Review  of  the  Human  Rights  Council”,  it  is 
up to the plenary of the Assembly — and not its Third 
Committee — to take action on the report of the Council. 
The  review  includes  the  understanding  that  the  Third 
Committee is to consider and act on recommendations of 
the Council to the Assembly. We call on all delegations 
to respect the agreed understanding in the review and 
not to undo the valuable work carried out by the Human 
Rights Council.
Ms.  Wilson  (Australia):  Australia  supported  the 
establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  2006 
and, 10 years on, we remain convinced that the Council 
and its mechanisms continue to play a fundamental role 
in  upholding  universal  human  rights.  Today  we  have 
an opportunity to consider the Council’s achievements 
over the past year, of which there have been many, and I 
take this opportunity to briefly highlight a couple.
We  are  pleased  to  note  that  the  Council  adopted 
its first resolution on violence against women, with a 
strong  focus  on  indigenous  women.  We  welcome  the 
Council’s  increased  focus  on  improving  the  human 
rights  outcomes  for  indigenous  peoples  generally, 
including  by  strengthening  the  Expert  Mechanism 
on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples.  Australia  was 
also  pleased  to  sponsor  the  resolution  on  national 
institutions for the protection and promotion of human 
rights  at  the  Council’s  September  session,  which  was 
adopted by consensus.
Last but not least, like other delegations here, we wish 
to express our strong support for the Council’s resolution 
on  protection  against  violence  and  discrimination  on 
the  basis  of  sexual  orientation  and  gender  identity, 
including  the  appointment  of  an  independent  expert 
on  protection  against  violence  and  discrimination 
based  on  sexual  orientation  and  gender  identity.  That 
represents  a  significant  step  towards  recognizing  the 
need to protect the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender 
and intersex (LGBTI) community from discrimination 
and violence. I would stress that it is not an attempt to 
elevate  that  issue  over  other  human  rights  issues,  but 
simply to ensure similar recognition of the importance 
of LGBTI discrimination and violence as one of several 
serious international human rights issues.
In  that  regard,  we  continue  to  be  extremely 
disappointed to hear that some States, including some 
gathered here today, are challenging the appointment of 
the independent expert by the Human Rights Council. 
We would like to reiterate our position that it is up to the 
plenary  General  Assembly,  not  the  Third  Committee, 
to  consider  the  report  (A/71/53)  of  the  Council  in 
accordance  with  Assembly  resolution  65/281,  and  we 
take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  our  support  for  the 
independence  and  mandate  of  the  Council.  We  call 
on countries to support the appointment of the expert 
and  to  work  cooperatively  with  him  as  he  exercises 
his mandate. Australia has a long history of engaging 
cooperatively  with  human  rights  mechanisms  and 
processes,  including  through  our  standing  invitation 
to  special  procedure  mandate-holders,  and  we  look 
forward to welcoming a number of special rapporteurs 
over coming months.
Australia  will  continue  to  be  a  champion  for  the 
promotion and protection of human rights. For the first 
time, we have put forward our candidature for the Human 
Rights  Council,  for  the  period  2018-2020.  We  believe 
that all States should have an equal voice in the Council, 
regardless of size. We have been a strong supporter of 
the active participation of small island States and least 
developed countries in the Council, just as we are here 
in  New  York  and  in  the  United  Nations  system  more 
broadly. We were pleased to support the participation 
of  small  island  developing  States  and  least  developed 
countries  in  the  proceedings  of  the  tenth  anniversary 
session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva — the 
first Council session with universal participation. Given 
the  opportunity  to  serve  on  the  Council,  Australia 
would  focus  on  five  key  areas:  advancing  the  rights 
of  women  and  girls;  promoting  good  governance  and 
strong  democratic  institutions  everywhere;  protecting 
the  freedom  of  expression;  advancing  the  rights  of 
indigenous  peoples;  and  promoting  strong  national 
human rights institutions. Regardless of whether or not 
10/29 
16-36139
04/11/2016 
A/71/PV.41
Australia  is  on  the  Council,  we  will  remain  strongly 
committed  to  engaging  actively  and  constructively 
to  improve  the  human  rights  situation  for  all  people 
around the world.
Mr. Sukhee (Mongolia): At the outset, I would like 
to  express  our  thanks  to  His  Excellency  Ambassador 
Choi  Kyonglim,  President  of 
the  Human  Rights 
Council, for his leadership and his presentation of the 
Council’s  report  (A/71/53)  to  the  General  Assembly 
today. This year, the Council has been able to address 
pressing  human  rights  issues  and  adopt  a  number 
of  resolutions  and  decisions.  In  that  connection,  it 
should be emphasized that the tenth anniversary of the 
establishment  of  the  Council,  which  was  celebrated 
earlier  this  year,  was  an  opportunity  for  us  to  reflect 
on the Council’s achievements and challenges, evaluate 
lessons learned, prescribe necessary changes and look 
forward  to  a  stronger  and  more  effective  Council  in 
the future.
In  2016,  it  has  been  a  great  honour  for  Mongolia 
to serve the first year of its membership of the Human 
Rights  Council.  We  believe  that  the  Human  Rights 
Council  should  be  a  platform  for  enhanced  and  open 
discussion  on  human  rights  issues  with  a  positive 
impact on national policies. As a newly elected member, 
Monglia  is  focusing  on  a  number  of  priorities,  such 
as  ensuring  gender  equality,  protecting  the  rights  of 
women, children and persons with disabilities, fighting 
human trafficking in all its forms, combating racial and 
gender  discrimination,  abolishing  the  death  penalty, 
promoting the freedom of opinion and expression, and 
promoting the freedom of assembly and association.
  The  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights, 
fundamental freedoms, justice and equality have been 
at the core of all policies pursued by the Government 
of  Mongolia.  Accordingly,  Mongolia  has  been 
constructively  engaged  with 
the  Working  Group 
on  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR),  and  our 
second  national  report  was  reviewed  in  2015  under 
the  UPR  review  process.  In  order  to  implement  the 
recommendations of the second UPR, the Government 
of Mongolia adopted its national action plan, which was 
developed  through  consultative  processes  engaging 
all  relevant  stakeholders.  As  the  Council  approaches 
the  third  cycle  of  the  UPR,  more  focus  should  be 
given  to  ensuring  the  effective  implementation  of  the 
recommendations  made  during  previous  cycles.  In 
that regard, constructive engagement, cooperation and 
technical support are of the utmost importance.
We 
take 
this  opportunity 
the 
initiative  and  work  of  the  President  of  the  Council  in 
moving forward the discussion with Member States on 
improving the working methods of the Council with a 
view to enhancing the efficiency of its work.
to  commend 
like 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  reiterate  my 
Government’s  commitment  to  contributing  to  Human 
Rights  Council  activities  during 
its  membership 
through  voluntary  pledges  and  commitments  made  in 
accordance with General Assembly resolution 60/251.
Ms.  Mendelson  (United  States  of  America): 
The  Human  Rights  Council  is  a  critically  important 
institution; it ensures that human rights remain a focus 
of our work at the United Nations.
In  recent  days,  we  have  grown  concerned  at  the 
manner in which some Member States have dealt with 
the report (A/71/53) of the Human Rights Council. The 
United States strongly supports Human Rights Council 
resolution  32/2,  which  established  a  mandate  for  an 
independent expert on protection against violence and 
discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender 
identity.  Although  sexual  orientation  and  gender 
identity  are  sensitive  issues  for  some  countries,  no 
one  should  face  violence  or  discrimination  because 
of  their  sexual  orientation  or  gender  identity,  and 
these  issues  clearly  belong  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council.  The  Human  Rights  Council 
has  adopted  numerous  resolutions  on  persons  who 
experience  violence  and  discrimination  as  a  result 
of  specific  characteristics  or  circumstances,  such  as 
belonging to a minority group. The sexual orientation 
and gender identity mandate falls perfectly in line with 
these  existing  mandates  and  addresses  the  specific 
issues around violence and discrimination experienced 
by  persons  on  the  basis  of  their  sexual  orientation 
or  gender  identity.  We  also  strongly  support  the 
appointment of Mr. Vitit Muntarbhorn, a distinguished 
international law professor who has served on a number 
of bodies of the United Nations. He was appointed to 
this  position  on  30  September  and  has  already  begun 
his important work.
Yesterday, the African Group submitted its annual 
draft resolution on the Human Rights Council report. 
While  this  is  typically  procedural  in  nature,  this 
year’s draft resolution includes incredibly problematic 
language. It attempts to delay the consideration of the 
Human Rights Council resolution, spuriously objecting 
to the legal basis for the independent expert’s mandate. 
16-36139
11/29
A/71/PV.41 
04/11/2016
We  are  deeply  concerned  about  this  attempt.  Seeking 
to reopen a Human Rights Council mandate that some 
States deem objectionable, and to do so under the guise 
of  a  legal  concern,  is  inconsistent  with  respect  for 
the  Human  Rights  Council’s  ability  to  function.  Such 
an  attempt  has  never  been  made  before.  The  General 
Assembly  has  never  attempted  to  reopen  a  Human 
Rights  Council  mandate  where  a  mandate-holder  has 
been appointed and is fully functioning. This would set a 
very dangerous precedent. The Council has established 
many  mandates  that  various  countries  oppose,  but  no 
country has sought to relitigate those mandates in the 
Third Committee.
remember 
We  also  must 
that  civil  society 
organizations and Governments work courageously in 
all regions to protect the human rights of all persons, 
regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity. 
Our actions on the Africa Group’s draft resolution in the 
Third  Committee  and  in  the  plenary  of  the  Assembly 
will  have  significant  implications  for  their  work.  We 
must  continue  to  uphold  dignity  and  fundamental 
freedoms for all persons.
Members  of  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
Group will submit a draft amendment today removing 
the  language  that  goes  against  the  decision  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council.  We  strongly  urge  all  States 
to vote in favour of the draft amendment. If the draft 
amendment fails, we further strongly urge those present 
to vote against the draft resolution. which should take 
note of the report of the Human Rights Council in its 
entirety and not undermine the Council by relitigating 
a mandate.
Mrs. Rodríguez Abascal (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
The Human Rights Council was established as a result of 
the need to address double standards, confrontation and 
the  political  manipulation  of  the  now-defunct  Human 
Rights  Commission.  We  must  make  every  effort  to 
avoid a repeat of the negative practices that discredited 
the  Human  Rights  Commission  —  practices  that 
Cuba  roundly  rejects.  We  reiterate  our  concern  about 
the tendency in the Council to impose selectivity and 
double standards relative to the consideration of human 
rights situations, as is reflected in the report (A/71/53) 
currently under discussion. Today we must rescue the 
Council from the selectivity and political manipulation 
that  characterize  its  work  in  the  treatment  of  country 
situations.  Cooperation  and  respectful  dialogue  must 
be the guidelines for its work. 
Cuba  notes  that  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
has  been  strengthened  as  the  sole  existing  universal 
mechanism for a comprehensive analysis of the human 
rights situations in all countries; it is the main element 
that distinguishes the Council from the Human Rights 
Commission. That mechanism has proved to be a means 
for  international  cooperation  on  human  rights  issues, 
on  the  basis  of  constructive  dialogue  and  respect  for 
the  principles  of  universality,  objectivity,  impartiality 
and  non-selectivity.  Those  principles  must  be  equally 
respected by the special procedures of the Council and 
by the human rights treaty bodies, which, furthermore, 
must  observe  the  code  of  conduct  that  was  adopted 
when the Council was established as an institution. 
As  long  as  an  unfair  and  exclusive  international 
economic and political order persists, the Council must 
continue  to  take  a  stance  in  favour  of  a  democratic 
and equitable international order. As long as we have 
instances in which unilateral coercive measures prevail 
and rigid blockades are maintained — as is the case for 
Cuba, which has endured a blockade for more than 50 
years  now  —  the  Council  must  reject  those  measures 
and  call  for  them  to  end.  The  Council  must  ensure 
that  the  right  to  international  solidarity  is  urgently 
addressed,  with  a  view  to  overcoming  the  serious 
global challenges that are posed by economic, financial, 
energy, environmental and food crises. 
In  response  to  the  recommendation  the  Human 
Rights  Council  made  to  the  General  Assembly  in 
resolution  32/28,  my  delegation  has  submitted  a 
draft  resolution  entitled  “Declaration  on  the  Right  to 
Peace”.  The  underlying  idea  is  that  peace,  which  is 
already recognized as a fundamental condition for the 
enjoyment of all human rights, should also receive due 
recognition as the right of all persons, both individually 
and collectively, to contribute to efforts to achieve peace 
and enjoy an environment of harmony in which all their 
needs are met and their individual and collective rights 
are fully respected. 
to  promote 
Cuba  will  continue  working 
the 
rights  of  all  peoples  to  self-determination,  peace  and 
development  through  the  realization  of  the  right  to 
food, the establishment of a democratic and equitable 
international order, the fight against racism, xenophobia 
and all forms of discrimination and the realization of 
cultural rights and respect for diversity. Cuba reiterates 
its everlasting commitment to promoting and respecting 
human rights for all. 
12/29 
16-36139
04/11/2016 
A/71/PV.41
Mrs.  Al-Duwailah  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
An  important  agenda  item  is  under  discussion  today 
in  the  General  Assembly.  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
Human Rights Council for its report (A/71/53), which 
summarizes the work to promote human rights in the 
international community and its ongoing endeavour to 
entrench  and  defend  the  human  rights  principles.  We 
also  congratulate  the  States  elected  on  28  October  to 
membership  of  the  Council  for  the  period  2017-2019 
and wish them every success during their term. 
The  report  reviewed  several  issues  relating  to 
human  rights  and  their  protection,  including  the 
realization  of  fundamental  rights.  It  also  addressed 
the human rights situation in some States, focusing on 
their  role  in  international  institutions  and  the  efforts 
to  promote  all  aspects  of  cooperation  with  various 
countries  in  the  world.  Moreover,  it  addressed  issues 
of  the  utmost  importance  relating  to  trafficking  in 
persons and the rights of people with special needs, as 
well as the acceleration of efforts to eliminate all forms 
of intolerance and violence against women. We would 
stress  that  the  full  implementation  of  the  concept  of 
human rights is the responsibility of States and requires 
the concerted efforts of the international community. 
The challenges facing our world and the difficulties 
that  some  people  face  in  acquiring  the  most  basic 
means  of  subsistence,  such  as  housing,  food  and 
medicine,  make  it  incumbent  upon  the  international 
community  to  strive  to  do  more.  We  welcome  the 
adoption in September of the New York Declaration for 
Refugees and Migrants, which expressly acknowledges 
the  magnitude  of  the  suffering  of  populations  around 
the world as a result of tragic humanitarian crises. We 
also  welcome  all  international  efforts  to  promote  and 
protect  the  rights  of  displaced  persons,  including  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 
Today  marks  an  important  event,  which  is  the 
entry  into  force  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change.  All  such  measures  reflect  the  seriousness 
of  the  international  community  in  protecting  and 
promoting human rights. I would like to note that my 
Government,  guided  by  the  principles  of  the  Paris 
Agreement, has approved a bill on the establishment of 
a national human rights institution that will promote the 
protection of human rights and public freedoms, in line 
with  current  international  conventions.  Furthermore, 
it  has  established  national  mechanisms  to  promote 
human rights.
Certainly, 
rights 
the  concept  of  human 
is 
closely  linked  to  the  achievement  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  as  illustrated  by  the  fact  that 
the  progress  of  people  is  measured  by  the  degree  of 
their  commitment  to  human  rights.  The  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  also  urges  us  to  promote  human 
rights  and  respect  fundamental  freedoms.  A  great 
deal  of  humanitarian  assistance  is  provided  through 
non-governmental  and  governmental  institutions  and 
international  organizations,  including  the  Office  of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
(UNHCR),  which  believes  it  imperative  to  establish 
international  peace  and  security  in  order  to  promote 
respect  for  human  rights.  In  that  vein,  Kuwait  has 
hosted  three  international  conferences  to  support 
the  humanitarian  situation  in  Syria,  in  line  with  the 
UNHCR  report  and  resolution  28/20.  Kuwait  also 
participated  in  co-hosting  the  Supporting  Syria  and 
the Region Conference, held in London on 4 February, 
which further raised funds to fulfil the immediate and 
long-term requirements of those affected by the crisis 
in Syria. 
We feel pain and sorrow regarding the continuing 
acts of violence in Syria, which have been taking lives 
and  have  devastated  poverty.  My  delegation  stresses 
the importance of concerted urgent international action 
aimed at finding a political settlement to the crisis in 
Syria that will make it possible for the Syrian people 
to realize their aspirations to live their lives in freedom 
and dignity. 
In that respect, as we are discussing human rights, 
we must strongly condemn the oppressive policies and 
practices  of  Israel  in  violating  the  most  rudimentary 
human rights of the unarmed Palestinian people in their 
occupied  territories.  We  call  upon  the  international 
community to assume its responsibility to compel Israel 
to abide by the General Assembly resolution promoting 
international  legitimacy  and  cease  its  expansionist 
policies, respect the principles of international human 
rights  and  respect  its  obligations  under  the  Geneva 
Convention 1949 relative to the protection of civilians.
In  conclusion,  Kuwait  affirms  its  commitment  to 
support all international efforts to promote and protect 
human  rights.  We  must  seek  to  benefit  from  past 
experiences  in  order  to  achieve  our  aspirations  of  a 
world of peace and stability, where the preservation of 
human rights will be a linchpin and an inalienable right. 
16-36139
13/29
A/71/PV.41 
04/11/2016
Mr.  Lukyantsev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  International  cooperation  in  the  field  of 
human rights over the past years has been of increasing 
importance.  The  United  Nations  has  the  unique  and 
important  task  of  ensuring  the  conditions  for  a  truly 
equitable dialogue among States. That dialogue should 
allow  for  the  fullest  possible  realization  of  human 
rights in all countries of the world. The Human Rights 
Council plays a particularly crucial role in that work. 
In  that  connection,  allow  me  to  congratulate  the 
representatives of the States elected to the Council last 
week and to express the hope that they will contribute 
to  constructive  cooperation  aimed  at  promoting  and 
protecting  human  rights  as  enshrined  in  universal 
international instruments. 
We  must  note,  however,  that  the  agenda  of  the 
Council  has  become  a  tactical  tool  for  promoting  the 
interests  of  individual  States  and  groups.  Discussions 
are  increasingly  turning  into  the  airing  of  political 
grievances, patronizing attitudes and the defamation of 
States. Moreover, unjustified geographical imbalances 
with  respect  to  the  various  human  rights  situations 
being considered do not reflect true trends; rather, they 
are the result of politically motivated actions.
We  are  also  struck  by  certain  dubious  activities, 
including  the  promotion  of  supposedly  progressive 
reforms and initiatives that in practice translate into the 
erosion of the intergovernmental nature of the work of the 
United Nations and its human rights bodies, attributing 
subsidiary  bodies  to  functions  that  they  should  not 
perform.  We  regret  that  the  Council  is  becoming  a 
platform for a test-run for such controversial initiatives.
We  are  categorically  against  using  the  Council 
to  include  various  politically  charged  matters  on  the 
agenda  of  the  General  Assembly,  including  the  idea 
of  referring  human  rights  situations  to  the  Security 
Council  and  the  International  Criminal  Court.  We 
believe that United Nations bodies charged with human 
rights  mandates  should  not  interfere  in  the  purviews 
of other bodies of the United Nations, including on the 
issues of international security, development, counter-
terrorism  and  human  trafficking.  The  integration  of 
human rights issues into the activities of various other 
bodies of the United Nations should have its limits. It 
must not lead to a duplication of functions. That applies, 
above all, to the Glion Human Rights Dialogue, which 
is promoted by the Human Rights Council. 
We  would  like  to  express  concern  about  the  fact 
that the agenda of the Human Rights Council deals with 
matters that are not within its mandate and jurisdiction, 
including the responsibility to protect the international 
legal status of territories and their related qualifications. 
We are alarmed by the relentless attempts of individual 
States  that,  instead  of  seeking  a  unifying  agenda, 
bring  to  the  consideration  of  the  Council  deliberately 
confrontational  topics.  The  latest  example  was  the 
resolution of the Council on issues of sexual orientation 
and  gender  identity  and  the  establishment  of  the  post 
of  independent  expert  on  the  matter.  That  does  not 
improve the human rights situation, but instead further 
divides members of the Council.
We  are  worried  that,  given  the  expansion  of 
the  special  procedures  system  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  the  practice  of  exceeding  mandates  and 
the  duplication  of  functions  will  become  features  of 
many  of  those  mechanisms.  In  our  view,  the  primary 
task  of  the  Council  should  be  to  restore  the  mutually 
respectful nature of intergovernmental dialogue. That 
is based on the fact that the fundamental principle of 
the  Council’s  work  should  be  equitable  cooperation 
based on compliance with the principle of the sovereign 
equality of States.
We  believe  that  the  only  objective  mechanism 
for  monitoring  compliance  with  human  rights  is  the 
Universal  Periodic  Review.  We  believe  that  in  order 
to  increase  the  effectiveness  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council’s work, the focus should be on the provision of 
technical assistance to States that express their consent.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  note  that  it  is 
important for the Human Rights Council not to erode 
the  trust  bestowed  upon  it  by  the  General  Assembly 
in  2006.  The  worrisome  trends  in  the  work  of  the 
Council  I  just  mentioned  could  bring  the  Council 
to  a  status  resembling  that  of  the  Commission  on 
Human Rights as it stood in the end of the 1990s and 
the  beginning  of  the  2000s.  That  would  once  again 
discredit the work of the United Nations in promoting 
and defending human rights.
Ms. Kumar (India): We welcome the President of the 
Human Rights Council, Ambassador Choi Kyong-lim, 
and we thank him for his comprehensive presentation.
The year 2016 marks the tenth anniversary of the 
Human  Rights  Council.  Anniversaries  provide  an 
opportune  moment  for  assessment  and  introspection. 
We  feel  that  it  is  worth  analyzing  the  progress  that 
14/29 
16-36139
04/11/2016 
A/71/PV.41
the Council has made towards accomplishing its dual 
mandate  of  promoting  and  protecting  human  rights, 
and to reflect on its achievements and challenges and 
prescribe change where necessary, with the objective of 
shaping a stronger and more effective Council.
to  avoid 
the  shortcomings  of 
The  Human  Rights  Council  evolved  from  the 
political  will 
the 
Commission  on  Human  Rights.  While  celebrating 
the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  Council,  we  must  also 
remain  mindful  of  the  reasons  for  its  establishment 
and  avoid  repeating  the  mistakes  of  the  past.  In  that 
context,  we  must  mention  that  intrusive  monitoring 
and finger-pointing while dealing with specific human 
rights situations in various countries is inimical to the 
objectives  of  the  Council.  India  believes  in  an  open, 
inclusive  approach  based  on  dialogue,  consultation 
and cooperation.
As a signatory to both of the principal Covenants on 
human rights and the major human rights instruments, 
India  has  consistently  promoted  human  rights.  India 
made  important  contributions  to  the  drafting  the 
Universal  Declaration  on  Human  Rights,  especially 
highlighting the need to reflect gender equality.
India’s engagement with the Human Rights Council 
since  its  inception  has  been  primarily  guided  by  the 
significance that it attaches to the mechanisms of the 
United  Nations  that  serve  to  frame  the  international 
discourse  on  human  rights.  It  has  been  our  constant 
endeavour to constructively engage with the processes 
of those bodies. In the relatively short span of 10 years, 
the  Council  has  encountered  enormous  challenges  on 
a  vast  array  of  issues  relating  to  migrants,  refugees, 
terrorism, 
change, 
development and others. Over the years, the Council has 
evolved into a forum for voluntary participation and the 
sharing of national experiences and best practices in the 
protection and promotion of human rights. We strongly 
believe that, in order to ensure its continued relevance 
and  further  success,  the  Council  must  continue  to 
strengthen its adherence to the fundamental principles 
of universality, transparency, impartiality, objectivity, 
non-selectivity and constructive international dialogue, 
while seeking to realize human rights for all.
extremism, 
violent 
climate 
It  is  among  the  Council’s  core  responsibilities  to 
ensure  that  the  indivisibility,  interrelatedness  and 
interdependence of all human rights, including the right 
to development, are treated in a fair and equal manner. 
The  right  to  development  is  an  inalienable  human 
right central to the purposes and mission of the United 
Nations. However, a caveat in that regard is in order: the 
notion of the universality of rights does not imply the 
uniformity of values and systems. For a more meaningful 
and  productive  discharge  of  its  responsibilities,  the 
Council would do well to bear in mind the significance 
of national and regional particularities and the various 
historical,  cultural  and  religious  backgrounds  in  its 
dialogue with its Member States.
that 
India  believes 
the  Council’s  Universal 
Periodic  Review  mechanism  provides  a  forum  for 
non-politicized, non-selective and non-confrontational 
discussion  among  Member  States.  The  relevance  of 
those  characteristics  continues  to  remain  strong  as 
we approach the conclusion of the second cycle of the 
review  mechanism.  There  are  suggestions  emanating 
from some quarters that the process of that mechanism 
needs to be reviewed in order to make it more effective. 
We  reiterate  that  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
mechanism  should  not  be  tinkered  with,  because 
any  such  attempt  carries  the  potential  of  diluting  the 
universal support that it currently enjoys. The process 
is less than 10 years old, and it is therefore too early to 
pronounce  on  its  ultimate  effectiveness  or  to  identify 
specific needs to reform it.
We  would  also  like  to  mention  that  the  success 
of  dialogues  with  special  procedures  hinges  on  their 
continued independence and impartiality and on their 
carrying  out  their  entrusted  tasks  with  responsibility 
and sensitivity in accordance with their mandates. The 
comments  and  recommendations  by  mandate-holders 
should also conform to their respective mandates. The 
outcomes of their efforts need to be constructive and not 
driven by ideological and ulterior motives. That would 
help the Governments concerned to fully acknowledge 
their  reports  and  take  the  requisite  follow-up  actions. 
It  would  be  useful  for  mandate-holders  and  Member 
States  if  misguided  attempts  at  self-glorification  and 
publicity 
through  unfounded  generalizations  were 
avoided, including the issuance of joint press releases 
on issues beyond their mandates.
It is our long-held belief that human rights issues 
cannot be approached in isolation, while ignoring the 
complex  and  intricate  relationship  between  human 
rights,  development,  democracy  and 
international 
cooperation.  The  challenges  of  poverty  eradication, 
armed  conflict,  terrorism,  democracy  deficit  and 
impunity continue to deprive millions of people from 
the full enjoyment of their human rights. Democracy, 
16-36139
15/29
A/71/PV.41 
04/11/2016
good governance, the rule of law and access to justice 
and  the  engagement  of  civil  society  are  essential  for 
safeguarding fundamental freedoms and for promoting 
and protecting human rights for all.
In conclusion, India remains committed to making 
the  Human  Rights  Council  a  strong,  effective  and 
efficient  body  capable  of  promoting  and  protecting 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  for  all  in  a 
transparent, cooperative and non-selective manner.
Ms. Naeem (Maldives): At the outset, my delegation 
would like to thank His Excellency Ambassador Choi 
Kyonglim, Permanent Representative of the Republic of 
Korea to the United Nations Office in Geneva, for his 
admirable work as the President of the Human Rights 
Council and for presenting the Council’s annual report 
(A/71/53) to the General Assembly.
The year 2016 marks an important milestone in the 
history of the Human Rights Council. As we celebrate 
the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  Council,  we  would  like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  commend  the  Council  for 
its  achievements  and  to  reaffirm  our  support  for  the 
Council. Since its inception, in 2006, the Council has 
made  substantive  contributions  to  the  improvement 
of  the  world’s  human  rights  situation.  Not  only  has 
it  proved  to  be  an  effective  institution  in  protecting 
human  rights  across  the  world,  it  has  also  played  a 
significant role in promoting constructive international 
dialogue  and  improving  international  human  rights 
standards  and  their  implementation.  The  Maldives  is 
proud to have been actively engaged in the process as 
a member of the Council for six out of its 10 years. At 
a  time  when  human  rights  violations  and  abuses  are 
rapidly increasing the world over, and when extremism 
and terrorism pose ever-increasing threats to the global 
community  as  a  whole,  the  Maldives  welcomes  the 
initiatives undertaken by the Council in addressing the 
many human rights violations that plague our world.
One of the most important contributions made by 
the Human Rights Council to the world’s human rights 
situation is the Universal Periodic Review process. In 
establishing a unique mechanism in which the human 
rights  of  all  countries  are  assessed  and  measured  on 
an equal footing and on an equal basis, the Universal 
Periodic  Review  process  has  come  to  be  widely 
recognized  as  one  of  the  biggest  achievements  of  the 
Council.  We  are  pleased  to  note  that  the  Maldives 
completed  its  second  review  under  the  Universal 
Periodic  review  process  this  year.  We  believe  that 
the  review  process  is  of  crucial  importance,  and  we 
reiterate  our  support  for  efforts  to  further  strengthen 
the process.
Another  noteworthy  development  is  the  special 
procedures mechanism of the Human Rights Council. 
The special procedures system, through the reports of 
the  special  procedures  mandate-holders,  provides  an 
effective  basis  for  dialogue  and  debate,  both  among 
States  members  of  the  Council  and  between  States 
Members of the United Nations and the Council.
We  welcome  the  Human  Rights  Council’s  most 
recent special session, on the situation of human rights 
in  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  and  the  recent  situation 
in Aleppo and the attention given by the Council to the 
grave human rights violations being committed against 
the  people  of  Aleppo.  The  Maldives  calls  upon  the 
Council to step up its efforts to that end and to adopt 
a  more  proactive  role  in  addressing  the  grave  human 
rights  violations  committed  against  the  women,  men 
and children of Aleppo.
Similarly,  while  the  Council  has  continued  with 
its  traditional  set  of  resolutions  on  the  human  rights 
violations  and  atrocities  committed  by  Israel  against 
the  Palestinian  people,  the  Maldives  calls  upon  the 
Council to take strong and effective measures to relieve 
the plight of the people of Palestine.
This  year  is  also  a  particularly  significant  year 
for  the  Maldives  as  we  conclude  our  second  term 
in  the  Human  Rights  Council.  We  are  proud  of  the 
contributions  that  we  have  made  to  the  work  of  the 
Council.  We  especially  recall  our  efforts  to  integrate 
climate  change  into  the  Council’s  agenda  through 
Council  resolution  71/23.  Small  island  developing 
States (SIDS) such as the Maldives are at the forefront 
of feeling the impacts of climate change. The Maldives 
has  long  advocated  that  the  issue  of  climate  change 
and its impacts on populations must be viewed through 
a  human  rights  lens.  We  are  pleased  to  note  that,  at 
its  thirty-second  session,  the  Council  continued  to 
recognize  the  importance  of  addressing  the  adverse 
consequences of climate change on the full and effective 
enjoyment of human rights.
The  increased  engagement  with  the  Voluntary 
Technical Assistance Trust Fund to Support Participation 
of  Least  Developed  Countries  and  SIDS  in  the  work 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  is  another  important 
development  that  we  are  proud  to  see  materialize.  In 
addition to actively participating in setting up the Trust 
16/29 
16-36139
04/11/2016 
A/71/PV.41
Fund,  we  were  able  to  secure  the  participation  of  all 
SIDS not represented in Geneva in the Council session 
held  there  in  June  this  year,  which  saw  the  universal 
participation of all SIDS for the first time.
Despite  our  limitations  and  our  status  as  a  small 
island  developing  State,  the  Maldives  has  maintained 
a  strong  presence  on  the  Human  Rights  Council. 
We  are  proud  to  have  given  a  voice  to  the  smallest 
members  of  the  international  community,  and  we 
will continue lending our voice for the promotion and 
protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms 
in the coming years. My delegation is pleased to note 
that  the  Government  of  the  Maldives  has  announced 
its  candidacy  for  membership  in  the  Human  Rights 
Council for the term 2018-2020. The Maldives remains 
steadfast in its efforts to continue keeping development 
and  the  empowerment  of  all  people  central  to  the 
Council’s  agenda.  Human  rights  remain  the  heart  of 
our developmental efforts, especially those of the most 
vulnerable — the disabled, women and children.
While  the  Council  has  achieved  considerable 
success during its short existence, it can continue to live 
up to its mandate only if it is guided by the principles 
upon  which  it  was  founded,  namely,  universality, 
impartiality,  objectivity,  constructive 
international 
dialogue and cooperation. It is our hope that the next 
decade  will  see  the  Council  become  even  stronger, 
more efficient and more effective.
I  conclude  by  reaffirming  our  continued  support 
for the Human Rights Council and its mechanisms. Let 
me also take this opportunity to reaffirm our country’s 
dedication  to  working  with  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and to 
cooperating with other Member States in the promotion 
and protection of human rights globally.
Mr.  Zehnder  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 
Switzerland wishes to thank the President of the Human 
Rights  Council  for  introducing  the  Council’s  report 
(A/71/53). We express our gratitude and congratulations 
for  his  commitment  during  his  presidency  of  the 
Council over the past year. He bore particularly great 
responsibility during this tenth anniversary year of the 
Human Rights Council.
That occasion allowed priority courses of action to 
be identified, which must now be implemented in order 
to strengthen the pillar of human rights within the United 
Nations  as  a  whole  and  to  counteract  the  deliberate 
efforts to undermine human rights institutions that have 
regularly been witnessed. In that context, Switzerland 
would like to reaffirm its position concerning the draft 
resolution on the report of the Human Rights Council 
presented in the Third Committee (A/C.3/71/L.46). That 
draft  resolution  is  not  necessary.  The  Human  Rights 
Council is a subsidiary organ of the General Assembly, 
and not one of its Committees. We are concerned by the 
fact that once again a draft resolution on the report of the 
Human Rights Council seeks to isolate a single Council 
resolution by calling for its consideration to be deferred. 
The  Council  resolution  in  question  seeks  to  create 
the  mandate  of  the  independent  expert  on  protection 
against  violence  and  discrimination  based  on  sexual 
orientation and gender identity. Switzerland reiterates 
its  support  for  the  establishment  of  that  mandate  and 
calls upon all States to respect the independence of the 
Human Rights Council.
The  10  years  of  the  Human  Rights  Council’s 
existence have seen an increase in the importance of civil-
society participation in the work of the United Nations, 
particularly  in  monitoring  the  implementation  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council’s  decisions,  recommendations 
and  mechanisms.  Ensuring  greater 
inclusion  and 
protection  for  civil  society  is  therefore  an  investment 
in enhancing the impact, efficiency and credibility of 
the  Council.  In  that  regard,  Switzerland  is  concerned 
about  numerous  cases  of  intimidation  and  reprisals 
against members of civil society as they exercise their 
fundamental rights by providing first-hand information 
to  representatives  of  United  Nations  mechanisms. 
Switzerland  is  grateful  for  the  commitment  to  the 
follow-up  to  such  cases  and  urges  the  international 
community to take further action to protect those who 
defend  human  rights,  especially  those  who  cooperate 
with the Council and its mechanisms.
Furthermore,  Switzerland  strongly  believes  that 
the  relationship  between  human  rights  and  peace  and 
security  is  worthy  of  special  attention,  not  least  in 
view  of  its  potential  in  terms  of  conflict  prevention. 
The appeal of 13 June “Put Human Rights at the Heart 
of  Conflict  Prevention”,  launched  by  Switzerland  and 
other  Member  States,  calls  for  an  enhanced  exchange 
of  information  on  conflict  prevention  between  the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  the  Security  Council. 
Switzerland calls upon all Member States to join the 70 
States that already support the appeal and to commit to 
its implementation.
While  the  increase  in  the  Council’s  workload 
confirms  the  relevance  of  its  mandate,  Switzerland 
16-36139
17/29
A/71/PV.41 
04/11/2016
does not believe that that workload is sustainable in the 
medium term. It is crucial that consideration continue 
on  how  to  optimize  working  methods  and  implement 
the relevant proposals already on the table. At the same 
time, it is vital to improve the working atmosphere in 
the  Human  Rights  Council.  My  delegation  points  in 
particular to the lack of transparency in an increasing 
number  of  negotiations  and  resolutions,  the  growing 
and combined use of written and oral amendments and 
requests to vote on concerns that were never expressed 
during  informal  negotiations.  All  of  that  is  fostering 
a  mood  of  confrontation.  Switzerland  calls  upon  all 
States to work constructively on Council matters so as 
to enhance its credibility and efficiency.
(Argentina) 
(spoke 
Mr.  García  Moritán 
in 
Spanish): Argentina wishes to express its gratitude to 
Ambassador  Choi  Kyonglim,  President  of  the  Human 
Rights Council, for his presence today in the General 
Assembly  and  welcomes  the  report  (A/71/53)  on  the 
activities of the Council over the past year.
First  of  all,  we  would  like  to  point  out  that  we 
believe that it is relevant to maintain close coordination 
between  New  York  and  Geneva  on  the  human  rights 
agenda.  We  are  therefore  very  grateful  for  this 
opportunity  to  express  our  views  on  the  recent  work 
of  the  Council.  Argentina  has  always  been,  and  will 
continue to be, a strong advocate for the independence, 
work and achievements of the Human Rights Council in 
promoting, respecting and protecting human rights. We 
firmly believe that the Council should be on an equal 
footing with the principal organs of the United Nations. 
For Argentina, the promotion and protection of human 
rights  is  a  State  policy  that  reflects  the  main  desires 
and  concerns  of  Argentine  society.  The  defence  and 
promotion of human rights is a central element of our 
country’s foreign policy.
Argentina would also like to take this opportunity 
to  highlight  the  role  of  the  Council  in  ensuring  that 
human rights are universally prioritized. The Council’s 
establishment  has  made  it  possible  to  strengthen 
dialogue  and  various  channels  of  cooperation  among 
States  in  order  to  promote  universal  respect  for  the 
human rights and fundamental freedoms of all people, 
which  will  result  in  their  further  contribution  to 
international development, peace and security. In that 
regard,  the  international  community  should  continue 
to work together to strengthen the role of the Council 
in peace restoration and post-conflict and transitional 
justice  processes.  Initiatives  taken  to  establish  or 
refine national plans and regional strategies should be 
complemented  and  developed  in  cooperation  with  the 
United Nations system.
We would particularly like to express our concern 
about recent actions designed to disregard the Council’s 
mandate or to undermine its legitimacy as the main body 
within the United Nations system for the promotion and 
protection  of  human  rights.  We  are  deeply  concerned 
that the legal basis that enabled the Council to create 
the  mandate  of  the  independent  expert  on  protection 
against  violence  and  discrimination  based  on  sexual 
orientation and gender identity — who was appointed at 
the latest session of the Council — is being questioned, 
when it was legally established by resolution 32/2 of the 
Human Rights Council.
Without  going  into  unnecessary  detail  on  the 
legitimacy of the fight against any form of violence or 
discrimination  and  in  accordance  with  the  provisions 
of  the  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights,  we 
firmly  believe  that  it  is  unacceptable  to  attempt  to 
disregard  a  special  mandate  legally  established  by 
the  Council  through  a  draft  resolution  of  the  Third 
Committee.  We  are  convinced  that  the  scale,  gravity 
and generalized nature of violence and discrimination 
against individuals based on their actual or perceived 
sexual orientation or gender identity requires a specific 
response from the international community.
Among  the  other  notable  actions  of  the  Council 
are  the  initiative  presented  together  with  Brazil  for 
the renewal of the mandate of the independent expert 
on  the  rights  of  older  persons  and  the  resolution 
presented  with  Switzerland  and  Morocco  on  human 
rights  and  transitional  justice.  We  believe  that  it  is 
relevant  to  explore  the  contribution  of  transitional 
justice to the prevention of grave violations and abuses 
of human rights and serious violations of international 
humanitarian  law,  including  genocide,  war  crimes, 
ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity.
Without  respect  for  the  existing  institutions  and 
mandates  of  United  Nations  bodies,  we  will  find  it 
incredibly  difficult  to  meet  the  expectations  of  our 
peoples  in  ensuring  the  defence  and  protection  of 
human  rights.  That  is  why  all  Member  States  must 
make  the  commitment  to  respect  the  independence 
and  integrity  of  the  mandate  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council in accordance with resolution 60/251 and other 
relevant resolutions.
18/29 
16-36139
04/11/2016 
A/71/PV.41
In  conclusion,  we  welcome  the  countries  recently 
elected  to  the  Council  and  reiterate  our  unyielding 
commitment  to  uphold  the  independence  and  work  of 
the Human Rights Council.
Ms.  Bogyay  (Hungary):  We  would  like  to  thank 
the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  for 
presenting the Council’s annual report (A/71/53) to the 
General Assembly.
Hungary aligns itself with the statement delivered 
on behalf of the European Union.
The  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
10 years ago, was a major achievement that put human 
rights  at  the  centre  of  the  United  Nations  system.  By 
establishing the Council, Member States acknowledged 
that  there  was  no  peace,  security  or  development 
without  respect  for,  and  the  protection  of,  human 
rights. Hungary strongly believes that the Council and 
its Universal Periodic Review mechanism represent the 
best universal framework for achieving that goal. Over 
the past 10 years, the Human Rights Council has proved 
to be a key player and a central forum in the universal 
promotion and protection of human rights. Hungary has 
been an active player in the Council’s work since it was 
established. Hungary was a member of the Council from 
2009 to 2012 and served as one of its Vice-Presidents in 
2012. We look forward to serving on the Council again 
and  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  all 
Member States for their strong support for our election.
Over  the  past  decade,  we  have  led  initiatives  in 
our  national  capacity  on  a  number  of  thematic  issues 
within the Council, including on the independence of 
the  judiciary  and  the  prevention  of  reprisals  against 
individuals cooperating with the United Nations. In that 
regard, we wish to thank the President of the Council 
for his efforts to highlight the importance of addressing 
reprisals  against  individuals  cooperating  with  the 
Council. Hungary also plays an active role in facilitating 
the exchange of views and in disseminating knowledge 
about  the  Council  and  its  review  mechanism.  To  that 
end,  the  Ministry  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of 
Hungary continues to host the annual Budapest Human 
Rights  Forum,  which  was  launched  in  2008.  Those 
conferences  offer  an  opportunity  to  exchange  views 
among  representatives  of  Governments,  international 
organizations, civil society and academia.
major human rights issues, including the prevention of 
mass  atrocities  through  the  responsibility  to  protect. 
The implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development is also at the core of the upcoming Forum. 
As  a  member  of  the  Council,  Hungary  will,  while 
being  firm  in  supporting  its  principles,  be  open  and 
attentive  to  all  views  and  opinions  represented  in  the 
Council and will work with its partners to build bridges 
and understanding.
We are committed to fostering cooperation among 
members of the Council by playing the role of facilitator 
among  countries  with  different  cultural,  social  and 
economic  backgrounds.  Consensus-building  on  issues 
such  as  gender  equality,  women’s  empowerment, 
children’s  rights,  minority  rights,  the  fight  against 
all  kinds  of  discrimination  and  the  protection  of 
vulnerable groups will be of the utmost importance in 
the  coming  period,  in  particular  in  the  context  of  the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
Furthermore,  we  will  continue  to  be  a  proactive 
player in the fight against any form of sexual exploitation 
and  the  various  forms  of  modern-day  slavery,  which, 
according to recent estimates, affect 45 million women, 
men  and  children  worldwide.  Hungary  believes  that 
Member  States  should  assume  political  leadership 
aimed at eradicating that scourge, but we also believe 
that  cooperation  and  collaboration  within  the  United 
Nations system are very important.
In conclusion, I would like to reaffirm Hungary’s 
deep commitment to the strengthening of international 
human rights mechanisms, and in particular the work 
and functioning of the Human Rights Council.
Ms. Shilo (Israel): Special agenda items, politicized 
debates,  biased  resolutions,  preposterous  reports, 
discriminatory  conduct  and  unfounded  accusations 
characterize the attitude of the Human Rights Council 
towards Israel. Although the Council is mandated to be 
unbiased,  transparent  and  apolitical,  its  seven  special 
sessions, 66 resolutions, a Special Rapporteur with an 
unlimited  mandate  and  a  specific  agenda  item,  all  of 
which target Israel, clearly prove otherwise. We believe 
that, instead of stomping in the political swamp, as it 
has  been  doing  for  so  long  with  regard  to  Israel,  it  is 
crucial that the Human Rights Council finally focus on 
its mandate to protect human rights.
The next Budapest Human Rights Forum will take 
place on 18 and 19 November and will focus on the tenth 
anniversary  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  other 
As  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human Rights recently said, our world today is suffering 
from countless atrocities, terrible humanitarian crises 
16-36139
19/29
A/71/PV.41 
04/11/2016
and increased xenophobia, racism and prejudice, which 
are  greater  than  any  that  we  have  experienced  since 
the  end  of  the  Second  World  War.  The  international 
community  and  the  United  Nations  are  faced  with 
an  inexhaustible  list  of  desperate  calls  for  urgent 
assistance. The situation in Syria, which is entering its 
sixth year, continues along its devastating course, while 
numerous people around the world are falling prey to 
crimes  such  as  extermination,  murder,  enslavement, 
torture,  rape  and  starvation  —  crimes  that  shock  the 
conscience of humankind.
A revision of the resources allocated to deal with 
the Human Rights Council’s biased agenda item 7 will 
definitely allow the Council to better address the real 
and urgent concerns that the international community 
should  deal  with.  Israel  is  a  strong  democracy  in 
the  Middle  East,  and,  while  it  faces  many  security 
challenges, it is fully committed to respect all human 
rights,  including  those  of  its  own  citizens.  Israel  will 
continue to cooperate with those who really care about 
human  rights  and  to  firmly  object  to  any  attempt  to 
abuse those rights for political ends.
Ms.  García  Gutiérrez  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): We thank the President of the Human Rights 
Council  for  his  briefing,  and  we  welcome  the  report 
(A/71/53) on the vital work that body carries out. Costa 
Rica  commends  the  continued  strengthening  of  the 
Council and the implementation of its mandates.
This  year  has  been  particularly  important  for  the 
human rights system. Last month we commemorated the 
fiftieth anniversary of the adoption of the International 
Covenants on Human Rights. True to its tradition, Costa 
Rica was the first country to ratify both Covenants, on 
29 November 1968. As a matter of principle, our country 
will  always  seek  the  promotion  and  protection  of  all 
human rights without distinction, in all circumstances 
and places. We also welcome the commemoration of the 
tenth  anniversary  of  the  establishment  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  are  pleased  by  its  institutional 
consolidation  as  the  body  responsible  for  promoting 
universal respect for the protection of all human rights 
and fundamental freedoms for all individuals, without 
distinction, in a just and equitable manner and guided 
by  the  principles  of  impartiality,  objectivity  and 
non-selectivity.
We appreciate the work performed by the Council 
the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
in  consolidating 
mechanism,  which  treats  all  States  equally  when 
reviewing  their  human  rights  situations  on  the  basis 
of  the  principles  of  cooperation  and  constructive 
international  dialogue.  We  welcome  the  broadening 
of  the  Council’s  sphere  of  action,  which  has  been 
made possible by its special procedures. We therefore 
see  fit  to  reiterate  our  firm  support  for  the  work 
and  independence  of  the  Council.  Nevertheless,  we 
must  also  express  deep  concern  over  certain  current 
practices that could undermine its institutionality and 
its legitimacy. Practices such as questioning the legal 
basis  that  entitles  the  Council  to  establish  a  mandate 
are unacceptable. The Human Rights Council must be 
recognized as the primary body of the United Nations 
for the promotion and protection of human rights and, 
as  such,  its  institutionality  and  independence  must 
be preserved.
We consider all efforts aimed at strengthening the 
Council and the human rights system to be relevant and 
indispensable, and have therefore welcomed the review 
processes promoted by the President to review the work 
and strengthening of the Council. Similarly, and with 
the goal of bolstering the human rights system, we must 
ensure the institutionality of the Office of the United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  and 
guarantee it full independence and the ability to carry 
out its mandate. Costa Rica, as a country historically 
committed to human rights and as one of the proponents 
of  the  establishment  of  that  Office,  believes  that  the 
robustness  of  the  Office’s  mandate  derives  from  its 
total  and  complete  independence.  In  order  for  that  to 
be possible, and pursuant to our commitment to human 
rights,  we  urge  that  the  necessary  resources  from  the 
regular  United  Nations  budget  be  allocated  to  the 
Office of the High Commissioner so that it can have the 
necessary tools to fully carry out its mandate.
The  growth  of 
the  human  rights  protection 
system  is  evidence  of  its  importance  in  the  United 
Nations architecture but at the same time has revealed 
challenges that we need to overcome. We are convinced 
that  the  system  can  be  improved.  A  good  example  of 
that  is  the  strengthening  of  the  treaty  body  system, 
which culminated in the adoption of resolution 68/268, 
in April 2014. We are grateful to the Office of the High 
Commissioner for recently issuing its first report on the 
implementation of the resolution, which reaffirms the 
growing need to support the organs of the system with 
a view to ensuring their sustainability.
The Human Rights Council must be strengthened. 
But we must also reflect on ways to enhance the impact 
20/29 
16-36139
04/11/2016 
A/71/PV.41
of its work, to avoid the dispersal of effort and to act in 
the  face  of  grave  and  systematic  violations  of  human 
rights  all  around  the  world,  especially  in  conflict 
situations.  We  are  concerned  over  the  increasing 
violence  on  the  planet,  which  has  directly  impacted 
civilians  and  has  resulted  in  millions  of  displaced 
persons  and  refugees  —  men,  women  and  children. 
Today more than ever, women, girls, boys, persons with 
disabilities, the sexually diverse population, minorities 
and all who belong to vulnerable groups or groups in 
precarious circumstances need greater protection. It is 
a  legal  and  ethical  imperative  to  protect  them  and  all 
of humankind.
That  is  why  we  want  a  Council  that  will  give 
equal  weight  to  inter-State  and  intra-State  inequities, 
as well as to the grave consequences of discrimination 
and  social  injustice.  Similarly,  we  want  a  Council 
that will be more visible and have a greater impact on 
the  ground  —  which  implies  mandates  that  are  more 
specific,  better  communication  with  the  rest  of  the 
United  Nations  system  and  greater  efforts  to  respond 
to emergency situations in a timely manner, including 
those the High Commissioner of Human Rights and the 
special procedures refer to the Council. In that regard, 
we  reiterate  our  full  commitment  to  strengthening 
the  Human  Rights  Council,  its  institutionality  and 
its independence.
Ms. Stener (Norway): Let me begin by thanking the 
President of the Human Rights Council for introducing 
the Council’s report (A/71/53).
  The  Human  Rights  Council  is  responsible  for 
promoting  universal  respect  for  the  protection  of  all 
human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without 
distinction of any kind and in a fair and equal manner. 
Norway therefore believes that when the Council adopts 
a  resolution,  the  General  Assembly  has  no  role  in 
reopening or overturning those decisions, and certainly 
not  the  Third  Committee.  That  undermines  the  very 
role and independent mandate that we, as States, have 
given the Human Rights Council. We call on all States 
to  respect  all  of  the  Council’s  decisions.  Needless  to 
say,  that  call  also  covers  decisions  that  specifically 
establish special mandate-holders.
  We  have  committed  ourselves  to  ensuring  that 
all  people  are  entitled  to  and  granted  the  same  set 
of  rights,  irrespective  of  gender,  race,  religious  and 
political background or, indeed, sexual orientation and 
gender  identity.  Those  rights  exist  already  through, 
inter  alia,  the  International  Covenants  on  Civil  and 
Political Rights and on Economic, Social and Cultural 
Rights,  and  a  number  of  human  rights  conventions. 
Human  rights  are  also  at  the  very  heart  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  underpinning 
the Sustainable Development Goals and our ambitious 
plan to leave no one behind. It is a call not only to end 
poverty but also to tackle inequality and discrimination. 
There  is  no  shortage  of  rights  to  be  implemented;  it 
is  the  implementation  itself  that  is  the  problem.  The 
special mandate-holders established by the Council are 
crucial to the implementation of the commitment that 
we  have  made.  Their  work  should  not  be  impeded,  it 
should be supported.
Norway  applauds  resolution  32/2  of  the  Council, 
recognizing the need to protect persons from the lesbian, 
gay,  bisexual,  transgender  and  intersex  community 
from discrimination or violence on the basis of sexual 
orientation  and  gender  identity.  We  strongly  support 
the landmark decision to appoint an independent expert 
on that topic. 
Norway is therefore disappointed and troubled by 
the decision to once again put forward a draft resolution 
in  the  Third  Committee  that  is  aimed  at  reopening 
discusssion of the Council’s report. We strongly oppose 
the attempt to defer the decision on the establishment 
of  the  independent  expert  on  the  protection  against 
violence and discrimination based on sexual orientation 
and  gender  identity.  That  attempted  deferral  has  no 
legal  basis.  No  formal  objection  was  raised  on  the 
appointment  of  the  mandate-holder.  The  appointment 
rigorously  respected  all  the  procedural  rules  of  the 
Council. Norway is dismayed by the blatant disregard 
for the fact that the decision effectively undermines the 
mandate  and  the  credibility  of  the  Council  and  sets  a 
very  dangerous  precedent.  We  call  upon  all  Member 
States to respect and safeguard the independence of the 
Council.
Mr. Morales López (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): 
We  would  like  to  express  our  gratitude  for  the  report 
(A/71/53)  presented  this  morning  by  the  President  of 
the Human Rights Council.
Today we have an opportunity, as we did in June 
in  Geneva,  to  commemorate  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
Human  Rights  Council.  I  would  like  to  highlight  the 
positive  impact  and  transformative  actions  that  the 
Council has taken. It has had an impact on the lives of 
millions  of  people  around  the  world.  The  resolutions, 
16-36139
21/29
A/71/PV.41 
04/11/2016
decisions and mechanisms adopted by the Council, as 
described  in  the  report  on  the  twenty-fourth  special 
session and the thirty-first and thirty-second sessions, 
give  an  account  of  the  standing  and  cross-cutting 
nature  of  human  rights  in  the  United  Nations  system 
and the international community. While we recognize 
that contribution, we also believe that we must continue 
to work to streamline the number of resolutions to be 
adopted and the items to be considered. The progress 
that could be made in that regard would help to improve 
the  follow-up  and  implementation  of  human  rights 
recommendation. It would also enable more time to be 
allocated to each agenda item and allow for better use 
of  our  capacities  at  the  national  level  and  within  the 
United  Nations  itself.  Among  the  actions  which  lend 
themselves to a joint effort, my delegation would like to 
highlight the activities that make up the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, in which we committed 
to leaving no one behind.
Colombia is a firm supporter of the independence, 
work and achievements of the Human Rights Council 
in promoting, respecting and protecting human rights. 
As is the case with any multilateral forum, controversy 
is an inherent part of the dialogue within the Council. 
We  should  not  fear  the  differences  of  opinion  that 
occur in that regard; rather, they should be seen as an 
opportunity. Critical and constructive debate is positive 
in that it allows us to become aware of different points 
of view, enriches our work and enables us make gradual 
progress towards agreement and consensus on the basis 
of the shared principle of respect for and promotion of 
human  rights  for  all  without  exception.  On  this  tenth 
anniversary  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  we  call 
on  States  to  avoid  polarization,  continue  deepening 
dialogue  and  cooperation  and  redouble  efforts  and 
strengthen  the  Council  in  order  to  move  forward  in 
defending,  protecting  and  promoting  human  rights 
for all.
Ms. Cantada (Philippines): The Philippines thanks 
the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  his 
briefing as well as for his personal contributions to the 
work of the Council. We welcome the report (A/71/53) 
on the work of the Council.
At the outset, allow me to congratulate the newly 
elected  and  re-elected  members  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council.  As  a  current  member  of  the  Council,  let 
me  affirm  that  the  Philippines  remains  committed 
to  actively  participating  in  its  work  in  a  spirit  of 
constructive  engagement  and  cooperation  and  with 
the  aim  of  upholding 
human rights.
international  standards  of 
The Philippines takes note of the newly appointed 
special procedures mandate-holders. Fully recognizing 
the  growing  complexity  and  breadth  of  human  rights 
issues  in  today’s  world,  we  look  forward  to  the 
expertise  and  renewed  vigor  that  special  procedures 
mandate-holders will bring to the global human rights 
conversation. Our delegation recognizes the important 
role  that  special  procedures  play  in  the  protection 
and  promotion  of  human  rights.  Nonetheless,  our 
delegation  continues  to  stress  that  the  performance 
of  their  mandates  must  always  be  in  accordance  with 
resolution 60/251, which recognizes that the promotion 
and protection of human rights should be based on the 
principles of cooperation and genuine dialogue aimed at 
strengthening the capacity of Member States to comply 
with their human rights obligations.
The  Philippines  strongly  supports  the  Universal 
Periodic  Review  (UPR)  mechanism  of  the  Human 
Rights Council. We firmly believe that the mechanism 
is a very useful tool in upholding and promoting human 
rights around the world, as it allows the Governments 
concerned  and  the  members  of  the  international 
community  to  constructively  engage  with  each  other 
with a view to improving the human rights situation in 
line with national priorities and international obligations 
and commitments. However, the UPR process should not 
be the be-all and end-all of the human rights protection 
and promotion process. It is imperative to put equal, if 
not  sharper,  focus  on  providing  international  support 
for  capacity-building  in  order  to  enable  countries  to 
better implement recommendations.
As  we  enter  the  second  decade  of  the  Council’s 
existence,  my  delegation  believes  that  it  is  high  time 
for economic, social and cultural rights, especially the 
right  to  development,  to  be  given  equal  importance 
along  with  civil  and  political  rights  in  the  global 
human rights discussion. Accordingly, the Philippines 
continues to work with the international community to 
ensure  that  the  multidimensional  aspects  of  that  right 
are mainstreamed in all the relevant areas. Moreover, 
given 
that  migrants  are  recognized  as  positive 
contributors  to  inclusive  and  sustainable  development 
in their countries of origin, transit and destination, we 
urge  everyone  to  uphold  and  respect  their  economic, 
social and cultural rights.
22/29 
16-36139
04/11/2016 
A/71/PV.41
With  regard  to  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council, the Philippines supported, among others, the 
resolution  on  unaccompanied  migrant  children  and 
adolescents  and  human  rights.  The  resolution  calls 
upon  countries  of  origin,  transit  and  destination  to 
facilitate  family  reunification,  as  appropriate,  as  an 
important objective that promotes the welfare and the 
best interests of unaccompanied migrant children and 
adolescents. The resolution also calls for avoidance of 
arbitrary arrest and arbitrary detention.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  wishes  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  express  its  support  for  the  important 
work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  its  role  in 
fostering genuine, inclusive and constructive dialogue.
Ms.  Kupradze  (Georgia):  At  the  outset,  let  me 
thank  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
for  presenting  the  Council’s  comprehensive  report 
(A/71/53). We applaud the leadership of President Choi 
Kyonglim in reinforcing the joint efforts to effectively 
address multiplying human rights challenges. I would 
like to reiterate Georgia’s strong support for the work 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  its  mechanisms  as 
key  instruments  for  promoting  and  protecting  human 
rights worldwide.
Over  the  past  decade  we  have  witnessed  the 
Council standing at the forefront of protecting human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  Nevertheless,  the 
systematic  violation  of  human  rights  is  a  common 
phenomenon worldwide. As a result of armed conflicts, 
millions  of  people  are  deprived  of  their  fundamental 
rights and freedoms as they become victims of armed 
hostilities, forcible displacement, expulsion from their 
homes  and  separation  from  their  families.  Violence 
and brutality continue to infest the world. Attacks on 
innocent civilians in different parts of the world once 
again  illustrate  that  terrorism  and  violent  extremism 
know  no  boundaries.  In  that  context,  as  a  member  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council,  Georgia  recently  joined 
the  Group  of  Friends  on  countering  and  preventing 
violent  extremism,  which  is  an  important  platform 
for promoting the Group’s agenda in Geneva. Georgia 
stands  ready  to  further  contribute  to  the  work  of 
the Group.
We welcome the work of the Council in addressing 
the  human  rights  situations  in  Syria,  Ukraine,  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, South Sudan, 
Burundi  and  other  countries  by  adopting  relevant 
resolutions.  The  Human  Rights  Council  has  adopted 
landmark 
thematic 
resolutions, 
several 
including 
resolutions  on  protecting  human  rights  defenders  and 
on  protection  against  violence  and  discrimination 
based  on  sexual  orientation  and  gender  identity.  We 
welcome the Council’s establishment of the mandate of 
an independent expert to address the issue of violence 
and  discrimination  based  on  sexual  orientation  and 
gender identity.
Georgia  reiterates 
its  strong  support  for 
the 
Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR),  a  truly  universal 
mechanism aimed at assessing and improving the human 
rights situation in many countries. As we approach the 
next UPR cycle, I would like to stress the importance 
of  the  universal  applicability  of  the  UPR  regulations 
to  all  States  without  distinction  or  discrimination. 
We  must  do  our  utmost  to  prevent  every  attempt  at 
deviation  from  those  principles,  in  order  to  preserve 
the  UPR’s  universality.  We  furthermore  underscore 
the  importance  of  keeping  a  continuous  focus  on  the 
implementation of accepted recommendations, and we 
welcome  the  practice  by  many  States  of  submitting 
voluntary mid-term implementation reports.
The  effective  participation  of  civil  society 
in 
the  work  of  Human  Rights  Council  and 
its 
mechanisms  is  instrumental.  In  that  context,  we 
underline  the  importance  of  strengthening  the  role  of 
non-governmental organizations and creating space for 
the voices of civil society to be heard. We believe that 
the role of a strong and inclusive civil society should be 
decisive for the functioning of modern democracies. I 
am pleased to underline that civil-society organizations 
in  Georgia  are  very  actively  involved  in  all  major 
reform processes.
Let  me  use  this  opportunity  to  refer  to  the 
statements  delivered  by  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights during the two most 
recent  sessions  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  which, 
among  other  important  issues,  covered  developments 
in two occupied regions of Georgia, Abkhazia and the 
Tskhinvali  region,  and  also  highlighted  the  necessity 
of  unhindered  access  by  international  human  rights 
mechanisms  to  those  regions.  We  fully  agree  with 
the High Commissioner’s assessments that in conflict 
situations  and  during  foreign  occupation  the  strong 
involvement and objective reporting of his Office play 
an important role in preventing further violations. As 
the  basic  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  of 
local residents in both occupied regions continue to be 
violated in a systematic manner, particular attention by 
16-36139
23/29
A/71/PV.41 
04/11/2016
the Office of the High Commissioner and the Human 
Rights Council is of paramount importance.
the  role  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  should  be  to 
encourage and to support such an approach.
let  me 
In  conclusion, 
reiterate  our  strong 
commitment to continuing our active engagement with 
the Council and its mechanisms and to contributing to 
the common efforts of promoting and protecting human 
rights for all.
Mr.  Tsymbaliuk  (Ukraine):  The  delegation  of 
Ukraine  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by 
the observer of the European Union and would like to 
make a number of comments in its national capacity.
I thank the President of the Human Rights Council, 
Mr. Choi Kyonglim of the Republic of Korea, for briefing 
the Committee on the Council’s eleventh annual report 
(A/71/53) and for his personal contribution to the work 
of the Council, a contribution that he makes not only in 
formal Human Rights Council settings, but also through 
initiating  thought-provoking  informal  discussions  on 
important challenges facing the United Nations human 
rights pillar.
After 10 years of the Council’s work, we see a great 
untapped  potential  in  that  body.  We  believe  that  any 
human  activity  comprises  a  human  rights  dimension. 
Therefore,  we  support  more  synergy  between  the 
Human Rights Council and the General Assembly and 
the  interaction  of  Human  Rights  Council  with  other 
bodies,  including  the  Security  Council.  That  applies 
to  the  whole  spectrum  of  the  United  Nations  human 
rights  machinery:  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
(UPR),  treaty  bodies  and  the  Human  Rights  Council 
special procedures.
Ten  years  ago  Ukraine  issued  an  open-ended 
invitation  to  the  special  procedures,  and  since  then 
our  invitation  has  been  taken  up  repeatedly.  Just  this 
year,  the  Working  Group  on  the  use  of  mercenaries 
and  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  human  rights  of 
internally  displaced  persons  visited  our  country.  We 
appreciate  the  hard  and  valuable  work  of  those  and 
other  mandate-holders  and,  despite  all  the  challenges 
that Ukraine now faces, we look forward to continued 
cooperation  with  them  and  with  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
(OHCHR)  in  general.  We  do  so  because  we  see  a 
benefit in experts’ detecting trouble spots that should 
be dealt with, and because we highly value the Office’s 
increasing  ability  to  provide  the  necessary  technical 
assistance  to  fix  the  problems  detected.  In  our  view, 
As  a  country  suffering  from  Russian  military 
aggression  and  the  grave  human  rights  violations 
caused by it, we understand from our own experience 
how  much  work  lies  ahead  in  the  areas  of  preventing 
such violations, protecting fundamental freedoms and 
strengthening the comprehensive response to threats to 
security and human rights. The United Nations Human 
Rights Monitoring Mission, undertaken at the request of 
the Government of Ukraine, has documented numerous 
compelling accounts of human rights violations, mostly 
in the temporarily occupied territories of my country. 
We are deeply peturbed by the fact that the missions of 
international organizations and special procedures have 
no  access  to  monitor  the  observance  of  human  rights 
in  the  Autonomous  Republic  of  Crimea,  where  the 
situation continues to deteriorate. Therefore, we believe 
that the grave and systemic nature of the problem with 
regard to the observance of human rights in Crimea by 
the  Russian  occupying  authorities  requires  a  separate 
detailed  OHCHR  report.  I  have  prepared  a  draft 
resolution with that request.
We find the practice of interactive dialogue when 
the  Council  discusses  OHCHR  reports,  based  on  the 
Mission’s  findings  on  the  human  rights  situation  in 
Ukraine,  very  useful.  As  of  now,  such  interactive 
dialogues are envisaged to continue until the Council’s 
thirty-fifth session.
Transparency,  dialogue  and  cooperation  are 
important in achieving progress in the field of human 
rights throughout the world. In that regard, the Universal 
Periodic  Review  has  become  an  essential  tool  for  the 
purposes of international scrutiny. We are approaching 
the third UPR cycle, which will start next year. Ukraine 
is now in the process of preparing its national report to 
undergo the review in autumn 2017. We fully share the 
view that improved implementation and reporting and 
better measurement of impact should be priorities for 
the third UPR cycle.
The importance of the role played by the prevention 
of human rights violations in overall strategies for the 
promotion  and  protection  of  all  human  rights  cannot 
not  be  overemphasized.  The  discussions  held  by  the 
Council, the UPR sessions and the work of the special 
procedures  and  the  treaty  bodies,  together  with  the 
technical  assistance  provided  by  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, 
24/29 
16-36139
04/11/2016 
A/71/PV.41
all help to strengthen that role. However, there is a need 
for  further  evidence-based  research  to  advance  our 
understanding and effective implementation of measures 
that can prevent human rights violations. In that regard, 
on the initiative of Ukraine, together with a core group 
of  countries,  at  its  thirty-third  session  the  Council 
adopted a resolution that asks for the organization of an 
expert workshop to discuss the role and contribution of 
civil society organizations, academia, national human 
rights institutions and other relevant stakeholders in the 
prevention of human rights abuses. Our expectation is 
that the results of the workshop will provide material 
for a practical toolkit for States and other stakeholders 
in  the  practical  application  of  prevention  measures  in 
the promotion and protection of human rights.
Despite challenges in the area of security, Ukraine 
has embarked upon the path of comprehensive reforms 
with  human  rights  at  their  core.  The  implementation 
of  our  human  rights  commitments  will  continue 
to  be  carried  out  in  close  collaboration  with  the 
relevant  international  organizations,  particularly  the 
United Nations.
To conclude, I would like to reaffirm the intention 
of Ukraine to become a member of the Human Rights 
Council for the period 2018-2020 with a view to actively 
participating  in  further  improving  the  functioning 
methods  of  the  Council  and  increasing  the  efficiency 
of its activities.
Mr. Ghaebi (Islamic Republic of Iran): We would 
like to thank the President of the Human Rights Council 
for  his  report  (A/71/53)  to  the  General  Assembly. 
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  been  a  consistent 
supporter  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR) 
mechanism.  We  believe  that  the  universal  periodic 
review has the potential to translate human rights into 
cooperative rather than confrontational discourse. This 
important added value of the Universal Periodic Review 
mechanism  emanates  from  its  intrinsic  principle  of 
equality  in  the  consideration  of  the  human  rights 
situations of all Member States free from selectivity and 
discrimination. In that regard, the Islamic Republic of 
Iran, in close cooperation with all relevant stakeholders, 
has  commenced  the  implementation  of  the  accepted 
recommendations arising from the second UPR cycle.
While  we  appreciate  the  existence  of  cooperative 
and  functioning  mechanisms  in  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  such  as  the  UPR,  we  regret  that  certain 
countries are continuing to pursue their worn-out policy 
of confrontation in place of dialogue and cooperation. 
The sinister insistence on politicization and polarization 
of  human  rights  is  hard  to  comprehend.  Having  said 
that,  we  strongly  recommend  that  the  drivers  of  the 
country-specific  resolutions  against  Iran,  along  with 
a  few  backseat  drivers,  stop  pursuing  the  wrong  and 
misleading  way  of  the  old  rough  road  of  naming  and 
shaming.  Accordingly,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
disassociates itself from the part of the Human Rights 
Council report contained in document A/71/53, which 
includes  the  destructive  resolution  on  the  so-called 
situation  of  human  rights  in  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran.
its  fairness, 
Meanwhile, guided by the principles of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  Human  Rights  Council 
should  firmly  maintain 
impartiality, 
non-selectivity  and  respect  for  different  religions, 
values, traditions and cultures and refrain from imposing 
a single lifestyle and non-consensual concept on others. 
With  such  understanding,  we  reiterate  our  principled 
position  of  non-recognition  of  and  non-cooperation 
with  such  mandates  as  sexual  orientation  and  gender 
identity,  which  are  created  by  the  Council  out  of  the 
sphere of internationally recognized human rights.
As  Chair  of 
the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries, the Islamic Republic of Iran coordinated a 
number  of  resolutions  in  the  Human  Rights  Council 
on  behalf  of  the  non-member  States,  including  the 
right to development, international cooperation in the 
field of human rights, and human rights and unilateral 
coercive measures. We look forward to their effective 
implementation.
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  recalling 
the 
vaguely  worded  resolution  against  violent  extremism, 
which  the  General  Assembly  backed  by  consensus  at 
President Rouhani’s initiative, would like to highlight 
the  important  role  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
in  confronting  and  addressing  violent  extremism 
conducive  to  terrorism.  The  Human  Rights  Council 
has a role to play in raising global awareness towards 
the  imminent  threat  of  terrorism,  which  is  creeping 
throughout the Middle East though, for sure, it will not 
stop there. The Human Rights Council should warn the 
world about the speed and mobility of the evil forces of 
violent extremism and terrorism and, more importantly, 
warn  the  supporters  of  that  menace,  including  the 
Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham, that the boomerang 
they are throwing towards other nations will hit them in 
its return sooner rather than later.
16-36139
25/29
A/71/PV.41 
04/11/2016
Mr. Tommo Monthe (Cameroon) (spoke in French): 
Earlier  today  from  this  rostrum,  the  representative  of 
Botswana delivered a statement on behalf of the Group 
of  African  States  regarding  the  report  of  the  Human 
Rights Council (A/71/53) under consideration. I would 
like  to  align  myself  with  the  statement  he  made.  In 
addition,  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
introduced  in  a  comprehensive  way  the  report  before 
us.  I  would  like  to  express  my  appreciation  for  that 
introduction and for his work at the head of the Council 
during the reporting period under review.
It  has  been  10  years  since  the  Human  Rights 
Council  was  established,  and  it  actively  continues  its 
work. Cameroon has been a member of the Council and 
very  actively  participated  in  various  of  its  activities. 
It  serves  not  just  as  a  space,  but  rather  as  a  platform 
conducive  to  dialogue  for  an  exchange  of  views  and 
of  experiences;  in  short,  for  mutual  enrichment  and 
promotion in the very important and complex domain 
of human rights for all the peoples of the world, which 
is  why  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  mechanism 
is important.
In the Central African subregion, the achievement 
of  respect  for  human  rights  and  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights  is  entrusted  not  just  to 
the  countries  of  the  subregion  but  above  all  to  the 
Subregional Centre for Human Rights and Democracy 
in  Central  Africa,  established  by  the  United  Nations 
for  human  rights  and  the  promotion  of  democracy  in 
Central  Africa,  which  Cameroon  has  hosted  since  its 
establishment in 2001.
The  Centre’s  goal  is  backstopping  the  work  of 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  (OHCHR)  in  the  subregion,  which 
is  done  through,  on  the  one  hand,  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights  and,  on  the  other  hand, 
providing support for democratization in the countries 
in  the  subregion.  To  that  end,  the  Centre  regularly 
organizes seminars and national workshops in capacity-
building,  bringing  on  board  various  stakeholders  in 
the  promotion  and  the  protection  of  human  rights.  It 
periodically  submits  a  report  on  its  activities  to  the 
Assembly and to OHCHR, which leads to collaboration 
between the two institutions. Cameroon would like to 
see  OHCHR  give  greater  attention  to  the  Centre  and 
to  increase  its  human  and  financial  resources,  which 
would allow the Centre to better cope with its expanded 
programmes. 
Strongly dedicated to the fundamental values and 
ideals  in  the  area  of  the  protection  and  promotion  of 
human  rights,  Cameroon  accords  special  attention  to 
the issue. Human rights are enshrined in my country’s 
Constitution  and  are  formulated  in  its  laws,  policies 
and  programmes.  The  principles  of  equality  and 
non-discrimination  and  the  commitment  to  protect 
vulnerable groups are also embodied in them. So as to 
better highlight those rights and principles and ensure 
that every individual benefits from the progress made 
in  the  area  of  human  rights  in  Cameroon,  a  national 
self-evaluation system is in place and is complemented 
by the mechanisms that cooperate with treaty bodies.
At  the  national  level,  every  year  since  2005 
Cameroon  has  published  a  report  on  the  status  of 
human  rights  in  the  country.  The  report  outlines  the 
Government’s  work  to  promote  and  protect  human 
rights.  It  covers  civil,  political,  economic,  social  and 
cultural rights in general, together with those of socially 
vulnerable groups. The report is based on cross-cutting 
and  inclusive  data  and  incorporates  the  contributions 
of  civil  society;  its  purpose  is  to  assess  the  progress 
made  and  the  challenges  that  need  to  be  addressed 
by  all  stakeholders,  with  a  view  to  formulating 
future strategies.
At  the  international  level,  constructive  dialogue 
between  Cameroon  and 
international  mechanisms 
for  protecting  human  rights  also  provides  a  means  of 
assessment. Cameroon regularly submits its reports to 
the relevant treaty bodies of the United Nations. Since 
September  2014,  the  report  has  included  a  standing 
invitation to all special procedures, and in that regard 
visits have been announced by the Special Rapporteur 
on  the  rights  of  indigenous  peoples  and  the  Special 
Rapporteur  on  the  sale  of  children,  child  prostitution 
and child pornography.
Thanks to all the Government’s efforts, significant 
progress has been made in the area of human rights in 
Cameroon.  As  examples,  we  can  underscore  reduced 
illiteracy,  improved  enrolment  rates,  better  health 
indicators,  stable  living  standards  and  quality  of  life, 
strengthened  good  governance,  the  inclusion  of  the 
gender aspect in public policy, a stepped-up fight against 
impunity  and 
the  progressive  professionalization 
of  teaching  personnel.  Those  efforts  deserve  to  be 
consolidated while the challenges that continue to exist 
in  various  areas  should  not  be  lost  sight  of.  To  that 
end, in December 2015, the Government of Cameroon 
adopted  a  national  action  plan  for  the  promotion 
26/29 
16-36139
04/11/2016 
A/71/PV.41
and  protection  of  human  rights.  The  plan  identifies 
the  efforts  to  be  undertaken  and  defines  the  roles  to 
be  played  by  stakeholders,  with  the  aim  of  making 
the  protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights  more 
effective in my country.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  our 
unwavering  commitment  to  the  values  and  ideals  of 
human  rights  so  as  to  promote  peace  throughout  the 
world. Accordingly, we would like to serve again on the 
Human Rights Council, beginning in 2018.
Ms.  Al-Thani  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to thank His Excellency Mr. Choi 
Kyonglim,  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
for his briefing and his efforts to enhance respect for 
and  promote  human  rights.  From  its  own  experience 
in  the  Council,  on  which  it  served  for  three  terms, 
Qatar  reiterates  its  conviction  that  the  Council  plays 
an  important  role  as  the  best  and  most  appropriate 
international mechanism to promote universal respect 
for  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  Without 
any  doubt,  the  new  challenges  arising  from  armed 
conflicts,  acts  of  terrorism,  violent  extremism  and 
discrimination  mean  that  the  Council  must  assume 
increased  responsibility  and  increasing  burdens.  That 
will require a redoubling of efforts if the goals for which 
the Council was established are to be attained and its 
mandate fulfilled in accordance with the principles of 
impartiality, objectivity and non-selectivity.
The report (A/71/53) of the Human Rights Council 
includes  the  resolutions  of  the  Council  on  the  human 
rights situations in the occupied Palestinian territories 
and  in  Syria.  They  reflect  the  gravity  of  the  blatant 
violations  of  human  rights  perpetrated  against  our 
Palestinian and Syrian brothers, which call for prompt 
and effective measures by the international community 
commensurate  with  the  seriousness  of  the  situation 
faced  by  civilians  as  a  result  of  the  lack  of  even  the 
minimum  level  of  fundamental  rights.  In  the  light  of 
the  gravity  of  the  situation  and  the  direct  impact  on 
human rights, and in accordance with the Charter of the 
United Nations and international law, the State of Qatar 
continues  to  spare  no  effort  within  the  international 
community to address that dire situation, as well as to 
achieve peace and security in the region and the world 
through  the  implementation  of  resolutions,  including 
those of the Human Rights Council .
Qatar  commends  the  effective  role  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  in  offering  technical  assistance  and 
capacity-building  to  States  to  help  them  to  fulfil 
their  obligations  in  protecting  and  promoting  human 
rights. In support of that role, the specific training and 
documentation  mandate  carried  out  by  the  Centre  for 
South-West  Asia  and  the  Arab  Region  of  the  Office 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human 
Rights, which is hosted by Qatar, deserves our praise. 
The Centre contributes effectively to capacity-building 
and promoting human rights at the regional level. It is 
a  source  of  experience  and  references  for  researchers 
and  civil  society  organizations  concerned  with 
human rights.
Based on the principle of international cooperation 
and joint responsibility in addressing crises, promoting 
international  peace  and  security  and  encouraging 
development  at  the  regional  and  international  levels, 
Qatar  has  sought  to  achieve  the  objectives  of  the 
United  Nations  through  its  efforts  aimed  at  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes through the rule of law 
and  at  building  peaceful  societies  that  are  capable  of 
achieving  development  and  promoting  human  rights 
in line with Sustainable Development Goal 16. In that 
context,  my  country  has  given  particular  attention  to 
the area of education. It has launched various initiatives 
to promote the achievement of the right to education in 
other States, especially developing States.
At  the  national  level,  the  State  of  Qatar  accords 
great  importance  to  the  protection  and  promotion  of 
human rights, which are guaranteed by its Constitution 
as  well  as  within  Qatar’s  National  Vision  2030.  The 
latter covers the inclusion of the subject of human rights 
in  curriculums;  the  promotion  of  the  human  rights  of 
women,  children,  persons  with  disabilities  and  the 
elderly; combating human trafficking; improving health 
care and education; and providing a dignified life for 
immigrant workers. In that context, the State of Qatar 
has  succeeded  in  developing  a  framework  in  which 
institutional reform is able to guarantee the protection 
and promotion of human rights. It shares its experience 
with other States and United Nations mechanisms and 
pursues  an  open-door  policy  of  cooperation  with  the 
special procedures.
In  conclusion,  the  State  of  Qatar  renews  its 
commitment  to  continuing  its  efforts  to  promote  and 
protect  human  rights  and  will  continue  to  cooperate 
with 
the  relevant 
United  Nations  mechanisms,  especially  the  Human 
Rights Council and its special procedures.
international  organizations  and 
16-36139
27/29
A/71/PV.41 
04/11/2016
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item for this meeting.
rights,  including  by  conducting  investigations  and 
instituting legal proceedings, as necessary.
I shall now call on those representatives who wish 
to speak in exercise of the right of reply. May I remind 
members  that,  in  accordance  with  decision  34/401, 
statements in exercise of the right of reply are limited 
to 10 minutes for the first statement and to five minutes 
for the second and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr.  Goltyaev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): I would like to exercise the right of reply to 
respond to the statements made by the representatives 
of Georgia and Ukraine.
to 
With  regard 
the  statement  made  by 
the 
representative of Georgia, we would like to call upon 
that  country  to  finally  recognize  the  new  political 
reality,  namely,  the  existence  of  two  independent 
States: South Ossetia and Abkhazia. In that regard, any 
matters, including those concerning human rights, have 
to  be  addressed  directly  to  the  Governments  of  those 
countries using existing international formats, first and 
foremost the Geneva international discussions.
Turning to the statement made by the representative 
of  Ukraine,  I  would  like  to  recall  that  Crimea  and 
Sevastopol  became  part  of  the  Russian  Federation  as 
a  result  of  the  referendum,  which  was  conducted  in 
full  accordance  with  international  law.  The  people  of 
Crimea and Sevastopol have realized their right to self-
determination,  which  is  guaranteed  by  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  by  international  conventions 
on human rights, as well as by the Declaration on the 
Principles  of  International  Law  concerning  Friendly 
Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance 
with the Charter of the United Nations, of 1970.
We would like to repeat that the Constitution of the 
Russian Federation and the international agreements of 
which the Russian Federation is a signatory, including 
those  pertaining  to  human  rights,  apply  in  Crimea 
and  Sevastopol.  The  people  who  live  in  the  Republic 
of  Crimea  and  the  city  of  Sevastopol,  like  any  other 
individuals  who  come  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Russian  Federation,  enjoy  all  human  rights  that  are 
legally guaranteed by Russia. If they have grounds for 
believing  that  their  rights  or  freedoms  have  in  some 
way been violated, the competent Russian authorities, 
acting  in  accordance  with  their  mandates,  respond  to 
any information regarding possible violations of human 
Mr. Ri Song Chol (Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea):  My  delegation  would  like  to  exercise  its 
right of reply to respond to the statements made by the 
observer of the European Union (EU) and some of its 
member countries.
totally  resents 
My  delegation 
the  groundless 
allegations made by the EU and those EU countries. The 
EU is the main violator of human rights. EU countries 
have  deplorable  human  rights  violation  records:  the 
refugee  crisis,  which  involves  the  ill-treatment  and 
exploitation  of  migrants  and  refugees;  Islamophobia; 
increasing  unemployment; 
assault. 
Refugees in European countries are far from protected 
and  are  subjected  to  humiliation,  expulsion  and  even 
to  violence,  a  situation  that  causes  strong  protest  and 
concern within the international community.
and 
sexual 
  First  and  foremost,  the  EU  and  other  Western 
countries  should  attend  to  their  own  human  rights 
situations.  The  specific  procedures  of  some  countries 
are obvious examples of politicization, selectivity and 
double standards and interference into other countries’ 
sovereignty.  Such  procedures  should  be  ended  in  the 
interests  of  facilitating  constructive  dialogue  and 
cooperation in the handling of human rights issues.
Ms. Kupradze (Georgia): I take the floor to exercise 
our right of reply to respond to the comments just made 
by the representative of the Russian Federation.
First  of  all,  it  is  surprising  that  the  delegation  of 
the  Russian  Federation  saw  fit  to  exercise  its  right 
of  reply,  given  the  fact  that  in  our  statement  we  did 
not  mention  Russia.  However,  since  the  status  of  the 
occupied Georgian regions of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali 
was  mentioned,  let  me  once  again,  in  response  to 
the  misleading  comments  made  by 
the  Russian 
delegation,  state  that  Russia  is  an  occupying  Power 
in  the  Georgian  regions  of  Abkhazia  and  Tskhinvali. 
It  still  maintains  thousands  of  troops  and  military 
bases  in  those  territories,  where  human  rights  are 
systematically violated.
  Let  me  once  again  reiterate,  with  regard  to  the 
comments  made  concerning  the  Geneva  international 
discussions,  that  the  conflict  has  only  two  parties: 
one  of  them  is  Georgia,  a  country  that  is  defending 
its  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity,  and  the  other 
party  is  the  Russian  Federation,  which  consistently 
28/29 
16-36139
04/11/2016 
A/71/PV.41
and  continuously  violates  our  country.  We  discussed 
those  issues  at  the  Geneva  international  discussions 
with the other party to the conflict. At the same time, 
let me reiterate that all this recalls the urgent need for 
international  human  rights  mechanisms  to  access  and 
monitor the occupied regions. Given the current status 
of the Russian Federation in that region as as occupying 
Power, its statements have no credibility whatsoever.
Ms.  Horbachova  (Ukraine):  I  would  like  to 
exercise my right of reply to respond to the statement 
and  comments  just  made  by  the  representative  of  the 
Russian Federation. I will be very brief.
I would like to once again stress that the conflict in 
certain areas of the Donbas, including the Donetsk and 
Luhansk regions, was caused by the Russian aggression 
against Ukraine, which started with the occupation of 
the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Were it not for the 
constant  and  sustained  flow  of  weapons  and  fighters, 
as  well  as  the  presence  of  regular  Russian  troops  on 
Ukrainian territory, the lives and well-being of millions 
of  Ukrainian  citizens  would  not  have  been  adversely 
affected.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 63.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
16-36139
29/29
