United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
16th plenary meeting
Thursday, 22 September 2016, 6.25 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.16
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  El  Haycen 
(Mauritania), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.25 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Rashid  Meredov,  Deputy 
Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers and Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Turkmenistan.
Mr.  Meredov  (Turkmenistan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
First of all, I have the honour to convey to the peoples of 
the nations represented here greetings and best wishes 
for  their  peace  and  prosperity  from  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Gurbanguly  Berdimuhamedov,  President  of 
Turkmenistan.
I would like to congratulate Mr. Peter Thomson on 
his election to the presidency of the General Assembly 
at its seventy-first session and to wish him every success 
in his responsibilities. I would also like to express our 
appreciation  to  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  President  of 
the Assembly at its seventieth session, for his effective 
work.
The current state of global realities and the nature 
and  direction  of  their  political,  economic  and  social 
processes require Governments and major international 
organizations  to  cooperate  ever  more  closely  and 
with  greater  coordination  if  they  are  to  achieve  their 
principal  shared  goal  of  ensuring  international  peace 
and security and preserving the legal and institutional 
pillars that form the foundation of today’s world order. 
The effectiveness of that cooperation, and our ability to 
strike a reasonable balance between national interests 
and  those  of  the  international  community  as  a  whole, 
will  also  determine  to  a  large  degree  our  success  in 
solving other no less important global problems in the 
areas  of  the  environment,  energy,  food  security  and 
in  combating  terrorism,  drug  trafficking  and  other 
challenges.
Unfortunately, we are currently witnessing complex 
processes  that  are  undermining  global  cooperation  in 
those areas, foremost among them the ever-expanding 
area  of  the  world  with  potential  for  conflict  and  the 
spread  of  breeding  grounds  for  tension.  Conflicts  are 
escalating in various parts of the globe, and the parties 
involved in them increasingly resort to the use of force 
and military means. We are seeing brazen disregard and 
at times outright contempt for the rules of international 
law.
In  view  of  the  situation,  Turkmenistan  calls  on 
Member States to evaluate such manifestations clearly 
and unambiguously and to join in supporting strict and 
scrupulous adherence to the principles and purposes of 
the Charter of the United Nations and the foundational 
international  conventions,  accords  and  agreements 
designed 
to  resolve  conflicts.  We  urge  Member 
States  to  launch  broad-based  consultations  with  a 
view  to  identifying  uniform  conceptual  approaches 
to  de-escalating  conflict  based  on  international  legal 
standards and under the leadership of the United Nations 
as a universal mechanism for settling disputes. We think 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29565 (E)
*1629565*
A/71/PV.16 
22/09/2016
it would be advisable to convene a special meeting of 
the  General  Assembly,  within  the  framework  of  the 
seventy-first session, devoted to strengthening the role 
of international law in the maintenance of global peace 
and security.
The  role  of 
tools  at 
the 
the  peacebuilding 
international  community’s  disposal 
is  growing, 
particularly the potential of the notion of neutrality and 
its conceptual foundations as a basis for strengthening 
general  stability  and  security.  That  received  special 
emphasis at the high-level international conference held 
in  Ashgabat  in  December  2015  to  mark  the  twentieth 
anniversary of Turkmenistan’s neutral status. We take 
this  opportunity  to  express  our  deep  gratitude  to  the 
Member  States  and  international  organizations  that 
participated in the forum and contributed to its success. 
The conference’s final document reflects a willingness 
within the United Nations to consider Turkmenistan’s 
proposal  for  proclaiming  an  international  day  of 
neutrality. Our country has prepared a draft resolution 
for the General Assembly on the subject, and we urge 
the States Members of the United Nations to launch a 
discussion of the text during this session.
The civilized world is facing a threat that transcends 
national borders and political and ideological doctrines. 
Terrorism  falls  outside  human  morality  and  threatens 
to undermine the entire world order and its principles, 
values and foundations. It is precisely for that reason that 
the fight against it must be conducted simultaneously 
at the global, regional and national levels, taking into 
account  the  specific  circumstances  and  political  and 
social realities of each. 
through 
For  the  States  of  our  region,  it  is  crucial  that  we 
ensure  effective,  coordinated  action 
the 
implementation of the United Nations Global Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy  in  Central  Asia.  The  work  in  that 
area  has  recently  been  significantly  intensified  and 
multilateral  cooperation  in  various  fields  has  been 
strengthened. Major international forums on the issue, 
organized on Turkmenistan’s initiative, have helped to 
give our joint efforts an essential, clearly defined and 
substantive  regional  context.  The  major  documents 
adopted on the issue in 2011, the Ashgabat Declaration 
and  Action  Plan  on  countering  terrorism  in  Central 
Asia, will serve as its road map. We believe that they 
contribute  to  multilateral  efforts  aimed  at  combating 
the terrorist threat, and their practical implementation 
will  go  a  long  way  towards  ensuring  our  shared 
success in this work. We look forward to more active 
international cooperation, including that of the United 
Nations Regional Centre for Preventive Diplomacy for 
Central Asia.
Exactly a year ago today, within these very walls, 
the World Summit adopted the long-term 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  17  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs).  These  are  our  common 
responsibility, our common objectives. In that context, 
I  would  like  to  specifically  stress  the  need  for  the 
implementation of the SDGs in the national plans and 
programmes of all States Members of the United Nations. 
Turkmenistan  will  responsibly  and  constructively 
continue to address those issues. Turkmenistan, jointly 
with  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
and  other  United  Nations  agencies,  has  developed 
appropriate indicators for the elaboration of its national 
programmes. Just a few days ago, those indicators were 
officially adopted by the Government of Turkmenistan. 
One of the main focuses of the General Assembly 
at  its  current  session  is  the  desire  for  Member  States 
to  continue  the  wide-ranging  dialogue  on  climate 
change  as  the  most  important  element  of  the  United 
Nations  comprehensive  strategy  for  the  achievement 
of  the  SDGs.  In  our  view,  national  and  international 
instruments  are  the  most  important  tools  for  meeting 
the SDGs. It is appropriate to recall that Turkmenistan’s 
President, speaking at the United Nations Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development,  said  that  progress  could 
not  be  selective  and  that  development  would  not 
be  truly  sustainable  and  long-lasting  unless  it  were 
comprehensive  and  the  undeniable  right  and  heritage 
of  all  nations,  States,  regions  and  continents,  without 
exception.
Turkmenistan  fully  embodies  that  tenet  in  its 
main  approach  to  the  global  environmental  agenda. 
Our  country  has  begun  to  implement  its  national 
development  plans,  which  are  aligned  with 
the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  with  a  true  sense  of 
responsibility. At the legislative level, we have adopted 
the national climate change strategy, which provides for 
a gradual transition to environmental safety standards 
in all major spheres of industrial activity. The strategy 
envisages the priority development of high-technology 
industries  and  the  creation  of  conditions  for  the 
development  of  the  green  economy  as  a  fundamental 
element for the functioning of our entire infrastructure.
the  Paris 
that 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  We  regard 
Tomorrow,  Turkmenistan  will  sign 
2/25 
16-29565
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.16
step  as  a  landmark  in  the  overall  implementation  of 
environmental  tasks  and  goals.  In  that  connection, 
we believe that it is high time to fulfil the core of the 
Paris Agreement by intensifying United Nations efforts 
aimed at developing new international rules linked to 
climate change and environmental protection.
At  the  same  time,  we  need  to  begin  preparing 
specific regional plans for the near and medium term. 
We suggest the convening next year, under the auspices 
of the United Nations, of a special conference dedicated 
to  ways  of  improving  the  environmental  situation  in 
Central Asia. This year, Turkmenistan will assume the 
chairmanship of the International Fund for Saving the 
Aral Sea. Very shortly, we will begin broad consultations 
with  the  States  of  the  region  and  United  Nations 
specialized  entities  with  a  view  to  developing  overall 
policy  and  specific  arrangements  for  our  joint  work 
during the upcoming period. In Central Asia, we have 
major reasons to focus on water resources — how they 
impact regional development, the overall environment 
and social and economic problem, and what role they 
play in resolving serious environmental issues. Given 
the conditions, it has become extremely important for 
the States of the region to design a unified strategy on 
the issue of the use and preservation of water resources. 
Our  country  accords  top  priority  to  cooperation 
with the United Nations. In that regard, we believe it is 
advisable to step up the efforts aimed at implementing 
the decisions reached at the seventh World Water Forum, 
held  in  2015  in  Daegu,  Republic  of  Korea.  We  view 
international  cooperation  in  fighting  desertification 
and  soil  degradation  as  important  areas  of  work.  In 
2014, Turkmenistan hosted an international conference 
on desertification and soil degradation in Central Asia, 
which  was  organized  jointly  by  the  Government  and 
the  United  Nations.  Delegations  from  many  States 
took part in the conference, together with international 
organizations. The outcome document of the conference 
defines the areas of future work on those issues, which 
we  believe  deserve  the  most  scrupulous  attention  and 
evaluation at the level of the United Nations.
for 
Today,  an  effective  model 
international 
cooperation is urgently required to reduce the risks of 
natural  disasters.  Turkmenistan  firmly  believes  that 
efforts  aimed  at  reducing  the  risk  of  disasters  should 
be automatically incorporated into future programmes 
and  plans  for  sustainable  development  and  should  be 
implemented  with  close  cooperation  at  the  bilateral, 
regional and international levels. We call upon Member 
States to intensify their efforts in that area, on the basis 
of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 
2015-2030, which was adopted last year at the Sendai 
Conference.
Today,  as  a  result  of  various  circumstances,  we 
are  facing  acute  problems  because  of  the  number  of 
migrants, refugees and stateless people. It is apparent 
that  there  are  no  magic  formulas  for  solving  these 
problems. Nevertheless, in our view, it is high time to 
devise  targeted  international  cooperation  initiatives, 
tailored  to  each  specific  situation.  A  key  role  in  that 
regard  should  be  played  by  specialized  entities  of  the 
United  Nations,  including  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights,  and  by  the  International  Migration 
Organization, the International Federation of Red Cross 
and Red Crescent Societies and other organizations. We 
stand ready to assist them to the utmost. Our country 
has had positive experiences in that area. In 2012, jointly 
with the United Nations and the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation,  we  hosted  an  international  ministerial 
conference  on  refugees  in  the  Muslim  world.  In  June 
2014, the Government of Turkmenistan, jointly with the 
International Migration Organization and the Office of 
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 
organized  the  International  Conference  on  Migration 
and Statelessness: Identifying Challenges and the Way 
Forward, which was held in Ashgabat.
We call upon all Member States to step up efforts 
aimed  at  implementing  the  main  provisions  of  the 
outcome documents of those international forums. We 
also  reaffirm  our  desire  and  readiness  to  continue  to 
work closely with the United Nations, Member States 
and  all  interested  parties  in  solving  this  pressing 
problem of our times.
The comprehensive achievement of the SDGs must 
be  viewed  as  the  main  pillar  of  the  Organization’s 
global strategy, which not only has political, social and 
economic  components  but  is  also  a  moral  framework 
for  the  modern  world  order.  A  great  deal  has  already 
been achieved. In that connection, we note the role of 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, whose determination, 
political will and persistence have enabled us to achieve 
some results.
Notwithstanding  the  diversity  of  tasks  facing 
each  individual  country,  we  are  brought  together 
threats. 
by  our  common  hopes,  concerns  and 
16-29565
3/25
A/71/PV.16 
22/09/2016
Turkmenistan stands ready to search together with its 
partners  for  new  approaches  and  ways  to  overcome 
the  challenges  facing  humankind.  We  reaffirm  our 
steadfast  commitment  to  cooperate  with  the  United 
Nations,  our  active  involvement  in,  and  support  for, 
its political and diplomatic efforts aimed at preserving 
and  strengthening  the  existing  architecture  of  global 
security and implementing its plans and programmes in 
the economic, social, environmental, humanitarian and 
other areas. Turkmenistan regards its partnership with 
the United Nations as a strategic foundation for all its 
work in the international arena.
Address by Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Prime Minister 
of the Hellenic Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Hellenic Republic.
Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Prime Minister of the Hellenic 
Republic, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Alexis 
Tsipras, Prime Minister of the Hellenic Republic, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Tsipras  (Greece):  In  2015,  we  celebrated  the 
seventieth anniversary of the signing of the Charter of 
the  United  Nations  in  San  Francisco  by  reflecting  on 
the challenges facing us as an international community 
and  our  capacity  to  resolve  them.  A  year  later,  the 
challenges  and  problems  still  persist  and  the  same 
questions  remain.  Will  we  be  able  to  bring  dynamic, 
equitable  and  sustainable  growth  to  our  economies 
with  the  global  economic  crisis  still  upon  us?  Will 
we  be  able  to  manage  migration  effectively,  on  the 
basis of international law, at a time when the number 
of displaced people in the world is greater than it has 
ever  been  since  the  Second  World  War?  Will  we  be 
able to promote peace and security in an increasingly 
unstable  global  and  regional  environment?  Or  are  we 
going  to  allow  the  forces  of  nationalism,  xenophobia 
and  neoliberalism  to  dictate  ineffective  or  dangerous 
responses to the challenges we face?
In  that  context,  the  main  topic  of  this  year’s 
General  Assembly  —  the  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development — is more timely 
than ever. In recent years, Greece has been the member 
of the eurozone hit the hardest by the economic crisis 
and the austerity measures imposed to resolve it. As a 
front-line European Union (EU) State, it has faced the 
greatest  migration  flows  to  the  EU  since  the  Second 
World War. Greece has been at the centre of a region 
with  increasing  security  challenges,  with  instability 
deepening  in  the  Balkans  and  conflicts  worsening  in 
Ukraine in the North, Libya in the West and Syria in 
the East.
Since  I  spoke  here  last  year  (see  A/70/PV.22), 
Greece  has  faced  these  great  crises  standing  strong. 
Today, our discussion is no longer about our surviving 
crises. Today, now that we have political and financial 
stability,  we  are  focusing  on  ways  of  promoting 
economic  growth,  developing  more  effective  and 
humane migration management and maintaining peace 
and security in our broader neighbourhood. Today, we 
speak  about  resolving  challenges  with  an  impact,  not 
just Greece but in Europe and beyond.
At  the  economic  level,  after  seven  turbulent 
years  of  recession,  Greece  is  now  emerging  from  the 
deepest  social  and  economic  crisis  in  its  post-war 
history.  We  are  working  hard  to  ensure  sustainable, 
inclusive  growth.  Sometimes,  despite  our  efforts,  we 
take  a  step  backwards,  but  we  always  strive  to  push 
forward  to  prove  that  a  country  that  has  lost  25  per 
cent  of  its  gross  domestic  product  in  six  years,  and 
watched  unemployment  and  poverty  rates  skyrocket, 
can stand on its feet; and to create a business-friendly 
environment that encourages investment and does away 
with  the  sins  of  corruption,  patronage  and  parasitic 
business practices.
that 
At  the  same  time,  we  are  confronting  the  serious 
social  consequences 
imposed  austerity  has 
inflicted on Greek society. Our absolute priority is to 
reduce unemployment as soon as possible to the average 
level  for  Europe  through  a  new  production  paradigm 
that utilizes the potential of our highly educated human 
capital. At the same time, we are taking advantage of 
Greece’s  strategic  position  at  the  crossroads  of  three 
continents,  so  that  it  can  establish  itself  as  a  hub  for 
energy, trade and maritime and railway transportation 
in  the  region.  We  are  promoting  necessary  reforms, 
while protecting the welfare State and labour rights. We 
are urging our partners to proceed to the finalization of 
the necessary measures for our debt reduction, in order 
to  regain  market  confidence  and  prepare  the  way  for 
our return to capital markets. The first signs that our 
planning is delivering are already reflected in the return 
to positive growth rates, the steady downward trend in 
4/25 
16-29565
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.16
unemployment,  the  positive  public  finance  accounts 
and the revived investment interest from abroad.
cooperation against trafficking networks and additional 
initiatives to tackle the root causes of migration.
Besides  the  substantial  economic  challenge,  the 
Greek people are confronting the enormous challenge 
of refugee and migration management, a challenge that, 
as we have already underlined, is global and has to be 
dealt with collectively, on the basis of our shared values. 
Since  I  spoke  here  last,  over  1  million  migrants 
have  entered  Greece.  Nearly  60,000  migrants  remain 
stranded  in  Greece  today,  after  our  northern  borders 
were  shut  off  through  the  unilateral  action  of  other 
countries. An enormous political crisis has erupted in 
Europe,  with  increasingly  strong  xenophobic  forces 
pushing forward their agenda and claiming that respect 
for  international  law  is  a  luxury  in  Europe  today  and 
that  people  should  be  pushed  back  into  the  sea;  that 
sharing  the  responsibility  for  hosting  refugees  is  an 
unacceptable imposition and that front-line States alone 
should be host countries; and that our economic crisis is 
reason enough for us to betray our values. 
Those xenophobic forces received the answer they 
deserved, and that answer came from the Greek people. 
The  people  of  Europe  most  hard  hit  by  the  economic 
crisis  proved  to  the  world  that  neither  our  values  nor 
our  humanity  are  conditional.  Despite  the  calls  for 
pushbacks, our coastguard has saved tens of thousands 
of lives, instead of endangering them. Despite the calls 
for violating the Geneva Convention, my country, whose 
asylum  service  did  not  exist  three  years  ago,  deals 
fairly and in accordance with the Geneva Convention 
with the fourth-largest number of asylum applications 
in Europe. 
Together  with  Turkish  and  European  authorities, 
we are implementing the very difficult, but necessary, 
European Union-Turkey agreement. It is an agreement 
that has led to a decrease in flows, but most important, 
a decrease in deaths in the Aegean Sea. It has replaced 
the dangerous route of the Aegean Sea with a legal one 
to  Europe.  In  that  context,  today  more  than  ever,  we 
need a strong international initiative that will establish 
a  new  global  framework  for  refugee  management, 
thereby undercutting the xenophobic migration agenda. 
Such  a  framework  must  include  increased  support 
to  countries  hosting  refugees,  increased  returns  of 
people not in need of international protection, and the 
resettlement  and  relocation  of  those  in  need  of  such 
protection. Moreover, it must include increased security 
The third big challenge that Greece is facing is how 
to  contribute  to  peace,  security  and  prosperity  in  an 
increasingly unstable region. Greece has been very clear 
in  its  response  to  this  challenge.  We  have  developed 
bilateral  and,  together  with  the  Republic  of  Cyprus, 
trilateral relations with all our neighbours with a view 
to promoting peace, cooperation and international law. 
We have organized multilateral initiatives, such as the 
International  Conference  on  Religious  and  Cultural 
Pluralism and Peaceful Coexistence in the Middle East 
and the Rhodes Conference on security in the Eastern 
Mediterranean and beyond. And we have consistently 
promoted these values, in all international organizations, 
in  relation  to  all  the  conflicts  in  our  broader  region. 
Furthermore, we are confronting terrorism wherever it 
emerges and in relation to the conflicts in Syria, Libya 
and Ukraine and the Middle East peace process.
Today,  we  have  before  us  a  very  important 
challenge to substantially promote peace and stability 
in  our  region.  We  remain  steadfast  in  our  support  to 
intercommunal talks for a just, viable and comprehensive 
solution  to  the  Cyprus  issue,  on  the  basis  of  United 
Nations resolutions and the status of Cyprus as an EU 
member State — a solution that can be viable only if 
we leave behind the anachronistic guarantee system of 
the past and ensure a withdrawal of Turkish occupying 
forces from the island. We support a solution that would 
provide a sense of security and trust to all the people of 
Cyprus and prepare the ground for broader cooperation 
in our unstable region.
We have enhanced our dialogue and relations with 
Turkey  through  a  wide  range  of  initiatives,  including 
our  excellent  cooperation  in  managing  refugee  and 
migration flows. And we have underlined that the only 
way  to  build  solid,  long-lasting  neighbourly  relations 
is  by  respecting  international  law.  On  the  name  issue 
of  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  we 
consistently  support  a  mutually  acceptable  compound 
name with a geographical qualifier for use in relation to 
everyone. And we have promoted confidence-building 
measures that aim to strengthen trust and cross-border 
cooperation at this crucial time.
Today  —  unlike  a  year  ago  —  the  challenges 
we  are  facing  in  Greece  are  opportunities.  They  are 
opportunities  for  the  international  community,  for 
Europe  and  for  our  region.  They  are  opportunities  to 
16-29565
5/25
A/71/PV.16 
22/09/2016
turn  the  page  on  the  crisis  of  the  past  and  avert  new, 
dangerous  crises.  We  need  a  just,  viable  solution  in 
Cyprus that would contribute to changing the unstable 
dynamics of the region. That is why we need a solution 
to  the  debt  issue  that  would  contribute  to  a  new 
sustainable growth model, of the kind we talk about so 
much  here  in  the  United  Nations  and  in  Europe,  and 
would leave the vicious cycle of austerity behind.
We  also  need  a  global,  effective  response  to  the 
migration  crisis,  on  the  basis  of  international  law. 
This must be a response that undercuts the dangerous 
xenophobic and nationalistic voices that are emerging so 
forcefully for the first time since the Second World War. 
Of  course,  backward-looking  and  ultra-conservative 
forces  will  attempt  to  provide  solutions  to  these 
problems  by  investing  in  fear,  sometimes  labelling 
themselves  anti-systemic  forces.  Nevertheless,  it  is 
very clear that it is not the democratic forces that are 
critical of the system that the international community 
should worry about. It is those forces that threaten our 
values  and  instead  of  aiming  to  change  the  world  for 
better,  aim  to  divide  it  through  fear,  xenophobia  and 
nationalism.  Today  it  is  more  important  than  ever  to 
stand by peace, democracy and sustainable growth on 
all the fronts where they are being challenged, and in 
Greece we know that very well.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Hellenic Republic for the statement he 
has just made. 
Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Prime Minister of the Hellenic 
Republic, was escorted from the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Erlan Idrissov, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan. 
Mr.  Idrissov  (Kazakhstan):  First,  let  me  join  the 
other speakers in congratulating Mr. Peter Thomson on 
his election to the presidency of the General Assembly 
at its seventy-first session and to assure him of our full 
support.  We  would  also  like  to  express  our  thanks  to 
His Excellency Mr. Mogens Lykketoft for his most able 
stewardship of the Assembly at its seventieth session.
This session is convened at a time when the United 
Nations  is  facing  tremendous  challenges.  Earlier  this 
week two high-level events sought to address the plight 
of refugees and considered ways to meet the legitimate 
expectations of millions of migrant workers. 
The  global  economy  is  slowing  down,  thereby 
affecting all nations’ prosperity. New transcontinental 
trade  and  investment  arrangements  may  lead  to  a 
weakened World Trade Organization and a fragmented 
world  economy.  That  could  signal  the  beginning  of 
a  new  round  of  negative  and  damaging  competition 
among  global  markets.  The  evolution  of  the  global 
community  of  nations  in  the  decades  to  come  will 
depend largely upon our ability to cooperate and find a 
common language. 
Our foreign policy reflects a deep-rooted belief in 
the power of dialogue. A call for dialogue is the central 
message  of  my  President,  set  out  in  his  “Manifesto: 
the  world,  the  twenty-first  century”,  which  has  been 
circulated  as  an  official  document  of  the  Security 
Council and the General Assembly (A/70/818, annex). 
The  Manifesto  offers  a  realistic  perspective  on  the 
world  and  an  ambitious  vision  based  on  unity,  rather 
than division, and on cooperation, rather than rivalry. 
It  identifies  a  lack  of  trust  among  major  nations  and 
regional  groups  as  the  main  obstacle  to  progress 
towards  a  true  community  of  nations.  That  statement 
rings especially true in the area of nuclear disarmament, 
where  it  is  the  passionate  wish  of  the  President  of 
Kazakhstan to achieve, by 2045, the centennial year of 
the United Nations, a world free of nuclear weapons. 
As a country that closed, 25 years ago, the largest 
nuclear test site in its territory and renounced the world’s 
fourth-largest  nuclear  arsenal,  we  have  the  full  moral 
right and responsibility to push forward the disarmament 
process.  On  29  August,  the  International  Day  against 
Nuclear  Tests,  Astana  hosted  a  major  international 
conference that stressed a sense of urgency in dealing 
with the nuclear threat and generated massive support 
for the anti-nuclear movement. The outcome document 
calls  upon  the  nuclear-weapon  States  to  honour  their 
obligations and take practical steps to achieve nuclear 
zero.  In  November,  the  Astana  peace  summit  will  be 
convened  in  my  country  to  craft  a  viable  strategic 
approach  based  on  our  objective  of  global  peace  and 
security, with nuclear disarmament as a crucial element 
of any future peace efforts.
My  country  was  the  initial  sponsor  of  resolution 
70/57,  on  the  achievement  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
world,  which  was  adopted  in  December  2015.  We 
host  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency’s  Low-
Enriched Uranium Bank for the peaceful use of nuclear 
fuel.  September  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
Treaty on a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone in Central Asia. 
6/25 
16-29565
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.16
Also  known  as  the  Treaty  of  Semipalatinsk,  it  is  the 
most recent major breakthrough in global disarmament. 
We  support  the  establishment  of  similar  zones  across 
the globe, and especially in the Middle East, where we 
believe that such measures will strengthen global and 
regional security.
Regrettably,  international  negotiations  on  nuclear 
disarmament  have  stalled,  while  numerous  loopholes 
in  international  law  are  used  to  sidestep  the  ban  on 
the military use of nuclear technology. That is why we 
endorsed the report of the August meeting of the Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  Nuclear  Disarmament.  The 
group  recommends  convening  a  conference  next  year 
to  start  negotiations  on  comprehensive  and  complete 
nuclear  disarmament,  with  a  view  to  eventually 
stigmatizing the possession of nuclear weapons. At the 
same time, we continue to support the Conference on 
Disarmament and hope that its members will generate 
enough  political  will  to  revitalize  the  work  of  that 
important body, in order to achieve its ultimate goal of 
a nuclear-weapon-free world.
In the same vein, we will work resolutely towards 
the  universal  application  and  enforcement  of  all  the 
relevant  international  instruments.  As  an  article  XIV 
co-Chair  of 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty, we stand for a complete ban on nuclear testing 
and  believe  that  the  unacceptable  and  irresponsible 
actions of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
seriously  undermine  stability  and  security  in  North-
East  Asia  and  worldwide.  Furthermore,  such  actions 
have undermined the entire disarmament process. 
Controlling the means of delivery is a vital element 
of  disarmament.  As  a  Chair  of  The  Hague  Code  of 
Conduct  against  Ballistic  Missile  Proliferation,  we 
will submit a draft resolution to the General Assembly 
in  October  to  stress  the  importance  of  the  universal 
application of The Hague Code.
Kazakhstan’s  Manifesto  declares  war  on  war  and 
calls for the total elimination of that ugly phenomenon 
from  our  lives.  We  continue  to  stress  the  fact  that 
the  existence  of  military  blocs  hinders  international 
cooperation  and  creates  situations 
the 
security  of  individual  countries  is  ensured  at  the 
expense  of  others.  Moreover,  sanctions  and  economic 
fragmentation  are  counterproductive  and  create  new 
lines of division that serve to alienate nations.
in  which 
Genuine security is based on mutual dialogue. With 
that idea in mind, our President played a role in restoring 
cooperative  relations  between  Russia  and  Turkey. 
Kazakhstan’s initiative on Islamic rapprochement was 
favourably  received  at  the  Organization  of  Islamic 
Cooperation  Summit  in  April.  Next  year  we  will 
promote  a  high-level  event  under  United  Nations 
auspices  to  highligh  the  principles  of  international 
law,  with  a  view  to  re-establishing  the  vital  role  of 
international organizations.
As a country with an impeccable record of religious 
tolerance,  Kazakhstan  pays  particular  attention  to 
following  up  the  decisions  and  recommendations  of 
the  triennial  meetings  of  the  Astana-based  Congress 
of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions. We are 
grateful to the President of the General Assembly for 
convening a high-level conversation in May to address 
the  role  of  political  and  religious  leaders  in  building 
bridges  and  spreading  messages  of  tolerance  and 
peaceful  coexistence.  That  event  was  followed  by  a 
high-profile gathering in Astana that focused on finding 
a  balance  between  fighting  terrorism  and  extremism, 
on the one hand, while ensuring individual rights and 
freedoms, on the other. Our efforts to promote interfaith 
dialogue and religious tolerance complement the work 
of  other  countries  in  the  context  of  the  International 
Decade for the Rapprochement of Cultures 2013-2022, 
initiated by Kazakhstan.
the 
The  Manifesto  underlines 
importance  of 
such  principles  as  shared  responsibility  for  peace 
and  security,  mutual  respect  and  non-interference. 
Neglecting  those  principles  has  contributed  to  the 
destruction  of  the  sovereignty  and  statehood  of  some 
States and the current humanitarian crisis triggered by 
unprecedented flows of refugees and migrants.
Kazakhstan is committed to strengthening United 
Nations  peacekeeping  capabilities,  which  are  one  of 
the  pillars  of  the  United  Nations.  My  country  signed 
the  London  communiqué  of 
the  United  Nations 
Peacekeeping  Defence  Ministerial  Meeting  and 
confirmed  its  commitment  to  deploy  a  full  unit  with 
United Nations peacekeeping operations.
We  welcome 
the  establishment  of 
the  new 
Peacekeeping  Capability  Readiness  System  and  fully 
endorse the creation of the Department of Peacekeeping 
Operations Strategic Force Generation and Capability 
Planning  Cell.  We  also  commend  the  comprehensive 
review  of  peacekeeping  operations  by  the  High-level 
Independent  Panel  on  Peace  Operations  and  welcome 
is 
the  Secretary-General’s 
response.  Kazakhstan 
16-29565
7/25
A/71/PV.16 
22/09/2016
committed to ensuring that peacekeeping is effective. 
It has also contributed military personnel to the United 
Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara 
and the United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire.
This year Kazakhstan is celebrating its twenty-fifth 
anniversary of independence. I remember that back in 
1991  some  observers  doubted  Kazakhstan’s  ability  to 
survive  as  a  sovereign  nation,  given  its  multi-ethnic, 
religiously  diverse  population,  unbalanced  economy 
and  huge  material  and  moral  burden  in  the  form  of  a 
military  infrastructure  and  a  nuclear  arsenal.  That 
legacy  was  a  challenge  that  we  managed  to  turn  into 
an opportunity. Over the past quarter of a century we 
have completed a journey from a non-existing country 
on the political map, to a stable middle-income nation 
and respected member of the international community. 
We  consider  our  election  to  the  Security  Council 
as  international  recognition  of  our  sound  and  mature 
foreign  policy  and  a  deserved  achievement  of  our 
independence.  Indeed,  the  two-year  tenure  on  the 
Security Council is a responsibility that we will shoulder 
with the utmost seriousness and pride. We will strive to 
contribute to the Council’s work in the maintenance of 
international peace and security, preventive diplomacy, 
conflict  settlement  and  post-conflict  rehabilitation, 
peacekeeping,  human  rights,  gender  equality  and 
international law. Central Asia will be represented on 
the  Council  for  the  first  time  in  its  history,  and  our 
membership  is  a  chance  to  draw  the  attention  of  the 
Security Council to regional security issues. Our grand 
idea is to make the region a zone of peace, cooperation 
and security.
In  that  context,  we  believe  that  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan is essential to the security and stability of 
Central Asia. We have a genuine interest in promoting 
a  political  settlement  and  furthering  the  social  and 
economic  development  of  that  country.  Kazakhstan 
is investing more than $50 million to educate Afghan 
students,  build  schools  and  hospitals  and  provide 
humanitarian  assistance.  We  pledged  to  provide  a 
further $2 million to support the Afghan army. Together 
with  Japan  and  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme,  we  are  helping  to  improve  the  nation’s 
civil-service  capacity,  with  a  special  emphasis  on 
gender equality.
We  are  keen,  both  within  the  Security  Council 
and  General  Assembly,  to  promote  our  President’s 
idea  about  creating  a  global  anti-terrorism  coalition 
or  network.  This  is  designed  to  strengthen  and 
capitalize on synergies in the various counter-terrorism 
initiatives.  Specifically,  we  are  focusing  on  making 
all 19 counter-terrorism conventions universal and on 
developing  a  unified  list  of  terrorist  organizations,  a 
unified  extradition  mechanism  and  a  comprehensive 
legally  binding  international  terrorism  convention. 
Kazakhstan is actively engaged in the implementation 
of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism 
Strategy and the Secretary-General’s Plan of Action to 
Prevent Violent Extremism.
When we take up our responsibilities in the Security 
Council  next  year,  we  will  be  ready  to  facilitate  the 
further reintegration of Iran in political and economic 
areas.  Our  record  of  promoting  a  mutually  beneficial 
deal on the Iranian nuclear programme is well known. 
My country helped break the deadlock on the Iranian 
programme  by  supporting  a  constructive  dialogue 
among  stakeholders  and  hosting 
two  rounds  of 
multilateral  talks  in  Kazakhstan.  In  December  2015, 
Kazakhstan  provided  natural  uranium  to  Iran  as  part 
of  an  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency-monitored 
transaction, in support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan 
of  Action.  It  is  our  intention  to  reinvest  the  political 
dividends we obtained to make further progress in this 
direction.
We hope that our regional expertise, together with 
our experience derived from chairing various regional 
bodies  —  including  the  Organization  for  Security 
and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  the  Organization  of 
Islamic Cooperation (OIC), the Shanghai Cooperation 
Organization  and  the  Conference  on  Interaction  and 
Confidence-building  Measures  in  Asia  —  will  be  an 
asset in addressing vital issues of peace and security on 
the Security Council agenda.
Kazakhstan  is  firmly  committed  to  being  part  of 
the  solution  to  the  global  issue  of  sustainability  and 
climate  change.  Implementing  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change, which we pledge to ratify well before 
the  end  of  2016,  are  vitally  important.  Kazakhstan 
is  therefore  proud  to  host  in  Astana  the  international 
exhibition  EXPO-2017  on  the  theme  “Energy  of 
the  Future”,  which  will  showcase  renewable  energy 
sources relevant for both the developed and developing 
world. During EXPO-2017, we will also host the first-
ever  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  summit  on 
science and technology, a unique gathering designed to 
promote the modernization of the Islamic world.
8/25 
16-29565
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.16
With a view to promoting Sustainable Development 
Goal (SDG) 7 — on affordable and clean energy — we 
are working with the relevant United Nations agencies 
and research institutions to establish, under the auspices 
of  the  United  Nations,  an  international  centre  for  the 
development  of  green  technologies  and  investment 
projects,  as  part  of  the  EXPO-2017  legacy.  We  will 
continue  to  promote  water,  food  and  energy  security 
in order to build a safer and more prosperous regional 
neighbourhood.  As  part  of  our  commitment  to  SDG 
2,  relating  to  ending  hunger,  Kazakhstan  hosted  in  a 
meeting in April of the OIC agriculture ministers and 
the  inaugural  session  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the 
Islamic Organization for Food Security, headquartered 
in Astana.
Within Central Asia, Kazakhstan strives to increase 
regional  connectivity  by  giving  priority  to  transport 
infrastructure  projects  and  developing  regional  trade 
and  economic  integration.  I  would  like  to  stress  that 
commitment to sustainable development is an integral 
part of our domestic agenda. Our national development 
strategies and programmes are directly aligned with the 
Sustainable Development Goals. Moreover, my country 
pursues a set of modernization reforms aimed at better, 
more efficient and transparent governance, rule of law, 
and civil service. The reforms focus on people-oriented 
Government and the creation of a middle-class society.
Kazakhstan  remains  committed  to  cooperating 
actively with United Nations human rights mechanisms 
and  pays  special  attention  to  gender  equality  and  the 
empowerment  of  women.  By  the  end  of  the  year,  we 
will  have  adopted  a  new  2030  national  strategy  for 
gender equality.
to 
focus  on 
In  order  to  achieve  the  objectives  of  peace  and 
to  host  a 
development,  Kazakhstan  has  offered 
United  Nations  regional  hub  in  Almaty,  our  southern 
capital, 
sustainable  development, 
humanitarian  assistance,  disaster-risk  reduction  and 
resilience-building.  We  are  aiming  to  complete  the 
technical stages of this process within the next two years. 
Another United Nations regional hub, to promote civil 
service excellence, is already operational in Astana. The 
Central Asian Regional Information and Coordination 
Centre plays an important role in streamlining regional 
efforts to counter drug trafficking.
We  are  convinced  that,  as  the  leading  global 
institution, the United Nations needs stewardship of the 
highest quality, integrity, strength and moral authority. 
We  are  closely  following  the  deliberations  of  the 
Security Council on the selection of a new Secretary-
General  and  hope  that  this  individual  will  meet  the 
highest expectations of all Member States. We express 
our  deepest  heartfelt  gratitude  to  His  Excellency 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  dedication, 
integrity and professionalism.
to 
improve 
in  order 
to  new  realities 
Modern  challenges  require  that  the  Organization 
adapt 
its 
effectiveness  in  dealing  with  international  problems, 
preventing threats and overcoming challenges. United 
Nations  reform  should  be  carried  out  in  accordance 
with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the 
United  Nations,  on  the  basis  of  consensus  and  in  the 
interests of all Member States.
As a trusted, objective and steadfast partner of the 
United Nations and all Member States, Kazakhstan will 
forge ahead with resolute determination in the pursuit of 
global peace and security. Undaunted, but approaching 
the task with healthy pragmatism, we will join others in 
stepping forward with new hope and optimism.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Bruno Eduardo Rodríguez 
Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic 
of Cuba.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
I would like to begin by expressing our gratitude to the 
President and to the Secretary-General for their notable 
efforts in carrying out their mandates.
The statistics could not be more eloquent — 80 per 
cent  of  the  world’s  population  owns  only  6  per  cent 
of  the  wealth,  while  the  wealthiest  1  per  cent  enjoys 
half of the world’s patrimony. No less than 795 million 
people suffer from chronic hunger, and 18,000 children 
die  every  day  due  to  poverty.  More  than  660  million 
people  consume  non-potable  water,  and  780  million 
adults and 103 million young people are illiterate. It is 
quite likely that they have never heard of the Millenium 
Development Goals, but if they had they would scarcely 
believe  in  the  new  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs). 
The gap between our deliberations and the realities 
of  our  peoples  is  persistent.  The  lack  of  political 
will  of  industrialized  countries  is  clear.  We  see  the 
perpetuation  of  the  irrational  patterns  of  capitalist 
production and consumption that lead to the degradation 
of  living  conditions  on  our  planet.  The  enormous 
16-29565
9/25
A/71/PV.16 
22/09/2016
conventional  and  nuclear  stockpiles  and  the  annual 
military  expenditures  of  $1.7  trillion  contradict  those 
who claim that we lack the resources to end poverty and 
underdevelopment.
However,  there  are  many  arguments  that  justify 
the  urgency  of  building  a  new  international  financial 
architecture. In developed countries, welfare societies 
are disappearing, political systems are in crisis, pockets 
of poverty are expanding, brutal neoliberal adjustment 
programmes  are  used  against  workers,  young  people 
and  migrants,  and  dark  and  dangerous  neo-fascist 
forces gain strength.
The  philosophy  of  plundering  underpins  NATO 
countries’ military interventions and non-conventional 
wars against sovereign States as they seek to overthrow 
Governments  and  appropriate  natural  resources.  The 
imposition  of  unilateral  coercive  measures  and  the 
use  of  financial,  legal,  cultural  and  media  tools  to 
destabilize Governments has become our daily bread. 
The  militarization  and  aggressive  use  of  cyberspace, 
the  violation  of  the  human  rights  of  hundreds  of 
millions  of  people,  and  the  waves  of  refugees  driven 
by underdevelopment and NATO interventions towards 
Europe are evidence of the cruelty, oppressive nature, 
inefficiency  and  unsustainability  of 
the  current 
international  order,  without  there  being  a  single 
response  based  on  respect  for  human  rights  and  the 
dignity of persons or aiming at resolving the root causes 
of the problems. 
The year 2015 was also one of the worst in terms 
of climate change, with mounting global temperatures, 
the melting of the polar ice caps, the rise in sea levels 
and  an  increase  in  greenhouse-gas  emissions.  Under 
these  circumstances,  we  reiterate  our  solidarity  with 
the  small  island  developing  States,  especially  in  the 
Caribbean,  which  are  the  most  deeply  affected  by 
climate change and for which we demand fair, special 
and differential treatment. 
While  we  all  expect  to  see  some  progress  in  the 
fulfilment by industrialized countries of the obligations 
entered into under the ambiguous Paris Agreement on 
Climate  Change,  only  tangible  data  on  financing  and 
transfers  of  technology  to  developing  countries  can  
justify  hopes  for  the  survival  of  the  human  species. 
However,  capitalism  will  never  be  historically  or 
environmentally sustainable. 
Peace  and  development  are  the  raison  d’être  of 
the United Nations. The creation of a culture of peace 
and justice as the basis of a new international order is 
an urgent and imperative need for the human species. 
Any  attempt  to  prolong  the  existence  of  a  unipolar 
world through war, domination or hegemony would be 
suicidal. The observance of the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  international  law  are  indispensable  for 
peaceful coexistence among States. 
The  United  Nations  must  be  defended  from 
unilateralism. At the same time, it needs to be reformed 
into a more democratic Organization, one that is closer 
to  the  problems,  needs  and  aspirations  of  people.  It 
must  be  capable  of  leading  the  international  system 
towards peace, sustainable development and respect for 
all human rights for everyone.
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  in  both  its 
composition  and  its  working  methods,  is  a  task  that 
should not be postponed any longer. The strengthening 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  restoration  of  the 
functions  that  were  usurped  by  the  Security  Council 
should  guide  our  search  for  a  more  democratic  and 
efficient Organization.
It is imperative to find a just and lasting solution 
to  the  Middle  East  conflict,  inexorably  based  on  the 
exercise of the inalienable right of the Palestinian people 
to build its own State within the pre-1967 borders, with 
East Jerusalem as its capital. 
The  situation  of  the  Western  Sahara  requires 
an  effort  pursuant  to  the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions  to  guarantee  the  self-determination  of  the 
Sahrawi people and respect for their legitimate right to 
live in peace in their territory. 
Once  again,  we  reiterate  our  confidence  that  the 
people  of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  will  be  able  to 
resolve their differences on their own when the foreign 
intervention aimed at promoting regime change ceases. 
NATO’s attempts to expand its presence closer to 
Russia’s borders and the deployment of its anti-missile 
systems are an incentive to the arms race and a threat to 
international peace and security. Similarly, we express 
our  opposition  to  the  unjust  and  unilateral  sanctions 
imposed  against  the  Russian  people  that  are  also 
harmful to Europe. 
Cuba, which has been the victim of State terrorism, 
reiterates  its  strong  condemnation  of  all  forms  and 
manifestations of terrorism.
10/25 
16-29565
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.16
The  Proclamation  of  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean as a Zone of Peace, signed in Havana by the 
Heads of State and Government of our region in January 
2014,  during  the  third  Summit  of  the  Community  of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States,  establishes 
principles  and  rules  for  coexistence,  cooperation 
and  respect  among  States  that  are  indispensable  for 
the  realization  of  the  right  to  peace  and  applicable  to 
relations within our America and its relations with the 
hemisphere and the world.
We welcome the historic General Agreement for the 
Termination of the Conflict and the Construction of a 
Stable and Lasting Peace, which was reached in Havana 
on 24 August. We will do our best, always at the request 
of the parties, to support its implementation.
We  will  continue  to  support  the  Government  and 
the  people  of  Venezuela,  the  civic-military  union 
and  Constitutional  President  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros 
in  defence  of  its  sovereignty  and  self-determination 
against the imperialist and oligarchic interference that 
is  attempting  to  destroy  the  Bolivarian  and  Chavista 
revolution  to  take  over  Venezuela’s  oil  reserves  and 
reverse  the  enormous  social  achievements  that  have 
been attained.
We  strongly  condemn 
the  parliamentary  and 
judicial  coup  d’état  perpetrated  in  Brazil  against 
President  Dilma  Rousseff  and  express  our  solidarity 
with her, the Brazilian people, the Workers’ Party and 
former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. 
We reiterate our conviction that the Puerto Rican 
people deserve to be free and independent, after more 
than a century under colonial rule.
We  will  not  renounce  any  of  our  revolutionary 
the  defence  of 
and  anti-imperialist  principles, 
independence,  social  justice  and  peoples’  rights,  nor 
our  commitment  to  cooperate  with  those  in  greatest 
need.  Cuban  cooperation  workers,  who  work  on  all 
continents,  will  continue  to  make  their  contribution, 
including the 46,000 persons who are currently working 
in 61 countries fighting for the life and health of human 
beings. 
Professional 
The  Cuban  Medical 
Parole 
Programme,  applied  by  the  United  States  of  America 
to  pursue  the  political  objective  of  impeding  Cuba’s 
medical cooperation and deprive the recipient countries 
and  Cuba  of  valuable  and  highly  qualified  human 
resources, is a shameful obstacle.
Just  over  a  year  has  elapsed  since  the  restoration 
of  diplomatic  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States and the reopening of their respective Embassies. 
Some  progress  has  been  achieved  in  our  bilateral 
relations, particularly in diplomatic relations, dialogue 
and  cooperation  in  areas  of  common  interest,  as 
evidenced  by  high-level  visits,  including  a  visit  by 
President Obama, and the dozen of agreements signed 
on subjects that could render benefits to both countries 
and the entire hemisphere. However, the fact is that the 
blockade remains in force. It continues to cause serious 
damage and hardship for the Cuban people and hampers 
the functioning of our economy and our relations with 
other countries.
Executive  measures  adopted  by  the  Government 
of  the  United  States,  although  positive,  are  still 
insufficient.  There  are  many  recent  examples  of  the 
economic, commercial and financial damage caused by 
the blockade to Cuba and to third countries. As long as 
this  continues  to  happen,  we  will  continue  to  present 
the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”  for 
consideration by the Assembly.
We  reiterate  the  readiness  of  the  Government  of 
Cuba to continue developing a respectful dialogue with 
the  Government  of  the  United  States,  while  knowing 
that we still have a long way to go if we are to normalize 
our relations, which means building a model of bilateral 
relations that is a totally new in terms of our common 
history  that  can  never  be  forgotten.  For  this  to  be 
possible some day, it will be essential for the blockade 
to be lifted. In addition, the territory illegally occupied 
by the United States Naval Base at Guantánamo, against 
the will of Cuba, must be returned to us.
The Cuban people, even amid the adverse conditions 
imposed by the current international scenario and the 
persistence of the economic, commercial and financial 
blockade  imposed  by  the  United  States,  continues  to 
be involved in updating the economic and social model 
that it has decided to implement in a fully sovereign way 
in  order  to  build  an  independent,  sovereign,  socialist, 
prosperous and sustainable nation.
16-29565
11/25
A/71/PV.16 
22/09/2016
Address by Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Malta
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Malta.
Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Joseph 
Muscat, Prime Minister of the Republic of Malta, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Muscat  (Malta):  Allow  me  to  join  my 
colleagues in expressing my country’s deepest gratitude 
and  appreciation  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for his sterling work.
This seventy-first session of the General Assembly 
is  marked  primarily  by  the  high-level  meeting  on 
addressing large movements of refugees and migrants. 
The outcome document of this meeting, the New York 
Declaration for Refugees and Migrants (resolution 71/1), 
will  spur  us  to  work  further  to  address  the  enormous 
movement  of  people,  the  likes  of  which  we  have  not 
seen since the Second World War.
Last year, this gathering considered that migration 
had  reached  crisis  levels.  Today,  we  are  increasingly 
realizing that this phenomenon is set to become a new 
normal that needs to be managed. Despite the difficult 
debates,  discussions,  stumbling  blocks  and  widely 
divergent  viewpoints,  it  is  encouraging  to  see  how 
far  we  have  come  and  how  much  we  have  found  that 
truly unites us, underpinned by the most fundamental 
principles of saving lives and upholding human dignity. 
Nevertheless, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. 
I  must  confess  I  am  still  concerned  that  all  the  soft 
words we have heard will be undermined by hard facts. 
Despite this, we owe it to everyone to give it a try. 
We need to respond to this challenge, not with fear, 
not with dread, not by enclosing ourselves within walls, 
but  with  tenacity,  conviction  and  compassion.  This  is 
what  drives  my  country,  time  and  again,  to  push  for 
migration  to  be  high  on  our  agenda.  Together  with 
our European partners, and sometimes on our own, or 
almost,  Malta  has  been  working  tirelessly  to  address 
the common concerns and challenges being presented. 
In  that  respect,  our  international  efforts  to  address 
migrant  smuggling  and  human  trafficking  through 
measures  aimed  at  disrupting  the  business  models  of 
criminals,  who  harbour  a  total  disregard  for  human 
life  and  profit  from  other  people’s  tragedies,  are  key. 
Though commendable, these efforts need to be stepped 
up.  Information-sharing,  improved  implementation  of 
national  enforcement  policies  and  stronger  penalties 
to  punish  smugglers  are  essential  dimensions  of  an 
effective response to this challenge.
I believe people-smugglers are in the same category 
as the worst type of criminals and must be treated as 
such.  We  should  seriously  consider  a  structure  where 
traffickers are brought to justice before an international 
tribunal in order to drive home the message that we are 
looking at this tragedy not only from the humanitarian 
angle, which is appropriate, but also from the security 
perspective, and that profiting from human trafficking 
does not pay.
Malta  believes  that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a 
unilateral  solution  to  migration.  A  global  perspective 
is required. Closer cooperation among the countries of 
origin, transit and destination is essential and needed. 
This was the focus of the Valletta summit on migration, 
which we were proud to have host lasted November in 
Malta, when European and African leaders met to see 
what they can do together and for one another. 
Having just participated in the General Assembly 
high-level  summit,  I  am  immensely  pleased  and 
encouraged to see that the New York Declaration and 
the  spirit  of  the  Valletta  summit  live  on,  at  least  in 
words  and  in  intentions.  Unfortunately,  most  follow-
up actions still need to be implemented. As I have said 
previously,  steps  need  to  be  taken  now,  especially  by 
those  countries  that  bear  the  moral  responsibility  for 
mass movements, either through their actions or their 
inaction.
The Somali-British poet Warsan Shire writes in her 
poem entitled “Home” that 
“no  one  puts  their  children  in  a  boat  unless  the 
water is safer than the land”. 
My country’s vision is for a safe Mediterranean region 
that offers peace, wealth, stability and work.
The situation in the Middle East has a huge bearing 
on that of our region and of the entire world. It pains me 
to dwell on the fact that we are still absolutely nowhere 
near a solution in the context of the Middle East peace 
process.  Malta  is  deeply  concerned  about  the  lack  of 
progress towards a just and lasting peace in the region. 
12/25 
16-29565
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.16
The humanitarian situation in Gaza remains dire. 
We call on all parties to change the political, security 
and  economic  structures,  including  the  end  of  the 
closure  and  a  full  opening  of  the  crossing  points  to 
assist Palestinians in Gaza in rebuilding their lives. On 
the other hand, Malta continues to believe that the State 
of  Israel’s  legitimate  right  to  exist  must  not  be  called 
into question. We believe that Israelis have the right to 
live in peace within secure borders. With a clear view 
on the rights of the Israelis and Palestinians, my country 
continues  to  back  initiatives  aimed  at  rekindling  the 
prospects  for  peace  talks  and  for  keeping  the  two-
State  solution  alive.  But  in  doing  so  we  acknowledge 
that  there  is  a  need  to  create  the  right  conditions  for 
rebuilding trust as a means of bringing the two parties 
back to the negotiating table. To achieve this, both sides 
must take bold steps and refrain from all actions that 
undermine  progress  in  the  resumed  peace  talks.  We 
support  international  efforts  aimed  at  creating  new 
dynamics  around  the  peace  process  that  would  build 
upon other efforts towards a lasting solution, including 
the Arab Peace Initiative and the French initiative. We 
hope that there will be the right traction to create the 
conditions for a lasting and durable solution.
In our most immediate neighbourhood, Malta has 
supported, and will continue to support, its neighbour 
Tunisia towards stability and democracy. Despite facing 
serious  challenges,  Tunisia  is  gradually  emerging  as 
the  first,  albeit  fragile,  Arab  democracy.  But  for  it  to 
succeed, it is important that the international community 
not abandon Tunisia at this critical juncture. 
Yet while Tunisia offers hope, the overall picture in 
Libya continues to be bleak. I am afraid that I am one 
of  the  few  speakers  to  have  mentioned  Libya.  I  must 
note the important, incremental positive developments. 
We  have  managed  to  come  a  considerable  way  since 
last December, and Malta commends and continues to 
support  the  hard  work  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Secretary-General’s Special Representatives, including 
their  unrelenting  efforts  and  perseverance  to  improve 
the political setting for a stable and democratic Libya. 
We also welcome the recent adoption of resolution 2298 
(2016),  allowing  for  the  destruction  of  the  chemical 
weapons present in the country. That is a commendable 
effort aimed at reducing the risk of these weapons fall 
ing into the hands of extremists.
However,  despite 
the  situation 
remains  fragile.  The  Libyan  population  needs  a 
concretely  functioning  Government  that  addresses 
this  progress, 
their  basic  needs  —  proper  medication,  food  security 
and education. As neighbours, we stand by the Libyan 
people’s efforts to transform their country into a safe, 
democratic and unified State, with a reconciled people, 
where State authority and the rule of law are restored. I 
am certain that this is the dream of our Libyan friends 
themselves. We reiterate the need to remain supportive 
of the Libyan Peace Accord and the Presidency Council 
and to respect Libyan sovereignty and take into account 
Libyan ownership.
This  has  been  a  year  of  atrocious  terrorist  acts 
against  innocent  victims.  Bystanders  —  men,  women 
and  children  —  have  been  killed  while  going  about 
their daily lives, going to work, taking a stroll, eating 
with family and praying. This year has seen a rise in 
the  spread  of  a  culture  of  violence  and  death  that  is 
spanning continents and hurting people of every gender, 
race and creed. No religion or belief in discrimination 
can ever be a defensible cause for maiming, terrorizing 
or killing others.
A global society that is truly determined to counter 
all  facets  of  terrorism  must  rise  above  prescriptive 
pronouncements and take action. In that regard, Malta 
believes that the United Nations is central to the global 
fight  against  terrorism.  As  host  to  the  International 
Institute for Justice and the Rule of Law, Malta believes 
that the most effective way to counter terrorism is by 
empowering  the  rule  of  law  and  strengthening  the 
judiciary  in  States  where  terrorist  activity  is  gaining 
ground. This is what this centre is doing, without much 
fanfare, each and every day.
All  of 
these  aspects  are  priority  areas  for 
Malta,  which  is  currently  Chair-in-Office  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Nations  and  is  looking  forward  to 
holding the presidency of the Council of the European 
Union  during  the  first  half  of  next  year.  As  we  near 
this milestone in our political history, Malta continues 
to successfully broaden its foreign-policy focus. While 
our  neighbourhood  will  naturally  remain  among  the 
leading  priorities  for  the  months  and  years  to  come, 
our  country  seeks  to  intensify  its  outreach  to  other 
regions and countries that present potential for further 
exchanges. The overriding driving force of our global 
perspective  is  oriented  towards  dialogue  and  mutual 
understanding  —  a  vocation  to  which  Malta  has 
genuinely adhered for decades.
As  I  have  suggested  previously,  Malta  is  deeply 
to  Euro-Mediterranean  dialogue  and 
committed 
16-29565
13/25
A/71/PV.16 
22/09/2016
inspired  by  our 
cooperation, 
long-lasting  policy, 
forged  by  former  Prime  Minister  Dom  Mintoff, 
based on the principle that there can be no peace and 
security  in  Europe  without  peace  and  security  in  the 
Mediterranean. We believe that this principle was never 
more  true  than  today  and  that  it  can  be  broadened  to 
say that there can be no peace and security, not just in 
Europe but in the world, without peace and security in 
the Mediterranean. This vision will be a primary driving 
force behind Malta’s presidency of the Council of the 
European  Union.  Countries  bordering  the  southern 
Mediterranean  shores  are  facing  serious  challenges, 
ranging  from  conflict  to  terrorism  to  extremism  and 
radicalization. These are all challenges that cannot be 
addressed  by  individual  countries  and  which  require 
concerted resolve and action.
Apart  from  ensuring  ownership  of  this  cause  by 
all stakeholders in the region, Malta will also promote 
the  fostering  of  better  synergies  among  regional 
Mediterranean mechanisms — including the Five+Five, 
the  Union  for  the  Mediterranean  and  the  Anna 
Lindh  Foundation  —  to  address  threats  and  achieve 
shared  goals.  Furthermore,  the  Maltese  presidency 
of  the  European  Council  will  endeavour  to  continue 
strengthening relations with the League of Arab States 
with the aim of consolidating institutions and achieving 
better  relations.  We  will  also  continue  to  actively 
support  the  revitalization  of  relations  with  the  Gulf 
States and the Gulf Cooperation Council, which would 
also serve as another opportunity to step up multilevel 
regional cooperation with the European Union.
Over  the  past  70  years,  the  United  Nations  has 
strived  to  work  together  to  achieve  peace,  security, 
development and human rights. In spite of the atrocities 
we  have  witnessed  in  past  years,  we  must  continue 
to  hold  onto  these  principles.  We  must  not  allow  fear 
to  be  the  driving,  and  at  times  paralysing,  force.  We 
must  continue  to  keep  in  mind  the  larger  picture  and 
recognize  that  our  diversity  is  our  strength,  that  to 
understand each other fortifies our progress and that one 
people’s concerns are collectively our concerns. Malta 
will  continue  to  play  its  part  within  the  Organization 
to contribute, support and advance its initiatives and to 
foster new ones for the common good.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Malta for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta, was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Agapito Mba Mokuy, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of 
the Republic of Equatorial Guinea. 
Mr.  Mba  Mokuy  (Equatorial  Guinea)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): In taking the floor at the General Assembly 
on  behalf  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Obiang  Nguema 
Mbasogo,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial 
Guinea, I would like first to congratulate His Excellency 
Mr. Peter Thomson for his fitting election as President 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-first session. I 
wish him every success as he carries out his functions. 
I  also  extend  my  congratulations  to  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  the  outgoing  President,  for 
all  the  innovations  introduced  to  the  Assembly  and 
for  his  work  in  general.  In  particular,  I  would  like  to 
congratulate His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, who is 
attending the general debate of the General Assembly 
for the last time as Secretary-General. I thank him for 
his contribution to conflict resolution in the world and 
his 10 years of service to humankind. I wish him every 
success in his future endeavours.
Today  the  world  is  witnessing  an  overwhelming 
and  unrelenting  wave  of  migrants  fleeing  conflict 
areas, particularly in Iraq and Syria — as well as from 
Africa to Europe — trying to find a safe and quiet place 
to live. Terrorism continues to leave innocent victims 
in  its  wake  in  every  region,  thereby  constituting 
a  real  threat  to  the  well-being  and  development  of 
humankind.  Political  instability  is  endangering  the 
lives of thousands of human beings in many countries. 
The  economic  crisis  is  becoming  increasingly  worse 
and  more  unpredictable,  thus  negatively  affecting 
the  growth  and  social  and  economic  development  of 
our countries. The crisis is having particularly strong 
impacts on developing countries, where there are still 
communities that suffer from hunger, malnutrition and 
extreme poverty. In a world as complicated and complex 
as ours is today, the role of the United Nations is more 
essential than ever. 
Therefore,  united,  we  must  bring  about  true 
democracy  within  our  Organization.  United,  we  must 
protect our planet for the sake of our offspring. United, 
we must respect and help one another. United, we must 
give  priority  to  human  values,  not  only  in  terms  of 
respect of human rights but also in terms of respect for 
14/25 
16-29565
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.16
the  rights  of  humankind.  As  such,  we  will  be  able  to 
strengthen our United Nations and ensure a better future 
for  generations  to  come.  As  policymakers  we  run  the 
risk of incurring our collective historical condemnation 
if our ambition and sense of superiority continue to lead 
us down the path of destroying our own human species, 
polluting our planet and shattering the foundations of 
peaceful  coexistence,  to  which  future  generations  are 
entitled.
By 2030, the States Members of the United Nations 
should have transformed the lives of all and conserved 
our  planet.  That  is  the  goal  and  commitment  that  the 
leaders of our Organization undertook at the seventieth 
session of the General Assembly in September 2015 by 
adopting  the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and 
169 targets. Indeed, there is an urgent need to achieve 
the Goals, each and every one of which is necessary and 
essential for the development of a decent life for every 
human being.
The  Common  African  Position  on 
the  post-
2015  development  agenda  has  been  very  useful  in 
implementing  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  It 
identifies substantive issues of importance for Africa, 
which were the basis of a consensus on the priorities, 
concerns  and  strategies  of  Africa  that  was  reflected 
in the outcome of the negotiation process of the 2030 
Agenda.
With  regard  to  progress  made  in  the  Republic 
of  Equatorial  Guinea,  I  am  pleased  to  inform  the 
Assembly that, in keeping with its ambition to become 
an  emerging  country  by  2020,  the  Government  of 
Equatorial Guinea has fully integrated the Sustainable 
Development Goals into its Horizon 2020 programme. 
With the programme, the Government is giving priority 
to  its  economic  and  social  transformation  through 
developing human capital and inclusive and sustainable 
growth.  In  recent  years,  important  progress  has  been 
made in all sectors.
In 
the  health-care  sector, 
the  World  Health 
Organization  has  qualified  Equatorial  Guinea  as  one 
of  the  few  countries  in  the  region  that  has  been  able 
to  considerably  reduce  the  risks  leading  to  maternal 
and infant mortality during pregnancy and childbirth, 
thanks to the practice of preventive medicine and free 
vaccinations. Children, pregnant women and the elderly 
receive free health services and equal access to drugs.
In  the  economic  arena,  Equatorial  Guinea  is 
focusing on diversifying its productive sector, thereby 
creating  jobs  for  youth  in  such  areas  as  industrial 
fishing,  agriculture  and  hydrocarbon  exports,  all  of 
which is aimed at improving the quality of life of the 
people. Through a programme of water, electricity and 
health care for all, citizens throughout the country have 
access to drinking water, electricity and health services.
At  the  international  level,  we  would  point  out 
the  Government  of  Equatorial  Guinea’s  donations  to 
the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations to fight hunger on the African continent and its 
donations to the World Health Organization to fight the 
Ebola pandemic and improve the health of the victims 
in the most affected countries.
As the General Assembly can see, although much 
remains  to  be  done,  the  Government  of  Equatorial 
Guinea  has  made  great  strides  in  achieving  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  of  the  2030  Agenda, 
in  part  thanks  to  the  good  use  of  resources  from  the 
hydrocarbons  sector,  which  is  the  main  source  of 
income for its economy.
tandem  with 
the 
Development  Goals,  we  note  that  many  citizens  of 
countries  in  our  Organization  continue  to  live  in 
insecurity and fear and under threat. The refugee crisis 
requires  a  new  approach.  We  value  and  commend 
the  decision  adopted  by  the  Governments  of  several 
Western African and other countries to receive and help 
the refugees start a new life.
implementation  of 
In 
the 
As  the  Assembly  will  recall,  on  3  September 
2015,  the  photos  of  young  Aylan  Kurdi,  only  3  years 
old,  who  died  on  the  sands  of  a  Turkish  beach  after 
drowning — may God rest his soul — moved us all and 
appealed to our deepest human feelings. A 13-year-old 
Syrian immigrant also appealed to us when he appeared 
before  the  microphones  of  the  international  press  and 
said, 
“Please help the Syrians. We do not want to stay in 
Europe. Stop the war in Syria, and you will not see 
us here”. 
We believe that the statement made by the young Syrian 
must  give  us  new  direction  in  our  efforts  towards 
confronting the migration crisis that we are experiencing 
today. We recognize that the policy of partnering with 
one of the belligerent parties and supplying them with 
weapons can only lead to death, suffering, destruction 
and  the  attendant  migrant  and  refugee  crisis.  That 
policy has caused many years of suffering in so many 
16-29565
15/25
A/71/PV.16 
22/09/2016
countries that were once stable and peaceful models of 
coexistence but are now experiencing the worst human 
tragedy in their history.
We must again choose the path of dialogue, rather 
than  that  of  weapons  procurement.  We  must  put  an 
end  to  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons.  We  must 
resolve conflicts by other means and promote a culture 
of peace, not of violent confrontation. When any person 
suffers, it concerns us all. When one nation is at war, 
we are all at war and there is no peace.
As  President  John  F.  Kennedy  stated  in  his 
commencement  speech  at  American  University,  on 
10 June 1963, 
“[G]enuine peace [is] the kind of peace that makes 
life on earth worth living — the kind that enables 
man and nations to grow and to hope and to build 
a better life for their children ... not merely peace 
for  [some]  but  peace  for  all  men  and  women,  not 
merely peace in our time but peace for all time ...
“For, in the final analysis, our most basic common 
link is that we all inhabit this planet. We all breathe 
the same air. We all cherish our children’s future. 
And we are all mortal.” 
I am the representative of a country that aspires to 
a seat in the Security Council within two years. Since 
our accession to national independence on 12 October 
1968, almost 48 years ago, the Republic of Equatorial 
Guinea has not yet had the privilege of membership of 
the Security Council. Duly endorsed by the Summit of 
Heads of State and Government of the African Union, 
held in Johannesburg in July 2015, our country became, 
for  the  first  time,  a  candidate  for  non-permanent 
membership of the Security Council for the 2018-2019 
term. The election will be held in June 2017. From this 
rostrum, the Government of the Republic of Equatorial 
Guinea  requests  the  determined  support  of  all  States 
Members of the United Nations for our candidacy. The 
Government of Equatorial Guinea pledges to live up to 
the task and to work for a more just, more humane and 
more peaceful world.
to  reforms 
With  respect 
that  are  absolutely 
necessary  for  the  United  Nations,  we  regret  to  note 
that, 71 years after the United Nations was established, 
Africa  continues  to  lack  permanent  representation  at 
the highest level of the Organization. Seventy-one years 
later, Africa continues to be denied the right to a voice, 
vote and veto among the group of permanent members 
of the Security Council. That is not fair for a continent 
that  comprises  54  Member  States,  a  population  of 
1.1  billion  people  and  whose  issues  constitute  the 
majority of the topics discussed in the Council.
I  cannot  conclude  without  congratulating,  once 
again, the Government of the United States of America 
for the major step taken in restoring dialogue with the 
Republic of Cuba. We therefore call on the Government 
and  the  people  of  the  United  States  of  America  to 
finally  and  definitively  lift  the  embargo  against  the 
Cuban people, to enable that country to have the means 
to  fully  participate  in  the  national  and  multinational 
implementation  of  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.
The foregoing is the message entrusted to me by His 
Excellency  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo  for  delivery  to 
the General Assembly, to which I offer my best wishes 
for success in its work to achieve a more peaceful, more 
humane and more democratic world. May God bless the 
Republic of Equatorial Guinea and may God bless the 
United Nations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Eladio  Ramón  Loizaga 
Lezcano, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic 
of Paraguay.
Mr.  Loizaga  Lezcano  (Paraguay)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish):  On  behalf  of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay, 
I  congratulate  Ambassador  Peter  Thomson  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  this 
session. I wish him every success and assure him of my 
delegation’s support. 
We  also  acknowledge  Ambassador  Mogens 
Lykketoft,  who  helped  keep 
the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  at  the  heart  of  our 
deliberations  and  initiated,  after  70  years,  a  ground-
breaking  process  of  openness  and  transparency  in 
electing the next Secretary-General, which will be an 
important milestone in the history our Organization.
I also take the opportunity, on behalf of President 
Horacio  Manuel  Cartes  Jara,  to  commend  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  tireless  work  during 
the  past  10  years,  his  humanity  and  his  commitment 
to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations. 
We are confident that his legacy will live on and serve 
as  an  inspiration  to  the  next  person  to  assume  the 
responsibility.  On  behalf  of  the  Paraguayan  people,  I 
16/25 
16-29565
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.16
reiterate  our  appreciation  for  his  historic  visit  to  the 
Republic of Paraguay.
We 
live 
in  an 
increasingly  complex  and 
interconnected world with an international context that 
is constantly evolving. Traditional armed conflicts have 
nearly disappeared, but terrorism in its most cowardly 
and  intolerant  form  has  reached  global  dimensions 
and is characterized by the emergence of increasingly 
cruel  and  inhuman  groups  that  scorn  human  life  and 
lack any respect for rights and fundamental freedoms. 
The effects of climate change and pollution continue to 
worsen, and pandemics threaten our planet.
The  global  challenges  that  transcend  physical 
borders  and  to  which  no  State  is  immune  cannot  be 
confronted  individually.  It  is  therefore  essential  to 
promote  collective,  comprehensive  strategies,  based 
on shared responsibility. Furthermore, we cannot lose 
sight  of  other  priority  challenges  such  as  eradicating 
poverty,  reducing  inequality  and  ensuring  a  life  of 
dignity for all.
We are saddened and concerned about the situation 
endured  by  refugees  and  migrants  in  various  parts  of 
the  world.  The  scale  of  the  refugee  crisis  should  lead 
us to think, not only of responses to their most pressing 
needs,  but  about  the  importance  of  resolving  the  root 
causes  that  have  led  these  people  to  flee  their  homes 
and  embark  on  perilous  journeys  in  which  they  face 
terrifying uncertainty.
Today,  given  the  new  and  complex  contexts, 
the  main  purposes  of  the  United  Nations  —  to  find 
solutions to the international problems in the economic, 
social,  cultural  and  humanitarian  spheres  and  to 
promote respect for human rights — have not lost their 
relevance. On the contrary, they are more compelling 
than ever. However, the Organization requires reform 
that brings it up to date and helps it to come up with 
appropriate and effective responses.
The General Assembly must be strengthened. It is 
the highest expression of the democracy of the countries 
that constitute it. Sovereign equality is the cornerstone 
of  its  structure.  It  is  the  Parliament  of  the  world.  We 
believe  that  this  year,  given  the  public  hearings  that 
have taken place with the candidates, men and women 
alike, we have taken an important step in strengthening 
its  role  and  in  increasing  transparency  in  the  process 
of  selecting  the  next  Secretary-General.  Paraguay 
would  like  a  Secretary-General  who  attaches  priority 
to  preventive  diplomacy  and  mediation  and  who,  as 
the  main  person  responsible  for  the  administration, 
will  ensure  that  the  system  of  the  United  Nations 
exemplifies  inclusion  and  promotes  national  diversity 
and gender balance in its staff.
Reform  should  also  encompass  our  executive 
branch,  the  Security  Council,  the  body  in  charge  of 
maintaining international peace and security. We need 
a  more  democratic  and  representative  Council  with 
more space for developing countries — a Council that 
is transparent, inclusive and accountable for its actions. 
I would like to mention that Paraguay aspires to be a 
member of that body from 2028 to 2029. The Republic of 
Paraguay reaffirms its commitment to international law 
and  multilateralism.  Unilateral  action  in  international 
relations only negatively affects the weakest countries.
A fundamental pillar of peaceful and harmonious 
coexistence among States is the peaceful use of nuclear 
energy.  We  advocate  for  such  energy  programmes, 
developed  with  full  precautions  so  as 
limit 
the  degradation  that  its  products  can  cause  to  the 
environment.  States  that  carry  out  such  programmes 
should  do  so  on  the  basis  of  broad,  cross-border 
responsibility. They should follow best practices based 
on international cooperation, prevention of the risk of 
damage, and due diligence, responding appropriately to 
possible cross-border damage.
to 
All nations of the world are called upon to prevent 
threats  to  peace  and  to  adopt  appropriate  measures 
to  strengthen  universal  peace,  especially  with  regard 
to  disarmament,  non-proliferation  and  arms  control. 
Collective and responsible action is necessary in order 
to address the various situations that endanger the lives 
and  security  of  civilians  and  that  affect  the  political 
stability of entire countries and regions.
to 
Paraguay  reaffirms  its  willingness  to  continue 
contributing 
the  personnel  of  peacekeeping 
operations.  Today,  there  are  Paraguayan  personnel 
deployed  in  seven  of  those  operations.  The  Republic 
of  Paraguay  strongly  condemns  terrorism  and  violent 
extremism in all its forms and manifestations and stands 
in solidarity with victims and the suffering caused to 
them  and  their  families  by  terrorist  acts.  Last  month, 
our  country  suffered  a  criminal  attack  that  killed 
Paraguayan  military  personnel  in  the  performance  of 
their duties. We are grateful for expressions of solidarity 
from the international community, and we reaffirm our 
commitment  to  the  struggle  against  terrorism  in  the 
16-29565
17/25
A/71/PV.16 
22/09/2016
framework  of  international  law  and  with  full  respect 
for human rights and international humanitarian law.
Congress  has  approved  the  Agreement,  and  in  a  few 
days we will put the relevant ratification into effect.
Our Government, founded on traditional relations 
of  friendship  and  cooperation  with  the  Republic  of 
China on Taiwan, appeals for that country to have an 
enhanced presence in the agencies and programmes of 
the United Nations system. 
Poverty  and  inequality  are  drivers  of  political 
instability. They degrade the social fabric and condemn 
the  most  vulnerable  to  a  life  of  exclusion  and  want. 
The  historic  promise  embodied  in  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  to  eradicate  poverty 
everywhere and if possible forever, within 15 years, is, 
therefore, unprecedented in history. With that in mind, 
my  country’s  Government  is  implementing  inclusive 
development plans and programmes for the progressive 
realization  of  the  economic  and  social  rights  of  our 
citizens and in doing so works to improve their quality 
of life, which in turn will contribute to strengthening 
our democracy. 
The  sustained  economic  growth  of  Paraguay 
in  recent  years  and  the  implementation  of  its  social 
protection strategies have made it possible for thousands 
of  Paraguayan  families  to  emerge  from  extreme 
poverty. However, our challenge is not only to continue 
making progress in that direction but to avoid having 
those who emerge from poverty fall back into it. Our 
most  iconic  initiatives  and  social  protection  schemes 
involve conditional monetary transfers, school lunches 
and  pensions  for  the  elderly.  We  also  have  specific 
programmes  to  put  an  end  to  the  intergenerational 
transmission  of  poverty, 
the  Sowing 
Opportunities  Programme,  which  improves  families’ 
access to health and education and prioritizes women 
who  are  the  heads  of  their  households.  In  Paraguay, 
we strongly promote infrastructure, and we are taking 
measures  to  improve  transparency  and  accountability 
in public institutions. “The public domain open to the 
public.” That is our Government’s motto.
such  as 
Additionally, we encourage productive development 
by promoting investments, with the understanding that 
the  private  sector  plays  an  important  role  in  creating 
opportunities that help provide jobs for all and decent 
work.  Countries  like  ours,  which  greatly  depend  on 
natural  resources,  are  more  vulnerable  to  climate 
change. Therefore, for Paraguay, the Paris Agreement 
is a priority. I would like to announce that the National 
trade 
through 
their 
landlocked 
International 
is  a  pillar  of  sustainable 
development.  However, 
developing 
countries  face  special  needs  and  challenges  in  their 
efforts to be full and effective members of the global 
economy and benefit from it. The Republic of Paraguay 
urges developed countries to allow increased access to 
their markets for products from landlocked developing 
countries 
in  systems  of 
generalized  preferences,  trade  financing  programmes 
and  programmes  of  aid  for  trade,  and  by  promoting 
the  integration  of  landlocked  countries  into  global 
and  regional  production  chains.  The  Republic  of 
Paraguay is fighting for the prompt implementation of 
the  Bali  Agreement  on  Trade  Facilitation,  which  will 
undoubtedly  result  in  increased  competitiveness  in 
global markets. 
inclusion 
Young people are the most important human capital 
of  a  country,  and  Paraguay  has  one  of  the  largest 
youth  populations  among  Latin  American  countries. 
Convinced that we must prepare them for the challenges 
of  contributing  to  a  better  and  more  just  society,  our 
Government has started the Don Antonio Carlos López 
Scholarship  Programme  for  studies  abroad,  which 
has  benefitted  hundreds  of  youth.  This  year,  we  also 
launched  the  first  call  announcing  specialized  study 
scholarships for teachers in all parts of the country. 
Since  the  adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration 
of  Human  Rights,  the  international  community  has 
seen great progress in the international promotion and 
protection of human rights. One of the most significant 
steps  was  the  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  which  celebrates  its  tenth  anniversary  this 
year.  For  Paraguay,  a  current  member,  it  is  essential 
to  strengthen  the  Council,  give  it  the  necessary 
tools  to  persevere  in  its  mandate,  and  eliminate  any 
obstacles  that  may  weaken  it.  We  proudly  emphasize 
that our country has developed the Recommendations 
Monitoring  System,  which  makes 
to 
transparently  and  openly  verify  compliance  with 
international recommendations on human rights at the 
national level. We have made that mechanism available 
to all States interested in replicating it in the context of 
their national realities. 
it  possible 
Paraguay  welcomes 
bilateral 
the 
agreement  and  definitive  ceasefire  between 
Republic  of  Colombia  and  the  Revolutionary  Armed 
historic 
the 
18/25 
16-29565
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.16
Forces  of  Colombia,  and  congratulates  all  those  who 
made it possible. The Paraguayan people extend their 
best  wishes  to  Colombia,  with  whom  we  are  joined 
in  bonds  of  historical  and  unbreakable  friendship. 
We genuinely hope that this new stage will be one of 
national reconciliation and unification, so that together 
the country may face the challenges ahead in order to 
build a country in peace and social justice where no one 
is excluded.
We support the use of dialogue, good-faith political 
solutions and peaceful means as the only tools suitable 
for resolving conflicts, so that agreements that promote 
lasting  and  sustainable  peace  in  the  framework  of 
international law can be achieved. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Sir Puka Temu, Special Envoy 
of the Prime Minister and Minister for Public Service 
of Papua New Guinea.
Sir Puka Temu (Papua New Guinea): Papua New 
Guinea appreciates and applauds the outgoing President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  His  Excellency  Mogens 
Lykketoft, for his outstanding guidance of the General 
Assembly in the conduct of its business this past year.
that 
Papua  New  Guinea  is  delighted  to  see  a  Pacific 
Islander  presiding  for  the  first  time  over  the  General 
Assembly at this session as its seventy-first President, 
and joins the international community in congratulating 
His  Excellency  Ambassador  Peter  Thomson  on  his 
historic election. We wish him a successful presidency.
We  gather  here  before  the  sombre  backdrop 
of  a  world 
is  beset  with  multidimensional 
humanitarian,  political,  economic,  social,  peace  and 
security and environmental challenges on a scale that is 
unprecedented in recent memory. Many of our countries, 
including  my  own,  have  not  been  spared  from  the 
adverse impact of the global situation, and we continue 
to reel from them. Those challenges are unlikely to be 
overcome in the short term or by individual countries 
on  their  own.  That  reminds  us  all  of  the  importance 
of ensuring that we, the peoples of the United Nations, 
renew and strengthen our resolve and faith in the letter 
and spirit of the Charter of the United Nations.
The ongoing sad plight of millions of refugees and 
migrants — including internally displaced persons and 
those  that  have  paid  the  ultimate  sacrifice  with  their 
lives — should not and cannot become the new normal. 
No  country  is  immune  from  the  implications  of  that 
increasing  global  concern.  My  Government  in  Papua 
New  Guinea  —  in  accordance  with  our  international 
human  rights  obligations  and  in  close  partnership 
with  Australia  —  hosts,  on  a  humanitarian  basis,  a 
regional processing centre on the island of Manus for 
asylum-seekers who have made perilous journeys from 
troubled areas of the world, including the Middle East 
and  Asia.  That  bilateral  arrangement  has  not  been 
without its controversies. My Government has accepted 
the decision of our Supreme Court earlier this year to 
close down the facility, as the arrangement was found 
to  be  unconstitutional.  My  Government  is  now  in  the 
process of dismantling that facility and looking at other 
arrangements with Australia to resettle those refugees 
who do not wish to settle in Papua New Guinea. 
We  are  committed  to  being  part  of  the  global 
solution to the affront to the dignity of humanity and 
human rights imposed by forced migration. We pledge 
to  act  together  with  the  international  community 
to  address  not  only  the  root  causes  of  that  issue,  but 
also to better assist the affected victims and impacted 
countries of origin, transit and destination. The desire 
to halt the inhumanity and indignity must be our moral 
compass. We therefore commend and support the strong 
leadership  shown  by  the  Secretary-General  and  other 
leaders of the world in directly addressing that serious 
issue,  particularly  through  the  World  Humanitarian 
Summit  and  other  relevant  meetings  on  migrants  and 
refugees.
In  the  context  of  human  rights  protection  and 
promotion, Papua New Guinea welcomes this morning’s 
adoption  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  of  the  set  of 
recommendations  for  Papua  New  Guinea’s  second 
universal periodic review. As challenging as they are, 
my Government is committed to addressing the various 
issues raised in that report (A/HRC/33/10).
Papua  New  Guinea’s  Constitution 
the 
protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights  as  an 
enduring and sacrosanct principle, to which we remain 
steadfastly committed. That encompasses all the rights 
and freedoms articulated in the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  particularly  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights,  as  well  as  other  human  rights  treaty 
obligations under international law.
sets 
As  Papua  New  Guinea  embarks  on  implementing 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and other 
multilateral agreements, we are guided by our National 
Strategy for Responsible Sustainable Development, our 
16-29565
19/25
A/71/PV.16 
22/09/2016
Medium-Term  Development  Plan  and  the  long-term 
strategic  Vision  2050  development  road  map  as  we 
work towards becoming a prosperous, secure, healthy, 
peaceful  and  progressive  nation.  The  importance  of 
ensuring  the  fundamental  and  inherent  rights  of  our 
citizens continues to remain central to that process.
For  Papua  New  Guinea,  the  key  to  realizing  the 
enhancement of our citizens’ human rights and freedoms 
while  ensuring  our  fulfilment  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals also hinges on fostering the right 
enabling  environment.  That  includes  the  rule  of  law, 
good governance, capacity-building, economic growth, 
multi-stakeholder partnerships and national ownership 
and leadership. Papua New Guinea’s concern for human 
rights is also demonstrated by our long and proactive 
membership in the United Nations Special Committee 
on Decolonization, which addresses the aspirations for 
self-determination of colonized peoples and territories. 
That process must be completed, and our commitment 
remains undiminished.
is  concerned 
that 
Papua  New  Guinea 
the 
international  community,  despite  all  its  efforts,  is 
unable to contain the ongoing wars caused by economic, 
religious,  ethnic  and  other  factors,  including  acts  of 
terrorism.  My  Government  is  hopeful  that  the  high-
level meetings conducted over this past year will help 
address many of the root causes of those conflicts.
Many of today’s ongoing conflicts are also fuelled 
by the proliferation of firearms, especially small arms 
and light weapons. We therefore welcome global efforts 
to regulate the arms trade, which will minimize global 
conflicts and the displacement of people.
The  United  Nations  Charter  and  the  universal 
and  transformative  Goal  16  of  the  2030  Agenda  on 
Sustainable Development are instructive on the nexus 
between  peace,  security  and  sustainable  development 
for the benefit of humankind.
Let us seize this opportunity to work hand in hand 
in order to resolve the simmering conflicts and tensions 
that  continue  tragically  to  afflict  many  parts  of  the 
world.  Those  events  have  dire  consequences  not  only 
for  those  directly  affected  but  also  for  the  rest  of  the 
international community. Papua New Guinea joins the 
international  community  in  calling  on  all  adversaries 
in armed conflicts around the world to lay down their 
arms and resort to peaceful means for the settlement of 
conflicts.
On  nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction, Papua New Guinea is staunchly opposed to 
their existence, testing and use. Complete disarmament 
of those murderous weapons is what the world needs for 
peace and security. In that regard, Papua New Guinea 
is  concerned  over  the  ongoing  nuclear  weapons  and 
missile  tests  carried  out  by  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  in  contravention  of  the  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions.  We  strongly  condemn 
such  acts,  as  they  threaten  regional  and  global  peace 
and stability.
For  our  part,  my  country  is  making  a  modest 
contribution through the United Nations peacekeeping 
operations in South Sudan and Darfur. We stand ready 
to work with the United Nations and further cooperate 
in international peacekeeping. We also learned hard but 
important lessons from our own internal armed conflict 
in the Autonomous Region of Bougainville two decades 
ago. We thank the United Nations and other partners for 
the valuable support provided in resolving that conflict. 
At the regional level, we continue to effectively support 
the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands 
as it transitions to its conclusion next June.
the 
The  year  2016  has  been  heralded  as 
the 
year  of 
implementation  of  recently  adopted 
international  development  agreements,  in  particular 
the  transformative  and  inclusive  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  which  underscores 
the 
importance  of  eradicating  poverty  and  ensuring  that 
no  one  is  left  behind.  It  now  forms  the  key  driver 
for  multilateral  and  bilateral  cooperation,  as  well  as 
national  engagement,  in  improving  the  quality  of  life 
for all.
We  therefore  welcome  and  support  the  sensible 
theme  for  this  General  Assembly  session  chosen  by 
the new President. The challenge is to ensure that the 
2030 Agenda is led and driven nationally with support, 
as necessary, from development partners. To that end, 
we  appreciate  and  have  supported  the  first  high-level 
review  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
and are committed to ensuring their full implementation 
in our country and globally as well. Papua New Guinea 
agrees  with  the  high-level  political  forum’s  outcome, 
which  recognizes  that  the  key  to  the  2030  Agenda 
hinges on ensuring national ownership and leadership, 
multi-stakeholder  engagement  and  partnership,  and  a 
paradigm shift away from the business-as-usual modus 
operandi.
20/25 
16-29565
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.16
My Government is committed to delivering on the 
SDGs  for  the  people  of  Papua  New  Guinea.  We  are 
building  on  the  important  lessons  learned  from  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. 
We  are  in  the  process  of  translating  and  integrating 
the  SDGs  at  the  national  level  within  the  framework 
of  the  National  Strategy  for  Responsible  Sustainable 
Development.  That  is  further  guided  by  our  medium-
term plan and our long-term Vision 2050 development 
plan for a prosperous nation.
recognizes 
that 
My  Government 
the  2030 
Agenda  aligns 
fully  with  our  current  national 
development priorities with regard to education, health, 
infrastructure,  sustainable  economic  growth,  and 
law  and  order,  which  we  are  already  implementing 
throughout the country. In that regard, my Government 
has  legislated  and  is  implementing  a  robust  and 
unprecedented decentralized governance structure that 
now enables our 89 districts throughout the country to 
be  fully  funded  and  directly  involved  in  identifying, 
designing and implementing the national development 
priorities  specific  to  their  respective  areas.  We  are 
engaging  the  private  sector,  faith-based  organizations 
and civil-society organizations, which are adding value 
to our national development.
including 
financial  support 
We  also  stress  the  importance  of  mobilizing 
resources, 
from  all 
available  sources,  so  as  to  be  able  to  deliver  on  the 
SDGs nationally. That is why the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda  on  funding  for  development  is  pivotal  and 
needs  to  be  fully  implemented.  At  our  national  level, 
we  have  recently  concluded  taxation-system  reforms 
so as to strengthen financial resource mobilization in 
support of our national development agenda.
The attainment of the SDGs at the national level is 
also dependent on the growth and strength of the global 
economy.  The  ongoing  depressed  global  economy, 
with  low  agricultural  commodity  prices  compared  to 
prices in the petroleum, oil and gas and mineral sectors, 
continues  to  constrain  our  national  efforts  to  achieve 
sustainable  development.  We  urge  concerted  global 
efforts  to  spur  our  economic  growth  so  that  we  can 
support delivery on the SDGs.
For  us,  development  cooperation 
is  also  an 
important  element  that  constitutes  40  per  cent  of 
our  annual  development  budget  and  remains  a  key 
component  for  the  successful  pursuit  of  our  national 
the  SDGs.  For 
development  priorities, 
including 
development  partners  to  be  meaningful  supporters  of 
national SDGs efforts, it is imperative that they align 
their  assistance  to  national  development  policies, 
strategies  and  plans  rather  than  undertake  parallel 
paths that can be unhelpful.
Papua  New  Guinea  is  highly  vulnerable  to  the 
adverse  impacts  of  climate  change.  Therefore,  in 
order  to  demonstrate  our  commitment  to  combating 
climate  change,  we  supported  the  adoption  of  the 
Paris Agreement in December 2015, signed it in April 
2016,  and  ratified  and  deposited  the  instrument  of 
ratification  at  the  Secretariat  yesterday.  We  welcome 
and congratulate those countries that have ratified the 
Paris Agreement, and we urge those that have not yet 
done so to do so, particularly countries that emit high 
levels of carbon.
I am also pleased to inform the Assembly that we 
have  signed  a  privileges  and  immunities  agreement 
with  the  Green  Climate  Fund  yesterday.  That  will 
assist in facilitating the funding and support necessary 
for  the  implementation  of  our  nationally  determined 
contributions.
As  an  archipelagic  State,  Papua  New  Guinea  is 
concerned with the state of the world’s oceans, since a 
large proportion of our people’s lives and livelihoods, 
including our cultural heritage, is linked with the oceans 
and seas. The health, productivity and resilience of the 
oceans  and  seas  are  increasingly  under  threat  from 
uncontrolled  and  poorly  regulated  human  activities, 
including illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing, 
land-based  pollution,  plastic  and  marine  debris,  and 
ocean  warming  and  acidification.  In  order  better  to 
address  those  concerns,  my  Government  recently 
approved  an  integrated  National  Oceans  Office,  and 
we  are  setting  in  place,  in  close  partnership  with  our 
development partners, the necessary policy framework 
and legislation.
At  the  regional  level,  under  the  auspices  of 
the  Pacific  Islands  Forum,  our  collective  support, 
leadership and advocacy for a healthy, productive and 
resilient oceans and seas have been harnessed under the 
region’s  Pacific  Oceanscape  Framework.  Papua  New 
Guinea  therefore  welcomes  and  endorses  the  United 
Nations  Conference  to  Support  the  Implementation 
of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  14  on  oceans  so  as 
to  advance  action  on  the  world’s  ocean  development 
agenda.  Likewise,  we  commend  the  United  States 
Government for convening the Our Oceans Conference 
16-29565
21/25
A/71/PV.16 
22/09/2016
last week to address those concerns, including through 
the promotion of partnerships.
It is also important to ensure that the activities on 
the high seas not compromise efforts to conserve and 
sustainably  use  ocean  resources  within  our  national 
jurisdiction. For that reason, we urge a timely conclusion 
to the Preparatory Committee process on the elements 
of  a  draft  text  of  an  international,  legally  binding 
instrument,  under  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea, on the conservation and sustainable 
use  of  marine  biological  diversity  in  areas  beyond 
national jurisdiction.
We  look  to  a  secure  future  for  our  people,  based 
on 
the 
sustainable  development,  management, 
conservation  and  use  of  our  ocean  and  its  resources. 
We must urgently change the way we think about our 
ocean and its resources. Transformational change and 
action must start now.
The  international  community  is  all  too  familiar 
with  the  constant  and  increasing  calls  by  Member 
States  and  other  stakeholders  to  reform  the  United 
Nations system, including the Security Council, so as 
to  reflect  today’s  global  circumstances.  While  Papua 
New Guinea recognizes that changes in any institution 
are never easy, we remain concerned about the slow and 
merely incremental pace of the reforms of the United 
Nations.  With  respect  to  the  Security  Council,  while 
we welcome the incremental progress made in the past 
year, we have, however, witnessed in the process of the 
selection  of  the  next  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations over the past few months the unjust and archaic 
procedures  and  processes  that  render  the  majority  of 
sovereign  Member  States  unequal  in  this  premier 
multilateral forum that espouses sovereign equality.
Another  glaringly  unfair  practice  in  the  existing 
United  Nations  system  is  the  underrepresentation  of 
qualified women at the senior management level of the 
Secretariat. The United Nations must not merely preach 
about  gender  equality  and  empowerment,  it  must  be 
seen  to  exercise  and  implement  what  it  advocates. 
Nevertheless,  Papua  New  Guinea  commends 
the 
Secretary-General for his efforts to reform the United 
Nations  system.  Every  effort  must  be  made  by  all 
Member  States  to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  is 
reformed  to  better  suit  today’s  world  and  be  fit  for 
purpose so as to serve its membership justly and fairly.
We  thank  the  outgoing  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  his  innovative  initiative  to  introduce 
transparency  and  inclusiveness  for  Member  States  in 
what has long been a closed and opaque process in the 
selection  of  a  new  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations. Papua New Guinea notes the process underway 
to  select  the  next  Secretary-General  to  succeed  the 
incumbent, whose term comes to a conclusion at the end 
of  December  2016.  Papua  New  Guinea  looks  forward 
to  working  with  the  next  Secretary-General,  and  we 
pledge our support in continuing the reform agenda.
On  behalf  of  Papua  New  Guinea,  I  join  previous 
speakers  in  paying  tribute  to  the  current  Secretary-
General  for  his  outstanding  leadership  in  bringing 
the  international  community  together  to  address  the 
unprecedented  challenges  during  his  tenure  of  office. 
For Papua New Guinea, he has also been the champion 
of  small  island  developing  States  and  the  Pacific.  We 
deeply  value  and  appreciate  the  fact  that  he  is  the 
only  serving  United  Nations  Secretary-General  who 
has  visited  our  region  twice  and  has  also  enabled  a 
regular  annual  dialogue  with  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
leaders, including his invitation to tomorrow’s meeting. 
Those actions clearly attest to his visionary and caring 
leadership for our regional issues. On my Government’s 
and the people’s behalf, I wish him and his wife good 
health and every success in his next endeavour.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Yun Byung-se, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea.
Mr. Yun (Republic of Korea): In 2015 in this Hall, 
the international community shared its concerns on the 
state  of  the  world:  conflicts  and  civil  wars,  terrorism 
and  violent  extremism,  climate  change,  epidemics 
and  grinding  poverty.  Unfortunately,  the  oversupply 
of  problems  and  the  deficit  of  solutions  remains 
unchanged. The sense of crisis paradoxically drew us 
together  to  achieve  historic  milestones,  namely,  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the 
Paris Agreement on climate change.
For the United Nations, 2016 marks the first year 
of  the  next  seven  decades.  It  is  also  the  first  year  for 
implementing the noted landmark achievements. In an 
increasingly interconnected world that faces a daunting 
array of complex challenges, the central role played by 
the United Nations is more crucial than ever. In order to 
address that multilayered equation in a sustainable way, 
the  United  Nations  needs  to  heed  calls  for  inclusive 
multilateralism,  that  is,  multilateral  efforts  to  include 
the vulnerable, the isolated and the unempowered.
22/25 
16-29565
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.16
The  World  Humanitarian  Summit,  held  in  May, 
and  the  high-level  plenary  meeting  on  addressing 
large  movements  of  migrants  and  refugees,  held  this 
September,  represent  part  of  such  joint  efforts  in  that 
regard.  Most  of  all,  we  have  the  flagship  blueprint 
for  inclusive  multilateralism,  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development, with its promise for a world 
that leaves no one behind.
The  Republic  of  Korea  is  often  referred  to  as 
a  success  story  for  development.  As  such,  we  are 
ready  to  share  our  experiences  for  implementing  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Over the past 
year, my Government launched major initiatives in the 
areas  of  education,  women’s  empowerment,  science, 
technology and rural development. We have introduced 
Korea  Aid,  a  new  development  cooperation  initiative, 
a  mobile,  customized  service  delivered  to  those  in 
need.  Vulnerable  groups  are  already  experiencing 
better health and medical services, as well as enjoying 
adequate food and cultural activities.
The  SDGs  and  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  are  inextricably  linked  to  the  future  of  our 
planet  and  our  people.  They  should  be  mutually 
reinforcing and lead to a virtuous cycle. In that respect, 
as the host of the Copenhagen Green Climate Fund, my 
Government  is  taking  domestic  steps  to  complete  the 
ratification of the Paris Agreement as soon as possible 
this year.
The successful implementation of the SDGs relies 
on the strong anchor of peace and security, as well as 
respect for human rights. Peace in the fullest sense can be 
achieved solely when peace and security, development 
and  human  rights  are  advanced  together,  and  that  is 
the essence of the new concept of sustaining peace. It 
broadens peacebuilding from post-conflict contexts to 
the whole spectrum of conflicts. We share the renewed 
awareness of the idea that conflict prevention should be 
mainstreamed in all United Nations activities.
As  has  been  noted  by  many  speakers  this  week, 
a frequent signal of looming conflicts is the violation 
of  human  rights.  In  conflict  prevention,  reading  the 
writing on the wall before it is too late is imperative. We 
know that from experience, such as in Syria, Libya and 
Afghanistan. Another symptom is the spread of violent 
extremism  and  terrorism.  Those  are  multifaceted 
challenges,  and  there  is  no  one-size-fits-all  solution. 
We  need  a  holistic,  inclusive  and  multi-stakeholder 
approach.
This year, the United Nations embarks on its next 70 
years. For us, 2016 is also an important symbolic year: 
just 25 years ago, the Republic of Korea, together with 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, became a 
State Member of the United Nations. Two Koreas were 
admitted simultaneously, but we had a dream that in the 
future, there would be one Korea, just like one reunified 
Germany in 1991. Looking back at the track record of 
those  two  Members,  there  can  be  no  starker  contrast. 
As President Obama remarked earlier this week here in 
this Hall, one has taken the path of success, while the 
other has become a wasteland (see A/71/PV.8).
The reason that North Korea has failed is because, 
among other things, of its fanatical and reckless pursuit 
of  nuclear  and  missile  programmes.  North  Korea  has 
been  the  first  and  only  country  to  conduct  nuclear 
tests in this century. So far it has conducted five such 
tests,  violating  multiple  Security  Council  resolutions. 
Just yesterday, at the eighth ministerial meeting of the 
Friends of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, 
43  countries  issued  a  joint  statement  condemning 
Pyongyang’s nuclear tests in the strongest terms. North 
Korea is the first and only country to develop nuclear-
weapon  programmes  under  the  regime  of  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT), 
and  it  has  announced  its  withdrawal  from  both  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency and the NPT. It is 
also the first and only country to officially declare itself 
to be a nuclear-weapon State in its own Constitution.
North  Korea’s  recent  nuclear  tests  show  that  its 
programmes  have  neared  a  tipping  point.  The  latest 
test was the strongest ever. The interval between tests 
has  also  been  significantly  reduced,  from  three  years 
to  eight  months.  Given  the  country’s  unpredictability 
and  penchant  for  provocations,  the  next  test  and 
nuclear  provocation  may  come  even  sooner  than  we 
expect. North Korea has also fired 22 ballistic missiles 
of  various  types  this  year  alone,  amounting  to  one 
ballistic missile almost every 10 days. The nuclear and 
ballistic missile tests show that North Korea is now at 
the  final  stage  of  nuclear  weaponization.  Even  more 
worryingly,  not  only  has  it  advanced  its  nuclear  and 
missile capacity, it has publicly threatened to actually 
use those weapons preemptively, with the potential to 
strike  my  country,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  in  four  to 
five  minutes.  With  such  a  direct  existential  threat  to 
our survival, my Government has no choice but to take 
the defensive measures necessary to protect our nation 
and citizens.
16-29565
23/25
A/71/PV.16 
22/09/2016
In the wake of North Korea’s fifth nuclear test, the 
Security Council agreed to begin working immediately 
on  appropriate  measures  based  on  Article  41  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  it  is  currently 
discussing a new draft resolution on North Korea. We 
believe  that  the  Council  should  adopt  stronger,  more 
comprehensive  sanctions  that  go  beyond  the  scope  of 
resolution 2270 (2016), close its loopholes and further 
expand and reinforce the existing measures.
In that context, we need to find an answer to a more 
fundamental question, namely, North Korea’s repeated 
violations  of  and  non-compliance  with  Security 
Council resolutions and international norms, which are 
unprecedented,  with  no  parallel  in  the  history  of  the 
United  Nations.  They  show  that  North  Korea  makes 
a  complete  mockery  of  the  authority  of  the  Security 
Council,  and  thereby  of  the  United  Nations  itself.  It 
is crystal clear that North Korea, as a serial offender, 
has  manifestly  failed  to  uphold  its  pledge  to  abide 
by  its  obligations  under  the  Charter,  particularly  the 
commitments to accept and carry out the decisions of 
the Security Council. I therefore believe that it is high 
time  to  seriously  reconsider  whether  North  Korea  is 
qualified  to  be  a  peace-loving  Member  of  the  United 
Nations,  something  that  many  countries  are  already 
questioning. At the East Asia Summit held recently in 
Laos, my President warned that, unless we put a brake 
on Pyongyang’s nuclear ambitions today, we will regret 
it tomorrow. This is our last chance.
North Korea’s fifth nuclear test not only revealed 
its unambiguous nuclear ambitions, it also exposed its 
utter disregard for its own people. At a time of the worst 
flooding that it has experienced in decades, North Korea 
went ahead with its nuclear test in the very region that 
was hardest hit by the floods. It is estimated that North 
Korea has spent at least $200 million on nuclear tests 
and missiles this year alone, a sum that would have been 
enough to pay for flood relief. Two years ago, the report 
of  the  commission  of  inquiry  on  human  rights  in  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (A/HRC/25/63), 
which  detailed  North  Korea’s  systematic,  widespread 
and gross human rights violations, was an eye-opener 
for  the  entire  world.  Its  ripples  spread  to  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security 
Council and even beyond.
We live in an age of greater accountability today. 
North  Korea’s  human  rights  abuses  should  no  longer 
be  allowed  any  impunity.  It  is  also  our  common 
responsibility  to  protect  the  country’s  people  when 
should 
accountability 
the regime defiantly refuses to do so itself. Now is the 
time  for  action.  First,  the  international  community’s 
human  rights  mechanisms  must  come  up  with  more 
robust  measures.  A  group  of  independent  experts 
on 
recommend  practical 
mechanisms to enforce accountability for human rights 
violations  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea, particularly those that amount to crimes against 
humanity.  Secondly,  we  must  focus  more  on  North 
Korea’s so-called State-sponsored forced labour abroad. 
There should be greater scrutiny of the human rights of 
North  Korean  workers  outside  the  country  and  of  the 
possible  diversion  of  their  wages  into  North  Korea’s 
programmes to develop weapons of mass destruction. 
Thirdly, the international community should pay more 
attention  to  the  desire  of  North  Koreans  for  freedom 
and human dignity. They deserve better access to the 
realities of the outside world. For our part, we recently 
passed  an  act  on  the  human  rights  of  North  Koreans, 
reflecting  the  nationwide  consensus  that  we  should 
no  longer  ignore  the  human  rights  situation  in  North 
Korea.
This year marks Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon’s 
tenth year in office and the last session of the General 
Assembly  during  his  term.  I  would  like  to  commend 
his  commitment  and  leadership,  and  his  remarkable 
achievements  in  a  range  of  areas,  notably  on  climate 
change,  sustainable  development,  gender  equality, 
humanitarian assistance and management reform of the 
United Nations. I believe that he has greatly strengthened 
the Organization’s role and status through his efforts to 
deal  with  the  unprecedented  challenges  that  we  have 
seen during a time of enormous transformation.
The  United  Nations  is  currently  in  the  process  of 
choosing  his  successor.  I  am  confident  that  the  next 
Secretary-General will strive to make the Organization 
stronger  and  more  efficient  by  building  on  Mr.  Ban’s 
legacy. The founding principles of the Republic of Korea 
are at one with the spirit of the Charter’s phrase “We the 
peoples”. I hope that this year’s session of the General 
Assembly, representing the peoples of the world, will 
help  to  increase  confidence  in  the  Organization  as  a 
beacon of hope in a turbulent world. And I would like 
to assure the Assembly that my country will continue 
to be a staunch supporter of the United Nations in its 
important and vital mission.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for  this 
meeting.
24/25 
16-29565
22/09/2016 
A/71/PV.16
I now call on those representatives who have asked 
to  speak  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  I  remind 
members that statements in exercise of the right of reply 
must be limited to 10 minutes for the first statement and 
five minutes for the second, should there be one, and 
that representatives should speak from their seats.
Mr.  Maleki  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  The 
representative of the Israeli regime took the floor today 
in the Assembly (see A/71/PV.14) and once again tried 
to fool the whole world. He talked at length only about 
peripheral issues and matters unrelated to the issues at 
the core of the Palestinian questions that have endured 
for so many decades. That core concerns the land grab 
and the military occupation of the Palestinian territory. 
The  situation  continues  to  remind  him  and  Israel’s 
other  representatives  that,  as  long  as  the  occupation 
of  a  people’s  land  continues,  that  people  will  never 
stop  fighting  the  occupiers.  At  the  same  time,  the 
representative  was  also  self-congratulatory  about 
Israel’s gains, in an attempt to blind his audience to the 
fact  that  he  and  his  cohorts  have  done  everything  in 
their power to impose misery and despair on the people 
living under their occupation. As usual, he also tried to 
distract the world’s attention from the military regime 
that Israel has created, the arsenal of nuclear bombs and 
chemical weapons that it has amassed, and the policy of 
military build-up that it has pursued for decades.
As usual, the speaker also repeated Israel’s baseless 
fabrications about my Government. Although Iran is at 
the forefront of the fight against terrorism in the region, 
he accused us of being leaders of terrorism — without 
being  able,  as  usual,  to  offer  those  present  any  proof 
of that. Indeed, quite contrary to his claims, it is now 
an  established  fact  that  Israeli  agents  have  tended  to 
Da’esh operatives who are active on Syrian territory in 
the vicinity of the Israeli border. There is now a mass of 
proof showing that a Da’esh terrorist has been admitted 
to Israeli medical facilities and has been treated there. 
The Israelis have claimed that they have done so out of 
their  altruism  and  humanitarian  instincts,  claims  that 
they  also  made  while  indiscriminately  bombing  and 
shelling schools and nurseries in the Gaza Strip.
Once  again,  a  regime  that  is  armed  to  the  teeth 
with  nuclear  and  chemical  weapons  and  that  has 
never  hesitated  to  unleash  its  military  hardware 
against  defenceless  Palestinian  civilians  continues  to 
put  out  baseless  rants  against  Iran’s  peaceful  nuclear 
programme.  The  isolation  of  Israel  and  its  head  of 
Government during the efforts that were recently made 
to reach an agreement on Iran’s nuclear regime clearly 
indicate that no world leader or Government will ever 
take seriously the baseless fabrications that the Israeli 
representative  makes  about  Iran.  More  laughable 
today,  however,  was  the  Israeli  speaker’s  accusation 
of Iran as expansionist, considering that the speaker is 
himself someone who has presided over the occupation 
of  another  people’s  lands  and  explicitly  rejected  any 
possibility of the establishment of a Palestinian State, 
including in March 2015.
I would also like to respond briefly to the claims 
made in the Assembly against the territorial integrity of 
my country. The Government of the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran  reiterates  its  full  sovereignty  over  the  Iranian 
islands of Abu Musa and the Greater and Less Tunbs in 
the Persian Gulf, and categorically rejects any claim to 
the contrary. The Islamic Republic of Iran has always 
pursued a policy of friendship and good-neighbourliness 
with  all  its  neighbour  nations.  In  that  context,  my 
Government  continues  to  stand  ready  to  enter  into 
bilateral  discussions  with  the  relevant  officials  of  the 
United Arab Emirates with a view to strengthening our 
relations  in  various  areas  and  thereby  resolving  any 
misunderstanding  between  the  two  countries.  As  has 
been  repeatedly  stated,  the  territorial  integrity  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  its  sovereignty  over  the 
aforementioned Iranian islands are not negotiable.
Mr.  Giacomelli  da  Silva  (Brazil)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Regarding  the  statement  delivered  earlier 
by  the  representative  of  Cuba,  I  would  simply  like  to 
reiterate what President Michel Temer of Brazil said in 
his address to the Assembly on 20 September:
“As we are all aware, Governments of different 
political inclinations coexist in our region. That is 
natural and sound. What is essential is that there be 
mutual respect and that we agree on basic common 
objectives,  such  as  economic  growth,  human 
rights, social progress, security and freedom for all 
citizens.” (A/71/PV.8, p. 8)
The meeting rose at 9 p.m.
16-29565
25/25
