United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
21st plenary meeting
Saturday, 24 September 2016, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.21
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
governmentgIn 
the  President, 
Ms. Young (Belize), Vice-President, took the Chair.
the  absence  of 
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The  Acting  President:  I  call  on    His  Excellency 
Mr.  Perfecto  Rivas  Yasay  Jr.,  Secretary  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines.
Mr.  Yasay  (the  Philippines):  On  behalf  of  the 
Philippine Government and the Filipino people, I wish 
to convey our warmest congratulations to Ambassador 
Peter Thomson on his election as President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  I  also  wish  to 
commend him for choosing a theme that resonates very 
well  among  Member  States  and  partners.  The  theme, 
“The Sustainable Development Goals: a universal push 
to transform our world”, strongly reaffirms the raison 
d’être of the United Nations.
The  Philippines  is  one  of  the  founding  Members 
of the Organization. For more than seven decades, our 
engagement  and  partnership  with  the  United  Nations 
has been a riveting story of our aspirations as a people, 
born of our colonial past and our independent present. 
With its central and strategic role, the United Nations 
remains  a  relevant  and  important  platform  where  all 
nations can make that decisive push to empower us all 
to achieve and sustain our development agenda, which 
has the interests of our peoples at its core.
Today, the Philippines is once again privileged to 
renew its commitment to the cause of peace, security 
and  sustainable  development  through  key  priority 
areas  and  advocacies  identified  in  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  The  global  action  to 
transform  our  world  illuminates  the  urgency  and 
importance of our efforts in the Philippines to explore 
new horizons and break new ground, anchored in our 
unremitting  commitment  as  a  democracy  to  the  rule 
of law and the well-being of our sovereign people and 
to  our  desire  to  remain  a  responsible  partner  in  the 
international community.
The guiding principles and core values enshrined in 
the Constitution of the Philippines include the sanctity 
of human life, the inalienable rights of each person, the 
supremacy of the law, freedom, equality, peace, justice 
and the nation’s right to self-determination. Among the 
country’s  mandates  is  the  pursuit  of  an  independent 
foreign  policy  designed  to  promote  national  interests. 
With  our  hard-fought  and  hard-won  independence, 
we  have  valued  and  zealously  guarded  our  rights  and 
liberties.  To  prevent  abuse  and  unwanted  excesses, 
the checks and balances of our democratic institutions 
are actively at play. They range  from the three highly 
independent  branches  of  government  —  the  Supreme 
Court, the Congress and the Executive Branch — to the 
open and free press and civil society groups committed 
to  guaranteeing 
the  freedom  and  prosperity  of 
every Filipino.
Those  fundamental  and  time-honoured  principles 
and values give rise to the solemn duty of our people 
to  choose  their  leaders.  In  turn,  the  Government  has 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-29817 (E)
*1629817*
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
the  obligation  to  fervently  defend  the  people’s  rights 
and  liberties.  Reneging  on  that  responsibility  places 
the  Government  at  risk  of  being  removed  by  popular 
initiatives, including People Power —- a glorious event 
in  the  Philippines  that  is  admired  and  remembered 
around the world.
Five months ago, our people, through our nation’s 
democratic  principles  and  processes,  elected  a  new 
leader.  President  Rodrigo  Roa  Duterte  triumphed  in 
the  democratic  elections  with  an  unprecedented  and 
resounding  electoral  mandate.  The  Filipino  people, 
proud  of  their  democratic  values,  traditions  and 
heritage,  have  spoken.  Their  vote  is  an  unmistakable 
call  for  a  deepening  of  our  democracy,  where  our 
people will truly be liberated from the shackles of fear, 
conflict, poverty and injustice. Their choice represents 
the expressed wish of the people to revitalize the entire 
country  as  a  sovereign  equal  among  the  community 
of  nations.  Their  sacred  ballots  cast  an  unequivocal 
and resounding voice for change and for tearing down 
antiquated  political  and  economic  structures  that 
have  continued  to  generate  and  perpetuate  numerous 
inequalities.  They  voted  for  the  renewal  of  our 
communities  and  our  society,  for  a  life  of  constancy, 
dignity and honour.
In  his  address  to  the  nation,  President  Duterte 
declared  that  the  rule  of  law  and  the  respect  for  due 
process  will  prevail  at  all  times.  Clearly,  we  will  be 
guided  by  established  norms  and  procedures  under 
the law to deliver on the strong mandate given to the 
President by the Filipino electorate. 
For  far  too  long,  the  Philippines  has  been  unable 
to  fully  advance  because  of  corruption  in  high  and 
low  places,  the  worsening  crime  situation  and  the 
prevalence  of  illegal  drugs.  Our  people  recognize  the 
peril  that  those  evils  pose  to  our  development  and 
our  democracy.  Corruption  has  become  the  breeding 
ground  for  the  illegal  drug  trade,  which  seriously 
threatens the country’s peace and order. Furthermore, 
corruption impedes our sustainable development goals. 
It has torn apart many of our communities, destroyed 
families and snuffed out the hopes and dreams of our 
people,  young  and  old,  for  a  bright  future.  For  that 
reason, we are determined to free the Philippines from 
corrupt  and  other  outdated  practices  as  we  eradicate 
illicit  drugs  and  their  manufacture,  distribution  and 
use in the country. The rule of law and strict adherence 
to  due  process  fully  governs  our  campaign  against 
corruption and criminality, including the fight against 
illegal drugs.
Our firm belief in the supremacy of the law is given 
concrete expression through the State policy, enshrined 
in the Constitution, to fully respect human rights and 
the  value  and  dignity  of  every  person.  We  even  have 
an  independent  Human  Rights  Commission  tasked  to 
investigate  and  prosecute  all  human  rights  violations 
in the country. That national commitment is amplified 
internationally,  as  the  Philippines  is  party  to  eight  of 
the  nine  core  international  human  rights  conventions. 
We  recognize  that  a  secure,  stable,  and  prosperous 
Philippines will require a secure and stable rules-based 
international order to which it must faithfully comply.
With the imperative to forge policies for our people 
aimed at achieving enduring peace and prosperity and 
at restoring trust in the Government’s ability to protect 
their  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms,  the  President, 
going into his third month in office, enjoys a 92 per cent 
rate of approval and trust from the Filipino people. To 
him,  that  trust  is  sacrosanct;  under  no  circumstances 
can  it  be  breached,  under  no  circumstance  must  it 
be compromised.
Our actions have, however, grabbed both national 
headlines and international attention for all the wrong 
reasons. Consequently, we urge everyone to allow us to 
deal with our domestic challenges so that we can achieve 
our  national  goals  without  undue  interference  and  so 
that  we  can  be  among  the  community  of  nations  that 
can collectively make a universal push to transform our 
world and improve the quality of life for all of humanity, 
including the more than 100 million Filipinos. We urge 
everyone to have faith in the strong institutions of our 
democracy and in our people to defend the freedom and 
integrity of our country, and in the power of our people 
as  they  continue  to  freely  participate,  be  involved 
and  have  a  say  in  the  actions  and  decisions  of  their 
democratically elected Government.
Let  me  repeat,  explicitly  and  unequivocally,  that 
the  Philippines  is  committed  to  the  rule  of  law  and 
the  protection  of  the  rights  of  all  Filipinos.  With  that 
abiding  commitment,  we  are  pursuing  our  efforts 
within  the  existing  democratic  and  legal  framework, 
whish is governed by the overriding principle to uphold 
the dignity of every person and the right to due process 
and to the presumption of innocence. For the law to be 
credible, respected and effective, it has to be consistent 
and fair. The full force of the law will be applied at all 
2/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
times  to  serve  the  ends  of  justice,  and  not  just  those 
of  a  select  few.  There  will  be  no  double  standard,  no 
application of selective justice.
Our  campaign  to  rid  the  country  of  criminality, 
lawlessness  and  disorder,  including  our  all-out  war 
against illicit drugs, will remain strictly in accordance 
with the Philippine Constitution and the international 
norms and human rights treaties and covenants that we 
are  party  to.  We  have  not  empowered  and  never  will 
empower  our  law-enforcement  agents  to  shoot  to  kill 
individuals  suspected  of  drug  crimes.  And  yet,  under 
our  established  rules  of  engagement,  our  police  have 
the  right  to  defend  themselves  when  their  lives  are 
threatened.  Extrajudicial  killing  has  no  place  in  our 
society nor in our criminal justice system.
Our sustainable goals rest on the fundamentals of 
development, that is, human development. The path of 
change that we seek is grounded in the most enduring 
of  precepts,  namely,  our  own  national  interest,  which 
addresses the immediate needs of the Filipino people. 
Our  goals  are  guided  by  our  article  of  faith  that  we 
leave  no  one  behind  in  our  development  strides. 
We  are  working  hard  to  ensure  that  each  and  every 
Filipino  will  be  able  to  keep  in  step  with  the  overall 
development pace.
The Philippines continues to enhance the delivery 
and  quality  of  basic  social  services  to  our  people, 
anchored in the implementation of what we view as a 
human  approach  to  development  and  governance.  We 
have  benchmarked  such  services  to  global  standards. 
That is true of our health, education, food, water and 
housing services. Environmental preservation, respect 
for  culture  and  the  pursuit  of  social  justice  form  key 
components of our national development frameworks.
Since  2013,  the  Philippines  has  made  public  its 
support  for  the  core  pillars  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development. The Philippines is honoured 
to be one of the 22 pioneer countries that volunteered 
at  the  High-level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable 
Development to share its initiatives in the first year of 
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. 
If we are to achieve the Sustainable Development 
Goals  in  15  years,  we  need  to  take  a  risk-informed 
approach. It is axiomatic to say that frequent and intense 
natural disasters can negate our gains in the reduction 
of poverty and even push back development.
The  Philippines  is  one  of  the  most  disaster-prone 
countries.  It  is  also  vulnerable  to  the  adverse  effects 
of climate, change owing to many years of neglect and 
selfish practices by various countries. This has left us 
far behind in progress, because of their irresponsibility 
and  greed  at  our  expense.  We  reiterate  our  call  for 
climate justice and the principle of equity and common 
but differentiated responsibility in the implementation 
of  the  obligations  under  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change.
The Philippines will remain a responsible partner 
of the international community. Our domestic concerns 
compel  us  to  partner  with  like-minded  countries  in 
the  areas  of  maritime  security,  counter-terrorism, 
disaster response and transnational crime such as, but 
not  limited  to,  trafficking  in  drugs  and  humans.  Our 
commitment to the rule of law, peace, our people and 
our  relations  with  the  international  community  also 
extends to the recent decision of the Arbitral Tribunal of 
the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague with 
regard to disputes in the South China Sea. The decision 
has  upheld  the  primacy  of  international  law  as  the 
cornerstone for a rules-based regional and international 
order.  The  arbitral  award,  which  is  final  and  binding 
on all parties, is a clearly established legal fact that is 
now part of international jurisprudence in the maritime 
domain,  in  accordance  with  the  1982  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea.
We  reaffirm  our  abiding  commitment  to  pursue 
the  peaceful  resolution  and  management  of  disputes 
with  a  view  to  promoting  and  enhancing  peace  and 
stability  in  the  region.  We  need  to  fully  respect  legal 
and  diplomatic  processes  as  we  explore  the  best  way 
forward. We reaffirm the need to enhance mutual trust 
and confidence. We must not overlook the importance 
of  non-militarization  and  self-restraint  in  the  conduct 
of all activities, including maintaining the freedom of 
navigation,  the  full  and  effective  implementation  of 
the 2002 Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the 
South China Sea and the adoption of an effective code 
of conduct.
Over  the  past  71  years,  the  United  Nations  has 
demonstrated continuing resilience and relevance in the 
face  of  intractable  challenges  and  emerging  regional 
threats,  both  traditional  and  non-traditional.  With  the 
adoption  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  the 
United  Nations  has  rightly  returned  development  to 
the  centre  of  global  efforts  to  pursue  peace,  security 
and stability.
16-29817
3/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
The  Philippines,  as  a  founding  Member  of  the 
United  Nations,  walks  with  and  works  with  the 
community of nations in truly transforming our world, 
where  the  universal  values  of  equality,  tolerance  and 
human  dignity  must  prevail.  As  we  reason  together 
in  this  honoured  Hall  of  the  United  Nations,  let  us 
together move our development goals forward. For us 
to  build  our  future,  we  must  honour  our  past.  As  we 
reaffirm our common humanity, we have to keep faith 
with one another as we advance our noblest and highest 
aspirations based on our collective will and pursue our 
varying and often disparate national interests.
Despite  the  odds  and  the  complex  challenges,  we 
must press on, with courage and fortitude, for the sake of 
our peoples and seize the promise of a better tomorrow 
for future generations. Let us not forget — to borrow the 
words of a distinguished member of humankind — that 
in  our  determination  to  transform  the  world,  it  is  not 
enough to see things as they are and ask, “Why?” Let us 
all dream of things that never were and ask, “Why not?”
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Sheikh  Abdullah  Bin  Zayed  Al  Nahyan,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of  the 
United Arab Emirates.
Sheikh Al Nahyan (United Arab Emirates) (spoke 
in Arabic): At the outset, I am pleased to congratulate 
His Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson on his assumption 
of  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-first  session  and  to  reaffirm  the  United  Arab 
Emirates’  support  for  his  efforts  during  his  term.  I 
would also like to express my thanks and appreciation 
to his predecessor, Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, for his wise 
leadership during the previous session.
In  our  region  and  beyond,  several  countries  have 
confronted multiple ongoing crises and conflicts since 
2011.  A  number  of  Arab  countries,  including  Yemen, 
Libya,  Iraq,  Syria  and  Somalia,  have  descended  into 
internal  fighting.  At  the  same  time,  the  plight  of  the 
Palestinian  people  persists  under  Israeli  occupation 
without  a  just  solution  on  the  horizon,  one  that  could 
restore  the  rights  stripped  from  the  Palestinians  and 
establish  their  State  based  on  the  June  1967  borders, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital.
Furthermore, regional interference in Arab affairs, 
perpetrated mainly by Iran — the only country in the 
world  with  a  Constitution  that  explicitly  calls  for  the 
export of its revolution — has aggravated conflicts in 
the region. The past few years have shown that solutions 
based on crisis management are ineffective. Therefore, 
joint international efforts must focus on resolving the 
crises and conflicts — not just managing them.
We are all aware of the violence and terrorism around 
us, which have taken unprecedented forms, relying on 
heinous methods and causing fear and terror not only in 
the Middle East, but also in many countries worldwide. 
That demonstrates that violence and terrorism must no 
longer  be  associated  with  a  single  State  or  region,  as 
they are global threats that recognize no borders. The 
serious  challenges  facing  our  region  and  many  other 
countries  require  our  joint  consideration  of  ways  to 
address  them  and  reach  consensual,  timely,  effective 
solutions, without undermining the ongoing significant 
efforts in that regard.
Countering terrorist groups is a right and duty of 
all  States.  However,  resorting  to  laws  that  ignore  the 
effective role played by a number of States in counter-
terrorism would lead to suffering in many States. In that 
respect, we recall the so-called Justice against Sponsors 
of Terrorism Act in the United States of America, which 
has resulted in arbitrary policies and the destabilization 
of  existing  strong  relationships  among  allies. I  will 
attempt to present some thoughts on ways to diagnose 
the crises and determine potential solutions.
For example, Iraq has been suffering for more than 
a decade from nearly daily acts of sectarian violence. 
Iin addition, a part of its territory is under the control 
of terrorist groups, thus spreading fear and terror in the 
hearts of the Iraqi people and undermining the region’s 
integrity.  Moreover,  interference  by  Iran  in  Iraq’s 
internal affairs has exacerbated divisiveness among the 
Iraqi  people.  Yet  there  is  no  comprehensive  political 
solution  that  can  promote  consensus  among  the  Iraqi 
people and put an end to the marginalization of whole 
sections of Iraqi society.
What have the effective Powers done in that regard? 
What have the prominent Powers capable of addressing 
those serious crises done? Those Powers, or so-called 
super-Powers, have simply tried to minimize the impact 
without resolving the crisis. That approach has merely 
made the crises increasingly complex, with the collapse 
of State institutions and the emergence of terrorism and 
extremism.  Thathasled  to  the  high  price  being  paid, 
especially in terms of the loss of life on the part of the 
region’s children, as well as their futures.
We  find  that  Iran,  as  a  result  of  its  expansionist 
regional  policies,  has  led  the  region  to  the  brink  of 
4/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
disaster.  Through  its  constant  interference  in  the 
internal affairs of neighbouring countries, it has played 
the  greatest  role  in  causing  tension  and  instability  in 
the  region.  Despite  the  so-called  nuclear  agreement 
reached  between  Tehran  and  the  P5+1  —  which  was 
welcomed  by  countries  in  the  region  in  the  hope  that 
the  deal  would  change  Iran’s  hostile  approach  —  and 
despite all of the optimistic expectations, we have faced 
a  different  reality  in  that  Iran  has  wasted  no  time  in 
pursuing efforts to undermine regional security through 
aggressive  rhetoric,  blatant  interference,  the  training 
and  arming  of  militias  and  the  development  of  its 
ballistic missile programme. Iran has been designated a 
State sponsor of terrorism, in itself quite alarming. Yet, 
despite all of the above, Tehran has refused to rescind 
its policies, which means that in order to confront and 
solve the crises, we must deal with Iran’s behaviour.
A further example of that trend can be seen in the 
decision of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
to develop its nuclear and ballistic capacities and carry 
out  regular  testing,  which  threatens  its  neighbours’ 
security,  as  well  as  international  peace  and  security, 
and is clearly contrary to the most fundamental rules of 
international law. The same can be said of the crises in 
Libya, Syria, Yemen and Somalia. The lack of awareness 
of those crises and the lack of timely responses aimed 
at preventing the exacerbation of the suffering of many 
people are evident in the current developments in the 
Arab region, where the repercussions of certain crises 
have gone beyond borders.
The ensuing refugee crisis and mass exodus from 
conflict  areas  and  the  consequent  pressures  on  many 
countries  have  indicated  the  need  to  work  together 
within  and  beyond  our  region  to  develop  solutions 
that  rise  above  individual  interests.  That  provides  yet 
another example of how ignoring crises or settling for 
managing them, rather than finding tangible solutions, 
has  further  exacerbated  the  crises  and  transformed 
the  situation  into  one  that  is  more  complex  and 
compartmentalized. 
Despite  the  gravity  of  the  crises  that  we  all  face, 
finding solutions is not impossible, if the international 
community and interested sides demonstrate good will 
and the political determination to resolve them. Allow 
me, in that regard, to offer the following thoughts:
First, solutions must be based on justice and respect 
for the law. Without exception, no role should be given 
to any extremist, terrorist or evil party or group under 
any  circumstances.  We  call  on  Iran  and  all  regional 
parties to abandon the evil role that they are playing, 
which incites sectarianism and further ignites tension. 
Secondly,  we  must  attempt  to  resolve  some  of  the 
fundamental  crises  in  a  number  of  countries  in  the 
region, which is key to finding solutions to other crises, 
particularly in Yemen and Libya.
In Yemen, there have been a number of initiatives, 
including  an  effective  road  map  put  forward  by  the 
legitimate  Government  of  Yemen,  now  in  Kuwait, 
and at the Quartet meeting held in Jeddah in August, 
that  could  have  saved  the  Yemeni  people  from  their 
suffering.  We  hope  that  those  efforts  can  result  in  a 
political solution — if the intentions of the militias in 
Yemen are sincere and if they live up to the standards 
of  the  international  community  and  uphold  their 
responsibilities as Yemeni nationals.
The United Arab Emirates also welcomes the Skhirat 
Agreement reached by the parties in Libya, as well as the 
formation of the Government of National Accord. We 
hope that it will lead to constitution-building in Libya 
and  strengthen  cooperation  between  the  Presidential 
Council  and  the  House  of  Representatives,  which  are 
the  legitimate  representatives  of  the  Libyan  people. 
That  would  result  in  a  more  unified  Libyan  national 
Administration capable of protecting Libya’s territorial 
integrity and maintaining the unity of the people.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  sees  no  possibility  of 
resolving the Syrian crisis through anything other than 
a political solution. There is no possibility of resolving 
it  through  military  force.  To  date,  that  path  has  only 
intensified  the  suffering  of  the  fraternal  people  of 
Syria  and  led  to  increased  flows  of  refugees  to  other 
countries. The crisis has been further complicated by 
interference on the part of Iran and its terrorist militias 
in Syrian affairs. That has distorted the vision for Syria 
and derailed it from the existing path.
Our  hearts  bleed  when  we  see  the  brotherly 
people  of  Syria  attempting  to  flee  from  death.  We 
are  deeply  saddened  that  the  Syrian  people,  known 
for  their  dignity  and  ancient  civilization,  are  forced 
by  the  ongoing  fighting  in  their  country  to  fall  into 
the  hands  of  an  unknown  fate,  a  fate  that  began  with 
forced displacement, with no end in sight. In addition, 
they  experience  humiliation  as  they  are  turned  away 
from the borders of other countries. The repercussions 
of  the  Syrian  crisis  —  and  the  impact  of  violence, 
16-29817
5/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
displacement  and  an  uncertain  future  —  will  affect 
future generations of Syrians. 
These  examples  affirm  the  regional  view  that 
settling  for  crisis  management,  repeating  charitable 
humanitarian efforts or holding recurring international 
conferences will not substitute for solving those crises.
Despite the complexity of the crises overtaking our 
region, there is still hope for overcoming and resolving 
them.  That  is  evident  in  the  solutions  adopted  by  the 
United  Arab  Emirates  and  the  brotherly  Kingdom  of 
Saudi  Arabia,  which  will,  we  hope,  have  a  positive 
impact  on  other  countries  in  the  region.  The  United 
Arab Emirates firmly believes in the values of justice, 
international law, human rights and good governance. 
We  wish  to  provide  an  enhanced  environment  of 
happiness for our citizens and residents. We believe that 
true development does not focus solely on the economic 
factors but also on the people themselves, based on the 
principles  of  tolerance,  the  acceptance  of  others  and 
equality for all. 
The  empowerment  of  women  is  a  central  policy 
in  my  country,  based  on  a  belief  in  the  pioneering 
societal  role  they  play.  The  education  of  our  citizens 
is also a priority, and we have developed policies and 
legislation to reflect that.  We believe that the essential 
framework to achieve those goals should be based on 
protecting the State, in particular from extremism and 
sectarianism.  That  would  solidify  and  strengthen  our 
State against factors of disintegration and collapse that 
have threatened other countries in the region. 
In  that  regard,  we  have  established  the  Hedayah 
Centre to counter extremism and have participated with 
the  United  States  in  the  establishment  of  the  Sawab 
Centre. Additionally, the Muslim Council of Elders and 
the  Forum  for  Promoting  Peace  in  Muslim  Societies 
were established to show the true face of Islam. Those 
institutions aim to protect young people who have been 
attracted  by  extremist,  sectarian  and  terrorist  groups 
and counter the false claims of such groups.
The crisis in our region should not distract us from 
our core national cause, which is United Arab Emirates 
sovereignty  over  its  three  islands  of  Greater  Tunb, 
Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa, which are being occupied 
by Iran against the provisions of international law and 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  My  country  has 
called  on  our  neighbour  Iran  time  and  time  again  to 
return  those  occupied  islands  to  their  rightful  owner, 
the  United  Arab  Emirates,  either  voluntarily  through 
peaceful  means  or  through  international  justice  and 
arbitration. in order to maintain friendly, neighbourly 
relations in the Persian Gulf. We will never give up our 
sovereign right over those islands, and our approach is 
based on the principles of international law.
Our faith in the role of the United Nations and its 
organs, especially the Security Council, in maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  is  unwavering.  We 
expect the United Nations to play an effective and vital 
role in resolving conflicts, strengthening the ability of 
States to resolve conflicts through a framework based 
on respect for national sovereignty and non-interference 
in the internal affairs of States. 
TTo enable the Security Council to carry out that 
role, the Council members need to work together for the 
benefit and well-being of our region. In order to ensure 
that  the  United  Nations  is  effective  in  a  multipolar 
world, we must grant the General Assembly a greater 
role and pay more attention to early planning so as to 
promote security and stability. We can do that through 
constructive  strategies  and  programmes  that  aim  to 
achieve  sustainable  development,  eradicate  poverty, 
fight inequality, address climate change, defend human 
rights and much more. 
We  are  firmly  convinced  that  the  effectiveness 
of  the  United  Nations  and  its  principal  organs  can  be 
achieved through institutional cooperation with regional 
organizations, using clear mechanisms of cooperation, 
and  that  such  cooperation  is  the  cornerstone  of  the 
United Nations work. 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  looks  forward  to 
working  with  the  incoming  Secretary-General  with  a 
view  to  promoting  the  work  and  effectiveness  of  the 
United  Nations,  so  as  to  ensure  further  progress  and 
find solutions to conflicts, as well as build the capacities 
required to maintain international peace and security.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Ibrahim Ahmed Abd al-Aziz Ghandour, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Sudan.
Mr. Ghandour (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): It is my 
great  pleasure,  in  my  personal  capacity  as  well as  on 
behalf of the Government and the people of the Republic 
of  the  Sudan,  to  convey  my  desire  for  the  successful 
outcome  of  these  deliberations  during  this  important 
session of the General Assembly. Our agenda is one of 
hope for a better and more prosperous future. We must 
6/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
consider the issues of peace and security, development, 
human rights, and humanitarian matters in particular. 
It is also my pleasure to express my congratulations 
to  Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-first session. I would also like 
to  express  our  gratitude  to  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  for 
the skilful and wise manner in which he led the work of 
the Assembly at the previous session.
The  high-level  general  debate  of  this  session 
is  taking  place  under  the  theme  “The  Sustainable 
Development  Goals:  a  universal  push  to  transform 
our  world”.  That  reflects  the  interest  of  the  United 
Nations  in  realizing  the  hopes  and  aspirations  of  our 
countries  and  our  peoples,  in  achieving  sustainable 
development and prosperity for future generations, in 
eradicating poverty and disparities among people, and 
in  protecting  our  planet  and  promoting  sustainable 
development 
international  partnerships, 
where  all  stakeholders  are  involved.  We  hope  that  all 
stakeholders will respect their commitments to achieve 
that  objective  in  order  to  avoid  the  repercussions  of 
poverty,  for  we  are  aware  that  poverty,  regardless  of 
where it is, threatens prosperity throughout the world.
through 
My  country 
today  reaffirms 
its  unwavering 
commitment to the principles enshrined in the Charter of 
the United Nations. We reaffirm our interest in the need 
to continue efforts to reform this institution and develop 
its  structures.  We  hope  that  the  regional  coalitions 
calling  for  General  Assembly  and  Security  Council 
reform do not go unheeded, so that the United Nations 
can  truly  become  a  platform  for  the  implementation 
of international legality and a guarantor of justice and 
development  throughout  our  world.  I  would  like  to 
reaffirm  my  country’s  commitment  to  dialogue  with 
the  international  community  aimed  at  strengthening 
values such as international justice and the fight against 
impunity  through  international  mechanisms  that  are 
neither selective nor politicized.
In  our  view  it  is  clear  that  the  Rome  Statute  of 
the International Criminal Court (ICC), which should 
seek  to  enforce  justice  throughout  the  world,  in  fact 
hinders peace in its practical reality. That can be seen 
in the regions where it undertakes action, particularly 
in  Africa.  The  African  States  therefore  call  for  the 
drafting  of  a  plan  to  collectively  withdraw  from  the 
ICC. It is crucial that a distinction be drawn between 
justice and the politicization of justice.
To achieve peace, we have to strive to work together. 
This  is  one  of  our  favourite  topics.  I  would  like  to 
express our gratitude to all those who have endeavoured 
to achieve this very noble objective. Furthermore, I can 
confirm  that  we  are  going  to  knock  on  every  single 
door of peace, and dialogue will be the only solution. 
Accordingly,  my  Government  has  spared  no  effort  to 
ensure that peace prevails. Today, we are strengthening 
our  social  fabric  and  continuing  our  efforts  aimed  at 
rebuilding my country.
Thanks to God and thanks to the determination of 
my country and of the loyal people of the Sudan, Darfur 
has  become  a  safe  region,  where  peace  and  security 
have  prevailed.  The  United  Nations  is  a  witness  to 
this  fact.  The  Government  of  the  Sudan  calls  for  the 
implementation  of  the  plan  for  the  withdrawal  of  the 
African  Union-United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in 
Darfur  (UNAMID).  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  from 
this  high  rostrum  that  the  Government  of  the  Sudan 
reiterates  its  call  to  have  UNAMID  forces  withdraw, 
for there are no more reasons for their presence there. 
Those forces could be deployed elsewhere to serve to 
consolidate  peace  in  the  parts  of  the  world  that  truly 
need it.
The theme of the general debate of this session is 
“The Sustainable Development Goals: a universal push 
to  transform  our  world”.  To  achieve  the  objectives, 
purposes and principles implicit in this theme, we need 
to act together. 
We  also  need  to  act  together  to  achieve  genuine 
momentum in bridging the food gap around the world. 
In this regard, I would like to recall the food security 
initiative  launched  by  the  President  of  the  Republic, 
Mr.  Omar  Hassan  Al-Bashir,  during  the  third  Arab 
Economic  and  Social  Development  Summit,  in  2013. 
This initiative, which was subsequently adopted at the 
Sharm El-Sheikh summit in 2016, serves as one of the 
pillars for food security around the world. I call upon 
the  United  Nations  and  all  specialized  agencies  to 
carry out the necessary studies to ensure the success of 
this initiative. We in the Sudan possess the necessary 
capabilities and skills to move forward on this universal 
push and stand ready to do so.
We  wish  to  fulfil  our  commitments  to  achieve 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  with  a  view  to 
guaranteeing  a  dignified  life  for  all.  But  given  the 
unjustified  unilateral  sanctions  and  the  burden  of  our 
foreign debt, which stands at over $40 billion, that will 
16-29817
7/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
not be easy. When one looks at the interest to be paid 
and the very complex contractual provisions, it is quite 
clear that 40 per cent of this debt is nothing more than 
interest growing on a yearly basis. That debt naturally 
hampers  our  country  and  its  economic  capabilities. 
In  addition,  the  Sudan  is  not  able  to  benefit  from 
international financial support initiatives.
I would also like to state here that the agreement 
on  the  zero  option  for  foreign  debt,  which  we  signed 
after South Sudan split from the Republic of the Sudan, 
terminated in 2014. The agreement was renewed for two 
years, but it is coming to an end this month, without the 
international  commitments  on  our  debts  having  been 
met since 2005. No progress has been made in terms of 
writing  off  those  debts,  even  though  my  country  was 
eligible for it.
The Sudan condemns the phenomenon of terrorism, 
which  is  why  we  have  to  deploy  all  our  efforts 
and  coordinate  with  other  countries  to  contain  the 
phenomenon. What do we need to do? We need to tackle 
the roots of the problem by finding just solutions for the 
international  problems  that  fuel  terrorism:  exclusion, 
marginalization and the failure to uphold the rights of 
people who have been deprived of them. To that end, 
we have hosted a number of workshops, seminars and 
forums,  the  most  recent  of  which  was  entitled  “The 
Role of the Arab Media in Countering Terrorism”. At 
that forum, held in Khartoum in August, the Khartoum 
Declaration  was  adopted.  It  reaffirms  the  importance 
of  combating  terrorism,  the  central  role  of  religious 
discourse,  and  the  need  to  ensure  that  educational 
curriculums focuses on tolerance and acceptance of the 
other.  The  media  need  to  be  used  in  the  right  way  to 
fight this scourge.
Unfortunately,  the  future  of  our  planet  hinges  on 
the  fight  against  such  phenomena  as  the  trafficking 
in  human  beings,  drug  trafficking  and  other  forms 
of  transnational  organized  crime.  These  phenomena 
will  be  eradicated  only  if  we  pool  the  efforts  of  the 
international community and if the States of the world 
cooperate to stop these evils.
Because of the geographical situation of the Sudan, 
some  have  tried  to  take  advantage  of  my  country  by 
making  it  a  platform  for  trafficking  in  human  beings 
and drug trafficking. With the help of the international 
community,  we  are  doing  everything  we  can  to  fight 
this exploitation, particularly by strengthening our law-
enforcement  capabilities  and  drafting  the  necessary 
legislation to improve communication and coordination. 
Thanks be to God, we have made significant progress 
in this area despite the lack of resources.
Israel  continues  to  reject  all  initiatives  aimed  at 
achieving the two-State solution, which is why we have 
to do everything we can to terminate the last colonial 
regime in the world. We have to work to implement the 
two-State  solution  and  create  a  sovereign  Palestinian 
State with East Jerusalem as its capital.
We  attach  the  greatest  importance  to  the  safety, 
security  and  stability  of  South  Sudan,  for  we  have 
historical  blood  ties  with  that  country.  Together  with 
the  Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development  and 
with our partners on the African continent and in the 
international  community  we  will  spare  no  effort  to 
back our brothers in South Sudan and ensure that peace 
and security prevail in that country.
With an eye to calming all other hotbeds of tension 
around the world, we call for a peaceful solution to the 
crisis in Syria. We must move away from any solution 
that  involves  force.  We  must  preserve  the  territorial 
integrity of Syria. With respect to Yemen, we reaffirm 
our support to the Government of President Abdrabuh 
Mansour  Hadi  Mansour.  With  respect  to  Libya,  we 
reaffirm our support for the Government of President 
Faiez Mustafa Serraj and will spare no effort to preserve 
the  territorial  integrity,  security  and  stability  of  the 
country and protect its resources.
I  also  wish  to  reaffirm  the  basic  principle  of  our 
foreign policy, which is non-interference in the affairs 
of others. We reaffirm our support for the stability of 
South Sudan and the Central African Republic. We call 
upon the international community to spare no effort and 
to  leave  no  stone  unturned  in  helping  these  countries 
overcome  the  difficulties  they  are  facing.  The  Sudan 
calls  for  dialogue  and  the  renunciation  of  the  use  of 
force when it comes to managing and settling conflicts 
around the world.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Prak  Sokhonn,  Senior  Minister,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of  the 
Kingdom of Cambodia.
Mr.  Sokhonn  (Cambodia)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
should  like  to  cordially  congratulate  His  Excellency 
Mr. Peter Thomson of the Republic of Fiji on his election 
as President of the Assembly at its seventy-first session. 
With  a  representative  from  a  country  that  is  famous 
8/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
for  the  quality  of  its  rugby  leading  our  work,  we  can 
be assured that our work will be masterfully refereed. 
I  wish  to  join  those  who  have  already  expressed  our 
collective gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, 
who in his capacity as Secretary-General has spared no 
effort  to  preserve  peace  where  it  is  threatened  and  to 
restore it where violence is raging. The limitations that 
he encountered during his tenure were not his own, but 
those of a United Nations in need of reform.
The general debate provides us with an opportunity 
to  take  stock  of  humankind  and  our  planet.  Each  and 
every  one  of  us  must  make  an  effort  to  express  the 
concerns and expectations of our peoples. We are the 
voices of the world. To say that the world is doing well, 
however, would not be credible. It must be noted that the 
outstanding  progress  made  in  science  and  technology 
has not been used to serve peace or the well-being of 
humankind.
There  is  a  word  that  summarizes  the  tragedy  of 
our world: violence. I speak here of wartime violence, 
terrorist  violence,  violence  towards  civilians  and, 
tragically,  towards  children,  violence  towards  other 
living species that are disappearing in large numbers, 
and  violence  towards  the  planet,  which  is  suffering 
from a degree of turmoil that is threatening the survival 
of humankind itself, such as we know it today. 
How  is  it  that  in  the  twenty-first  century  we  are 
still facing these kinds of challenges? It is not enough 
to simply observe what is already clearly evident. We 
must understand these problems and respond to them. 
Our  generation  and,  above  all,  future  generations 
deserve  a  better  world.  Time  restraints  require  that  I 
focus on just a few topics. 
I  would  first  of  all  like  to  address  collective 
security.  The  world  is  reeling  from  an  outbreak  of 
conflicts  ravaging  the  Near  and  Middle  East,  but 
in  other  regions  of  the  world  as  well.  It  is  no  less 
anxious  about  new  tensions  in  other  strategic  regions 
of  the  planet,  as  the  abuse  of  the  right  to  intervene 
has  catastrophic  consequences 
that  destabilize  s 
States and entire regions. We observe the opening up 
of  new  global  divisions  characterized  by  policies  of 
containment, which causes States to mobilize military 
means and results in new alliances that exclude certain 
other States.
The  world  became  unipolar  in  1991  and  has 
since  moved  towards  greater  multipolarity,  which  has 
naturally  generated  strong  resistance  and  troubling 
types  of  behaviour.  Should  countries  large  in  size, 
population  or  economic  power  be  absent  from  the 
Security Council? It is clear that the system of collective 
security that was implemented in 1945, and which was 
adapted to the bipolar world left in the wake of the Cold 
War, is now in great distress. 
A  small  country  such  as  my  own  too  often 
feels  pressure  to  choose  sides  and  tries  to  reach 
understandings with other countries in order to give a 
voice to those who are scarcely listened to and who are 
always the first to suffer from geopolitical decisions. We 
have travelled that road before and have been subjected 
to a proxy war. Moreover, we cannot simply articulate 
the  anguish  of  new  escalating  dangers.  Together  with 
all countries that are willing, we want to work to strike 
a new global balance that respects the realities of the 
twenty-first  century.  When  tensions  do  emerge,  we 
believe that our role is not to become embroiled in them 
but to enter into dialogue and do everything we can to 
contribute to the peaceful solution of disputes.
Current  events  force  me  to  address  the  issue  of 
terrorism and, more specifically, its root causes. Is such 
fanaticism not just the violent expression of anger? Such 
anger must be analysed. There are too many injustices 
and inequalities in our world. More importantly, there 
is an overly systematic two-tier system when it comes to 
decision-making. International law is imposed on some 
while others are exempted. With regard to religion, each 
Government must ensure, as we have successfully done 
in Cambodia, that members of all faiths can peacefully 
and respectfully live together in tolerance. 
How can we overlook the tragedy of the Palestinian 
people, whose rights have been violated for 70 years? 
This tragedy has fed the revolt in the Arab world and 
hatred among the most indignant. An entire population’s 
rights have been denied for decades. When faced with 
such a fact, how can we not understand that discourse 
on universal values and international law is no longer 
credible? 
We hold no illusions; terrorism will be eradicated 
only when the principal reasons for becoming a terrorist 
no longer exist.
I  would  like  to  make  a  short  comment  on  the 
economy.  We  now  have  sufficient  experience  in  that 
area  to  evaluate  the  globalization  born  from  World 
Trade  Organization  agreements  and  subsequent  free 
trade  agreements.  Such  experience  has  allowed  us  to 
make  progress  through  the  liberalization  of  markets, 
16-29817
9/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
but it has also shown us that real dangers emerge when 
corporations are given rights that allow them to conduct 
their  business  in  any  way  they  see  fit.  Continuous 
blackmail in favour of offshoring is a major obstacle to 
a country like mine, where we are working to improve 
working  conditions  and  the  standard  of  living,  which 
remains low.
I wish to share in the collective satisfaction following 
the agreement last December at the twenty-first session 
of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change.  We  also 
welcome the fact that the two principal contributors to 
global warming have confirmed their involvement and 
determination. Sometimes deception is employed when 
it comes to respecting treaties, but it is an undeniable 
truth that we cannot deceive our planet. If the twenty-
first session of the Conference of the Parties does not 
lead to concrete actions taken by all parties, there will 
be  terrible  and  unstoppable  consequences,  leading  to 
a series of destructive phenomena that will create new 
levels of suffering.
I now turn to the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs). The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
embodies  a  series  of  very  ambitious  objectives.  Such 
ambitions  need  to  be  matched,  however,  with  a 
corresponding level of true political will. In that regard, 
I would like to highlight the responsibility of wealthy 
countries, which have the necessary resources to make 
the  Goals  a  reality.  Although  the  world  has  indeed 
made  great  progress  in  terms  of  human  development 
since  1990,  we  should  pay  particular  attention  to  two 
facts  provided  by  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme: there are more than 2 billion people living 
in poverty in the world and 1.2 billion people living on 
less  than  $1.25  per  day.  If  we  take  into  consideration 
those  two  figures  alone,  the  17  SDGs  become  even 
more urgent.
  I  would  like  to  conclude  by  speaking  about  my 
country, Cambodia. International institutions, Western 
parliamentarians and some Western non-governmental 
organizations  (NGOs)  have  pointed  the  finger  and 
tried to lay blame. However, I do not come before the 
Assembly as an accused party. I am addressing those 
present  on  behalf  of  a  country  that  is  often  judged 
negatively,  and  even  more  often  unrecognized  and 
misunderstood,  especially  by  the  Western  world.  I 
come  here  with  confidence.  Many  of  us  here  refuse 
to see the international community conflated with the 
Western community and its opinions.
I am a survivor of the atrocities of Pol Pot and of a 
country that was turned into an immense forced labour 
camp. After United States Air Force bombers completely 
destroyed  us,  our  country  endured 
the  extreme 
suffering brought on by one of the cruelest regimes of 
the twentieth century. I must therefore recall that in the 
wake of such affliction in Cambodia in 1979, Viet Nam 
was  the  only  member  of  the  international  community 
to  respond  to  the  call  of  those  fleeing  the  genocidal 
regime.  Our  population  of  8  million  inhabitants  in 
1970  had  been  reduced  to  some  4.5  million  by  1979. 
The  State,  central  and  local  Governments,  hospitals, 
schools,  our  currency  and  religion  had  all  ceased  to 
exist. The roads were damaged and infrastructure and 
institutions had disappeared. In 1979, all that remained 
in Cambodia were 8 of our 750 lawyers, 45 of our 450 
doctors  and  7,000  of  our  22,000  teachers.  A  total  of 
54 per cent of all medical personnel were gone, and of 
our 1,600 agricultural technicians, only 200 were still 
alive.
In 1979, the survivors were in extremely debilitated 
physical and mental states. Nevertheless, they were still 
punished for having been freed by a country that had 
done nothing to please the coalition that for over 11 years 
caused  total  destruction  in  the  country,  traumatized 
the  survivors  and  imposed  a  crippling  embargo  that 
prohibited  all  development  aid.  We  had  nothing  and 
we were deprived of everything. Given that, Members 
of  the  Assembly  might  wonder  why  would  I  want  to 
bring  up  the  past.  I  do  so  because  it  is  a  past  that  is 
not yet in the past. How do we not understand that the 
past continues to deeply affect the present? How do we 
not understand that the past continues to weigh upon us 
today in terms of human resources?
In the West, some NGOs, media and Governments 
describe  even  our  slightest  shortcomings  as  crimes 
of the State. With the Paris accords, we were obliged 
to  accept  a  perfect  model  of  democracy  that  took  no 
account of the specificities of our country or the human 
resources required to implement it. We are now being 
criticized for disregarding the rights of the opposition. 
At  the  same  time,  however,  the  western  NGOs  and 
Governments  that  support  the  political  opposition 
claim that we are violating our laws and not punishing 
crimes  that  undermine  our  national  security,  such  as 
defamation,  calumny,  incitement  to  racial  hatred  and 
the production of fake treaties and identification cards. 
Meanwhile, it is the opposition that is committing these 
crimes.
10/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
We have made considerable progress in education, 
health  care  and  infrastructure.  Similarly,  we  have 
successfully  fought  AIDS  and  malaria.  We  have 
undertaken a long and difficult fight against corruption. 
Our  Ministries  of  the  Environment  and  Agriculture 
are  striving  to  correct  the  mistakes  that  have  been 
made  with  respect  to  forestry  licenses.  The  poverty 
rate has dropped every year by 1 per cent and we have 
experienced an average growth rate of more than 7 per 
cent since 1994.
In Cambodia, we are addressing an issues that can 
truly  hinder  sustainable  development  —  mines  and 
explosive remnants of war. We have made the eradication 
of  these  deadly  devices  an  eighteenth  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  in  Cambodia,  similar  to  what 
we  did  with  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Our  country,  which  has  gained  has  considerable  and 
painful experience in demining, has been participating 
in  peacekeeping  operations  by  sending  demining 
contingents  since  2006.  Currently,  more  than  900 
women  and  men  of  these  contingents,  as  well  as 
engineers,  doctors  and  military  police,  are  working 
in  Lebanon,  Mali,  the  Central  African  Republic,  the 
Sudan and South Sudan.
Regarding climate change, I am pleased to announce 
that  just  yesterday  we  completed  the  procedure  of 
ratifying the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
We  have  known  the  extreme  horrors  of  war. 
More  than  others,  we  understand  the  price  of  peace, 
and  we  prioritize  peaceful  conflict  resolution  in 
all  circumstances,  sometimes  at  the  risk  of  being 
misunderstood. Lastly, our exceptionally difficult past 
has  made  us  part  and  parcel  of  the  network  of  States 
that are committed to preventing mass crimes. To that 
end,  and  with  regard  to  the  responsibility  to  protect 
(R2P), we have designated the individual who will be 
our  national  correspondent  to  the  Global  Network  of 
R2P Focal Points, proposed by the United Nations. 
Based on this assessment, does our country deserve 
to be subjected to Western obloquy? We will let those 
present be the judges.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms.  Maxime  Pamela  Ometa  McClean,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Barbados.
Ms.  McClean  (Barbados):  I  am  pleased  today  to 
congratulate  Mr.  Thomson  on  his  assumption  of  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
first session. The Government of Barbados is pleased 
that Fiji, a fellow small island developing State (SIDS), 
has  been  elevated  to  such  an  important  office.  Forty-
six  years  ago,  the  Prime  Minister  of  Barbados,  The 
Honourable  Errol  Walton  Barrow,  in  his  address  to 
this  body,  congratulated  Fiji  on  its  attainment  of 
independence  (see  A/PV.1866).  He  pointed  out  that 
Barbados  was  especially  pleased  to  have  been  one  of 
the sponsors of resolution 2622 (XXV), admitting Fiji 
to the United Nations. I assure the President of the full 
support and cooperation of the Barbados delegation as 
he discharges his duties.
I  extend  sincere  thanks  to  his  predecessor,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft,  for  his  steady 
guidance of the work of the General Assembly during 
its seventieth session.
I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  recognize  the 
contribution  of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon, 
whose tenure is drawing to an end. Secretary-General 
Ban has been a dedicated and committed leader of the 
Organization. He has been a friend of SIDS, including 
Barbados.  The  Government  of  Barbados  extends 
sincere  appreciation  for  his  dedicated  global  service 
during a turbulent but productive period.
The  seventy-first  session  is  of  deep  significance 
to Barbados. It coincides with the celebration this year 
of  two  historic  anniversaries.  On  30  November,  we 
celebrate our fiftieth anniversary of independence and 
nationhood, followed closely by our fiftieth anniversary 
of membership in the United Nations.
One of the cornerstones on which the foreign policy 
of  Barbados  is  built  is  our  unwavering  commitment 
to  the  United  Nations.  We  see  the  United  Nations  as 
the  core  of  an  effective  multilateral  system,  with 
responsibility  for  addressing  issues  of  international 
peace,  security  and  development.  Today,  50  years 
on,  Barbados  stands  more  firmly  committed  to  the 
principle  of  multilateralism.  For  the  United  Nations 
to  deliver  on  our  expectations,  its  organizational 
structure  must  reflect  the  geopolitical  realities  of  the 
twenty-first  century.  We  therefore  support  efforts 
to  reform  the  Security  Council  and  to  revitalize  the 
General Assembly.
The theme of this year’s General Assembly is “The 
Sustainable  Development  Goals:  a  universal  push  to 
transform our world”. We must act now to make the vision 
of 2030 a reality. Barbados believes that partnership and 
collaboration will be the keys to fulfilling the promise 
16-29817
11/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. That 
is especially true for SIDS.
The  Prime  Minister  of  Barbados,  Mr.  Freundel 
Stuart,  addressed  this  theme  in  his  statement  to  the 
Alliance  of  Small  Island  States  Leaders’  Conference, 
held in the margins of the Third International Conference 
on Small Island Developing States in September 2014. 
Prime  Minister  Stuart  highlighted  the  importance  of 
United  Nations  support  for  the  implementation  of  the 
SIDS Agenda. We therefore welcome the progress made 
by the Joint Inspection Unit (JIU) in its comprehensive 
review  of  the  United  Nations  system’s  support  for 
SIDS, and we look forward to tangible improvements 
as a result of its work.
in  Barbados,  of 
Last  week,  I  was  pleased  to  participate  in  the 
the  Caribbean  Human 
launch, 
Development Report 2016. The theme of the report is 
“Multidimensional progress: human resilience beyond 
income”. It highlights the unique situation of the small 
island  developing  States  and  low-lying  coastal  States 
in  the  Caribbean.  Three  central  issues  stand  out: 
vulnerability,  resilience  and  sustainability.  Barbados 
welcomes 
the  consistent 
call  by  the  Heads  of  Government  of  the  Caribbean 
Community (CARICOM), and of SIDS in general, for 
SIDS to be recognized as a special case for sustainable 
development. 
the  report.  It  validates 
The  Government  of  Barbados  is  devising  and 
implementing effective strategies to strengthen social, 
economic and environmental resilience that is consistent 
with our national growth and development philosophy. 
It  is  based  on  supporting  a  Barbados  that  is  socially 
balanced, 
environmentally 
sound,  and  characterized  by  good  governance  —  our 
four  strategic  pillars.  We  are  therefore  pleased  that 
Barbados  is  already  pursuing  the  ideals  enshrined  in 
Agenda 2030.
economically 
viable, 
The existential threat which climate change poses 
to small island developing States like Barbados is well 
documented. We are a leading advocate for coordinated 
action at the international level to address the sources 
and  consequences  of  our  vulnerability.  The  Prime 
Minister  of  Barbados  was  one  of  the  leaders  who 
participated  in  the  formal  signing  ceremony  of  the 
landmark Paris Agreement on Climate Change in April. 
He deposited the instrument of ratification on the same 
occasion. We look forward to its early entry into force. 
At the national level, Barbados has developed a national 
climate change policy framework that works seamlessly 
with  the  Barbados  sustainable  development  policy  to 
address issues of climate adaptation and mitigation.
Barbados  exercises  jurisdiction  over  maritime 
space that far exceeds its very limited land territory. We 
therefore recognize the vast potential of the ocean and 
its sustainable exploitation as an important component 
of  our  future  development.  We  are  also  developing  a 
comprehensive  national  ocean  governance  strategyto 
address  the  sustainable  management  of  our  maritime 
space  and  the  sustainable  use  of  Barbados’  marine 
living and non-living resources. 
As we seek to protect and preserve our oceans and 
seas  for  future  generations,  Barbados  will  continue 
to  participate  actively  in  the  various  oceans-related 
processes  of  the  United  Nations.  During  the  current 
session,  my  delegation  will  collaborate  with  other 
members  of  the  Association  of  Caribbean  States  to 
strengthen  the  level  of  support  for  the  Caribbean  Sea 
resolution.  Our  ultimate  aim  is  the  designation  of 
the  Caribbean  Sea  as  a  special  area  in  the  context  of 
sustainable development. We count on your support.
Barbadians  are  a  proud  and  industrious  people. 
With minimal natural resources and the constraints of 
small size and vulnerability to natural and man-made 
disasters, our people have achieved a significant level 
of  human  development  in  50  years  of  independence. 
We  have  done  so  by  dint  of  hard  work,  sacrifice  and 
faith.  We  remain  resolute  in  our  determination  to 
overcome  the  many  obstacles  we  face:  the  unilateral 
and unidimensional graduation policies of international 
development  agencies  that  penalize  us  for  progress 
in  human  development,  while  ignoring  our  obvious 
vulnerabilities;  the  negative  impact  of  the  economic 
and  financial  decisions  of  international  financial  and 
other  institutions,  illustrated  by  the  consequences 
of  de-risking  on  correspondent  banking  activity; 
and  the  persistent  and  unwarranted  attacks  on  our 
international  financial  services  sector,  accompanied 
by  the  imposition  of  onerous  conditionalities.  Those 
actions threaten our economic stability and our ability 
to  participate  in  global  financial,  trade  and  economic 
systems.  They  undermine  our  capacity  to  achieve  the 
full  implementation  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals. We call for dialogue with development partners 
and greater policy space and policy flexibility for SIDS.
The  United  Nations  was  born  of  the  post-war 
desire  of  nations  for  international  peace  and  security. 
12/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
Barbados is a firm proponent of the rule of law at the 
national, regional and international levels. We reiterate 
our  commitment  to  maintaining  the  Caribbean  as  a 
zone  of  peace.  In  that  context,  Barbados  reaffirms 
its  unwavering  support  for  the  territorial  integrity  of 
fellow CARICOM States Belize and Guyana. We call 
for definitive solutions to their long-standing disputes 
with  neighbouring  States  Guatemala  and  Venezuela. 
Barbados welcomes the recent steady progress towards 
the  normalization  of  bilateral  relations  between  Cuba 
and  the  United  States  of  America.  We  look  forward 
to  the  dismantling  of  the  final  vestiges  of  that  long-
standing embargo.
On that memorable evening on 30 November 1966, 
as the national flag of Barbados was unfurled for the 
first time, there was a sense of exultation, expectation 
and pride. Our first Prime Minister stated in his first 
address to the General Assembly:
later,  we  believe 
“Humility must be the most appropriate feeling 
for the leader of a State admitted to membership of 
this illustrious Assembly on the basis of sovereign 
equality.” (A/PV.1487, para. 72)
Half  a  century 
that  both 
independence  and  membership  in  the  United  Nations 
have served us well and afforded us the opportunity to 
pursue the goals which have informed the progress that 
we have achieved. Looking forward, we are committed 
to the successful implementation of the 2030 Agenda. 
We  expect  it  to  guarantee  further  development  of 
the  Barbadian  economy  and  society  and  to  serve  as 
our  contribution  to  the  universal  push  to  transform 
our world.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Alain  Aimé  Nyamitwe,  Minister  for 
External Relations and International Cooperation of the 
Republic of Burundi.
Mr.  Nyamitwe  (Burundi)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
would  like  to  thank  our  Lord,  who  has  watched  over 
us  on  our  journey  and  enabled  us  to  be  here  for  this 
important meeting of the United Nations.
On behalf of Mr. Pierre Nkurunziza, President of 
the Republic of Burundi, and of the entire Burundian 
people, I would like to congratulate Mr. Peter Thomson, 
a worthy son of Fiji, on his election on 13 June to the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its seventy-first 
session. He will always be able to count on Burundi’s 
full  cooperation  during  his  tenure.  I  also  commend 
Mr.  Mogens  Lykketoft  for  his  excellent  work  in 
presiding with brio over the seventieth session, which 
he brought to a delightful close on 13 September.
I  would  also  like  to  reiterate  our  confidence 
in  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon.  Burundi  will 
cooperate  fully  with  him  during  the  remainder  of 
his  term  and  wishes  him  health,  happiness  and  every 
success in his future work. We would also like to convey 
our best wishes to the new Secretary-General, who will 
be starting at a very important moment for the world.
(spoke in English)
Regarding 
the 
inter-Burundian  dialogue, 
the 
Government  of  Burundi  has  participated  in  every 
meeting  held  at  the  invitation  of  the  facilitator  of  the 
East African Community (EAC). I would like to inform 
the  Assembly  that  on  8  September,  the  facilitator, 
Mr.  Benjamin  Mkapa,  former  President  of  the  United 
Republic of Tanzania, presented his report to the EAC 
summit, calling for a renewed commitment on the part 
of all stakeholders to engaging in the EAC-led dialogue. 
The Government of the Republic of Burundi is of the 
view that the dialogue should not replace or undermine 
the  democratic  tenets  of  the  country’s  Constitution, 
while  it  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the  dialogue,  as 
expressed at the last EAC summit.
We believe that peaceful political stakeholders, in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Security  Council 
resolutions 2248 (2015) and 2279 (2016), are welcome 
to  discuss  the  future  of  Burundi.  By  the  same  token, 
and  with  a  view  to  opening  up  to  greater  inclusivity, 
our national commission for inter-Burundian dialogue 
has  submitted  its  report  on  six  months  of  discussions 
with Burundians from all walks of life, from grassroots 
communities  to  the  upper  echelons  of  society.  Our 
citizens have called for a number of major reforms for 
improving  Burundi’s  stability  that  cannot  be  ignored, 
and the Government has taken note of them.
I  stand  before  the  Assembly  today  to  reiterate 
Burundi’s unwavering commitment to human rights. A 
well-regarded  national  commission  and  fully  fledged 
ministerial department are in charge of human rights, 
and we should support them. The Government wishes 
to reaffirm its commitment to ensuring the security of 
all our citizens, regardless of their ethnic origin. None 
of the three ethnic groups is above the others, nor is any 
group a pariah. As established in our Constitution, all 
our citizens have equal opportunities.
16-29817
13/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
Currently in Burundi, we are working to consolidate 
security gains in the face of numerous actors with only 
one goal — regime change — and whose methods are 
uniformly violent. It is crucial to ensure great caution 
in assessing the situation. The fact is that rumors, false 
information  and  social  media,  have  all  been  used  to 
portray Burundi in a bad light. I would therefore like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  categorically  reject  the 
deliberattely politically exaggerated reports of alleged 
human  rights  violations  in  Burundi.  Some  cases  have 
been  taken  out  of  context  and  others  blown  out  of 
proportion, with no mention of the security personnel 
who have been killed while on duty. The report I refer to 
(A/HRC/32/30) is marred by its controversial selection 
of  victims,  while  the  method  of  collecting  testimony 
through  WhatsApp  messages  is  a  departure  from 
United  Nations  practices.  Our  Government  will  take 
the  opportunity  to  present  a  comprehensive  counter-
report in Geneva in the next few days.
On 
like 
the  other  hand,  Burundi  would 
to 
reiterate  its  openness  to  the  African  Union’s  human 
rights  monitors  and  military  experts.  The  financial 
and  structural  challenges  that  the  African  Union 
Commission  is  dealing  with,  which  have  stalled  the 
generation of the necessary personnel, are not our fault. 
Regarding the memorandum of understanding between 
Burundi and the Commission, my Government calls on 
the Commission to uphold fully and in good faith the 
terms  of  the  agreement  reached  in  Bujumbura  during 
the meeting in February of the six African Union Heads 
of State and Government.
Regarding Security Council resolution 2303 (2016), 
adopted under Chapter VI of the Charter of the United 
Nations, Burundi was shocked by the lack of consensus 
and the surprise manner in which it was adopted. While 
the consultations before the adoption did not result in 
full approval of the penholder’s proposal, some Council 
members  thought  that  Burundi’s  consent  should  be 
obtained  before  creating  a  fait  accompli.  Resolutions 
under Chapter VI of the Charter are predicated on the 
consent of the Government concerned.
Where the humanitarian situation is concerned, our 
Government has made the return of refugees a priority. 
We are aware of the extremely difficult conditions they 
are  living  in,  mostly  in  neighbouring  countries,  and 
we will spare no effort to enable every one of them to 
return home. We have guaranteed the security of their 
goods and property, and around 90,000 refugees have 
voluntarily  returned  home  over  the  past  four  months. 
I  would  like  to  urge  all  our  neighbours  to  help  to 
facilitate their voluntary repatriation. The Government 
of  the  Republic  of  Burundi  is  in  discussions  with  the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees on launching tripartite negotiations with the 
host countries.
Also  in  line  with  the  relevant  provisions  of 
resolutions 2248 (2015) and 2279 (2016), and in order to 
comply with the 2013 Peace, Security and Cooperation 
Framework for the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and  the  Region,  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of 
Burundi  calls  on  all  its  neighbours  to  refrain  from 
aiding and abetting the violent schemes of some groups, 
especially those that failed in their bid on 13 May 2015 
to  overthrow  Burundi’s  democratic  institutions  and 
attacked us on 10 July 2015. The report of the Group 
of  Experts  on  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
(S/2016/466), submitted to the Security Council a few 
months ago, is comprehensive and clear on the activities 
of  those  groups,  which  have  attacked  Burundi  more 
than once, and my Government urges the Council to act 
on those findings.
Regarding  United  Nations  reform,  Africa,  along 
with other regions of the world, has called for reform 
of our Organization’s bodies, particularly the Security 
Council,  again  and  again.  Decision  62/557  paved 
the  way  for  instituting  negotiations  on  reform.  As 
countless delegations have pointed out, it is absolutely 
unacceptable  that,  more  than  seven  decades  after  its 
creation, our Organization is still functioning with the 
same post-war mindset, with a few Members claiming 
more  rights  than  the  rest.  The  Government  of  the 
Republic of Burundi fully supports the African Union 
position outlined in the Ezulwini Consensus.
Our Organization needs a new impetus. However, 
there  are  some  steps  that  can  be  taken  even  before 
that  goal  is  reached.  For  instance,  the  three  African 
non-permanent  members  of  the  Council  should  be 
given  more  responsibilities  and  allowed  to  work 
independently. If more than 70 per cent of the situations 
under consideration by the Council originate in Africa, 
it is not too much to ask that the so-called penholders 
be  African  countries,  especially 
the 
sometimes biased views of Africa entertained by some 
Council members.
light  of 
in 
The shock and horror of the images we have seen 
of  migrants  seeking  refuge  in  Europe  are  a  constant 
reminder  to  all  of  us  that  while  the  world  we  live  in 
14/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
may  be  one  of  shared  opportunities  it  is  also  one  of 
shared  challenges.  While  we  call  on  countries  of 
destination to demonstrate more humanity in catering to 
migrants, we believe it is important to analyse the deep-
rooted causes of such mass exoduses of the young men, 
women and children who find it necessary to risk their 
lives on the open sea in search of better opportunities. 
One way of reducing the problem is by supporting well-
intentioned  development  programmes  undertaken  by 
the countries of the South. As their social and economic 
situation  improves,  more  people  will  find  reasons  to 
stay  in  their  own  countries,  but  that  can  happen  only 
if we all understand that we must respect the political, 
social, economic and cultural fabric of every country. 
Unfortunately, that is not always the case today.
This year’s general debate is taking place at a time 
when  terrorism  is  affecting  the  entire  world  and  has 
hit  every  region.  Some  progress  has  been  made,  but 
we  have  to  recognize  the  fact  that  efforts  to  develop 
a common strategy have not yet yielded the hoped-for 
results. Terrorist attacks have shaken countries in every 
corner of the world and touched all of us. My country 
is  concerned  about  the  surge  in  such  attacks,  and  my 
Government, as always, condemns terrorism in all its 
manifestations  and  sympathizes  with  its  victims.  We 
believe that we must wage the fight against terrorism 
with greater determination.
Matching its words with deeds, Burundi has been 
sending troops to fight terrorism and violent extremism 
in many parts of the world since 2007. More than 5,000 
Burundian troops are in Somalia fighting Al-Shabaab 
as  part  of  the  African  Union  Mission  in  Somalia 
(AMISOM). Our continued presence there is proof of 
Burundi’s  firm  commitment  to  combating  terrorism, 
in  full  solidarity  with  our  brothers  and  sisters  on  the 
continent and beyond. We believe that the fight against 
terrorism anywhere is a contribution to global peace.
Despite  the  fact  that  two  formed  police  units 
from  Burundi  were  not  rotated  into  the  Central 
African  Republic  for  politically  motivated  reasons, 
we  remain  committed  to  peace  and  security,  and  our 
men and women in uniform are still prepared to serve 
in  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic 
with the same zeal that has been shown by our police 
units  in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Haiti  and  Darfur.  Our  only 
interest is in helping our brothers and sisters to recover 
their  dignity  and  freedom.  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to thank the partners that have continued 
to  support  such  missions.  As  a  troop-contributing 
country,  Burundi  urges  the  United  Nations  to  fill  the 
gap  left  by  the  cuts  in  the  European  Union’s  budget 
for AMISOM.
Burundi  has  also  participated  in  other  initiatives, 
such  as  the  European  Union  action  plan  on  chemical, 
biological, radiological and nuclear security, aimed at 
preventing  terrorist  groups  and  non-State  actors  from 
acquiring  substances  that  could  be  used  for  terrorist 
purposes. However, none of those initiatives can help us 
defeat terrorism if structural causes such as inequality 
and poverty are not dealt with. People need to be able to 
put bread on the table.
My  delegation  would  like  to  note  here  how 
essential  it  is  that  all  Member  States  incorporate  the 
17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  into  the  design  of 
their  policies,  programmes  and  budgets.  For  its  part, 
Burundi is committed to putting its citizens at the centre 
of its development policies. With its partners’ valuable 
support,  the  Government  of  Burundi  is  working  to 
respond to the needs of its most vulnerable citizens as 
inclusively as possible. We are working together with 
every country on the planet to promote and implement 
a sustainable, durable regime on climate, as well as a 
legally binding instrument, and we must make sure we 
consolidate  the  gains  achieved  on  that  epoch-making 
day  of  21  December  2015.  In  a  few  months,  Burundi 
will join those countries that have already ratified the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
On 13 October 1961 in Bujumbura, our then Prime 
Minister,  His  Royal  Highness  Louis  Rwagasore,  the 
hero of our independence, was assassinated by elements 
close  to  the  colonial  administration  as  he  presided 
over his first and last cabinet meeting. On 15 January 
1965,  Pierre  Ngendandumwe,  our  Prime  Minister, 
was  gunned  down  in  Bujumbura  by  a  local  embassy 
staffer.  On  21  October  1993,  Melchior  Ndadaye,  the 
first democratically elected President of Burundi, was 
assassinated by army troops from one ethnic group. On 
13 May 2015, a bid to overthrow Burundi’s legitimate 
institutions  failed.  What  all  those  sad  events  have 
in  common,  however,  is  the  unhealthy  and  obvious 
involvement  of  foreign  elements.  And  we  should  not 
forget that President Ntaryamira died in a foreign land 
when the plane carrying him and the then-President of 
Rwanda was shot down on 6 April 1994. 
In  that  regard,  it  is  important  to  remember  that 
African societies are highly complex. What Burundi is 
16-29817
15/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
asking  for  is  to  be  seen  fairly,  on  its  own  terms,  not 
through the lenses of other situations in other countries. 
We do not welcome any kind of foreign interference in 
our affairs, because Burundi has been flying the flag of 
a sovereign State since 1 July 1962, however difficult 
that may be for some to understand.
Three  communities  live  in  our  beautiful  land, 
bordered on the west by majestic Lake Tanganyika, the 
world’s second deepest, and by two other countries to 
the  north  and  east.  The  Hutu,  Tutsi  and  Twa  peoples 
live  in  harmony  in  Burundi  and  have  an  equal  say 
in  the  affairs  of  Government,  as  provided  for  in  the 
Constitution  of  the  Republic  of  Burundi.  No  group  is 
above or below another. 
It  is  crucial  to  take  into  account  the  suffering 
and  pain  that  our  people  endured  as  a  result  of  bad 
leadership in the past. The wounds left by the massacres 
of the past remind us to treat all our citizens the same 
way,  with  no  distinctions  between  classes  or  groups. 
Victims know no majority or minority — their pain is 
the same. We therefore refuse to manipulate or falsify 
history.  Our  citizens  continue  to  mourn  their  loved 
ones,  lost  to  ignorance  and  the  barbaric  practices  of 
the military regimes that overthrew the monarchy and 
proclaimed  a  republic.  For  more  than  40  years,  the 
various  Burundi  Administrations  in  Burundi  busied 
themselves segregating and killing citizens on the basis 
of their ethnicity.
The  Arusha  Peace  and  Reconciliation  Agreement 
of  2000  and  our  2005  Constitution  defined  the  place 
of all citizens in the country’s administration, in what 
was seen to be an equitable way of ensuring peace and 
stability. Those tenets are still in place today, and the 
Arusha Agreement is fully respected in our institutions. 
Similarly,  the  Truth  and  Reconciliation  Commission 
envisaged  in  the  Arusha  Agreement  has  now  been 
established. We therefore call on the United Nations to 
support  the  Commission’s  work.  The  Barundi  people 
now have a forum that can address the sad events in their 
history. They need to know why their nation changed 
from being one in which different ethnic communities 
lived  in  harmony  to  one  in  which  citizens  lost  their 
lives because of their ethnic origins. The process will 
enable  us  to  tap  into  the  knowledge  resources  of  the 
United Nations, which entrusted the administration of 
Burundi to a third country.
Lastly,  our  people  —  the  Hutu,  the  Tutsi  and  the 
Twa — want only to live in peace and harmony. They 
unanimously reject genocidal rhetoric. They form one 
single  society,  one  nation.  They  share  a  faith  in  their 
common  future,  which  they  want  to  be  peaceful  and 
prosperous,  one  of  equal  opportunity.  As  President 
Pierre  Nkurunziza  has  said  time  and  again,  there 
will be no genocide in the Republic of Burundi. That 
is  our  faith  and  the  faith  of  all  our  people.  And  we, 
the  people  of  Burundi,  will  fight  that  evil  with  every 
possible means.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Abdusalam  Hadliyeh  Omer,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  and  Investment  Promotion  of  the  Federal 
Republic of Somalia.
Mr. Omer (Somalia): On behalf of my Government 
and my people, it is an honour and a privilege for me 
to  address  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first 
session. I bring warm greetings and good wishes from 
our  President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hassan  Sheikh 
Mohamud, and our Prime Minister, Omar Abdirashid 
Ali Sharmarke, our entire Government and the people 
of the Federal Republic of Somalia.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  His 
Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson, President of the General 
Assembly at its seventy-first session, for his excellent 
leadership. I wish him well in all his duties.
The  United  Nations 
is 
I  also  pay  a  special  tribute  to  His  Excellency 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  who  has 
truly 
championed  development  across  the  world  in  all  its 
forms.  In  his  two  terms  as  Secretary-General  we 
have  seen  a  smooth  transition  from  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  to  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  and 
the  encouragement  of  greater,  more 
innovative  cross-sectoral  partnerships  for  achieving 
progress for all. Whoever succeeds him as Secretary-
General certainly has big shoes to fill.
indeed 
the  foremost 
platform for nations of the world to come together as a 
community of nations to discuss and tackle the greatest 
challenges of our time. Those challenges are clear and 
require robust and coordinated international action to 
overcome.  No  one  nation,  no  matter  how  powerful  or 
resourceful,  can  alone  address  the  grave  challenges 
posed  by  climate  change,  terrorism,  poverty  and  the 
large  movements  of  refugees  and  migrants,  as  well 
as  conflict.  More  important,  no  one  nation  today  can 
claim  that  many  of  those  great  challenges  are  “not  in 
my backyard; therefore, I do not need to act”. In an age 
of globalization, interconnectivity and interdependence 
16/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
there is a duty incumbent upon us all to work even more 
closely together to protect and to advance the common 
interests of all humankind.
The  Government  of  Somalia  is  truly  committed 
to the Charter of the United Nations and the values of 
justice,  peace  and  progress  for  all.  Furthermore,  our 
Government  is  immersed  in  laying  the  groundwork 
for  the  successful  implementation  of  the  crucial  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, with a focus on 
peace and security, good governance and economic and 
social development through innovative partnerships at 
home. We are determined, in the interest of our mutual 
national  and  regional  development  and  progress,  to 
ensure  that  no  one  is  left  behind.  Leaving  people 
behind, especially the most vulnerable in our societies, 
would lead to incomplete progress and signify division 
and a lack of social solidarity among our peoples and 
within our nations.
Somalia  is  a  country  that  I  dearly  love,  represent 
and serve. I am proud to say that all our partners, allies 
and  friends  across  the  world  have  recognized  both 
the  potential  and  the  strategic  value  of  our  country 
for  international  security,  trade  and  the  promotion  of 
democracy and good governance internationally. More 
important,  during  this  week’s  high-level  meeting  on 
Somalia, held on the margins of the General Assembly 
meetings,  the  Government  of  the  Federal  Republic  of 
Somalia and our key international partners exchanged 
views  on  the  current  progress  and  the  remaining 
challenges  in  our  country.  I  am  glad  to  report  that 
our  partners  have  both  recognized  and  pledged  to 
continue supporting Somalia’s fruitful journey towards 
democratization, stability and sustainable development.
Somalia  is  taking  bold  and  unprecedented  steps 
towards  a  better  future.  That  historic  move  towards 
progress  and  empowerment  is  driven  by  our  resilient 
people,  our  determined  central  Government  and  all 
our  valuable  international  partners.  After  nearly  two 
decades  of  difficulties  and  instability,  Somalia  has 
negotiated  a  permanent  turn  towards  progress  and 
prosperity. We are writing a new chapter in our history, 
one that is characterized by hope, inclusive governance 
and development.
I  am  proud  to  say  that  our  Government,  in 
cooperation with our people and valuable partners, has 
made tangible progress on the key issues of elections, 
the  configuration  of  the  State,  security  and  economic 
development.  Despite  our  fruitful  cooperation  with, 
to,  our 
and  gratitude 
international  partners  and 
friends,  the  Somali  Government  and  the  people  take 
full  responsibility  for  their  own  future  in  every  way. 
Therefore,  the  Somali  Government  and  the  people  —  
the ultimate stakeholders and beneficiaries of progress 
in the country — are stepping up to the many challenges 
so as to ensure that our country and people fulfil their 
potential and that of their beautiful and rich home.
Somalia  is  winning  the  war  against  international 
terrorism  at  home  and  contributing  to  the  creation  of 
a  safer  world  through  cooperation  on  security  with 
international  partners  across  the  world.  With  the 
support of our brave Somali national security services 
and the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), 
we have militarily defeated the evil that is Al-Shabaab. 
Defeating  international  terrorism  is  a  fundamental 
priority  for  Somalia,  as  those  murderous  criminals 
pose  a  genuine  threat  to  us  all  and  our  way  of  life. 
The  threat  of  terrorism  is  indeed  international,  as  no 
country,  regardless  of  its  abilities,  can  insulate  itself 
from  that  threat,  given  the  new  technologies  and  the 
fluidity of borders. Terrorism is truly a pointless evil 
without geography and without respect for the sanctity 
of  human  life.  We  can  and  must  defeat  it  through 
partnerships  across  all  international  sectors. During 
the  past  four  years,  the  Somali  National  Army  and 
AMISOM  have  regained  key  towns  and  cities  across 
Somalia.  Today  Al-Shabaab  controls  less  than  10  per 
cent  of  the  territory  of  the  country.  In  recent  months 
many  of  their  key  leaders  have  been  eliminated. 
Others  have  defected,  and  their  violent  ideology  is 
truly  shunned  by  the  Somali  people.  Somali  national 
forces  and  AMISOM  have  proven  that  Al-Shabaab  is 
vulnerable  and  divided,  and  can  be  defeated  through 
coordinated military action.
As a result of the success of the joint operations of 
the Somali National Army and AMISOM, Al-Shabaab 
has turned to small-team, asymmetric warfare tactics in 
order to conduct terrorist attacks against soft targets in 
Somalia and, increasingly, in neighbouring countries. In 
response, our Government is working with our partners 
and  neighbours  to  enhance  security  cooperation  so 
as  to  enable  us  to  respond  to  the  threat,  together  and 
swiftly. Whereas before 2012 Al-Shabaab was engaged 
in  open  warfare  with  the  Somali  armed  forces  and 
AMISOM,  today  they  are  limited  to  undertaking 
infrequent, desperate and opportunistic suicide attacks 
on mosques, hotels, restaurants and businesses, as well 
as carrying out the assassination of innocent citizens. 
16-29817
17/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
That  is  the  best  evidence  of  their  moral  bankruptcy, 
ideological falsehood and diminished capabilities.
to  develop  an  action  plan  and  strategy  for  preventing 
violent extremism.
The  Federal  Republic  of  Somalia  and  our  people 
are  grateful  to  the  troop-contributing  countries  in 
AMISOM for their support in stabilizing our country. 
We  thank  the  brotherly  States  of  Djibouti,  Ethiopia, 
Kenya, Uganda, Burundi and Nigeria for contributing 
to  the  AMISOM  forces  and  the  police  contingent. 
We  fully  recognize  the  sacrifices  that  their  service 
personnel  have  made,  and  continue  to  make,  in  the 
service of Somalia and its people’s future. I can assure 
the Assembly that their valour and distinguished service 
will never be forgotten. In fact, it is and will always be 
honoured in our national development.
While  we  are  grateful  to  AMISOM  and  our 
international partners for their diverse security-sector 
assistance,  we  fully  understand  that  the  only  way  we 
can truly achieve long-term stability and development, 
both in Somalia and across the region, is to have well-
trained, equipped and funded Somali national security 
forces, which we hope to achieve ahead of the agreed 
deadline  under  which  AMISOM  will  draw  down  in 
2018. From all of that, it should be clear that the Somali 
Government  and  the  people  are  committed  to,  and 
are  leading  the  creation  of,  a  safer  Somalia,  region 
and world.
On  the  matter  of  countering  violent  extremism, 
effectively  countering  the  poisonous  ideologies  of 
hate that radicalize vulnerable young people is crucial 
in  order  to  achieve  permanent  peace  in  Somalia  and 
across  the  world.  On  12  September  His  Excellency 
Hassan  Sheikh  Mohamud,  President  of  Somalia, 
officially launched the national strategy and action plan 
for  preventing  and  countering  violent  extremism  for 
Somalia. Somalia is pleased that that inclusive process, 
which began more than 10 months ago, has successfully 
concluded  with  a  comprehensive  national  strategy 
and  action  plan  for  preventing  and  countering  violent 
extremism.  The  document  is  the  result  of  a  rigorous 
and inclusive process of dialogue and discussion with 
all  the  key  stakeholders  that  lasted  up  to  the  point  of 
its  adoption  by  the  Somali  Government.  The  national 
strategy and action plan for preventing and countering 
violent  extremism  provides  a  holistic  framework 
for  addressing  domestic  and  international  security 
threats,  including  terrorism.  With  the  completion  of 
that vital strategy, Somalia has now fulfilled the call of 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for each Member State 
The  Federal  Government  of  Somalia, 
in 
consultation  with  the  federal  states  —  which  were 
all  formed  democratically  starting  in  2012,  with  one 
currently  undergoing  the  process  —  has  adopted  a 
credible, transparent and inclusive electoral mechanism 
that we hope will pave the way for universal suffrage 
by 2020. The Somali people are excited by that positive 
move  towards  democracy,  and  the  various  electoral 
commissions, as well as the Somali people in general, 
are  working  tirelessly  on  the  implementation  of  the 
electoral mechanism in line with the agreed time line. 
As  I  speak,  many  aspiring  parliamentarians  are 
returning to their constituencies to win over voters so 
that  they  can  represent  them  in  the  next  Parliament. 
Billboards  depicting  presidential  hopefuls  seeking  to 
win  the  hearts  and  minds  of  the  Somali  people  line 
the  roads  and  streets  ahead  of  the  election.  That  is  a 
truly historic leap forward in terms of democratization 
in  Somalia  and  provides  clear  evidence  of  the  spirit 
and values of democracy taking shape in the country. 
The  Federal  Government  of  Somalia  is  determined 
to ensure a smooth, peaceful, inclusive and enhanced 
electoral  process  for  a  peaceful  democratic  transition 
in November. 
We  are  also  championing  a  30  per  cent  quota 
for  women  in  Parliament,  as  their  representation 
and  political  participation  is  central  to  our  national 
progress.  Those  actions  most  certainly  constitute  the 
first  step  towards  the  implementation  of  the  2020 
political  road  map  for  universal  suffrage  in  Somalia 
and  the  achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals by 2030. In Somalia we are not short of ambition 
or self-confidence. We are committed to achieving our 
State-building goals with equity and good governance 
as  a  crucial  baseline.  We  are  also  determined  to 
leave  no  one  behind  in  our  march  forward  towards  a 
better tomorrow.
I am sure that everyone appreciates the difficulties of 
transitioning from conflict to inclusive governance and 
development. The Somali people and the Government 
are endeavouring to accomplish in just four years the 
kind  of  national  transformation  that  took  decades  or 
centuries for many countries. Despite the enormity of 
the tasks ahead, we are committed and determined to 
succeed  in  achieving  progress  and  prosperity  for  our 
people, the region and the world in general.
18/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
Turning  to  economic  development,  the  Federal 
Republic of Somalia fully acknowledges that achieving 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  to  which  we 
committed last year at the General Assembly, is central 
to our overall progress. Realistically achieving at least 
some of the Goals quickly and effectively, with a view to 
achieving the rest over the longer term, will ensure the 
success of our overall national and regional agenda for 
peace, sustainable development and prosperity. To that 
end,  we  have  developed  an  inclusive,  people-centred 
and  implementable  national  development  plan,  which 
will  act  as  a  blueprint  for  achieving  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals within the set time frame.
Throughout 
the  United  Nations,  many  key 
discussions  have  focused  on  funding  development 
priorities  across  the  world,  especially  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  In  Somalia  we  fully  understand 
and  appreciate  that  the  traditional  aid  model  alone 
cannot  ensure  development  and  that  it  must  be 
complemented by national contributions. In that spirit, 
and with the attainment of progress and prosperity for 
our  people  and  region  as  a  key  driver,  we  have  made 
investment promotion a central focus of Somali foreign 
and economic policy.
Somalia  is  truly  a  rich  nation,  with  the  longest 
coast  in  Africa.  Seventy  per  cent  of  its  population  is 
under 30 years of age. Our Government has passed one 
of the most competitive investment laws in the world, 
and we are ready to welcome and directly support all 
investors  in  each  and  every  sector.  In  green  energy, 
agriculture,  infrastructure,  telecommunications  and 
the blue economy, Somalia can become a world leader 
and a profitable home for investors and new enterprises, 
with  easy  access  to  the  African,  Middle  Eastern  and 
Far  Eastern  markets.  When  the  goal  of  investment  is 
realized, most of the issues that we face in connection 
with  illegal  migration,  large  movements  of  refugees 
and poverty will be overcome in Somalia.
Relying  on  partnerships  and  the  great  efforts  of 
all, especially the Somali people themselves, Somalia 
has  turned  the  corner  toward  stability  and  progress. 
Today shops are open, schools are full and our markets 
are busy with traders and customers. More important, 
our  diaspora  is  returning  to  invest  and  build  our  key 
institutions,  and  we  thank  those  Governments  and 
organizations  that  have  encouraged  and  continue  to 
actively  encourage  such  activities.  In  the  past  year 
alone,  Somalia  achieved  many  milestones.  We  most 
recently  hosted  the  historic  Extraordinary  Summit  of 
Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development  Heads 
of  State  and  Government  in  Mogadishu.  We  also 
successfully  undertook  our  first  national  secondary 
school  exams  since  the  civil  war  —  with  the  highest 
score  received  by  a  bright  young  lady.  We  are 
positively  contributing  to  the  stability,  progress  and 
development  of  our  region,  continent  and  the  world 
through partnerships.
Through  diverse  partnerships,  we  are  also 
working  on  getting  Somali  refugees  to  return  home 
from  Kenya  voluntarily  and  with  dignity  so  that  they 
can  actively  participate  in  the  efforts  to  rebuild  their 
nation.  Somalia,  more  than  any  other  nation  today, 
recognizes  the  importance  of  peacebuilding,  which 
will  help  to  avert  the  international  refugee  crisis.  We 
appreciate the valuable contribution that refugees make 
to  their  new  and  old  homes  through  remittances  and 
cultural  education,  which  is  crucial  for  promoting 
tolerance. We are determined to save vulnerable lives 
at sea and reverse the brain drain holding our national 
progress hostage by striving to create at home the very 
opportunities that our people seek abroad.
It is impossible to forget the difficult past, but it is 
absolutely  possible  and  necessary  to  dedicate  oneself 
and the nation to a better future. That is what we are 
going to do in Somalia. In that regard, hope, confidence 
and progress characterize the new Somalia and all its 
people. There is no turning back now; we can only go 
forward together and in partnership with the region and 
the  rest  of  the  world.  As  we  take  the  significant  and 
necessary  steps  to  confront  the  biggest  challenges  of 
our time as a community of nations, such as terrorism, 
poverty and large movements of refugees and migrants, 
we can assure everyone that Somalia and its people will 
play their part in the solutions.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Mohamed Asim, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Maldives.
Mr.  Asim  (Maldives):  I  wish 
to  begin  by 
congratulating the President on his assumption of office. 
The  Maldives  is  proud  to  welcome  a  distinguished 
diplomat from a fellow island State to preside over the 
General Assembly at its seventy-first session.
I also wish to congratulate Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon for all of his hard work over the past 10 years, 
and especially for his efforts on climate-change advocacy 
and sustainable development and his partnership with 
16-29817
19/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
small island developing States (SIDS). He is certainly 
leaving a legacy of enormous historical significance.
and should, contribute to our economy; they can, and 
should, contribute to our society.
Rarely  do  we  get  an  opportunity 
to  come 
together  —  the  whole  world  —  for  a  moment  of 
collective agreement. The adoption of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development was such a moment. It is an 
Agenda of hope, a blueprint for advancing humankind, 
a plan for empowering the impoverished and a promise 
to  future  generations.  The  Agenda  recognizes  at  its 
core  that  all  efforts  to  achieve  development  should 
be  holistic  and  that  poverty  is  multidimensional.  It 
recognizes that differentiated responses are necessary, 
even  if  aspirations  are  universal.  It  recognizes  that 
development  efforts  should  include  everyone  and 
address everyone.
President  Abdullah  Yameen  Abdul  Gayoom’s 
development efforts aim to empower everyone so that all 
of society can share in the development dividends. We 
have  reached  our  current  situation  through  sustained, 
continuous,  and  targeted  investment  in  health  and 
education. 
We  find 
that 
the  best  way 
to  sustain  our 
developmental  gains  is  to  focus  on  our  people.  That 
is  why  we  have  made  it  our  aim  to  deliver  easily 
accessible  health  care  to  every  citizen  —  a  feat  that 
is  extremely  challenging  for  a  population  of  338,000 
people  dispersed  over  188  islands.  It  is  why  we  have 
ensured  free  health  care,  provided  sea  ambulances 
on  all  20  atolls  and  established  a  pharmacy  on  every 
inhabited island. It is why we have not stopped investing 
in  education,  despite  achieving  nearly  100  per  cent 
literacy. Rather, we have continued to invest in teacher 
quality,  while  continuously  improving  and  updating 
our  curriculums  and  our  approach.  It  is  why  we  aim 
to  provide  affordable  social  housing,  especially  to  all 
vulnerable  groups  of  our  society.  In  that  connection, 
we  aim  to  empower  people  with  disabilities  through 
financial and material support, such as the provision of 
housing for those with disabilities. That is also why we 
have chosen to focus on youth — improving their lives, 
their livelihood opportunities and their aspirations.
Investing in our people will put us on the right path. 
No investment has higher returns than investments in 
women  and  girls.  Empowering  women  and  girls  to 
make  their  own  choices  and  to  determine  the  destiny 
of their choosing is not only the moral, responsible and 
correct choice to make; it is the smart decision to make. 
Women  constitute  half  of  our  population.  They  can, 
Women  in  the  Maldives  have  had  the  right  to 
vote  since  our  first  Constitution,  in  1932.  Women  in 
the  Maldives  have  always  been  in  our  offices,  in  our 
politics and in our society. They have always had equal 
pay  and  equal  rights,  which  is  now  enshrined  in  our 
Constitution. Today a woman in the Maldives can also 
go to a court of law and use the newly adopted Gender 
Equality Act to claim those rights. They can challenge 
cases  involving  gender  inequality,  sexual  harassment 
and sexual abuse with specifically defined laws to back 
them up. We still have a long way to go — every country 
does — but we believe that we are on the right track to 
making  institutional  and  structural  changes  that  will 
bring about lasting and sustainable normative change.
A much-celebrated feature of the 2030 Agenda is its 
universality. The Goals and targets apply to all nations; 
they have been adopted by everyone. Yet embedded in 
those common responsibilities is the reality of special 
circumstances.  Maldives  is  a  small  island  developing 
State  —  a  status  that  we  cannot  graduate  from. 
Our  islands  are  uniquely  susceptible  to  economic, 
environmental  and  institutional  shocks  because  we 
are so dependent on the rest of the world. Measures of 
development that are used to rank countries continue to 
ignore that reality. Development status continues to be 
determined on the basis of gross domestic product per 
capita.  That  system  disadvantages  smaller  countries 
with small populations. To escape the “island paradox,” 
we  need  the  international  community  to  re-evaluate 
how  development  is  assessed.  There  needs  to  be  a 
concerted effort to integrate the economic vulnerability 
of  countries  into  such  assessments.  Without  such  a 
re-evaluation, our approach to development will never 
be holistic.
The fact that we have graduated from least-developed-
country  status  does  not  mean  that  we  have  overcome 
our  challenges.  Large-scale  infrastructure  —  ports, 
airports, hospitals, harbours — is still required across 
the  entire  Maldives.  Yet  the  large-scale  financing 
needed  for  those  projects  is  not  readily  available 
because the preferential and concessional arrangements 
for financing were lost after we graduated from least-
developed-country  status.  Those  limitations  make  it 
harder to maintain and sustain the development gains 
that enabled us to graduate in the first place.
20/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
The Maldives is one of the countries that is most 
vulnerable  to  environmental  shocks  and  one  of  the 
most exposed to the impacts of climate change. Climate 
change is an existential threat to our country. It has the 
potential  to  erode  decades  of  development  gains.  For 
decades,  we  have  been  advocating  urgent  action  on 
climate change and asking the world to take notice. As 
a lone voice in a sea of sceptics, we were not necessarily 
heard. But today, together with the 43 members of the 
Alliance  of  Small  Island  States,  we  can  can  have  a 
greater impact. With 13 other SIDS, we, the Maldives, 
were among the first ratifiers of the Paris Agreement 
on  Climate  Change.  We  know  that  our  emissions 
are  almost  negligible.  But  we  want  the  international 
community to know that, small though we may be, we 
are making the choice to take action, and to take action 
now. We want the international community to continue 
to  invest  in  action  to  prevent  climate  change  and  in 
forging  meaningful  partnerships.  Investing  today  is 
saving tomorrow.
While  we  continue  to  be  alarmed  by  the  realities 
of  climate  change,  another  crisis  looms.  That  is  the 
state of our oceans. As a large-ocean State, our major 
economic  activities  depend  on  the  health  and  wealth 
of  the  oceans.  We  are  concerned  about  them.  As  in 
many situations, the issue at hand is one that needs a 
collective response. One such opportunity is the United 
Nations Conference to Support the Implementation of 
Sustainable  Development  Goal  14,  on  the  sustainable 
use  of  the  oceans,  which  is  to  be  held  in  June  2017. 
It  will  provide  an  opportunity  for  the  international 
community to come together with renewed hope to find 
solutions that can get the results we desire.
An overarching and cross-cutting theme across all 
the  agendas  is  investment  —  investing  in  our  people, 
investing  in  our  economies  and  investing  in  our 
environment. Above all, investment in our institutions 
is  of  the  utmost  importance.  In  order  to  implement 
ambitious  agendas,  our  institutions  and  governance 
structures  need 
to  be  sufficient  and  capable  of 
delivering the results we want. The Maldives has been 
arguing  for  some  time  now  that,  unless  small  States 
are  able  to  build  strong  institutions,  they  will  not  be 
able to build resilience in the spheres of economy and 
climate change.
We  began  the  process  of  democratization  only  a 
decade ago. Informed by events and based on lessons 
learned,  our  institutions  are  adapting  and  changing. 
Institutions need space to form on their own. They need 
to  develop  organically  and  to  evolve  with  the  needs 
and  priorities  of  our  society.  While  a  healthy  amount 
of  scrutiny  is  necessary  and  welcome,  institutions 
cannot  build  resilience  under  a  constant  microscope. 
However,  the  Maldives  will  remain  engaged  with  the 
international community.
Today we have accepted that economic advancement 
goes  hand  in  hand  with  social  development  and 
environmental  protection.  I  hope  that  we  have  all 
accepted the fact that development needs to be holistic 
and  that  problems  and  solutions  have  interlinked 
consequences. The massive shift seen in provisions of 
the 2030 Agenda reflects precisely that reality, that all 
issues are interlinked.
It is in that vein that we have accepted that there 
can  be  no  sustainable  development  without  peace, 
and  no  peace  without  sustainable  development.  And 
nowhere is that more apparent than in Palestine. Cycles 
of  violence  and  hatred  perpetuated  by  the  occupying 
Power, Israel, have led nowhere. A two-State solution 
that  offers  peace,  stability  and  security  is  the  only 
solution.  Guaranteeing  Palestinians  the  right  to  self-
determination and sovereignty over their own land and 
natural resources is the only way out of the conflict.
A  military  solution  is  never  the  answer.  Look  at 
the condition of Syria. Thousands of innocent children, 
men  and  women  have  lost  their  lives  to  the  conflict. 
Hundreds  more  are  fleeing  for  their  lives,  only  to  be 
turned  away  by  the  politics  of  fear.  Fences  and  wires 
do not stop violence; compassion and tolerance do. The 
rising tide of hatred, Islamophobia and xenophobia in 
the name of security will lead only to more violence, as 
more people feel more marginalized and more people 
find  more  reasons  for  hatred.  And  radical  elements 
of  society  find  much  to  feed  on  in  poverty,  misery 
and victimization.
We live in a world marred by extreme acts carried 
out in the name of religion and extremist beliefs, which 
instil fear in others. That is our reality. The Maldives 
condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. 
We reject radicalism. We especially denounce all acts 
of violence carried out in the name of Islam, for they are 
not  only  un-Islamic  but  anti-Islamic.  We  have  passed 
legislation to address foreign terrorist fighters. We have 
established the National Counter-Terrorism Centre. And 
next month, we will also host an international seminar 
on counter-terrorism and counter-radicalization.
16-29817
21/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
is  still 
the 
The  United  Nations 
to  support 
the  best-placed 
Organization 
implementation  of 
the  2030  Agenda.  The  knowledge,  practices  and 
power  of  convening  that  the  United  Nations  draws 
on  are  unmatched.  Yet  there  is  a  recurring  concern 
that  we  hear  —  a  concern  that  we  ourselves  have 
voiced — namely, the need to increase representation 
in the main bodies of the United Nations. Small States 
such  as  the  Maldives  are  often  underrepresented, 
because our delegations are small and our capabilities 
are stretched. Every Member of the Organization must 
have an opportunity to serve and have an equal chance to 
be part of every body, especially the Security Council, 
in order to help make decisions that affect us all. We do 
not believe that might or size should determine destiny. 
Our  ability,  our  motivation,  our  will  to  work  and  our 
ideas are more appropriate criteria.
For the first time since it joined the Organization, 
51 years ago, the Maldives has boldly put forward its 
candidature to the Security Council for the 2019-2020 
term. That is because we believe that the opportunity 
should be available to all and because we believe that 
we can serve. We believe that intent, resolve, fairness 
and 
the  principle  of  representation  must  decide 
such opportunities.
In  an  ever-changing  world,  that  which  defines 
success for countries is the ability to adapt according to 
changing needs. The resilience of countries, continued 
investment  and  continuous  will  to  work  are  critical. 
As a small island State, we face myriad challenges and 
vulnerabilities. But today we ask Members to value us 
because of our abilities, not our vulnerabilities. Evaluate 
our progress relatively, not against inapt benchmarks. 
We may be small, but we surely can be significant.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Lyonpo Damcho Dorji, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Kingdom of Bhutan.
Mr. Dorji (Bhutan): At the outset, I have the honour 
to convey the warm greetings of His Majesty the King 
and the people of Bhutan. I congratulate the President on 
his election as President of the General Assembly at its 
seventy-first session and assure him of my delegation’s 
full support in the discharge of his responsibilities. His 
distinguished  predecessor,  Mr.  Morgens  Lykketoft, 
deserves  our  special  appreciation  for  the  excellent 
manner  with  which  he  steered  the  work  of  the 
seventieth session.
We  meet  at  a  time  defined  by  breakthrough 
agreements.  The  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable 
Development,  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  on 
financing  for  development  and  the  Paris  Agreement 
on  Climate  Change  stand  as  testimonies  to  our 
collective  resolve  to  advance  peace,  security,  human 
rights and sustainable development. Those agreements 
underscore  our  commitment  to  multilateralism  and 
serve as a reaffirmation of our faith in the purposes and 
principles of the United Nations. Together they present 
a  historic  opportunity  to  secure  the  collective  hopes 
and aspirations of humankind.
We  have  undoubtedly  made  a  good  start  on  that 
monumental  journey.  However,  let  us  be  clear  that 
many  serious  global  challenges  persist.  We  continue 
to  witness  wanton  acts  of  terrorism  and  protracted 
conflicts  that  undermine  the  security,  well-being  and 
human  rights  of  millions  of  people.  Terrorism  is  the 
most flagrant violation of human rights, and we strongly 
condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. 
It afflicts many nations and peoples, and the imperative 
to  redouble  international  cooperation  to  combat  that 
scourge is vital and urgent. Over the past five years, at 
least 15 major conflicts have erupted around the world.
Mr. El Haycen (Mauritania), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
Today we are witnesses to the largest displacement 
of  people  fleeing  violence  and  conflict  since  the 
founding of the United Nations. The value of the arms 
trade  and  global  military  expenditures  has  exceeded 
Cold-War  levels.  The  current  stockpile  of  nuclear 
weapons  is  enough  to  destroy  our  planet  hundreds  of 
times over. That unimaginable destructive power still 
looms as a grave threat. All of those facts serve as an 
acute  reminder  that  our  quest  for  peace  and  security 
remains unfulfilled.
On  the  development  front,  significant  gaps  and 
challenges  to  successfully  achieving  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) confront us. For instance, 
the  Secretary  General’s  June  2016  report  to  the 
Economic and Social Council on the SDGs highlights 
(E/2016/75)  that  one  in  eight  people  suffers  from  the 
abject  despair  of  extreme  poverty.  About  800  million 
people  suffer  from  hunger.  More  than  2  billion  are 
affected by water scarcity. And 1.1 billion people live 
without  electricity.  Thousands  of  children  die  every 
day, mainly from preventable causes. Children make up 
nearly half of the almost 900 million people living on 
22/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
less than $1.90 per day. About 124 million children do 
not  attend  school,  and  two  out  of  five  leave  primary 
school without basic skills.
Much remains to be done to accelerate the rate of 
progress in achieving gender parity and promoting the 
rights  of  women.  We  need  to  make  concerted  efforts 
to  close  the  economic  gap  between  men  and  women. 
Likewise,  glaring 
inequalities  within  and  among 
nations  persist,  despite  substantial  gains  in  global 
economic  output.  And  addressing  the  employment 
challenge remains a daunting and complex task.
The risk of catastrophic climate change is no longer 
an abstract and long-term threat. Climate change is real, 
and  countries  in  special  situations,  such  as  the  least 
developed  countries  (LDCs),  landlocked  developing 
countries (LLDCs) and small island developing States 
(SIDS), are the most vulnerable. We have all experienced 
the  impact  of  climate  change,  which  is  devastating 
and  destabilizing,  as  can  be  seen  from  the  frequency 
and  intensity  of  recent  weather  events.  In  July  we  in 
Bhutan  suffered  extensive  destruction  and  damage  to 
property  and  infrastructure  caused  by  unprecedented 
flash floods. Even as we deal with those long-standing 
challenges,  the  digital  revolution,  while  opening  new 
frontiers of opportunity by spurring global integration 
and catalysing a fourth industrial revolution, is ushering 
in  new  and  interlocking  challenges  that  have  social, 
political,  economic  and  security  implications  that  we 
have yet to fully comprehend.
We  have  to  move  past  the  euphoria  of  landmark 
agreements.  Now  more  than  ever  before,  we  must 
find  new  political  resolve  for  urgent,  focused  and 
comprehensive action that involves all stakeholders at 
the national, regional and international levels — action 
that  translates  agreements  into  real  and  meaningful 
dividends for all peoples and all countries.
The  scale,  scope  and  complexity  involved  in  the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  should  not  be 
underestimated,  especially  given  the  time  frame  of 
fewer  than  15  years.  The  focus  now  and  in  the  years 
ahead must be on implementation. The principles and 
objectives  of  the  2030  Agenda  are  consistent  with 
Bhutan’s  national  development  framework  based  our 
concept  of  Gross  National  Happiness.  Guided  by  that 
timeless  vision  propounded  by  our  kings,  we  have 
always  ensured  that  peace,  happiness  and  the  well-
being  of  our  people  remained  at  the  core  of  all  our 
endeavours.  Formerly  a  closed  subsistence  economy 
with no electricity or roads, Bhutan today is a rapidly 
emerging  economy  that  aspires  to  achieve  holistic 
development. With the accelerated development of our 
hydropower  sector,  the  next  15  years  are  expected  to 
usher in even greater transformation.
Bhutan  has  successfully  aligned  the  SDGs  with 
our  national  priorities  and  integrated  them  into  our 
development-planning framework. The next decade will 
be critical as we seek to consolidate development gains 
and  work  towards  realizing  our  national  development 
goals  of  eradicating  poverty,  promoting  inclusive  and 
sustained  economic  growth,  achieving  self-reliance 
and  eventually  graduating  from  the  least-developed-
country category. We will continue to work in earnest 
to ensure the effective implementation of the SDGs, so 
that we succeed in achieving the transformation that we 
all seek. That is particularly important, as Bhutan faces 
immense  challenges  as  an  LDC  and  as  a  landlocked 
country. In that endeavour, the role of our development 
partners is critical.
The  effectiveness  of  national  strategies  and 
investment  plans,  in  both  the  formulation  and  the 
implementation, depends on predictable commitments 
of  financial,  technical  and  policy  support  measures 
from  development  partners.  Our  partners’  emphasis 
needs to shift from the expression of approximate broad 
support  measures  for  the  benefit  of  LDCs  as  a  group 
to  what  is  necessary  at  the  country  level.  Financing 
for development, particularly commitments to official 
development  assistance,  must  be  disaggregated  at  the 
country level, so that they can be expressed in national 
budgets aimed at financing short-, medium- and long-
term  investment  plans.  Without  such  predictability,  it 
is impossible for LDCs to formulate the integrated and 
effective  strategies  and  plans  needed  to  achieve  the 
SDGs.  In  that  regard,  allow  me  to  share  some  of  our 
experiences, so as to illustrate how the predictability of 
financing allows for more ambitious plans.
rich  biodiversity 
In  1992,  we  established  the  Bhutan  Trust  Fund 
for  Environmental  Conservation  —  the  world’s  first 
environmental  trust  fund  —  to  protect  our  pristine 
environment  and 
the 
implementation of conservation programmes. Similarly, 
in 1998, we established the Health Trust Fund, which 
today  sustainably  finances  the  essential  drug  needs 
that  are  fundamental  to  our  free  health-care  system. 
Recently, in collaboration with the World Wildlife Fund, 
we launched the Bhutan for Life Project, an innovative 
financing  initiative  based  on  a  project-financing-
through 
16-29817
23/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
for-permanence  model.  Funds  generated  through  the 
project will be used to maintain and manage Bhutan’s 
protected  areas,  parks  and  biological  corridors  in 
perpetuity, as well as to promote sustainable livelihoods 
for the communities in the area. We hope to expand that 
innovative financing model with development partners 
to  cover  other  critical  sectors  such  as  sustainable 
energy, education and infrastructure development.
the  quality  of  partnerships 
The  success  of  the  2030  Agenda  will  ultimately 
hinge  on 
involving 
Governments,  the  private  sector  and  civil  society  at 
the  national,  regional  and  global  levels.  Partnerships 
in  innovative  financing  for  development  will  be  vital 
for  groups  of  countries  in  special  situations,  namely, 
the  LDCs,  LLDCs  and  SIDS.  We  look  forward  to  the 
continued  support  of  our  development  partners  and 
well-wishers.
Bhutan’s  commitment  and  contributions  to  the 
conservation  and  preservation  of  the  environment, 
the  protection  of  biodiversity  and  the  mitigation  of 
climate change have been widely acknowledged. That 
commitment dates back more than two decades, when 
we took a deliberate decision to shift our forest policy 
away from revenue generation towards environmental 
protection by banning the export of raw timber, despite 
our limited resources. Furthermore, in 2008, we pledged 
to  safeguard  our  forests  through  a  constitutional 
mandate  that  requires  maintaining  a  minimum  of 
60 per cent of our land under forest cover in perpetuity. 
Today, 75 per cent of our land is covered in forest, and 
38 per cent of our total land area has been designated 
as national protected areas. In 2009, we committed to 
remaining carbon neutral, but in reality we are carbon 
negative,  and  we  look  forward  to  ratifying  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  upon  completion  of 
internal processes.
Effective  multilateralism  requires  an  effective 
United  Nations  —  one  that  is  fit  for  the  purpose. 
Since  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations,  the  world 
has  undergone  profound  changes.  Its  membership  has 
increased  fourfold,  and  the  challenges  we  face  have 
become  more  complex.  Institutions  cannot  be  static. 
They must evolve and adapt, so as to remain relevant 
and  effective.  The  United  Nations  and  its  principal 
organs must be reformed in keeping with contemporary 
realities  —  in  particular  the  Security  Council,  so  as 
to  make  the  Council  more  representative,  transparent 
and  accountable  and  to  enhance  its  legitimacy  and 
credibility.  Similarly,  the  2030  Agenda  requires  a 
United  Nations  development  system  that  is  able  to 
deliver  integrated  and  coordinated  policy  support. 
In  that  regard,  it  is  essential  to  achieve  an  ambitious 
outcome to the new quadrennial comprehensive policy 
review  of  operational  activities  for  development  of 
the  United  Nations  system  —  one  that  matches  the 
ambitions of the 2030 Agenda.
Bhutan  has  been  blessed  with  peace,  progress 
and  stability  under  the  enlightened  leadership  of  our 
monarchs. We embraced democracy in a unique manner, 
as it was imposed on us by our kings and not born out 
of  popular  unrest  or  strife.  I  am  pleased  to  state  that 
our transition to democracy is on a firm footing, with 
democratic institutions in place, supported by a vibrant 
and independent media.
for 
lasting  and  durable  solutions 
Peace  and  security  is  a  shared  concern  and 
responsibility.  Bhutan  is  committed  to  supporting 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  endeavours  to  maintain 
peace,  protect  civilians  and  create  the  conditions 
necessary 
to 
conflicts  around  the  world.  Despite  our  limitations 
and  constraints,  we  joined  the  fraternity  of  troop- 
and  police-contributing  countries  in  2014.  That  is  a 
reflection of our commitment to share the burden along 
with other Member States. Today, we have a presence in 
10 peacekeeping missions, and we hope to broaden and 
deepen  our  peacekeeping  engagement  in  the  coming 
years.
As Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon completes his 
tenure  in  December,  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  express  my  profound  gratitude  and  appreciation  to 
him for his leadership, service and contributions to the 
important work of the United Nations. We wish him and 
his family every success in all their future endeavours.
Second  chances  are  rare  in  life.  The  agreements 
that we adopted in 2015 have given us an extraordinary 
opportunity to bring about greater peace, progress and 
prosperity for all. History will judge us by our ability to 
translate those compacts into meaningful and concrete 
results. Let us not squander this historic opportunity.
Addressing  our  peace,  security  and  sustainable 
development  challenges 
requires  global  action, 
underpinned  by  the  solidarity  of  all  Member  States 
and  bound  together  by  a  strong  esprit  de  corps  at  the 
United Nations. In that context, I would like to end with 
a quote by His Majesty the King of Bhutan:
24/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
“Individual or even national success is a ship that 
cannot  carry  everyone  together  to  the  same  place 
at  the  same  time.  Rich  nations  must  stop  and  be 
mindful of the poorer ones left behind. Successful 
people  must  stop  and  remember  those  who  did 
not  make  it.  No  nation  today  can  stand  alone  in 
achievement. Time is slowly telling us that there can 
be no lasting individual success without success as 
a community, and there cannot be lasting national 
progress and success if it does not fit into a future 
of global peace, harmony and equality. The world 
must progress together or fail together.”
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Elvin Nimrod, Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs,  Legal  Affairs,  Carriacou  and  Petite 
Martinique Affairs and Local Government of Grenada
Mr. Nimrod (Grenada): I am pleased to extend the 
usual  warm  greetings  from  the  Government  and  the 
people of Grenada, on whose behalf I am privileged to 
address the General Assembly and its members. I am 
also pleased to join colleagues who spoke before me in 
thanking the President of the General Assembly at its 
seventieth session, Mr. Mogens Lykketoft of Denmark, 
for  his  energetic  and  focused  leadership.  I  commend 
Mr.  Lykketoft  for  so  diligently  charting  the  course 
towards  transforming  our  world  through  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
I  must  also  congratulate  and  thank  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for his extraordinary leadership 
of the United Nations, and express our deep gratitude, 
especially  for  the  keen  interest  he  has  shown  in 
addressing  the  developmental  challenges  facing  small 
island  developing  States.  I  also  wish  to  assure  the 
incoming  President,  Ambassador  Peter  Thomson  of 
Fiji,  of  my  delegation’s  full  cooperation  and  support 
as  he  encourages  cooperation  under  this  session’s 
theme: that is,“The Sustainable Development Goals: a 
universal push to transform our world”.
Allow  me  to  use  this  rostrum  to  recognize  the 
contribution  of  a  gigantic  Grenadian  personality  who 
passed away this week — Sir Lamuel Stanislaus, who 
served Grenada, the region and the Organization with 
distinction and honour for over a decade as Grenada’s 
Permanent  Representative  to  the  United  Nations  and 
one  year  as  Vice-President  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Sir  Lamuel  was  the  embodiment  of  diplomacy  and 
statesmanship. His contributions transcend nationality, 
geography  and  subject  matter.  His  was  an  eloquent 
and  convincing  voice  in  this  Hall,  addressing  issues 
on behalf of his country and his region. May his soul 
rest in peace. I believe it is ironic that that very noble 
gentleman  was  buried  today,  the  same  day  in  which 
Grenada addresses the Assembly.
Grenada  unwaveringly  recommits  to  the  United 
Nations  and  its  principles,  as  outlined  in  the  Charter. 
Our  commitment  to  the  norms  of  peace,  equality, 
justice,  human  rights  and  multilateralism  is  clear.  At 
home,  Grenada  continues  to  embrace  opportunities 
to  consolidate  democratic  values  and  practices  in 
civic life. I am proud to inform the Assembly that on 
27  October,  Grenadians’  voices  will  be  heard  on  the 
matter of broad constitutional reform.
I  hail  from  the  tiny  island  of  Carriacou,  which, 
together with Petite Martinique, forms my constituency 
and part of mainland Grenada, and makes up our tri-
island State. One of the possible results of the upcoming 
referendum could be a change in the name of the State 
so as to better represent the collective identity of our 
nation.
The  reforms  also  include  amendments  to  the  Bill 
of  Fundamental  Rights  and  Freedoms,  which  would 
guarantee access to public education to every Grenadian 
child up to 16 years of age, and would further ensure that 
children with disabilities are afforded public education 
tailored to their specific needs up to age 18.
Grenada is committed to Goal 5 of the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs),  which  speaks  to  gender 
equality  and  discrimination  against  women  and  girls. 
The  reforms  also  call  on  the  State  to  ensure  that 
men  and  women  enjoy  equal  rights  and  status  in  all 
spheres  of  life,  especially  in  economic,  educational, 
political,  civic  and  social  activities;  that  women  are 
not discriminated against by reason of marital status, 
pregnancy or any other gender-based attribute; and that 
Parliament can enact suitable laws to correct disparities 
and inequalities between men and women.
We  live  in  a  world  that  is  plagued  with  many 
challenges:  civil  wars,  famine,  droughts,  floods,  the 
impacts of climate change, humanitarian and economic 
crises,  and  terrorism.  But  we  also  built  the  United 
Nations  for  the  express  purpose  of  addressing  such 
challenges.  The  United  Nations  was  built  to  steer  us 
away from anarchy and perpetual antagonism.
With  the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  we 
have created a new pathway to achieve a more equitable 
16-29817
25/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
and  lasting  brand  of  development.  That  pathway  is 
paved with clean energy, universal access to education, 
affordable  health  care,  food  security,  clean  water  and 
air, and gender and racial equality. History has shown 
that development is tenuous whenver human rights and 
the environment are not prioritized. The 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals are the product of deep reflection 
and  learning,  and  the  realization  that  development 
without human rights and environmental considerations 
is unreliable. 
Grenada 
is 
in 
resolute 
its  commitment 
Despite the remarkable progress made on each of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  the  fact  that  at 
least $2.5 trillion will be needed each year for the SDGs 
signals the size of the gap that remains to be addressed.
to 
Sustainable Development Goal 14, on the conservation 
and  promotion  of  the  sustainable  use  of  the  oceans, 
seas and marine resources. Earlier this year, Grenada 
hosted  Blue  Week  2016.  That  conference  was  held  in 
collaboration  and  partnership  with  the  Governments 
of the Netherlands and Indonesia and with the United 
Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the 
World Bank, the Global Forum on Oceans, Coasts and 
Islands,  the  Clinton  Climate  Initiative,  the  Caribbean 
Challenge  Initiative  and  The  Nature  Conservancy.  At 
that  event,  we  employed  the  innovative  and  popular 
“shark-tank”  approach,  which  allowed 
local  and 
international ocean entrepreneurs to pitch project ideas 
for funding. The rationale was that we cannot continue 
to merely talk about problems at ocean conferences; we 
need  to  facilitate  solutions  and  commitments  for  the 
sustainable development and use of our oceans. 
The  ocean  economy  is  a  very  important  starting 
point  for  thinking  about  conservation.  The  natural 
capital of the ocean is like the principal deposited in an 
interest-bearing  bank  account.  Unfortunately,  instead 
of living off the interest, we have been drawing down 
from the principal.
The  work  done  by  World  Wide  Fund  for  Nature 
International  and  the  Boston  Consulting  Group  on 
the  Ocean  Economy  has  described  the  estimated 
$24 trillion asset value of the oceans, which generates 
some $2.5 trillion per year. The need to preserve that 
natural  capital  is  self  evident.  But  when  we  consider 
data  provided  by  the  World  Bank  and  FAO,  we  see 
that  the  world  is  losing  $83  billion  per  year  from 
unsustainable  fisheries  practices.  Nine  Caribbean 
nations  have  committed  to  conserving  and  managing 
20 per cent of their marine and coastal environments by 
2020. I am pleased to note that Grenada has committed 
to conserving 25 per cent of its coastal area and marine 
resources by 2020. Both of those commitments are well 
above target 5 of Goal 14 of the SDGs, which calls for 
10 per cent conservation by 2020.
Small island nations in the Caribbean and the Pacific 
must be lead advocates for oceans and climate change. 
Most of us have more space in the sea than we do on 
land. In Grenada, for instance, our maritime territory 
is 75 times our land mass. The ratios are even higher 
for other archipelagoes. That is why Grenada is pleased 
to play a leading role, not only in the Blue Network, but 
also  in  the  Blue  Guardians,  facilitated  by  the  Clinton 
Foundation and the Global Island Partnership initiatives 
for islands. We invite other countries to partner with us 
and participate in both.
Grenada is also helping the Blue Network create an 
online database and platform for ocean-related projects 
seeking  funding.  That  initiative,  called  BluNet,  will 
be  showcased  at  Oceans  Day  during  the  twenty-
second Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held 
in November this year in Marrakesh, Morocco.
Financing  difficulties  and  our  small  size  severely 
affect our ability to invest in renewable energy projects. 
Today Grenada calls on Member States, especially the 
ones that possess the technology and technical capacity, 
to  continue  to  work  with  small  island  developing 
States so as to increase their ability to harness existing 
renewable energy opportunities.
Grenada is almost 100 per cent reliant on imported 
fossil fuels for electricity generation. As a result, our 
development is held hostage to global price fluctuations 
and the high cost of electricity generation. We therefore 
call  for  easier  access  to  the  Green  Climate  Fund  to 
support  renewable  energy  projects  in  small  island 
developing States. 
In  that  regard,  Grenada  calls  for  a  commitment 
from  world  leaders  to  deposit  their  instruments  of 
ratification of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change 
by  the  end  of  2016.  We  hope  that  the  twenty-second 
session of the Conference of the Parties, which will be 
held  in about six weeks, will build on the gains of the 
previous session and garner the necessary momentum to 
enable the full implementation of the Paris Agreement.
26/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
Grenada  further  calls  upon 
international 
community  to  work  with  Grenada  and  other  small 
island  developing  States  on  innovative  approaches  to 
international  climate  financing,  which  would  include 
catalysing private investment.
the 
Like  many  small  island  developing  States,  we 
suffer  from  debt  overhang,  which  limits  the  fiscal 
space  needed  to  address  climate  challenge.  While 
the  International  Monetary  Fund  has  consistently 
expressed satisfaction with Grenada’s response aimed 
at  addressing  the  structural  deficiencies  that  are  both 
a symptom and a cause of that overhang, that response 
has, unfortunately, required a huge sacrifice on the part 
of our citizens, who are already suffering from climate 
change, fossil fuel dependence and the financial crisis. 
Those  three  problems  compound  one  another  and 
collectively limit our ability to invest in climate action 
that  can  actually  alleviate  all  three  issues,  which  has 
created a vicious circle.
Working  with  partners,  Grenada  will  optimize 
various leadership platforms to create practical, concrete 
initiatives to turn that vicious circle into a virtuous one, 
where climate action can catalyse a wave of public and 
private investment that can alleviate all three problems. 
Such measures would help small States like Grenada, 
Carriacou and Petite Martinique take action to combat 
climate change and its impacts in areas such as potable 
water supply, renewable energy and energy efficiency, 
climate-smart agriculture, climate-resilient homes and 
buildings  and  resilient  coasts  and  oceans,  to  name  a 
few.  Those  are  the  developments  that  our  people  are 
demanding, not for tomorrow but for today. When we 
observe  the  climate  changes  in  our  world  today  and 
their effects on humankind, we owe it to ourselves and 
succeeding  generations  to  act  with  immediacy  —  we 
must act now.
As  we  attempt  to  transform  our  world,  we  are 
confronted  with  certain  global  financial  policies  and 
actions  that  pose  significant  threats  to  our  region’s 
sustainable development. Exclusion from correspondent 
banking  services  and  de-risking,  blacklisting  and 
premature  graduation  to  middle-income  status  are 
measures that negatively affect Caribbean economies. 
The  unilateral  and  premature  graduation  of  many 
small 
to  middle-income 
status  without  consideration  of  our  region’s  specific 
vulnerabilities  has  resulted  in  significant  budgetary 
shortfalls,  adversely  affecting  our  economic  and 
social development.
island  developing  States 
Our  region  has 
inherent  structural  economic 
challenges  that  already  restrict  the  pace  of  our 
development. We ask that those impediments to growth 
be  taken  into  account  when  our  cases  come  up  for 
consideration. Indeed, the current formula generalizes 
where generalizations should not be made. Outside of 
per capita gross domestic product (GDP), the intragroup 
differences among countries with middle-income status 
are astounding. Economists today admit that inequality 
had not been treated with any depth until very recently. 
Economists also readily admit that GDP is an imperfect 
measure of development.
The withdrawal of correspondent banking services 
from Caribbean Community member States can be seen 
as an economic assault that will destabilize the financial 
sector of our already vulnerable economies. For small 
economies like ours, the impact could be enormous. To 
give  one  example,  the  World  Bank  has  indicated  that 
more  than  90  per  cent  of  remittances  are  transferred 
through  correspondent  banking  services.  Remittances 
contribute in real and significant terms to the GDP of 
small nation-States. The World Bank goes on to state 
that a sudden stop in remittances in economies that rely 
on  those  flows  could  pose  a  significant  threat  to  the 
socioeconomic stability of the region.
Grenada  applauds 
in 
the  progress  made 
the 
recent  rapprochement  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States.  Grenada  sees  the  peaceful  resolution  of  some 
of  the  issues  in  those  relations  through  dialogue  as 
an  example  to  be  emulated  between  and  among  all 
States  where  violence,  conflicts  or  disputes  prevail. 
Grenada reiterates that it neither promulgates, applies 
nor condones laws or measures that encroach upon or 
undermine the sovereign rights of any State, nor laws 
that restrict or hinder international trade or navigation 
by  any  State.  Consequently,  we  issue  another  clarion 
call  for  the  total  lifting  of  the  economic,  commercial 
and financial embargo imposed on the Government and 
the people of Cuba by the United States of America.
As we forge ahead, it is important to bear in mind 
that  poverty  is  multidimensional  in  nature  and  that 
its  implications  for  our  youth  and  women  go  beyond 
the concepts of income or consumption. The problems 
affecting  our  youth  cannot  be  resolved  only  by 
addressing unemployment and poor working conditions 
we must also provide access to health care and decent 
opportunities.  We  must  ensure  that  we  are  building 
the  necessary  skills  and  knowledge  for  that  group 
to  undertake  economic  activities,  with  an  emphasis 
16-29817
27/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
on  vocational  training,  entrepreneurial  skills  and 
innovation for our young people.
importance  of 
partnerships 
We 
recognize 
and 
the 
international 
regional 
cooperation 
in 
addressing the scourge of non-communicable diseases. 
We  are  adopting  a  holistic  approach  by  utilizing  the 
United Nations system, the World Health Organization 
and the Pan American Health Organization to provide a 
basis for the health agenda and to guide us forward. Of 
particular  importance  is  assistance  in  addressing  our 
capacity  constraints,  facilitating  knowledge-sharing 
and  allowing  the  use  of  innovative  approaches  that 
could be adapted to the needs of our country. President 
Obama, in his address to the Assembly a few days ago 
(see A/71/PV.8), reiterated that the health issues that we 
currently face respected no walls or boundaries. Let us 
therefore  pool  our  collective  energy  and  resources  to 
build capacity to rid humankind of those scourges.
Grenada continues its clarion call for a negotiated 
two-State settlement between Israel and Palestine. No 
matter  what  road  is  taken,  the  end  result  must  enable 
the  full  economic,  social,  political  and  religious  self-
determination  of  the  Palestinian  people.  Grenada 
recognizes  the  struggles  of  the  Palestinian  people 
and  beseeches  the  international  community  to  reject 
mere  political  pragmatism  and  the  status  quo  while 
generations are being lost.
The United Nations membership must make Article 
1,  paragraph  3,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
a  major  priority  in  the  next  few  years.  Our  founding 
fathers called for the Organization to
“achieve  international  co-operation  in  solving 
international  problems  of  an  economic,  social, 
cultural,  or  humanitarian  character,  and 
in 
promoting  and  encouraging  respect  for  human 
rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without 
distinction as to race, sex, language or religion”.
We  must  do  everything  in  our  power  to  provide 
additional  economic  opportunities  for  the  developing 
world.  I  therefore  call  on  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council 
to  create  an 
environment  that  enables  Member  States  to  raise  the 
standard of living of their peoples. In our current global 
context,  we  must  be  conscious  that  inclusion  in  the 
global economy is vital.
to  actively  pursue  efforts 
Finally, I must recall Article 1, paragraph 1, of the 
Charter, which calls for the Organization to
“maintain international peace and security, and to 
that end: to take effective collective measures for 
the prevention and removal of threats to the peace”.
We must be relentless in our pursuit of the aims of 
the Organization. Our challenge is to work towards the 
elimination of terrorism, terrorist activities and armed 
conflicts around the world. Our quest must be to create 
economic  opportunities  for  all  States.  And  our  goal 
should be the peaceful coexistence of all peoples of the 
international community. Indeed, if we can achieve that, 
we will be well on our way to transforming our world.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Isselkou Ould Ahmed Izid Bih, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
Mr.  Bih  (Mauritania)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  is 
a  great  honour  for  me  to  begin  by  congratulating 
Mr.  Peter  Thomson  on  his  election  to  the  presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session. 
I  wish  him  every  success  in  the  noble  task  that  has 
been conferred upon him. I would like to express our 
gratitude to Mr. Mogens Lykketoft for all the hard work 
he  undertook  during  his  presidency  at  the  seventieth 
session of the General Assembly.
I also with to take this opportunity to underscore 
the tireless work undertaken by Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon in the service of peace and security. His skills, 
leadership and ability to keep a close eye on the major 
problems  facing  our  planet  and  to  react  accordingly 
have enabled us to foster a spirit of tolerance, mutual 
understanding and cooperation at the international level.
Mauritania, under President Mohamed Ould Abdel 
Aziz,  is  playing  a  crucial  role  in  the  maintenance  of 
peace  and  security  in  the  Sahel  and  Sahara  regions 
through an approach based on openness, dialogue and 
professionalism. Despite a complex regional backdrop, 
our  efforts  have  been  successful,  in  particular  in  the 
fight against several terrorist groups and organizations, 
following lengthy struggles throughout 2010 and 2011.
that  Mauritania 
represents  an  exception  in  terms  of  its  success  in 
fighting  terrorism  and  extremist  violence.  Having 
managed to quash these effectively since 2011, we have 
also  reinforced  our  security  and  defence  capabilities 
without undermining individual or collective liberties 
and  freedoms.  We  have  continued  to  focus  our  full 
agree  nonetheless 
Experts 
28/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
attention on sustainable development and the needs of 
those who are most vulnerable within society.
According 
to  Reporters  Without  Borders, 
Mauritania  has  been  ranked  first  among  all  Arab 
nations in terms of freedom of expression and freedom 
of the press for three years now. Furthermore, according 
to  a  recent  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP) report, Mauritania is the leading country in the 
subregion in the UNDP Human Development Index. We 
have succeeded in guaranteeing and ensuring freedom 
of expression and the right to protest, demonstrate and 
assemble, meaning that we escaped unscathed from the 
so-called Arab Spring, which afflicted so many of our 
Arab brothers. 
We  have  maintained  open  channels  of  dialogue 
between  the  majority  Government  and  the  opposition 
since  the  elections  in  2011.  That  has  allowed  us 
to  undertake  profound  regulatory  and 
legislative 
reforms,  particularly  regarding  the  empowerment  of 
Mauritanian women and the strengthening of the values 
of citizenship, respect for others and social harmony.
It  is  our  belief  that  security  and  development  are 
intrinsically  linked,  which  is  why  we  have  adopted  a 
very  robust  policy  to  tackle  corruption,  particularly 
with regard to public expenditure and procurement. We 
have  also  set  in  motion  a  series  of  initiatives  to  root 
out corruption in the private sector. That has allowed 
us to raise the necessary funds to increase our security 
and also create youth employment opportunities. That 
rational and judicious policy has led to unprecedented 
progress  and  development  in  many  economic  sectors. 
Infrastructure, roads, ports, hospitals and universities 
have  undergone  major  construction  programmes,  and 
there have been improvements in electricity production 
thanks  to  our  use  of  both  traditional  and  renewable 
energy resources. We have also increased the number 
of  homes  with  direct  access  to  safe  drinking  water, 
particularly for families that have been living in shanty 
towns for more than 50 years.
Mauritania straddles the Arab Mahgreb world and 
the  Saharan  world,  with  a  long  Atlantic  coastline  on 
one border and the Sahara desert on another. Because 
of  our  geographical  location,  we  are  a  key  player  in 
the  security  and  economic  panorama  of  West  Africa. 
It  is  our  desire  to  create  harmony  and  understanding 
between  the  subregions  to  which  we  belong  —  the 
Mahgreb and sub-Saharan Africa  — through a policy 
of  good  neighbourliness.  We  have  adopted  a  neutral 
policy  by  way  of  response  to  the  various  conflicts  in 
our region and with regard to the conflict in Western 
Sahara. It has always been our desire to remain neutral 
and  support  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  to  find 
a  permanent  solution  to  the  Western  Sahara  conflict. 
It  is  a  conflict  that  is  holding  back  integration  and 
development in our region, and there is an urgent need 
to solve it.
Our credibility on a continental level was reflected 
during  our  presidency  of  the  African  Union  in  2014. 
We  also  presided  over  the  African  Union  Peace  and 
Security Council in 2014, when we led and participated 
in many intiatives, especially in seeking to resolve the 
crises  in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Libya,  Mali  and  Burundi,  to 
name but a few places. I am sure the Assembly recalls 
the  courageous  act  of  our  President  himself  when  he 
landed  in  Kidal,  Mali,  in  a  helicopter  in  2014  during 
a period when the town was ravaged by conflict. Such 
a  courageous  act  paved  the  way  to  the  renewal  of 
direct negotiations between the parties to the conflict. 
Furthermore, Mauritania is home to more than 60,000 
Malian  refugees  in  the  Mbera  camp  in  the  east  of 
the country.
Despite  our  scarcity  of  material  and  human 
resources  as  well  as  of  natural  resources,  and 
notwithstanding  the  sensitivity  of  our  geopolitical 
situation,  we  have  contributed  to  many  peacekeeping 
operations  upon  the  request  of  the  United  Nations. 
We  have  deployed  contingents  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  and 
the Central African Republic, and the leaders of those 
missions have all spoken warmly of the professionalism 
and  ethical  behaviour  of  the  Mauritanian  troops. 
Furthermore, it gives me pleasure to say that members 
of the Mauritanian gendarmerie units deployed in the 
Central African Republic were awarded medals today 
by the United Nations.
Mauritania took the lead in organizing the Group 
of Five for the Sahel, with Chad, Niger, Burkina Faso, 
Mali and Mauritania as members, and we are honoured 
to  currently  occupy  the  post  of  Secretary-General  of 
the  Group.  It  is  our  responsibility  to  coordinate  the 
actions  of  these  five  countries  in  matters  of  security 
and  good  governance,  while  focusing  in  particular 
on  the  needs  of  the  most  remote  and  least  populated 
areas.  We  have  developed  various  programmes  and 
initiatives, which have drawn the favourable attention 
of our international partners.
16-29817
29/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
Mauritania  warmly  welcomed  the  opportunity  to 
host  the  latest  Arab  Summit.  Despite  the  short  notice 
and  the  complex  set  of  circumstances  currently  faced 
by the Arab region, we were nonetheless glad to take 
on that responsibility. We are convinced that, whatever 
the differences may be among our countries, each Arab 
Summit provides a valuable opportunity to bring about 
reconciliation between our countries and to brainstorm 
about  our  present  and  our  future  together.  This  very 
well-organized  Summit  produced  some  excellent 
resolutions,  and  we  believe  it  sent  a  strong  message, 
received  in  many  countries,  to  all  who  seek  to  hold 
Arab  brotherhood  responsible  for  the  propagation  of 
unacceptable messages and for wreaking havoc.
We  feel  that  we  bear  responsibility  towards  the 
greater Arab nation. That is why we attach a great deal 
of importance to the rights of the Palestinian people and 
their right to enjoy dignity and sovereignty as a State. 
The Palestines have a right to an independent State with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  It  is  our  belief  that  the 
ongoing violations of human rights in Palestine and in 
other Arab territories occupied by Israel serve only to 
increase  instability  and  further  provoke  the  spread  of 
violent extremism and terrorism throughout the world.
We  would  like  to  address  all  the  parties  to  the 
bloody  conflicts  in  countries  such  as  Yemen,  Libya 
and  Syria,  our  brother  Arab  nations.  We  ask  them  to 
choose  the  path  of  wisdom  with  the  best  interests  of 
their people at heart. We live in a global village where it 
is no longer possible to end conflict by military means, 
however strong an army might be.
The principle of the judicial immunity of States is 
a cornerstone of our international system, yet terrorism 
and violent extremism, together with drug trafficking, 
pose major challenges to international peace, security 
and  order.  Hence,  States  must  develop  synergies  and 
join  forces  to  tackle  those  challenges  and  overcome 
them  together.  Any  national  legislation  that  runs 
counter  to  international  law,  particularly  as  concers 
the  judicial  immunity  of  States,  will  undermine  the 
efforts  by  the  international  community  to  tackle  the 
aforementioned scourges.
Climate change is also a major threat to sustainable 
development, particularly in the regions of the Sahel and 
the Sahara. Mauritania, as is the case for many countries 
in the subregion, must face that problem squarely. Since 
the desert sands of the Sahara cover much of our country’s 
surface,  environmental  issues  must  necessarily  cut 
across all aspects of our national policies, particularly 
those  relating  to  economic  development,  if  we  are  to 
pursue  sustainable  development.  We  have  been  able 
to  limit  the  phenomenon  of  desertification.  Thanks 
to  our  efforts  and  to  the  sponsorship  of  the  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Mauritania,  we  have  engaged  in  a 
tree-planting  programme  throughout  the  country  to 
reverse  the  process  of  desertification.  Our  natural 
resources  have  also  been  included  in  an  effective 
protection mechanism. Mauritania was chosen to host 
the  Panafrican  Agency  of  the  Great  Green  Wall,  an 
ambitious  project  of  the  African  Union  Commission 
that covers approximately 7,000 kilometres from west 
to east, linking the Atlantic coast with the Red Sea, in 
the fight against environmental degradation.
We  have  also  been  carefully  protecting  our  fish 
stocks  for  future  generations.  We  look  favourably 
on  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  and  it  is 
our  cherished  hope  that  all  parties  will  respect  their 
commitments under it.
Mauritania  aspires  to  the  full  implementation  of 
an  inclusive  and  ambitious  work  plan  for  cities  and 
urban  spaces  that  will  flesh  out  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development with its 17 Goals and its 169 
targets.  The  modernization  of  our  cities  and  towns 
will  provide  decent  living  standards  for  inhabitants 
and will ensure that social inclusion is tailored to the 
requirements of each individual and each setting. It is 
important  to  ensure  that  social  development  planning 
meets the need for dignity and decent living standards 
in  urban  spaces.  We  hope  that  Habitat  III,  to  be  held 
in October in Quito, will be a success and fully reflect 
the  aspirations  and  hopes  of  our  people.  Our  desire 
is  to  be  able  to  achieve  a  holistic  and  comprehensive 
solution that strikes a balance between urban and rural 
living conditions.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  on  the  list  of  speakers  in  the 
general debate for this meeting.
I shall now call on those representatives who wish 
to speak in exercise of the right of reply. May I remind 
members  that,  in  accordance  with  decision  34/401, 
statements in exercise of the right of reply are limited 
to 10 minutes for the first statement and to five minutes 
for the second, and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mrs.  Özgür  (Turkey):  Turkey’s  position  on  Syria 
with  regard  to  the  political  and  humanitarian  aspects 
30/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
was shared on the first day of the general debate with 
representatives at the highest political levels of United 
Nations membership (see A/71/PV.8). I have nothing to 
add to that position. I wish to emphasize, however, our 
dismay  at  certain  remarks  in  the  statement  delivered 
by the Syrian regime’s representative (see A/71/PV.20). 
It  included  distorted  facts  and  baseless  accusations, 
including  those  regarding  Turkey.  We  reject  them 
in  their  entirety.  We  are  confident  that,  eventually, 
those  responsible  for  the  destruction  of  Syria  and  the 
suffering of the Syrian people will be held accountable 
for  their  crimes.  Until  then,  Turkey  will  stand  by  the 
democratic aspirations of the Syrian people.
Ms. Rakhmatia (Indonesia): Indonesia would like 
to exercise its right of reply to the statements delivered 
by the representatives of the Solomon Islands (see A/71/
PV.18)  and  Vanuatu  (see  A/71/PV.19),  and  the  similar 
statements by the representatives of Nauru (see A/71/
PV.13),  the  Marshall  Islands  (see  A/71/PV.15),  Tuvalu 
(see A/71/PV.19) and Tonga (see A/71/PV.19), regarding 
matters concerning Papua, a province of Indonesia.
Indonesia is shocked to hear that, at this important 
stage,  where  leaders  are  gathered  in  the  General 
Assembly  to  address  the  early  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals, the transformation of 
our collective action, and other global challenges, such 
as climate change — whose severest impact is felt by 
Pacific countries — the State leaders chose instead to 
violate the Charter of the United Nations by interfering 
in another country’s sovereign affairs and attempting to 
violate its territorial integrity.
We categorically reject the continuing insinuations 
in their statements, which clearly reflect an unfortunate 
lack of understanding of the history, current situation 
and  progressive  developments  in  Indonesia,  including 
in  the  provinces  of  Papua  and  West  Papua.  Couched 
in  unfriendly  rhetoric  and  smacking  of  a  political 
manoeuver,  those  politically  motivated  statements 
were  designed  to  support  separatist  groups  in  the 
State provinces, groups that have persistently engaged 
in  inciting  public  disorder  and  in  conducting  armed 
terrorist attacks on civilians and security personnel.
The  statements  made  by  those  countries  clearly 
violate  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  principle  of  international 
law concerning friendly relations among States, as well 
as  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  States. 
I reiterate that it is a violation of the sovereignty and 
territorial  integrity  of  States.  It  is  highly  regrettable 
and dangerous for States to misuse the United Nations, 
including  the  Assembly.  Those  countries  are  using 
the  Assembly  to  advance  their  domestic  agenda 
and,  in  some  cases,  in  an  attempt  to  divert  attention 
from  political  and  social  problems  at  home.  Those 
countries mentioned are also using false and fabricated 
information  as  the  basis  for  their  statements.  The 
conduct of those countries undermines the Charter of 
the United Nations and is detrimental to the credibility 
of the Assembly.
Indonesia’s commitment to the protection of human 
rights  is  beyond  question.  Indonesia  is  a  founding 
member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  Indonesia  has 
already  served  as  a  member  of  the  Council  for  three 
terms and is currently serving a fourth term. Indonesia 
initiated the Intergovernmental Commission on Human 
Rights of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and 
the Independent Permanent Human Rights Commission 
of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation. Indonesia 
has ratified eight out of nine core international human 
rights  instruments,  which  have  all  been  incorporated 
into  its  national  legal  system  —  compared  with  just 
four by the Solomon Islands and five by Vanuatu.
Indonesia is among the few countries that have an 
ongoing national plan of action on human rights; it is 
currently working with the fourth iteration of the plan, 
which  is  for  the  2015-2019  period.  Indonesia  has  had 
an active and robust National Commission on Human 
Rights since 1993, as well as a vibrant civil society and 
free media. Indonesia is a country with a full-fledged, 
functioning  democracy.  In  such  a  vibrant  national 
democracy, where there is the highest commitment to 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  at  all 
levels,  it  would  be  nearly  impossible  for  any  human 
rights allegations to go unnoticed or unscrutinized.
We reaffirm that there are domestic mechanisms in 
place at the national level in Indonesia, as well as at the 
provincial level in Papua and West Papua. For our part, 
we will continue to maintain appropriate focus on the 
development of the Papua and West Papua provinces in 
the best interests of all.
Let  me  conclude  with  a  saying  from  our  Asia-
Pacific region, namely, that when one points the index 
finger at others, the thumb automatically points to one’s 
own face.
Mr.  Li  Yongsheng  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
With respect to the arbitration unilaterally initiated by 
16-29817
31/34
A/71/PV.21 
24/09/2016
the  Philippines  in  the  matter  of  the  South  China  Sea 
and  the  ruling  thereon,  the  Chinese  Government  and 
the Ministry for Foreign Affairs have made statements 
and issued a position paper expressing the position of 
China very clearly. I would like to reiterate here that the 
ruling is null and void and has no binding force. China 
neither  recognizes  nor  accepts  it.  China’s  territorial 
sovereignty, maritime rights and interests in the South 
China Sea shall under no circumstances be affected by 
that  ruling.  China  opposes  and  will  never  accept  any 
claim or action based on it.
The  Chinese  Government  will  continue  to  abide 
by  international  law  and  basic  norms  governing 
international relations as enshrined in the Charter of the 
United Nations, including the principles of respecting 
State sovereignty, territorial integrity and the peaceful 
settlement of disputes. To maintain peace and stability 
in the South China Sea, it will continue to work with 
the  States  directly  concerned  to  resolve  the  relevant 
disputes  in  the  South  China  Sea  through  negotiations 
and consultations, on the basis of respect for historical 
facts and in accordance with international law.
Mr.  Bailen  (Philippines):  I  wish  to  thank  the 
representative of the People’s Republic of China for his 
delegation’s  interest  and  attention  with  regard  to  the 
statement delivered earlier by the Secretary for Foreign 
Affairs of the Philippines, Mr. Perfecto Yasay. In further 
articulating my country’s position. I will make a brief 
statement and will not exhaust my full 10 minutes.
We know the position and arguments expressed by 
the  representative  of  China.  As  a  fundamental  point, 
may  I  state  that  China’s  position  and  arguments  have 
been exhaustively discussed and addressed with finality 
in the award of the Arbitral Tribunal in the matter of 
the South China Sea Arbitration, rendered on 12 July 
2016.  The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the Sea, to which the Philippines and China are States 
parties, provides that the award shall be final and shall 
be complied with by the parties. The Philippines, at the 
highest  level,  has  announced  its  readiness  to  engage 
China in discussions to move forward on the resolution 
of  the  dispute.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  preliminary  talks 
are now ongoing. At the same time, the Philippines, at 
the highest level, has announced that the award of the 
Arbitral  Tribunal  should  be  the  starting  point  for  the 
negotiation of the resolution.
To  reiterate,  this  award  is  now  a  significant  part 
of  the  corpus  of  jurisprudence  in  international  law, 
in particular the law of the sea. It cannot be ignored, 
now or ever. It has clarified the maritime entitlements 
of both the Philippines and China with respect to the 
South  China  Sea,  together  with  the  respective  rights 
and obligations in accordance with those entitlements.
The  Arbitral  Tribunal  had  jurisdiction  over  the 
dispute. On 29 October 2015, the Arbitral Tribunal issued 
a unanimous award finding that it had jurisdiction, and 
that that jurisdiction applies to China, even if it chose 
not to participate in the proceedings. It also held that 
the decision by the Philippines to commence arbitration 
unilaterally was not an abuse of the dispute settlement 
provisions  of  the  Convention.  On  12  July  2016,  the 
Arbitral Tribunal rendered its award and the merits. I 
will not take up the General Assembly’s precious time in 
summarizing the award, for it should be well known to 
all Member States. Let me only mention the highlights.
First,  the  Tribunal  ruled  that  China’s  claims  to 
historic rights, or other sovereign rights or jurisdiction, 
with respect to the maritime areas of the South China 
Sea encompassed by the relevant part of the “nine-dash 
line” are contrary to the Convention and without lawful 
effect to the extent that they exceed the geographic and 
substantive  limits  of  China’s  maritime  entitlements 
under the Convention. The Convention supersedes any 
historic rights, or other sovereign rights or jurisdiction, 
in excess of the limits imposed therein. The Convention 
defines the scope of maritime entitlements in the South 
China  Sea,  which  may  not  extend  beyond  the  limits 
imposed therein.
Second,  the  Tribunal  ruled  on  the  status,  under 
the  Convention,  of  various  maritime  features  in  the 
South China Sea, ruling specifically that none of them 
is  an  island  within  the  meaning  of  article  121  of  the 
Convention. Not one of them — not Scarborough Shoal, 
which the Chinese call Huangyan Dao, Johnson Reef, 
Cuarteron Reef, Fiery Cross Reef, Gaven Reef (North), 
McKennan  Reef,  Mischief  Reef  nor  Second  Thomas 
Shoal  —  can  sustain  human  habitation  or  economic 
life  on  their  own  and  accordingly  have  no  exclusive 
economic zone or continental shelf.
Third,  the  Tribunal  found  that  Mischief  Reef  and 
Second Thomas Shoal lie within 200 nautical miles of 
the Philippines coast, off Palawan Island, and are located 
in  an  area  that  is  not  overlapped  by  the  entitlements 
generated by any maritime feature claimed by China. 
Mischief Reef and Second Thomas Shoal form part of 
the  exclusive  economic  zone  and  continental  shelf  of 
32/34 
16-29817
24/09/2016 
A/71/PV.21
the  Philippines.  According  to  the  Tribunal,  they  are 
rocks — all of them.
Fourth,  the  Tribunal  ruled  that  China,  through 
the  construction  of 
installations  and  artificial 
islands  at  Mischief  Reef  without  the  authorization 
of  the  Philippines,  violated  articles  60  and  80  of  the 
Convention with respect to the Philippines’ sovereign 
rights  in  its  exclusive  economic  zone  and  continental 
shelf, and that, as a low-tide elevation, Mischief Reef is 
not capable of appropriation.
Fifth,  the  Tribunal  ruled  that  China  interfered 
with  the  Philippines  sovereign  rights  in  its  exclusive 
economic  zone  and  continental  shelf  through  China’s 
operation  of  its  marine  surveillance  vessels  in  2011, 
in  violation  of  article  77  of  the  Convention,  with 
respect  to  the  Philippines’  sovereign  rights  over  the 
non-living resources of the continental shelf in the area 
of  Reed  Bank,  and  through  China’s  promulgation  of 
the moratorium in 2012 on fishing in the South China 
Sea,  without  exception  for  areas  of  the  South  China 
Sea falling within the exclusive economic zone of the 
Philippines  and  without  limiting  the  moratorium  to 
Chinese flagged vessels, in violation of article 56 of the 
Convention, with respect to the Philippines’ sovereign 
rights  over  the  living  resources  of  its  exclusive 
economic zone.
Sixth,  the  Tribunal  ruled  that  China,  through  the 
operation  of  its  marine  surveillance  vessels,  tolerated 
and failed to exercise due diligence to prevent fishing 
by Chinese flagged vessels at Mischief Reef and Second 
Thomas Shoal in 2013, and therefore failed to exhibit 
due  regard  for  the  Philippines’  sovereign  rights  with 
respect to fisheries in its exclusive economic zone, in 
violation of article 58, paragraph 3, of the Convention.
Seventh,  the  Tribunal  ruled  that  China,  through 
the  operation  of  its  official  vessels  at  Scarborough 
Shoal  from  May  2012  onwards,  unlawfully  prevented 
Filipino fishermen from engaging in traditional fishing 
at Scarborough Shoal.
Eighth,  the  Tribunal  ruled  that  China  violated 
its  obligation  to  protect  and  preserve  the  marine 
environment  through  its  toleration  and  protection  of, 
and  failure  to  prevent,  Chinese  fishing  vessels  from 
engaging in harmful activities of harvesting endangered 
species  at  Scarborough  Shoal,  Second  Thomas  Shoal 
and other features in the Spratly Islands, in violation of 
articles 192 and 194, paragraph 5, of the Convention, and 
through its island-building activities at Cuarteron Reef, 
Fiery  Cross  Reef,  Gaven  Reef  (North),  Johnson  Reef, 
Hughes Reef, Subi Reef and Mischief Reef, in violation 
of articles 192, 194, paragraph 1, 194, paragraph 5, 197, 
123 and 206 of the Convention.
The Tribunal found, based on compelling evidence, 
expert  reports  and  a  critical  assessment  of  Chinese 
claims, that China’s artificial-island-building activities 
on  the  seven  reefs  in  the  Spratly  Islands  have  caused 
devastating  and  long-lasting  damage  to  the  marine 
environment.  The  Tribunal  also  found  that  China  did 
not  fulfil  its  duties  under  articles  205  and  206  of  the 
Convention  to  cooperate  or  coordinate  with  the  other 
States bordering the South China Sea and to deliver an 
environmental impact assessment of the activities to a 
competent international body.
Ninth, the Tribunal ruled that China, by virtue of 
the conduct of Chinese law enforcement vessels in the 
vicinity  of  Scarborough  Shoal,  created  a  serious  risk 
of  collision,  endangered  the  Philippine  vessels  and 
personnel, and thus violated article 94 of the Convention 
as well as rules 2, 6, 7, 8, 15 and 16 of the International 
Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972.
Tenth, the Tribunal ruled that China, in the course 
of the arbitration proceedings, aggravated and extended 
the  dispute  between  the  parties  through  its  dredging, 
artificial-island-building and construction activities in 
the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf 
of the Philippines.
Mr. Li Yongsheng (China): The unilateral initiation 
of  an  arbitration  proceeding  by 
the  Philippine’s 
Government  was  done  in  bad  faith.  It  aimed  not  to 
resolve  the  relevant  disputes  between  China  and 
the  Philippines  or  to  maintain  peace  and  stability  in 
the  South  China  Sea,  but  to  deny  China’s  territorial 
sovereignty, maritime rights and interests in the South 
China Sea. The initiation of this arbitration proceeding 
violates international law. The conduct of the Arbitral 
Tribunal and its ruling seriously contravene the general 
practice of international arbitration; completely deviate 
from  the  object  and  purpose  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), which 
is  to  promote  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes; 
substantially  impair  the  integrity  and  authority  of 
UNCLOS;  gravely  infringe  upon  China’s  legitimate 
right as a sovereign State and a State party to UNCLOS; 
and are unjust and unlawful.
16-29817
33/34
A/71/PV.21 
(spoke in Chinese)
At the moment, thanks to the concerted efforts of 
China  and  countries  of  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  the  situation  in  the  South 
China  Sea  is  progressing  in  a  positive  direction. 
Regional  countries  have  agreed  to  work  to  bring  the 
South China Sea issue back on the right track of dialogue 
and  consultation  in  a  forward-looking  spirit.  China 
stands  ready  to  work  with  ASEAN  countries  under 
regional  arrangements,  pursuant  to  the  Declaration 
on  the  Conduct  of  Parties  in  the  South  China  Sea,  to 
properly  handle  disputes,  enhance  mutual  trust,  steer 
clear of disruptions and jointly maintain the peace and 
stability of the South China Sea.
Mr. Bailen (Philippines): In reply to the statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  China,  may  I  just  say 
that  the  arbitration  proceedings,  which  were  initiated 
by  the  Philippines,  were  not  the  root  cause  of  the 
destabilization in the South China Sea. The root cause 
was  China’s  unilateral  and  aggressive  actions  on  the 
ground  that  changed  the  status  quo  and  imposed  its 
“nine-dash line” on other countries and China’s island-
building and escalation of activities in the area. Those 
include  the  increased  presence  of  military  assets  and 
the possibility of the further militarization of outposts 
in  the  South  China  Sea,  which  have  eroded  trust  and 
confidence, increased tensions and undermined peace, 
security  and  stability  in  the  region.  That  is  the  core 
issue.  It  has  been  recognized  in  documents  of  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  at 
the level of foreign ministers and ASEAN leaders. The 
arbitration is the effort of the Philippines to resolve the 
dispute on an equal footing and under the rule of law.
Secondly,  the  arbitration  has  not  aggravated  the 
disputes in the South China Sea. Arbitration is widely 
recognized  as  a  peaceful  means  of  solving  disputes. 
As  the  Arbitral  Tribunal  found,  it  had  jurisdiction. 
The ASEAN Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in 
the South China Sea does not limit the Philippines to 
bilateral  negotiations  exclusively,  especially  if  such 
bilateral negotiations prove to be unfair and one-sided. 
But having said that, I reiterate that the Philippines is 
24/09/2016
now fully engaged and ready to talk with China on the 
basis of the arbitral award.
Thirdly,  the  arbitration  does  not  derail  the  work 
of ASEAN and China on a code of conduct. The joint 
communiqué cited earlier by the ASEAN leaders states 
that  ASEAN  has  urged  all  parties  to  ensure  the  full 
and  effective  implementation  of  the  Declaration  on 
the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea and the 
expeditious  conclusion  of  a  code  of  conduct  to  build, 
maintain and enhance mutual trust and confidence and 
to  exercise  self-restraint  in  the  conduct  of  activities 
with  a  view  to  creating  a  positive  climate  for  the 
eventual resolution of all contentious issues. The future 
code  of  conduct  can  be  concluded  if  all  parties  have 
the political will and determination to make it happen. 
The arbitration and the code-of-conduct consultations 
are  moving  on  parallel  tracks,  and  the  Philippines  is 
committed to both. The Philippines fully supports the 
effective  role  of  its  partners  in  ASEAN  to  pave  the 
way forward.
they  relate 
to 
interpretations  of 
Finally,  may  I  just  say  that  the  decisions  handed 
down  by  arbitral  tribunals  are  binding,  particularly 
as 
international 
agreements  and  conventions,  such  as  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). 
The  Arbitral  Tribunal’s  award  states  that  the  decision 
is final and binding on the parties. It provides a sound 
basis for moving forward towards a new beginning: a 
rules-based  regime  in  the  South  China  Sea.  We  fully 
respect  the  Tribunal’s  award  as  an  affirmation  of 
UNCLOS. We believe in the fairness and thoroughness 
of  the  arbitral  proceedings  and  its  binding  character, 
and in the need for all States parties and all members 
of the international community to respect this outcome. 
China’s  non-acceptance  of  the  ruling  will  have  grave 
consequences  for  international  law  and  for  UNCLOS 
in  particular.  I  believe  that  we  would  not  want  that 
to happen.
Does the Government of China say that there is no 
international law in accordance with UNCLOS?
The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m.
34/34 
16-29817
