United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
34th plenary meeting
Thursday, 27 October 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.34
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 70
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/71/4)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/339)
The President: I welcome The Honourable Judge 
Ronny  Abraham,  President  of  the  International  Court 
of Justice, to the General Assembly. 
Before we turn to the report of the Court (A/71/4), 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  make  a  few 
remarks  about  the  role  of  the  Court  in  international 
relations  and  in  furthering  our  goal  of  the  peaceful 
settlement of international disputes.
In  April,  the  international  community  celebrated, 
in  The  Hague,  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  principal  judicial 
organ of the United Nations and the tireless custodian 
of  the  international  legal  order.  Over  the  past  seven 
decades, the success of the Court as an impartial arbiter 
has been proven time and again, as the confidence of 
the international community in the Court’s capacity to 
deliver justice has grown. More and more States have 
sought resolution of their disputes through the decisions 
of the International Court of Justice. It is clear that the 
existence of the Court and its ability to deliver justice 
for all have shaped the course of history.
We  can  ask  ourselves  how  many  conflicts,  how 
many  fatalities  and  how  much  human  suffering  have 
been avoided thanks to the availability of the Court to 
peacefully settle States’ international disputes. We can 
reflect as well on how much the rule of law has been 
strengthened internationally thanks to the authority of 
the Court’s judgments. Moreover, it would be impossible 
to  measure  how  many  international,  national  and 
sub-national  authorities  have  drawn  inspiration  from 
international  law,  based  upon  the  Court’s  judgments 
and advisory opinions. 
What  we  know  is  that  the  International  Court  of 
Justice is an indispensable part of the United Nations 
system  and  its  ability  to  maintain  international  peace 
and security. This landmark anniversary year calls on 
all  of  us  to  reflect  on  the  Court’s  critical  role.  Let  us 
therefore take this opportunity to reaffirm our steadfast 
support for the Court and its jurisdiction.
Let  me  express  my  appreciation  to  the  President 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  the  work  of 
the Court.
It is now my honour to invite Judge Ronny Abraham, 
President of the International Court of Justice, to take 
the floor.
Judge  Abraham, President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice (spoke  in  French):  I  would  like  to 
thank the General Assembly for continuing the practice 
of allowing the President of the International Court of 
Justice to present the activity of the Court over the past 
year, a practice that reflects the Assembly’s interest in 
and support for the Court.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-34541 (E)
*1634541*
A/71/PV.34 
27/10/2016
Before informing the Assembly about the work of 
the Court during the past 12 months, I would like to take 
this opportunity to congratulate you, Mr. President, on 
your election to the presidency of the General Assembly 
at its seventy-first session. I wish you every success in 
discharging that distinguished role.
Between 1 August 2015 — the starting date of the 
period  covered  by  the  Court’s  report  (A/71/4)  —  and 
today,  up  to  15  contentious  cases  have  been  pending 
before the Court, and hearings have been held in seven 
of  them.  The  Court  first  heard  the  oral  arguments 
of  the  parties  on  the  preliminary  objections  raised 
by  the  respondent  in  the  cases  Alleged  Violations 
of  Sovereign  Rights  and  Maritime  Spaces  in  the 
Caribbean Sea (Nicaragua v. Colombia) and Question 
of  the  Delimitation  of  the  Continental  Shelf  between 
Nicaragua  and  Colombia  beyond  200  nautical  miles 
from the Nicaraguan Coast (Nicaragua v. Colombia). It 
then held hearings on the questions of jurisdiction and 
admissibility raised in the cases Obligations concerning 
Negotiations relating to Cessation of the Nuclear Arms 
Race  and  to  Nuclear  Disarmament  (Marshall  Islands 
v. India), (Marshall Islands v. Pakistan) and (Marshall 
Islands v. United Kingdom). The Court also heard oral 
arguments  from  the  parties,  a  few  weeks  ago,  on  the 
preliminary  objections  raised  by  Kenya  in  the  case 
Maritime  Delimitation  in  the  Indian  Ocean  (Somalia 
v.  Kenya).  That  case  is  currently  under  deliberation. 
Finally, last week, between 17 and 19 October, the Court 
held  hearings  on  a  petition  for  provisional  measures 
submitted to it by Equatorial Guinea on 13 June 2016, 
in  the  case  Immunities  and  Criminal  Proceedings 
(Equatorial Guinea v. France). The Court will shortly 
render its decision on that petition.
Since 1 August 2015, the Court has also rendered 
seven  judgments.  One  contemplated  the  merits  of  the 
joined cases Certain Activities carried out by Nicaragua 
in  the  Border  Area  (Costa  Rica  v.  Nicaragua)  and 
Construction  of  a  Road  in  Costa  Rica  along  the  San 
Juan River (Nicaragua v. Costa Rica), and the other six 
settled preliminary questions relating to the jurisdiction 
of the Court and the admissibility of certain claims.
Lastly,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  Court  also 
decided,  for  the  first  time  in  many  years,  to  solicit 
an  expert  opinion  in  one  of  the  cases  pending  before 
it — the case Maritime Delimitation in the Caribbean 
Sea and the Pacific Ocean (Costa Rica v. Nicaragua). It 
did so by issuing an order to that effect on 31 May 2016.
I shall now give a brief account of the substance of 
those decisions. 
First, I shall address certain aspects of the judgment 
rendered on the merits of the claims of Costa Rica and 
Nicaragua  in  the  two  joined  cases  Certain  Activities 
carried  out  by  Nicaragua  in  the  Border  Area  (Costa 
Rica  v.  Nicaragua)  and  Construction  of  a  Road  in 
Costa  Rica  along  the  San  Juan  River  (Nicaragua  v. 
Costa Rica), respectively.
In its 16 December 2015 judgment, the Court first 
heard the first of those two cases. I would recall that 
the  proceedings  were  instituted  in  late  2010  by  Costa 
Rica,  which  complained  in  particular  that  Nicaragua 
had invaded and occupied what it claimed to be Costa 
Rican territory; that it had dug a channel, also known 
as  a  “caño”  thereon;  that  it  had  conducted  a  number 
of  works,  notably  dredging  in  the  San  Juan  River,  in 
violation  of  its  international  obligations;  that  it  had 
breached  the  provisional  measures  indicated  by  the 
Court in the case in 2011 and 2013; and, finally, that it 
had breached Costa Rica’s navigation rights on the San 
Juan River.
In  order  to  settle  the  dispute  before  it,  the  Court 
first dealt with the question of which of the two States 
had  sovereignty  over  the  disputed  territory.  To  do  so, 
the Court considered the Treaty of Limits by which the 
Parties had fixed the course of their land boundary in 
1858, as well as a number of arbitral awards in which 
two arbitrators had given their interpretation of certain 
disputed points in relation to the Treaty of Limits.
The  Court  concluded  from  its  analysis  of  those 
instruments  that  sovereignty  over  the  territory  in 
dispute in the case belonged to Costa Rica. It therefore 
found  that  the  activities  carried  out  by  Nicaragua  in 
that territory since 2010 were in breach of Costa Rica’s 
territorial sovereignty and that Nicaragua was obliged 
to make reparation for the damage caused.
The Court then turned to the question of whether, 
through its activities on its own territory, in particular in 
the San Juan River, Nicaragua had violated obligations 
incumbent  upon  it  under  international  environmental 
law.  It  considered  first  the  question  of  compliance 
with  procedural  obligations  that  had  allegedly  been 
breached, those obligations being of both a customary 
and  a  conventional  nature.  The  Court  found  that  the 
activities carried out by Nicaragua were not such as to 
give  rise  to  a  risk  of  significant  transboundary  harm 
and that the respondent was thus not under an obligation 
2/25 
16-34541
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.34
to carry out an environmental impact assessment, or to 
notify and consult with the applicant in that regard.
The Court further stated that it was not convinced 
that  Nicaragua  had  breached  any  obligation  to  notify 
and  consult  contained  in  international  conventions, 
as was alleged by Costa Rica in the case. It therefore 
concluded 
that  Nicaragua  had  not  violated  any 
procedural  obligations.  Secondly,  with  respect  to 
substantive  obligations,  the  Court  concluded  that  the 
available  evidence  did  not  show  that  Nicaragua  had 
caused  prejudice  to  the  territory  of  Costa  Rica  or 
breached  its  obligations  concerning  the  prevention  of 
transboundary harm by engaging in dredging activities 
in the lower San Juan River.
The  Court  continued  its  analysis  by  examining 
whether Nicaragua had breached its obligations under 
the  orders  handed  down  in  the  same  case  indicating 
provisional measures. Indeed, by an order of 8 March 
2011,  the  Court  had  ordered  a  number  of  provisional 
measures in that case, the binding nature of which was 
not  in  dispute.  I  would  recall  that  the  Court  stated  in 
its  LaGrand  (Germany  v.  United  States  of  America)
judgment,  rendered  on  27  June  2001,  that  such 
measures  are  binding  on  the  parties.  On  the  basis  of 
the facts presented to it, which were uncontested by the 
parties,  the  Court  found  that  Nicaragua  had  breached 
its obligations under the 2011 order.
The Court next addressed Costa Rica’s allegations 
that Nicaragua had committed a number of breaches of 
its navigational rights on the San Juan River. Finding that 
Nicaragua had not provided a convincing justification 
for the conduct of its authorities in incidents concerning 
navigation on the San Juan River by inhabitants of the 
Costa  Rican  bank  of  the  river,  the  Court  concluded 
that Nicaragua had breached Costa Rica’s navigational 
rights on the San Juan River pursuant to the 1858 Treaty 
of Limits.
Concerning  the  reparation  requested  by  Costa 
Rica, the Court held that the declaration that Nicaragua 
had breached the territorial sovereignty of Costa Rica 
by excavating three caños and establishing a military 
presence  in  the  disputed  territory  provided  adequate 
satisfaction  for  the  non-material  injury  suffered  on 
that  account;  the  same  applied  to  the  declaration  of 
the  breach  of  the  obligations  under  the  Court’s  order 
of  8  March  2011  on  provisional  measures,  and  to  the 
declaration of the breach of Costa Rica’s navigational 
rights.
The  Court  further  considered  that  Costa  Rica 
was  entitled  to  receive  compensation  for  the  material 
damage  caused  by  Nicaraguan  breaches.  It  stated 
that  the  parties  should  engage  in  negotiation  in  order 
to  reach  an  agreement  on  the  compensation  issues. 
However, the Court specified that if the parties failed to 
reach such an agreement within 12 months of the date 
of its judgment, it would itself, at the request of either 
party, determine the amount of compensation.
Having  examined  the  case  of  Certain  Activities 
carried  out  by  Nicaragua  in  the  Border  Area  (Costa 
Rica  v.  Nicaragua),  the  Court  turned  secondly  to  the 
matters in dispute in the case of Construction of a Road 
in  Costa  Rica  along  the  San  Juan  River  (Nicaragua 
v.  Costa  Rica).  I  would  recall  in  that  respect  that  the 
proceedings had been instituted by Nicaragua against 
Costa Rica on 22 December 2011, the applicant alleging 
“violations  of  Nicaraguan  sovereignty  and  major 
environmental  damages  to  its  territory”.  Nicaragua 
contended, in particular, that Costa Rica was carrying 
out  major  road  construction  works  in  the  border  area 
between the two countries, along the San Juan River, 
in breach of a number of international obligations and 
with grave environmental consequences for Nicaragua.
The Court therefore examined whether Costa Rica 
had breached obligations of a procedural or substantive 
nature  in  respect  of  environmental  protection.  With 
regard  to  the  procedural  obligations,  the  Court  first 
considered the alleged breach of the obligation to carry 
out an environmental impact assessment. It found that 
the road construction project undertaken by Costa Rica 
carried  a  risk  of  significant  transboundary  harm.  It 
therefore  concluded  that  the  threshold  for  triggering 
the  obligation  to  evaluate  the  environmental  impact 
of  the  road  project  had  been  met.  Finding  also  that 
Costa  Rica  had,  in  any  event,  not  shown  the  claimed 
existence of an emergency that would, in its view, have 
justified constructing the road without undertaking an 
environmental impact assessment, the Court considered 
whether Costa Rica had complied, in the circumstances 
of  the  case,  with  its  obligation  to  carry  out  such  an 
assessment.
It observed that that obligation required an ex ante 
evaluation  of  the  risk  of  significant  transboundary 
harm  —  that  is  to  say,  before  the  implementation  of 
the project — whereas the studies carried out by Costa 
Rica  were  post  hoc  assessments  that  evaluated  the 
environmental impact of stretches of the road already 
built, and not the risk of future harm. The Court thus 
16-34541
3/25
A/71/PV.34 
27/10/2016
concluded  that  Costa  Rica  had  not  complied  with  its 
obligation under general international law to carry out 
an  environmental  impact  assessment  concerning  the 
construction of the road. In view of that conclusion, the 
Court  considered  that  it  need  not  determine  whether 
Costa Rica was required under general international law 
to notify and consult with Nicaragua, prior to carrying 
out the work. It also found that it was not established 
that Costa Rica had violated any obligation to notify or 
consult pursuant to the treaties invoked by Nicaragua.
The Court went on to consider the alleged breaches 
of  substantive  obligations 
incumbent  upon  Costa 
Rica  under  international  environmental  law.  After 
examining  the  relevant  evidence,  the  Court  found 
that Nicaragua had not proved that the construction of 
the  road  had  caused  significant  transboundary  harm 
and  therefore  rejected  Nicaragua’s  claim  that  Costa 
Rica  had  violated  its  substantive  obligations  under 
common  international  law  regarding  transboundary 
harm. The Court also rejected the rest of Nicaragua’s 
submissions concerning Costa Rica’s alleged violations 
of substantive obligations contained in various treaties, 
Nicaragua having failed to demonstrate that Costa Rica 
had disregarded the texts in question.
Lastly, the Court considered Nicaragua’s claim that 
the  dumping  of  sediment  caused  by  the  construction 
of the road and the creation of sediment deltas in the 
river  constituted  a  violation  of  its  territorial  integrity 
and sovereignty over the San Juan river. It found that 
claim  unconvincing,  observing  that  Costa  Rica  did 
not  exercise  any  authority  on  Nicaragua’s  territory, 
including the river, and did not carry out any activity 
thereon.  It  therefore  dismissed  Nicaragua’s  claim  in 
that regard.
With  regard  to  the  reparations  requested  by 
Nicaragua,  the  Court  concluded  that  a  declaration  of 
wrongful conduct in respect of Costa Rica’s violation 
of  the  obligation  to  conduct  an  environmental  impact 
assessment was an appropriate measure of satisfaction.
As I mentioned in my introduction, during the period 
under review the Court also delivered six judgments on 
preliminary questions relating either to jurisdiction or 
admissibility. On 24 September 2015, it handed down a 
judgment by which it rejected the preliminary objection 
to jurisdiction raised by Chile in the case concerning 
an Obligation to Negotiate Access to the Pacific Ocean 
(Bolivia  v.  Chile).  Having  presented  that  judgment  in 
the statement that I had the honour to make last year to 
the Assembly (see A/70/PV.47), I shall not go back over 
that decision.
I will therefore begin by recalling certain elements 
of  the  judgments  rendered  by  the  Court  on  17  March 
2016  in  two  cases  brought  by  Nicaragua  against 
Colombia,  namely,  the  case  concerning  the  Question 
of  the  Delimitation  of  the  Continental  Shelf  between 
Nicaragua  and  Colombia  beyond  200  nautical  miles 
from  the  Nicaraguan  Coast  (Nicaragua  v.  Colombia)
and  that  concerning  Alleged  Violations  of  Sovereign 
Rights  and  Maritime  Spaces  in  the  Caribbean  Sea 
(Nicaragua v. Colombia). 
The  first  of  those  two  cases  was  introduced  in 
September  2013  regarding  a  dispute  concerning  the 
delimitation  of,  on  the  one  hand,  the  continental 
shelf  of  Nicaragua  extending  beyond  —  according 
to  Nicaragua  —  the  200-nautical-mile  limit  from  the 
baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea 
of Nicaragua is measured, and on the other hand, the 
continental shelf of Colombia.
Colombia 
then  raised  preliminary  objections. 
The  first  concerned  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  ratione 
temporis. Indeed, in its application, Nicaragua sought 
to  found  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  in  article  XXXI  of 
the  American  Treaty  on  Pacific  Settlement,  signed 
on  30  April  1948,  also  known  as  the  Pact  of  Bogota. 
However,  having  denounced 
instrument  on 
27  November  2012,  Colombia  maintained  the  Court 
had  no  jurisdiction  since  the  proceedings  had  been 
instituted on 16 September 2013. 
that 
In  its  judgment,  the  Court  recalled  that  the  date 
at  which  its  jurisdiction  has  to  be  established  is  the 
date on which the application is filed. Under the terms 
of  article  XXXI  of  the  Pact  of  Bogota,  the  parties 
recognize as compulsory the jurisdiction of the Court 
“as  long  as  the  ...  Treaty  remains  in  force”.  The  first 
paragraph  of  article  LVI  of  the  Treaty  provides  that, 
following denunciation of the Pact by a State party, the 
Treaty  shall  remain  in  force  between  the  denouncing 
State  party  and  other  parties  for  a  period  of  one  year  
following the notification of denunciation. 
The Court noted Nicaragua’s application had been 
filed after Colombia had given notice of denunciation 
but before the expiration of the one-year period referred 
to in the first paragraph of article LVI. The only question 
raised  by  Colombia’s  first  preliminary  objection  was 
whether an a contrario interpretation could be applied 
to the second paragraph of article LVI, which states that
4/25 
16-34541
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.34
“The  denunciation  shall  have  no  effect  with 
respect to ongoing procedures initiated prior to the 
transmission of the particular notification.”
An affirmative response to that question would have 
allowed the Court to declare that it lacked jurisdiction 
in respect of the proceedings, even if the proceedings 
had been instituted while the Treaty was still in force 
between  the  parties.  After  examining  the  provisions 
of  the  Treaty,  the  Court  answered  the  above  question 
in  the  negative.  It  therefore  rejected  Colombia’s  first 
preliminary objection.
The  Court  also  considered  two  further  objections 
to  jurisdiction,  both  of  which  were  rejected.  It  found 
that,  contrary  to  Colombia’s  assertions,  it  had  not 
taken  a  decision  on  whether  or  not  Nicaragua  had  an 
entitlement to a continental shelf beyond 200 nautical 
miles  from  its  coast  in  its  2012  judgment  between 
the  same  parties,  and  that,  consequently,  it  was  not 
precluded, by the res judicata principle, from ruling on 
the  application  submitted  by  Nicaragua  in  September 
2013. The Court also took the view that, Nicaragua was 
not requesting the Court to revise the 2012 judgment, 
nor was it framing its application as an appeal against 
that judgment, as Colombia had argued.
admissibility  of  Nicaragua’s 
The  Court  further  ruled  concerning  the  request 
the 
requests. 
on 
that  Nicaragua’s  request 
Colombia  first  asserted 
regarding  the  delineation  of  the  maritime  boundary 
between  Nicaragua  and  Colombia  in  the  areas  of  the 
continental  shelf  which  appertain  to  each  of  them, 
beyond  the  boundaries  determined  by  the  Court  in 
its  2012  judgment,  was  inadmissible  owing  to  the 
fact  that  Nicaragua  had  not  secured  the  requisite 
recommendation  on  the  establishment  of  the  outer 
limits of its continental shelf from the Commission on 
the Limits of the Continental Shelf.
The  Court  considered  that,  since  delimitation  of 
the  continental  shelf  beyond  200  nautical  miles  can 
be  undertaken  independently  from  a  recommendation 
from the Commission on the Limits of the Continental 
Shelf, that recommendation is not a prerequisite for a 
State  party  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea  asking  the  Court  to  settle  a  dispute 
with another State over such a delimitation. It therefore 
rejected the objection.
Colombia then argued that Nicaragua’s request —
whereby it asked the Court to establish the principles 
and  rules  of  international  law  determining  the  rights 
and duties of the two States in the continental shelf area 
where  their  claims  overlap,  pending  the  delimitation 
of  the  maritime  boundary  of  the  parties  beyond  200 
nautical miles from the Nicaraguan coast — concerned 
a non-existent dispute and was inadmissible. The Court 
observed  that  the  request  did  not  involve  an  actual 
dispute  between  the  parties,  nor  did  it  specify  what 
exactly the Court was being asked to decide. It therefore 
upheld Colombia’s objection.
The proceedings on the merits have therefore been 
resumed, and the Court, by an order of 28 April 2016, 
fixed the dates for the filing of a memorial by Nicaragua 
and a counter-memorial by Colombia on the questions 
raised by the first request put forward by Nicaragua in 
its application.
As  I  have  said,  the  Court  delivered  a  second 
judgment on 17 March 2016 — the same day — in the 
case concerning Alleged Violations of Sovereign Rights 
and Maritime Spaces in the Caribbean Sea (Nicaragua 
v. Colombia). In that case, Nicaragua’s application was 
filed on 26 November 2013 relating to
“a dispute concern[ing] the violations of Nicaragua’s 
sovereign  rights  and  maritime  zones  declared  by 
the  Court’s  judgment  of  19  November  2012  [in 
the  case  concerning  the  Territorial  and  Maritime 
Dispute (Nicaragua v. Colombia)] and the threat of 
the use of force by Colombia in order to implement 
these violations”. 
Colombia 
raised  preliminary  objections, 
the 
first  which  is  that  raised  in  the  case  I  just  described, 
related to the Court’s jurisdiction ratione temporis. The 
objection  was  rejected  for  the  same  reason  that  I  set 
out earlier.
In  its  second  objection,  Colombia  argued  that 
the  Court  did  not  have  jurisdiction,  because  there 
was  no  dispute  between  the  parties  on  the  date  that 
the  application  was  filed.  The  Court  recalled  in  that 
connection that Nicaragua was formulating two distinct 
claims,  one,  that  Colombia  had  violated  Nicaragua’s 
sovereign rights and its maritime zones, and the other, 
that Colombia had breached its obligation not to use or 
threaten to use force. 
After  examining  the  evidence  submitted  to  it, 
the  Court  found  that  at  the  time  of  the  filing  of  the 
application, there did indeed exist a dispute concerning 
the alleged violations by Colombia of Nicaragua’s rights 
in the maritime zones, which, according to Nicaragua, 
16-34541
5/25
A/71/PV.34 
27/10/2016
the Court declared in its 2012 judgment to appertain to 
Nicaragua. The Court thus rejected the objection raised 
by  Colombia  regarding  the  absence  of  a  dispute  in 
respect of that claim. By contrast, the Court considered 
that on the date of the filing of the application there was 
no  dispute  concerning  Nicaragua’s  second  claim,  and 
it therefore upheld the objection raised by Colombia in 
that regard.
In its third objection, Colombia contended that the 
Court  lacked  competence  under  the  Pact  of  Bogota, 
because at the time of the filing of the application, the 
parties were not of the opinion that the purported dispute 
could not be settled by direct negotiations through the 
usual diplomatic channels. However, having examined 
the  evidence,  the  Court  concluded  that  at  the  date  of 
Nicaragua’s  filing  of  the  application,  neither  party 
could plausibly maintain that the dispute between them 
could  be  settled  by  direct  negotiations.  Colombia’s 
third preliminary objection was thus rejected, as was its 
fifth, according to which the Court had no jurisdiction 
with regard to compliance with a prior judgment. The 
Court observed that the objection rested in the premise 
that  the  Court  was  being  asked  to  enforce  its  2012 
judgment. However, it noted Nicaragua does not seek 
to enforce the 2012 judgment as such.
Finally,  the  Court  did  not  have  to  rule  upon  the 
fourth  objection,  which  concerned  another  basis  for 
competence  invoked  by  Nicaragua  as  an  alternative 
ground,  the  examination  of  which  was  unnecessary. 
So the proceedings on the merits have been resumed in 
respect of the first claim put forward by Nicaragua in 
its applications, and the Court, by an order of 17 March 
2016,  fixed  the  time  limit  for  the  filing  of  a  counter-
memorial by Colombia.
(spoke in English)
I  shall  now  briefly  present  the  three  judgments 
rendered  by  the  Court  on  5  October  in  the  cases  of 
Obligations  concerning  Negotiations  relating 
to 
Cessation  of  the  Nuclear  Arms  Race  and  to  Nuclear 
Disarmament  (Marshall  Islands  v.  India,  Marshall 
Islands  v.  Pakistan  and  Marshall  Islands  v.  United 
Kingdom). I will do so in the other official language of 
the Court.
I would recall that on 24 April 2014, the Marshall 
Islands filed in the Registry of the Court applications 
instituting proceedings against India, Pakistan and the 
United  Kingdom,  alleging  the  failure  of  those  States 
to  fulfil  their  obligations  concerning  negotiations 
relating  to  the  cessation  of  the  nuclear  arms  race  and 
to nuclear disarmament. The respondents subsequently 
raised  preliminary  objections  to  the  jurisdiction  of 
the Court and to the admissibility of the applications, 
arguing, in particular, that the Court lacked jurisdiction 
on the grounds that there was no dispute between the 
parties at the time that the applications were filed. In its 
judgments the Court began by examining that objection.
The Court observed that the existence of a dispute 
between the parties was a condition of its jurisdiction. 
In  order  for  a  dispute  to  exist,  it  must  be  shown  that 
the  claim  of  one  party  is  positively  opposed  by 
the  other;  the  two  sides  must  hold  clearly  opposite 
views  concerning  the  question  of  the  performance  or 
non-performance  of  certain  international  obligations. 
In  order  to  demonstrate  that,  the  evidence  must  show 
that the respondent was aware, or could not have been 
unaware, that its views were positively opposed by the 
applicant.  Those  conditions  must  in  principle  be  met 
on  the  date  of  the  filing  of  the  application;  although 
the  parties’  conduct  during  the  proceedings  may  be 
relevant for various purposes — notably in clarifying 
the subject matter of the dispute — it is not sufficient to 
establish the existence of a dispute between them.
In its judgments, the Court considered whether, as 
the Marshall Islands claimed, statements made by the 
respondents in multilateral forums before the date of the 
filing of the applications could lead to the conclusion 
that  there  was  a  dispute  between  the  applicant  and 
each  respondent.  The  Court  concluded  in  the  three 
cases that, on the basis of those statements — whether 
taken  individually  or  together  —  it  could  not  be  said 
that  the  respondents  were  aware,  or  could  not  have 
been unaware; that the Marshall Islands was making an 
allegation that they were in breach of their obligations. 
Those  statements  were  thus  insufficient  to  bring 
into  existence  a  legal  dispute  between  the  parties. 
It  also  found  that,  in  that  context,  the  conduct  of  the 
respondents  did  not  allow  for  the  conclusion  that  a 
dispute existed.
Lastly,  I  would  mention  one  final  aspect  of  those 
decisions that is of particular interest. In its judgments, 
the  Court  stated  that  considerable  care  was  required 
before inferring, from votes cast on resolutions before 
political  organs,  such  as 
the  General  Assembly, 
conclusions  as  to  the  existence  or  not  of  a  legal 
dispute  on  some  issue  covered  by  those  resolutions. 
The wording of a resolution and the votes or patterns 
of  voting  on  resolutions  on  the  same  subject  matter 
6/25 
16-34541
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.34
may  constitute  relevant  evidence  of  the  existence  of 
a  dispute  in  some  circumstances,  particularly  where 
statements  were  made  by  way  of  explanation  of  vote. 
However,  some  resolutions  contain  a  large  number  of 
different propositions; a State’s vote on such resolutions 
cannot  by  itself  be  taken  as  indicative  of  the  position 
of that State on each and every proposition within that 
resolution, let alone of the existence of a legal dispute 
between that State and another State regarding one of 
those propositions.
The Court concluded in all three judgments that the 
objection to jurisdiction raised by the respondents and 
based on the absence of a dispute between the parties 
had to be upheld. It therefore found no need to consider 
the  other  objections  raised  by  the  respondents.  Since 
the  Court  lacked  jurisdiction,  it  could  not  proceed  to 
the merits of the cases.
I  have,  then,  described  the  substance  of  the 
judgments rendered by the Court during the past year. 
Before outlining the new cases brought before it in the 
course  of  the  same  period,  I  shall  briefly  discuss  the 
order  dated  31  May  2016,  whereby  the  Court  decided 
to arrange for an expert opinion in the case concerning 
maritime  delimitation  in  the  Caribbean  Sea  and  the 
Pacific Ocean, Costa Rica v. Nicaragua. 
In that case, the Court was of the view that there 
were certain factual matters relating to the state of the 
coast  between  the  point  suggested  by  Costa  Rica  and 
the  point  suggested  by  Nicaragua  in  their  pleadings 
as the starting point of their maritime boundary in the 
Caribbean Sea that could be relevant for the purpose of 
settling the dispute submitted to the Court. The Court 
considered  that  with  regard  to  such  matters  it  would 
benefit  from  an  expert  opinion.  Two  geomorphology 
experts have therefore been appointed to conduct two 
site visits and draw up a report that will be communicated 
to the Court and the parties before hearings are held in 
the case. I should point out that this is only the second 
time that the Court has decided to apply Article 50 of 
its  Statute,  according  to  which  it  “may,  at  any  time, 
entrust  any  individual,  body,  bureau,  commission,  or 
other organization that it may select, with the task of 
carrying out an enquiry or giving an expert opinion.”
While  in  the  past  the  Court  has  often  considered 
expert reports or even heard from such experts, in most 
cases  the  experts  have  been  presented  by  the  parties 
themselves, either as members of their delegations or as 
independent  experts.  This  time,  however,  the  Court’s 
decision  to  arrange  for  an  expert  opinion  at  its  own 
request has obliged it to ask the General Assembly for an 
additional budget in order to cover the extra costs. I am 
sure that it can count on the Assembly’s understanding 
and support in that regard. The Court has deemed the 
expert opinion in question to be essential to its sound 
administration of justice, in this instance its sovereign 
exercise  of  its  responsibilities  under  the  Statute. 
Although  the  additional  $12,000  is  relatively  modest, 
it  cannot  be  absorbed  by  the  Court’s  current  budget, 
which is 10 per cent lower than the appropriations for 
the biennium 2014-2015.
I  come  now  to  the  new  cases  brought  before  the 
Court. 
to 
On  6  June,  the  Republic  of  Chile  instituted 
proceedings  against  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia 
with regard to a dispute over the status and use of the 
waters of the Silala. Chile alleges that the Silala is an 
international  watercourse  that  flows  between  the  two 
States  but  that  status  has  been  disputed  by  Bolivia 
since 1999, claiming the Silala’s waters as exclusively 
Bolivian.  According  to  the  application,  the  dispute 
between the two States therefore concerns the nature of 
the Silala as a watercourse and the resulting rights and 
obligations  of  the  parties  under  international  law.  By 
an order dated 1 July, the Court fixed 3 July 2017 and 
3 July 2018 as the respective time limits for the filing of 
a memorial by Chile and a counter-memorial by Bolivia.
On  13  June  2016,  the  Republic  of  Equatorial 
Guinea  instituted  proceedings  against  France  with 
regard 
immunities  and  criminal  proceedings. 
Equatorial Guinea contends, among other things, that 
by  initiating  criminal  proceedings  against  its  Second 
Vice-President in charge of Defence and State Security 
and by ordering the legal attachment of a building said 
to  house  Equatorial  Guinea’s  embassy,  France  has 
disregarded  immunities  accorded  under  international 
law and has violated Equatorial Guinea’s sovereignty. 
By  an  order  dated  1  July,  the  Court  fixed  3  January 
2017 and 3 July 2017 as the respective time limits for 
the filing of a memorial by the Republic of Equatorial 
Guinea and a counter-memorial by the French Republic. 
On  29  September,  Equatorial  Guinea  filed  a  request 
for the indication of provisional measures in the case, 
contending that the pursuit of criminal proceedings in 
France against the Vice-President and the property of 
Equatorial  Guinea  and  France’s  refusal  to  respect  the 
building located at 42 avenue Foch in Paris as premises 
of  Equatorial  Guinea’s  diplomatic  mission  in  France 
16-34541
7/25
A/71/PV.34 
27/10/2016
created a real and imminent risk of irreparable prejudice 
to  the  rights  of  Equatorial  Guinea.  As  I  mentioned 
earlier,  hearings  on  the  request  were  held  from  17  to 
19 October.
Lastly,  on  14  June,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
instituted  proceedings  against 
the  United  States 
of  America  with  regard  to  a  dispute  concerning 
certain  Iranian  assets,  alleging  in  particular  that  the 
United  States  has  adopted  a  number  of  legislative 
and  executive  acts  that  have  the  practical  effect  of 
subjecting the assets and interests of Iran and Iranian 
entities,  including  those  of  the  Central  Bank  of  Iran, 
to enforcement proceedings, in breach of jurisdictional 
immunities  recognized  by  customary  international 
law and by the provisions of the 1955 Treaty of Amity, 
Economic Relations, and Consular Rights between Iran 
and  the  United  States  of  America,  which  is  binding 
between the parties. After consulting with the parties, 
the Court fixed 1 February 2017 and 1 September 2017 
as the respective time limits for the filing of a memorial 
by the Islamic Republic of Iran and a counter-memorial 
by the United States of America.
That  brings  to  three  the  number  of  new  cases 
submitted  to  the  Court  during  the  period  under 
review  and  to  11  the  total  number  of  cases  currently 
on  the  Court’s  docket.  The  diversity  and  complexity 
of  the  cases  that  the  Court  has  dealt  with  this  year 
is  emblematic  of  its  activities  in  recent  years.  As  my 
report shows, the new cases filed earlier this year add 
to that diversity.
Mr. Braun (Germany), Vice-President, took the Chair.
This  year,  the  Court  reached  another  milestone 
when it celebrated its seventieth anniversary in April. 
We held a formal sitting in The Hague for the occasion 
and were honoured that it was attended by the Secretary-
General. On Monday I had the privilege of opening an 
exhibition  entitled  “70  Years  in  the  Service  of  Peace 
and Justice”, organized at United Nations Headquarters 
for the anniversary and open to visitors to this building.
While we should celebrate the work that the Court 
has accomplished over the past 70 years, we have not 
lost  sight  of  the  importance  of  continually  reflecting 
on  the  need  to  adapt  the  Court’s  working  methods  in 
order to respond to the increase in its workload and the 
complexity of the cases submitted to it. I would like to 
assure the Assembly that the Court will continue to use 
all the resources at its disposal to fulfil its role as the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations.
(spoke in French)
I would like to thank the Assembly once again for 
giving  me  the  opportunity  to  address  it  today,  and  I 
wish  the  Assembly  every  success  in  its  seventy-first 
session.
The Acting President: I thank the President of the 
International Court of Justice.
Mr.  Khoshroo  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  have 
the  honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement.
to  agenda 
item  70,  “Report  of 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  attaches  great 
importance 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice”,  and  takes  note  of  the 
Court’s report contained in document A/71/4 regarding 
the activities of the Court between 1 August 2015 and 
31 July 2016, as requested by the decision of the General 
Assembly last year. 
I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International Court of Justice for his presentation of the 
report to the Assembly.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
reaffirms  and 
underscores  its  principled  position  concerning  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes and the non-use or threat 
of use of force. The International Court of Justice plays 
a  significant  role  in  promoting  and  encouraging  the 
settlement of international disputes by peaceful means, 
as called for in the Charter of the United Nations, and 
it does so in such a manner that international peace and 
security and justice are not endangered.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  endeavours 
to 
generate  further  progress  to  achieve  full  respect  for 
international law and, in that connection, commends the 
role of the International Court of Justice in promoting 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes  in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  —  particularly  Articles  33  and 
94 — and the Statute of the Court.
With  regard  to  advisory  opinions  of  the  Court, 
given  that  the  Security  Council  has  not  sought  any 
advisory  opinion  from  the  Court  since  1970,  NAM 
urges the Security Council to make greater use of the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  principal  judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  as  a  source  of  advisory 
opinions  on  and  interpretations  of  the  relevant  norms 
of international law and controversial issues. It further 
requests  the  Council  to  use  the  Court  as  a  source  for 
8/25 
16-34541
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.34
interpreting  relevant  international  law  and  also  urges 
the Council to consider having its decisions be reviewed 
by the Court, bearing in mind the need to ensure their 
adherence  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
international law.
The World Court hands down judgments and provides 
advisory opinions in accordance with its Statute, which 
is an integral part of the Charter of the United Nations, 
and  thus  contributes  to  promoting  and  clarifying 
international law.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  also 
the 
General Assembly, other organs of the United Nations 
and  the  specialized  agencies  to  request  advisory 
opinions of the International Court of Justice on legal 
questions arising within the scope of their activities.
invites 
reaffirms 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
the 
importance  of  the  unanimous  opinion  issued  by  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  on  8  July  1996  on  the 
Legality of the threat or use of nuclear weapons. In that 
case, the Court concluded that there exists an obligation 
to  pursue  in  good  faith  and  bring  to  a  conclusion 
negotiations  leading  to  nuclear  disarmament  in  all  its 
aspects under strict and effective international control.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  continues  to  call 
on  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  to  fully  respect  the 
International Court of Justice’s advisory opinion on the 
Legal  Consequences  of  the  Construction  of  a  Wall  in 
the Occupied Palestinian Territory, dated 9 July 2004. 
It calls upon all States to respect and ensure the respect 
of the provisions therein for the realization of the end 
of the Israeli occupation, which began in 1967, and for 
the  independence  of  the  State  of  Palestine  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital.
Mr. Joyini (South Africa): My delegation has the 
honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African 
States. 
The  African  Group  associates  itself  with  the 
statement  just  delivered  by  the  representative  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement.
At  the  outset,  the  African  Group  would  like  to 
thank  the  President  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, Judge Ronny Abraham, for his presentation and 
also  for  the  report  on  the  Court’s  activities  contained 
in  document  A/71/4.  The  African  Group  continues  to 
consider  the  International  Court  of  Justice  to  be  the 
pre-eminent mechanism for the peaceful settlement of 
disputes at the international level.
The  African  Group  welcomes  the  reaffirmed 
confidence  that  States  have  shown  in  the  Court’s 
ability  to  resolve  their  disputes.  In  particular,  we  are 
pleased  to  see  that  States  continue  to  refer  disputes 
to  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  We  commend 
States for no longer limiting their referral of cases to 
matters  of  little  political  significance,  as  we  now  see 
the Court deciding disputes involving weighty political 
issues. The number of cases currently pending on the 
International Court of Justice’s docket is a reflection of 
the esteem in which States hold the Court.
Notwithstanding  the  proliferation  of  international 
judicial  dispute-settlement  mechanisms  on  both  a 
specialized and a regional basis, the International Court 
of  Justice  continues  to  attract  a  wide  range  of  cases, 
covering many areas. While the Court’s determination 
of whether there exists an obligation to cooperate in a 
particular case is based principally on treaty obligations, 
the  Court  also  clearly  draws  upon  general  principles, 
particularly in making the link between procedural and 
substantive obligations.
The  Court  draws  significantly  on  the  principle  of 
prevention, enunciated in its earlier decisions — notably 
the  Corfu  Channel  case  and  in  the  advisory  opinion 
on the threat or use of nuclear weapons. Therefore the 
African Group reaffirms the importance of the Court’s 
unanimous advisory opinion issued on 8 July 1996 on 
the  Legality  of  the  threat  or  use  of  nuclear  weapons. 
In that decision, the Court concluded that there exists 
an  obligation  to  pursue  in  good  faith  and  bring  to  a 
conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament 
in all its aspects under strict and effective international 
control.  The  Group  of  African  States  attaches  great 
importance to that matter because Africa is a nuclear-
weapon-free zone. In that regard, it is interesting to note 
that the current list of cases before the Court includes 
cases  on  the  obligation  to  enter  into  negotiations 
relating to the cessation of the nuclear arms race and to 
nuclear disarmament.
It should be kept in mind that the Court, as a court 
of justice and the principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations,  occupies  a  special  position.  Everything  that 
the Court does is aimed at promoting the rule of law. 
For example, by an order dated 19 June 2015, the 
International  Court  of  Justice  fixed  a  time  limit  for 
the  filing  by  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  of 
a recent statement of its observations and submissions 
16-34541
9/25
A/71/PV.34 
27/10/2016
on  the  preliminary  objections  raised  by  the  United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in the 
case. The Marshall Islands invoked breaches of article 
VI  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT)  by  the  United  Kingdom.  Article  VI 
of  the  NPT  provides  that  each  of  the  parties  to  the 
Treaty  undertakes  to  pursue  negotiations  in  good 
faith on effective measures relating to the cessation of 
the  nuclear  arms  race  at  an  early  date  and  to  nuclear 
disarmament, and on a treaty on general and complete 
disarmament  under  strict  and  effect  international 
control. The Marshall Islands contended that the United 
Kingdom has breached and continues to breach its legal 
duty  to  fulfilling,  in  good  faith,  its  obligations  under 
the NPT and customary international law.
According  to  the  Marshall  Islands,  the  conduct 
of  the  respondent  and  its  assertions  of  the  legality  of 
its  behaviour,  juxtaposed  with  the  statements  of  the 
Marshall Islands containing a complaint aimed precisely 
at  that  conduct  and  the  legal  position  of  the  United 
Kingdom, demonstrate the existence of a dispute as to 
the scope of and compliance with its obligations under 
article VI of the NPT and the corresponding customary 
international law obligations. 
The Court recalls that the question whether there is 
a dispute in a particular contentious issue turns on the 
evidence of the opposition of views. In that regard, the 
conduct of a respondent can contribute to a finding by 
the Court that the views of the parties are in opposition. 
However, as the Court has previously concluded, in the 
present case, none of the statements that were made in a 
multilateral context by the Marshall Islands offered any 
particulars  regarding  the  United  Kingdom’s  conduct. 
On the basis of such statements, it cannot be said the 
United  Kingdom  was  aware,  or  could  not  have  been 
unaware,  that  the  Marshall  Islands  was  making  an 
allegation that the United Kingdom was in breach of its 
obligations. In that context, the conduct of the United 
Kingdom does not provide a basis for finding a dispute 
between the two States before the Court.
The  Court  therefore  concludes  that  the  first 
preliminary  objection  made  by  the  United  Kingdom 
must  be  upheld.  It  follows  that  the  Court  does  not 
have jurisdiction under Article 36, paragraph 2, of its 
Statute. Consequently, it is not necessary for the Court 
to deal with the other objections raised by the United 
Kingdom. For those reasons, the Court, by eight votes 
to eight, with the President casting a vote, upholds the 
first preliminary objection to jurisdiction raised by the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
based on the absence of a dispute between the parties. 
By nine votes to seven, the Court finds that it cannot 
proceed to the merits of the case.
The  importance  of  advisory  opinions  on  legal 
questions referred to the International Court of Justice 
cannot  be  overstated  in  the  pursuit  of  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes in accordance with the Charter of 
the United Nations. It is therefore rather disappointing 
that  during  the  period  under  review,  no  requests  for 
advisory opinions were made.
Mr.  Misztal  (Poland):  On  behalf  of  the  Visegrád 
Group,  consisting  of  the  Czech  Republic,  Hungary, 
Slovakia and my own country, Poland, I would like to 
thank the President of the International Court of Justice, 
Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  for  presenting  the  Court’s 
report  for  the  1  August  2015  to  31  July  2016  period 
(A/71/4).  I  have  the  honour  to  present  our  Group’s 
common  position  with  respect  to  the  International 
Court of Justice’s report.
The  Visegrád  Group  supports  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the 
United Nations. We commend the Court for its role in 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes  and 
for its contribution, by those means, to the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  The  Court  has 
a  unique  role  in  the  interpretation  and  application 
of  public  international  law.  The  Visegrád  Group 
acknowledges  with  appreciation  that,  by  identifying 
the  norms  of  customary  international  law,  the  Court 
significantly contributes to the increased effectiveness 
of international law.
The Court is universal in its character, as all Member 
States  can  be  parties  to  cases  before  it.  Furthermore, 
the  universality  of  the  Court  lies  in  its  jurisdiction, 
which  covers  the  whole  field  of  international  law. 
The  Court  decides  on  cases  concerning,  among  other 
things, territorial and maritime disputes, environmental 
damage  and  the  conservation  of  living  resources,  the 
prosecution  or  extradition  of  former  Heads  of  State, 
sovereign  immunity  and  the  use  of  force.  In  that 
context,  we  commend  the  broadening  of  the  fields  of 
public  international  law  that  are  touched  upon  by  the 
Court in its decisions.
The  cases  brought  before  the  Court  —  although 
the  decisions  are  binding  only  on  the  parties  to  the 
dispute — are of great importance for the international 
community  as  a  whole.  Every  new  judgment  of  the 
10/25 
16-34541
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.34
Court  marks  another  step  towards  the  strengthening 
of  the  international  legal  order  and  the  promotion  of 
the  rule  of  law  and  friendly  relations  among  States. 
We  also  highly  value  the  Court’s  contribution  to 
the  strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law  in  international 
relations through its advisory opinions.
The mission of the Court cannot be entirely fulfilled 
without  the  full  commitment  of  all  Member  States  to 
comply with their obligations concerning the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes.  Respect  for  and  compliance 
with the Court’s decisions, both judgments and orders, 
are  the  fundamental  prerequisite  for  the  effectiveness 
of  the  system  of  international  justice.  The  obligation 
of the parties to a dispute to implement in good faith 
the  Court’s  decisions  is  crucial  to  the  concept  of  the 
peaceful settlement of international disputes.
With  regard  to  the  issue  of  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court, it is worth recalling that it can be conferred on 
the Court not only by way of a unilateral declaration by 
States but also through special agreements and treaties. 
Since the exercise of the Court’s jurisdiction is based 
on the consent of States, it is important that States use 
those ways to accept the Court’s jurisdiction. A case in 
point is the International Agreement on Olive Oil and 
Table  Olives,  adopted  in  Geneva  on  9  October  2015, 
article  26  of  which  provides  for  the  right  of  recourse 
to  the  Court  by  a  member  of  the  International  Olive 
Council’s decision-making body.
As this is the first time that the Visegrád Group has 
spoken with one voice during the consideration of the 
International  Court  of  Justice’s  report  in  the  General 
Assembly, I would like to ensure the Assembly of our 
Group’s support for the Court and to express our best 
wishes to the Court in the accomplishment of its lofty 
mission in rendering justice and strengthening the role 
of international law in the world.
Mr.  Dolphin  (New  Zealand):  I  have  the  honour 
to  speak  today  on  behalf  of  the  group  of  countries 
consisting of Australia, Canada and my own country, 
New Zealand.
Our group would like to thank the President of the 
International Court of Justice, Mr. Ronny Abraham, for 
his report on the work of the Court over the past year. 
As countries that firmly believe in the rule of law and 
the  importance  of  a  rules-based  international  system, 
our group continues to be a long-standing supporter of 
the International Court of Justice.
The  group  recognizes  the  crucial  role  that  the 
Court plays as the principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations. Our confidence in the Court is reflected in our 
acceptance of the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction. We 
firmly believe that wider acceptance of the compulsory 
jurisdiction of the Court would enable it to fulfil its role 
more effectively and to further encourage the peaceful 
settlement of disputes. We therefore encourage Member 
States that have not yet done so to accept the Court’s 
compulsory jurisdiction.
The use of the Court as an organ for the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  should  not  be  understated. 
However, our group considers that the role of the Court 
as a tool in conflict prevention also needs to be further 
recognized  and  explored.  For  example,  there  may  be 
situations where there is a legal element at the heart of 
escalating tensions between States. Guidance from the 
Court  might  play  a  part  in  preventing  those  tensions 
from evolving into conflict.
We are aware that the Court’s caseload continues to 
be demanding. While the Court has dealt with a number 
of complex cases in the past year, it maintains one of its 
largest workloads for the year ahead. The willingness 
of  States  to  turn  to  the  Court  must  be  welcomed,  as 
it further highlights the important role that the Court 
plays  in  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  and  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes.
The year 2016 also marks the seventieth anniversary 
of  the  Court’s  inaugural  sitting.  We  congratulate  the 
Court  on  its  significant  anniversary.  The  Canada-
Australia-New  Zealand  group  of  countries  considers 
that the Court remains as relevant today as it has ever 
been.  As  the  number  of  international  rules  governing 
Member States’ interactions with one another increases, 
it  is  even  more  important  for  Member  States  to  have 
recourse  to  the  Court  as  an  effective  protection  to 
uphold the rule of law. Its role in providing transparent 
and impartial clarification on questions of international 
law for all Member States continues to be essential.
We look forward to continuing to support the Court 
in its contribution to the peaceful settlement of disputes.
Mr.  Hamsa  (Malaysia):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like 
to 
Mr.  Ronny  Abraham,  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  for  his  presentation  of  the  Court’s 
comprehensive report on its judicial activities over the 
past  year  (A/71/4).  We  join  others  in  expressing  our 
to  express  my  delegation’s  appreciation 
16-34541
11/25
A/71/PV.34 
27/10/2016
international 
heartfelt  congratulations  to  the  Court  in  conjunction 
with the seventieth anniversary of its inaugural sitting. 
As  the  principle  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations  in  adjudicating  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
disputes  between  States  and  in  providing  advisory 
opinions  on  questions  of 
the 
Court  plays  an  important  role  in  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security through its upholding 
of the rule of law. Since the Court’s creation, we have 
witnessed  a  steady  increase  in  the  number  of  cases 
referred  to  it,  which  show  a  varied  geographical 
distribution and cover a wide range of subjects. Those 
developments  are  further  testament  to  the  faith  and 
confidence that the international community has in the 
Court’s  ability  to  fairly  and  impartially  discharge  its 
adjudicative functions.
law, 
My  delegation  wishes  to  reiterate  that,  as  a 
peace-loving  nation,  Malaysia’s  foreign  policy 
is 
premised  on  the  principle  of  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes  and  the  concept  of  moderation.  Such  an 
approach  advocates  mediation,  arbitration,  dialogue 
and  negotiation.  When  dialogue  or  a  negotiated 
settlement  fails,  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
provides  the  avenue  for  Member  States  to  peacefully 
resolve  their  differences.  It  was  due  to  that  shared 
commitment  to  the  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes 
and  our  full  confidence  in  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  that  Malaysia  and  its  immediate  neighbours 
agreed to submit themselves to the jurisdiction of the 
Court in two cases regarding disputes over sovereignty 
over certain maritime features. Our confidence in the 
impartiality of the adjudication process is reflected by 
our fullest acceptance of, adherence to and respect for 
the decisions of the Court.
that 
Malaysia 
firmly  believes 
the  existence 
or  possession  of  nuclear  weapons  is  contrary  to 
international  law.  For  that  reason,  we  supported 
resolution 49/75 K of 15 December 1994, in which the 
Assembly  requested  the  Court  to  render  an  advisory 
opinion on the legality of the threat or use of nuclear 
weapons under international law. On 8 July 1996, the 
Court recognized for the first time in history that the 
threat or use of nuclear weapons is generally contrary 
to  the  principles  and  rules  of  international  law.  The 
Court further unanimously declared in its opinion,
to  nuclear  disarmament  in  all  its  aspects  under 
strict and effective international control.”
On  the  occasion  of  the  twentieth  anniversary  of 
that  advisory  opinion  in  2016,  let  us  all  once  again 
declare  our  collective  resolve  to  achieve  a  nuclear-
weapon-free  world for  the sake of our generation and 
succeeding  generations.  For  my  delegation’s  part,  we 
hope for greater support from the General Assembly in 
due course for the Malaysia-sponsored draft resolution 
entitled,  “Follow-up  to  the  advisory  opinion  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  on  the  legality  of  the 
threat  or  use  of  nuclear  weapons”  (A/C.1/71/L.42), 
which  we  have  had  the  honour  to  present  annually  in 
the  First  Committee  since  that  milestone  of  a  legal 
opinion was rendered by the Court in 1996.
In a related matter, my delegation is closely following 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  cases  Obligations 
concerning  Negotiations  relating  to  Cessation  of  the 
Nuclear  Arms  Race  and  to  Nuclear  Disarmament, 
which were filed by the Marshall Islands.
The  question  of  Palestine  remains  a  principal 
issue  on  the  United  Nations  agenda.  I  wish  to  recall 
the  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  of  9  July  2004  on  the  Legal  Consequences  of 
the Construction of a Wall in the Occupied Palestinian 
Territory, which found Israel’s continued occupation of 
the occupied Palestinian territory and its construction 
of  the  apartheid  wall  illegal  under  international  law. 
My delegation appeared before the Court to present our 
arguments  during  the  hearing  on  that  case.  However, 
12 years after that advisory opinion, we deeply regret 
the  continued  refusal  of  Israel  to  accept  the  Court’s 
conclusion. We urge Israel to fulfil its obligation under 
international law and to make reparation for all damage 
caused by the construction of the wall in the occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  in  and  around  East 
Jerusalem.
The Court is indispensable in a multilateral world 
that is firmly established in a rules-based framework, 
as  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
Malaysia reiterates its full support for the Court’s work, 
and  we  take  this  opportunity  to  commend  the  judges 
and  all  members  of  the  Court  for  their  unwavering 
commitment  and  sense  of  duty  in  upholding  the  law, 
with  a  view  to  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security.
“There exists an obligation to pursue in good 
faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading 
Mr.  Tiriticco  (Italy):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge 
12/25 
16-34541
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.34
Ronny Abraham, for his address today to the Assembly, 
which  appropriately  and  effectively  emphasized  a 
number of important points.
In  the  light  of  the  principles  enshrined  in  its 
Constitution, and in view of the constitutive treaties of 
the European Union, Italy considers that the option of 
judicial scrutiny of State activities is an indispensable 
element of any system that is based on the rule of law. 
At  the  international  level,  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes is an obligation for States. Clearly set out in 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  it  is  a  core  value 
of the international community, which decided to ban 
the use of force. In that connection, providing judicial 
settlement  through  the  Court,  the  principal  judicial 
organ of the United Nations, is key.
Resorting  to  a  judicial  mechanism  is  a  solid  and 
serious option for States that believe in an international 
community  based  on  the  rule  of  law.  For  that  reason, 
following  a  pledge  made  in  2012  at  the  high-level 
summit on the rule of law, Italy accepted the compulsory 
jurisdiction of the Court under Article 36 of the Statute, 
and we encourage others to do the same. I am therefore 
pleased to address the General Assembly for the first 
time  since  our  declaration  entered  into  force.  Italy 
confirms  the  fundamental  contribution  that  judicial 
review  brings  to  the  stability  of  the  international 
community, where the rule of law provides the guiding 
blueprint  in  terms  of  both  rights  and  obligations 
for  State  membership.  As  the  framework  of  the 
international community expands to include new actors 
and a progressively tightened network of relations, and 
as international law adjusts to new scenarios, we cannot 
fail to recognize the increasing call for the primacy of 
a number of principles that should constitute the pillars 
of peace in this new mutating world order.
to  human  dignity 
In  that  respect,  we  express  our  belief  that  the 
inalienable  right 
is  one  such 
fundamental principle that is emerging in international 
law. It draws its force not only by virtue of universality, 
but also from the recognition given by States, whether 
constitutionally  enshrined  or  through  consolidating 
domestic jurisprudence. From that perspective, we wish 
to convey our vision that the international law system 
should  ensure  its  own  effectiveness  through  a  fair 
and balanced approach among the different principles 
governing the international community today.
Court of Justice, for his dedication and leadership, as 
well  as  for  the  in-depth  and  comprehensive  report  of 
the work of the Court (A/71/4). I also express my deep 
appreciation of and support for the achievements of the 
Court during the reporting period.
This  year  marks  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  Court’s  inaugural  sitting.  Japan  commends  the 
Court for the important role it has played over the past 
70  years  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international 
disputes  and  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law.  As  the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations, the Court 
has delivered many important judgments and advisory 
opinions since its creation and has taken on a diverse 
range of cases that required complex legal examination. 
The Court is faced with an increasing demand for legal 
solutions  and  opinions  on  complex  legal  and  factual 
questions. We believe that, thanks to its devoted work 
and profound legal wisdom, the Court will continue to 
gain the respect and support of Member States.
The  achievements  of  the  Court  over  the  past 
seven  decades  clearly  demonstrate  that  its  work  has 
strengthened  the  rule  of  law.  The  rule  of  law  and  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes  are  a 
fundamental principle of Japan’s foreign policy, based 
on  our  conviction  that  they  provide  the  essential 
foundation of any society.
Japan  shares  the  view  expressed  by  President 
Abraham  at  the  seminar  held  in  April  in  The  Hague 
to  celebrate  the  anniversary  of  the  Court’s  seventieth 
session,  when  he  stated  that  the  political  and  legal 
environment in which the Court operated had changed 
considerably over the years since 1945. Japan admires 
the  Court’s  readiness  to  face  the  new  challenges  that 
may  arise  in  the  coming  decade,  which  was  also 
expressed in his speech.
At  the  same  time,  the  international  community 
today  benefits  not  only  from  the  Court’s  wisdom, 
but  also  from  the  remarkable  development  of  various 
peaceful  means  of  dispute  settlements  through  other 
organs, such as the International Tribunal for the Law 
of  the  Sea  and  the  Permanent  Court  of  Arbitration. 
The current trend whereby States have judicial options 
based on the specific legal issues involved is a welcome 
development towards an appropriate division of labour. 
We hope that the judgments of those organs collectively 
will further develop and clarify international law.
Mr. Bessho (Japan): I would like to begin by thanking 
Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  President  of  the  International 
Let  me  conclude  by  reaffirming  our  support  for 
the work of the International Court of Justice. We have 
16-34541
13/25
A/71/PV.34 
27/10/2016
confidence  in  its  professionalism  and  its  dedication 
to strengthening international law and the rule of law 
going forward.
Ms. Orosan (Romania): On behalf of my delegation, 
let me first express our thanks to the President of the 
International Court of Justice for his presentation of the 
annual report (A/71/4), which gives us a clear picture of 
the latest developments with regard to the cases on the 
Court’s docket.
The year 2016 has been an anniversary year for the 
Court, as the celebration of 70 years from its inaugural 
sitting  took  place  earlier  this  year.  We  applaud  this 
historic  moment  for  the  Court  and  congratulate  the 
President, as well as the other members of the Court, 
on  the  various  activities  that  were  organized  on  that 
occasion.  We  firmly  believe  that  the  rationale  of  the 
Court — to promote the rule of law where diplomatic or 
political actions have failed to work — is as valid now 
as it was at the time of its establishment. The strongest 
argument is the current activity of the Court. The broad 
geographical distribution of cases, the wide variety of 
subject matter dealt with and the increasing number of 
States that have decided to place their confidence in the 
Court  bear  testimony  to  the  fact  that  the  Court  has  a 
role to play in today’s world.
the  rule  of 
Promoting  and  reinforcing 
law, 
especially at a time when new challenges to the rule of 
law at the international level are witnessed, is of great 
importance.  From  this  perspective,  we  regret  that  the 
Court’s  budget  has  been  reduced  by  comparison  with 
previous years. We hope that the financial situation of 
the Court will improve in the next period and that the 
efficiency  measures  already  undertaken  by  the  Court 
will have a positive impact.
Romania  is  committed  to  the  settlement  of  all 
disputes  by  peaceful  means  and  is  a  strong  supporter 
of the Court as guarantor of the supremacy of law. The 
acceptance  by  Romania  in  2015  of  the  compulsory 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  confirms  the  full  trust 
that  Romania  places  in  the  Court  and  its  efforts  to 
consolidate the rule of law at the international level, as 
well as the resolve of my country to solve any dispute 
exclusively by peaceful means and in accordance with 
international law.
I wish to conclude by reiterating our conviction that 
in its future activity the Court will continue to uphold 
its standards of high professionalism and impartiality, 
and by expressing our hope that new States will accept 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court.
Mr.  Troncoso  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At  the 
outset, my delegation would like to state that we have 
followed with special attention and interest the work of 
the International Court of Justice in the period covered 
in  its  report  (A/71/4),  presented  by  its  President, 
Mr. Ronny Abraham.
The  report  indicates  that  during  that  period 
the  Court  carried  out  intense  work.  As  noted  in  the 
report, the issues brought before the Court are varied 
in  nature  and  include  such  topics  as  the  immunities 
of States and State authorities, the law of the sea, the 
determination  and  delimitation  of  maritime  zones, 
international  waterways,  current  international  legal 
disputes, the exercise of powers and rights in maritime 
areas, measures taken on property belonging to foreign 
States,  sources  of  international  obligations  and  their 
validity  over  time,  reparations,  and  the  interpretation 
and application of international treaties, among others.
According to the provisions of its Statute, the Court 
exercises jurisdiction in respect to the cases submitted 
to it, in terms expressly recognized by the States and 
in  the  framework  of  the  principle  of  jurisdiction  of  a 
voluntary  nature.  In  exercising  that  jurisdiction,  the 
Court  must  apply  international  law  as  stipulated  in 
Article  38  of  the  Statute,  which  accords  to  treaties, 
among the sources of international law, the same status 
as  the  expression  of  the  will  of  States,  constituting  a 
basic pillar in the structure of international relations.
As  we  have  remarked  on  many  occasions,  among 
the  central  principles  that  guide  the  foreign  policy  of 
Chile  is  the  principle  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international disputes. Along with that, another central 
principle  of  Chile’s  external  actions  is  the  essential 
role of respect for international treaties, which are an 
expression  of  the  consent  governed  by  international 
law.  Their  strict  observance  and  stability  over  time 
constitute  prerequisites  for  the  existence  of  peaceful 
relations between nations.
My country is currently a party in two cases which 
have  been  brought  before  the  International  Court  of 
Justice and which require particular attention. We are 
participating  in  these  cases  reaffirm  our  commitment 
to  international  law  and  peaceful  relations  between 
States.  Chile  has  is  fully  confident  in  the  application 
of  international  law  in  relations  with  other  States. 
This  commitment  requires  everyone  to  respect  the 
14/25 
16-34541
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.34
fundamental  principles  of  coexistence  and  to  refrain 
from  engaging  in  conduct  that  impedes  the  normal 
development  of  these  relations  and  undermines  them 
to  everyone’s  detriment.  This  conduct  is  particularly 
relevant  in  situations  in  which  a  specific  case  under 
consideration by the International Court of Justice.
Moreover, it should be recalled that, once a matter 
is  referred  to  the  Court,  the  Court  is  the  only  body 
competent to consider it. Therefore, it is unacceptable 
that a matter which is already under consideration by 
the Court should simultaneously be taken up in other 
bodies or forums of a political nature.
Consistent  with 
the  role  and  competence  of 
the  Court  and  the  diverse  range  of  its  mission,  my 
delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to  express  its  full 
support  for  the  Court’s  requirements  in  terms  of 
providing the necessary budgetary resources so that it 
can efficiently discharge the lofty responsibilities that 
have been vested in it. That is especially necessary at 
times when its jurisdictional activities are intense and 
it needs specialized staff and investment in technology. 
We  also  support  the  Court’s  approach,  as  outlined  in 
its  President’s  report  to  the  Assembly,  with  regard  to 
the  dialogue  that  should  exist  between  the  Court  and 
the  Assembly.  That  dialogue  is  indispensable  for  the 
Assembly  to  be  able  to  adopt  the  most  appropriate 
decisions on the budget of the principal judicial organ 
of the United Nations.
Mr.  Sharma  (India):  At  the  outset,  1  would  like 
to  thank  Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  for  his  comprehensive 
report  on  the  judicial  activities  of  the  Court  for  the 
period from August 2015 to July 2016. 1 also thank him 
and Vice-President Judge Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf for 
guiding the work of the Court.
The  Court,  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the 
United  Nations,  celebrated  its  seventieth  anniversary 
on 20 April at The Hague. As we all know and as most 
of us witnessed, on Monday, 24 October, the Secretary-
General and the President of the Court inaugurated the 
United Nations exhibition organized by the International 
Court of Justice, entitled “70 years in Service of Peace 
and Justice.”
The  Court  is  entrusted  with  the  task  of  the 
peaceful resolution of disputes between States, which 
is fundamental for the fulfilment of one of the purposes 
of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. Since its first session 
in April 1946, the Court has been seized of more than 
160 cases. It has delivered over 120 judgements and 27 
advisory opinions. We acknowledge that the Court has 
fulfilled  most  admirably  the  task  of  settling  disputes 
between  States  peacefully,  and  it  has  acquired  the 
well-deserved  reputation  of  being  an  institution  that 
maintains  the  highest  legal  standards,  in  accordance 
with  its  mandate  under  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and in accordance with its own Statute, which 
is an integral part of the Charter.
One of the primary goals of the United Nations, as 
stated  in  the  Preamble  to  the  Charter,  is  to  establish 
conditions  under  which 
justice  and  respect  for 
international  obligations  can  be  maintained.  The 
International  Court  of  Justice,  as  the  only  court  with 
general  international  law  jurisdiction,  is  uniquely 
placed to help achieve that goal.
The report of the Court illustrates the importance 
that States attach to the Court and the confidence that 
they place in it. The importance of the Court is evident 
from  the  number,  nature  and  variety  of  cases  it  deals 
with and, in so doing, its ability to deal with the complex 
aspects  of  public  international  law.  Furthermore,  the 
universality of the Court is evident from the fact that 
States  from  all  continents  have  submitted  cases  to  it 
for adjudication.
The 
judgments  delivered  by 
the  Court  have 
played  an  important  role  in  the  interpretation  and 
clarification  of  the  rules  of  international  law,  as  well 
as in the progressive development and codification of 
international  law.  In  the  performance  of  its  judicial 
functions,  the  Court  has  remained  highly  sensitive 
to  the  political  realities  and  sentiments  of  States, 
while  acting  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Charter,  its  own  Statute  and  other  applicable  rules  of 
international law.
During  the  judicial  year  2015-2016,  the  Court 
delivered a judgment in two cases between Nicaragua 
and Costa Rica, on 16 December 2015. That was a rare 
instance of the Court’s joining two disputes submitted 
by  neighbouring  States  against  each  other.  They  are 
cases  involving  complex  factual  and  legal  issues 
concerning  navigational  rights,  territorial  sovereignty 
and  environmental  impact  assessment,  among  others. 
The number of contentious cases on the Court’s docket 
stands  at  14,  three  of  which  were  disposed  of  by  the 
Court on 5 October. During the past judicial year, the 
Court handed down 11 orders and held public hearings 
16-34541
15/25
A/71/PV.34 
27/10/2016
in five cases, including a case brought against my own 
country, India.
information  for  States  wishing  to  submit  a  potential 
dispute to the Court.
international 
The  cases  before  the  Court  involve  a  variety 
of  subject  matters,  such  as  territorial  and  maritime 
disputes,  unlawful  use  of  force,  interference  in  the 
domestic  affairs  of  States,  violation  of  territorial 
integrity, 
and 
human  rights,  genocide,  environmental  damage  and 
conservation of living resources, immunities of States 
and 
interpretation  and 
application  of  international  conventions  and  treaties. 
Moreover, the cases entrusted to the Court are growing 
in factual and legal complexity.
their  representatives,  and 
humanitarian 
law 
The Court’s second function is to provide advisory 
opinions on legal questions referred to it by the organs 
of 
the  United  Nations  and  specialized  agencies. 
Although no request for an advisory opinion was made 
during the past judicial year, that function of the Court 
adds to its important role of clarifying key international 
legal issues. The report of the Court rightly points out 
that “everything the Court does is aimed at promoting 
and reinforcing the rule of law” (A/71/4, para. 21), in 
particular through its judgments and advisory opinions.
Before  concluding  my  statement,  I  would  like  to 
make  a  few  preliminary  remarks  on  the  three  cases 
disposed  of  by  the  Court  on  5  October.  These  were 
public-interest  litigation  cases.  We  appreciate  the 
Court’s finding that no legal dispute existed between the 
parties at the time of submission of the application by 
the litigant State. However, despite some apprehensions 
over the possibility of relitigation, India feels that the 
cases were dismissed on substance and not merely on 
procedural  lacunae.  Apart  from  the  awareness  test, 
the  Court  made  an  objective  determination  on  the 
examination of facts of the case and demonstrated that 
there were no opposing views and, therefore, no dispute 
between the parties. Furthermore, we note that it was 
one of the rare occasions of a contentious case in which 
the President of the Court exercised his casting vote.
to 
As 
the  publications  and  availability  of 
information  concerning  the  Court  and  its  activities, 
we appreciate the Court’s efforts to ensure the greatest 
possible  global  awareness  of  its  decisions  through  its 
publications, multimedia offerings and website, which 
now features the Court’s entire jurisprudence, as well 
as  that  of  its  predecessor,  the  Permanent  Court  of 
International  Justice.  Those  sources  provide  useful 
We are happy to note that the issue of the presence 
of asbestos in the Peace Palace has been, by and large, 
resolved.  We  share  the  concern  of  the  President  of 
the Court with regard to budget cuts and the fact that 
the  communication  and  concerns  raised  by  the  Court 
remain  unresolved  and  unanswered  to  date.  We  hope 
that those concerns will be addressed.
Finally, India wishes to reaffirm its strong support 
for the Court and to acknowledge the importance that 
the international community attaches to the work of the 
Court.
Mr.  Mohamed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We 
align  ourselves  with  the  statements  delivered  earlier 
at  this  meeting  by  the  representative  of  South  Africa 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States  and  by  the 
representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement.
We have taken note of the report of the Secretary-
General on the work of the International Court of Justice 
(А/71/339).  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Court  for  having  presented  his  report  on  the  Court’s 
judicial  activity  from  1  August  2015  to  31  July  2016 
(А/71/4).  My  delegation  greatly  appreciates  the  work 
undertaken by the Court, as the principal judicial organ 
of the United Nations, namely, its delivery of judgments 
and advisory opinions and the contribution it makes to 
the peaceful settlement of disputes. That essential work 
requires greater political support from Member States. 
In addition, the Court requires the necessary budgetary 
funding to ensure that its activity is not constrained.
the  annual  report 
The  submission  of 
is  an 
opportunity  for  the  General  Assembly  to  confirm  the 
Court’s role and jurisdiction. The number of cases that 
Member  States  bring  before  the  Court  demonstrates 
the  importance  that  they  attach  to  the  Court  and  its 
capacity  to  resolve  disputes  in  an  impartial  and  fair 
manner.  On  behalf  of  the  Sudan,  we  urge  the  Court 
to  continue  the  work  being  carried  out  to  strengthen 
its ability to assume its increased responsibilities and 
workload so that it can swiftly and effectively resolve 
the cases before it. We call for the necessary resources 
to be made available to it.
  My  delegation  also  calls  on  States  that  have  not 
yet  done  so  to  quickly  ratify  the  Statute  of  the  Court 
with  a  view  to  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
16/25 
16-34541
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.34
international  level  and  to  ensuring  that  the  Court  is 
able to discharge its responsibilities under the Statute 
with regard to the peaceful settlement of disputes. The 
Sudan  has  recognized  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  We 
invite  the  Security  Council,  which  has  not  requested 
an  advisory  opinion  from  the  Court  since  1970,  to 
make  greater  use  of  this  body,  which  is  the  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  source 
of  the  main  advisory  opinions  with  regard  to  the 
interpretation  of  the  principles  of  international  law 
related to the Organization’s work. We also invite the 
Assembly, as a principal organ of the United Nations, to 
continuously request advisory opinions with regard to 
the interpretation of the principles of international law 
related to its functions.
We greatly appreciate the role played by the Court, 
and  we  express  our  full  support  to  the  Court  so  that 
it  can  carry  out  its  responsibilities  mandated  under 
its Statute.
Ms.  Biden  Owens  (United  States  of  America): 
We  thank  President  Abraham  for  his  thorough  report 
today.  President  Abraham’s  report  reminds  us  that 
international  justice  is  alive  and  well.  We  welcome 
the  fact  that  States  are  increasingly  resorting  to  the 
International Court of Justice and to other international 
judicial bodies to resolve their bilateral disputes where 
both  parties  to  that  dispute  have  accepted  the  body’s 
jurisdiction. Rather than seeing what some often decry 
as  a  fragmentation  of  international  dispute  resolution 
mechanisms,  we  see  a  healthy  array,  or,  as  one  judge 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  has  called  it,  “a 
kaleidoscope of complementary judicial venues”, so that 
States may choose which forum best suits their needs.
Resort 
to  an  appropriate  dispute 
resolution 
mechanism is a means to pursue the peaceful resolution 
of disputes and an embrace of Article 33 of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  which,  as  we  will  recall, 
provides that:
“The  parties  to  any  dispute,  the  continuance 
of which is likely to endanger the maintenance of 
international peace and security, shall, first of all, 
seek a solution by negotiation, enquiry, mediation, 
conciliation, arbitration, judicial settlement, resort 
to  regional  agencies  or  arrangements,  or  other 
peaceful means of their own choice.”
The  drafters  of  the  Charter  had  the  wisdom  to  make 
the International Court of Justice one of the principal 
organs  of  the  United  Nations,  putting  the  peaceful 
resolution of disputes at the heart of the United Nations.
  In  April,  we  welcomed  the  opportunity  to 
celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  Court’s 
inaugural  setting  at  the  Peace  Palace.  It  gave  us  and 
others a unique opportunity to reflect on the important 
role  the  Court  has  played  over  the  past  70  years.  We 
echo President Abraham’s message that the need for a 
world court working for international peace and justice 
is as strong today as it was when the Charter was first 
signed,  and  we  applaud  the  Court  for  its  readiness  to 
take on the many new and difficult challenges brought 
before it.
The United States is grateful to President Abraham 
and  his  fellow  judges  and  to  all  the  staff  of  the 
International Court of Justice for the hard work they do 
to foster international justice.
Mr. Reinisch (Austria): The delegation of Austria 
wishes  to  express  its  thanks  to  the  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  Mr.  Ronny  Abraham, 
for the comprehensive report on the work of the Court 
(А/71/4). Austria also wants to take this opportunity to 
congratulate  the  Court  on  its  seventieth  anniversary, 
celebrated on 20 April in The Hague.
The report impressively demonstrates the growing 
caseload  of  the  Court  over  the  past  two  decades.  The 
Court currently deals with a variety of disputes ranging 
from  core  issues  of  sovereignty  —  like  territorial  or 
maritime disputes, the use of force and non-intervention, 
and the immunity of States and their representatives —
to  disputes  relating  to  genocide  and  to  the  protection 
of  the  environment,  as  well  as  to  treaty  application 
and  interpretation.  That  development  aptly  shows 
the  increasing  general  acceptance  of  the  Court  as  the 
central forum for the peaceful settlement of disputes.
In  that  context,  the  Austrian  delegation  wants 
to  emphasize  the  importance  of  the  possibility  of 
accepting  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court 
under  Article  36,  paragraph  2,  of  the  Court’s  Statute. 
As of now, only 72 of the 193 States Members of the 
United  Nations  have  made  a  declaration  recognizing 
the Court’s jurisdiction in that way. Austria did so in 
1971, a commitment automatically renewed ever since. 
Unfortunately, however, many States still do not accept 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court. Austria calls 
upon  those  States  to  reassess  their  positions  and  to 
seriously consider accepting its jurisdiction.
16-34541
17/25
A/71/PV.34 
27/10/2016
Beyond solving specific disputes, the Court greatly 
contributes  to  the  strengthening  and  clarification  of 
international  law.  As  the  principal  judicial  organ  of 
the United Nations, the International Court of Justice 
is nowadays at the centre of a system of international 
courts  and  tribunals  and  other  dispute  settlement 
bodies.  In  that  context,  the  issue  of  fragmentation 
of  international  law  and  international  jurisprudence 
has  been  raised,  including  in  the  International  Law 
Commission. To avoid such fragmentation and possible 
discrepancies in the interpretation of international law, 
it  is  essential  that  international  courts  and  tribunals 
take  each  other’s  decisions  into  account  and  that  the 
judges  of  those  courts  and  tribunals  establish  direct 
contacts. Therefore, we welcome the judicial dialogue 
which  is  currently  being  developed  between  those 
international  courts  and  tribunals,  and  we  support 
its  further  enhancement.  To  that  end,  it  would  be 
particularly useful if the presentation of the work of the 
International  Criminal  Court  took  place  on  the  same 
day as this debate.
As  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  Court  upholds  and  promotes  the  rule  of 
law. Austria is strongly committed to strengthening the 
rule of law and believes that a rules-based international 
system, with clear and predictable rules, is an essential 
precondition  for  lasting  peace,  security,  economic 
development  and  social  progress.  We  call  upon  all 
Member  States  to  actively  promote  an  international 
order  based  on  the  rule  of  law  and  international  law, 
with  the  United  Nations  at  its  core.  Building  on  the 
final  report  and  recommendations  from  the  Austrian 
Initiative,  2004-2008,  regarding  the  United  Nations 
Security Council and the rule of law, presented in 2008, 
my delegation has been continuously working to foster 
the rule of law in all United Nations organs and in the 
international community at large and is proud to serve 
as the coordinator of the Group of Friends of the Rule 
of Law.
As regards judicial activities during the reporting 
period, the Austrian delegation has noted that the Court 
dealt with a number of very important issues that also 
relate  to  the  topics  discussed  over  the  past  few  days 
in  the  Sixth  Committee  in  connection  with  the  work 
of  the  International  Law  Commission.  The  Court  is 
currently dealing with the immunities of State officials 
in criminal proceedings and with a number of disputes 
involving  environmental  concerns.  Among  the  latter, 
the  judgment  of  the  Court,  rendered  on  16  December 
2015  in  the  joined  cases  between  Costa  Rica  and 
Nicaragua, is particularly noteworthy. In that judgment, 
the  Court,  basing  itself  on  the  judgment  in  Pulp 
Mills  on  the  River  Uruguay  (Argentina  v.  Uruguay), 
reaffirmed  an  obligation  under  general  international 
law  to  carry  out  an  environmental  impact  assessment 
concerning  activities  that  risk  causing  significant 
transboundary harm.
Austria also wants to draw attention to the special 
importance of the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons 
and  nuclear  disarmament,  which  has  recently  been 
considered  again  by  the  Court.  In  the  past,  the  Court 
made  important  contributions  to  this  field  with  its 
advisory  opinion  on  Legality  of  the  Threat  or  Use  of 
Nuclear Weapons. Recently, however, the applications 
filed by the Marshall Islands against India, Pakistan and 
the  United  Kingdom  were  dismissed  on  jurisdictional 
grounds, by a narrow vote. The great interest that those 
cases  attracted  within  the  international  community, 
together with the deliberations currently ongoing in the 
Assembly’s  Disarmament  and  International  Security 
Committee (First Committee), demonstrates the crucial 
importance  of  that  topic  for  many  States.  Austria, 
as  a  non-nuclear  country,  takes  this  opportunity  to 
restate  its  commitment  to,  and  the  importance  of, 
the  non-proliferation  and  disarmament  processes 
and expresses its hope that those processes will yield 
concrete results in the near future.
Ms.  Galvão  Teles  (Portugal)  (spoke  in  French): 
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  express  my  delegation’s 
gratitude to the President of the International Court of 
Justice, Judge Ronny Abraham, for his detailed annual 
report on the work of the Court.
On the occasion of its seventieth anniversary, the 
fundamental  role  of  the  Court  in  the  international 
legal  order  must  be  recalled  and  stressed,  as  it  is  the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations and, in 
that capacity, performs one the most important tasks in 
the international community — the peaceful settlement 
of disputes among States and the strengthening of the 
international rule of law.
As  the  report  for  the  judicial  year  2015-2016 
(A/71/4)  indicates,  the  Court’s  workload  is  constantly 
increasing.  For  example,  in  July  2016  the  number  of 
cases pending before the Court stood at 14, and three 
new contentious cases had recently been submitted to 
it.  During  the  period  in  question,  the  Court  delivered 
18/25 
16-34541
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.34
5 judgments and 11 orders and held public hearings in 
5 cases.
(spoke in English)
We  note  with  satisfaction  the  growing  activity  of 
the Court. More and more States trust the Court with 
the settlement of their complex and sensitive disputes. 
It is important to note that the cases before the Court 
come from all over the world and relate to diverse areas 
of international law, such as the law of the sea, the use 
of  force,  sovereignty,  immunities  and  international 
humanitarian 
the 
universality of the Court, but also the expansion of the 
scope of its work and its growing specialization. Such 
universality  and  growth  dramatically  strengthen  the 
Court’s contribution to the development of international 
law and should therefore earn for it the full support of 
all members of the international community.
law,  demonstrating  not  only 
Although,  as  the  truly  universal  court  in  the 
exercise  of  general  jurisdiction,  the  International 
Court of Justice is a leading player in the international 
judicial arena, it should be recalled that there are other 
international  courts  and  tribunals  whose  existence 
and  importance  should  also  be  underlined.  In  that 
regard, Portugal welcomes the continued contacts and 
cooperation  among  international  courts  and  tribunals 
as  a  very  positive  development.  It  is  our  strong  view 
that  all  of  them  must  work  together  towards  the 
enhancement of the international legal order and must 
complement one another in the furtherance of this goal.
As at 31 July, 193 States were parties to the Statute 
of  the  Court  and  72  of  them  had  deposited  with  the 
Secretary-General  a  declaration  of  acceptance  of 
the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction,  in  accordance 
with  Article  36,  paragraph  2,  of  the  Court’s  Statute. 
Moreover,  more  than  300  bilateral  or  multilateral 
treaties provide for the Court to have jurisdiction in the 
settlement  of  disputes  arising  out  of  their  application 
or interpretation. That highlights the role of the Court 
as  the  main  judicial  body  in  the  interpretation  and 
application of international law.
In  that  context,  Portugal,  as  a  State  that  has 
accepted  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court 
since its admission to the United Nations in 1955 and 
has been a party to proceedings before it, would like to 
recall the recommendation of the 2005 World Summit 
that States that have not yet done so, consider accepting 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court,  in  accordance  with  its 
Statute. It would also be desirable, in our view, that, in 
multilateral or bilateral agreements, more consideration 
should  be  given  to  accepting  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court, including on an optional basis.
To  conclude,  we  would  like  to  state  that,  while 
recognizing  that  in  contemporary  international  law 
there is an intrinsic but unavoidable paradox between 
the  obligation  of  States  to  settle  their  disputes  in  a 
peaceful manner and the paramount need for sovereign 
consent to put into practice such settlement mechanisms, 
it  is  our  firm  conviction  that  the  International  Court 
of Justice plays a crucial role in the international legal 
order and that that role will be increasingly accepted by 
the entire international community.
Mr.  Koch  (Germany):  The  International  Court 
of Justice is the principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations. It is the only court with its legal basis in the 
very Charter of the United Nations, and, thanks to the 
Charter, its membership is truly universal. That gives 
the Court enormous prestige and weight, which it can 
use to play its important role in the peaceful settlement 
of conflicts in accordance with the rules of international 
law.  Germany  has  always  supported  the  Court,  and 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  our 
support once again today.
I want to highlight two specific issues of particular 
importance. 
if 
its 
First, the Court can be an effective means for the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the  furtherance 
of  international  law  as  the  defining  framework  of 
international  relations  only 
judgments  are 
implemented. Compliance by the parties to a case with 
the  judgment  of  the  Court,  as  required  by  Article  94 
of the Charter, is therefore of obvious and paramount 
importance.  Refusal  or  failure  to  comply  with  a 
judgment  not  only  frustrates  the  Court’s  efforts  to 
bring  to  a  conclusion  the  dispute  in  question,  it  also 
undermines  respect  for  the  Court,  and  therefore  its 
overall efficiency as an instrument for settling disputes, 
far beyond any single case. It should also be noted that it 
is for the Court to decide whether the conditions for its 
jurisdiction are met. Once the Court has decided that it 
has jurisdiction, the parties should accept its decision. 
Both of those points, incidentally, apply to other courts, 
tribunals and arbitral tribunals as well.
Secondly, the Court’s jurisdiction, like that of other 
international  tribunals  and  arbitral  tribunals,  is  based 
on the consent of the States concerned. That is a well-
established principle in international law. Consent may 
16-34541
19/25
A/71/PV.34 
27/10/2016
be granted ad hoc with regard to a specific dispute or 
it  may  be  declared  in  advance,  in  a  general  way,  as 
provided for in Article 36, paragraph 2, of the Statute 
of  the  Court.  Germany  has  made  a  declaration  under 
Article  36,  paragraph  2,  and  we  call  upon  others  to 
consider a similar step.
The  obverse  of  the  aforementioned  principle, 
however,  is  that  there  can  be  no  dispute  settlement 
by the Court without the consent of the parties to the 
dispute. That does not mean that what is essentially a 
dispute  between  two  States  should  be  turned  into  an 
abstract legal question on which the Court is then asked 
to give an advisory opinion. Such a development would 
also  put  the  Court  in  a  difficult  position.  Rather,  the 
advisory opinion procedure is meant for cases where a 
legal issue as such is of widespread interest to many or 
all States.
The  International  Court  of  Justice  is  the  most 
prominent instrument for settling disputes on the basis 
of  law.  States  should  cherish  it  for  that  reason,  and, 
what is more, they should make proper use of it to settle 
their disputes more often.
Mr.  Meza-Cuadra  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Peru welcomes the report of the International Court of 
Justice  on  its  work  during  the  period  from  1  August 
2015  to  31  July  2016  (A/71/4)  and  thanks  the  Court’s 
President, Judge Ronny Abraham, for introducing it.
My  delegation  would  like  to  begin  its  statement 
by  underscoring  the  fundamental  role  played  by  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  principal  judicial 
organ of the United Nations, in the system of peaceful 
settlement of disputes established in the Charter of the 
United  Nations.  Its  work  is  an  essential  contribution 
to the promotion of the rule of law at the international 
level.  We  recall  that,  in  addition  to  that  valuable 
function, in accordance with Article 96 of the Charter, 
the Court’s advisory opinion may be requested by the 
General  Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and  other 
organs and specialized agencies of the United Nations 
system. Those are the two areas of responsibility of the 
Court. Through its judgments and opinions, it helps to 
promote and clarify international law as a true pathway 
to  peace.  Accordingly,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
point out that the Assembly has once again urged States 
that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  consider  the  possibility 
of recognizing the Court’s jurisdiction, in accordance 
with Article 36, paragraph 2, of its Statute.
My  delegation  would  like  to  acknowledge  the 
work  carried  out  by  the  eminent  judges  of  the  Court, 
in particular the President and Vice-President, and by 
the ad hoc judges. By the same token, we would like to 
put  on  record  our  gratitude  for  the  considerable  work 
carried out by the Registry of the Court, in particular 
by  the  Registrar  and  the  Deputy  Registrar.  In  that 
context,  we  call  on  the  Assembly  to  continue  to  give 
careful consideration to the needs of the Court.
The sustained level of activity of the Court is the 
expression  of  the  prestige  enjoyed  by  that  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  That  prestige  is 
also reflected in the diverse geographical distribution 
of  the  cases  brought  before  it,  which  reaffirms  the 
universal character of its jurisdiction. It was thanks to 
the Court that the maritime boundary dispute between 
Peru and Chile was resolved peacefully and pursuant to 
international law. The high level of activity of the Court 
can  be  partly  explained  by  the  numerous  measures 
adopted  in  recent  years  to  improve  its  efficiency  and 
to  allow  it  to  handle  its  ever-increasing  workload, 
including  the  expedited  processing  of  the  growing 
number of incidental proceedings.
Additionally, Peru welcomes the various activities 
in April in The Hague, particularly the solemn sitting 
on  20  April  held  to  commemorate  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  inaugural  sitting  of  the  Court.  We 
note with satisfaction that the photographic exhibition 
organized  for  that  occasion  at  the  Peace  Palace  was 
recently  brought  to  United  Nations  Headquarters  in 
New York
We once again thank the host country, the Kingdom 
of the Netherlands, for its ongoing commitment to and 
support  for  the  work  of  the  Court.  We  reiterate  our 
belief that there should be greater cooperation between 
the Court and the other principal organs of the United 
Nations,  in  New  York.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation 
encourages  the  good  relations  between  the  Court  and 
the Security Council to continue.
I  would  like  to  end  my  statement  by  expressing 
our gratitude once again to the Court for its continuous 
contribution  to  international  peace  and  justice  and  to 
the effective implementation of the principle of pacific 
settlement of disputes between States.
Ms. Pino Rivero (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): Cuba 
aligns itself with the statement delivered earlier by the 
representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement. 
20/25 
16-34541
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.34
The Republic of Cuba welcomes the presentation of 
the report of the International Court of Justice (A/71/4). 
We also wish to express our commitment to the strict 
application  of  international  law  and  the  peaceful 
settlement of international disputes.
Cuba  recognizes  the  work  of  the  Court  since  its 
inception.  Its  decisions  and  advisory  opinions have 
been vital, not only for the cases brought before it, but 
also  for  the  development  of  public  international  law. 
The volume of cases referred to it, many of them from 
the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  region,  show  the 
importance the international community attaches to the 
peaceful settlement of disputes.
The Republic of Cuba greatly values the peaceful 
settlement of disputes under Article 33, paragraph 1, of 
the Charter of the United Nations. It regrets that certain of 
the Court’s rulings have not been implemented, in open 
violation of Article 94 of the Charter, which establishes 
that each Member of the United Nations undertakes to 
comply with the decision of the International Court of 
Justice in any case to which it is a party. That situation 
reflects the need to reform the United Nations system 
to give developing countries greater guarantees in their 
dealings with powerful countries.
Cuba believes that it would be useful for the Court 
to  take  stock  of  its  relationship  with  United  Nations 
bodies, particularly the Security Council.
The Court has heard many significant cases. Cuba 
attaches  great  importance  to  the  advisory  opinion, 
issued  unanimously  on  8  July  1996,  on  Legality  of 
the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons. In it the Court 
concluded  that  there  exists  an  obligation  to  pursue 
in  good  faith  and  bring  to  a  conclusion  negotiations 
leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under 
strict and effective international control. In that regard, 
and as has been expressed in this Hall, Cuba urges full 
compliance  with  the  advisory  opinion  of  9  July  2004 
on Legal Consequences of the Construction of a Wall 
in the Occupied Palestinian Territory,  and  calls  upon 
all States to respect and ensure respect for the Court’s 
stipulations in that important matter.
to 
importance 
Cuba  also  attaches  great 
the 
allocation of the necessary budgetary resources for the 
Court  so  that  it  can  adequately  carry  out  its  work  of 
peacefully resolving the disputes under its jurisdiction, 
and  urges  that  the  necessary  resources  be  found  so 
that they reach the Court in an appropriate and timely 
manner. 
The  Republic  of  Cuba  thanks  the  Court  for  the 
publications it has made available to the Governments 
parties to the Statute and for its online resources. They 
are valuable material for the dissemination and study of 
fundamental  public  international  law,  particularly  for 
developing countries, some of which have no access to 
information regarding advances in international law.
Cuba has been a peace-loving country, respectful 
of international law..It has always faithfully complied 
with  its  international  obligations  deriving  from  the 
treaties to which it is party. Accordingly, Cuba would 
like to take this opportunity to reiterate its commitment 
to peace. 
in 
The  events 
recent  years  are  a 
reliable 
demonstration  of  the  importance  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  as  an  organ  with  international 
jurisdiction  that,  peacefully,  in  good  faith  and  in 
accordance with international law, settles the disputes 
of great impact on the international community.
Mr. Argüello (Nicaragua) (spoke in Spanish): On 
more  than  one  occasion,  the  General  Assembly  has 
seen that the adjudication of legal disputes, particularly 
the  referral  of  cases  to  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, should not be regarded as an unfriendly action 
among  Staates.  Yet,  after  70  years  of  work  by  the 
Court — which we are celebrating this year — only 72 
States have recognized the compulsory jurisdiction of 
the principal judicial organ of this Organization. 
From  the  time  that  the  League  of  Nations  was 
established,  there  has  been  an  understanding  about 
the imperative need for an international legal body to 
promote  and  contribute  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes — hence the birth of the Permanent Court of 
International Justice. The United Nations validated that 
understanding by establishing the present International 
Court of Justice.
Over  the  past  seven  decades,  the  Court  has  been 
a cornerstone in the development of international law 
and,  to  some  extent,  in  the  strengthening  of  friendly 
relations among States, as it has applied international 
law to resolve numerous disputes that otherwise might 
have  become  threats  to  international  peace.  It  has 
also  provided  important  support  to  the  work  of  the 
General  Assembly  through  its  advisory  opinions  on 
topics of vital importance to the Organization, and in 
doing so has bolstered respect for the rule of law at the 
international level.
16-34541
21/25
A/71/PV.34 
27/10/2016
The report before us reflects the trust that Member 
States have in this principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations,  as  is  confirmed  by  the  growing  number  of 
cases. The heavy workload merits additional resources, 
not  fewer.  We  should  recall  that  the  cases  brought 
before  the  Court  concern,  for  the  most  part,  sensitive 
topics  or  issues  with  major  legal,  political  or  social 
implications for Member States and their populations, 
and  sometimes  for  multiple  States  within  a  region. 
And because of the complexity of the issues, complex 
technical  advice  is  often  needed.  Therefore,  making 
available  adequate  human  and  technical  resources 
enhances  the  effectiveness  and  independence  of  the 
Court. Its work is unique even though there has been 
a proliferation of international courts with budgets far 
greater than that of the International Court of Justice.
For  that  reason,  we  find  it  particularly  disturbing 
that the Court, with the enormous amount of work that 
it does and given its very sensitive and crucial mission, 
is  to  have  its  budget  cut  by  10  per  cent  compared  to 
the last biennium, as indicated in paragraph 33 of the 
Court’s report (A/71/4). It would therefore appear that 
this  institution,  which  is  a  fundamental  pillar  of  the 
United  Nations,  has  been  treated  like  the  Cinderella 
of  the  house.  In  past  years,  the  International  Law 
Commission  has  also  suffered  a  budget  cut  and  the 
stipend for its members was reduced to $1, and now the 
budget of the principal organ of international justice is 
also being reduced. We must not allow that to happen. 
In  the  case  of  Nicaragua,  a  small  developing 
country, access to the International Court of Justice has 
been crucial in safeguarding our national interests. We 
have had recourse to the Court on several occasions. In 
2015 alone, Nicaragua was involved in oral arguments 
for  four  different  cases,  and  in  two  of  those  cases 
judgments  on  the  merits  were  handed  down.  In  the 
other  two,  Colombia’s  preliminary  objections  to  the 
Court’s  jurisdiction  were  rejected.  As  a  State  party 
in  different  cases,  Nicaragua  knows  at  first  hand  the 
financial  challenges  that  on  occasion  obligate  the 
Court to recover the costs of certain proceedings. That 
causes difficulties for less wealthy countries and for the 
general working of the institution.
Countries  that  have  been  party  to  international 
litigation  know  the  enormous  costs  thereof,  but  we 
want our rights to use peaceful settlement mechanisms 
to be respected, and Nicaragua will spare no expense 
to that end. International law should be defended at all 
costs. And the Court does so with low expenditures and 
excellent administration. In this regard, we recall that 
there is a trust fund to assist States in settling disputes 
through  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  This  is 
an  important  mechanism  for  facilitating  access  for 
developing countries. States are therefore encouraged to 
consider making contributions to the fund, particularly 
on  the  occasion  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
Court.
To  conclude,  Nicaragua  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  reaffirm  that  in  all  cases  it  has  been 
involved  in  we  have  faithfully  complied  with  our 
international  obligations,  and  we  expect  reciprocity 
from other parties in terms of abiding by the rulings of 
the International Court of Justice in cases to which they 
are parties. We would like to recall that “the existence 
of a dispute shall [not] permit the use of force or threat 
of  force  by  any  of  the  States  parties  to  the  dispute” 
(resolution 37/10, annex, sect. I, para. 13). 
Once again, we thank the Court for its report and 
note that although much remains to be done to ensure 
respect for justice and international law, the experience 
acquired during 70 years of the work of this international 
tribunal  has  brought  us  valuable  opportunities  to 
achieve  peace,  a  fundamental  purpose  of  the  United 
Nations and an ongoing desire of humankind.
Mr. Bailen (Philippines): We align ourselves with 
the  statement  delivered  earlier  by  the  representative 
of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement.
The  very  first  purpose  of  the  United  Nations  is 
to  maintain  international  peace  and  security.  Article 
1,  paragraph  1  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
obligates us
“to bring about by peaceful means, and in conformity 
with the principles of justice and international law, 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes 
or  situations  which  might  lead  to  a  breach  of  the 
peace”.
To  maintain  international  peace  and  security,  all 
Member States are duty-bound to settle their disputes by 
peaceful means, including through judicial settlement 
and  in  conformity  with  the  principles  of  justice  and 
international law. As the principal judicial organ of the 
United Nations, the International Court of Justice plays 
a central role in the peaceful settlement of disputes as 
the condition sine qua non for maintaining international 
peace and security.
22/25 
16-34541
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.34
That  point  was  recognized  no  less  by  the  Manila 
Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement of International 
Disputes,  which  the  General  Assembly  adopted  in 
1982 (resolution 37/10, annex). The Manila Declaration 
is  the  first  comprehensive  plan  and  consolidation  of 
the  legal  framework  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international disputes, building upon the Charter of the 
United Nations, in particular its Article 33, and general 
international  law.  It  may  be  no  coincidence  that  the 
caseload of the Court doubled in the era ushered in by 
the Manila Declaration. 
Four  years  ago,  the  Assembly  also  affirmed  the 
Court’s  essential  contribution  to  the  rule  of  law  in 
paragraph 31 of its landmark Declaration on the rule of 
law at the national and international levels.
This year, the Philippines joins the commemoration 
of  the  Court’s  seventieth  anniversary.  On  this  happy 
occasion, we extend our warm greetings to the entire 
team at The Hague, led by President Ronny Abraham, 
whom  we  also  thank  for  his  comprehensive  report  on 
the work of the Court in the past year.
In  the  period  under  review,  the  Court  was  seized 
of  14  cases,  ranging  from  territorial  and  maritime 
disputes  and  violations  of  territorial  integrity  and 
sovereignty  to  the  unlawful  use  of  force,  interference 
in  domestic  affairs,  international  humanitarian  and 
human  rights  law,  to  environmental  damage  and  the 
conservation  of 
increasing 
confidence shown by Member States, especially among 
developing  countries,  in  the  capabilities,  credibility 
and  impartiality  of  the  Court  to  settle  disputes  by 
peaceful means, is not unrelated to the norms, values 
and aspirations articulated by the Manila Declaration, 
the most fundamental of which is not to use, or threaten 
to use, force.
living  resources.  The 
The contemporary international legal architecture 
has  strengthened  the  Court  as  the  only  forum  for 
resolving  justiciable  disputes  between  States  with 
respect to the vast field of general international law. It 
is the only international court of a universal character 
with general jurisdiction, which is why we renew our 
call  for  Member  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to 
accept  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  It  is 
also why we reiterate our call on the Security Council 
to more seriously consider Article 96 of the Charter of 
the United Nations, and make greater use of the Court 
as a source of advisory opinions and of interpretation 
of relevant norms of international law, particularly on 
the  most  current  and  controversial  issues  affecting 
international peace and security.
Finally, 
the  General  Assembly,  as  a  matter 
of  courtesy  and  due  process  and  in  the  interest  of 
transparency and fairness in the efficient administration 
of  justice,  should  always  consult  with  the  Court  with 
respect  to  its  budget.  The  Court  should  always  have 
the  opportunity  to  make  its  views  and  specific  needs 
known in the budget process.
The Philippines believes that only through the rule 
of law in international relations can we guarantee the 
respect, order and stability that we the peoples of the 
United Nations are striving to achieve.
Mr. Alday González (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
Mexico  wishes  to  express  its  appreciation  to  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  for  the  activities  it  has 
undertaken  this  year,  and  is  grateful  to  its  President, 
Judge Ronny Abraham, for the valuable report he has 
presented (A/71/4).
We  extend  our  congratulations  to  the  Court  on 
its seventieth anniversary. In its work as the principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations, the International 
Court of Justice has handled more than 130 contentious 
cases.  Through  its  rulings  it  has  helped  prevent  and 
put an end to specific disputes and conflicts that have 
threatened the maintenance of international peace and 
security.
Today  we  face  the  emergence  of  a  broad  range 
of  controversies,  from  climate  justice  to  the  new 
modalities  and  actors  of  armed  conflicts,  which 
challenge  international  law  and  the  political  organs 
of  the  United  Nations  itself.  The  effectiveness  of  the 
Court is therefore more necessary than ever if peaceful 
solutions are to be found.
In its Declaration on the rule of law at the national 
and international levels, in 2012, the General Assembly 
recognized that the International Court of Justice plays 
a major role in contributing to and promoting the rule 
of law at the international level. This goes hand in hand 
with the implementation of Goal 16 of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, which specifically seeks 
to strengthen a genuine rule of law as a prerequisite for 
accountability, justice and peace.
We  welcome  the  fact  that  during  the  reporting 
period,  another  State  deposited  its  declaration  of 
acceptance of the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court, 
making  a  total  of  72  States  that  have  accepted  its 
16-34541
23/25
A/71/PV.34 
27/10/2016
jurisdiction.  We  call  on  States  that  have  not  yet  done 
so to recognize the binding jurisdiction of the Court so 
that the operative and preventive capacity of this organ 
can be extended and strengthened.
However,  we  note  with  some  concern  certain 
actions  taken  by  some  States  that  put  restrictions  on 
this  organ,  by,  for  example,  formulating  reservations 
on the exercise of jurisdiction of the Court, denouncing 
treaties that establish jurisdictional clauses in favour of 
the Court, or opposing the inclusion of articles for the 
peaceful settlement of disputes referred to the Court in 
the negotiation processes of new international treaties.
We wish to stress that compliance with the judgments 
of the Court, including those related to the granting of 
provisional measures, is essential for reducing political 
tensions among States. If left unaddressed, these issues 
can escalate into international conflicts.
We are pleased to note that, according to the report, 
States  from  all  regions  of  the  world  have  resorted  to 
the Court. The delegation of Mexico would particularly 
like to highlight that, of the 11 cases pending, 6 involve 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean.  This  has  in  fact 
become  a  trend  in  recent  years  and  demonstrates  the 
commitment of our region to international law and the 
principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes set out 
in Article 33 of the Charter of the United Nations.
The  ruling  of  the  Court  during  the  reporting 
period  represents  an  important  contribution  to  the 
interpretation  of  international  law,  reaffirming  the 
scope  of  the  obligation  contained  in  international 
environmental law in order to assess the environmental 
impact  of  activities  that  may  result  in  transboundary 
damages as well as the importance of the precautionary 
principle in the matter. The ruling also contributes to 
reaffirming the navigation rights of States.
The Court also had three cases under review in this 
period which, thanks simply to their presentation, served 
to highlight the effect of customary obligation of States 
to negotiate effective measures for the cessation of the 
nuclear arms race, nuclear disarmament and the adoption 
of a treaty on general and complete disarmament.
Mexico  welcomes  the  work  done  to  strengthen 
publicity  and  transparency  of  the  work  of  the  Court, 
taking advantage of new technologies. These contribute 
to the dissemination of international law and also serve 
as tools for States, academia and society in general.
We reiterate the important fact that, as part of these 
efforts, we should soon have access to all judgments of 
the Court in all official languages   of the United Nations. 
Mexico wishes to reiterate the importance of endowing 
the  Court  with  sufficient  funds  to  fulfil  its  mandate 
effectively,  especially  as  there  has  been  a  steady 
increase in the number of cases that are submitted to it.
Finally, we call for the continued modernization of 
the International Court of Justice so that it may continue 
to be useful and relevant in the current global context, 
as it has indeed been for the past 70 years.
Ms.  Metelko-Zgombić  (Croatia):  Croatia  thanks 
the  President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  for  his  report  on  the  work  of 
the Court over the past year.
In the reporting period, the Court deliberated on a 
significant  number  of  cases  raised  before  it  by  States 
on a wide array of topics and issues. Croatia continues 
to follow the work of the International Court of Justice 
and all its activities with careful and engaged interest.
Croatia  remains  an  unequivocal  advocate  of  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  between  States  and 
the  avoidance  of  conflict,  based  on  the  premise  of 
adherence  to  the  rule  of  international  law.  In  this 
vein,  we  recall  that  the  rule  of  international  law  and 
respect for its norms include the requirement to respect 
treaties in force in good faith, as breaches of treaties, 
and  especially  of  their  essential  provisions,  prevent 
the fulfilment of their object and purpose and thereby 
erode the rule of law and international relations.
The principal judicial organ of the United Nations 
is  pivotal  in  ensuring  that  the  rule  of  law  on  the 
international level is strengthened and secured. Its role 
in  this  regard  is  essential,  as  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  serves  as  a  signpost  for  other  international 
tribunals and third-party settlement mechanisms -- in 
other words, for international adjudication in general.
International  adjudication  in  general  must  be 
developed  in  accordance  with  the  highest  legal  and 
moral standards. The confidence of States that disputes 
will  be  decided  upon  competently,  independently 
and  impartially  as  well  as  within  the  realm  of 
international  law  is  of  paramount  importance  for  the 
willingness of States to turn to judicial settlement for 
the resolution of their disputes and their choice of the 
legal framework over any other. In that connection, the 
lack of independence and impartiality in international 
24/25 
16-34541
27/10/2016 
A/71/PV.34
the  very  pillars  of 
adjudication  undermines 
the 
international judicial architecture, strips it of its hard-
fought authority and threatens our perennial efforts to 
develop and secure it, while at the same time propelling 
States into unending disputes and diminishing the trust 
of States in third-party settlement mechanisms.
As 
jurisprudence  within 
applicable 
international 
the 
framework  of 
law  must  be  stable  and 
predictable,  so  also  must  its  procedures  and  the  ways 
of  accessing  it.  Croatia’s  unwavering  commitment  to 
international law and its proper application goes hand 
in hand with its support for the International Court of 
Justice in its efforts in this regard.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
16-34541
25/25
